-- Violin Plans IPO With Losses Mounting as HP Business Dips
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-09-16T20:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/violin-plans-ipo-with-losses-mounting-as-hp-business-dips.html
Violin Memory Inc. (VMEM) , a maker of
high-speed storage systems, is seeking to raise as much as $180
million an initial public offering even as its quarterly losses
exceed revenue and the company struggles to recover from the
departure of its biggest reseller.  Violin plans to sell 18 million shares for $8 to $10
apiece, the  Santa Clara , California-based company said in a
regulatory filing today. The market debut is scheduled for later
this month.  Growth has slowed at Violin since  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  opted
to start selling its own storage product last year. Hewlett-Packard, the world’s second-biggest personal-computer maker,
accounted for 65 percent of the storage company’s revenue in
fiscal 2012 and now represents less than 10 percent, Violin said
in the filing. At the same time,  EMC Corp. (EMC) ,  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL)  have bolstered their
competitive offerings through acquisitions.  “They’re competing in a really cutthroat sector,” said
Brenon Daly, an analyst at 451 Research LLC in San Francisco.
“They’re bringing an offering that is way out on the risk
curve, and it’s being priced accordingly.”  At the top end of its projected price range, Violin would
be valued at $818.2 million. That’s just above the company’s
$800 million valuation after a private financing in April 2012
and less than half the $2 billion that was being discussed when
it confidentially filed for an IPO last year, two people with
knowledge of the company said in October.  A representative for Violin declined to comment.  Losing Money  Violin’s net loss for the most recent quarter widened to
$30.6 million, compared with the $26.5 million the company
generated in revenue. Sales and marketing costs climbed 40
percent from a year earlier to $18.6 million.  Founded in 2005, Violin has been led for the past four
years by Don Basile, who was previously chief executive officer
at  Fusion-io Inc. (FIO)  He shifted Violin’s focus to flash arrays,
which provide faster and more efficient storage than hard
drives. The company has about 250 customers and 450 employees.  Hewlett-Packard ended its deal to resell Violin’s storage,
telling Bloomberg in October it favored its own 3Par devices. In
2013, Violin’s largest customers included Computer Security
Solutions Inc. and  Avnet Inc. (AVT) , which both resell the products to
other clients.  “We expect that sales of our products to a limited number
of customers will continue to account for a majority of our
revenue for the foreseeable future,” the filing said.  Cost Savings  While flash storage is more expensive than hard-disk
drives, keeping many customers from making the switch, it also
uses less energy and is faster to access than traditional data
storage. Violin and other flash-storage companies have to more
effectively promote the long-term cost savings of the technology
to encourage businesses to pay more up front, according to Jim Handy, an analyst at Objective Analysis in  Los Gatos ,
 California .  “They need to tout other features of the product that
allow total data-center costs to come down,” Handy said.
Competing on price with older technologies is “destructive for
anyone in the flash business,” he said.  Violin’s gross profit margin, or the revenue left after
subtracting the cost of goods sold, narrowed to 42 percent in
the quarter ended July, from 46 percent a year earlier. EMC,
which sells complete storage-management systems, reported a
second-quarter  gross margin  of 63 percent, three percentage
points higher than data-storage provider NetApp Inc. in its most
recent quarter. Fusion-io, which sells flash storage to Facebook
Inc. and Apple Inc., recorded a 58 percent margin.  Margin Improvements  Violin forecasts that its gross margin will reach 58
percent to 62 percent over the long term by selling new products
with greater capacity and more profitable software, according to
the company’s online  presentation  to promote the offering.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America
Corp. are leading Violin Memory’s offering. The company plans to
list on the  New York  Stock Exchange under the symbol VMEM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  