-- Volkswagen Plans to Lift Stake in Chinese Joint Venture With FAW
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-09-16T09:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/volkswagen-plans-to-lift-stake-in-chinese-joint-venture-with-faw.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s largest
carmaker, is in talks to increase its stake in a joint venture
with  FAW CAR Co. (000800)  as part of a strategy to expand in  China .  VW plans to lift its stake to 50 percent from the current
40 percent, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said in an
interview published on Sunday in Frankfurter Allgemeine
Sonntagszeitung. Eric Felber, a spokesman for Wolfsburg,
Germany-based VW, confirmed Winterkorn’s comments.  The company operates a second Chinese joint venture with
 SAIC Motor Corp. (600104)  Growth in China has helped Volkswagen offset
weaker deliveries of mainstream vehicles in Europe, where
industrywide demand is sliding to a 20-year low.  China is crucial to VW’s goal of leapfrogging General
Motors Co. and Toyota Motor Corp. to become the world’s No. 1
automaker by 2018. China, VW’s top sales region, accounted for
31 percent of the German automaker’s 9.21 million deliveries
last year.  Backed by its growing luxury-car brands Audi and Porsche,
VW targets full-year operating profit on last year’s level, even
after earnings in the first six months of 2013 declined 12
percent. The company predicts revenue will rise this year,
driven by higher auto sales.  CEO Successor  Winterkorn told FAZ am Sonntag he wants to remain CEO “at
least” until his contract expires in 2016.  Winterkorn last week dismissed concerns that a recent
departure of executives leaves the company without viable
candidates to succeed him as CEO.  “There are enough young people up and coming,”
Winterkorn, 66, said at a Volkswagen event on Sept. 9 in
Frankfurt. The succession issue is “of course” being addressed
internally, he said.  Karl-Thomas Neumann, head of the China operations; Audi
development chief Wolfgang Duerheimer; and Audi sales chief
 Peter Schwarzenbauer  have all left within the last year.  Winterkorn is seen as the probable successor to Chairman
 Ferdinand Piech , 76, when he eventually decides to retire. The
two are close confidantes and the masterminds behind VW’s global
expansion and financial success in recent years.  VW denied a Sept. 6 report in German newspaper Handelsblatt
saying Piech would resign within the next months because of
health issues. The company said in a statement that Winterkorn
and Piech will continue to serve in their current jobs “for a
long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  