-- Wal-Mart Sells Coors About at Cost to Be Largest Beer Seller
-- B y   M i n s i   C h u n g   a n d   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-09-16T21:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/wal-mart-sells-coors-almost-at-cost-to-be-largest-beer-seller.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is so
committed to becoming America’s biggest beer retailer that it
has been selling Budweiser, Coors and other brews almost at cost
in at least some stores.  The markup on a 36-pack of Coors Light cans at a Los-Angeles-area store was 0.6 percent, compared with 16.2 percent
for a package of Flaming Hot Cheetos, according to internal
documents reviewed by Bloomberg. Companies typically don’t
release information about markups so the March data provide a
rare glimpse of Wal-Mart’s alcohol pricing strategy.  Wal-Mart’s push into beer is part of a plan to double
alcohol sales by 2016 and seize a larger slice of a U.S. beer
market worth about $45 billion. While founder Sam Walton frowned
on drinking to excess, selling cheap suds is a way to lure
shoppers who typically buy other products at the same time.
Repeat visits are crucial for the world’s largest retailer,
which last month cut its profit forecast and reported second-quarter profit and sales that missed analysts’ estimates.  “We continue to look for opportunities to invest in
price,” Wal-Mart U.S. chief Bill Simon said at a Goldman Sachs
conference last week. “A great example for us is adult
beverages. We have been continuing to move prices lower on that
and seeing returns in the form of market-share gains in that
category.”  Tecate Cans  The markups on 36-packs of Tecate cans and 24-packs of
Corona Extra bottles at the Los-Angeles-area store, were 0.6
percent and 1 percent, respectively. By contrast, Wal-Mart sold
Coca-Cola 20-ounce bottles for 29.9 percent above cost,
according to the data. Cereals such as Quaker Quick Oats and
Honey Nut Cheerios were marked up 32.5 percent and 16.6 percent,
respectively.  Deisha Barnett, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said pricing is
determined market by market and declined to say whether the
markups were nationally representative.  “This is nothing new that we’re investing in price in
adult beverage,” she said in a telephone interview. “Grocers
have long invested in this to drive traffic.”  Wal-Mart’s gross margin, the percentage of sales left after
the cost of goods sold, was 24.7 percent for the quarter ending
July 31. Target’s gross margin in the quarter ended Aug. 3 was
31.4 percent.  A year ago, Chief Merchandising Officer Duncan MacNaughton
told 500 alcohol industry representatives attending an “adult
beverage summit” at Wal-Mart’s Bentonville,  Arkansas ,
headquarters that the company would discount alcohol as part of
its strategy to gain share in the category. Wal-Mart has since
discounted a range of mainstream and craft beers, doubled the
number of alcohol buyers to 12 and cleared more shelf space to
promote alcoholic beverages.  Wal-Mart has risen 9.6 percent this year, compared with a
19 percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The
shares advanced 0.6 percent to $74.78 at the close in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Minsi Chung in New York at 
 mchung82@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  