-- Watson Pushes Australia to 298 in Final One-Day Cricket Match
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-09-16T17:46:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/watson-pushes-australia-to-298-in-final-one-day-cricket-match.html
Shane Watson  scored 143 to help
Australia reach 298 in the deciding one-day cricket match
against England.  Captain  Michael Clarke  won the toss and decided to bat in
the fifth 50-over game, the last meeting between the game’s
oldest rivals before the Ashes series gets underway in Brisbane
on Nov. 21. England needs 299, which would be a record chase for
the  Rose Bowl  in Southampton.  Clarke and Watson combined for 163 runs to take the
visitors to 211-3 with 18 overs remaining, but Clarke was caught
on 75 and Australia collapsed to lose their tenth wicket with
five balls to spare.  While Chris Jordan, making his international debut, was
smashed for two fours by Aaron Finch in his first over, he got
 Phil Hughes  to top-edge a shot to Michael Carberry at midwicket
for two.  After play resumed following a 30-minute rain delay, Ben
Stokes struck twice in the first two deliveries to reduce
Australia to 48-3. Finch went for 26, caught by England captain
Eoin Morgan, while the next batsman,  Matthew Wade , gloved his
only ball to wicketkeeper Jos Buttler.  Watson Boundaries  After Clarke’s dismissal, the run rate slowed until Watson
battered Joe Root for three sixes and two fours in one over
before finally losing his wicket, edging Ben Stokes to Buttler.
Watson’s 143, scored off only 107 deliveries, was his eighth
century in one-day internationals. Five of Australia’s last six
batsman, including Fawad Ahmed who was unbeaten on four, were
out for less than 10 runs.  Australia made two changes to the team that lost to England
on Sept. 14 in Cardiff. Opener Hughes came in for the injured
Shaun Marsh and leg-spinner Ahmed replaced Nathan Coulter-Nile.
England added Jordan for the injured  Steven Finn  and all-rounder
 Luke Wright  replaced Jonathan Trott who suffered a back spasm
just before the toss.  England and Australia have a victory apiece in the one-day
series. Two matches were abandoned because of rain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  