-- Westfield Sells 7 U.S. Malls to Starwood for $1.6 Billion
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-09-16T17:19:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/westfield-sells-seven-u-s-malls-to-starwood-for-1-6-billion.html
Westfield Group (WDC)  agreed to sell
seven malls in the U.S. for $1.6 billion to an affiliate of
Starwood Capital Group LLC, as the company consolidates its U.S.
portfolio to fund higher-return activities.  Westfield is selling malls to redeploy capital into planned
development projects, the Sydney-based shopping-center owner
said in a statement to the Australian stock exchange. It will
retain a 10 percent interest in the shopping centers, which will
be managed by Starwood.  Westfield, founded by billionaire Frank Lowy, is exiting
properties in the U.S with lower productivity and fewer
redevelopment opportunities, mostly in the Midwest and north-west, to reinvest in higher-return assets and projects both in
the country and overseas. It divested seven U.S. malls in April
2012 to Starwood for $1 billion and sold half stakes in six
Florida malls to O’Connor Capital Partners for about $700
million in March, while maintaining management rights.  “Westfield have well flagged their intention to
concentrate their U.S. portfolio,” Louise Mylott,  executive
director  for specialist sales, and Lou Pirenc, REIT analyst, at
Morgan Stanley, wrote in an e-mailed note. With this
transaction, Westfield “has exited all of its Midwest assets
outside the Chicago area and all non-core West-Coast assets.”  Sales Boost  Westfield will own and operate 40 malls in the U.S.
following the sale, and average annual specialty sales at its
malls there will increase by 3.8 percent to $513 per square foot
following the disposal, it said today.  Slowing sales among retailers and rising borrowing costs
are sparking concern that U.S. mall landlords could be hurt too.
Growth in mall-tenant sales for U.S. mall real estate investment
trusts, which rose 4.3 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, peaked in the three months through June 2012 and has
slowed each quarter since, according to Bloomberg Industries.  Westfield has started work on the retail part of the World
Trade Center in  New York , in which it invested $612.5 million in
a joint venture with the  Port Authority  of New York and  New
Jersey  in July 2011. It is also undertaking $240 million of
redevelopments at Garden State Plaza in New Jersey and
Montgomery in  Maryland , it said in August.  Westfield  shares  closed 1.1 percent higher at A$10.96 in
Sydney, extending gains this year to 3.8 percent. That compares
with a 13 percent increase in the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51) 
this year.  Development Projects  The malls Westfield is selling include three properties in
 Ohio , two in  California  and one each in Indiana and Washington
state, it said. The deal is in line with the assets’ book value
as of June 30, and $120 million below their Dec. 31 value, the
company said.  “They’re remixing the remaining portfolio based on their
views about where the best value is going forward,” said
Winston Sammut, Sydney-based managing director of Maxim Asset
Management. “This is part and parcel of their strategy, not a
change in strategy or outcome.”  Retail sales in the U.S. rose 0.2 percent in August from
the previous month, less than forecast and the smallest gain in
four months, the Commerce Department said Sept. 13. Higher
payroll taxes, limited job opportunities and restrained income
growth are moderating consumers’ interest in shopping.  Westfield reported  comparable net operating income growth 
of 4.3 percent in the U.S. in the six months to June 30,
compared with 1.8 percent in  Australia  and  New Zealand , and 0.2
percent in the U.K. The company had debt of A$13.1 billion
($12.2 billion) as of June 30, representing 36 percent of total
assets, it said in its earnings statement.  More Developments  Perceptions of Westfield’s credit risk have improved, with
the cost of protecting the company’s debt against non-payment
dropping relative to other Australian companies. Credit-default
swaps on the mall owner have fallen 51 basis points to 106 over
the past year. The CDS were 9 points below the benchmark Markit
iTraxx Australia index at the end of last week, having traded at
a 22 basis point spread above the average a year earlier.
Westfield is the fifth best performer in the 25-member gauge
over the past 12 months.  Australia’s biggest  publicly traded property trust  has
focused on boosting developments and fund management income
since it spun off the domestically focused, more conservative
 Westfield Retail Trust (WRT)  in 2010. The change in strategy followed
 Frank Lowy ’s decision to hand day-to-day control of the company
he founded in 1959 to his sons Peter and Steven Lowy.  Frank Lowy emigrated to Australia in 1952 after fleeing the
Nazis in  Hungary  and fighting as a commando in  Palestine . He
built up Westfield into the world’s biggest shopping-center
operator by assets with properties in Australia, New Zealand,
the U.S. and U.K. The company has since expanded into Italy and
Brazil.  Redeploying Capital  Westfield is moving forward on A$2.8 billion worth of
higher-return development projects in cities including  London ,
New York and  Los Angeles , the company said at its first-half
results announcement last month. It also has a further A$12
billion of projects planned, including a mall in Milan that it
is developing in partnership with Italian firm Gruppo Stilo.  “Today’s announcement continues the implementation of our
strategic plan which positions Westfield to generate greater
 shareholder value ,” Westfield’s Co-Chief Executive Officer
 Peter Lowy  said in the statement. “We are focused on
redeploying our capital into superior retail destinations in
major cities through divesting non-core assets and introducing
joint venture partners.”  At Westfield London, Westfield is proceeding with an
expansion after receiving approval for more than 500,000 square
feet (46,452 square meters) of additional space and 1,500
apartments, it said last month.  Operations Funds  While the sale to Starwood, the investment firm led by
 Barry Sternlicht , will dilute annualized funds from operations
by 4.5 cents a share, this will be mitigated when it reinvests
the funds and by its share buyback program, it said.  The sale won’t affect forecast funds from operations of
66.5 cents a share for the year ending Dec. 31, Westfield said.
The deal is expected to close by the end of 2013, it said.  “For this to be the source of capital as they expand into
mega-centers is a whole lot more refreshing than coming to
investors asking for more money,” said Stuart Cartledge,
managing director of Melbourne-based Phoenix Portfolios. “It
would be interesting to see for how long they have to maintain
their 10 percent stake, because clearly they’re not a long-term
holder of passive stakes in assets they don’t even manage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  