-- Wharton School to Create Call-In Business Channel for Sirius XM
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-09-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/wharton-school-to-create-call-in-business-channel-for-sirius-xm.html
The  University of Pennsylvania ’s
Wharton School, the world’s  oldest collegiate business school ,
will be featured on a new  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI)  channel, letting
listeners get business lessons directly from professors.  Sirius will train Wharton faculty, such as finance
professor  Jeremy Siegel  and sports-business expert Kenneth Shropshire, to host shows on the channel, the satellite
broadcaster said today in a statement. Many of the live
programs, which will cover everything from equity markets to
retailing, will include call-in segments from listeners.  Sirius is modeling the station on its medical channel
“Doctor Radio,” which uses physicians from NYU Langone Medical
Center as hosts, said Scott Greenstein, president and chief
content officer of the New York-based company. The goal is to
connect listeners who lack a formal business education with
academics who can explain concepts clearly, he said.  The move will create the first full-time radio station
focused on business management and furthers efforts to use
digital technologies to expand the role of elite universities.
EdX, a nonprofit online learning network, announced plans last
week to team up with Google Inc. to create a new Web educational
platform. That venture is working with schools such as Harvard,
Stanford and the  University of California  at Berkeley.  Underserved Market?  The Wharton channel will be targeted at anyone from a
first-time job seeker to a chief executive officer, Sirius said.  “We think the market for business knowledge is
underserved,” Greenstein said in an e-mail. “We are launching
at a time when there are more entrepreneurs than ever. They are
hungry for key advice from seasoned experts.”  The station will debut in early 2014 on channel 111, as
well as through the Sirius XM Internet radio application.
Sirius, which has more than 25 million subscribers, approached
Philadelphia-based Wharton with the idea earlier this year.
 Patrick Reilly , a spokesman for the company, declined to discuss
financial compensation for the hosts.  “It was the only school we approached,” said Greenstein,
citing Wharton’s “extensive academic and alumni network, which
we feel will be an incredibly valuable resource for expert guest
appearances on the channel.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  