-- Wing Hang Bank Surges by Record on Sale Talks: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-09-17T08:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/wing-hang-bank-says-shareholders-are-in-talks-for-stake-sale.html
Wing Hang Bank Ltd. (302)  surged by a
record in Hong Kong trading, leading shares in the city’s
family-owned lenders higher after becoming the second one to say
its shareholders are in talks to sell their stake.  The stock jumped 39 percent, the biggest gain since it
started trading in 1993, to close at HK$116.80. Owners including
members of Chairman Patrick Fung’s family and related trusts are
holding preliminary talks for a sale that would trigger a
mandatory buyout offer, the bank said in a filing to Hong Kong’s
stock exchange yesterday.  Wing Hang joins  Chong Hing Bank Ltd. (1111)  in acquisition talks
as Hong Kong’s role as an international  yuan  center attracts
Chinese financial institutions that are seeking to expand
abroad. The number of publicly traded family-run banks in Hong
Kong has fallen to four from six more than a decade ago, after
the industry drew buyers including China Merchants Bank Co.  “As long as buyers see Hong Kong as a regional hub with a
promising future because of the yuan business and integration
with China, they will be interested in Hong Kong banks,”
 Dominic Chan , an analyst at BNP Paribas SA, said by phone today.
“Wing Hang is a well-run bank, with a strong geographic
presence in Hong Kong, Macau and the mainland.”  No definitive terms have been set in the talks, according
to yesterday’s statement. The family, its affiliates and BNY
International Financing Corp. together hold about 45 percent of
the shares, which would require a buyout bid, the bank said in
the statement.  Family History  Today’s gain added about HK$10 billion ($1.3 billion) to
Wing Hang’s market value, bringing it to about HK$36 billion.
Earlier Hong Kong bank acquisitions have been valued at an
average 1.9 times book value, which would give a price of HK$126
a share, or $5 billion, for Wing Hang, UBS AG analyst Stephen Andrews wrote in a note.  Founded in 1937 as a moneychanger in Guangzhou by Patrick
Fung’s father, Fung Yiu-king, Wing Hang was re-established in
 Hong Kong  after World War II and granted a banking license in
1960,  according to its website .  The lender earned 58 percent of last year’s pretax profit
from retail operations, including credit cards, mortgages and
personal loans,  data compiled by Bloomberg  show. Corporate
banking, including trade finance and loans to small and medium-sized companies, accounted for another 15 percent.  Chong Hing, Hong Kong’s smallest family-run lender, climbed
3.3 percent to HK$32.75, closing at the highest level since its
market debut 19 years ago. That added to a 10 percent gain
yesterday after the Oriental Daily newspaper reported that the
sale of a stake may be decided this week.  Rivals Climb  Hong Kong’s other family-run banks also rose.  Dah Sing
Banking Group Ltd. (2356)  jumped 18 percent, the biggest gain since its
shares started trading in 2004.  Bank of East Asia Ltd. , the
largest family-controlled lender, advanced 5.7 percent to
HK$33.55, the highest close since June 2011, valuing it at about
HK$77 billion. The banks aren’t aware of any reasons for the
increase and have nothing to announce, they said in separate
statements to the stock exchange.  “Wing Hang is more attractive than Chong Hing and Dah Sing
because of its track record in return on equity” and its market
share in deposits, Grace Wu, an analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets
Hong Kong Ltd., said by phone today. “Wing Hang also has a more
balanced geographic presence in Hong Kong, Macau and the
mainland.”  Wing Hang had 43 outlets in Hong Kong, 15 in mainland China
and 12 in Macau at the end of June, compared with Chong Hing’s
51 in its home market and one each in the other territories,
according to the banks’ websites.  China Life Insurance Co. (2628)  may bid for Wing Hang, the
Oriental Daily newspaper reported today, citing market sources
that it didn’t identify. Two phone calls to the board
secretary’s office at the insurer went unanswered.  Yuan Business  “The small and medium-sized banks of Hong Kong will need
to get a mainland partner so that they can tap the growth
opportunities in the cross-border yuan businesses,” Wu said.  Chong Hing said in a statement yesterday it’s still in
discussions with interested parties including Yue Xiu Group, and
the timing of any transaction is uncertain. Yue Xiu is the
trading arm of the Guangzhou city government.  Dah Sing doesn’t rule out participating in an acquisition
as either a buyer or a target, Chief Executive Officer Harold Wong said last month.  China  Merchants paid $4.7 billion for the Wu family’s Wing
Lung Bank Ltd. in a deal completed in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  