-- Twitter Outshines Facebook With Earlier Focus on Mobile
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-09-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/twitter-outshines-facebook-with-earlier-focus-on-mobile.html
Twitter Inc., the microblogging
service that plans an initial public offering, is outpacing its
bigger competitors  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in a crucial
growth area: mobile advertising.  Ads on smartphones and tablets will make up more than half
of Twitter’s ad revenue this year, according to EMarketer Inc.
That puts it ahead of  Facebook , which generated 41 percent of
its ad revenue from mobile promotions in the latest quarter.
Google, the largest search engine, is estimated to get slightly
less than one quarter of its revenue this year from mobile ads,
EMarketer said.  While Twitter makes up just a tiny slice of the $16.7
billion projected mobile-ad market this year, it has the
advantage of concentrating on mobile from an earlier stage and
from a smaller base. That may help assuage investor concerns
going into the company’s IPO, as mobile has been an area that
has bedeviled other Internet companies. Facebook and Google,
which initially focused on online ads for personal computers,
have more recently had to reshape their massive ad businesses as
users spend more time on the Web via smartphones and tablets.  “Mobile is clearly for Twitter the critical piece,” said
Justin Merickel, senior director of advertising solutions at
 Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , which has a business that helps clients
advertise online. “You’ve seen them really take, I think, a
forward view into how to work with advertisers in that arena.
We’re excited about both the growth and the potential that we’ve
seen in that business.”  Confidential Filing  Twitter announced last week that it had submitted paperwork
to go public, without giving details of the time frame or
financials of the offering. The company filed confidentially
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission through a
process that will keep its S-1 prospectus under wraps until
shortly before a road show to market to investors.  The San Francisco-based company, which was founded in 2006
and boasts more than 200 million users, began building its
mobile-ad business last year. It accelerated the push just last
week, with its planned purchase of mobile-ad startup MoPub for
about $350 million in stock, its biggest-ever acquisition. MoPub
specializes in helping companies quickly match publishers with
ads on mobile devices.  Facebook’s Transition  That Twitter has already built up a mobile-ad business may
put it on firmer investor footing than when Facebook went public
in May 2012 in the biggest technology IPO. While the world’s
biggest social-networking service initially drew investor
demand, its stock slipped below its $38 IPO  price  on the second
day of trading and didn’t reach that level again until this
July.  Investors were concerned Facebook would struggle to profit
from its growing base of mobile users. The  Menlo Park ,
California-based company hadn’t begun a drive into mobile ads
until just a few months before its market debut.  Now mobile ads, which made up 30 percent of Facebook’s
revenue in the first quarter, will soon account for more than
half of advertising dollars, Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said on a July conference call.  Brandon McCormick, a spokesman for Facebook, declined to
comment.  Google’s Transition  Google, meanwhile, has risen to become the second-most
valuable U.S. technology company, thanks largely to its leading
position in search-based advertising on PCs. Yet the  Mountain
View , California-based company is still adjusting to mobile ads
because promotions on the devices are seen by some as less
effective, and therefore don’t command as high a price as ads on
desktops and laptops.  During the  second quarter , Google’s average cost per click,
a measure of advertising rates, fell 6 percent. The average
smartphone-based search ad costs 40 percent less than a
comparable promotion on a desktop computer, according to
digital-marketing agency Covario Inc.  Aaron Stein, a spokesman for Google, declined to comment.  In contrast, Twitter’s roots are in mobile. Its 140-character limit for posts is based on the restrictions of
wireless  text messages . When preparing its advertising system,
which was started in 2010, Twitter has said it wanted to create
something that would benefit from its origins.  “This service was built from day one to be useful on
mobile devices,” said Nate Elliott, an analyst at Forrester
Research Inc. “Is mobile a problem? No.”  Jim Prosser, a spokesman for Twitter, declined to comment.  Mobile Majority  Twitter rolled out a full mobile-ad service in March 2012,
about the same time as Facebook’s. By mid-2012, mobile
advertising on most days outpaced revenue from desktop-based
marketing spots, Adam Bain, president of global revenue at
Twitter, has said.  With its mobile ads, Twitter doesn’t slap banners on a
gadget’s screen to promote a product or service. Instead, the
ads exist within the stream of messages known as tweets, with
marketers paying to highlight their promotions. The ads are paid
for when a user engages with them, such as clicking the message.  Among those spending on Twitter’s mobile ads are LG Mobile
USA and Johnson Controls.  Twitter should more than double global ad revenue this year
to $582.8 million, according to EMarketer. Twitter should get
$308.9 million from mobile advertising this year, up 123 percent
from 2012, EMarketer estimated.  Adding Tools  The company has continued to roll out new services for
advertisers, including helping them better target potential
customers. With MoPub, the company adds a tool that will help
customers buy ads quickly, in real-time, on mobile devices.  “The possession of a leading exchange allows Twitter to
absorb demand for mobile ad inventory through its own
properties, while concurrently applying its first party data and
experience in device recognition to better monetize ad inventory
for other mobile publishers,”  Brian Wieser , an analyst at
Pivotal Research, wrote in a note last week.  The acquisition will make buying promotions on the service
simpler and quicker, according to Vik Kathuria, managing partner
at MediaCom, part of global-ad company  WPP Plc. (WPP)   “It is a great technology,” Kathuria said. “Twitter’s
mobile platform has continued to experience incredible growth.”  Industrywide, mobile-advertising revenue is projected to
rise to $16.7 billion this year from $8.8 billion last year,
according to EMarketer.  Hefty Competitors  Twitter remains tiny compared to Google and Facebook.
Twitter is projected to be No. 5 in the global mobile-ad market
this year with 1.85 percent of the industry, according to
EMarketer. Google is seen at No. 1 with 53 percent, followed by
Facebook at No. 2 with 16 percent.  Twitter could do a better job of tracking results for
marketers, showing how a promotion can lead directly to a sale,
according to Merickel.  In response to some of the concerns, Twitter recently
 touted  a report that showed that a U.K. mobile-network company
saw a lift in brand awareness from ads on the microblogging
service. Last month, Twitter, in partnership with measurement-company Datalogix Inc., rolled out a  service  for consumer-packaged goods companies.  “People like to talk about what they’ve read on Twitter,”
the company said in a  blog post  earlier this year. “That
conversation directly influences what they end up buying when
they are ready to purchase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  