-- Won Climbs to 6-Month High as Summers Quits Fed Race; Bonds Gain
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-09-16T06:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/won-climbs-to-6-month-high-as-summers-quits-fed-race-bonds-gain.html
South Korea ’s won rose to the
highest level in more than six months and bonds advanced after
former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  withdrew his
name from consideration to be the next Federal Reserve chief.  The currency had its biggest gain in a week on speculation
that Summers’ dropping out would mean a slower reduction of the
U.S. central bank’s unprecedented monetary stimulus. Fed Vice
Chairman  Janet Yellen  is also a potential candidate. The won has
gained 5.5 percent this quarter, Asia’s best performance, as a
pickup in South Korea’s economy prompted overseas investors to
add to their holdings of the nation’s assets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “If Summers is out then Yellen stands more chance and she
is seen as more dovish, meaning that  interest rates  are likely
to remain low for longer,” said Sim Moh Siong, a foreign-exchange strategist at Bank of Singapore Ltd. “The won has held
up very well, not just today but over the course of the last few
weeks and the reason being that it’s been supported by Korea’s
strong current-account position.”  The won climbed 0.4 percent to 1,082.23 per dollar in
Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
reached 1,081.11 earlier, the highest level since February. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, fell 22 basis points, or
0.22 percentage point, to 7.05 percent.  Ben S. Bernanke ’s term as Fed chairman expires Jan. 31 as
policy makers prepare to reduce $85 billion of bond purchases.  Global Funds  Global funds bought more South Korean equities than they
sold for the 17th straight day, after pumping in a net $6.2
billion in the previous three weeks, according to stock exchange
data. They added a net $3.6 billion last week, the highest in
data going back to 1999.  Gross domestic product  increased last quarter at the
fastest pace in a year and export growth accelerated in August,
reports showed this month. South Korea recorded a current-account surplus of $6.8 billion in July, compared with $7.2
billion in June, the  Bank of Korea  reported on Aug. 29.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due June 2016
fell six basis points to 2.89 percent, Korea Exchange Inc.
prices show. That’s the lowest level in two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  