-- World Bank Sees Cost-Cutting to Improve Finances in New Strategy
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-09-16T22:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/world-bank-sees-cost-cutting-to-improve-finances-in-new-strategy.html
The World Bank would cut costs to
strengthen its finances under a strategy President Jim Yong Kim
wants member countries to endorse next month.  A draft document discussed by the bank’s board last week
and obtained by  Bloomberg News  suggests changes to the bank’s
financial model to make it more sustainable, including a
“right-sizing exercise” to lower costs and more selective
spending on grants. It also recommends the bank better recoup
expenses when providing stand-alone services that aren’t
attached to loans.  “The overall goal of the initiative is a net reduction in
costs while retaining or expanding the capacity to deliver value
to World Bank Group clients,” according to the draft strategy.
“This may require some targeted reinvestment.”  The changes, which will apply to the next fiscal year
starting in July, are part of a budget overhaul Kim said in a
June interview could lead to “massive shifts” in funding under
 goals  he outlined earlier this year.  World Bank  spokesman David Theis said the strategy is
“meant to align the entire World Bank Group to achieve the
ambitious goals our shareholders endorsed in the spring: to end
extreme poverty by 2030 and boost shared prosperity.”  The draft strategy reiterates many ideas announced by Kim,
including creating more of a “solutions” culture that offers
clients a range of proposals based on experience and knowledge
staff has built over the years around the world. It also intends
to make the bank and its 15,000 employees quicker to respond and
less risk-averse.  Risk-Taking  The bank “needs to focus on smart operational risk-taking
while preserving its internationally respected fiduciary,
integrity and safeguards norms,” according to the report.  At the same time, the draft strategy envisions that social
and environmental safeguards followed by the different units of
the bank could be harmonized, so that they could have more joint
projects and operate as a group. The International Finance
Corp., the unit that lends to the private sector, has about 5
percent of joint projects annually.  A later report will further articulate the changes and give
a timing for their implementation, according to the document.  The bank’s annual meetings are planned for Oct. 11-13 in
 Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  