-- WTI Drops Third Day on Syria Talks; Libya Output Recovers
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-09-17T11:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/wti-drops-third-day-on-syria-talks-libya-output-recovers.html
West Texas Intermediate slid for a
third day as a U.S. agreement with  Russia  on disarming Syria’s
chemical weapons eased the threat of an imminent attack and as
 Libya ’s oil production recovered.  Futures fell as much as 0.9 percent to their lowest
intraday level in two weeks. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
joined French and U.K. diplomats in calling for a United Nations
resolution to eliminate Syria’s chemical arsenal, with the goal
of forcing President Bashar al-Assad from power. Libya is
restoring about 25 percent of its crude output following talks
between the government and striking workers, while oil terminals
in  Mexico  reopened as storm Ingrid dissipates.  “The Syria situation all looks more diplomatic now rather
than set for a military strike as the U.S. seeks a United
Nations resolution,” said  Robert Montefusco , a senior broker at
Sucden Financial Ltd. in  London . “We still have room to the
downside, but prices won’t collapse just yet.”  WTI for October delivery dropped as much as $1 to $105.59 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
and was at $106.25 as of 12:49 p.m. London time. The volume of
all futures traded was about 20 percent more than the 100-day
average.  Brent for November settlement slid as much as 65 cents, or
0.6 percent, to $109.42 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark was at a premium of
$3.69 to WTI. The spread narrowed for the first time in four
days yesterday to $3.88.  Nerve Agent  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon yesterday briefed the
 Security Council  on a report by an inspection team, which found
“clear and convincing evidence” that the nerve agent sarin was
used near Damascus on Aug. 21. The U.S. says Assad’s troops
fired chemical weapons that killed more than 1,400 people.  Ban pressed the Council to consider ways to enforce a U.S.-
Russia plan announced Sept. 14 to eliminate the toxic weapons
arsenal. The agreement, which lifted the threat of an imminent
military attack, doesn’t constrain Syria’s use of conventional
weapons.  The U.S. seeks to end Assad’s rule, Kerry said yesterday in
Paris, before the release of the UN report.  “We remain committed to the opposition and committed to
the Geneva process, which calls for a transition government,”
he said. “That’s our end strategic goal.”  Syrian Border  Oil rose to a two-year high on Aug. 28 amid concern an
escalation of the conflict may disrupt  Middle East  exports.
Syria borders Iraq and is as near as 150 miles (240 kilometers)
to Iran, nations that together control almost a fifth of the
production capacity in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Middle East
accounted for 35 percent of global output in the first quarter
of this year, according to the  International Energy Agency .  OPEC member Libya resumed pumping yesterday at the 140,000
barrel-a-day El Feel and 300,000 barrel-a-day Sharara fields,
state-run news agency Lana reported, citing Abdulwahhab El-Gayedi, the head of the parliament’s oil-industry crisis group.  The African nation is producing about 250,000 barrels a day
of crude, compared with 1.6 million barrels a day a year ago, as
a labor dispute cripples its ability to export.  Ingrid Dissipates  Remnants of Ingrid, which dissipated from a tropical
depression overnight, produced as much as 15 inches (38
centimeters) of rain over a large part of eastern Mexico,
according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami. The
oil ports of Cayo Arcas, which processes about 68 percent of
Mexico’s crude exports, and  Dos Bocas  and Coatzacoalcos reopened
yesterday.  U.S. crude inventories probably fell last week to the
lowest level in a year as refineries operated at more than 90
percent of capacity and supplies declined at Cushing, Oklahoma,
the delivery point for New York-traded WTI contracts, a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  Stockpiles dropped by  1 million barrels , or 0.3 percent, to
359 million in the week ended Sept. 13, according to the median
estimate of nine analysts before a report tomorrow from the
Energy Information Administration.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  is
scheduled to release supply data in  Washington  today.  In Iran, President Hassan Rohani is ready to decommission
its Fordo uranium-enrichment facility in exchange for an easing
of international sanctions,  Der Spiegel  reported yesterday,
citing intelligence officials it didn’t identify.  Iran is offering to negotiate a deal on its suspected
nuclear weapons program as diplomats from the  International
Atomic Energy Agency  prepare to meet this week in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  