-- WTI Crude Falls as Syria Talks Seen Averting Attack
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-09-16T19:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/wti-crude-falls-as-syria-talks-seen-averting-attack.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
to a three-week low as a plan to eliminate  Syria ’s chemical
weapons reduced the risk of a disruption in  Middle East  exports.  Futures declined 1.5 percent after the U.S.-Russian accord
reached Sept. 14 in Geneva. U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
joined top French and U.K. diplomats today in calling for a
tough United Nations resolution to eliminate Syria’s chemical
arsenal. Libya’s El Feel and Sharara oil fields resumed output,
the state-run news agency Lana reported.  “The agreement between the U.S. and Russia eliminates any
chance of a U.S. military strike on Syria in the near term along
with all the spillover concerns,” said  John Kilduff , a partner
at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses
on energy. “This coupled with the return of some Libyan crude
production is sending prices lower.”  WTI crude for October delivery decreased $1.62 to $106.59 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ., the lowest
settlement since Aug. 26. The volume of all futures traded was
8.8 percent above the 100-day average at 3:25 p.m.  Brent oil for November settlement fell $1.63, or 1.5
percent, to end the session at $110.07 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the lowest close since
Aug. 22. Volume was 29 percent above the 100-day average. The
European benchmark traded at a $3.88 premium to November WTI at
today’s settle.  Syria Talks  Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  agreed
Sept. 14 on a framework for locating and destroying Syria’s
stockpiles of poison gas. The plan gives President Bashar al-Assad’s government one week to submit an inventory of its toxic
weapons and calls for initial inspections by November.  “Assad has lost all legitimacy,” Kerry said at a press
conference today in Paris. “We remain committed to the
opposition and committed to the Geneva process which calls for a
transition government. That’s our end strategic goal here.”  The focus now shifts to New York, where the UN is preparing
to release, as early as today, an inspection team’s report on an
Aug. 21 chemical weapons strike outside Damascus that the U.S.
says killed more than 1,400 people.  Regional Production  WTI rose to a two-year high on Aug. 28 amid concern that a
U.S.-led assault would widen the conflict and disrupt Middle
East exports. Syria borders Iraq and is as near as 150 miles
(240 kilometers) to Iran. Its two neighbors together control
almost a fifth of the production capacity in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, Bloomberg estimates show. The
Middle East accounted for 35 percent of global oil output in the
first quarter, the  International Energy Agency  said.  President  Barack Obama  delayed possible U.S. military
intervention twice: first on Aug. 31 to consult Congress, then
on Sept. 10 to consider Russia’s proposal for international
oversight of Syria’s chemical arsenal.  “The last few weeks, the market has been in a Syria-headline-driven bubble,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the
Schork Group Inc., an energy advisory company in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “Now that the talk has gone from hawkish to
dovish, the Syria premium is getting excised from the market.”  Libya’s crude production has dropped to 250,000 barrels a
day, compared with a capacity of about 1.6 million, Deputy Oil
Minister Omar Shakmak said Sept. 12.  Abdulwahhab El-Gayedi, head of the Libyan parliament’s oil-industry crisis group, announced in Tripoli that operations were
restored at the El Feel and Sharara fields, Lana said. The
country’s Zawiya refinery is receiving crude from the fields by
pipeline, the plant’s oil-movement coordinator Mansur Abdallah
said today in a telephone interview.  Market Range  “We been stuck in a $104-to-$112 range for more than a
month,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “One price support is the
removal of Libyan oil from the market. There are signs of some
improvement but we will have to see a lot more return before
falling much further.”  WTI has traded between $103.50 and $112.24 since Aug. 9.  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on WTI to the fewest in nine
weeks. Money managers reduced net-long positions, or wagers that
prices will increase, by 5.2 percent to 290,058 futures and
options combined in the seven days ended Sept. 10, the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report
showed Sept. 13.  Crude rebounded from the day’s lows after equities rallied
as  Lawrence Summers  withdrew his bid to become Federal Reserve
chairman. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.6 percent
and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 0.8 percent.  Fed Meeting  Summers would have tightened Fed policy more than  Janet Yellen , who was his main rival to replace Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke , according to a Bloomberg Global Poll last week. The
 Federal Open Market Committee , meeting tomorrow and Sept. 18,
will probably reduce monthly asset purchases by $10 billion to
$75 billion, a separate survey of economists showed.  “The upcoming Fed meeting will soon be the focus,”
McGillian said. “Reduced stimulus would send oil lower.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 21.5 percent, up from 21.2 percent on Sept. 13,
data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 599,222
contracts as of 3:25 p.m. It totaled 416,632 contracts Sept. 13,
27 percent below the three-month average. Open interest was 1.93
million contracts, the most since Aug. 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  