-- Zach Johnson Wins PGA Tour’s Rain-Delayed BMW Championship
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-09-16T19:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/zach-johnson-wins-pga-tour-s-rain-delayed-bmw-championship.html
Zach Johnson  scored a two-shot
victory over  Nick Watney  in the rain-delayed BMW Championship,
the third of the U.S.  PGA Tour ’s four playoff events.  The tournament was completed today after heavy rain in the
Chicago area postponed yesterday’s final round at Conway Farms
Golf Club in  Lake Forest , Illinois.  It’s the 10th PGA Tour win for Johnson, 37, and first since
the 2012 John Deere Classic. It’s also his first victory in one
of the U.S. tour’s four playoff events.  After skipping the first event of the playoffs in New
Jersey last month to attend his brother’s wedding, Johnson is
now fourth in the FedEx Cup standings heading into this week’s
Tour Championship at East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta. Tiger Woods
is in first, followed by Henrik Stenson and  Adam Scott .  Matt Kuchar  is fifth. Johnson entered the BMW Championship ranked
27th in the standings.  “Frankly, I’m going to have to forget about this week and
just play Atlanta for Atlanta,” Johnson said in a televised
interview. “East Lake is a beast. It’s awesome. It’s a classic
and a challenge that myself and all of my peers get juiced up
for.”  The top 30 players in the standings qualify for the final
event, which is scheduled to begin Sept. 19. The BMW
Championship and Tour Championship each pay the winner $1.44
million, with the No. 1 player in the FedEx Cup standings
receiving a $10 million bonus.  Johnson, who began the final round three shots behind
third-round leader  Jim Furyk  at 10 under, had six birdies during
a bogey-free round of 65.  Furyk’s Round  Furyk had an even-par 71 today, a round that included three
bogeys over his final eight holes. Furyk, 43, shot a 12-under-par 59 in the second round to tie the tour record-low score in a
competitive round.  Watney had the day’s lowest score with a 7-under 64 to
secure second place at 14 under, one shot ahead of Furyk.
Australia’s Jason Day, England’s Luke Donald and Americans
 Hunter Mahan  and  Steve Stricker  tied for fourth at 11 under.  Johnson took a one-shot lead over Furyk at 15 under on the
par-4 16th hole when he rolled in an 18-foot downhill birdie
putt. He widened the gap with a 13-foot birdie on the next hole
as Furyk faltered.  The fourth round was delayed by 3 1/2 hours yesterday
before being suspended. Forty-six of the 70 players in the field
were on the course or finished with the final round when play
was halted by rain as puddles began forming on fairways and
greens.  Woods finished tied for 11th place with an even-par final-round 71.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  