-- Zynga, Samsung, Escobar, Purdue: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-16T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-16/zynga-samsung-escobar-purdue-intellectual-property.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  and its former studio
general manager settled a trade-secrets misappropriation case,
according to a Sept. 9 filing at a California state court.  San Francisco-based Zynga sued Alan Patmore in San
Francisco County Superior Court last October, accusing him of
taking companies files with him when he joined Zynga competitor
 Kixeye . Both companies create games for use on social-media
websites.  Zynga said the files contained revenue information and
monetization strategy for its games, plus design documents for
more than 10 unreleased games, in addition to 14 months of
confidential e-mails reserved exclusively for Zynga’s executive
staff.  It alleged that Kixeye, which like Zynga, releases free-to-play online social games, had “failed to achieve success”
because it lacked Zynga’s know-how. Zynga said that on Patmore’s
final day of employment, he refused to confirm he had returned
company data and refused to sign a termination certification
document.  In a cross-complaint filed in November, Kixeye said Zynga
had nothing that it wanted. “Comparing Kixeye’s games to
Zynga’s games is like comparing a Ducati racing motorcycle to a
minivan. Both are motorized vehicles, but Ducati motorcycles,
like Kixeye’s midcore games, appeal to a small but passionate
group of users who are focused on quality and performance,” the
company said in its pleadings.  Kixeye dismissed Zynga’s work as “cranking out games that
will fit the whole family without offending anyone” and claimed
that Zynga is “notorious for copyright and cloning the games of
its competition, often trampling those competitors’ intellectual
property rights in the process.”  The motivation behind Zynga’s suit, Kixeye claimed, was to
scare any of its employees that might want to leave and work at
the competitor, and to use the case as a “Trojan Horse” to
gain access to Kixeye’s inner workings and trade secrets.  According to the Sept. 9 court filing, a request for
dismissal will be filed within 45 days of the Sept. 6 settlement
of the dispute.  Zynga appears to be moving beyond social-media games. On
Aug. 20 the company received patent 8,512,117, which covers a
technology used to manage linked gambling video games. The
patent specifically mentioned poker as one of the games in which
this technology could be used.  The case is Zynga Inc. v. Patmore, CGC-12-525099, Superior
Court of the State of  California , County of San Francisco (San
Francisco).  Trademark  Samsung, Motorola Mobility Antitrust Rulings Close, EU Says  The European Union’s antitrust chief said probes are close
to completion into whether Samsung Electronics Co. and  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility abused key mobile-phone patents in
their struggle for supremacy with Apple Inc.  The European Commission’s approach on standard-essential
patents will be “clarified” in two separate cases, one
concerning Samsung, the other Motorola Mobility, Competition
Commissioner Joaquin Almunia said Sept. 13 at an event in
Florence,  Italy . Decisions are in the “pipeline,” he said. The
timing of the decisions “does not depend only on the commission
side.”  The EU is cracking down on patent abuses as Google’s
Motorola Mobility,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Apple and Samsung trade
victories in divergent court rulings across the world on
intellectual property. Almunia has sent statements of objections
to Samsung and to Motorola Mobility, laying out the EU’s
concerns about possible antitrust violations. Almunia has said
he is targeting “rules of the game” to prevent companies from
unfairly leveraging their inventions to thwart rivals.  “We have some others in the pipeline but not as advanced
as these two” cases, Almunia said. In the Samsung case, the
Brussels-based EU regulator is “trying to reach an agreement.”  Samsung failed to deflect the EU complaint when it
announced on Dec. 18 it planned to withdraw injunctions in
Europe that seek to block sales of  Apple (AAPL)  products.  Under phone industry agreements on standards, companies
owning the rights to essential technology must usually license
it to competitors on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory
terms, known as FRAND.  Samsung began seeking injunctions against Apple in courts
in EU member countries in 2011, based on alleged infringement of
patents for 3G technology, according to the commission.  Samsung’s spokeswoman Rhee So-Eui declined to comment.  The EU opened a similar probe into Motorola Mobility, which
makes smartphones that run on Google’s Android software, in
April 2012, following complaints by Microsoft and Apple.  Colombia Rejects Application to Register Escobar’s Name as Mark  The government of Columbia rejected an application to
register the name of Pablo Escobar as a trademark, Associated
Press  reported .  Escobar, who was killed by police gunfire in 1993, was a
cocaine distributor, according to Associated Press.  Colombia’s Commission of Industry and Commerce said the
application was rejected because trademarking the drug king’s
name would be immoral and against public order, according to AP.  His family is seeking the registration, and his son didn’t
respond to an AP request for information on how the mark would
have been used.  Purdue Says ‘OxyContin’ Name for Cocktail is Objectionable  Purdue Pharma LP is objecting to the name a Chicago
distillery and bar has given one of its cocktails, TimeOut
Chicago  reported .  The  CH Distillery  is offering an OxyContin cocktail, which,
although it contains none of Purdue’s OxyContin painkiller, is
likely to bring to mind the fatal overdoses that have been
related to its misuse, according to TimeOut Chicago.  Jim Heins, spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-based
Purdue, told TimeOut Chicago that the company objects “to any
unlicensed use of our trademark,”and said using its name in
conjunction with a cocktail was particularly objectionable.  The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, in efforts to combat
misuse of this class of drug, has recommended that physicians
and patients initially consider other pain-relief methods,
according to TimeOut Chicago.  Twenty-First Century Fox Appealing Russian Trademark Ruling  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)  is appealing a Russian
court’s refusal to terminate a Russian company’s registration of
the “PoBeGi” trademark in that country, the Russian Legal News
Service  reported .  The film wants to use the mark in connection with its
Russian adaptation of the Prison Break Series, known in  Russia 
as POBeg, according to the news service.  The mark is registered to a sports company, Begushchy
Gorod, the news service reported.  The sports company used the mark for sports events it
sponsors, promotional posters and some of its products,
according to the news service.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Cameron Names Music-Fan Parliamentarian to Oversee Piracy Issues  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron appointed a former music-industry figure as an adviser to the government on music-related
piracy issues, according to a government  statement .  Newly appointed  Mike Weatherley , a member of Parliament, is
the former finance director of the Pete Waterman Group, and also
served as the vice president for Europe of  Motion Picture
Licensing Corp.   He is known for his stated plan to wear a t-shirt blazoned
with the logo of the Iron Maiden heavy metal band into the House
of Commons, a gesture that wasn’t permitted. He is known for his
“House of Rock” radio program on Radio Reverb, a community
radio station in Brighton,  England .  Weatherley’s focus in his new unpaid position is to be
enforcement issues relating to the creative industries, the
government said.  He has an undergraduate degree in business studies from
South Bank University,  London .  For more copyright news, click here.  Patents  ‘Hydrogen Sponge’ Patent Offers Hydrogen Storage Method  A patent for a method of solid-state storage of hydrogen
was issued to a scientist at Indiana University-Purdue
University Indianapolis.  Professor Peter J. Schubert , who heads the school’s Richard
G. Lugar Center for Renewable Energy, is the named inventor on
patent 8,518,856, which was issued Aug. 27, according to the
database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  The patent covers a storage system made from porous
silicon. Use of this material makes it possible to store
hydrogen at lower temperatures and lower pressure than in
conventional storage systems, according to the patent.  When used in an automobile, the system would reduce the
potential hazards in a crash involving a car powered by hydrogen
fuel cells. The patent specifies that this technology could be
used for fuel cells for “vehicles, stationary power systems,
and consumer electronics, and non-power applications including
chemical production.”  The university’s technology licensing agency is spinning
off  Hydrogen Sponge LLC , a company aimed at commercializing the
invention. According to the company website, the initial target
market for its fuel cells is hand-held electronics.  The university said in a  statement  that it plans to seek
some funding through Kickstarter Inc.’s crowd-sourced funding
website. It is also looking to potential investors from  China .  For patent news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 