-- ‘Titanic’ Effects Maker Plunges as Bankruptcy Considered
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-09-07T20:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/-titanic-special-effects-company-weighs-bankruptcy-ceo-quits.html
Digital Domain Media Group Inc. (DDMG) ,
creator of special effects in the “Transformers” films and
 James Cameron ’s “Titanic,” plunged to a record low after it
began a restructuring that may prompt a bankruptcy filing.  Digital Domain fell 39 percent to 60 cents at the close in
New York, for the biggest decline and lowest price since an
initial public offering last year. The  stock  traded at a high of
$9.20 in May.  John Textor, chairman and chief executive officer,
resigned. Ed Ulbrich, a longtime executive, will lead the core
business. The company, co-founded by Cameron and part owned by
football star  Dan Marino  as of last year, needs to restructure
its debt and cut overhead, according to a statement today. The
company went public last November, selling 4.92 million  shares 
at $8.50 each in an offering led by Roth Capital Partners Inc.  Digital Domain said it eliminated almost all staff in  Port
St. Lucie ,  Florida , where it’s based, and that studios in
California and Vancouver will continue to operate. The company
is working on “Ender’s Game,” a  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) 
film that began shooting in February, according to an August
 regulatory filing .  Post-production work on “Ender’s Game” remains on
schedule, Peter Wilkes, a spokesman for  Lions Gate , said in an
interview. “We’re very excited about ‘Ender’s Game’ and we’re
very confident we will release it as planned on Nov. 1, 2013.”  Interim COO  Inability to access financing quickly “would materially
adversely affect'' Digital Domain's financial condition and
would require it to seek ``relief or protection from
creditors,'' according to the statement.  Digital Domain said in a later statement that the board of
directors and interim chief operating officer “are making
decisions on behalf of the company” while it weighs its
“options with regard to appointing a new chairman and CEO.”
Michael Katzenstein is the interim COO, according to a filing.  The company listed total long-term liabilities of $141.7
million as of the second quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Digital Domain Media Group started in 1993 and has worked
on more than 80 major motion pictures. It also was responsible
for creating a hologram of slain rapper Tupac Shakur for a
performance at the Coachella music festival earlier this year.  Marino, the former Miami Dolphins quarterback, owned a 3.6
percent stake in the company as of November 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  