-- Labor Market Strengthens Bernanke’s Case for More Easing
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-09-07T17:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/labor-market-strengthens-bernanke-s-case-for-more-easing.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 's case for further monetary easing was bolstered by 
figures showing widespread weakness in the U.S. labor market.  “It’s probably the straw that broke the camel’s back,”
said Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee $203.6 billion as chief
portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in Menomonee
Falls,  Wisconsin . “They wanted to act soon, and the data we
have here doesn’t point to that substantial and sustainable
improvement in the economy to justify sitting on their hands.”  Bernanke, who chairs next week’s  Federal Open Market
Committee  meeting, may push for new bond purchases or an
extension of the Fed’s pledge to hold the main  interest rate 
near zero through at least late 2014, Jacobsen said.  Employers added 96,000 jobs in August, less than forecast
by economists and down from a 141,000 increase in July, today’s
Labor Department report showed. Average hourly earnings were
little changed, and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly declined
to 8.1 percent from 8.3 percent as 368,000 Americans left the
labor force.  Treasuries and gold surged, while the dollar slid and most
stocks rose as investors increased bets the Fed will expand
record stimulus at its Sept. 12-13 meeting. Today’s report also
showed that the participation rate, which indicates the share of
working-age people in the labor force, fell to the lowest since
September 1981.  The results are “inconsistent with what the Fed wants to
see, which is progress towards the natural rate” of
unemployment, said Roberto Perli, a managing director at
International Strategy & Investment Group Inc. in Washington and
a former member of the Fed board’s division of monetary affairs.
“If you create 100,000 jobs a month you don’t get there.”  Stimulus Warranted  Fed officials’ forecasts call for unemployment of 5.2
percent to 6 percent in the long run. At next week’s meeting,
the Fed’s seven governors and 12 regional bank presidents plan
to update their estimates for unemployment and other economic
data, and Bernanke will hold a press conference.  At a July 31-Aug. 1 gathering, many members of the FOMC
said additional stimulus would be warranted unless there was a
“substantial and sustainable strengthening” in the economy,
according to the meeting minutes.  In an Aug. 31 speech, Bernanke defended his unprecedented
policies and laid out arguments for further action to combat
unemployment, which he called a “grave concern.”  Additional stimulus may take different forms, including a
third round of bond purchases, or quantitative easing, that
would be “open-ended,” economists said.  Employment Mandate  “We think QE is definitely on the table because they’re
failing on the employment mandate and there’s less worry about
inflation,” said Yelena Shulyatyeva, U.S. economist at BNP
Paribas SA in  New York . “We also expect them to extend the
forward guidance into 2015.”  Four of the Fed’s regional presidents have called for an
“open-ended” approach, in which the central bank announces a
pace of bond purchases continuing until the economy sufficiently
improves.  “That might take the form of announcing a flow of
purchases of securities per month” including both Treasuries
and mortgage-backed securities persisting “for as long as
appropriate,” San Francisco Fed President  John Williams  said in
an interview last week at a Fed symposium at  Jackson Hole ,
Wyoming. The Fed would “adjust this program as time goes on,
either to increase it or decrease it, end it sooner or later,
depending on how economic conditions develop.”  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren  and Chicago Fed
President  Charles Evans  have also favored open-ended purchases.
St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said last week that while
he backs the strategy, he wants to see more economic data before
taking action.  Gold Rises  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.2 percent to
1,435.48 as of 1:43 p.m. Gold for December delivery rose to
$1,740.00 from $1,705.60 yesterday. The  yield  on the 10-year
Treasury fell to 1.65 percent from as high as 1.74 percent
before the report.  The central bank’s asset purchases have drawn fire from
Republicans, including presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  and
House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio . The 2012 Republican platform
calls for an audit of the Fed’s monetary policy.  Romney told the Fox Business Network on Aug. 23 that he
wouldn’t reappoint Bernanke, raising questions about the
succession more than a year before Bernanke’s term expires in
January 2014.  Nudging Economy  Three years into the expansion, Bernanke has tried to nudge
the economy onto a stronger growth path and boost hiring. The
FOMC on June 20 extended a program, known as Operation Twist,
replacing short-term notes in its portfolio with longer-term
assets to bring down longer-term interest rates.  Most Fed analysts don’t believe the central bank will be
influenced in its decision by the political calendar, according
to a July 25-27 Bloomberg survey of 58 economists.  Sixty-five percent of those surveyed believe the Fed won’t
take politics into account. Eighteen percent said the election
makes the central bank more likely to act, while 18 percent said
it makes them less likely.  Mohamed El-Erian, co-chief investment officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach , California, said
four data points in today’s Labor Department report are likely
to prompt the Fed to act:  job creation  averaging less than
100,000 over the last three months, no growth in average hourly
earnings, a decline in  labor force  participation and rising
teenage unemployment.  Policy Triggers  “Put all that together and it triggers the need for a
policy response,” El-Erian said in a Bloomberg Television
interview.  The participation rate fell to 63.5 percent. The
 unemployment rate among teens  climbed to 24.6 percent from 23.8
percent.  The data add to evidence the  U.S. economy  has weakened.
Gross domestic product expanded at a 1.7 percent annual rate in
the second quarter, slowing from 4.1 percent in the final three
months of last year.  Cooling growth and weak job creation leave the world’s
biggest economy more vulnerable to fallout from the debt crisis
in Europe and the so-called fiscal cliff in the U.S., the $600
billion of tax increases and spending cuts that will take effect
automatically at the end of the year unless Congress acts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  