-- AIA Rises Most in 11 Months After AIG Sale: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-09-07T08:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/aia-rises-after-aig-sells-shares-at-a-premium-hong-kong-mover.html
AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , the third-largest
Asia-based insurer by market value, jumped the most in 11 months
in Hong Kong trading after former parent  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  sold $2 billion of shares at a premium to yesterday’s
closing price.  AIA advanced 6.8 percent, the sharpest increase since Oct.
6. The stock closed at HK$28.10, the highest in more than four
months and 6 percent above the HK$26.50 price at which AIG sold
the shares yesterday.  AIG, recipient of a U.S. bailout in 2008, cut its stake in
the Hong Kong-based insurer to 13.7 percent after selling 591.9
million shares, according to an AIA statement to the city’s
stock exchange today. The shares closed at HK$26.30 yesterday.  AIA repositioned itself as an independent after losing
business during the global financial crisis because of ties to
AIG, which would have collapsed without  government aid . AIG
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 68, is seeking to wind
down the U.S. stake in the insurer four years after a bailout
that swelled to $182.3 billion.  “The size of the offering is smaller than widely
expected,” Darwin Lam, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Citigroup
Inc., said in a report dated yesterday, noting AIG sold only
about a third of AIA shares it still owned. “We believe the AIG
overhang remains, though reduced, and may continue to cap share
price upside in the near term.”  AIA has delivered eight straight quarters of growth in the
value of new business under CEO  Mark Tucker , who was hired by
Benmosche in July 2010.  AIG may be slowing the pace of AIA sales in hopes that the
shares will rise and it will receive more cash in the future,
said Meyer Shields, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  ‘Shareholder Interests’  “AIG appropriately has a sense of urgency to get out from
under the Treasury ownership,” Shields said. “They also want
to keep shareholder interests in mind.”  AIG cut its AIA holdings to 33 percent in the IPO, which
raised about $20.5 billion and priced the shares at HK$19.68.
The U.S. insurer raised $6 billion more in March through AIA
sales, with shares priced at HK$27.15.  AIG has raised funds through sales of non-U.S. insurance
units, a consumer lender and an asset manager and reduced the
Treasury’s  holdings  to 53 percent from 92 percent. AIG said it
may acquire $5 billion of its shares from the Treasury
Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  