-- AIG’s Buyback With AIA Share Sale Misses Analysts’ Mark
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-09-07T00:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/aig-buyback-with-aia-share-sale-misses-analysts-mark.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
announced stock-repurchase plans that fell short of analysts’
expectations when the insurer was the only financial firm to
decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  AIG, recipient of a U.S. bailout in 2008, said it may
acquire $5 billion of its shares from the Treasury Department
and announced the sale of $2 billion of its stake in Hong Kong-
based insurer  AIA Group Ltd. (1299)  The size of both actions fell short
of expectations, according to Wells Fargo & Co. Deutsche Bank AG
analysts said Sept. 5 the buyback may be at least $10 billion.  “The sale of only a partial stake of AIA and only $5
billion of potential buybacks leaves us underwhelmed,” analysts
including  John Nadel  at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. wrote in a note
yesterday. They had estimated $9 billion. “Both the sale of AIA
and the buyback authorization are meaningfully below both our
and consensus expectations.”  AIG  declined  1.7 percent to $34.22 yesterday in  New York ,
compared with the 2.4 percent gain of the 81-company  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Financials Index. (S5FINL)  The New York-based insurer has
climbed 48 percent this year. Jim Ankner, an AIG spokesman,
declined to comment.  Investors were expecting AIG to sell more of its AIA stake,
 John Hall , a Wells Fargo analyst, wrote in a research note
yesterday. The plan “fails to maximize the full capacity of
AIG’s potential liquidity” and indicates a slower pace of
buybacks, he wrote.  AIG sold 591.9 million  AIA shares  at HK$26.50, according to
a statement. AIA closed at HK$26.30 yesterday. AIG spun off AIA,
its main Asian unit, in a 2010 initial public offering.  Benmosche’s Plan  AIG Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 68, is
seeking to wind down the U.S. stake in the insurer four years
after a bailout that swelled to $182.3 billion. AIG has raised
funds through sales of non-U.S. insurance units, a consumer
lender and an asset manager and reduced the Treasury’s  holdings 
to 53 percent from 92 percent.  The insurer may be slowing the pace of AIA sales in hopes
that the shares will rise and it will receive more cash in the
future, said Meyer Shields, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “AIG appropriately has a sense of urgency to get out from
under the Treasury ownership,” Shields said. “They also want
to keep shareholder interests in mind.”  AIA repositioned itself as an independent after losing
business during the global financial crisis because of ties to
AIG, which would have collapsed without  government aid . AIA, the
third-largest Asia-based insurer by market value, has delivered
eight straight quarters of growth in the value of new business
under CEO  Mark Tucker , who was hired by Benmosche in July 2010.  Earnings Outlook  The sale of AIA shares and the wind-down of two bailout
vehicles holding mortgage debt may reduce volatility in AIG’s
 earnings . Benmosche is seeking to focus on global property-
casualty coverage and U.S. life insurance and retirement
products.  AIG cut its AIA holdings to 33 percent in the IPO, which
raised about $20.5 billion and priced the shares at HK$19.68.
The U.S. insurer raised $6 billion more in March through AIA
sales, with shares priced at HK$27.15.  “A lot of shareholders would obviously have preferred them
to accept a somewhat greater discount to market price to clear
out the stake and use the proceeds to buy back stock,” said
Josh Stirling, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “One of
the things it suggests is that they’re not quite as focused on
getting out as quickly as certainly I had thought.”  A $5 billion buyback would push Treasury’s stake in AIG
below 50 percent and subject the company to regulation by the
 Federal Reserve  as a savings-and-loan holding company, Michael Nannizzi, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a
note to clients.  “At this point, it is unclear how such regulation would
affect the company’s future deployment plans,” he wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at   bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ; 