-- Taiwan’s Dollar Has Best Week Since April on ECB; Bonds Decline
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-09-07T08:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/taiwan-s-dollar-set-for-best-week-since-april-on-ecb-bonds-drop.html
Taiwan’s dollar had the best week
since April after the  European Central Bank  unveiled a bond-
buying plan to contain the euro zone’s debt crisis, boosting
demand for riskier assets.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers agreed to an
unlimited securities-purchase program to reduce  interest rates 
for struggling nations and fight speculation of a breakup of the
euro.  Taiwan’s exports  fell 4.2 percent in August from a year
earlier, a sixth month of declines, official data showed toward
the end of  currency trading  today. Government bonds fell the
most in a month.  “Emerging-market sentiment improved sharply following the
ECB bond-buying announcement,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior
economist and strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.
“Today’s data will highlight Taiwan’s exports aren’t doing well
and the  Taiwan dollar  will underperform regional peers.”  The Taiwan dollar strengthened 0.4 percent this week to
NT$29.842 against its U.S. counterpart, the biggest gain since
the five-day period ended April 27, according to Taipei Forex
Inc. It rose 0.2 percent today and reached NT$29.77, the
strongest level since July 6.  One-month implied volatility in the currency, a measure of
exchange-rate swings used to price options, was little changed
at 3.6 percent. The Taiwan dollar’s one-month non-deliverable
forwards climbed 0.3 percent to NT$29.73 per dollar today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Government bonds  dropped. The yield on Taiwan’s 1.125
percent notes due September 2022 rose one basis point to 1.179
percent, according to Gretai Securities Market. That’s the
biggest decline since Aug. 9 in benchmark  10-year rates , which
was little changed during the five-day period.  The  overnight money-market rate  held at 0.39 percent,
according to a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan Interbank
Money Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  