-- Alabama’s Jefferson County, Banks Sued by Ratepayers
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-09-07T15:15:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/alabama-s-jefferson-county-banks-sued-by-ratepayers.html
Sewer customers of  Alabama ’s
Jefferson County asked a judge to void the $3 billion in
refinanced bonds that pushed the county into bankruptcy and
replace the debt with a lower amount.  A group of state and local elected officials filed a
lawsuit yesterday that repeated the previous allegations they
made against several groups including investors that hold the
debt, the banks behind the refinancing, a  law firm  involved in
the transaction and bond insurers that guarantee the debt.  Sewer customers, county tax assessor Andrew Bennett,
elected officials from the Birmingham City Council and the state
legislature claim refinancing deals in 2002 and 2003 included
 interest-rate swaps  that were illegal under Alabama’s
constitution and were designed only to benefit investors and the
banks.  “There is no credible evidence that could reasonably
support a conclusion that the swap warrants were a remotely
reasonable financial restructuring,” according to the complaint
filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Birmingham.  The county is trying to negotiate a plan to cut its debt
and end the biggest municipal bankruptcy ever filed in the U.S.
In July county officials began talks with creditors, including
the banks and bondholders named in the lawsuit.  County Proposal  The county filed for bankruptcy last year after elected
officials and creditors failed to implement a proposal to cut
the sewer debt by about $1 billion.  The county was named as a so-called nominal defendant. The
main targets are the banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
the trustee who represents the bondholders,  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK)  The sewer customers and the elected officials are
seeking class-action, or group, status to represent about
140,000 residential and industrial property owners.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of  New York  Mellon, and
 Elizabeth C. Seymour, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, weren’t
immediately available in their New York offices to comment on
the lawsuit today.  The plaintiffs will try to prove that bondholders’ liens on
sewer revenues are invalid, which would weaken the investors’
legal argument that they must be fully repaid.  Swap Transactions  The swap transactions under attack refinanced about
$2.68 billion in debt the county took on to upgrade the sewer
system so it met federal standards. The refinancing increased
the debt to more than $3 billion.  After the transaction, county auditors reported a
$368 million loss associated with the transaction. In the
complaint, the elected officials claim the deal illegally
inflated the debt by at least $372 million. They want U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Thomas B. Bennett to require the county to
repay only the original $2.68 billion.  In June, council members filed a claim against the county
for $1.6 billion in overcharges from the sewer system arising
from alleged “criminal activity” by managers. The judge told
them to file the lawsuit.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware  at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at    jpickering@bloomberg.net . 