-- An Ill-Fated Attempt to Mix Campaigns and Credit Cards
-- B y   S e a n   V a n a t t a
-- 2012-09-07T16:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/an-ill-fated-attempt-to-mix-campaigns-and-credit-cards.html
Boosted by technology and social
media, political campaigns have broadened and deepened their
funding bases in recent years. Democrats have even rolled out a
new text-to-give promotion aimed at soliciting small donations
by encouraging voters to text 62262 -- key strokes that spell
out President  Barack Obama ’s last name.  Broadening the funding base has long been a goal of
politicians and parties, although some innovations have been
more successful than others. In the late 1970s, both parties
signed on to an ill-fated plan to actually put party-branded
credit cards in constituent hands.  The strategy was devised by consultant Edward Shelton, who
pioneered the “affinity” card concept in the late 1970s. At the
time, banks were flooding the market with Visas and Master
Cards, but putting credit cards in consumers’ wallets didn’t
guarantee that they would pull them out again at the sales
counter. Shelton believed that tying a card to a group or
product that consumers had an affinity for would make them more
likely to use it, thus making the card more profitable for its
issuing bank.  Shelton had already run a successful pilot program in
 Virginia  for the American Automotive Association, and in 1978
turned his sights on the nation’s two largest affinity
organizations -- the Republican and Democratic parties.  ‘Way of Life’  The Republicans, long in the minority, were the first to
pursue the idea. “We’ve been reaching for ways in which we could
broaden the base of the party,” Republican National Committee
Chairman Bill Brock told the  Republican Governors Association ,
adding, “Credit cards are a way of life.”  In November 1978, the party came to an agreement with
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co., then the country’s fourth-
largest bank, to run a pilot program in  New York . The RNC agreed
to provide the bank with the state’s voter rolls, which would
then be processed by an independent marketing firm. The firm
agreed to pull all of the registered Republicans off the list
and screen them according to Manufacturers Hanover’s credit
guidelines.  Those Republicans who practiced the party’s mantra of
fiscal responsibility would then receive an offer with Brock’s
signature inviting them to request a Republican Visa. Each
customer that signed up would receive a card from Manufactures
Hanover with the Visa logo on one side and “Preferred Member,
 Republican Party ,” emblazoned on the other. The RNC would
receive a $2.50 finder’s fee for each consumer who asked for a
card.  Although clearly beneficial to the RNC, Manufacturers
Hanover too had good reason to pursue the deal.  Citibank (C) , one of
the bank’s chief rivals, had recently blanketed the nation in
Visa applications, scooping up 4 million new accounts in the
process. Eager to catch up, Manufacturers Hanover executives saw
a successful Republican card program as an opportunity to expand
the bank’s Visa network across the country in the run-up to the
1980 election.  Not to be outdone, the  Democratic National Committee  joined
the party in December, announcing its own branded card just in
time for the  holiday shopping season . The DNC planned to issue
cards to attendees of its mid-term convention in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee . Chip Carter, President  Jimmy Carter ’s son, was due to
receive the first one.  Featuring the slogan, “ Democratic Party  -- United in
Victory,” the DNC Visa would yield 0.5 percent of each dollar
purchased to the party, an arrangement that more strongly
embraced Shelton’s affinity-card concept.  Undue Influence  But not all Democrats embraced the plan. Senator William Proxmire of  Wisconsin , chairman of the Senate banking committee,
called for hearings to examine both parties’ cards. He
questioned whether such programs might provide card-issuing
banks undue influence over the politicians who regulated them,
and if the parties should be pushing credit at all during a time
of rising inflation.  Moreover, the DNC’s deputy council, Cecil Cheves, “sensed”
some opposition to the card promotion within the Carter
administration, which, along with legal concerns, caused the DNC
to postpone its plan almost as soon as it was announced.  Although the Democrats bowed out, the RNC pushed forward,
seeking an official ruling from the  Federal Election Commission .
In June 1979, the commission rejected the Republican plan,
deciding it violated a federal law barring national banks from
contributing to political campaigns.  Carter himself never commented publically on the affinity-
card issue, but a month after the FEC ruling, he made his well-
known  “Malaise” speech , staking out his personal opposition to
the profligate 1970s culture that credit cards often symbolized.
“Too many of us now tend to worship self-indulgence and
consumption,” Carter famously chided.  Nine months later, the president went further, asking the
 Federal Reserve  to restrict credit card use in the economy,
employing powers granted under the now largely forgotten Credit
Control Act and demonstrating firmly the administration’s
opposition.  The irony of fiscally responsible Republicans pushing
credit cards while Carter tried to slam the door on them went
largely unmentioned for the rest of that campaign. Nor has
Carter’s anti-credit-card stance been embraced by candidates
since, if the recent campaigns are any indication.  And with the weakening of campaign-finance rules in the
wake of the  Supreme Court ’s Citizens United ruling, we may yet
see card-carrying Republicans and Democrats proffering their
party’s preferred plastic.  (Sean Vanatta is a graduate student at  Princeton
University . The opinions expressed are his own.)
Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Sean Vanatta at
 svanatta@princeton.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 