-- Apple, Teva, Salesforce.com, Mars: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-09-07T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/apple-teva-salesforce-com-mars-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. lost a bid to delay
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s request to lift a preliminary ban on
U.S. sales of its Galaxy Tab 10.1 computer until after a judge
considers Apple’s request to bar some products permanently.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,  California ,
yesterday denied Apple’s request to reschedule the Dec. 6
hearing for a permanent ban on U.S. sales of eight Samsung
mobile devices ahead of a Sept. 20 hearing on Samsung’s request
to lift a preliminary sales ban on the Galaxy tablet. Apple
argued in a court filing that its request is “more urgent”
than Samsung’s.  Apple is seeking to bar U.S. sales of the eight smartphone
models and the tablet after a jury found Aug. 24 that Samsung
infringed six of seven patents at stake in the trial and awarded
Apple $1.05 billion in damages. Seven of the eight smartphones
that Apple seeks to ban are part of Samsung’s Galaxy line.  In yesterday’s opinion, Koh said she previously disagreed
with arguments Apple made in court filings, “and no change in
facts or the law has changed the court’s opinion.”  Koh also cited Apple’s indication that it may seek to
broaden the scope of Samsung products it wants banned in a
permanent injunction as a reason not to change the hearing
dates.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, won a ban on U.S.
sales of the Tab 10.1 in June that the Suwon, South Korea-based
company said wouldn’t significantly affect its business. Apple,
seeking to make that prohibition permanent, said in an Aug. 27
court filing that Koh should also bar U.S. sales of a version of
the tablet that runs on mobile networks, even though that
product wasn’t covered by the Aug. 24 verdict.  Samsung sought to have the ban on the Tab 10.1 lifted on
Aug. 26 after the jury found the device didn’t infringe the
Apple design patent on which the June 26 court-ordered sales ban
was based. The jury instead found that the Tab 10.1 infringed
three of Apple’s software patents.  Colleen Patterson and Lauren Vroom, spokeswomen for Apple,
didn’t immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment on
yesterday’s ruling.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  Teva Sues Perrigo Over Patents for ProAir Asthma Inhaler  A unit of  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s
largest generic-drug maker, sued rival  Perrigo Co. (PRGO)  over patents
for the ProAir asthma inhaler.  Teva Branded Pharmaceutical Products R&D Inc. of Horsham,
Pennsylvania, contends Allegan, Michigan-based Perrigo is
planning to market its version of the albuterol sulfate aerosol
inhaler before the patents expire in 2017 and 2023, according to
federal court papers filed Sept. 5 in Wilmington,  Delaware .  “Teva will be irreparably harmed” if a jury doesn’t stop
Perrigo’s infringement, Teva’s lawyers said in the complaint. In
dispute are patents 7,566,445 and 7,105,152.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva,  Israel , reported $436 million
in ProAir sales last year, 2.4 percent of its revenue, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  According to  the Asthma and
Allergy Foundation of America, almost 25 million people in the
U.S. have asthma, and it is the most common chronic condition in
children.  Teva and manufacturer Norton Ltd. of Waterford, Ireland,
also named Somerset, New Jersey-based Catalent Pharma Solutions
LLC as a defendant. Catalent plans to make the generic product
for Perrigo to market, according to court papers.  The lawsuit “formally initiates the litigation process”
that could lead to 180 days of generic exclusivity, Perrigo said
in a statement through spokesman Arthur J. Shannon.  “Perrigo is committed to making quality health care more
affordable for our customers,” Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Joseph C. Papa said in the statement.  Kristian Klein, a Catalent spokesman, didn’t immediately
reply to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the
allegations.  The case is Teva v. Perrigo, 12-cv-1101, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Ben & Jerry’s Wins Temporary Order Against Porn Producers  Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Inc. won a court order against the
producers of a series of adult-film DVDs with titles and
packaging based on its ice cream flavors.  Ben & Jerry’s, a unit of London-based  Unilever NV (UNA) , sued in
 New York  Sept. 5 to block Caballero Video from selling its “Ben
& Cherry’s” series of 10 DVDs with titles that played on the
names of some of the ice cream flavors such as Cherry Garcia and
Peanut Butter Cup.  U.S. District Judge Lewis Kaplan yesterday ordered
Caballero to stop selling and distributing the materials and
said all infringing products, labels and advertising must be
destroyed or removed from retail shelves immediately.  The judge also directed that the producers appear before
him for a hearing on Sept. 12 to say why he shouldn’t issue a
preliminary injunction against them.  The DVD packaging features images of naked men and women
against backgrounds that copy the design of Ben & Jerry’s ice
cream containers including grazing cows and fluffy white clouds,
according to Ben & Jerry’s.  A woman who answered the telephone at Caballero’s offices
and declined to give her name said the company didn’t have an
immediate comment about the judge’s order.  The case is Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Inc. v. Rodax
Distributors Inc., 12-CV-6734, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Salesforce.com Backs Down on ‘Social Enterprise’ Registration  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , a provider of on-demand sales-
management software, abandoned its attempt to register “social
enterprise” as a trademark.  The San Francisco-based company filed its application to
register the trademark in December, according to the database of
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. At that time,
Salesfoce.com had said it would use the mark for software,
business-management and educational services.  In a  statement , SalesForce.com said that while it has been
“evangelizing” the term “social enterprise” for almost two
years, “members of the social sector expressed concern that it
would cause confusion around the meaning of the term.”  This represents a recent change in direction for the
company. On Aug. 16, Steve Garnett, who leads the company’s
activities in Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa, said in an
Aug. 16  blog posting  that the “social revolution” that has
caused people to spend so much time online in social networks
was the reason the company placed such an emphasis on the term.  At that time, Garnett said the company didn’t own or intend
to own the trademark rights for the term “social enterprise”
within the nonprofit sector, and that it wouldn’t try to
restrict descriptive uses of the phrase by others in
philanthropy, social responsibility, community involvement or
mission-driven organizations.  In its Sept. 2 statement, Salesforce.com said it heard from
both nonprofits and for-profit companies, and that it was never
its intention to create confusion through its application.  Additionally, Salesforce.com said it would remove any
references to “social enterprise” in its marketing materials
in the future.  The trademark application may not have succeeded anyway.
According to files at the patent office, in March,
SalesForce.com was sent an initial refusal to register the mark.  Mars Says Deep-Fried Candy Bars Not Part of Lifestyle Promotion  Mars Inc., the closely held maker of Snickers, M&M’s and
Milky Way candies, sent a cease-and-desist letter to a Scottish
fish-and-chips shop that serves deep-fried Mars bars, the
Scotsman newspaper  reported.   The letter cautioned the  Carron Fish Bar  of Stonehaven,
 Scotland , to put a disclaimer on its menu that its use of the
Mars trademark wasn’t authorized or endorsed by the candy
company, according to the newspaper.  The company said in its letter that the deep-fried treat
wasn’t in line with its marketing code “through which we
promote a healthy active lifestyle to consumers,” the Scotsman
reported.  Deep-frying counters the effects of Mars’s recent reduction
of saturated fat in its candy bar recipe, the company said,
according to the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Microsoft Plans to Increase Number of Employees in China by 22%  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest software maker, plans
to increase its number of workers in  China  by 22 percent in the
next year to support the release of new products including
Windows 8.  The company is making the move even though copyright
infringement is still a major problem in China. That country’s
illegal software market was worth almost $9 billion last year,
compared with a legal market of less than $3 billion, according
to the annual report of the  Business Software Alliance , released
in May.  During a visit to Beijing in May, Microsoft’s Chief
Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said  intellectual property 
protection in China is “still weak,” making it difficult to
sell legitimate software in the country.  The company is going ahead to add 1,000 employees in China,
where it now has 4,500 workers, Ralph Haupter, Microsoft’s chief
executive officer for the greater China region, said at a press
conference in Beijing yesterday. It was his first meeting with
media since he was named to the post in April.  “If you look at the industry and market dynamics, there’s
no doubt that the opportunity in China is kind of incredible,”
Haupter said. “The pure volume dynamic and scale is incredible
here in China.” The new workers will fill positions in sales,
marketing, services and research.  Research funding in China will increase 15 percent from
$500 million previously, Zhang Yaqin, Microsoft vice president
and chairman of Asia-Pacific research, said at the briefing.  China, the world’s largest market for personal computers
and mobile phones, is crucial to Microsoft as it prepares to
release Windows 8 next month. The update of the Redmond,
Washington-based company’s flagship software will run on PCs and
tablets, including its own machine, Surface. It’s designed to
combat  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s lead in the tablet market and boost sales of
the Surface device when it goes on sale later this year.  Hadopi’s Infringement Warning Letters Yield 14 Court Complaints  France’s  High Authority for the Distribution of Works and
the Protection of Rights , that country’s antipiracy group known
as Hadopi, has sent out more than 1 million warning letters to
alleged infringers since Oct. 1, 2010, and only 14 of those
cases have resulted in an infringement filing with a French
court, PC World magazine  reported .  More than 100,000 second-warning letters were sent, and of
these, only 340 have been identified as the subject of
continuing infringement claims, according to PC World.  Mireille Imbert-Quaretta, president of France’s Commission
for Rights Protection that is part of Hadopi, said she’s
satisfied with the results, because the primary role of the
campaign is to educate and dissuade further infringement rather
than prosecute infringers, the magazine reported.  She has said response to the warning letters and
discussions with their recipients have indicated a high level of
ignorance of copyright law among French  Internet users , PC World
reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 