-- Apple in Talks With Music Labels for Pandora-Like Service
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-09-07T20:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/apple-said-in-talks-with-music-labels-for-pandora-like-service.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is considering
introducing an online service to stream music based on users’
tastes, two people with knowledge of the plans said, potentially
competing with  Pandora Media Inc. (P)   Apple has held talks with  record companies  about acquiring
the necessary music rights, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the talks are private. The discussions are in
early stages and haven’t addressed issues such as terms, one
person said. The service won’t be part of Apple’s new iPhone
introduction next week, they said.  Pandora, based on Oakland,  California ,  fell  17 percent to
$10.47 at the close in New York, marking the biggest drop since
March. Apple, based in Cupertino, gained 0.6 percent to $680.44.  Apple is the dominant company in music, with its iTunes
media store having more than 400 million accounts. A radio
service that lets customers create online stations based on
their favorite artists, songs or genre would add a new way for
users to listen and discover music on the company’s iPhones,
iPads and Mac computers.  Apple is attempting to strike a deal directly with record
labels to gain expanded rights to songs, the Wall Street Journal
reported yesterday. The radio service may be supported by
Apple’s iAd advertising network, the newspaper reported.  Pandora pays a fixed licensing fee determined by a
government agency. That arrangement comes with limitations,
including how often listeners can hear a song. Spotify Ltd. and
 Clear Channel Communications Inc. (CCMO) ’s iHeartRadio operate under
similar terms.  In addition to the radio service, Apple also is planning an
overhaul of the iTunes store by the end of the year, people
familiar with the plans said in June. The changes will add new
features for sharing songs as well as discovering new material,
the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  