-- Argentina’s Siderar Falls After Govt Slams Controller
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-09-07T20:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/argentina-s-siderar-falls-after-govt-slams-controller.html
Siderar SAIC (ERAR) ,  Argentina ’s largest
steel producer, fell the most in 10 months after the government
threatened to push down prices in retaliation for criticism of
the economy from the company’s controlling shareholder.  Siderar sank 5.2 percent to 1.27 pesos at the close in
Buenos Aires, the biggest drop since November 2011. The Merval
benchmark index slid 1 percent.  Argentina’s Planning Minister Julio de Vido criticized
Paolo Rocca, chairman of Siderar’s controller Ternium SA, this
week for saying that the country has lost competitiveness since
2008. Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof told television show
678 late yesterday that the government should drive down the
price of steel to bankrupt Rocca for his remarks, but it won’t
do so, La Nacion reported today.  “The fall is obviously because of the argument with the
government,” Ruben Pascuali, an analyst at Mayoral Bursatil,
said by telephone from Buenos Aires. “There’s fear this may
lead to some sort of intervention, maybe a cut in subsidies.”  Newspaper  Clarin  cited Rocca as saying Sept. 3 that there
hasn’t been any real investment in Argentina since 2008 when the
country’s competitiveness started to decline.  Ternium SA (TX)  owns 61
percent of Siderar. Rocca ranks 87th on the Bloomberg
Billionaire list with an estimated net worth of $10 billion.  Siderar’s press office didn’t respond to an e-mailed
request for comment. Jessica Rey, a spokeswoman for Kicillof,
didn’t respond to a phone call seeking comment.  Argentina seized  YPF SA (YPFD) , the country’s largest oil company,
from  Spain ’s Repsol SA in April after criticizing rising oil
imports last year and lack of investment.  Expropriating Siderar is unlikely, Pascuali said.  “They can’t go nationalizing everything or else there
won’t be anybody left to pay corporate tax,” Pascuali said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  