-- Tariffs on Pollution-Control Goods Eyed for Cuts at Asian Summit
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-09-07T18:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/tariffs-on-pollution-control-goods-eyed-for-cuts-at-asian-summit.html
Representatives at the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation summit in Russia reached tentative
agreement on a list of environmental products that will be
subject to tariff cuts in a first-of-its kind accord for such
goods.  Equipment used to treat wastewater, control air pollution
and monitor the environment are among the good slated for tariff
reductions to 5 percent or less by 2015, according to the U.S.
Trade Representative’s office.  “This is an historic achievement,” U.S. Trade Ambassador
 Ron Kirk  said in a statement. The U.S. exports to the region
more than $1 billion in environmental goods that are subject to
tariffs higher than 5 percent, he said.  The agreement will be considered by leaders of the 21  APEC
nations including the U.S.,  China  and Japan, when they gather
Sept. 8-9 at the summit in Vladivostok, Russia, following
ministerial meetings earlier in the week. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  will attend in place of President  Barack Obama ,
who accepted his party’s nomination for a second term last night
at the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North
Carolina.  A dispute over government support for renewable-energy
products such as wind and solar gear has caused tension between
the U.S. and China this year.  TPP Talks  Trade ministers from Australia, Brunei, Chile, Malaysia,
 New Zealand ,  Peru , Singapore, Vietnam and the U.S. also met in
Vladivostok to discuss progress on the Trans-Pacific
Partnership, a regional trade pact the nations are negotiating.
Deputy U.S. Trade Ambassador Demetrios Marantis attended in
place of Kirk, who was at the Democratic convention.  USTR officials have said the Pacific accord will address
issues including the environment and protection from government
competition for businesses, as well as traditional subjects such
as agriculture.  A round of talks for the Trans-Pacific Partnership is now
under way through Sept. 15 in Leesburg, Virginia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  