-- Harper Insists on China Reciprocity as Canada Mulls Nexen
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-09-07T05:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/harper-insists-on-china-reciprocity-as-canada-mulls-nexen.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said
Canada will be open to investment from China as long as the
Asian country is willing to reciprocate.  Harper’s government is currently reviewing a $15.1 billion
takeover of Calgary-based oil company  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  by China’s
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  His main objective when dealing with China is to
“protect and further” Canadian interests, not just boost
trade, he said at the Bloomberg Canada- Asia  Conference in
 Vancouver  yesterday.  “We want to see this economic relationship continue to
expand, but we want to see it expand in a way where it’s a clear
two-way flow and clear benefits for both sides,” Harper, 53,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker 
before departing for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
summit in Vladivostok,  Russia , this weekend.  Harper’s ability to bolster economic relations with China,
which he calls a national priority, is being tested by growing
concern in  Canada  that the relationship is too one-sided, with
the Asian nation seeking greater access to Canada’s oil sands,
the world’s third-largest pool of oil reserves. A poll by Sun
News Network released Aug. 23 showed a majority of the Canadians
surveyed want him to reject the Cnooc bid.  Canada needs to diversify trade to Asia because of sluggish
expansion in much of the rest of the world, Harper said.
 Europe ’s debt crisis is his biggest worry, and the U.S. must
“get a grip on its fiscal situation,” he said. “We really
have to find a way of better connecting ourselves with growing
Asian economies.”  Wary Canadians  Harper said he knows Canadians are wary of Chinese
investment, and it’s incumbent on  China  to show it can play by
“the same rules” to reverse that impression, without
elaborating.  Zhang Junsai, China’s ambassador to Canada, said he wants
Canadians to have a “healthy opinion” of Chinese investment by
government-owned and private companies.  “China is a market economy” and state-owned enterprises
such as  Petrochina Co. (857)  “are independent market players,” Zhang
said at a Sept. 5 conference in Calgary hosted by Petrochina.
“Their investments in Canada’s energy sector are market-driven
decisions, and there is simply no such a thing like a secret
agenda.”  Winning Support  The idea of leveraging China’s interest in Canada’s energy
assets to open its markets to Canadian companies is winning
support among executives.  Jim Prentice , vice chairman of
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and a former Harper cabinet
minister, said yesterday at the Bloomberg conference that Canada
needs to “step up” efforts to win equal treatment.  “Reciprocity, in terms of global trade for Canada to the
rest of Asia, is absolutely critical, and I think Prime Minister
Harper has been very clear that it remains very high on their
agenda,” Jacynthe Cote, chief executive of the aluminum
division of  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , said at the conference.  Harper visited China this year to promote Canada’s energy
industry and build trans-Pacific ties, telling business leaders
in February during a dinner in Guangzhou that he wants to take
the economic partnership to “the next level.” The two
countries are negotiating a foreign-investment-protection
agreement to promote capital flows.  Next Steps  Harper said he will meet with Chinese President  Hu Jintao 
during the APEC summit to discuss the next steps in the
relationship.  The Chinese are “acutely aware” of the fact that “trade
and investment flows are disproportionately in their favor,”
Harper said, citing a “three-to-one” imbalance in China’s
favor. “They recognize that has to change,” he added, and “we
will also be seeking things from them.”  The Nexen bid will be a litmus test for China, said Howard Balloch, a former ambassador to China and chairman of the Asian
division of investment bank Canaccord Genuity Corp. The approval
process “will be seen in China as an indication of how open the
Canadian economy is for major energy investments,” he said.  While disagreeing that the bid is a litmus test, Harper
said Canada’s government is preparing a “policy framework” to
explain and provide clarity about the government’s decision
regarding the Nexen deal and future transactions.  Canada will use “very broad” criteria in its review that
will include the long-term interests of its economy, he said
without giving details.  Net Benefit  Canadian  legislation  allows the government to reject
foreign takeovers on the basis of three criteria: The
acquisition doesn’t give a “net benefit” to Canada, it’s made
by a state-owned company that doesn’t act on a commercial basis
or it creates national-security concerns.  Harper said Cnooc’s status as a state-owned enterprise
makes it “somewhat different” and leads to range of different
requirements in the review process. At the same time, Canadians
should accept that the two countries aren’t the same.  “Obviously we are dealing with a very different economy,
very different political system than ours and we have to accept
that,” Harper said. “We can’t make it a prerequisite of doing
business that they have to become just like us.”  Investors may have to wait until November or longer for a
decision on the bid. Cnooc made a formal application for
government approval on Aug. 29. The government has 45 days to
review foreign takeovers once an application has been filed and
can extend the deadline by 30 days if it notifies Cnooc before
the initial period expires. Canadian officials can extend the
review further if both Cnooc and Canadian Industry Minister
Christian Paradis agree.  Below Offer  Nexen’s  shares  have lost 2.9 percent through Sept. 5 --
when they closed at $25.50 in  New York  trading -- since Beijing-
based Cnooc’s offer was announced July 23, leaving them 8.5
percent below the $27.50 agreed price. The gap is the second-
largest among proposed North American acquisitions valued at $1
billion or more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nexen’s assets include the Long Lake oil-sands operations
in  Alberta , offshore oil production in  Nigeria  and the U.K.
 North Sea , as well as in the  Gulf of Mexico . These assets
produced 207,000 barrels a day in the second quarter, which
would boost Cnooc’s output by about 20 percent.  In its July 23 announcement, Cnooc promised to retain Nexen
employees, keep a North American headquarters in Calgary,
maintain Nexen’s planned capital spending and list its shares on
the Toronto Stock Exchange as part of its efforts to gain
government approval.  “We’re going to be looking for ways to make sure we can
promote first and foremost Canadian interests in this
relationship,” Harper said at the Bloomberg conference.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Vancouver at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Vancouver at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  