-- Asian Bond Risk Falls to Five-Month Low on ECB; Debt Sales Pause
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2012-09-07T03:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/asia-bond-risk-drops-to-five-month-low-default-swap-prices-show.html
Bond risk in  Asia  fell to a five-
month low after the  European Central Bank  announced a bond-
buying plan to support its most indebted nations. Borrowers from
the region paused dollar-denominated debt sales.  The cost of protecting corporate and sovereign bonds from
default in Asia outside  Japan  declined to the lowest level since
March 19, according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices
and CMA data. No companies from the Asia-Pacific region are
marketing bonds in the U.S. currency today after issuers raised
$8.4 billion this week, the most in eight weeks, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ECB detailed plans to buy bonds to curb borrowing costs
and contain the region’s sovereign debt crisis yesterday,
spurring a global rally in riskier assets. Payroll data in the
U.S. later today is expected to show that employers hired an
extra 130,000 people in August, according to the median estimate
of 92 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “A good market just became fantastic thanks to the ECB,”
said Alan Roch, the Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific bond
syndicate at RBS. “We’re expecting next week to be a
blockbuster week in terms of bond supply.”  Investor Meetings  The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of credit-default swaps on 40
investment-grade borrowers outside Japan slid seven basis points
to 137.5 basis points as of 8:31 a.m. in  Hong Kong , according to
RBS prices.  The  Markit iTraxx Australia  index fell 10 to 153 as of
11:08 a.m. in Sydney, according to Credit Agricole SA. The gauge
is headed for its biggest weekly drop since December, according
to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Trade & Development Bank of Mongolia LLC plans to meet
investors in Asia and  Europe  next week before a possible dollar
bond sale, according to a person familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the details are private.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite. The
swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  