-- Asian Stocks Post Weekly Advance on ECB, China Stimulus
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-09-07T23:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/asian-stocks-post-weekly-advance-on-ecb-china-stimulus.html
Asia’s benchmark  stock index  posted
its first advance in three weeks as shares rallied by the most
in nine months on Sept. 7, after the  European Central Bank 
unveiled a bond-buying program and China boosted stimulus
measures.  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) , Europe’s biggest lender, rose 2.7
percent in Hong Kong. China Railway Construction Corp. climbed
14 percent, leading the nation’s builders, after the government
announced plans to build new railways and roads. Lynas Corp.
surged 28 percent in Sydney after the developer of the world’s
largest rare-earth refinery in Malaysia received a permit to
start production in the Southeast Asian country.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.1 percent to 119.10 this
week. The gauge declined in the previous two weeks as signs of a
global economic slowdown outweighed expectations for further
stimulus measures. The measure rallied by the most since Dec. 1
yesterday after ECB President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers
agreed to an unlimited bond-purchase program as they try to
regain control of  interest rates  in the euro area.  “The  risk premium  on Asia could be lifted for a little
while,” saidDiane Lin, a  fund manager  with Sydney-based
Pengana Capital Ltd., which oversees about $1.1 billion in
global assets. “Whether the ECB’s action itself is going to be
sustainable and fundamentally improve the outlook, we still need
to see.”  Biggest Advance  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 3.9 percent this
week, the biggest weekly advance since the period ended Oct. 28
and the most among major Asia-Pacific indexes. The government
yesterday announced plans to build 2,018 kilometers (1,254 miles)
of roads, two days after unveiling plans to build subways in 18
cities. Required investments weren’t disclosed.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index gained 1.6 percent. Japan’s
Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 0.4 percent. South Korea’s Kospi
Index increased 1.3 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added
0.2 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has fallen more than 7 percent
from this year’s high on Feb. 29, dragging the value of shares
on the Asian benchmark index to 12.5 times estimated earnings.
That compares with 13.9 times for the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index and 12 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Europe Crisis  Companies that do business in Europe advanced. Draghi said
policy makers agreed on Sept. 6 to reduce interest rates for
struggling nations and fight speculation of a breakup of the
euro.  HSBC rose 2.7 percent to HK$68.90 in Hong Kong. Esprit
Holdings Ltd., the clothier that counts Europe as its biggest
market, jumped 6.1 percent to HK$12.58.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ,
an owner of utilities, retail-chain and ports that gets about 55
percent of revenue from Europe, added 2.3 percent HK$69.40.  The bond plan “takes another European crisis episode off
the table for at least the rest of this year,” said  Andrew Pease , chief investment strategist at Russell Investment Group
in Sydney, which manages about $150 billion. “It does minimize
the tail risk in Europe. There’s no doubt about it.”  Jobless Benefits  Exporters to the U.S. advanced. Fewer Americans claimed
jobless benefits in the week ended Sept. 1, while the services
industry expanded at a faster pace in August, separate reports
yesterday showed.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker by market
value, rose 3.6 percent to 3,205 yen in  Tokyo . Honda Motor Co.,
which gets about 44 percent of sale from  North America , climbed
5.2 percent to 2,600 yen. Sony Corp., Japan’s largest exporter
of consumer electronics products, gained 3.1 percent to 908 yen.  China’s biggest construction companies rallied as the
government stepped up investments in infrastructure projects.
China Railway Construction, which builds more than half of the
nation’s railways, climbed 14 percent to HK$6.66. China Railway
Group Ltd. jumped 10 percent to HK$3.22. CSR Corp., the
country’s biggest trainmaker, gained 2.5 percent to HK$5.39.  Information technology companies and raw material producers
posted the biggest advance this week among the 10  industry
groups  in the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index. (MXAP)   Japanese Utilities  Lynas Corp. surged 28 percent to 82 Australian cents in
Sydney. The Malaysian Atomic Energy Licensing Board on Sept. 5
today granted a temporary operating license for the rare-earths
miners’ refining plant, enabling Lynas start production next
month following earlier delays.  Japanese electricity producers were among the stocks that
fell this week as the government considers phasing out nuclear
plants over the next two decades. Four of 10 nuclear plant
operators, including Hokkaido Electric and  Tokyo Electric (9501)  Power
Co., would become insolvent if Japan goes non-nuclear, the trade
ministry’s Agency for Natural Resources and Energy said in June.  Tokyo Electric, owner of the Fukushima nuclear plant
crippled by the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami, slipped 3.1
percent to 127 yen. Hokkaido Electric Power Co. decreased 13
percent to 523 yen. Shikoku Electric Power Co. sank 16 percent
to 801 yen, the most on the MSCI  Asia  Pacific.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  