-- Asian Currencies Advance for Third Week on ECB Bond-Buying Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-09-07T22:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/asian-currencies-set-for-third-weekly-advance-on-ecb-bond-plan.html
Asian currencies strengthened for a
third week after the  European Central Bank  unveiled a bond-
buying plan to stem the region’s debt crisis, spurring a rally
in global stocks.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said on Sept. 6 that policy
makers agreed to an unlimited debt-purchase program and reports
this week showing improvements in U.S. jobs and the services
industry tempered concern about a slowdown in the world’s
biggest economy. The Philippine peso completed its best week in
almost three months and Taiwan’s dollar reached a two-month high
yesterday.  “The ECB taking action leads to optimism about stability
in the euro-area financial markets,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a
Bangkok-based currency trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.
“That improved risk sentiment and encouraged fund inflows to
risker assets, supporting emerging currencies.”  The peso rallied 1 percent this week to 41.67 per dollar in
Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc, the most since the five
days ended June 15. The  Taiwan dollar  strengthened 0.4 percent
to NT$29.842,  South Korea ’s won climbed 0.4 percent to 1,130.40
and Thailand’s baht advanced 0.4 percent to 31.22.  The Bloomberg-JP Morgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s currencies, rose 0.3 percent this week. Its 60-day
historical volatility increased to 3.44 percent from 3.42
percent on Aug. 31. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares
advanced 2.2 percent yesterday, while the S&P 500 Index of U.S.
equities surged 2 percent on Sept. 6 to the highest level since
May 2008.  Korea Upgrade  U.S. jobless claims fell last week and companies added more
workers than forecast in August, an ADP Employment survey showed
Sept. 6. An index measuring U.S. non-manufacturing industries
rose in August, beating economists’ estimates, the  Institute for
Supply Management  reported the same day.  The won touched a three-week high after  Fitch Ratings 
raised the nation’s creditworthiness to AA- on Sept. 6, one step
above Japan and China, citing its “economic and financial
stability in a volatile global environment.” Moody’s Investors
Service lifted its rating on South Korea by one step to Aa3 on
Aug. 27.  “The ECB’s announcement was more or less expected in the
market, but combined with good U.S. economic data and Fitch’s
rating upgrade, sentiment toward risk assets improved,” said
Ryoo Hyun Jung, chief currency dealer at Citibank Korea Inc. in
Seoul.  China Stimulus  China’s  yuan  completed a sixth weekly gain on speculation
the government will step up spending on roads and railways to
make up for a dwindling contribution from exports. Overseas
sales rose 1 percent in July from a year earlier, the least
since January, official data show.  “ China  is likely to step up fiscal stimulus soon if
exports fail to rebound strongly,” said Tommy Ong, a Hong Kong-
based senior vice-president of treasury and markets at DBS Bank
( Hong Kong ) Ltd.  The currency rose 0.09 percent this week to 6.3430 per
dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trading System.
The central bank fixed its daily  reference rate  0.04 percent
stronger yesterday.  Elsewhere, Malaysia’s ringgit advanced 0.3 percent this
week to 3.1070 per dollar, while India’s rupee climbed 0.2
percent to 55.3950. Indonesia’s rupiah lost 0.1 percent to
9,588, the fourth straight weekly drop. Vietnam’s dong was
little changed at 20,848.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 