-- Australia’s NSW Pledges Streamlined Renewables Planning Process
-- B y   I a i n   W i l s o n
-- 2012-09-07T09:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/australia-s-nsw-pledges-streamlined-renewables-planning-process.html
New South Wales ,  Australia ’s most-
populous state, promised to streamline planning and improve
network connections to attract renewable energy investment.  The steps are contained in a draft plan released today by
the state’s energy minister outlining measures New South  Wales 
will take to meet Australia’s goal of getting 20 percent of its
electricity from renewables by 2020. To support large-scale
solar projects, the state will contribute $A65 million ($67
million) for the development of the  Solar Flagships  project in
Broken Hill and Nyngan northwest of Sydney, the report said.  “Building a strong renewable  energy industry  is vital to
supporting employment and helping grow the NSW economy,” energy
minister Chris Hartcher said in a statement.  New South Wales is Australia’s largest producer of
renewable energy with installed capacity of 5.4 gigawatts, the
report said. Renewables, including hydroelectric power, solar,
wind and geothermal energy, will more than double to about 12
gigawatts based on projects already under construction or
approved by the state, according to the report.  Improvements to the planning process are among 28 action
points outlined. Others include measures to improve  energy
efficiency  and the development of a smart meter policy. The
state also promised to establish a “fair” price for solar.  Renewables accounted for just under 10 percent of all power
generation across Australia in the 12 months to October 2011,
according to the Clean Energy Council, an industry body.
Renewables totaled about 7.8 percent of all power in New South
Wales last year, with the bulk of that coming from the Snowy
Mountains hydroelectric scheme, according to the draft plan.  “Securing the Solar Flagships project demonstrates NSW is
an attractive place to invest and has the right business
settings,” Hartcher said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iain Wilson in Sydney at 
 iwilson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  