-- Baht Set for Weekly Gain as ECB Bond Plan Increases Risk-Taking
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-09-07T01:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/baht-set-for-weekly-gain-as-ecb-bond-plan-increases-risk-taking.html
Thailand’s baht was poised for a
weekly advance after the  European Central Bank  announced a bond-
buying plan to tackle the region’s debt crisis, increasing
demand for emerging-market assets.  The currency touched its strongest level since May today as
international investors bought $35 million more Thai equities
than they sold this week through yesterday and pumped a net $646
million into  government bonds , according to data from the stock
exchange and the Thai Bond Market Association. ECB President
 Mario Draghi  said yesterday policy makers agreed to an unlimited
bond-purchase program to regain control of  interest rates  in the
euro area. The U.S. will release employment data today.  “The ECB taking action leads to optimism about stability
in the euro-area financial markets,” said Kozo Hasegawa, a
Bangkok-based currency trader at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.
“That improved risk sentiment and encouraged fund inflows to
risker assets, supporting emerging currencies. Investors are now
waiting for the U.S. jobs data.”  The baht, unchanged today, strengthened 0.4 percent this
week to 31.21 per dollar as of 8:29 a.m. in Bangkok, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 31.15 today and on
Sept. 4, matching an Aug. 24 level that was the strongest since
May 11. One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was steady today and this week at
4.27 percent.  The yield on the 3.25 percent bonds due June 2017 declined
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.21 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate was little
changed this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 