-- Bank of Canada Governor Carney's Speech on Dutch Disease (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-09-07T15:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/bank-of-canada-governor-carney-s-speech-on-dutch-disease-text-.html
Following is the text of Bank of
 Canada  Governor  Mark Carney ’s speech today at the Spruce
Meadows Round Table near Calgary. The document was released
today in Ottawa.  Some regard Canada’s wealth of natural resources as a
blessing. Others see it as a curse.  The latter look at the global commodity boom and make
the grim diagnosis for Canada of “Dutch Disease.” They
dismiss the enormous benefits, including higher incomes and
greater economic security, our bountiful natural resources
can provide.  Their argument goes as follows: record-high commodity
prices have led to an appreciation of Canada’s exchange
rate, which, in turn, is crowding out trade-sensitive
sectors, particularly manufacturing. The disease is the
notion that an ephemeral boom in one sector causes
permanent losses in others, in a dynamic that is net
harmful for the Canadian economy.  While the tidiness of the argument is appealing and
making commodities the scapegoat is tempting, the diagnosis
is overly simplistic and, in the end, wrong. Canada’s
economy is much more diverse and much better integrated
than the  Dutch Disease  caricature. Numerous factors
influence our currency and, most fundamentally, higher
commodity prices are unambiguously good for Canada.  That is not to trivialise the difficult structural
adjustments that higher commodity prices can bring. Nor is
it to suggest a purely laissez-faire response. Policy can
help to minimise adjustment costs and maximise the benefits
that arise from commodity booms, but like any treatment, it
is more likely to be successful if the original diagnosis
is correct.  The Global Outlook  The global economy is experiencing a broad-based
deceleration from an already modest pace.  A New Normal for the United States  The U.S. recovery is following the same dreary path of
other advanced economies that have experienced financial
crises. GDP growth has averaged just 2.2 per cent since the
trough in 2009. Indeed, it is only with justified
comparisons to the Great Depression that the success of the
U.S. policy response is apparent.  The only good news is that some progress on repairing
balance sheets is being made.  U.S. banks have substantially increased their capital
(common equity to total assets is up by more than 25 per
cent). American households have recovered more than two-
thirds of the $16 trillion fall in their net worth in the
aftermath of the crisis, though we estimate that it will
take several more years for households to make up the
balance.  Despite this, total debt in America has barely fallen
from its peak of 250 per cent of GDP - a level last seen in
the Great Depression. This is because  U.S. government debt 
has increased $4 for every $1 reduction of  household debt .
Such treading water will persist for some time since
private domestic demand is still not sufficiently robust to
outweigh an aggressive fiscal tightening.  Bottom line, with less  capital investment  and more
structural unemployment, the Bank estimates that the  U.S.
economy  will remain over $1 trillion smaller in 2015 than
we had projected prior to the crisis.  Even in this room, that is a big number.  An Existential Crisis in Europe  Europe  is stagnating with GDP still 2 per cent below
its pre-crisis peak and private domestic demand a stunning
6 per cent below. A tough combination of fiscal austerity
and structural adjustment will mean falling wages, high
unemployment and tight credit conditions. As a consequence,
Europe is unlikely to return to its pre-crisis level of GDP
until a full seven years after the start of its last
recession.  Given ties of trade, finance and confidence, the rest
of the world is feeling the effects.  Europe’s contraction is driving banking losses and
fiscal shortfalls. But these challenges are merely symptoms
of an underlying sickness: a balance of payments crisis.  To repay the creditors in the core, the debtors of the
periphery must regain competitiveness. This will be neither
easy nor quick.  The burden cannot solely be on increasing unemployment
and reducing wages in countries like Spain. An increase in
German wages (and inflation) would ease the transition,
especially if the structural reforms now under way across
the deficit countries actually boost productivity.  Important measures have been announced over the summer
to begin to restore the single financial market, break the
toxic links between banks and sovereigns and, potentially,
help ensure that all euro-area countries can finance at
more sustainable rates.  All of these measures need to be fully implemented,
not just announced. In that regard, the Bank very much
welcomes yesterday’s announcement by the  European Central
Bank  (ECB) of significant new measures to address
convertibility risk and improve the transmission of
 monetary policy . However, it will take some time to restore
market confidence, and it will take years for fiscal and
structural adjustments to work. Moreover, the discussions
over the federal institutions that may be ultimately
required to support a durable monetary union are still in
their infancy.  Emerging-Market Economies  In China and other emerging economies, the
deceleration in growth in recent months has been greater
than anticipated, reflecting past policy tightening, weaker
external demand and the challenges of rebalancing to
domestic sources of growth.  Real GDP in China grew 7.6 per cent in the second
quarter -- the slowest pace in three years. Recent data
suggest continued softening in this quarter.  In part, this reflects a welcome policy-induced
slowdown from the increasingly unsustainable rates of
growth in recent years. With large vulnerabilities building
in the housing sector, evidence of overinvestment
increasing, and inflation above target, Chinese policy-
makers appropriately responded by tightening monetary and
macroprudential policies.  Less anticipated has been the extent to which weaker
external demand, especially from Europe, has weighed on
export growth.  More recently, in light of slowing growth and
moderating price pressures, the People’s Bank of China has
eased monetary policy and the fiscal stance has been
relaxed. In both regards, authorities retain considerable
additional policy flexibility. The  Bank of Canada  expects
Chinese growth to average about 7.5 per cent over the next
few years, materially below the unsustainable double digit
rates seen since the trough of the crisis.  The Diagnosis  Why We Expect Commodity Prices to Remain Elevated  Given the strains on global growth, commodity prices
have fallen 13 per cent since their peak in April of last
year and can be expected to remain volatile.  Nonetheless, prices are still about 25 per cent above
their longer-term averages in real terms.  In fact, real prices for energy and metals have been
well above their long-term averages for more than 7 years,
and real food prices are now at their highest level in 35
years.  Throughout the current, decade-long boom, the scale of
price increases has been higher, and the range of affected
commodities broader, than in previous upturns. Since 2002,
prices for metals and grains have more than doubled, while
crude  oil prices  almost quadrupled.  The question is whether such strength will persist.  The Bank’s view is that a large, sustained increase in
demand is the primary driver of elevated prices. The
breadth and durability of the commodity rally underscore
this conclusion.  Rapid urbanisation underpins this growth. Since 1990,
the number of people living in cities in China and India
has risen by roughly 500 million, the equivalent of housing
the entire population of Canada every 18 months. Despite
the current, sharp cyclical slowdowns in China and India,
this secular process can be expected to continue for
decades.  So, even though history teaches that all booms are
finite, with convergence to Western levels of consumption
still a long way off, the demand for commodities can be
expected to remain robust and prices elevated.  In Canada, the impact of rising commodity prices has
been reinforced by strong growth in the supply of some
commodities. Oil is now our most important commodity by
value, with its share rising over the past 15 years from 18
per cent to 46 per cent of total Canadian commodity
production.  The Declining Importance of Manufacturing  Coinciding with this period of elevated commodity
prices, the share of the manufacturing sector in Canadian
GDP has declined since the turn of the century from 18 per
cent to around 11 per cent.  For the promoters of Dutch Disease, this is the “a-
ha” fact, with the coincidental relationship described as
causal. With a broader view, however, it is evident that
the decline in manufacturing is only partially in response
to the rising  exchange rate  and, in fact, is part of a
broad, secular trend across the advanced world. Major
forces of globalisation and technological change have
dispersed manufacturing activity across borders,
increasingly concentrating the highest value-added stages
of production in advanced economies.  In 1970, Canada’s manufacturing-to-GDP ratio was 6
percentage points below the average of members of the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD). Today, it is 3 percentage points behind. Likewise,
the share of jobs in manufacturing has declined, but not as
steeply as it has in our commodity-importing neighbour to
the south. Although the adjustment has been difficult, it
has occurred over a longer period of time than the boom in
commodity prices and, in general, Canada has not lost
ground relative to other advanced economies.  What Drives the Currency?  The coincident strength of commodity prices and the
Canadian dollar in recent years has been treated by some as
prima facie evidence of Dutch Disease in Canada. But this
diagnosis ignores the fact that the Canadian dollar is
influenced by a diverse set of factors.  Commodity prices do play a role. Canada is a net
exporter of commodities while our main trading partner, the
 United States , is a net importer. This causes our
respective terms of trade to move in opposite directions in
response to commodity-price changes. As a result, the
Canada-U.S. exchange rate tends to appreciate when global
commodity prices rise.  But this is just the beginning of the story,
accounting for about one-half of the appreciation of our
currency over the past decade. Other factors also play
important roles.  Since 2002, the  U.S. dollar  has depreciated against
many currencies, including those of both commodity
exporters and importers. The Canadian dollar has
appreciated against the U.S. dollar by an amount similar to
that of the currencies of two major commodity importers,
Japan and the euro area.  Overall, the Bank estimates that about 40 per cent of
the appreciation of the Canadian dollar since 2002 is due
to the multilateral depreciation of the U.S. dollar.  The balance of the appreciation reflects forces other
than U.S.-dollar weakness and commodity prices. In
particular, a variety of attributes make Canada an
attractive investment destination, including our sound
public finances, resilient financial system, and credible
monetary policy.  These strengths limit the downside risk associated
with Canadian assets, making Canada a rare safe haven in a
risky world.  This status is reflected in the behaviour of Canadian
10-year yields, which tend to decline at the same time as
risky assets such as global equity prices. This correlation
suggests that money flows into Canadian bonds in response
to increases in perceived risk. Indeed, by this measure,
Canada’s safe-haven status is second only to the United
States and the United Kingdom. This was not always the
case. During the Great Moderation, this correlation was
essentially zero.  How Commodity Revenues Affect Our Economy  The symptoms we are seeing are not those of Dutch
Disease but rather of structural changes in the global
economy to which Canada must adjust. Although these changes
create pressure, their overall impact is positive.  Analysis using the Bank of Canada’s main projection
model - the Terms-of-Trade Economic Model (ToTEM) -
illustrates how different types of shocks to the supply and
demand for commodities impact the Canadian economy.  Regardless of the cause of a commodity-price increase,
Canada’s improved terms of trade cause income, wealth and
GDP to rise. In all cases, the Canadian dollar appreciates,
but its adverse impact on our non-commodity exports is
partially offset by the fact that a stronger currency
reduces the cost of productivity-enhancing machinery and
equipment and imported inputs to production.  Consider three different cases that cause energy
prices to rise 20 per cent, or roughly the increase that
occurred between mid-2010 and 2011.  When the source of the commodity-price increase is
stronger U.S. demand, the impact on Canadian GDP is
greatest: just over a 3 per cent increase after five years,
equivalent to about $57 billion. This is because the
improvement in Canada’s terms of trade is strongly
reinforced by greater demand for our non-commodity exports.
In fact, this additional demand more than offsets the
competitiveness losses in manufacturing and services
stemming from higher wages, higher resource prices and a
stronger dollar.  This scenario is the commodity cycle as we used to
know it. It is fast becoming a historical artefact.  When, as is now the case, stronger demand from
emerging Asia is the cause of the rise in energy prices,
the net increase in GDP is about 1 per cent after five
years, or one-third of the impact of the U.S. demand shock.
This more muted response is because Canada has relatively
little direct exposure to these export markets. Therefore,
there is less additional demand to offset the
competitiveness effects.  Finally, an increase in commodity prices driven by a
transitory reduction in commodity supply generates the
smallest GDP benefits, about 0.2 per cent in the first
year. In this case, the adverse impact of the appreciation
is reinforced by the decline in economic activity in the
rest of the world caused by the supply disruption.  The run-up in oil prices in the past few weeks is an
example of a commodity shock that provides only marginal
benefit to Canada.  In all three cases, the impact of increased economic
activity in Canada on underlying inflation is largely
offset by an appreciation of our exchange rate. This helps
limit the direct impact of higher commodity prices on the
prices all Canadians pay for food, gas and other commodity-
intensive goods.  When commodity prices increase, revenues from the
resource sector spread through the Canadian economy via
three channels: fiscal redistribution, especially by the
federal government; personal wealth increases, through
income and ownership of stock; and interprovincial trade.  It is important to recognise that, for almost all the
provinces, trade inside Canada has grown fast enough to
offset a significant portion of the declines in
international trade. Central Canada, for instance, suffered
a real decline in international exports of $18 billion
between 2002 and 2008, which was almost entirely offset by
increases in interprovincial exports of $16 billion.  Some of this reflects increased sales to Western
Canada from Central Canadian machinery makers, primary
metal producers, and chemical companies.  Much of the gains in interprovincial trade volumes
were in services rather than goods, which was where most of
the declines in international exports occurred. Well-paid
services, such as professional, mining, and financial
services, play a significant role in increased trade
between Central Canada and Alberta.  Improving Canada’s Economic Health  Recognising that higher commodity prices are good for
the Canadian economy does not mean that policy has no role.
The first objective of policy, of course, should be to do
no harm. This brings me to the exchange rate.  Should the Bank Lean Against the Exchange Rate?  Some have argued that the Bank of Canada could improve
welfare by leaning against commodity-driven movements in
the nominal exchange rate.  It is important to remember that with changes in the
terms of trade, adjustments will follow. It is only a
question of how. Our floating exchange rate helps to
achieve the appropriate adjustments without forcing very
difficult changes in the overall levels of wages, output
and prices.  We can use ToTEM to simulate the effect of the Bank
leaning against a commodity-driven exchange rate
appreciation through a reduction to the policy rate. In the
short run, stabilising the nominal exchange rate helps to
support non-commodity exports as well as Canadian producers
who face competition from imports. But, ultimately, this
effort is futile. Over time, wages and inflation rise,
causing the real exchange rate to appreciate. Non-resource
exporters are faced with the same competitiveness
challenges as they are today.  Moreover, this leads to a sustained period of above-
target inflation, which begins to unhinge inflation
expectations. Monetary policy eventually has to tighten
aggressively to restore  price stability . The cost of this
misadventure is lower output of about 1 per cent and higher
volatility in inflation, output and employment than when
the exchange rate is allowed to do its work. The outcome
could be even worse if the Bank cannot quickly re-establish
its credibility after betraying earlier commitments to
Canadians.  So, in general, the Bank does not intervene, except in
exceptional circumstances, such as if there were signs of a
serious near-term market breakdown or if extreme currency
movements seriously threatened the conditions that support
sustainable long-term growth of the Canadian economy.  The Bank does take the exchange rate into account in
setting policy. The persistent strength of the Canadian
dollar has been one of the reasons why monetary policy has
been exceptionally accommodative for so long.  Improve Our Exposure to Countries Driving the
Commodity Cycle  Economic activity in our major trading partners -
particularly the United States - is no longer the main
driver of commodity demand growth.  Research at the Bank and elsewhere suggests that,
while oil and metals prices have historically moved with
the business cycle in the advanced world, this relationship
has broken down over the past decade. In particular,
industrial activity in emerging Asia now appears to be the
dominant driver of oil-price movements.  Our reliance on the United States, which still takes
nine times as many of Canada’s exports as fast-growing
emerging-market economies, is an issue only if we expect
U.S. underperformance relative to both history and the rest
of the world to continue. Unfortunately, that is what we
must expect for some time, as the United States goes
through a difficult adjustment process.  In this context, the only way to recover the
beneficial correlation between commodity prices and demand
for Canadian manufacturing exports is to diversify our
export markets toward fast-growing  emerging markets . That
is one of the many reasons why Canada is pursuing an
aggressive, emerging-market-focused trade strategy.  Capture More Value Added in Canada  Our challenge is to develop our commodities
intelligently and sustainably. Eastern Canadian consumers
are importing oil and paying the global price, at an
average $35 premium to the price received by Western heavy
oil producers over the past year. New energy infrastructure
- pipelines and refineries - could bring more of the
benefits of the commodity boom to more of the country.  Other new markets can be found at home. For example,
as of November 2011, 255 Ontario firms were suppliers to
the Canadian  oil sands . As well, Ontario’s exports of
mining-related services to Alberta grew 44 per cent in the
last year measured. Capturing more of the value added in
commodity production, from energy to agriculture, remains a
tremendous opportunity for all of Canada.  We should also recognise that, in an era of high
resource prices, better operating efficiency, improved
resource management and products with a more sustainable
environmental footprint make commercial and social sense.
Advances in building  energy efficiency , enhanced farm
yields and power plant performance would pay immediate
domestic dividends.  However, the real prize may be in emerging markets,
which contain an estimated 85 per cent of the resource
productivity opportunities in the world.  Improve Interprovincial Mobility  Crucial to capturing value added in Canada is ensuring
that workers across the country can fully utilise their
skills. A common complaint, especially in this province, is
the lack of skilled labour. Research by the Bank of Canada
and others shows there are implicit and explicit barriers
created by provincial borders; for example, differences in
occupational licensing, which deter interprovincial
migration. The New West Partnership Trade Agreement could
be an important step to bringing down such barriers. For
Canada as a whole, amendments agreed to in 2009 to the
Agreement on Internal Trade (AIT) to encourage
interprovincial mobility of regulated professionals and
skilled trades have similar potential, if implemented.  Increase Skills to Compete  With technology and trade transforming the workplace,
the need to improve skills across the spectrum of work has
never been greater.  First, we need to continue to improve the skills of
our managers. Only one third of managers in Canada have a
university degree, compared with almost half of American
managers.  Second, we need to grow further and target better our
already high level of post-secondary attainment. Even
though Canada has the highest level of tertiary education
in the OECD, only 60 per cent of our graduates work full-
time, compared with the OECD average of 75 per cent.
Further, 20 per cent of university-educated adults earn
less than half the median wage.  Quite simply, we need a lot more graduates in skilled
trades as well as sciences, technology, engineering and
math. STEM degree holders earn a $500,000 average lifetime
wage premium and can be up to five times less likely to be
unemployed. To develop our full resource potential and to
compete in advanced manufacturing, our firms will
increasingly need workers with such skills.  Third, we need to continue to focus on skills
upgrading and (re)training for existing workers to make up
for historic underinvestment in these areas.  Sustained Business Investment  The scale of the resource opportunity and the
challenges of succeeding in a fiercely competitive global
economy are some of the reasons why the Bank expects
sustained business investment.  Since the start of the recession, total Canadian
business investment has been below average, while
investment in machinery and equipment has been near
average, in comparison with other postwar recoveries. With
the strongest balance sheets on record and benefiting from
one of the most resilient financial systems in the world,
the need for Canadian firms to build additional
precautionary cash balances appears limited.  There is a balance between prudence and action. Yes,
there are immense uncertainties in the world economy, but
we need to focus on what we can control.  We can’t save the Euro, fix America’s fiscal cliff or
restart their housing market. Should we just wait out a
decade-long deleveraging process in the crisis economies?
Should we lower our expectations? Or should we control our
destiny by building on our strengths in the new global
environment?  Conclusion  Building on our strengths requires that we respond
appropriately to the opportunities the global
transformation affords us. That starts with recognising
that the strength of Canada’s resource sector is a
reflection of success, not a harbinger of failure.  The logic of Dutch Disease requires that we undo our
successes in order to depreciate our currency. Taken to its
natural conclusion, this logic dictates that we shut down
the oil sands, abandon our resource wealth, have high and
variable inflation, run large fiscal deficits and diminish
our financial sector.  Such actions would surely weaken the Canadian dollar,
but they would also weaken Canada.  In a world of elevated commodity prices, it is better
to have them. Bank of Canada research shows that high
commodity prices, regardless of the cause, are good for
Canada. Rather than debate their utility, we should focus
on how we can minimise the pain of the inevitable
adjustment and maximise the benefits of our resource
economy for all Canadians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  