-- Belgium’s Economy Contracts Less Than Initially Estimated
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-09-07T14:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/belgium-s-second-quarter-slump-smaller-than-initially-estimated.html
Belgium ’s economy contracted less
than initially estimated in the second quarter as the biggest
retreat of private consumption in more than three years and a
depletion of stocks reduced demand for goods made abroad.  Gross domestic product in Belgium fell 0.5 percent from the
first quarter, compared with an initial estimate of a 0.6
percent decline on Aug. 1, the  National Bank of Belgium  said
today in a statement. Net trade added 0.4 percentage point to
GDP, offsetting the effect of shrinking inventories.  The revision may not change the broader view of the economy
as the report also showed that Belgian households cut
consumption by the most since the first quarter of 2009 and
reduced spending on houses for a seventh consecutive quarter.
Forecasts projecting growth for the Belgian economy this year
will have to be revised downward, Finance Minister Steven Vanackere told lawmakers in Parliament on Aug. 28.  “The contraction of residential construction confirms that
there is a broad-based lack of households’ confidence,”
Philippe Ledent, an economist at ING Groep NV in Brussels, said
in an e-mailed note. “They clearly prefer to save money as
uncertainty remains high.”  The slump in the second quarter, which followed a 0.2
percent expansion in the first quarter, was the biggest in more
than three years. Central bank Governor Luc Coene said in an
interview with  De Tijd  and L’Echo last month that the remainder
of the year would likely be “more negative than positive,” in
a signal that Belgium would slide into a recession for the
second time in 3 1/2 years.  ‘Slight’ Recovery  Ledent forecast a full-year contraction of 0.2 percent for
Belgium, assuming a “slight” recovery in the fourth quarter.  Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo’s six-party government remains
committed to cut the budget  deficit  to 2.8 percent of GDP this
year from 3.7 percent in 2011, Vanackere told the lawmakers,
adding that tax receipts at the end of July were still in line
with a projected 6.9 percent increase for the full year.  Public-sector investment fell 3 percent in the second-
quarter, the most in more than two years, and consumption by
government bodies declined 0.2 percent from the prior three-
month period, the first retreat since at least 1995.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  