-- Best Buy CEO Says Employee Training Key to Reviving Stores
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-09-07T20:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/best-buy-ceo-joly-says-employee-training-key-to-reviving-stores.html
Best Buy Co.’s (BBY)  new Chief Executive
Officer Hubert Joly plans to focus more resources training
employees at the world’s largest consumer-electronics retailer
after an uneven performance among stores led to sales declines.  Training across various departments is aimed at making
store employees “an undisputed point of reference” for
customers, Joly said yesterday in an interview. He succeeded
interim CEO  Mike Mikan  this month and spent his first three days
on the job working in stores and made a house call with Geek
Squad technicians to calibrate a television.  Joly, 53, is tasked with overseeing a turnaround at Best
Buy as the retailer heads for its first annual  revenue  decline
as rivals including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  grab customers. Best Buy’s
same-store sales in the second quarter sank 3.2 percent after
shoppers bought fewer televisions and notebook computers.  “We’ve got to stop the comparable-store sales decline,”
Joly said by telephone from  Minneapolis . “Across our stores, we
have a wide range of performance. Leadership and quality of
execution make a huge difference at the local store level. If we
can improve our execution across the system, there is
significant upside.”  Best Buy  rose  0.9 percent to $18.23 at the close in  New
York . The shares have tumbled 22 percent this year.  “The situation requires urgent action, not because there
is a fire but because this is a very competitive world,” Joly
said.  Schulze’s Offer  Founder Richard Schulze, seeking to take Best Buy private,
reached an agreement with the board last month allowing him to
conduct due diligence and bring a fully financed, definitive
proposal to the company within 60 days. After stepping down as
chairman in June, Schulze offered on Aug. 6 to take the retailer
private at $24 to $26 a share.  “At the end of the day, he may or may not make an offer
and that offer may or may not be accepted by the board or the
shareholders,” said Joly, who says he doesn’t know Schulze, 71.
“In any event, Dick Schulze is the largest shareholder of the
company, be it in the public setting or the private setting. In
many ways, all of us work for Dick Schulze and this great
company.”  The challenge for Joly or Schulze is figuring out how to
spend more on employee training and lower prices while boosting
profit, said  Colin McGranahan , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in New York. Joly has about five months to pull
it off, he said.  ‘Credible Case’  Joly’s “basically got until January to lay it all out,
make a credible case and hopefully start to show some progress
so he can convince shareholders not to sell their stock to
Dick,” said McGranahan, who rates Best Buy as market perform,
equivalent of a hold rating.  Best Buy disclosed the departure of CEO  Brian Dunn  in April
amid a board investigation into his “personal conduct.”
Interim CEO Mikan took over after Dunn’s resignation.  Revenue may decline 2.6 percent to $49.4 billion this year,
according to the average  estimate  of 20 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The company had increased annual revenue every year
since it started trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market in 1985,
according to Sue Busch, a company spokeswoman.  Joly said he wasn’t looking for a new job when contacted by
Best Buy. Since 2008, he had been CEO of closely held Carlson
Cos., a Minneapolis-based operator of hotels, restaurants and a
travel company. Under his tenure, the company implemented
initiatives to boost revenue from the Web, which was attractive
to Best Buy directors, Joly said.  “There’s a great deal of similarity between retailing and
hospitality,” he said. “The role of the general manager in a
store is very analogous to the role of the GM in a restaurant or
hotel.”  From 1999 to 2001, he oversaw the restructuring of  Vivendi
SA’s (VIV)  video-game business, which is now part of  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , Best Buy said. His experience in the technology
industry also includes a stint at Electronic Data Systems Corp.
in  France . He also serves as a director of  Ralph Lauren Corp. (RL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  