-- Biden Says Obama Makes ‘Gutsy’ Choices Unlike Romney
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-09-07T14:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/biden-says-obama-makes-gutsy-choices-unlike-romney.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  highlighted
two major tests of his boss’s first term -- the killing of al-
Qaeda’s founder and the bailout of the U.S. auto industry -- to
argue President  Barack Obama  made “gutsy” choices that
Republican  Mitt Romney  would not.  “He never wavers, he steps up,” Biden said in his 38-
minute address last night to the Democratic National Convention
in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , before Obama’s formal acceptance
of his party’s nomination to a second term.  Reprising one of his popular lines from the campaign trail,
Biden summed up the meaning of those two decisions: “ Osama bin Laden  is dead and  General Motors (GM)  is alive.”  In a message aimed at working-class voters and labor unions
worried about jobs being shipped overseas, Biden also framed the
contest between Obama and Romney as a choice between protecting
U.S. workers or global corporate interests.  With polls showing the race close between Obama and Romney,
the president is trying to convince voters that he’s their best
bet for protecting the interests of the middle class.  He looked to Biden to reassure and energize the voting
blocs the 69-year-old former senator from Delaware has been most
effective at courting over the last four years: non-college
educated whites, union members, Catholics, Jews and
Midwesterners.  American Jobs  “President Obama knows that creating jobs in America,
keeping jobs in America, and bringing jobs back to America is
what being president is all about,” Biden said. He said that,
in Romney’s view, “it doesn’t much matter where American
companies put their money or where they create jobs.”  Payrolls rose less than projected in August and the
 unemployment rate  declined as more Americans left the  labor
force , indicating the U.S. labor market is stagnating. The
figures were released today, two months before the presidential
election. Employment and the economy are central campaign
themes.  The economy added 96,000 workers last month following a
revised 141,000 rise in July that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.
The median estimate of 92 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a gain of 130,000. Unemployment fell to 8.1 percent
and hourly earnings were unchanged.  ‘Vastly Different’  Romney and his vice presidential running mate,
Representative  Paul Ryan  of Wisconsin, have a “vastly different
vision and a vastly different value set,” Biden said. He also
coined two terms -- “the Bain way” and “Vouchercare” --
likely to reappear on the campaign trail as shorthand critiques
of Romney’s approach to business and Medicare overhaul.  Biden recalled Romney’s comment in 2007 that it was “not
worth moving heaven and earth and spending billions of dollars
just trying to catch one person” as well as Romney’s early
opposition to the auto bailout.  “He saw it the Bain way,” Biden said, a reference to
Romney’s former private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC. Biden said
the Bain way was through the lens of “balance sheets and write-
offs.”  Biden said Obama considered each response to the economic
crisis that consumed much of his first term, knowing that “one
false move could bring a run on the bank or a credit collapse”
or cost millions of  jobs . Obama, he said, has “a steady hand
with the judgment and vision to see us through.”  Better Days  The Romney campaign, in response, said Biden had promised
middle-class families at the 2008 convention that better days
were ahead.  “Four years later, it’s clear voters aren’t better off,”
Romney spokeswoman Amanda Henneberg said in a statement.  Former  Pennsylvania  Governor  Ed Rendell  said the high
regard that Biden has for Obama can’t be faked and came through
in the speech, which he said hit its mark.  “What the vice president was attempting to do, he
accomplished, and that was to show the American people that
Barack Obama was tested by crisis and the way he reacts to the
sternest of challenges with strength, with conviction and with
an intelligent approach to problem solving,” Rendell said in an
interview from the delegation section of Pennsylvania, Biden’s
native state.  ‘More Insight’  Biden’s speech gave Americans “a little more insight into
the man Barack Obama really is,” said Julie Meyers, 56, a
pediatrician and delegate from Pawtucket, Rhode Island.  The vice president had been overshadowed at the convention
by former President  Bill Clinton , whose speech a night earlier
was a forceful rebuttal of Republican criticisms of the
president.  Still, Biden has been Obama’s point man on ending the  Iraq
war , overseeing stimulus spending and debt negotiations with
congressional Republicans. Last night, he recounted sitting in
the White House Situation Room as the president decided to go
forward with the raid that killed bin Laden.  “His response was decisive,” Biden said. “He said do
it.”  Biden has headlined more than 100 political events as the
president seeks to win battleground states, and today will
campaign alongside Obama in New Hampshire and  Iowa  before
splitting off for  Ohio .  Miscues  An effusive and outgoing man, Biden also is known for using
an expletive -- caught on microphone -- to describe how big a
deal the president’s health-care expansion was and for recently
telling a racially mixed audience that Romney’s policies toward
 Wall Street  would put them back “in chains.”  Obama had to speed the timing of his announcement that he
supports gay marriage after Biden unexpectedly expressed his own
support.  The vice president offered a contrast to Ryan, 42, chairman
of the House Budget Committee, who has proposed transforming the
Medicare health coverage system into one of set contributions --
or vouchers -- for future seniors in place of the current
benefits system.  Ryan, in an Aug. 29 address to the  Republican National
Convention  in Tampa,  Florida , said Democrats under Obama have
“run out of ideas. Their moment came and went. Fear and
division is all they’ve got left.”  Both Biden and Ryan are playing the part of attack dog on
the campaign trail. They’re also seen as possible presidential
candidates four years from now, although Biden already has twice
run unsuccessfully and will turn 74 in 2016.  From now through November, Biden and Ryan each will spend
much of their time competing for white, non-college-educated
voters in states like Ohio, Iowa, Florida and Wisconsin.  Ruy Teixeira, a political demographer affiliated with the
Center for American Progress, a Washington group typically
aligned with Democrats, said Biden’s gaffes have distracted from
his effectiveness on the campaign trail.  “He is probably a net positive, maybe not a huge
positive,” Teixeira said. “Vice presidents, in the end, don’t
really matter that much.” Still, he said, Romney needs to worry
about anyone undercutting his support among white, non-college
educated voters given the nation’s changing demographic profile.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  