-- Obama Exaggerates Deficit Savings in Budget: Reality Check
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-07T05:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/biden-overstates-impact-of-romney-s-tax-plan-reality-check.html
President  Barack Obama  and Vice
President  Joe Biden  made a number of factual assertions in their
acceptance speeches last night at the Democratic National
Convention in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . How did they square
with reality?  Obama’s Deficit Plan  The Claim: Obama said that “independent experts” agree
his budget plan “would cut our deficit by $4 trillion.”  The Background: The  U.S. budget deficit  has taken a central
role in this year’s presidential campaign. The $4 trillion
figure mentioned by Obama and others is politically significant
because that’s how much was recommended by the chairmen of
Obama’s 2010 deficit-reduction commission. For some budget
experts, the panel’s proposal has become the standard of fiscal
rectitude.  The Facts: Obama was incorrect. His budget does purport to
cut the deficit by more than $4 trillion. Some of the savings
are illusory, such as $700 billion that comes through an
accounting gimmick related to war spending -- counting as budget
cuts the money that won’t be used for wars that are ending.  ‘Well Short’  The deficit-reduction figure also includes more than $1
trillion in cuts in so-called discretionary spending that were
already agreed to as part of a deal last year to raise the
government’s debt limit. The administration’s budget “falls
well short” of $4 trillion in savings, according to February
analysis by the nonpartisan Committee for a Responsible  Federal
Budget .  Ultimately, what matters with a budget is how it affects
the debt, not how much it purports to cut. That’s because when
politicians claim to save a certain amount of money, they’re
comparing their proposed budget to what they say the government
would otherwise spend over the next decade.  Politicians can inflate purported savings by exaggerating
how much the government would spend in the absence of their
budget. The more they assume, the bigger the savings appears.  It’s more important to look at where a budget leaves the
federal debt over the  long term . Republican vice presidential
nominee Paul Ryan’s plan would leave the government with a $15.3
trillion debt in 2022, which would be about 62 percent of the
nation’s economy. Obama’s plan would results in an $18.8
trillion debt in 2022, or about 76 percent of the gross domestic
product.  Clinton’s Tax Rates  The Claim: Obama said he wants “the wealthiest households
to pay higher taxes on incomes over $250,000 - the same rate we
had when  Bill Clinton  was president.”  The Background: Obama wants to let the George W. Bush-era
tax cuts for top earners expire as scheduled at the end of 2012.
He links the tax rates in place under Clinton with the economic
expansion and job growth that occurred during the 1990s.  The Facts: Obama is telling only part of the story about
the taxes he wants top earners to pay. Yes, he is proposing that
the top marginal rate on ordinary income return to 39.6 percent,
which is what it was under Clinton. At the same time, he has
proposed or already enacted provisions that would make these
households pay more than they did under Clinton.  Obamacare Taxes  The 2010 health care law included a 0.9 percent tax on the
wages of top earners and a 3.8 percent tax on their unearned
income, such as  capital gains  and dividends. Those levies, which
will take effect in 2013, would raise taxes by $318 billion over
the next decade, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Furthermore, Obama has proposed capping the tax breaks
received by top earners at 28 percent. That would limit their
ability to deduct charitable contributions, mortgage interest
and state and local taxes. They also would pay taxes on their
municipal bond income and employer-sponsored health insurance,
which are both now not taxed. Those proposals, in Obama’s most
recent budget, would raise $584.2 billion over the next 10
years, according to the Office of Management and Budget.  In one respect, top earners would get a partially
offsetting break, because Obama wouldn’t change the tax rates
for the first $200,000 of income for individuals and the first
$250,000 of income for married couples.  Territorial Tax  The Claim: Biden said that Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  has proposed “a new tax -- it’s called a
territorial tax -- which the experts have looked at and they
acknowledge it will create 800,000 new jobs -- all of them
overseas. All of them.”  The Background: Romney has proposed changing the basic
principles of the U.S. international tax system. Under current
law, companies owe U.S. taxes on the profits they earn around
the world. They receive tax credits for payments to foreign
governments and don’t have to pay U.S. taxes until they bring
the money home. U.S.-based companies with substantial overseas
operations keep profits overseas to avoid taxation here. Romney
wants the U.S. to adopt a territorial tax system under which
companies would owe little or no taxes on their overseas income.  The Facts: Biden overstated the case. His 800,000 jobs
number is based on a study conducted by one expert, Kimberly Clausing, an economics professor at  Reed College  in  Portland ,
 Oregon . Her July analysis examined the effects of a “pure”
territorial system under which U.S. companies would face no
domestic taxes on their foreign income.  Romney hasn’t provided details on what his territorial tax
system would look like. The clearest Republican proposal on the
issue has come from Representative  Dave Camp  of  Michigan , the
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee. It would exempt
95 percent of foreign income and includes provisions opposed by
companies that prevent them from shifting profits outside the
U.S. That’s not the pure proposal that Clausing analyzed.  U.S. companies maintain that a territorial tax system would
make them more competitive in foreign markets, creating more
jobs in research and administration that are often located in
the U.S.  Clausing’s study doesn’t say that no jobs would be created
in the U.S. Instead, it says that a pure territorial tax plan
would increase employment by U.S. companies in low-tax
countries.  Campaign Finance  The Claim: Obama said, “If you reject the notion that our
government is forever beholden to the highest bidder, you need
to stand up in this election.” He decried “the people with the
$10 million checks who are trying to buy this election.”  The Background: Although he was the first major-party
presidential nominee to reject federal funding and post-
Watergate limits on private contributions when he ran in 2008,
Obama has portrayed himself as a reformer on campaign finance.
He refused to take contributions from registered lobbyists,
didn’t allow them to raise money for his campaign, and banned
former aides from lobbying the White House. Obama criticized the
U.S. Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision, which led to the
creation of super-political action committees and an explosion
of nonprofit groups running political ads without disclosing
their donors. He has endorsed legislation requiring such groups
to identify who’s funding the ads.  The Facts: Obama himself is benefiting from a super-PAC
that’s running ads against Romney. The group, Priorities USA
Action, has raised $25.5 million through July, compared with
$137 million taken in by two groups supporting the Republican
challenger.  Obama has done little that is within his power to change
campaign finance rules. The  Federal Election Commission , which
oversees elections, could impose new disclosure requirements and
pass tougher regulations concerning super-PACs, which are
supposed to operate independently of candidates, though they are
staffed by former campaign aides. The problem is the FEC is
deadlocked along party lines, with the three Republicans
opposing any new regulations.  Obama could appoint new commissioners; five of the six
members are currently serving past their expired terms. In four
years, the president has nominated only one commissioner, and
withdrew that name after the Senate failed to act.  “Notwithstanding his promises to the contrary on the
campaign trail, cleaning up  Washington  has not been a high
priority for President Obama,”  Paul Ryan , a lawyer for the
Campaign Legal Center, which seeks stronger oversight of
political giving, said in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Charlotte, North Carolina at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Charlotte, North Carolina at  jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Clark Hoyt at 
 choyt2@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  