-- Big 12 Conference Signs TV Contract With ESPN, Fox Through 2025
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-09-07T21:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/big-12-conference-signs-tv-contract-with-espn-fox-through-2025.html
The  Big 12 Conference  signed an
agreement with Walt Disney Co.’s ESPN and New Corp.’s Fox Sports
Media Group to televise its football and basketball games
through the 2024-2025 season, the conference said in a press
release.  As part of the  13-year agreement , ABC/ESPN will share the
conference’s football over-the-air and cable rights with Fox,
but will remain the primary rights holder of Big 12 men’s
basketball, including the Big 12 men’s tournament.  The agreement will pay the conference $2.6 billion,
 ESPN.com (DIS)  reported without citing its sources. That amounts to
about $20 million for each school every year.  The television announcement comes after a tumultuous year
in which it wasn’t clear whether the Big 12 would survive.  Texas
A&M  and Missouri left, following  Nebraska ’s and  Colorado ’s
departures a year earlier. The Pac-12 unsuccessfully courted
 Texas  and  Oklahoma . The Big 12 lured Texas Christian University
and West Virginia to join, bringing membership to 10.  “The stability of the Big 12 Conference is cemented,”
Commissioner Bob Bowlsby said in a press release. “We are
positioned with one of the best media rights arrangements in
collegiate sports, providing the Conference and its members
unprecedented revenue growth, and sports programming over two
networks.”  The ABC/ESPN agreement, which begins this fall, replaces
the previous eight-year agreement that would have run through
2015-2016. It runs concurrently with the 13-year agreement the
Big 12 Conference signed with  Fox (NWSA)  last spring, the conference
said.  The cable network said the Big 12’s per-year average is
slightly less than the Pac-12 Conference’s $21 million per-
school media rights deal and on par with the Big Ten’s per-
school average.  Big 12 spokesman Bob Burda didn’t immediately return
messages left at his office.  The agreement includes an increase in the number of
guaranteed national football telecasts to a minimum of 25 per
season on a combination of ABC, Fox, ESPN and FX.  It allows Fox over-the-air access to Big 12 football with a
minimum of six games annually on broadcast television.  And it allows ESPN cable access to Big 12 football for
ESPN, ESPN2 and ESPNU.  The Big 12 Conference, based in Irving, Texas, is comprised
of 10 schools, including: Baylor, Iowa State,  Kansas  State,
Kansas, Oklahoma, Oklahoma State,  Texas Christian University ,
Texas, Texas Tech and West Virginia.  “The Big 12 will generate per member television revenue at
the highest level of college athletics, while increasing
exposure for our programs,” Oklahoma State University President
and Big 12 Conference board of directors chairman Burns Hargis
said in a press release. “The conference is excited to build
upon its longstanding relationships with both ESPN and Fox.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  