-- Blackstone’s Blitzer Is Said to Manage $1.5 Billion Fund
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-09-07T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/blackstone-s-blitzer-is-said-to-manage-1-5-billion-fund.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  has raised about
$1.5 billion from clients for a fund that will be managed by
 David Blitzer , a senior managing director who started the New
York-based firm’s European private-equity business in 2002.  The fund focuses on assets that are too illiquid for most
hedge funds to buy and more easily traded than the companies and
loans purchased by private-equity firms, said two people
familiar with the matter. Blackstone began raising money for the
Tactical Opportunities fund last year to take advantage of
investments sourced from its private-equity, hedge fund and real
estate businesses, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  Private-equity firms are increasingly expanding beyond
buying and selling companies to boost assets amid a lull in
corporate deals. Blackstone, the world’s biggest private-equity
firm by assets, relied on  real estate  for 48 percent of its $3.3
billion of revenue last year while private equity accounted for
18 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Tactical Opportunities “pursues a global multi-asset
approach to investing in illiquid assets,” according to
Blackstone’s website. Its nine-member investment team leverages
information from the firm’s other business to “source, execute
and capitalize on investment opportunities that others cannot.”
The team includes London-based Chad Pike, a senior managing
director who’s a member of the firm’s real estate investment
committee.  Christine Anderson , a Blackstone spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  NBA Owner  Blitzer, 43, joined Blackstone in 1991 before moving to
London 10 years ago. He’s since returned to New York and was
among a group including  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  co-founder
 Joshua Harris  that bought the National Basketball Association’s
Philadelphia 76ers last year.  Blackstone’s hedge-funds group, Blackstone Alternative
Asset Management, or BAAM, has increased assets by more than 50
percent to $43 billion in the past three years. The firm’s real
estate business, led by  Jonathan Gray , accounted for 63 percent
of the company’s economic net income last year. Its credit
business GSO, led by Bennett Goodman, increased assets by 50
percent to $50.5 billion in the 12 months ended June 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in  London  at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  