-- Brazil to Reduce Power Costs, Pressure Banks to Foster Growth
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2012-09-07T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/brazil-to-seek-new-tax-cuts-to-help-fuel-growth-rousseff-says.html
Brazil  will cut energy costs for
companies and consumers while pressuring banks to lower lending
rates to accelerate growth in the world’s sixth-largest economy,
President  Dilma Rousseff  said.  Electricity rates will fall by an average of 16.2 percent
for households and as much as 28 percent for producers starting
next year, Rousseff said yesterday in a nationally-televised
speech to commemorate Brazil’s Independence Day. The move marks
a change for the 64-year-old president’s administration, which
had previously focused on bolstering consumer demand to aid
growth.  “It’s a new concept, a new attitude,” Rousseff said. “It
means reducing production costs and the price of goods to
generate jobs and income.”  Brazil’s economy has shown signs of recovery after
stagnating for the past year, as policy makers reduced the
benchmark lending rate more than any other G-20 nation to a
record low of 7.5 percent, cut levies on cars and  consumer goods 
and encouraged banks to increase lending. Brazil’s industry pays
an average of 330 reais ($162) per megawatt-hour, the fourth-
highest rate in the world, according to a statement on the
website of the National Industry Confederation.  Stimulus Measures  Brazil’s stimulus measures have been slow to jump-start
economic growth, which trails all other BRIC nations. Gross
domestic product in the second quarter expanded 0.4 percent from
the previous three months, missing economists’ forecasts.
Analysts expect economic expansion of 1.64 percent this year,
down from 2.7 percent last year and 7.5 percent in 2010,
according to the latest central bank survey.  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  Chief Executive Officer Irene Rosenfeld
cited slower growth in Brazil as a factor in slumping gum
revenue during an Aug. 2 conference call with analysts.
 Mastercard Inc. (MA)  CEO Ajaypal Banga said Aug. 30 that the company
was watching an economic “softening” in Brazil.  The government will create conditions for lower  interest
rates  and reduce taxes while ensuring fiscal discipline,
Rousseff said. The government will also seek a “fairly valued
currency,” she said. The real has lost 8 percent against the
dollar this year, the most in major Latin American countries.  ‘Won’t Rest’  Banks need to further reduce lending rates to consumers,
especially on credit cards, Rousseff said, adding she “won’t
rest until that happens.” The effects of Brazil’s accelerated
economic recovery would be felt from next year, Rousseff said.  Car and light vehicle sales reached a record high in
August, Brazil’s car dealership association Fenabrave said on
Sept. 4. Retail sales in June saw the biggest monthly jump since
January.  Rousseff’s government this week raised tariffs on imported
goods such as petrochemicals and steel to protect local
industry, which saw output decline 2.5 percent in the second
quarter. That decision drove the Bovespa index to  rebound  from a
one-month low on Sept. 5, as  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA , the country’s second-largest steelmaker, jumped the most in
four years on the announcement.  Rousseff has also stepped up efforts to eliminate
infrastructure bottlenecks to drive faster growth. Last month,
she announced plans to sell licenses to build and operate roads
and railways designed to attract as much as $66 billion in
investment. The government is also preparing plans to auction
concessions to operate and build new ports and airports.  Brazil will seek to spark demand by cutting taxes, Rousseff
said.  “I won’t rest from searching for new ways to reduce taxes
and utility rates without knocking public accounts out of
balance,” she said.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  hinted at the
scope of changes Rousseff is seeking in a speech on Aug. 29.  “The Brazilian economy is undergoing a gradual recovery
but we must keep taking measures to stimulate investment and
consumption,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  