-- Brazil's Arabica Discount Narrows as ICE Futures Decline
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-09-07T09:42:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/brazil-s-arabica-discount-narrows-as-ice-futures-decline.html
Buyers of coffee from  Brazil , the
world’s largest producer, were getting a smaller discount for
arabica beans this week, with futures in New York sliding,
according to Flavour Coffee and Cazarini Trading Co.  Fine-cup beans were trading at a discount of 6 cents a
pound to the price of the December contract on ICE Futures U.S.
in New York, from 8 cents a pound last week, data from Rio de
Janeiro-based broker Flavour Coffee showed. Good-cup quality
beans were at a discount of 16 cents a pound from 18 cents a
pound last week, it said in a report e-mailed yesterday.  Arabica coffee futures fell 2.7 percent this week as
 stockpiles  of beans certified by the exchange climbed to 1.994
million bags, the highest since 2010. The price dropped 29
percent this year. Fine-cup quality beans are usually more
expensive than good-cup ones because of the taste profile.  “Most of the exporters are sidelined for both purchases
and sales,” Thiago Cazarini, a broker at Varginha, Brazil-based
Cazarini Trading, said in a report e-mailed yesterday.
“Differentials tightened 2 to 3 cents a pound in the past two
weeks,” he said, referring to a discount or a premium that
buyers have to pay to obtain physical coffee in relation to the
price on the futures market.  Coffee production in Brazil will rise to 50.5 million bags
this year from 43.5 million bags a year earlier, as arabica
trees entered the higher yielding half of a two-year cycle, the
 Agriculture Ministry  said yesterday. That compares with a May 10
estimate of 50.4 million bags.  Robusta Premium  Buyers of conillons, as Brazilian robusta beans are known,
are paying a premium of 14 cents a pound ($309 a metric ton) to
the price on the NYSE Liffe exchange in  London , up from 13 cents
a pound last week, according to Flavour Coffee data.  “The local market was again firm even with the lower
Liffe,” Flavour Coffee said in the report. Robusta coffee
futures declined 2.3 percent this week.  Robusta coffee for November delivery was up 0.9 percent to
$2,030 a ton by 10:10 a.m. in London. Arabica coffee for
December delivery rose 1.5 percent to $1.606 a pound in  New
York . A bag of coffee weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 