-- Bronx Bodega Worker Fleeing Robbers Fatally Shot by NYPD
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-09-07T20:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/bronx-bodega-worker-fleeing-robbers-fatally-shot-by-nypd.html
A 20-year-old store employee was
shot and killed by a police officer as he sought safety from
armed robbers in the Bronx section of  New York , police said.  The victim ran out of the bodega where the robbery occurred
and collided with a police officer who had his weapon drawn,  New
York City  Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said today at a news
conference. The man, identified by the police as Reynaldo
Cuevas, was working at the store and was the nephew of the
owner, Kelly said.  “The two became entangled, at which point we believe the
officer accidentally discharged his weapon,” Kelly said.  The shooting happened two weeks after police shot and
killed a man outside the Empire State Building after he fatally
shot a former coworker in midtown  Manhattan . As many as nine
people were injured Aug. 24 when police officers shot the
assailant,  Jeffrey Johnson , who had tried to shoot the officers,
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  On Aug. 11, a man brandishing a knife was shot to death by
the police in the Times Square area. He ignored two officers’
orders to drop the knife and they “responded appropriately” by
firing, Kelly said afterward, according to the New York Times.  In his weekly appearance on WOR radio today, the mayor
defended the police in the Empire State Building incident. He
didn’t discuss the Bronx shooting.  “If you take a look at the number of times New York City
police officers pull and use their gun compared to any other
city per capita, you have to have a separate chart, it’s so
low,” Bloomberg said.  Bronx Robbery  The robbery in the Bronx began at about 2 a.m. when three
men, one armed with a .32-caliber revolver, entered the grocery
store at 169th Street and Franklin Avenue, Kelly said. The 20-
year-old and the store manager were ordered to lie on the floor
while the men filled a backpack with cash, cigarettes and
lottery tickets.  A passerby called 911. When police officers arrived, two of
the robbers fled to the back of the store and into the basement,
Kelly said. The workers ran out of the store, the commissioner
said. The victim was shot in the left shoulder and pronounced
dead at St. Barnabas Hospital, Kelly said.  Two men surrendered to police. The third man in the
basement was tied to a pole pretending to be a victim, according
to Kelly.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall 
at   hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net . 