-- Brunei Prince Sued by Investors Over Elektromotive Stake
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-09-07T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/brunei-prince-sued-by-economist-over-elektromotive-stake.html
Brunei’s Prince Abdul Hakeem Jefri,
the Sultan’s nephew, was sued by nine people including an
economist over claims he breached an agreement by refusing to
transfer shares in Singapore-listed  Elektromotive Group Ltd. (LEX)   Kit Wei Zheng and the others are seeking the return of
their S$890,000 ($717,000) investment in exchange for a stake in
the electric vehicle charging company, according to their
lawsuit filed with the Singapore High Court. The first closed
hearing is scheduled for Sept. 10.  Hakeem, who was executive chairman of Elektromotive, failed
to transfer the shares by the scheduled completion date of July
19, 2011, and has yet to do so, according to the complaint. The
investors claimed they suffered loss as Elektromotive shares
have fallen since then. The stock closed at 0.2 Singapore cents
yesterday, an 84 percent slide from the 1.25 cents on July 19,
2011.  “They’ve paid the prince money and he’s failed his part of
the bargain,” said Paul Seah, a lawyer representing the
investors including Citigroup Inc. economist Kit, whose
involvement is in a personal capacity. Hakeem’s lawyer Low Chai Chong declined to comment.  The prince claimed he couldn’t transfer the shares to the
investors as he’s embroiled in confidential arbitration
proceedings with the company, according to his court papers.
Hakeem isn’t allowed to remove certain assets including
Elektromotive shares as part of an interim order by the
arbitration tribunal, according to the court filing.  “The only remedy is the transfer of the shares,” Hakeem
said in court papers, adding that the investors aren’t entitled
to the return of their investment.  Hakeem has sued Elektromotive Vice Chairman Ang Gee Hing
for inducing him into taking a stake in the company and then
excluding him from decision-making. Ang has said he’s defending
the lawsuit and is seeking to dismiss the prince’s claims.  The case is Kit Wei Zheng v Prince Abdul Hakeem Jefri.
S588/2012. Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  