-- Serena Williams, Victoria Azarenka Reach U.S. Open Women’s Final
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-09-08T04:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/bryan-brothers-win-fourth-u-s-open-doubles-title-12th-overall.html
Three-time champion  Serena Williams 
lost only eight points on her serve in a 6-1, 6-2 defeat of
Italy’s Sara Errani as she advanced to face top-seeded  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus in today’s  U.S. Open  women’s final.  Williams, 30, the fourth seed from the U.S., had 38 winners
compared to six for her 10th-seeded opponent. She completed the
64-minute victory with her ninth ace of the match.  Azarenka, 23, defeated No. 3  Maria Sharapova  of Russia in
three sets in yesterday’s other semifinal at the National Tennis
Center in New York to reach her first U.S. Open final.  “It’s really awesome, this is what I wanted and dreamed of
all year,” Williams said in an on-court interview. “I’m really
happy I’m in the final again, and I’m really excited.”  Weather permitting, the men’s semifinals will be held this
afternoon followed by the women’s final at night. According to
www.weather.com, the forecast calls for a 30 percent chance of
thunderstorms starting at 4 p.m. and continuing through the
night.  Defending champion and No. 2 seed Novak Djokovic of Serbia
plays No. 4  David Ferrer  of Spain in one of the men’s
semifinals. No. 3  Andy Murray  of Britain faces No. 6 Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic in the other.  Williams, who has not dropped a set in the tournament, won
32 of 40 points on her serve and never faced a break point in
the match.  “I think she is incredible,” said Errani, 25, who had
never gotten past the third round of the U.S. Open until this
year. “When she play like this, I think she’s best player in
the world.”  Azarenka-Williams Record  Azarenka, who needed two hours, 42 minutes to win 3-6, 6-2,
6-4 against 2006 champion Sharapova, has lost nine of her 10
career matches against Williams.  Williams had 24 aces while defeating Azarenka 6-3, 7-6 (8-
6) in the Wimbledon semifinals in July, and then beat her 6-1,
6-2 in the semifinals of the London Olympics last month.  “I definitely need to find something to surprise her,
because she’s in a great form and feeling really confident right
now,” Azarenka told reporters. “She has everything on her
side.”  Azarenka, who had never advanced beyond the fourth round of
the U.S. Open until this year, had no aces and five double
faults in her semifinal, and just one winner in the first set.
Sharapova also had more double faults (10) than aces (8) in a
match between two women who accompanied every stroke with a
shriek.  Azarenka, who now is 12-0 in three-set matches in 2012,
will try to become the first woman since  Martina Hingis  in 1997
to win the Australian Open and U.S. Open in the same year.  Sharapova, 25, was trying to become the first woman since
Belgian  Justine Henin  in 2006 to reach three Grand Slam finals
in a year. She won the French Open and lost in the Australian
Open final to Azarenka.  ‘It’s Frustrating’  “It’s frustrating, but it’s the game of tennis,”
Sharapova said in a news conference. “Just making too many
errors and not putting too much pressure on her.”  Brothers Bob and  Mike Bryan  won their fourth U.S. Open
men’s doubles title with a 6-3, 6-4 victory against Leander Paes
and Radek Stepanek.  The Bryans moved into a tie with  Bob Lutz  and Stan Smith
for the most men’s doubles titles since the U.S. Open began
accepting professionals in 1968.  Bob Bryan  now is tied with  John McEnroe  for the most men’s titles, eight, of any player in the
professional era.  The American duo also surpassed the Australian doubles team
of  Todd Woodbridge  and Mark Woodforde with their 12th Grand Slam
men’s doubles title of the professional era.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in New York at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  