-- HTC Wins Dismissal of Patent Lawsuit Due to False Statements
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-09-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/htc-wins-dismissal-of-patent-lawsuit-due-to-false-declarations.html
HTC Corp. (2498) , the Taiwanese maker of
Desire, Sensation and One smartphones, won a court ruling
dismissing a patent infringement case against it after a judge
found the inventor made false declarations to patent officials.  U.S. District Judge William T. Hart in  Chicago  yesterday
ruled that Daniel Henderson, the founder of Intellect Wireless,
made false statements to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to
overcome prior art, or previous references, cited in opposition
to elements of his patents.  Henderson claimed HTC infringed patents covering technology
allowing a wireless device to receive and display caller
identification, pictures, video messages and multi-media
messaging services.  “This case presents not just one instance of a false
statement, but a series beginning in August and December of
2006,” Hart wrote in his opinion. The declarations were
“clearly intended” to defeat the prior art claims and were not
“withdrawn, corrected” or pointed out to patent examiners
before Henderson’s patents were issued, Hart wrote.  Raymond Niro, a lawyer representing Henderson in the case,
didn’t immediately return e-mail and phone messages seeking
comment on the ruling after regular business hours yesterday.  HTC, based in Taoyuan City, is trying to keep up with  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  after competition  halved  its
global market share to 4.5 percent in the first quarter from a
10.7 percent peak in the second quarter of last year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries. It recovered some
ground in the second quarter, increasing to 5.8 percent of
shipments.  HTC’s sales have missed analyst estimates for the last four
quarters, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Last month,
the company  forecast  third-quarter revenue that was as much as
22 percent below the average estimate.  The case is Intellect Wireless Inc. v. HTC Corp., 09-
cv-02945, U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  