-- Canada Severs Iran Diplomatic Ties on Terrorism Threat
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-09-08T03:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/canada-severs-iran-diplomatic-ties-on-terrorism-threat.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said his government suspended ties with Iran in part due
to an increasing risk to his country’s diplomats in the Middle
Eastern country.  “This is a regime that, among its many wrongs, does not
respect normal practices of diplomatic immunity,” Harper told
reporters today in Vladivostok, Russia, where he is attending
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Summit. “The risks to our
diplomats just keep going up, so ever since last year, we have
been scaling down our presence and I think this is the best
decision in terms of our ability to protect our people and
conduct foreign policy.”  Foreign Affairs Minister  John Baird  made the announcement
yesterday at APEC about the suspension of diplomatic ties,
saying  Canada  was designating  Iran  as a sponsor of terrorism.
Canada will close its embassy in Tehran and expel Iranian
diplomats from Canada, he said.  Iran is growing increasingly isolated over its nuclear
program, with the U.S. and the European Union going beyond four
sets of UN sanctions intended to stop the Persian Gulf nation’s
nuclear work. EU nations embargoed Iranian oil imports in July
and prosecutors are targeting institutions worldwide that use
the U.S. financial system to process Iranian transactions.  Harper and Baird cited Iran’s military assistance for
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s government, its refusal to
comply with United Nations nuclear resolutions, its threats
against  Israel  and its support for terrorist groups. In an e-
mailed statement following his comments to reporters, Baird said
Canada has no knowledge of any plans for a military strike
against Iran.  ‘All Options’  “Its nuclear program, its support for Assad, its anti-
Semitism, its support for terrorism, it just becomes worse and
worse and worse” in Iran, Harper said.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told U.S. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  on Aug. 1 that time “is running out”
for a peaceful solution to Iran’s atomic program. Israeli and
U.S. leaders have said repeatedly that “all options are on the
table” to contain Iran’s nuclear ambitions.  Iran has said its atomic work is intended only for civilian
purposes.  “Iran regards the use of nuclear, chemical and similar
weapons as a great and unforgivable sin,” Iran’s Supreme Leader
 Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  said Aug. 30. “This does not of course
mean forgoing our right to pursue use of nuclear power.”  The Swiss embassy has handled American interests in Iran
since 1981, a year after the U.S. ended diplomatic relations
with Iran following the taking of hostages at its embassy in
Tehran during the  Islamic Revolution .  ‘No Longer Safe’  Baird said that it’s “simply no longer safe to have
representatives” in Tehran.  Canada’s decision “sends a clear message to Iran and the
entire world,” Netanyahu said in a text message from his
office. “Canada’s determination is very important in showing
the Iranians that they can’t continue the race for atomic
weapons.”  Iran’s rial, linked to the  U.S. dollar , plunged last month
after the country said it would review its official  exchange
rate . Iranian inflation has quickened while the economy has come
under strain from the sanctions, and oil exports have dropped.
Prices of meat, rice and bread have spiraled.  Under a law enacted Dec. 31 in  Washington , institutions in
nations that don’t win exemptions may be cut off from the U.S.
financial system if they settle oil trades with Iran’s central
bank. The EU banned the purchase and insurance of Iranian oil
from July 1. About 95 percent of the world’s tankers were
insured by companies following EU law before the embargo.  Iran, the third-largest supplier in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, is pumping less crude than  Iraq 
for the first time in 20 years, OPEC said Aug. 9 in a monthly
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  