-- Canada Natural Gas Drops as Mild Weather Cuts Power-Plant Demand
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2012-09-07T19:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/canada-natural-gas-drops-as-mild-weather-cuts-power-plant-demand.html
Canadian natural gas dropped on
forecasts for moderating weather that may limit demand for the
fuel at  power plants  and expand a supply glut.  October gas in Alberta  slid 3.8 percent as MDA EarthSat
Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland, predicted mostly normal
temperatures in the central U.S. from Sept. 17 through Sept. 21.
Gas inventories totaled 3.402 trillion cubic feet in the week
ended Aug. 31, 11 percent above the five-year average, an Energy
Department report showed yesterday.  “The natural gas market has turned lower based on a short-
term cooling trend in temperatures,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New York, in a note to
clients today. “The larger seasonal cooling trend and rising
storage levels may also be having a hand in weakening the
price.”  Alberta  gas for October delivery fell 8.25 cents to C$2.115
per gigajoule ($2.05 per million British thermal units) as of
3:05 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet market. Gas
traded on the exchange is shipped to users in Canada and the
U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for October delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  dropped 9.4 cents, or 3.4 percent, to settle at $2.682
per million Btu. The futures have declined 10 percent this year.  The high in Chicago on Sept. 20 may be 66 degrees
Fahrenheit (19 Celsius), 8 below normal, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania. The high in  St.
Louis  may be 72 degrees, 7 lower than the usual reading.  Pipeline Flows  Electricity producers account for about 36 percent of U.S.
gas consumption, according to the Energy Department.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.3 billion cubic
feet at 2 p.m. New York time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 1.53 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.98 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s  British Columbia system 
at Kingsgate was 114 million cubic feet. The system was forecast
to carry 1.9 billion cubic feet today. Estimated capacity was
2.02 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.74
billion cubic feet at 1:50 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  