-- Canada Second Quarter Labor Productivity Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-09-07T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/canada-second-quarter-labor-productivity-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s business sector labor productivity report for
the second quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  The labour productivity of Canadian businesses fell 0.4% in
the second quarter, after no change in the previous quarter. It
was the first decline in a year.  In the second quarter, Canadian businesses maintained the
same rate of growth in real output as in the previous two
quarters while increasing hours worked.  The real gross domestic product of businesses rose 0.5% in
the second quarter, echoing the results observed in the previous
two quarters. In contrast to the situation in the first quarter,
goods-producing businesses significantly outperformed services-
producing businesses in output growth in the second quarter.  At the same time, hours worked in the business sector
continued their upward trend, increasing 0.9% in the second
quarter. Two-thirds of the industry sectors posted gains during
the quarter. Hours worked in goods-producing businesses rose
1.4%, after remaining flat the previous quarter, while hours
worked in the services-producing industries were up 0.7%.
Construction and the finance and insurance sector were largely
responsible for the overall increase.  Both goods-producing businesses and services-producing
businesses experienced declines in productivity in the second
quarter.  In the goods-producing businesses, productivity fell 0.5%
in the second quarter, the first decrease in a year. Except for
agriculture (+0.6%), the productivity of each goods-producing
industry declined in the second quarter. The sector’s largest
decline was in mining and oil and gas extraction (-2.3%).  In the services-producing businesses, productivity
decreased 0.4% in the second quarter, after edging down 0.1% the
previous quarter. The largest contributors to the decline were
the finance and insurance (-1.6%) sector and transportation and
warehousing services (-1.7%).  In the  United States , the productivity of American
businesses grew by 0.6% in the second quarter, after falling
0.2% in the first quarter.  In Canadian businesses, labour costs per unit of production
were up for a third consecutive quarter, rising 0.7% in the
second quarter.  The increase in unit labour costs in the second quarter
reflected the 0.3% rise in hourly compensation combined with
lower productivity. In the first quarter, the quarterly growth
rate of hourly compensation in Canada was 0.5%.  After one quarter of appreciation, the average 0.9% decline
in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the American
currency in the second quarter pushed Canadian businesses’ unit
labour costs in US dollars down 0.2%. It was the third decrease
in the past four quarters.  By comparison, American businesses’ unit labour costs were
up 0.3% in the second quarter, after increasing 1.5% in the
first quarter.  Note to readers  With this release, data were revised back to the first
quarter of 2012 at the aggregate level and to the first quarter
of 2011 at the industry level.  The historical revision to the Canadian National Accounts
is scheduled for release beginning in October. For more
information, consult the National economic accounts website.  The term “productivity” in this release refers to labour
productivity. For the purposes of this analysis, labour
productivity and related variables cover the business sector
only. Labour productivity is a measure of real gross domestic
product (GDP) per hour worked. Unit labour cost is defined as
the cost of workers’ wages and benefits per unit of real GDP.  All the growth rates reported in this release are rounded
to one decimal place. They are calculated with index numbers
rounded to three decimal places, which are now available on
CANSIM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  