-- Canada Too Dependent on U.S. for Trade, Prentice Says
-- B y   P a u l   B a d e r t s c h e r   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-09-07T01:20:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/canada-too-dependent-on-u-s-for-trade-prentice-says-1-.html
Canada  must diversify its trade
toward Asia because it has become too reliant on the U.S.,  Jim Prentice , vice chairman of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
said.  ’’The United States has long been, and will always be, a
core trading partner,’’ Prentice said at the Bloomberg Canada-
Asia Conference in  Vancouver . ’’But we are too dependent on
them. Name me a single, great trading nation that has only once
customer. Quite simply, there aren’t any.’’ Expanding Canadian
markets to Asia and elsewhere will help cushion economic
downturns in the U.S. and risks of having projects like
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline to the Gulf Coast
hitting regulatory road blocks, Prentice said. Currently less
than 10 percent of Canadian exports go to Asia, he said.  Canadian energy companies are pushing to export both oil
and natural gas to China,  Japan  and other Asian markets by
expanding pipelines and terminal facilities in British Columbia
to connect the fossil fuel producing areas of that province and
the oil sands of Alberta.  ’’The hard truth is that many significant challenges remain
in China and elsewhere throughout Asia,’’ said Prentice, a
former industry minister. ’’We’re barely on the radar.’’  Canada has fallen behind much of the rest of the world in
trade and trade policy, Prentice said. Canada’s share of the
world export market dropped to 2.5 percent from 4.5 percent,
while Australia doubled its share of world trade over the the
past 10 years, he said.  West Coast  To jump-start trade with Asia, Canada needs to conclude a
Canada- China  investment accord, develop other new trade deals
across Asia and develop energy outlets on the west coast.  “We need to ensure we keep our eye on the ball and achieve
west coast access for our oil and natural gas,” Prentice said.
“This is for many a topic of intense sensitivity, but it is
also a matter of extreme economic importance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Badertscher in Ottawa at 
 pbadertscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  