-- Canada’s Review of Cnooc-Nexen Deal Sparks Transparency Demands
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-09-07T04:39:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/canada-s-review-of-cnooc-nexen-deal-sparks-transparency-demands.html
The Canadian review of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s
$15.1 billion bid for  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  triggered calls for simpler
foreign-investment rules as government-controlled Chinese
companies account for a rising share of Asian takeovers.  “What the government should do is sit down and either pick
the sectors that are going to stay Canadian or pick the actual
companies,” Ian Telfer, chairman of  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s
second-largest gold miner by market value, said yesterday at the
Bloomberg Canada-Asia conference in Vancouver. “Let everyone
know what those rules are and then allow foreigners to make bids
for other ones.”  Chinese investment in Canada’s resources sector has topped
C$16 billion ($16.3 billion) since 2009, even as bilateral
cooperation remains muted partly because of “institutional
hurdles,” said Chinese Ambassador Zhang Junsai.  “Priority should be given to enhancing transparency,
effectiveness and predictability of investment regulation,”
Zhang said at a Sept. 5 conference in Calgary hosted by Chinese
state-owned PetroChina Co.  With its bid for Calgary-based oil and natural gas producer
Nexen, Cnooc will become the largest Asian spender among
completed and pending acquisitions in  Canada  in the past decade,
with spending of $20.1 billion. Chinese state-owned companies
account for 62 percent of Asian investment in mergers and
acquisitions in Canada in the same period, according to figures
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Litmus Test’  Canada’s review of Cnooc’s bid for Nexen is a gauge of the
country’s receptiveness to Chinese investment, Howard Balloch,
61, chairman of the Asian division of investment bank Canaccord
Financial Inc., said yesterday at the Vancouver conference.  “It’s a litmus test,” said Balloch, a former ambassador
to  China .  The Nexen and Cnooc approval process “will be seen in
China as an indication of how open the Canadian economy is for
major energy investments,” Balloch said.  Canaccord advised on the C$2.2 billion takeover of Calgary-
based oil and gas producer Daylight Energy Ltd. by  China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  last year.  Chinese companies are moving cautiously to increase their
presence in Canada’s energy sector and are considering larger
investments after the Daylight acquisition, the “first 100
percent takeover,”  Wenran Jiang , 56, an associate professor of
political science at the University of Alberta in  Edmonton , said
at the Bloomberg conference.  ‘Open for Business’  “The Chinese are moving forward slowly,” said Jiang, who
is also an adviser to the Alberta government on China. “When
the prime minister went to China in February actively courting
Chinese investment, I think the signal was very clear to the
Chinese that Canada is open for business, and some of the upper-
scale investments could be accommodated.”  On Aug. 29, Cnooc applied for Canadian approval of the
deal, setting in motion a 45-day review period the federal
government can extend another 30 days to mid-November.  The government must review foreign takeovers with asset
values greater than C$330 million to ensure they provide a “net
benefit” to the nation.  The Canadian government may require foreign state-owned
companies to make commitments, or “undertakings,” in
acquisitions of Canadian companies. State-controlled companies
are expected to “operate on a normal commercial basis,”
Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver said at a press conference
on Sept. 4. “That’s part of the consideration in determining
the net benefit to Canada.”  ‘Different Category’  The fact that Cnooc is a state-owned company is among a
“range” of elements being considered in Canada’s review of the
bid for Nexen, Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said at the
Vancouver conference. Such ownership makes it “a different
category under the act” and different from “genuine private”
investments, he said.  Cnooc confirmed in a circular to Nexen shareholders set to
vote on the deal on Sept. 20 that it would make Nexen’s Calgary
office its headquarters for North and Central America
operations, retain Nexen management and employees, maintain
spending levels, list on the Toronto Stock Exchange and continue
Nexen’s charitable and community involvement.  ‘Clear Framework’  Foreign investors are playing a guessing game on what
constitutes the net-benefit test, since the federal government
rejected  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40 billion hostile takeover bid
for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  in 2010, said Don
Campbell, senior adviser at law firm Davis LLP in  Vancouver  and
co-author of a  report on Canada-Asia trade  released yesterday by
the Asia Pacific Foundation of Canada.  The federal government hasn’t lived up to its commitment
after the Potash Corp. rejection to put out a “clear
framework” on foreign-investment rules, Campbell said in a
Sept. 5 telephone interview from Vladivostok,  Russia , ahead of
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting this weekend.
“Asians have been looking for more clarity in terms of an
expressed framework, rather than an indefinite term of what
national interest would be,” he said.  Asian acquisitions of Canadian companies and assets,
pending and complete, have increased in six of the last 10 years
to $33.3 billion so far this year, from $777 million in 2002,
figures compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Vancouver at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  