-- Canada Dollar Rises to 1-Year High as Jobs Gain Fuels Rate Bets
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-09-07T21:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/canadian-dollar-rises-as-jobs-gain-fuels-rate-increase-wagers.html
The Canadian dollar rose to a one-
year high versus its U.S. peer as domestic employers added more
jobs than forecast, bolstering speculation  Bank of Canada 
Governor  Mark Carney  will raise its target interest rate.  Canada’s currency added to a weekly gain as U.S. government
reports showed payrolls increased less than projected in August
and the  unemployment rate  declined as more Americans left the
 labor force , boosting wagers the  Federal Reserve  will soon seek
to stimulate economic growth with asset purchases under its
quantitative-easing strategy. Commodities and stocks rallied on
increased risk appetite. Carney, in a speech near Calgary, said
a raw-materials boom wasn’t hurting the nation’s economy.  “The Canadian number is above expectations,”  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist at Bank of Nova Scotia’s
Scotiabank unit in Toronto. “The U.S. number is a
disappointment, which increases the risk of quantitative easing,
which is positive for risk assets.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.4 percent to 97.86
cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched 97.66,
matching the strongest since Sept. 2, 2011, and gained 0.8
percent this week. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0219.  Calling Scotiabank’s strategists “medium-term bulls” on
the loonie, Sutton said the break below 98.00 would open up
96.77. The last time the loonie traded that strong was Aug. 4,
2011.  Crude-oil futures advanced for a third day, gaining 0.8
percent to $96.30 a barrel in New York after rising as much as
1.1 percent. Futures have risen 25 percent from the year’s low
of $77.28 a barrel on June 28. Oil is Canada’s biggest export.  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index (SPX)  gained 0.4 percent and is
up 2.2 percent this week.  Futures Bets  The  difference  in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop, known as net longs, rose to
66,555 contracts in the five days ended on Sept. 4, up from net
longs of 60,936 a week earlier, according to Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The economy is chugging along quietly,” Firas Askari,
head currency trader in Toronto at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , said in a
telephone interview. “The Canadian jobs number is lukewarm, at
best, but we’re not seeing a huge slowdown in Canada, either.”  Employment rose by 34,300 following the July decrease of
30,400,  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa, and the jobless
rate was unchanged at 7.3 percent. Economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News  projected a 10,000 gain in jobs and 7.3 percent
unemployment, according to median forecasts.  A ‘Caricature’  Speaking at the Spruce Meadows Round Table, Carney rejected
the idea that the country is suffering from so-called Dutch
disease, referring to the Netherland’s uneven economy in the
1960s after natural-gas deposits were discovered in the  North
Sea . The resulting rise in its currency was blamed for the
demise of Dutch manufacturing.  Carney said any Dutch disease accusation a “caricature”
that would limit the beneficial development of the Alberta oil
sands, he said in the text of the speech.  Canada’s dollar has strengthened 60 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  over the past decade and the central bank’s  index  of
commodity prices has more than doubled, while manufacturing
employment has fallen to 1.8 million from 2.3 million, or by 22
percent.  The Bank of Canada remains hawkish on  interest rates ,
reiterating Sept. 5 that borrowing costs may need to rise to
prevent inflation from accelerating. Carney said “some modest
withdrawal of the present considerable monetary policy stimulus
may become appropriate.”  The central bank’s key interest rate has been 1 percent for
two years, the longest pause since the 1950s.  Employment Outlook  Canada’s jobless rate will remain stalled over the next
year, ending 2013 at 7.2 percent, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  said in an
interview with Bloomberg yesterday in Vancouver there will be
“sluggish” growth for an extended period in much of the global
economy.  The  U.S. economy  added 96,000 workers last month following
a revised 141,000 rise in July that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in Washington.
The median estimate of 92 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a gain of 130,000. Unemployment unexpectedly fell to
8.1 percent, and hourly earnings were unchanged.  The Fed, which meets Sept. 12-13, bought $2.3 trillion of
securities from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of quantitative
easing. It also has kept its benchmark rate at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008, in the midst of the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression.  ‘Risk Rally’  The loonie decreased 0.6 percent today, the second largest
decline after the U.S. dollar’s 1.1 percent drop, among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Currency Indexes. The euro rose 0.3 percent and
Sweden’s krona led gainers with a 1.2 percent rally.  The Canada dollar is “lagging the broader risk rally and
may struggle a little to differentiate itself from the U.S.
dollar in the near term,”  Shaun Osborne , chief currency
strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities unit, wrote
in a note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in New York at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  