-- Canada July Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-09-07T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/canada-july-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
July building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  Municipalities issued building permits worth just over $6.8
billion in July, down 2.3% from June. This followed a month of
relative stability between May and June. The main factor in the
decline was lower construction intentions for both residential
and non-residential buildings, particularly in Ontario.  In the residential sector, the value of permits decreased
2.4% to $4.3 billion, following two consecutive monthly advances.
The decline was attributable mainly to lower construction
intentions in four provinces, led by Ontario, with Saskatchewan
a distant second.  In the non-residential sector, the value of permits fell
2.1% to $2.5 billion after a 9.0% decrease in June. Non-
residential permits declined in six provinces with Ontario and
Saskatchewan accounting for most of the drop.  Residential sector: Construction intentions down for both multi-
family and single-family dwellings  The value of permits for multi-family dwellings decreased
4.3% to $1.9 billion, following two consecutive monthly
increases. Construction intentions were down in seven provinces,
with Ontario posting the largest decline, followed by
Saskatchewan and Alberta. The value of multi-family permits
increased in British Columbia,  Nova Scotia  and Prince  Edward
Island .  Municipalities issued $2.5 billion worth of building
permits for single-family dwellings in July, a 0.9% decline
following two monthly advances. Most of the declines occurred in
British Columbia, Ontario and Saskatchewan. The value of permits
for single-family houses rose in five provinces, including
Alberta, Manitoba and Quebec.  Nationally, municipalities authorized construction of
19,139 new dwellings, down 4.9% from June. The decrease was
attributable to both multi-family dwellings, which fell 6.8% to
11,846 units, and single-family dwellings, which declined 1.6%
to 7,293 units.  Non-residential sector: Declines in the institutional and
industrial components  In July, the value of permits for non-residential
construction decreased for the second consecutive month.
Declines in the institutional and industrial components more
than offset gains in the commercial component.  In the institutional component, the value of permits fell
25.2% to $404 million, the second consecutive monthly decline
and the lowest level since February 2012. The decrease was
mainly the result of lower construction intentions for
educational institutions in Ontario and British Columbia and
government buildings in Saskatchewan and  Alberta .  The value of permits for industrial buildings decreased
3.7% to $462 million, following a 0.5% advance in June. The
decline was mostly the result of lower construction intentions
for manufacturing plants in Ontario, the value of which had
increased the previous month.  In contrast, Alberta and Quebec recorded the largest
increases. Alberta’s gain came from manufacturing plants,
utilities and transportation-related buildings. Quebec’s advance
was attributable to utilities and transportation-related
buildings.  In the commercial component, the value of permits rose 6.4%
to $1.7 billion, the fifth monthly increase since the beginning
of the year. The advance was largely a result of higher
construction intentions for a variety of commercial buildings.
These included retail outlets and theatre and performing art
centres in British Columbia, and recreational facilities in
Newfoundland and Labrador, Saskatchewan and  New Brunswick .  Provinces: Construction intentions down significantly in Ontario  In July, the total value of permits declined in six
provinces, led by Ontario, followed by Saskatchewan and Alberta.  After two consecutive monthly gains, Ontario recorded the
largest decrease, mainly as a result of lower construction
intentions for multi-family dwellings, institutional and
industrial buildings.  The decline in Saskatchewan, which was the second in a row,
originated from residential, institutional and industrial
buildings. Even so, the total value of permits in Saskatchewan
was 10.3% higher than the monthly average in 2011. Alberta’s
drop was attributable to institutional and commercial buildings,
as well as multi-family dwellings.  British Columbia posted the largest gain, a result of
growth in the value of permits for commercial buildings and
multi-family dwellings. The gain in Newfoundland and Labrador
was mainly attributable to higher construction intentions for
commercial buildings and single-family dwellings.  In Quebec, the value of permits for industrial and
institutional buildings was behind the increase, while in New
Brunswick, gains were reported in institutional and commercial
buildings, and single-family dwellings.  Permits value down in most census metropolitan areas  The total value of permits fell in 24 of the 34 census
metropolitan areas.  Toronto and Regina registered the largest decreases. In
Toronto, the decline was primarily attributable to lower
construction intentions for residential and institutional
buildings. Regina’s decrease originated from multi-family
dwellings and institutional buildings.  The largest advance occurred in  Vancouver  and Montréal. In
Vancouver, the gain was the result of growth in the value of
permits for commercial buildings and multi-family dwellings. In
Montréal, the advance was attributable to a large extent to
multi-family dwellings and industrial buildings.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends. ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11-010-x/2010003/part -
partie3-eng.htm)  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population
are very small, and their levels of building activity have
little impact on the total.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan
area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/ Quebec ) is divided into two
areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Data for the current reference month are subject to
revision based on late responses. Data have been revised for the
previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  