-- Carney Rejects Idea High Canada Dollar Causing `Dutch Disease'
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-09-07T15:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/carney-rejects-idea-high-canada-dollar-causing-dutch-disease-.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
rejected the idea the central bank has hurt domestic
manufacturers by allowing a commodity boom to drive up the
country’s dollar, calling it a “caricature” that would limit
the beneficial development of the Alberta  oil sands .  The prices of crude oil, Canada’s largest commodity
export, and other primary materials have been boosted over the
past decade by emerging-market demand that will continue for
years, Carney, 47, said in the text of a speech he’s giving
today near Calgary, the center of the country’s energy
industry. He will hold a press conference after the speech.  The country’s main opposition  New Democratic Party  has
said Canada should take steps to counter “ Dutch Disease ,”
which was the title of Carney’s speech today. Canada’s dollar
has strengthened 59 percent against the  U.S. dollar  over the
last decade and the central bank’s  index  of commodity prices
has more than doubled, while manufacturing  employment  has
fallen to 1.8 million from 2.3 million, or by 22 percent.  “The logic of Dutch Disease requires that we undo our
successes in order to depreciate our currency,” Carney said.
“Taken to its natural conclusion, this logic dictates that we
shut down the oil sands, abandon our resource wealth, have high
and variable inflation, run large fiscal deficits and diminish
our financial sector.”  The phrase Dutch Disease refers to the Netherlands’s
uneven economy after natural gas deposits were discovered in
the North Sea. The resulting rise in the country’s currency was
blamed for the demise of Dutch manufacturing.  Global Forces  The decline of domestic  manufacturing  is linked to global
forces, Carney said. Other industrialized countries have
experienced factory job and output losses, while higher
commodity prices explain about half of the appreciation of the
Canadian dollar, he said.  Canada hasn’t done transactions in the  currency market  to
influence the country’s  exchange rate  since 1998, a period that
includes moves to a record low and a record high. The central
bank’s policy restricts intervention to cases where foreign
exchange markets break down or when currency movements
“seriously threatened” long-term economic growth, according
to its website.  “The Bank does take the exchange rate into account in
setting policy,” Carney said. “The persistent strength of
the Canadian dollar has been one of the reasons why
monetary policy has been exceptionally accommodative for so
long.”  Weakening ‘Futile’  The central bank’s mandate is to meet a 2 percent
 inflation  target, Carney said, and weakening the currency would
be “futile,” Carney said.  “The outcome could be even worse if the Bank cannot
quickly re-establish its credibility after betraying
earlier commitments to Canadians,” he said, referring to
inflation.  The Bank of Canada’s  key interest rate  has been 1 percent
for two years, the longest pause since the 1950s. Monetary
policy remains tighter than in the U.S., where the benchmark
rate is in a range of 0 to 0.25 percent and Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is buying assets to boost growth.  Carney may also widen the gap between Canada’s monetary
policy and the rest of the Group of Seven nations, with a rate
announcement this week reiterating that tighter policy “may
become appropriate” as the economy moves toward full output.  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi  said
yesterday policy makers agreed to a program of unlimited bond-
purchases to regain control of  interest rates  in the euro area
and fight speculation of a currency breakup. The ECB also held
its benchmark rate at a record low of 0.75 percent.  ECB Announcement  “The Bank very much welcomes yesterday’s announcement by
the European Central Bank of significant new measures to
address convertibility risk and improve the transmission of
 monetary policy ,” Carney said.  “However, it will take some time to restore market
confidence, and it will take years for fiscal and structural
adjustments to work,” he said. “Moreover, the discussions
over the federal institutions that may be ultimately required
to support a durable monetary union are still in their
infancy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  