-- Catalonia Unveils Tourism Complex Backed by Caixa, Banuelos
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-09-07T16:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/catalonia-unveils-tourism-complex-backed-by-caixa-banuelos-1-.html
Catalonia’s regional government
unveiled plans for a $6 billion entertainment and tourism
complex backed by the  La Caixa  banking group and property
developer Enrique Banuelos.  The 1.5 million square-meter (4.92 million square feet)
complex with 12 hotels, dubbed “Barcelona World” will be built
near Tarragona on land adjacent to the  Port Aventura  theme park,
said a Catalan regional government official, who asked not to be
named in line with its policy, in a phone interview. The project
based around six different complexes inspired by countries
including the U.S.,  China , Brazil and Russia, will generate
20,000 jobs, the official said.  La Caixa and Veremonte Participacoes SA, a Brazilian firm
led by Banuelos, are among the backers of the project, said the
official, confirming details given at a news conference in
Barcelona today. Banuelos, a developer from  Valencia ,  Spain , saw
his Astroc Mediterraneo SA company surge tenfold in its 2006
initial public offering before it shriveled in value in a boom
to bust that symbolized Spain’s property crash.  A bid by Barcelona to lure  Las Vegas Sands (LVS)  Corp. to build a
casino and entertainment complex in the city expired in August,
Catalan President Artur Mas said in an interview with Catalunya
Radio yesterday. Madrid and Barcelona had been competing to lure
the investment by LVS.  La Caixa’s support for the venture is the form of providing
the land and Veremonte will have the option to buy it in two
years, said an official at La Caixa, who asked not to be named
in line with company policy.  La Caixa’s industrial holding company owns 50 percent of
Port Aventura. The group’s  CaixaBank (CABK)  SA unit is Spain’s fourth-
biggest lender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  