-- Chilean Peso Posts Biggest Advance Since July on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-09-07T19:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/chilean-peso-posts-biggest-advance-since-july-on-stimulus-bets.html
Chile ’s peso posted its biggest
weekly gain since July as speculation the U.S. will adopt more
stimulus measures boosted demand for higher-yielding assets and
the Andean nation’s central bank said it sees less need to
accumulate reserves.  The peso advanced 1 percent to 475.82 per  U.S. dollar  from
480.58 on Aug. 31, the biggest gain since the week ended July
27. It has strengthened 9.2 percent this year, the most among
all currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Copper, Chile’s main
export, rose to a 16-week high in  New York  today.  U.S. payrolls rose 96,000 in August, the Labor Department
said today in  Washington , trailing the 130,000 median forecast
of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The report fueled bets the
 Federal Reserve  will launch a third round of quantitative
easing, known as QE3, to spur economic growth.  “The U.S. employment figure came out quite bad and that
makes people speculate that a QE3 may be closer,” Alexis Osses,
the head of research at xDirect Chile Ltda., said in a phone
interview from Santiago. “As long as data from the U.S.
continues to be weak, the peso will continue to trend higher
toward 473.5 per dollar and if it breaks that level, it could go
to 470 per dollar.”  Chile’s central bank President Rodrigo Vergara said today
the monetary authority never rules out the option of intervening
in the peso. Policy makers must carefully weigh costs and
benefits of buying dollars, and the  exchange rate  isn’t out of
line with fundamentals, he said.  Accumulated Reserves  “One rationale for the past interventions was the
accumulation of reserves to build up for an eventual crisis,”
he told reporters. “We had a major accumulation in both 2008
and 2011, so today naturally that argument has less strength.”  The National Statistics Institute today reported that
prices rose 0.2 percent last month, less than the 0.3 percent
median forecast of 14 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Separately, data released by the central bank today showed Chile
had a trade deficit of $843 million last month, the biggest in
four years.  Short-dated breakeven inflation dropped the most in two
months today. The one-year breakeven inflation rate declined 17
basis points to 3 percent. The six-month breakeven inflation
rate fell 44 basis points to 2.95 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  