-- China’s Stocks Rise Most in Eight Months on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-09-07T07:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/china-s-stocks-rise-most-in-three-years-on-stimulus-bets.html
China ’s  stocks  rose, driving the
benchmark index to its biggest gain in eight months, as a
government plan to build more roads fueled speculation policy
makers will introduce more economic stimulus measures.  Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) , the nation’s biggest machinery
maker, jumped the most since February 2009 and  Anhui Conch
Cement (600585)  Co., the country’s largest cement maker, had its biggest
surge since July 2010 on optimism demand for their products will
rise.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) , China’s biggest carmaker, climbed to a
three-week high after sales increased in August.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  closed 3.7 percent higher at
2,127.76, the biggest advance since Jan. 17. The gauge rose 3.9
percent this week, the largest weekly gain since October. The
National Development & Reform Commission, China’s top planning
agency, said it approved plans to build 2,018 kilometers (1,254
miles) of roads, a day after it backed plans for subway projects
in 18 cities.  “The road and railway spending is similar to the large
stimulus plan that China had in the last financial crisis,”
said Wei Wei, an analyst at West China Securities Co. in
 Shanghai . “It seems the government is rolling out more
measures. There’s also speculation of more cuts to the reserve
ratio requirement cut this weekend.”  The CSI 300 Index added 4.5 percent to 2,317.18. The  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong
Kong  advanced 4 percent. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of
the most-traded Chinese shares in the U.S. added 1.8 percent to
87.83 yesterday.  Turning Positive  The announcements this week come as the government seeks to
bolster growth that eased to the slowest pace in three years in
the second quarter. China announced a stimulus package in 2008
worth about $586 billion at the time amid a global crisis that
saw 20 million migrant workers lose their jobs. Officials have
refrained from easing monetary policy since cutting  interest
rates  in June and July and lowering banks’ reserve requirements
three times from November to May.  Hao Hong, Bocom International Holdings Co.’s Hong Kong-
based managing director for research, said in an e-mail today
that he had turned positive on Chinese stocks on speculation the
government will take steps to boost growth. Hong, who was
previously cautious on equities, was the only strategist among
13 brokerages surveyed by Bloomberg at the start of the year to
forecast declines for Chinese stocks in 2012.  Concern the government isn’t doing enough to prevent a
deeper economic slowdown dragged the Shanghai Composite down 2.7
percent in August, the fourth month of declines. That’s the
longest streak since the five months through August 2004,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge has lost 4.4
percent this  quarter .  Economic Data  The new investment plans reflect that “Chinese policy
makers may consider implementing more fiscal measures to support
economic growth,” Alan Lam, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bank
Julius Baer & Co., wrote in an e-mailed note today. The firm has
$286 billion in client assets. “The market may be a bit over-
worried on the near-term economic outlook and policy
uncertainties in China. But the negative market perception on
Chinese equities is unlikely to change before policy makers take
steps to boost the economy and China’s economic data start to
improve.”  China is due to announce August inflation, producer prices,
industrial production and retail sales data on Sept. 9 and trade
data on Sept. 10.  A gauge of material and industrial shares in the  CSI 300
index (SHSZ300)  gained at least 5.7 percent. Anhui Conch Cement surged 10
percent to 15.07 yuan, the biggest advance since July 28, 2010.
Sany Heavy jumped 10 percent to 9.93 yuan, the biggest increase
since February 2009.  Taiyuan Heavy Industry Co. (600169)  climbed 9.9
percent to 3.12 yuan, the highest close since Aug. 9.  Policy Easing  The road projects include highways in Zhejiang and Xinjiang
provinces, according to statements posted yesterday on the
NDRC’s website. The approvals were given during the June-August
period. The agency also cleared plans for nine sewage treatment,
two waterway and five port and warehouse projects without
disclosing investments.  The central government’s announcements on subways and roads
this week mark a round of policy easing that may include reserve
ratio requirement cuts and fiscal stimulus, Ting Lu, economist
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, wrote in a note to clients
today.  Europe’s three-year sovereign debt crisis has crimped
Chinese exports and weakened industrial  output . European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday policy makers agreed
to an unlimited bond-purchase program aimed at controlling
regional interest rates and strengthening the currency of
China’s largest trading partner.  Investor Survey  “This exercise by the Europeans should allow a lot of
laggard markets, particularly the BRICs, to stage a medium-term
recovery,”  Christopher Palmer , who helps manage $2.5 billion of
assets as the director of global  emerging markets  for Henderson
Global Investors Ltd., said by phone yesterday from  London . “We
know growth has slowed in China but this will help bolster their
manufacturers and exporters that have been hurt by Europe’s
problems.”  Global investors are losing faith in China, giving the
country’s markets their worst rating in more than two years in
the latest Bloomberg poll. About a quarter of those surveyed say
they expect Chinese markets to be among the worst performers
over the next year.  That’s the highest negative reading the country has
received in the quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll since January
2010 and was second only to the 45 percent rating the European
Union received in the Sept. 4 survey.  Lower Valuations  The Shanghai Composite trades at 9.7 times estimated
profit, according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure’s 30-day volatility reading was at 12.2, compared with
this year’s average of 17. About 5.6 billion shares changed
hands in the gauge yesterday, about 28 percent lower than the
daily average this year.  SAIC Motor gained 3.7 percent to 12.36  yuan , the highest
close since Aug. 14. August vehicle sales rose 9.2 percent from
a year earlier, according to a statement to Shanghai’s stock
exchange.  Faw Car Co. (000800)  climbed 6 percent to 7.58 yuan, the
biggest jump since July 17. Beiqi Foton Motor Co. increased 5.2
percent to 6.33 yuan.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 1.7 percent yesterday,
the steepest rally in a month. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
surged 2 percent to the highest level since January 2008. Data
showed yesterday service industries in the U.S. expanded in
August at a faster pace than forecast and claims for
 unemployment benefits  fell to the lowest level in a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  