-- China Gets Worst Ranking in Global Poll Since 2010
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/china-gets-worst-ranking-in-global-poll-since-2010.html
Global investors are losing faith in
 China , giving the country’s markets their worst rating in more
than two years in the latest Bloomberg poll.  About a quarter of those surveyed say they expect Chinese
markets to be among the worst performers over the next year.
That’s the highest negative reading that the country has
received in the quarterly Bloomberg Global Poll since January
2010 and was second only to the 45 percent rating that the
European Union received in the Sept. 4 survey.  China “will suffer disproportionately from a global
slowdown in growth,” said Benjamin Dunn, a poll participant and
chief operating officer in Crested Butte,  Colorado , for
portfolio management company Alpha Theory, in an e-mail. It
“will be unable to prevent a hard landing” of its economy.  The U.S. again came out on top in the poll of 847
investors, analysts and traders who are Bloomberg subscribers:
46 percent say its markets will be among those offering the best
returns over the next year, the same as in the previous survey
in May. Close to three-quarters expect the  Federal Reserve  to
act next week to support the economy, either by extending its
pledge of low  interest rates , buying bonds, or by doing both.  Commodities in general and gold in particular gained favor
with investors in the poll. Eighteen percent of those surveyed
expect commodities to offer the highest returns over the next
year. That’s up from 13 percent in May and was second only to
stocks, which won the backing of a third of investors. Gold came
in third, with 16 percent, up from 11 percent in May.  Commodity Prices  “Monetary easing by global central banks will push
commodity prices higher,” Anuraj Benara, a poll respondent and
senior manager of institutional equity sales for SMC Global
Securities in Mumbai,  India , said in an e-mail.  Some investors also are turning bullish on crisis-racked
 Europe , though a greater percentage remains bearish. More than
one in five picked EU markets as among those that will offer the
best returns over the next year. That’s the highest reading for
the region since the poll began in 2009 and was second only to
the U.S. in the latest survey, which was taken before the
 European Central Bank  decided yesterday on an unlimited bond-
purchase program.  Brazil  was third and China fourth in the poll.  China was a favorite of global investors in the wake of
2008-09 financial crisis, as stepped-up  government spending  and
interest rate cuts powered the economy to a year-over-year
 growth rate  of 11.9 percent in the first quarter of 2010.  Enthusiasm Waned  Investor enthusiasm for the country has since waned as
growth has slackened, first in reaction to government efforts to
contain inflation and puncture a property price bubble, and more
recently due to a  slowdown  in Europe. Gross domestic product
rose 7.6 percent last quarter from a year earlier, the slowest
pace in three years.  More than three of five poll respondents described the
Chinese economy as deteriorating, up from less than one in three
in May. One-third rated the risk of a hard landing as high, up
from 23 percent in May. Another 44 percent saw it as a “medium
threat.”  Outgoing Communist Party chief Hu Jintao has held back on
steps to spur the slowing economy, raising the risk that the
country will miss its 7.5 percent growth target for this year.  “The changing of the political guard in China has slowed
the government’s stimulus response,” Kim Caughey Forrest,
senior equity analyst for Fort Pitt Capital Group in Pittsburgh,
who took part in the poll, said in an e-mail. “It’s pretty
clear that current leadership is not going to start new
programs, so the lag time is even longer on any stimulus.”  Standing Suffered  Hu’s standing with investors has suffered ahead of the
leadership change later this year. Two in five voiced pessimism
about the impact of his policies on the investment climate in
the country. That’s up from less than one in three in May and is
the highest negative reading since the poll began asking that
question two years ago.  “The political environment in China is more favorable to
hiding real problems” such as the growing level of non-
performing bank loans, said Kevin Guezo, who oversees foreign
exchange and interest rate derivative sales at Credit Mutuel
Arkea, a French cooperative bank in Lyon,  France . Guezo took
part in the poll and shared his views in an e-mail.  Investors also have turned more pessimistic about the
global economy. About half described it as deteriorating,
compared with 37 percent who said that in the last poll. Those
in the U.S. were the most downbeat.  Investor Assessments  The poll also reflects an erosion in investor assessments
of the  U.S. economy , with 22 percent saying the economy is
deteriorating, compared with 18 percent who said that in May.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is expected to
take further steps to promote growth at the central bank’s
meeting on Sept. 12-13, according to the poll. More than one in
three of those surveyed look for another round of quantitative
easing, or  bond buying , from the central bank.  Bernanke has made “it patently clear that the Fed will
take any action it feels it needs to to try and address its
mandate -- full employment and stable prices,” Forrest said.
“Given the economy has probably slowed, from all the signs we
observe in government and company data, we think he” will go
ahead with QE.  The Fed, which cut its target for the  federal funds  rate to
zero to 0.25 percent in December 2008, has said it expects to
keep the overnight interbank lending rate “exceptionally low”
at least through late 2014. A majority of investors polled do
not see the Fed raising rates before 2015, with 16 percent
saying an increase won’t come until 2016 or later.  Housing Market  The low rates have helped the housing market. The S&P/Case-
Shiller index of  home prices  in 20 cities climbed in June from a
year earlier, the first gain since September 2010, according to
a report from the group last month.  Forty-six percent of investors surveyed expect U.S. house
prices to increase further in the next six months. Only 14
percent see them falling.  Investor enthusiasm for stocks ebbed in the latest survey.
Thirty-seven percent say they plan to increase their holdings of
equities in the next six months, down from 40 percent in May and
the lowest since that question was first asked in 2010.  The increased caution is most evident when it comes to
Asian markets. One third forecast that the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index will be higher six months from now -- the least bullish
reading in almost two years. The stock  gauge  rose 0.1 percent
yesterday to 115.94 after falling on Wednesday to its lowest
level since July 27.  Gold Attractive  An increasing number of investors are attracted to gold,
according to the poll. A majority expect  gold prices  to be
higher in six months’ time, while about one in three intends to
increase their holdings of the yellow metal.  Gold prices rose to the highest since March yesterday after
the ECB’s bond-purchase decision. Futures for December delivery
gained 0.7 percent to settle at $1,705.60 an ounce at 1:45 p.m.
on the Comex in  New York .  Oil is also gaining favor among investors, according to the
poll. One in five plan to increase their exposure to oil in
their portfolios over the next six months, up from 14 percent in
May.  More than two in five see prices rising over that time
frame, roughly double the amount who project them falling. Crude
oil for October delivery advanced 17 cents to settle at $95.53 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  Twenty percent rate the risk of a Middle East war as high,
up from 15 percent in May.  As has been the case since October 2009, bonds were picked
as the asset class projected to have the worst returns over the
next year.  The Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted by Selzer & Co., a
 Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. The poll has a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.4 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  