-- China’s Swap Rates Increase Most in Two Weeks on Road Plan, ECB
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-09-07T08:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/china-s-swap-rates-increase-most-in-two-weeks-on-road-plan-ecb.html
China’s  interest-rate swaps  snapped
a four-day decline to rise the most in more than two weeks after
the government announced plans to boost infrastructure spending
and  Europe  stepped up efforts to tackle its debt crisis.  China approved proposals to build 2,018 kilometers (1,254
miles) of roads, its second major construction project unveiled
this week, according to statements posted yesterday on the
National Development & Reform Commission’s website. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday policy makers
agreed to an unlimited debt-purchase program to reduce  interest
rates  for struggling euro-area nations and fight speculation of
a breakup of the common currency.  “The ECB bond-buying plan means a better global growth
outlook,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist at Credit
Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “NDRC infrastructure approvals mean
the same and liquidity seems tighter after the central bank
didn’t sell enough reverse-repurchase contracts this week.”  The one-year swap, the fixed cost to receive the seven-day
repurchase rate, climbed eight basis points to 3.10 percent in
Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
biggest increase since Aug. 22. It fell three basis points since
Aug. 31, the second weekly decline.  The People’s Bank of China conducted 20 billion  yuan  ($3.2
billion) of seven-day reverse-repurchase agreements yesterday at
a yield of 3.35 percent, according to a statement posted on its
website. The central bank also injected 20 billion yuan via 14-
day contracts at 3.5 percent.  The  seven-day repo rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, dropped to 12 basis points this week and was
little changed today at 3.40 percent in Shanghai, a weighted
average shows. The yield on 2.91 percent government bonds due
April 2015 rose five basis points to 2.94 percent, according to
Chinabond data. It was little changed this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  