-- CIBC’s Prentice Decries Canada Lagging Asian Trade
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n ,   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-09-07T04:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/cibc-s-prentice-decries-canada-lagging-asian-trade.html
Canadian companies such as natural
gas producer  Encana Corp. (ECA)  risk being left behind in the race to
supply Asian markets as  Australia  and other countries get there
first.  “Canada needs to get in the game, stay in the game and
play the game hard,”  Jim Prentice , vice chairman of  Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce , told the Bloomberg Canada-Asia
Conference in  Vancouver  yesterday. “We are a minor player in
these growing Asian markets. We’re barely on the radar.”  The world’s 11-largest economy is playing catch-up with
other export-driven nations as Prime Minister  Stephen Harper 
pushes for greater access to Chinese markets at the Asia Pacific
Economic Cooperation summit in Vladivostok this weekend.  Canada’s share of world export markets has dropped to 2.5
percent from 4.5 percent, while Australia has doubled its share
of world trade over the past 10 years, Prentice said. Less than
10 percent of Canada’s exports and less than 4 percent of its
outward investments go to Asia, he said.  “Economies we spent years ignoring are now competing with
us – and winning,” the former industry minister said.  LNG Terminals  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and Encana, both involved in
developing separate LNG export terminals on Canada’s west coast,
highlight the risks Canada faces. While demand for gas is
growing faster in  China  than any other large market and prices
for the fuel are as much as seven times higher than in Canada,
it may be take another half decade before either company can
profit from their proposals.  “There is open demand and there is space to do that, but
obviously you have to turn up for the show within that time
window and be competitive,” said Victor Ojeda, who heads
Shell’s Canadian LNG efforts, at the Bloomberg conference.
“Going back to the competition, it is Australia, it is Qatar,
it is  Russia , it is  East Africa .”  Canada has many ingredients that make it attractive to
buyers of Canadian gas, including flexible and stable supplies,
as well as providing confidence that companies will deliver
their product, said Shinya Miyazaki, who heads a  Mitsubishi
Corp. (8058)  division that oversees the Japanese company’s Canadian gas
assets and LNG project.  Still, Canada may only manage to build one or two LNG
terminals compared to the half dozen being proposed, said Asish
Mohanty, a senior research analyst at resource consultancy Wood
Mackenzie in Houston, in a phone interview.  Lumber Market  “The Canadian projects are greenfield projects and there
is greater deliverability risk associated with them,” he said.
“There is no existing LNG infrastructure unlike the operating
re-gasification terminals in the U.S.,” technical challenges
building a pipeline across the Canadian Rockies and a lack of
skilled labor.  To be sure, some Canadian companies are making inroads in
to Asia. China is Canfor Corp.’s fastest-growing export market
for high-quality lumber, Wayne Guthrie, the Vancouver-based
company’s senior vice-president of sales and marketing, said
yesterday.  “It wasn’t very many years ago that we were completely
reliant -- 80 percent of our shipments went to the  United
States ,” said Guthrie.  Prentice said  Canada ’s traditional reliance on the U.S. may
have distracted it from opportunities abroad.  “The United States has long been, and will always be, a
core trading partner,” he said. “But we are too dependent on
them. Name me a single, great trading nation that has only one
customer. Quite simply, there aren’t any.”  Comprehensive Strategy  Canada needs a comprehensive strategy on trade with Asia to
be successful in capitalizing on the continent’s rising demand
for energy, food and minerals, according to a report on Canada-
Asia trade released by the Asia Pacific Foundation of Canada
yesterday. Resource competition in Asia is “urgent,” driving a
surge in investment particularly by state-owned companies, in
global resource development.  Economic opportunities in China may be a one-time chance
for Canada, said Ian Telfer, chairman of Vancouver-based
 Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s second-largest gold producer by
market value.  “I expect that economy to grow as far as the eye can
see,” he said yesterday at the Bloomberg conference. “They
have many people moving from poverty levels to almost middle-
class levels and that is when your economy grows the fastest and
that is when you use the most commodities. The wealth creation
that’s occurring in China has never occurred before and may
never occur again.”  For Harper, who will discuss trade with leaders including
Chinese President  Hu Jintao , Asian exports may help Canada
cement its aspirations to be an “energy superpower” and
maintain its role as one of the world’s largest economies.  “The big possibilities in terms of trade growth really are
in  Asia ,” said Harper at the Bloomberg Conference. “I believe
that we’re going to see extended sluggish growth in much of the
world, including many of the places that are the traditional
markets for Canadian products.”  Prentice said Canada “must” achieve west coast access for
oil and natural gas. “This is for many a topic of intense
sensitivity but it is also a matter of extreme economic
importance,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  