-- McIlroy Tied for BMW Championship Lead, Woods Trails by 1 Stroke
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-09-07T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/mcilroy-tied-for-bmw-championship-lead-woods-trails-by-1-stroke.html
Rory McIlroy is in a four-way tie
for the lead going into today’s second round at golf’s BMW
Championship, where play will begin early because of the threat
of bad weather.  McIlroy, who won the second of the four U.S.  PGA Tour 
playoff events on Sept. 3, is at 8 under par alongside  U.S. Open 
champion  Webb Simpson , Bo Van Pelt and Canada’s Graham DeLaet.  Tiger Woods , who is paired to play with McIlroy in the
opening two rounds, and  Vijay Singh  are one stroke behind the
leaders after both players shot 7-under-par 65 in yesterday’s
first round at Crooked Stick Golf Club.  “I’ve always enjoyed playing with Tiger,” McIlroy told
reporters. “Every time that we’re paired up, we seem to have a
good time.”  Because of heavy rain this week at the course in Carmel,
Indiana, players were permitted to pick up their ball, clean it
and replace it on the fairways yesterday. The soft conditions on
the opening day allowed 60 of the 70 players to score even par
or better.  Play will begin at 8 a.m. local time today, almost three
hours earlier than planned, to avoid the threat of thunderstorms
in the afternoon.  McIlroy’s win at the Deutsche Bank Championship four days
ago came three weeks after he captured the  PGA Championship , his
second major title after the 2011 U.S. Open. The latest victory
for the 23-year-old from Northern Ireland was his fifth on the
PGA Tour and third this year on the world’s richest golf
circuit.  Following a one-week break after the BMW Championship, the
top 30 players on the points list will contend for the FedExCup
title and the champion’s $10 million bonus at the Tour
Championship at East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 