-- Cleary Gottlieb, Latham, Proskauer: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-07T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/cleary-gottlieb-latham-proskauer-business-of-law.html
Cleary Gottlieb  Steen & Hamilton LLP
opened an office in  Abu Dhabi  yesterday after receiving a
license from the Abu Dhabi Executive Council. Partner Gamal
Abouali, who was based in Paris, has relocated to Abu Dhabi to
head the office.  The firm’s  Middle East  practice, which counts among its
clients Orascom Telecom Holding SAE, Emirates Telecommunications
Corp. and the National Bank of Abu Dhabi, has about 20 partners
and counsel based in  London , Paris,  New York  and Milan, the firm
said.  “For several decades now we have represented both
corporate and sovereign clients in many of the most important
transactions in the Middle East and North Africa,” Cleary
Gottlieb managing partner Mark Leddy said in a statement. “Our
Abu Dhabi office will enable us to better serve our clients
based in the Middle East as well as those who have interests in
the region.”  Abouali’s practice focuses on capital markets transactions,
mergers and acquisitions, privatization and  project financing .
He represented Wind Telecom SpA in its combination with
VimpelCom Ltd. and the Ministry of Oil of the Republic of  Iraq 
in connection with the Basrah Gas Project.  “Gamal’s broad range of practice, his insightful
understanding of the region, his appreciation for the local
business environment and his fluency in the main business
languages of the region make him well suited to head our new
office,” Leddy said.  Cleary Gottlieb has about 1,200 lawyers at 15 offices
around the world.  BuckleySandler Opens Office in California’s Orange County  Financial-services and government-enforcement law firm
BuckleySandler LLP has opened an office in  California ’s Orange
County. The firm also has offices in  Washington ,  Los Angeles  and
New York.  “We opened an office in  Irvine  to provide our many Orange
County and Southern California-based clients with on-the-ground
expertise drawn from our extensive financial services
regulatory, enforcement and litigation defense capabilities,”
BuckleySandler Chairman Andrew L. Sandler said in a statement.
“The office’s close proximity to two of the most active federal
and state courts will further benefit the firm’s clients.”  BuckleySandler represents nine of the 10 biggest mortgage
originators and the 10 largest mortgage-servicing companies in
the U.S., the firm said. The Orange County office will give
California clients access to lawyers with a deep understanding
of the laws and regulations and regulatory expectations
associated with the mortgage industry, the firm said.  Clinton R. Rockwell, the partner in charge of the firm’s
California offices, said in a statement that Los Angeles
partners John Redding and John Stoner will spend time in the new
office.  The firm has more than 150 lawyers in its four U.S.
offices.  Deals  Realty Income to Acquire American Realty for $1.9 Billion  Realty Income Corp. (O)  agreed to buy  American Realty Capital
Trust Inc. (ARCT)  for $1.9 billion in stock, the second-largest
acquisition of a U.S. real estate investment trust announced
this year.  American Realty stockholders will receive 0.2874 of a
Realty Income share for each share they own, the equivalent of
$12.21 a share, the companies said in a statement yesterday.
That’s about 2 percent more than New York-based American
Realty’s closing price Sept. 5. The companies valued the
transaction at $2.95 billion, including debt.  Latham & Watkins LLP advised Realty Income. Proskauer Rose
LLP served as legal counsel to American Realty Capital Trust.  Latham’s corporate team was led by partners William Cernius
in Orange County and Paul Tosetti in Los Angeles, with partner
Julian Kleindorfer in Los Angeles. Advice was also provided on
finance and real estate matters by partner David Meckler in
Orange County, on environmental matters by partner Christopher
Norton, on employee benefits and compensation matters by partner
David Taub in Los Angeles, on tax matters by partners Michael
Brody and Ana O’Brien in Los Angeles, and on litigation matters
by partners Miles Ruthberg in Los Angeles and Michele Johnson in
Orange County.  Proskauer Real Estate Capital Markets Group co-head Peter Fass, along with partner Jeff Horwitz, who heads the firm’s
private equity real estate practice, led a team of lawyers that
include partners Steven Lichtenfeld, Daniel Ganitsky, Andrew Bettwy, corporate; Leslie Loffman, tax; Ira Bogner, employee
benefits; Eric Remensperger, real estate; and Jonathan Richman,
litigation.  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP represented
Goldman Sachs & Co., the financial adviser to American Realty
Capital Trust. The Fried Frank team included corporate partners
Philip Richter and David Shine.  The proposed deal will add 501 properties to Realty
Income’s portfolio, bringing its holdings to more than 3,250
buildings, John Case, the Escondido, California-based company’s
chief investment officer, said in the statement. The transaction
would increase rental revenue from tenants with higher credit
ratings, such as  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , and allow Realty
Income to diversify by reducing revenue from retail real estate
to 77 percent from 86 percent.  Realty Income said the deal would immediately add to its
funds from operations, a measure of  cash flow  used by REITS, and
boost its dividend. The transaction is expected to be completed
by the first quarter of 2013.  For more, click here.  Moves  Partner Moves Abound This Week, Especially in Washington  Now that summer is over and Labor Day behind us, law firm
partners were on the move this week, particularly in Washington.
There also were moves in other U.S. cities and in London and
 Asia .  Reinsurance attorney Mary Lopatto joined Cozen O’Connor as
a member of the global insurance group in the Washington office.
She came from Chadbourne & Parke LLP, where she was the managing
partner of that firm’s Washington office, Cozen said.  Reed Smith  LLP added Victoria Holstein-Childress as a
partner in its financial industry group in the Washington
office. She was formerly a partner in the financial services
litigation group of Davis Wright Tremaine LLP’s Washington
office, Reed Smith said.  Paul Rubin joined Ropes & Gray LLP’s Life Sciences Practice
in Washington. He was most recently co-chair of the FDA Practice
Group and head of the Transactional Risk Assessment Practice
Group at  Patton Boggs LLP .  Bingham McCutchen LLP added Clara Poffenberger, former
Exxon Mobil Corp. counsel on environmental and safety law, as a
partner in its environmental,  land use  and natural resources
practice group in Washington.  King & Spalding LLP recruited Boyd Cloern as a partner in
its Washington office as the firm continues to expand its patent
litigation practice across the U.S. Cloern joined from Bingham
McCutchen.  The Washington office of global law firm K&L Gates LLP
added Stuart B. Nibley as a partner in the government contracts
and procurement policy practice. Nibley joined from Dickstein
Shapiro LLP.  Manatt, Phelps & Phillips LLP hired litigator Robert Shulman as a partner in the insurance recovery practice group in
the firm’s Washington office. Shulman joins from Kasowitz Benson
Torres & Friedman LLP, the firm said.  Manatt also hired H.H. Sean Wee this week in the firm’s New
York office as a partner in the corporate practice. Wee moves to
Manatt from Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP in New York.  Ronie Schmelz joined Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP as a
partner in the firm’s Insurance and Reinsurance Department. She
will divide her practice between the firm’s offices in Los
Angeles and New York. Previously, Schmelz was a partner in the
Los Angeles office of Sidley Austin LLP.  Bruce G. Chapman joined Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton
LLP as a partner in the intellectual property practice group in
the firm’s Los Angeles office. Chapman joins from Connolly Bove
Lodge & Hutz LLP in Los Angeles, the firm said.  Gardere Wynne Sewell LLP announced that intellectual
property litigator Paul Storm joined the firm as a partner in
the Dallas office. Storm established his own IP firm in 2005 and
has more than 22 years of experience representing clients in
patent-infringement cases as well as copyright, trade secret,
and trademark disputes, the firm said.  Cozen O’Connor also added Steve Auten, former intellectual
property head of Novartis AG’s North America Generic
Pharmaceutical Division, to its Intellectual Property Group in
 Chicago .  John Meyers , who has almost 30 years of experience, joins
Barnes & Thornburg LLP in the Atlanta office as a partner in the
Labor & Employment Law Department. He was previously at Seyfarth
Shaw LLP.  McCarter & English LLP hired Heidi E. Opinsky as a partner
in the firm’s  Stamford ,  Connecticut , and New York City offices.
Before joining McCarter & English, Opinsky, who has more than 27
years of experience in family law matters, was a Family Law
partner at Fox Rothschild LLP in Connecticut and New York, the
firm said.  Nixon Peabody LLP expanded its  China  practice with the
addition of corporate partner Xueqing Linda Ji, who joins the
Boston office. She was previously vice chair of Foley & Lardner
LLP’s China practice, the firm said. At Nixon Peabody, she will
focus on cross-border business transactions involving the U.S.
and China.  Covington & Burling LLP announced the addition of Weishi Li
as a partner to its corporate team, further bolstering the
firm’s global transactional and IP capabilities in the life
sciences and technology sectors. Li will be based in  Shanghai 
when that office opens.  In London, bankruptcy and restructuring lawyer Paul
Atherton joined Kaye Scholer LLP as a partner in its London
office. Previously a partner with Kirkland & Ellis International
LLP in London, Atherton focuses on international insolvency and
restructuring processes with a particular emphasis on cross-
border matters and complex LBO restructurings.  Also in London, Eversheds LLP appointed SJ Berwin LLP’s
Lesley Farrell as a partner in its EU, Competition and
Regulatory Group, the firm said.  News  Consultant Says Law Firm Profits Dropping, Layoffs Ahead: Video  Kent Zimmermann, consultant to law firms for the Zeughauser
Group, talks with Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia about the
prospects for the legal-services industry in 2013 in this video.  Law firms have seen such a steep decline in demand for
corporate work in the past six months, that many large law firms
will face serious economic turbulence going into 2013,
Zimmermann said. Work is even off in Silicon Valley, thanks to
the less-than-stellar Facebook Inc. initial public offering. As
a result, Zimmermann says law firms plan to “get lean” by
reducing headcount in coming months.  Zimmermann also said that unless the economy improves by
mid-2013, three to five AMLaw 200 law firms may go out of
business.  Rothstein’s Wife Charged With Hiding $1 Million in Jewelry  The wife of Scott Rothstein, a disbarred  Florida  attorney
who ran a $1.2 billion  Ponzi scheme , illegally hid $1 million in
jewelry from U.S. authorities trying to seize his assets to
repay investors, prosecutors charged.  Kimberly Wendell Rothstein, 38, was charged with four other
people yesterday with lying after Internal Revenue Service
agents tried to confiscate the jewelry, including a 12-carat
yellow diamond ring. Rothstein amassed tens of millions of
dollars in real estate, cars, boats, luxury watches, jewelry and
sports memorabilia during his Ponzi scheme, authorities said.  Rothstein, who is serving a 50-year prison term, agreed in
November 2009 to plead guilty and forfeit his illegal gains.
When agents showed up on Nov. 9, 2009, Kimberly Rothstein held
back some jewelry, U.S. prosecutors said in court papers filed
in Miami and Fort Lauderdale. She and a friend sold some jewelry
and joined others in covering up their actions by lying during
bankruptcy proceedings, according to court papers.  “The integrity of our system of justice is based on the
truthfulness of every witness that participates in the
process,” Wifredo Ferrer, the U.S. attorney for the Southern
District of Florida, said in a statement. “When a witness lies
under oath or conspires to obstruct justice, the integrity of
our system of justice is undermined.”  Kimberly Rothstein was charged with Stacie Weisman, 49, and
Scott Saidel, 45, with conspiracy to commit  money laundering ,
obstruct justice and tamper with a witness. Eddy Marin, 50, and
Patrick Daoud, 54, were charged with perjury and conspiracy to
obstruct justice.  Prosecutors seek forfeiture of five diamond rings, 10
watches, two bracelets, four necklaces, five pairs of earrings,
50 gold bars, and various coins from the U.S.,  Canada ,  South
Africa ,  England  and China.  “Kim would like to take the opportunity to express her
disappointment, shame, and sadness in regard to all of the
victims” of her husband’s Ponzi scheme, David Tucker, an
attorney for Kimberly Rothstein, said in a telephone interview.
“She had no involvement or knowledge of his fraudulent
activity. She takes full responsibility for her actions in
regard to the charge filed today.”  The cases are U.S. v. Marin, 12-cr-60205, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale) and U.S.
v. Kimberly Wendell Rothstein, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Florida (Miami).  Chadbourne Law Firm Takes Former Dewey Space in Midtown Tower  Chadbourne & Parke LLP will relocate its headquarters to
Manhattan  offices  once occupied by Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the law
firm that sought bankruptcy in May, ending a two-year space
search.  The 20-year lease for more than 200,000 square feet (19,000
square meters) at 1301 Avenue of the Americas is the largest by
a Manhattan law firm this year, Chadbourne said in a statement.
The 45-story, 1.8 million-square-foot tower is a block north of
Rockefeller Center in Midtown.  Chadbourne has been searching for new headquarters since
2010, when its space at 30 Rockefeller Plaza was leased to the
accounting company Deloitte LLP. The law firm intends to build
“an office for the future” under a design by the Gensler
architectural firm, Andrew Giaccia, a Chadbourne managing
partner, said in the statement. The rent wasn’t disclosed.  The skyscraper is controlled by Paramount Group Inc., the
U.S. real estate unit of  Germany ’s Otto Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 