-- Clinton Said to Find Haqqanis Meet Foreign Terror Group Criteria
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-07T08:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/clinton-said-to-find-haqqanis-meet-foreign-terror-group-criteria.html
The Obama administration is likely
to tell Congress that the Haqqani network meets the criteria for
being declared a foreign terrorist group, three U.S. government
officials said, stopping short of saying such a designation
would be made immediately.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  has until Sept. 9 to
make a recommendation on blacklisting the Haqqani group, a
Taliban faction based in eastern Afghanistan and Pakistan’s
Waziristan region. It’s unclear whether labeling the unit as
meeting the criteria would have more than symbolic impact, given
its leaders have already been named terrorists, the officials
said on condition of anonymity because the talks were private.  U.S. and Afghan officials have blamed the Haqqanis for
high-profile attacks on coalition forces and targets in Kabul,
such as an assault last year on the U.S. Embassy. While
Democratic and Republican lawmakers have urged Clinton to act
against the Haqqani movement, analysts including  Lisa Curtis  of
the  Heritage Foundation  and  Bruce Riedel , a senior fellow of the
 Brookings Institution , say that doing so could further inflame
relations with ally Pakistan.  Citing four American officials it didn’t name, the  New York 
Times reported that the Haqqanis would be labeled a terrorist
group and that an announcement would be made today. Clinton is
on her way to Vladivostok in Russia for the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation summit.  Then-U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Admiral Mike Mullen testified last September that the Haqqani network “acts
as a veritable arm” of Pakistan’s intelligence services.  Insurgent Sanctuary  Nuclear-armed Pakistan, whose help the U.S. and Afghan
governments have sought to pursue reconciliation talks with the
main  Taliban movement , sees the Haqqanis as a tool for
protecting its interests in Afghanistan after American troops
withdraw by 2014, Curtis said in May.  Pakistani leaders have allowed an insurgent sanctuary in
North Waziristan “due to their concerns that Pakistan will be
left alone to confront an unstable, an unfriendly or an Indian-
influenced Afghanistan on its borders,” an April 30 U.S.
Defense Department report said.  Pakistani leaders including former Prime Minister  Yousuf
Raza Gilani  and Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar have rejected
claims of links between the Haqqanis and the country’s main
military intelligence agency. U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has pushed Pakistan to begin an offensive against
militants in North Waziristan.  Commander Killed  A blanket designation may make it easier for the Treasury
Department to take steps against Haqqani members who might not
have been individually designated presidential executive orders.  Afghan officials said last month that Badruddin Haqqani,
the network’s operational commander, was killed recently in a
drone strike in Pakistan’s tribal areas.  Badruddin Haqqani was in charge of kidnappings, and claimed
responsibility in 2008 for holding New York Times reporter David Rohde hostage until Rohde’s escape in June 2009.  Badruddin was the son of Jalaluddin Haqqani, the group’s
founder. His father and his brothers, Nasiruddin Haqqani and
Sirajuddin Haqqani, are all designated global terrorists,
according to the State Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Brunei Darussalam  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  