-- Clinton Blacklisting Haqqani Network as Terrorist Group
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-07T17:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/clinton-blacklisting-haqqani-network-as-terrorist-group.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
is blacklisting as terrorists the Haqqani Network, a militant
group responsible for some of the deadliest attacks on Americans
in Afghanistan.  Meeting a 30-day deadline set by Congress, Clinton informed
Congress today that the Haqqani Network, which operates partly
from  Pakistan , meets the criteria to be labeled as a foreign
terrorist organization.  The administration will label the Haqqanis terrorists on a
State Department blacklist as well as under a presidential
executive order, she said. The moves will expand the
administration’s powers to target the group’s finances and
supporters.  “The designation removes any lingering ambiguity in U.S.
policy regarding the Haqqani Network,” Shamila Chaudhary, a
Washington-based analyst at the Eurasia Group, said today in an
e-mail.  Blacklisting the group will criminalize “providing
material support or resources to, or engaging in other
transactions with, the Haqqani Network,” and will freeze “all
property and interests in property” of the Haqqanis under U.S.
jurisdiction or in the control of U.S. persons, Clinton said in
a statement released from Vladivostok,  Russia , where she arrived
to attend a summit.  Clinton signed paperwork certifying the Haqqanis meet the
criteria as a terrorist organization and stating her intent to
blacklist them, a process that takes several days. She took the
action today in Brunei before leaving for the Asia Pacific
Economic Cooperation summit, State Department officials said.  Internal Debate  The decision follows months of intense debate within the
White House, State Department, Pentagon, Treasury Department,
 Justice Department  and the intelligence community over the
merits and the timing of blacklisting the Haqqanis, according to
officials from different U.S. agencies who spoke on condition of
anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.  That the Haqqanis met the criteria to be blacklisted was
clear: they are foreign, they are terrorists, and they directly
threaten U.S. interests, several officials said before the
decision was made. What was harder to decide was whether it
would serve U.S. goals and give the administration useful tools
to designate them as a terror group -- a label that hasn’t been
applied as yet to the Taliban, who are closely associated with
the Haqqanis.  Another concern was how the label would affect U.S.
relations with Pakistan, which some U.S. officials have accused
of aiding the Haqqanis. Pakistan,  Afghanistan ’s nuclear-armed
neighbor, serves as a crucial supply corridor for the U.S. war
effort.  Pressuring Pakistan  The issue was discussed with Pakistan in advance of today’s
announcement, according to one of the U.S. officials and a
Pakistani official, both of whom asked not to be identified
discussing the private communications.  “Pakistan will undoubtedly come under more pressure to
target the Haqqanis,” Chaudhary said. The move “cannot force
Pakistan to take legal action against the network, but it opens
up a debate on Pakistan’s role as a state sponsor of terrorism.
Pakistan maintains links to the Haqqani Network and is reluctant
to take action against it because the network can be useful to
pursuing its security interests in Afghanistan after the NATO
withdrawal in 2014.”  One official said before the decision was made that the
administration had intended to blacklist the group at an
opportune moment to send a message to Pakistan that it must get
serious about cutting ties and squeezing the militants. By
setting a 30-day deadline, Congress effectively forced the
administration’s hand.  ‘Belated’ Action  Representative  Peter King , a Republican from  New York  who
heads the House Homeland Security Committee, said in an e-mailed
statement today that he welcomed the administration’s
“belated” designation of the Haqqani Network,which he said
makes it “imperative that the Pakistani government immediately
sever its ties with the Haqqanis.”  In an e-mailed statement today on the U.S. action, the
Pakistani Embassy in  Washington  said, “This is an internal
matter for the  United States . It is not our business. The
Haqqanis are not Pakistani nationals. We will continue to work
with all international partners including the U.S. in combating
extremism and terrorism.”  Risks Assessed  Opponents within the administration had argued that
slapping the Haqqanis with the label might hinder prospects for
engaging them in reconciliation talks aimed at taking them off
the battlefield and bettering the chances of peace following the
withdrawal of U.S. troops.  Those who prevailed countered that individual members of
the network who were willing to lay down their arms could be
disassociated from the label and be integrated into future
talks.  That might not be so simple, according to analysts such as
Chaudhary. The Haqqanis, who are closely affiliated with the
Taliban, “will likely have a say in how negotiations proceed if
they manage to gain steam again. The Haqqanis could push for the
designation to be removed as part of the confidence-building
process -- a move that would be extremely difficult for the U.S.
to do under the current circumstances,” Chaudhary said.  Drone Targets  The Haqqanis were already a leading target of U.S. combat
and drone operations, and individual leaders have been labeled
terrorists, allowing the Treasury to target their assets.  Advocates of blacklisting said that it would give the U.S.
new tools to target a vast web of funding and business
interests, from the  Persian Gulf  to Pakistan, and would send a
strong message about zero tolerance to the Pakistan government.  A dossier laying out evidence that the Haqqanis met the
criteria for blacklisting was delivered to Clinton several
months ago, according to two of the U.S. officials.  Clinton didn’t act on the package right away, the officials
said, because the U.S. was engaged at the time in sensitive
talks with Pakistan over reopening NATO supply lines into
Afghanistan. Blacklisting the Haqqanis -- a group that then-
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mike Mullen last
September called “a veritable arm” of Pakistani intelligence
and security forces -- might have further soured already damaged
relations and hurt prospects of a important deal on the supply
routes, U.S. officials said at the time.  Complicating Relations  Analysts including  Lisa Curtis  of the  Heritage Foundation 
and  Bruce Riedel , a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution 
in Washington, have said that designating the Haqqanis may
complicate relations with Pakistan.  “It is a good step, but it raises a larger question,”
said Riedel, a 30-year veteran of the Central Intelligence
Agency. Links between the Pakistani intelligence community and
the Haqqanis add to concerns about future U.S. economic and
military support for Pakistan, he said.  “Are we going to continue to provide arms and money to an
army that sponsors terrorists who kill our soldiers?” Riedel
said.  Pakistan, whose help the U.S. and Afghan governments have
sought to pursue reconciliation talks with the  Taliban movement ,
sees the Haqqanis as a tool for protecting its interests in
Afghanistan after American troops withdraw by 2014, Curtis has
said.  Pakistani leaders have allowed an insurgent sanctuary in
North Waziristan “due to their concerns that Pakistan will be
left alone to confront an unstable, an unfriendly or an Indian-
influenced Afghanistan on its borders,” an April 30 U.S.
Defense Department report said.  Denying Links  Pakistani leaders including former Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  and Foreign Minister Hina Rabbani Khar have rejected
claims of links between the Haqqanis and the country’s main
military intelligence agency. U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has pushed Pakistan to begin an offensive against
militants in North Waziristan.  Labeling the Haqqanis is “unlikely to reverse the progress
made in improving” U.S.-Pakistan ties, said Ikram Sehgal, a
Karachi-based military analyst, in a phone interview today. “In
Pakistan, it will be viewed as a requirement which the Obama
administration has to fulfill under Congress pressure.”  Relations with the U.S. that soured sharply with the
killing of  Osama bin Laden  on Pakistani soil have improved in
the last two months. Pakistan reopened routes used to supply
NATO troops in Afghanistan that were closed after a deadly U.S.
helicopter raid on Pakistani border posts.  The U.S. had already slapped the group’s leaders with
individual sanctions, and has long targeted the Haqqanis in
military operations and clandestine drone strikes. Last month,
Afghan and U.S. officials said a drone strike killed Badruddin
Haqqani, the network’s operational commander, in Pakistan’s
tribal areas. Badruddin was a son of Jalaluddin Haqqani, the
group’s founder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Vladivostok, Russia at   ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  