-- Colombian Peso Bond Yields Fall to Record Low on Rate-Cut View
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-09-07T20:36:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/colombian-peso-gains-to-one-month-high-on-fed-stimulus-bets.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds rose, pushing
yields to a record low, as speculation mounted that the central
bank will cut borrowing costs further to stimulate growth in the
Andean country.  The yield on 10 percent peso-denominated debt due July 2024
fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 6.55
percent, according to the central bank. That’s the lowest
closing level since the securities were first issued in 2009.  Policy makers voted unanimously to cut the benchmark
 interest rate  on Aug. 24 by a quarter percentage point to 4.75
percent as the weakening global economy damped export demand,
according to the  minutes  of the meeting released today. The
central bank maintained a 2012 growth forecast at a range of 3
percent to 5 percent, compared with the government’s forecast of
4.8 percent for this year.  “The minutes signal another rate cut,” said Alejandro Reyes, the head analyst at Ultrabursatiles SA brokerage in
Bogota. “The fact that the decision was unanimous and the
central bank expects the economy to grow at a slower pace than
what the government forecasts is an indication we may see
another cut” to 4.5 percent this year, he said.  The peso closed little changed at 1,800.09 per  U.S. dollar .
It earlier rose to 1,790.50, the strongest since Aug. 13, as
speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will opt for further
stimulus buoyed demand for higher-yielding, emerging-markets
assets. The currency gained 1.4 percent this week and is up 7.7
percent this year.  Dollar Purchases  President  Juan Manuel Santos  said today the Treasury will
continue to buy dollars in the  spot market  to stem the peso’s
rally, while asking that the central bank increase its own
purchases of the greenback.  “We will continue to implement the measures needed,”
Santos said in an e-mailed  statement . Gains in the peso are a
“constant worry” for the government, he said according to the
statement.  Santos’s comments echoed those of Finance Minister  Mauricio
Cardenas  who said yesterday the government will continue to
supplement the central bank’s dollar purchase program. The
government won’t announce the size of the Treasury’s dollar
purchases, Cardenas said.  Colombia’s central bank today bought $35 million in the
spot market, up from the minimum of $20 million a day the bank
has said it will buy until at least Nov. 2. On Aug. 24 Banco de
la Republica said it will boost its dollar purchases to $700
million by the end of September, or an average of $28 million a
day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  