-- Colombia’s Cardenas Says More Action Needed to Limit Peso Gains
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-09-07T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/colombia-s-cardenas-says-action-needed-to-limit-peso-gains-1-.html
Colombia ’s new finance minister said
the nation’s treasury should supplement actions by the central
bank to buy dollars and limit the world’s second biggest
currency rally this year.  “The national Treasury should intervene in the  currency
market ,” said  Mauricio Cardenas , who assumed his post four days
ago after predecessor Juan Carlos Echeverry resigned. He said
Colombia needs U.S. dollar purchases “to slow the revaluation
of the peso.”  The government won’t announce the size of the treasury’s
dollar purchases, he told reporters yesterday at a conference
for entrepreneurs in Medellin.  The peso has appreciated 7.7 percent this year against the
dollar, the second-biggest gain among world currencies tracked
by Bloomberg, amid record foreign direct investment and as
international investors seeking higher yields buy Colombian
securities.  Colombia seeks to help exporters by limiting gains in the
currency through dollar purchases. The nation’s central bank on
Sept. 5 bought $35 million in the  spot market , up from the
minimum of $20 million a day the bank has said it will buy until
at least Nov. 2. On Aug. 24 Banco de la Republica said it will
boost dollar purchases to $700 million by the end of September,
or an average of $28 million a day.  ‘Excess Cash’  “We should use the excess cash we have at this moment to
buy dollars and to save in external markets,” Cardenas said.
“We could even pay our external debt and reduce our external
financing needs.”  The government is maintaining its forecast that Colombia’s
gross domestic product will grow around 4.8 percent in 2012,
Cardenas said. Preliminary data shows the nation’s economy
expanded 4.7 percent in the second quarter, he said. He
predicted growth of 4.85 percent at an annual rate in the second
half of 2012.  Economic growth would be around 2 percentage points higher
without the nation’s civil war with Marxist guerrillas, Cardenas
said.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  announced this week that he
agreed to hold peace talks with the Revolutionary Armed Forces
of Colombia, or FARC, beginning with a meeting next month in
Oslo,  Norway . The talks come after a decade of military strikes
withered the insurgents’ ranks, including the high-profile
killings of top FARC commanders  Raul Reyes  in 2008 and  Alfonso Cano  in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  