-- Colombia Central Bank Warns of Slowing Global Growth Threat
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-09-07T15:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/colombia-central-bank-warns-of-slowing-global-growth-threat-1-.html
Colombia’s central bank voted
unanimously to cut the benchmark  interest rate  on Aug. 24 as the
weakening global economy damped export demand, according to the
minutes of the meeting released today.  The central bank reduced borrowing costs by a quarter point
for a second straight month as inflation close to the target
rate gives policy makers leeway to bolster economic activity and
employment. The bank cut the overnight rate to 4.75 percent
after reducing rates in July for the first time since 2010.  “Problems in  Europe  will probably continue to be
transmitted to other economies,” the bank said. “This
heightens the likelihood of an even weaker global growth in the
future. The weakening of the global economy affects the growth
of the Colombian economy through several channels.”  The central bank July 31 cut its forecast for 2012 growth
to a range of 3 percent to 5 percent, from 4 percent to 6
percent, and predicted expansion of 2 percent to 5 percent next
year. Policy makers maintained their 2012 forecast in today’s
minutes, while saying that growth slowed in the second quarter
and that indicators in the third quarter are giving “mixed
results.”  While  Colombia ’s annual inflation rate accelerated to 3.11
percent last month from 3.03 percent in July, it’s down from
3.73 percent at the start of the year. The central bank targets
inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.
Consumer prices rose 0.04 percent last month, in line with
economists’ estimates.  After last month’s meeting, the bank said it will buy $700
million by the end of September to help stem a rally in the
country’s currency.  Colombia’s peso has gained 6.2 percent this year, the
biggest gain of the world’s 31 most-traded currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the Hungarian forint and the Chilean peso, on
the strength of sustained foreign investment into the Andean
nation’s oil and mining projects.  To contact the reporters on this story: 