-- Coty Said to Renew Attempts to Buy Jequiti After Avon Bid Fails
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-09-07T13:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/coty-said-to-renew-attempts-to-buy-jequiti-after-avon-bid-fails.html
Coty Inc. (COTY) , the perfume maker that
dropped a takeover offer for  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  this year, has
revived attempts to acquire  Jequiti Cosmeticos , according to
three people familiar with the matter.  Brazil’s Grupo  Silvio Santos , which owns Jequiti, hired
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  to sell the brand, said the people, who asked not
to be named because the talks are private. Jequiti is valued at
about $500 million, the people said. Paris-based  L’Oreal SA (OR)  is
also interested in Jequiti, one of the people said.  Coty, the maker of perfumes by Beyonce Knowles and Heidi Klum, had been interested in Jequiti before offering more than
$10 billion to buy Avon, the worlds largest door-to-door
cosmetics seller, one of the people said. After Avon failed to
respond to the offer, New York-based Coty turned its sights back
to Jequiti, the person said.  In June, Coty filed to raise as much as $700 million in an
initial public offering. The company has been working to boost
revenue by entering new regions and expanding distribution
brands in emerging markets. Coty projects net revenue of more
than $4.5 billion in the fiscal year 2012, according to a
filing.  Coty and Jequiti would be a good pairing, said Vivienne Rudd, a personal-care industry analyst at Mintel International
in London. Both companies sell to the mass market and Coty wants
to enter Brazil, Rudd said.  “Brazil is the market where everyone is looking,” Rudd
said in a phone interview. “Jequiti is building its own
manufacturing plants, which would give Coty a manufacturing base
in Brazil.”  Representatives at Jequiti, Coty, Barclays and L’Oreal
declined to comment.  Coty, which holds perfume licenses for brands including
 Calvin Klein  and  Marc Jacobs , was founded in 1904 in Paris by
Corsican-born Francois Coty. The company helped develop perfume
into a mass product, with 36 million consumers two decades
later.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Welch in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  