-- Cuomo Seeks $2.9 Billion Loan for New York’s Tappan Zee Bridge
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-09-07T17:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/cuomo-seeks-2-9-billion-loan-for-new-york-s-tappan-zee-bridge.html
New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  is
asking for a federal loan of as much as $2.9 billion to build a
new Tappan Zee Bridge across the  Hudson River .  That adds about $900 million to a similar request made last
year that wasn’t approved, according to the loan application.
New York was able to increase the amount under new rules set by
a transportation bill Congress approved in June that allows
applicants to ask for as much as 49 percent of a project’s cost,
rather than one-third. The state also plans to issue from $2.3
billion to $2.7 billion in bonds backed by bridge tolls.  The $2.9 billion loan total is the high end of the request,
using a $5.9 billion cost estimate. The final cost will be
determined in October, when a winning construction bid is
selected, according to the application, which is dated Sept. 5.
The request may drop to $2.4 billion, the state said.  “Given the importance of the bridge to the economy of the
region, we are asking for the maximum we can possibly receive
with the hope that we will get the most support possible,” Tom Madison, executive director of the  New York  Thruway Authority,
said in a statement. The authority is building the bridge, which
is part of the Thruway system.  Regardless of the size of the loan, “we remain confident
that the financial plan for the project will ensure that the new
bridge is completed in a timely manner and without creating an
excessive burden on toll payers,” Madison said.  The transportation bill allows the  Federal Highway
Administration  to issue $17 billion in loans.  Negative Outlook  Getting the loan would be a victory for Cuomo, a 54-year-
old Democrat who has made building a new 3.1-mile (5-kilometer)
Tappan Zee a priority. A Transportation Infrastructure Finance
and Innovation Act loan would reduce the amount of toll-backed
bonds the Thruway Authority would have to issue.  Standard &
Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service lowered the authority’s
credit outlook to negative in June.  Cuomo has said construction will be paid for mostly by
toll-backed bonds, though he’s asked the Thruway Authority to to
find other funding sources in an effort to prevent cash tolls
from almost tripling to $14 from $5. The toll estimate was based
on the bridge costing $5.2 billion. The three bids on the
project are lower than that, said Brian Conybeare, a special
adviser to Cuomo.  ‘Security Blanket’  The state wants to structure the loan so that bondholders
would have priority for repayment in a default.  “It’s a $3 billion security blanket for their
bondholders,” said Steve Steckler, chairman of Infrastructure
Management Group Inc. The Bethesda, Maryland-based firm advises
the U.S. Transportation Department, he said.  The 56-year-old Tappan Zee, about 20 miles north of
 Manhattan , carries 138,000 vehicles each day between Westchester
and Rockland counties, 40 percent more than its design intended.
It’s among 14 projects President  Barack Obama  is speeding
through the federal approval process.  Before the new transportation bill, the federal government
considered project innovation and importance to regional
transportation needs when granting loans, said Joung Lee, the
associate director of finance and business development at the
 American Association  of State Highway and Transportation
Officials. The Washington-based association serves as a liaison
between state transportation departments and the federal
government.  “It’s now based on creditworthiness,” he said. “It would
make it challenging if your credit profile gets too risky
compared to other applications received, of which it sounds like
there’ll be a good number.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  