-- CVC Credit Partners Hire Ex-Credit Suisse Banker Newberry
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-09-07T20:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/cvc-credit-said-to-hire-ex-credit-suisse-banker-tom-newberry.html
Tom Newberry, the former head of
global leveraged finance capital markets at  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN) , joined CVC Credit Partners to lead the firm’s private funds
business.  Newberry, 50, who starts on Sept. 10, will be based in  New
York  and will serve on CVC Credit’s operating board, the firm
said today in a statement distributed by PR Newswire.  CVC Capital Partners Ltd., the European buyout firm with
offices in  London  and New York, agreed to buy  Resource America
Inc. (REXI) ’s leveraged-loan investments unit in January, in a move to
expand into U.S. credit markets. The firm combined its Cordatus
debt unit with Resource’s Apidos Capital Management to form CVC
Credit Partners, according to a Jan. 4 news release.  “Tom is very well respected in the global leveraged-
finance markets and is well known by other private-equity firms,
by corporate clients and by debt investors, both in the U.S. and
 Europe ,” Stephen Hickey, chief risk officer for the group, said
in a telephone interview. “It is a testament to the CVC
franchise that we were able to attract Tom.”  CVC Credit, which manages $7.9 billion in assets across 23
funds, hired Hickey, the former head of global leveraged finance
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., in April. Barclays Plc raised a
$409.8 million collateralized loan obligation for CVC in June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that
pool high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities
of varying risk and return.  More Hires Possible  As head of private credit funds, Newberry is expected to
have oversight for potential mezzanine funds, direct lending
vehicles and business-development companies managed by CVC
Credit. The firm may make additional hires in the future to
support these funds, Hickey said.  Newberry will report to the management committee made up of
Hickey, Marc Boughton, CVC Credit chief executive officer, and
 Jonathan Cohen .  Newberry was previously Credit Suisse’s head of global
leveraged-finance capital markets and syndicated loans,
responsible for the underwriting of high-yield bond, mezzanine
and syndicated loan transactions, as well as the sale and
trading of both performing and distressed loan assets. He left
last year.  He joined Credit Suisse in 2000 when the bank merged with
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, where he was head of U.S. loan
capital markets.  Newberry sat on the board of directors of the Loan
Syndications and Trading Association, a loan industry trade
group, for six years, serving as both the chairman and vice
chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  