-- Democrats Said to End Convention $15 Million Short
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-09-07T21:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/democrats-said-to-end-convention-15-million-short.html
Democrats ended their convention in
 Charlotte  $5 million short of their budget even after being
forced to draw down a $10 million line of credit from  Duke
Energy Corp. (DUK) , according to a Democratic Party fundraiser.  That will leave a $15 million bill that eventually will
have to be paid by President  Barack Obama ’s campaign or the
 Democratic National Committee , according to the fundraiser, who
spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss internal
deliberations.  The Charlotte Host Committee ended the convention with more
than $5 million in immediate obligations and may require a
direct cash infusion from the Obama campaign to pay vendors,
said the fundraiser.  The $10 million line of credit to Duke Energy will need to
be repaid next year, said a second person familiar with the
matter, who also spoke on condition of anonymity. Duke Energy
Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerJim Rogersis co-chairman
of the host committee.  Those debts could siphon off advertising money in the
campaign’s final months, as Democrats face a cash disadvantage.  Bank Balances  Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , the  Republican
National Committee  and two allied super-political action
committees reported a combined bank account balance of $169
million on July 31. That compared with $107 million for
President Barack Obama, the Democratic National Committee and
the pro-Obama super-PAC Priorities USA Action, according to
disclosures filed Aug. 20 with the  Federal Election Commission .  “It is always easier to raise corporate dollars in advance
of a convention because of the visibility and profile that
corporate sponsorship can offer,” said Tony Corrado, a
professor of government at Colby College in Waterville,   Maine ,
who specializes in campaign finance. “After a convention, once
the signs are down and the politicians have left, raising money
is a much more difficult task.”  The host committee failed to reach its $36.7 million
fundraising goal because the DNC banned direct cash
contributions from corporations, which have traditionally
underwritten presidential nominating conventions. Republicans
didn’t have a similar prohibition for their convention last
month in Tampa.  Dealing With Restrictions  “If they got within 5 million, considering that they used
the line of credit, I think that’s awesome, given the
restrictions they had to deal with, ” said Mike Dino, who
served as executive director for the host committee in Denver,
where Democrats held their nomination convention in 2008. “They
should be relieved to be in that range.”  The Denver convention accepted direct corporate
contributions and raised enough money to pay all its bills,
though immediately after the convention, the committee had “in
the range of 8 to 10 million dollars that was outstanding,”
Dino said.  Tom Williams , a spokesman for Duke, referred questions to
the host committee.  “All details relevant to the line of credit from Duke
Energy will be disclosed in the FEC report,” Suzi Emmerling, a
host committee spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  