-- Det Norske Rises to Record on Possible Norway Finds: Oslo Mover
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-09-07T13:46:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/det-norske-rises-to-record-on-possible-norway-finds-oslo-mover.html
Det Norske Oljeselskap ASA (DETNOR) , the oil
explorer with a stake in  Norway ’s biggest find since the 1970s,
rose to a record after reporting two new possible discoveries.  Det Norske jumped as much as 4.8 percent to 99.30 kroner,
the highest level since it listed on the Oslo stock exchange in
December 2006. The company “received indication of hydrocarbons
presence” in the Barents Sea’s Salina prospect and Garantiana
in the North Sea, it said today in separate statements. Neither
Det Norske nor operators  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Total SA (FP)  would elaborate.  The stock has soared since the first estimates of reserves
at the Johan Sverdrup field in the North Sea, the biggest find
off Norway in almost 40 years with as much as 3.3 billion
barrels of oil equivalent, were released in autumn 2011.  It rose 2.9 percent to 97.5 kroner by 3:12 p.m. in Oslo.  “Interest in the company is building,” said Lars Henrik Roeren, an analyst at SEB Enskilda. “With a reasonable market,
it won’t be long before this stock reaches 100 to 105 kroner.”  Last month, Det Norske and partner  Statoil ASA (STL)  struck oil
again at nearby Geitungen, which is probably linked to Sverdrup
and may increase reserves by as much as 270 million barrels.  Drilling is still in an “initial phase” at the possible
finds, Det Norske said today, adding separately that it had
begun informing markets at an earlier stage of developments at
its wells and information was “subject to reassessments.”  Eni’s Andreas Wulff said it would be weeks before Salina
was confirmed, while Total’s Leif Harald Halvorsen said it was
too early to call Garantiana a discovery.  ‘Significant Potential’  “You shouldn’t overestimate the value of today’s update
but it has significant potential,” Roeren said of Salina.
“It’s only right that it should rise a little on this.”  Det Norske Chief Executive Officer Erik Haugane said last
month he hoped the Salina prospect would contain oil and not gas
because he’s concerned that smaller gas finds in the  Barents Sea 
won’t be developed without a southbound export pipeline.  Statoil, which may decide in November to boost output from
its Snohvit field in the area, has said it favors expanding its
liquefied natural gas capacity rather than building a pipe.  “It lies close to Snohvit so the infrastructure is
nearby,” said Roeren, who recommends investors purchase the
stock. “If it’s gas, this isn’t the worst place to be. There
are more than enough other reasons to buy Det Norske.”  SEB Enskilda raised the price estimate to 130 kroner from
110 kroner after the explorer’s second-quarter earnings last
month. The stock now seems “much cheaper” than last time it
peaked at 96 kroner in January, Roeren said.  The shares may rise again with new estimates for Geitungen,
two appraisal wells that will be drilled on Johan Sverdrup in
the autumn and the Geite prospect in the  North Sea , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter  in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  