-- Deutsche Bank Debt-Trading Managing Director Pappas Departs Firm
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-09-07T14:49:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/deutsche-bank-debt-trading-managing-director-pappas-departs-firm.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s Nicholas Pappas,
who helped run credit-trading in  New York , departed the firm as
 Germany ’s biggest lender cuts jobs and bonuses and after risk-
curbing regulations changed the way banks broker debt.  Pappas, most recently co-head of flow credit trading for
North America, left the bank this week, according to a person
familiar with the matter who asked not to be identified. Pappas
declined to comment, as did  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman for the
bank.  Pappas’s exit from the bank follows that of Antoine Cornut,
the firm’s head of flow-credit trading in the Americas and
 Europe , who left the Frankfurt-based firm for a hedge fund in
July, people familiar with that matter said at the time. Tom Hartnett was named to oversee investment-grade credit in  North
America  in addition to interest-rate products.  Deutsche Bank said in July that it will eliminate 1,900
jobs, including 1,500 at the investment bank and support areas,
by the end of the year as Chief Executive Officers Anshu Jain
and Juergen Fitschen face declining revenue from the unit.
Revenue at the investment bank dropped 63 percent in the second
quarter, with income from placing debt declining 11 percent.  At least 11 credit traders have exited Deutsche Bank’s New
York credit dealer since the beginning of 2011 as the lender
capped cash bonuses at 100,000 euros ($127,890) last year. With
regulators seeking to limit the kind of risk-taking that
amplified the housing crisis four years ago, banks have slashed
or deferred pay while reducing the amount they’re willing to
wager in markets.  Bond Inventories  The 21 primary dealers that trade directly with the  Federal
Reserve  have cut their  holdings  of corporate securities due in
more than a year to $43.4 billion as of Aug. 29 from a peak of
$235 billion in October 2007, Fed data show.  The Frankfurt-based firm is the third-biggest underwriter
of corporate bonds worldwide this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Pappas joined Deutsche Bank in October 2007 from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., according to records maintained by the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. He previously worked at
Bear Stearns & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  