-- Dollar Falls to 3-Month Low as Jobs Data Trail Forecast
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-09-07T21:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/dollar-weakens-as-august-jobs-report-lifts-fed-bets.html
The dollar weakened to a three-month
low against the euro as U.S. employers added fewer jobs in
August than forecast, boosting speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will increase its monetary stimulus.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)   dropped  to the weakest level since May 11
as the extra liquidity from a third round of asset purchases by
the U.S. central bank, known as quantitative easing, may debase
the currency. Canada’s dollar rallied to its strongest in a year
versus the U.S. currency after the nation added more jobs than
projected, fueling expectations of a central bank interest-rate
increase. The Swiss franc fell to the weakest since January
against the euro.  “The market is by and large divided in to three camps;
that QE comes in September, December, or not at all,” said
David Doyle, a strategist at Macquarie Capital Markets in
Toronto. “The market is moving more and more towards the
September camp and that is being priced in.”  The dollar fell 1.5 percent to $1.2816 per euro at 5 p.m.
in New York, touching the lowest level since May 22. It lost 0.8
percent to 78.24 yen. The 17-nation currency added 0.7 percent
to 100.25 yen.  ’This Pop’  “You’re getting this pop because people are looking at
these numbers as disappointing and Mr. Bernanke told us that he
was very concerned and frustrated with progress in the labor
markets, so the market is reading into this,” said  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at  Wells Fargo & Co . in
New York. “September is still possible and if it’s not
September, it increases likelihood of October and December.”  The Dollar Index fell 1.1 percent to 80.172. The measure of
the greenback versus the currencies of six major trading
partners breached its 200-day moving average. The gauge may fall
to 79.861, the 200-week moving average, IDEAglobal, a Singapore-
based research and consulting company, wrote to clients today.  The 14-day relative strength index for the euro versus the
dollar rose above the 70 level today for the first time since
May 2011. A reading above 70 signals an asset may have rallied
too far too quickly and is due for a correction.  Futures traders  raised bets  that the shared currency will
decline against the dollar for the first time in four weeks.
Net-shorts rose by 745 to 102,306 in the week ended Sept. 4,
according to data from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a record 214,418
reached June 5.  Price Swings  Implied volatility, which signals the expected pace of
currency swings, for the currencies of Group of Seven nations
fell to 8.04 percent, the lowest since October 2007, according
to a JPMorgan Chase & Co.  index . Lower volatility makes
investments in currencies with higher benchmark lending rates
more attractive because the risk in such trades is that market
moves will erase profit.  Canada ’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.4 percent to 97.86
cents per  U.S. dollar .  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said “some modest
withdrawal of the present considerable monetary policy stimulus
may become appropriate” at the bank’s Sept. 5 meeting.  The franc fell to 1.20981 versus the euro, touching the
lowest since Jan. 9, declining for a fifth day. The  Swiss
National Bank  put a cap of 1.20 per euro on the franc in
September 2011 to limit its strength after investors sought the
currency as a haven from the euro-area’s debt crisis.  The pound rallied 0.5 percent to $1.6010, exceeding $1.60
for the first time since May 16.  ECB Plans  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
the central bank will target  government bonds  with maturities of
between one and three years through its Outright Monetary
Transaction scheme. The purchases will be fully sterilized,
meaning the impact on  money supply  will be neutral, and the ECB
will not have seniority, he said.  The euro has fallen 3.4 percent this year among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The yen fell 4 percent, and the dollar
declined 2.1 percent.  The U.S. currency fell as a report showed nonfarm payrolls
increased 96,000 in August, compared with a revised 141,000 the
previous month. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week at
the  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, economic summit that weak hiring and
unemployment exceeding 8 percent posed a “grave concern.”  Bernanke at Jackson Hole said Aug. 31 that bond purchases
are an option as central bankers weigh further steps to spur
growth on top of the $2.3 trillion in so-called quantitative
easing, or QE, since 2008. The policy-setting  Federal Open
Market Committee  meets Sept. 12-13.  “The Fed has been looking for an opportunity to pull the
trigger,” said  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in
New York at  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  “This report means a
70 percent chance of QE3, accompanied by an extension of the
low-rate guidance potentially, regardless of incoming data.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  