-- LDP’s Ishiba Says Japan Should Build on Islands Claimed by China
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-09-07T07:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/ldp-s-ishiba-says-japan-should-build-on-islands-claimed-by-china.html
Former Japanese defense chief
Shigeru Ishiba, the most popular choice to win this month’s race
to head the main opposition party, said the government must step
up its control of islands claimed by  China  by building on them.  Ishiba, former head of policy research for the Liberal
 Democratic Party , said in an interview today that  Japan  should
build a harbor to offer shelter for fishing vessels and station
personnel there if necessary. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s
government is in talks to buy the chain, called Senkaku in
Japanese and Daioyu in China, from a private Japanese owner.  “I don’t think it’s right for the country to buy them and
leave them as they are,” Ishiba said. “We should raise our
level of control over the islands.”  Relations between Asia’s two biggest economies have soured
over the islands, sparking anti-Japanese protests and imperiling
a meeting this weekend between Noda and Chinese President  Hu
Jintao . While Noda has called for calm in dealing with the
issue, the LDP is seeking to unseat his ruling Democratic Party
of Japan in elections that could come as soon as next month.  Ishiba, 55, signaled he will run in the LDP’s leadership
contest on Sept. 26. The party will meet to decide whether to
keep Sadakazu Tanigaki as its standard-bearer ahead of national
elections Noda has pledged to call “soon.” Polls show low
approval ratings for both parties.  “I believe I have a responsibility to respond to the
expectations of me,” Ishiba said, when asked whether he planned
to run. A poll published last week by  Kyodo News  showed 25.5
percent of respondents favored him as the next LDP leader,
compared with 9.2 percent who supported Tanigaki. Only LDP
lawmakers and party representatives can vote in the contest.  Sales Tax  Ishiba said he supported Noda’s legislation to double the
five percent  sales tax  by October 2015, an issue that split the
ruling party. Noda pushed the bill through both houses of
parliament with the help of the LDP, calling it necessary to
address the country’s soaring debt.  The former defense chief also called for closer cooperation
between the government and the  Bank of Japan (8301)  to reverse more
than a decade of deflation, and said the law governing the
central bank should be changed to allow more political
influence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  