-- Dutch Vegetable-Oil Makers Claim Russia Is Breaching WTO Accords
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-07T15:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/dutch-vegetable-oil-makers-claim-russia-is-breaching-wto-accords.html
Vegetable-oil makers in the
Netherlands called on the country’s government to object to
alleged Russian breaches of World Trade Organization tariff
agreements for importing edible oils and fats.  Russia  has maintained minimum import duties for palm oil,
palm-kernel oil, coconut oil and some hydrogenated vegetable
fats and oils, the Netherlands’ Product Board for Margarine,
Fats and Oils, known by its Dutch acronym MVO, wrote in a
 statement  on its website today. WTO tariff tables have no
provision for minimum duties on those products, the board wrote.  “For the Dutch oil and fats industry, the Russian
Federation is the most important sales market outside the EU,”
the Rijswijk, Netherlands-based board wrote. It urged Economy
Minister Maxime Verhagen to object to the purported breaches.  The Netherlands is the world’s fifth-largest importer of
palm oil and its fractions, according to trade figures from the
WTO and  United Nations . Most of the oil is re-exported, making
the country the third-biggest shipper of  palm oil  behind
Indonesia and  Malaysia , the data show.  Board President Wim Oosterhuis sent a letter to Verhagen
today to ask him to complain to Russia, according to the MVO.
Russia last month became the 156th member of the WTO after 18
years of talks.  The EU exported oils and fats worth 280 million euros ($358
million) to Russia last year, including 106 million euros by the
Netherlands, the MVO wrote. Dutch exports of refined palm oil to
Russia were 69 million euros, out of total EU shipments to the
country of 80 million euros, according to the board.  Russia, within the WTO framework, agreed on a maximum
import duty for refined palm oil of 5 percent in 2012, according
to the product board.  Based on a price of 1,000 euros a metric ton,  import duties 
for refined palm oil based on the WTO accords would be capped at
50 euros, according to the MVO. Russia’s minimum duty of 12
cents a kilogram (2.2 pounds) equates to 120 euros a ton, more
than twice as much, according to the board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  