-- EBA May Face Voting Changes to Preserve Balance at EU Regulator
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-09-07T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/eba-may-face-voting-changes-to-preserve-balance-at-eu-regulator.html
The European Banking Authority may
face structural changes to prevent the U.K. and other non-euro
area nations from losing influence at the financial regulator as
a result of the currency bloc’s planned banking union.  The proposed changes include setting up an independent
panel to assess whether national regulators are correctly
applying  European Union law  and making the panel’s decisions
binding unless they are rejected by a majority of regulators,
according to a document obtained by  Bloomberg News . The EU has
said that it will present the banking union plans Sept. 12.  At least three national regulators from non-euro area
countries would have to support any move to strike down one of
the panels’ decisions, according to the document. The  European
Central Bank  would coordinate euro-area positions at the EBA on
some matters, it said.  Euro-area leaders in June decided to create a common bank
supervisor and beef up the ECB’s oversight role to pave the way
for direct bank bailouts from the single-currency area’s
firewall funds. The U.K. has warned that the plan shouldn’t lead
to the euro area dominating the EBA, which drafts financial
rules that apply across the 27-nation EU.  Debt Crisis  The euro region’s debt crisis, now in its third year, has
forced Ireland,  Greece ,  Portugal  and Cyprus to seek broad-based
aid, while the Spanish government was granted as much as 100
billion euros ($128 billion) to recapitalize its beleaguered
banking system.  A spokeswoman for the EBA in  London  declined to comment.
Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for  Michel Barnier , the EU
financial services chief, declined to comment on the document.  He said that the European Commission was seeking “a
balanced representation of all 27 EU member states at the EBA
and to preserve the integrity of the EU’s single market.”  Under current rules, the independent EBA has the power to
rule on disputes between banking regulators that concern
interpretations of EU law through a process known as binding
mediation. The ECB would generally be expected to comply with
EBA decisions in the same way as national regulators, according
to the document.  The EBA has also conducted stress tests to determine the
health of the EU banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 