-- Hedge Funds Gained 0.7% Last Month as Global Stock Markets Rose
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-09-07T18:19:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/hedge-funds-gained-0-7-last-month-as-global-stock-markets-rose.html
Hedge funds  gained last month as
global stocks rallied on speculation the  Federal Reserve  may
take additional steps to boost the economy and Europe moved
closer to containing its sovereign-debt crisis.  Funds climbed 0.7 percent in August, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Long-short equity, multistrategy and
global macro managers gained.  Global stocks as measured by the  MSCI All-Country World
Index (MXWD)  have surged 4.8 percent since the end of July, including
reinvested dividends, as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank had the ability to take additional steps to boost
the economy, and speculation grew that Spain would get a
bailout. European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
yesterday that policy makers have agreed on a plan to buy
unlimited government debt.  “You have a temporary postponement of concern,” said Emma Sugarman, global head of capital introduction at BNP Paribas SA
in New York, which helps hedge funds meet prospective investors.  Emerging markets  stock funds performed best, gaining 1.5
percent in August, followed by  macro  funds, which bet on
economic trends and rose 1.3 percent. The increase last month
brought hedge funds’ gains this year to 2.6 percent. The funds
are trailing equities, which rose 9.9 percent worldwide,
including dividends.  Pine River  The main Bloomberg hedge fund index is weighted by market
capitalization and tracks 2,738 funds, 1,264 of which have
reported returns for August. The index is down 10 percent from
its July 2007 peak.  Multistrategy funds returned 0.7 percent in August and fell
2.9 percent this year. Pine River Capital Management LP, the $10
billion multistrategy firm based in  Minnetonka , Minnesota,
posted a 1.9 percent increase last month in its Pine River Fund,
which has $1.5 billion in assets and is run by Aaron Yeary,
according to an e-mail obtained by  Bloomberg News . The return
brings gains this year to 14 percent. The firm’s assets include
hedge funds, managed accounts and  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) ,
a mortgage real estate investment trust.  Carlson Capital LP’s Double Black Diamond fund rose 3
percent last month and 7.7 percent this year, according to a
person briefed on the returns, who asked not to be named because
the information isn’t public. The $6.6 billion Dallas-based
hedge fund is run by Clint Carlson.  New Mountain  Visium Asset Management, the $3.5 billion New York-based
hedge fund, posted a 1.5 percent August gain in its Visium
Global Fund, bringing returns this year to 14 percent, according
to a person familiar with the matter. The fund is managed by
Jacob Gottlieb.  Long-short equity funds, whose managers can bet on rising
and falling stocks, climbed 0.5 percent last month and 0.8
percent in 2012.  New Mountain Vantage Advisers LLC, a $1.5 billion New York-
based long-short equity fund, posted a 2.4 percent August gain
in its New Mountain Vantage LP fund, bringing yearly returns to
8.3 percent, according to a person familiar with the matter.
Daniel Riley and  David Frost  are the fund’s co-portfolio
managers.  Spokesmen for the firms declined to comment on the returns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  