-- Emerging Stocks Head for Largest 2-Day Gain in Month
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-07T21:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/emerging-stocks-head-for-largest-2-day-gain-in-month.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced the
most in six weeks as investors speculated Chinese  government
spending  and European Central Bank bond purchases will bolster
the global economy.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 1.9 percent to
968.82, its biggest increase since July 27, capping its first
weekly gain since Aug. 10. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index
jumped 4 percent and  China Resources Cement Holdings Ltd. (1313)  surged
14 percent on plans to build more roads. Stock gauges in Russia,
Hungary and India each advanced more than 1.3 percent. Chile’s
IPSA index climbed the most in three weeks.  The emerging-market index surged for a second day after the
ECB agreed to an unlimited bond-buying program to support growth
in the European Union, which purchases about 30 percent of
exports from nations in the MSCI gauge. China’s announcement on
roads came a day after approvals for subway projects in 18
cities. A U.S. report showed job growth slowed more than
forecast last month, boosting expectations that the  Federal
Reserve  will start a third round of debt purchases.  “Much of the optimism comes from Draghi’s announcement,
and the fact that the jobs number is poor means we are going to
get easing measures from the Fed,” Aryam Vazquez, an economist
for global  emerging markets  at  Wells Fargo & Co ., said by phone
from New York. “The Chinese are certainly priming the fiscal
pump to limit the downside risks to growth.”  EM ETF Surges  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, increased 2.3
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, slumped 7.2 percent.  The  U.S. economy  added 96,000 workers last month following
a revised 141,000 increase in July that was smaller than
initially estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. The median estimate of 92 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a gain of 130,000.  The MSCI gauge advanced 2.3 percent this week, extending
its gain this year to 5.7 percent. The 21-country index is
valued at 10.9 times estimated earnings, compared with 13.3
times for the MSCI World Index of developed-nation shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Russia’s Micex Index rose 1.3 percent and Hungary’s BUX
gained 1.6 percent. India’s BSE India Sensitive Index rallied
the most since June, climbing 2 percent.  Hungary Rally  The BUX index advanced for a sixth day, the longest stretch
of gains since January. The country needs and will obtain a
 credit line  from the  International Monetary Fund  even as the
government opposes the conditions currently demanded for the
aid, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said in an interview with
state-run Kossuth radio today.  Orban sparked a tumble in Hungarian bonds and the currency
yesterday after saying in a video message that he rejected the
Washington-based lender’s aid criteria.  Cap SA , Chile’s largest iron miner and steel producer,
rose 3.8 percent for the biggest increase in three months after
iron-ore swaps rose the most in five months. Multiexport Foods
SA, the country’s second-largest publicly traded salmon
exporter, jumped 4.5 percent, the most among IPSA members.  China’s government backed nine sewage-treatment plants,
five port and warehouse projects, and two waterway upgrades in
addition to plans to build 2,018 kilometers (1,254 miles) of
roads, according to statements on the website of the National
Development and Reform Commission yesterday. No investment
amounts were given.  Construction Stocks  Chinese construction-related stocks advanced.  Anhui Conch
Cement Co. (914) , the country’s biggest supplier of the building
material, gained 8.5 percent in Hong Kong. China Resources
Cement jumped the most on record, while Angang Steel rallied 8.8
percent. Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science and Technology Co.,
China’s second-biggest machinery maker, climbed 8.1 percent.  South Korea’s debt rating was upgraded by  Fitch Ratings  to
AA-, the same as Saudi Arabia and one level higher than Japan
and China, 10 days after a similar move by Moody’s Investors
Service. The rating reflects the country’s economic, financial
and political stability and ability to cope with a volatile
global environment, Fitch said in a statement yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries dropped 5 basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 301 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global  Index. (VXEEM)   To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  