-- Ethiopian Airlines Expansion Targets Five-Fold Revenue Increase
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-09-07T11:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/ethiopian-airlines-expansion-targets-five-fold-revenue-increase.html
Ethiopian Airlines Enterprise, the
first carrier outside  Japan  to start flying Boeing Co.’s 787
Dreamliner, will add 14 new aircraft this year as part of its
plan to boost revenue five-fold by 2025, Chief Executive Officer
Tewolde GebreMariam said.  The company is in a “fast growth” phase, targeting annual
sales of $10 billion a year by the middle of next decade from
what will then be a fleet of 120 planes, he said in an interview
yesterday in the capital, Addis Ababa.  “There is a need to reinvest profit in financing a new
fleet and in new infrastructure,” Tewolde said. “There’s a lot
of investment going on.”  Ethiopian Airlines, which flies to 43 African destinations
and is sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest carrier, is expanding
as economic output on the continent increases. Growth is
forecast to accelerate to 4.8 percent next year from an
estimated 4.5 percent this year, according to data on the
 African Development Bank ’s  website .  Global airline profits are expected to more than halve this
year to $3 billion, as recessions in the U.K.,  Spain  and other
European countries curb demand, according to the  International
Air Transport Association .  Ethiopian Airlines posted a profit of 732 million birr ($41
million) in the 12 months to July 7, the end of  Ethiopia ’s
fiscal year, compared with 1.23 billion a year earlier. Revenue
grew 36 percent to 33 billion Ethiopia birr, according to
Tewolde.  “The previous year net profit was exaggerated with the
windfall of the Ethiopian birr devaluation,” he said.  Dreamliners  The company, which began flights in 1946 and now flies to
69 international destinations, received the first of 10
Dreamliners last month, after receiving a $1.2 billion loan from
JPMorgan Chase & Co. backed by credit support from the U.S.
Export-Import  Bank (JPM)  that covered 85 percent of the cost. Another
five Dreamliners are expected before December, Tewolde said.  Ethiopian Airlines, which now has a fleet of 50 aircraft,
also received its first Boeing 777 Freighter aircraft this
month, with another five ordered for 2014, he said.  The carrier plans to split operations into seven businesses
including an aviation academy, cargo, maintenance and repair
units, which by 2025 will generate at least half their revenue
by providing services to other companies, Tewolde said. The
units will be formed this fiscal year, he said.  “It may be difficult to achieve such extraordinary growth
just by being an airline,” he said. “We want to develop the
aviation services as business units on their own.”  In addition to Bole International Airport in the capital,
Ethiopian has a hub in Lomé, Togo, in partnership with ASKY
Airlines that it owns 40 percent of and manages, Tewolde said.
It is planning a similar venture in southern Africa, possibly in
Zambia, he said.  Ethiopia’s government will expand Bole to cope with demand
through 2025 and is planning a second international airport near
Modjo, 76 kilometers (47 miles) southeast of the capital,
Tewolde said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  