-- EU Shale Output Won’t Make Europe Self-Sufficient, Study Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-09-07T11:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/eu-shale-output-won-t-make-europe-self-sufficient-study-shows.html
Shale-gas production in the European
Union won’t make the region self-sufficient in natural gas,
according to a study by the EU Joint Research Centre.  “The best-case scenario for shale-gas development in
Europe is one in which declining conventional production can be
replaced and import dependence maintained at a level around 60
percent,” the JRC’s Energy Security Unit said in the report
published today in Brussels.  The EU is analyzing the adequacy of its legislation of
unconventional fossil fuels as companies such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  started drilling exploration wells in
countries including  Poland , the U.K. and  Germany .  Environmental groups have raised concern that hydraulic
fracturing, the process of blasting sand, water and chemicals
into shale rock to release trapped fuel, risks earthquakes and
polluting water supply. The process, known as fracking, has made
the U.S. the world’s largest natural-gas producer. France is
among EU nations that have banned fracking.  Extracting shale gas imposes a larger environmental
footprint than conventional gas development, according to a
separate study for the European Commission led by AEA Technology
Plc published today.  A third study, which analyzes the impact on climate and was
also led by AEA Technology, showed that shale gas produced in
the EU would release more  greenhouse gases  than conventional
natural gas.  Emissions would be “less than imported gas from outside
the EU, be it via pipeline or by LNG due to the impacts on
emissions from long-distance gas transport,” the European
Commission said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  