-- European Stocks Post Largest Weekly Gain in Three Months
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-09-07T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/european-stocks-post-largest-weekly-gain-in-three-months.html
European stocks  posted the largest
weekly advance since June as European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  outlined an unlimited bond-buying program to regain
control of interest rates and stem the sovereign debt crisis.  Italian banks led a gauge of European lenders to the best
performance on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, with Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA and  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  rallying at least 16
percent.  Ashtead Group Plc (AHT) , a U.K. construction-equipment rental
company, rose to a record after saying full-year earnings will
be higher than forecast.  Rhoen-Klinikum AG (RHK)  sank 23 percent.  The benchmark Stoxx 600 increased 2.3 percent to 272.30
this past week. The gauge has climbed  16 percent  from this
year’s low on June 4 amid speculation central banks around the
world will take further measures to support an economic
recovery.  The ECB deal “was a great victory for the periphery,”
said Jean-Paul Jeckelmann, chief investment officer at Banque
Bonhote & Cie. in Neuchatel, Switzerland. “It confirmed that
Spain and Italy are too big to fail and that we will find all
the resources to keep them alive. We have solved the liquidity
side of the problem but if the economy continues to worsen, the
discussion about solvency will rapidly come back. So it’s very
good news in the short-term, but still holds some risk for the
medium-term.”  National benchmark indexes increased in all of the 18
western European markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 1.5
percent, France’s CAC 40 added 3.1 percent and Germany’s DAX
Index climbed 3.5 percent. Italy’s FTSE MIB rallied 6.7 percent,
while Spain’s IBEX 35 jumped 6.2 percent.  ‘Effective Backstop’  The ECB will target government bonds with maturities of one
to three years, including longer-dated debt that has a residual
maturity of that length, Draghi said. Purchases will be fully
sterilized, meaning that the overall impact on the  money supply 
will be neutral, and the ECB will not have seniority, he said.  The program “will enable us to address severe distortions
in government bond markets which originate from, in particular,
unfounded fears on the part of investors of the reversibility of
the euro,” Draghi said at a press conference in Frankfurt on
Sept. 6. “Under appropriate conditions, we will have a fully
effective backstop to avoid destructive scenarios with
potentially severe challenges for price stability.”  The ECB left its  benchmark interest rate  at a record low of
0.75 percent this week, as predicted by 28 of 58 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The remainder had forecast a quarter-point
cut. The  Bank of England  kept its rate at 0.5 percent and held
its  bond-purchase target  at 375 billion pounds ($597 billion).  Manufacturing Contraction  In the euro-area, a report on Sept. 3 showed  manufacturing 
contracted more than initially estimated in August, suggesting
the economy may struggle to  avoid  a recession in the third
quarter.  A gauge of manufacturing in the 17-nation euro area based
on a survey of purchasing managers was revised lower to 45.1
from the reading of 45.3 estimated earlier, London-based Markit
Economics said. The index, which stood at 44 in July, has held
for 13 months below 50, indicating contraction.  A Labor Department report in Washington this week showed
that payrolls rose less than projected in August and the
 unemployment rate  declined as more Americans left the  labor
force , indicating the U.S. labor market is stagnating.  The economy added 96,000 workers last month following a
revised 141,000 rise in July that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed in Washington. The
median estimate of 92 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a gain of 130,000. Unemployment unexpectedly fell to 8.1
percent, and hourly earnings were unchanged.  Italian Banks  Italian banks led European lenders higher to post the best
performance on the  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  this week, with  Monte Paschi (BMPS)  and
UniCredit rallying 18 percent and 16 percent, respectively.
 Unione di Banche Italiane SCPA (UBI)  jumped 18 percent.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  climbed 15 percent, while  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  gained 16 percent.  Ashtead Group rose 17 percent after saying full-year
earnings will be “materially better” than previously forecast.  “We are past the worst and into a gentle recovery” in the
U.S., Chief Executive Officer Geoff Drabble said Sept. 4 in an
interview. Ashtead is seeing a “sense of recovery” in U.S.
residential construction, though there is still concern about
the government spending, Drabble said. Rentals supporting
oilfield development in Texas helped drive earnings to “the
highest margins we have ever had at this stage of the cycle.”  Davide Campari Milano SpA (CPR)  rose 8.8 percent after the
Italian distiller said it will purchase Lascelles deMercado &
Co., the Jamaican maker of Appleton rum, in a deal that’s worth
$414.8 million to hasten the company’s push into overseas
markets.  Miners Advance  Mining companies climbed, pushing a gauge of basic
resources companies up 6.1 percent, as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said this week that Chinese commodity demand is set to rebound
into the final quarter as the world’s largest user of energy and
metals will see more infrastructure projects and construction.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BLT) , the world’s largest mining group, rose
3.8 percent, while  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the third-biggest, added 10
percent.  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  advanced 4 percent after the platinum producer,
whose main mine has been shut since Aug. 10 because of a violent
strike that led to the death of 44 people, agreed with three
labor unions to reopen wage talks.  Under the agreement, the miners will return to work at the
operation, which accounts for a 10th of global platinum output,
by 7 a.m. local time on Sept. 10.  Rhoen-Klinikum, Nokia  Rhoen-Klinikum sank 23 percent as the German hospital
operator said Fresenius SE decided against reviving its takeover
bid, capping more than four months of jockeying over the top
spot in the German hospital market.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  tumbled 9 percent after the introduction of two
Lumia smartphones with Microsoft Corp.’s new Windows Phone
software failed to impress investors.  Nokia is counting on its partnership with Microsoft to help
boost sales and return it to profitability after falling behind
rivals. The company has identified the U.S. as a market where it
has to win back users and gain momentum in its comeback bid.  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,  Europe’s largest cigarette
maker , retreated 3.9 percent and  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) , the
second-biggest, slumped 7.9 percent. Russia’s government will
submit a law banning smoking in public places to parliament by
Nov. 1 and Le Parisien said French Health Minister Marisol Touraine will announce a plan in the coming weeks to remove
branding labels from cigarette packs and increase the price by
40 cents per packet from Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  