-- Ex-Credit Suisse Banker Bagios Barred From Leaving U.S.
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-09-08T14:20:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/ex-credit-suisse-banker-bagios-barred-from-leaving-u-s-.html
Christos Bagios, the former banker
at UBS AG and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  who was arrested in January
2011 amid a crackdown on offshore  tax evasion , may not leave
 Florida  to visit  Switzerland  and  Greece , a U.S. judge ruled.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Lurana S. Snow yesterday denied a bid
by Bagios, 45, to modify his bail and visit his family in
Switzerland and his ailing mother in Greece. Prosecutors charged
him with helping 150 American clients hide as much as $500
million from U.S. tax authorities when he worked at UBS, where
he spent 15 years before joining Credit Suisse in 2009.  Lawyers for Bagios, who is free on $650,000 bail, said he
has an “impeccable record” of complying with terms of his
release, and he would return. Prosecutors argued that Bagios
faces five years in prison and he might flee because he has no
incentive to return to Florida.  “Permitting the defendant to travel to his country of
origin or residence would be an invitation to flee,” Snow ruled
in federal court in  Fort Lauderdale .  Bagios is one of two dozen foreign bankers, lawyers or
advisers charged since 2008 in the crackdown on offshore tax
evasion. Seven current or former Credit Suisse bankers were
indicted last year. Prosecutors also have charged about 50 U.S.
taxpayers.  UBS (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank, avoided prosecution by
paying $780 million, admitting it helped Americans cheat on
taxes, and turning over data on secret accounts. At least 11
other banks are under criminal investigation.  ‘Ongoing Discussions’  Bagios was charged on a criminal complaint and prosecutors
agreed several times to push back the deadline for indicting
him. In an Aug. 1 court filing, Matthew Menchel, an attorney for
Bagios, said he and prosecutors “have had ongoing discussions
about possible resolutions to this case.”  Menchel wrote that the travel restriction has been
“incredibly onerous” on Bagios. He wanted to go to Switzerland
to visit his wife and two children. He also wanted to go to
Greece, where he is a citizen, to visit his widowed 76-year-old
mother. She has non-malignant brain tumors, Menchel said. Bagios
is “increasingly at risk of being unable to make the rent
payments” on his Florida apartment.  Menchel declined to comment on the judge’s ruling.  In opposing Bagios’s motion to leave Florida, prosecutors
said they have “unearthed substantial evidence” of his role in
a conspiracy to defraud the U.S. through secret Swiss accounts.
The  Internal Revenue Service  had interviewed seven of his former
UBS customers who failed to declare accounts to the IRS,
according to the government’s court filing on Aug. 20.  Prosecutors have said that a former UBS banker who pleaded
guilty, Renzo Gadola, gave the U.S. information that led to the
arrest of Bagios and another banker, Martin Lack.  A former UBS banker, Lack was indicted in August 2011 on a
charge of conspiring to help Americans evade taxes by hiding
accounts in a smaller Swiss regional bank. Lack, a Swiss
resident and independent  investment adviser , is accused of
conspiring with Gadola. Lack hasn’t responded in federal court
in Fort Lauderdale to the charge.  The case is U.S. v. Bagios, 11-mj-6030, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  New York  at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in Fort Lauderdale at 
 susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 