-- Texas Republicans Send Conflicting Messages to Latinos
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-09-07T14:43:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/texas-republicans-send-conflicting-messages-to-latinos.html
Senate candidate Ted Cruz, a Cuban-
American, and Mexican-American George P. Bush, nephew and
grandson of presidents, are rising Republican stars in Texas,
where courts have blocked laws they deem unfair to Latinos.  Party leaders hold up Cruz as an example of their efforts
to get Hispanics on the ballot, courting a constituency crucial
to their future -- and one that opponents say they are driving
into the arms of Democrats. Bush, the son of former  Florida 
Governor  Jeb Bush , is helping to cultivate such candidates in a
state where Latinos make up 38 percent of the population.  Yet steps taken by the Republican-controlled Legislature
and Governor  Rick Perry , the party’s most powerful leader in
Austin, have been declared unfair to Hispanics and other
minorities. Federal courts last month rejected lawmakers’
attempts to redraw electoral districts, saying they were
designed to dilute minority voting strength, and blocked a
voter-identification law as discriminatory.  “With all the activity, voter ID and redistricting, it’s
very hard to conclude anything other than that the Anglo
 Republican Party  in Texas is fighting to hold back the Hispanic
tide,” Cal Jillson, who teaches politics at  Southern Methodist
University , said from  Dallas . “Hispanics see these things and
wonder: ‘Are they directed at me?’”  Republican Redoubt  Republicans run the Lone Star State, holding all 29
statewide elective offices and controlling legislative
majorities. Their dominance may be threatened by a surge of
Latinos, who made up 32 percent of the population in 2000,
according to U.S. Census Bureau data. Hispanics are forecast to
become  Texas ’s ethnic majority by 2030, state figures show, and
Jillson said they vote for Democrats by a 2-to-1 margin.  “It’s a very Republican state,” San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro, a Democrat who presides over the state’s second-biggest
city, said at a Bloomberg News/ Washington  Post breakfast
yesterday. “It won’t always be.”  Castro gives Republicans eight years or less before their
control in Austin crumbles.  Hispanic growth and the shifting policies of the Republican
Party will help turn Texas “toward a purple and then a blue
state,” Castro said at the breakfast in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , where he was a keynote speaker at the Democratic
National Convention. The shift has been reflected in the voter-
identification law, Perry’s recent attacks on President  Barack Obama ’s move to let some young illegal immigrants seek temporary
legal status and Cruz’s primary win with Tea Party support.  Far Right  “These guys have run the table for so long that now
they’re about to elect  Ted Cruz , someone who is way far out
there on the right,” Castro said of Texas Republicans.  In the ruling striking down the state’s voter-
identification law, a U.S. court said the statute “imposes
strict, unforgiving burdens on the poor, and racial minorities
in Texas are disproportionately likely to live in poverty.”  Regarding the Legislature’s redrawn congressional and
legislative districts, a three-judge panel ruled that minority
voting power would be diluted. State Attorney General  Greg Abbott  has pledged to appeal both decisions.  Castro said the Republican Party’s lurch toward anti-
immigrant policies has put off Hispanics including some who
backed George W. Bush in his 2004 re-election drive, when he won
about 40 percent of Latino votes in Texas.  The mayor described the former president and Texas governor
as “a candidate that was able to reach out” and contrasted him
with Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , a former
Massachusetts governor.  Romney ‘Headwind’  Romney “just has a great headwind because of the
immigration policy,” Castro said. “I mean, talking about self-
deportation, you know, it just rubbed the Hispanic community the
wrong way.”  There are two Republican wings in Texas: “Social
conservatives,” who see Latinos as a threat and support
policies such as voter identification, and “economic
conservatives,” who count Hispanics as important allies and
advocate pragmatic immigration measures, according to Sylvia
Manzano, a senior analyst for Latino Decisions. Her political
research company is based in Renton, Washington, near  Seattle .  Pondering It  “The question is, which one is going to win?” Manzano
said from Houston, where she is based. As long as that divide
exists among Republicans, “Latinos think: ‘You haven’t made up
your minds about us. We’ll get back to you,’” she said.  Texas mirrors challenges confronting Romney’s campaign in
an election that may turn on votes in states with large Latino
populations, including Florida, Colorado and  Nevada . Capturing a
majority of Hispanic votes may be the key to winning in such
states. Obama led Romney by more than 2-to-1 among Hispanics in
recent Latino Decisions national polls.  Republican leaders have acknowledged the challenge created
by policies such as  Arizona ’s “show me your papers” measure
directed at people stopped or detained by police. Jeb Bush said
last week that such laws pose a risk to Republicans at the
ballot box because they alienate Hispanics and Asians.  “The most vociferous anti-immigrant kind of candidates
lose,” Bush said at the  Republican National Convention  in
Tampa, Florida. He said immigrants “will become the dominant
factor in politics.”  Making a Pitch  For Steve Munisteri, who leads the Texas Republican Party,
inroads into the Latino community are measured by a growing
number of Hispanic lawmakers and candidates and an estimated 700
Hispanic delegates at the party’s June convention in  Fort Worth .  “If that isn’t a sign of welcome, I don’t know what is,”
Munisteri said. “Our message has been clear: We’d like for
everyone to participate.”  Consumer-behavior databases are used to identify Hispanics
who might be receptive to Republican overtures, Munisteri said.
One pitch he said might work:  “We are the party of entrepreneurship, and so many people
who are immigrants start small businesses and want to pursue the
American dream,” Munisteri said. “Our theme is one of
opportunity.”  Cruz is favored to win in November against Democrat Paul
Sadler, which would make him the state’s first Latino U.S.
senator.  Executing Strategy  “The political part is being executed very well,” said
Manzano of Latino Decisions. “It’s the whole difference with
the base of the party that makes Latinos feel unwelcome. The
very fact that Latinos are controversial, that in and of itself
is not appealing.”  Republicans have a shot at winning over Latinos, Manzano
said, citing  George W. Bush ’s 1998 re-election as governor, when
he won about 40 percent of Hispanic votes. In 2001, Perry
extended the outreach, signing a law to let undocumented-
immigrant residents pay lower, in-state tuition rates at public
colleges, a move he defended in Republican presidential debates
last year.  More recently, Perry has pledged to revive efforts to enact
an Arizona-style immigration law in the legislative session that
begins next year.  That approach may win with the Republican Party’s shrinking
base of non-Hispanic whites, Jillson said.  “Ten years from now, as the Anglo population continues to
decline and the Hispanic population continues to increase,
Republicans will not be able to win solely on Anglo votes,”
Jillson said. “It’s a winning strategy in the short term that
longer term is a sure loser.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  