-- Mexico Leaves Rate at 4.5% as Faster Inflation Seen Abating
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-09-07T16:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/mexico-leaves-rate-at-4-5-as-faster-inflation-seen-abating-1-.html
Mexico ’s central bank left its key
 interest rate  unchanged at a record low on forecasts that a jump
in consumer prices will slow by year end as a surge in food
costs eases.  The bank’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, kept
the overnight lending rate at 4.5 percent today for a 29th
consecutive meeting, matching the forecast of all 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. The only Group of 20 nation to leave
borrowing costs unchanged and not step up asset purchases in the
past three years will wait until at least 2014 to adjust rates,
a separate Bloomberg survey shows.  Mexico’s  inflation rate  climbed to 4.57 percent in August,
a 29-month high, after a drought and bird-flu outbreak pushed up
prices of corn, eggs and bread. Inflation has remained above the
central bank’s target range of 2 percent to 4 percent for the
past three months. While the board said today the effects of
bird flu will be temporary and inflation expectations remain
anchored, it also said that the acceleration in price increases
has been unexpected.  “Going forward, the board will remain alert to
developments in all determinants of inflation, since the
behavior of these could make an increase in the benchmark
 interest rate  advisable,” the board said in a statement
accompanying its decision. “Given the intensity of the shocks
that have affected food prices and the persisting potential for
greater turbulence in international financial markets, the board
considers the risks for short-term inflation continue to rise.”  Neutral Stance  While the central bank expressed concern about inflation,
it also said the outlook for growth has deteriorated as U.S.
economic risks increased and noted the possibility of further
global monetary easing to “unprecedented” levels.  “This is still a neutral statement,” Rafael de la Fuente,
senior economist for  Latin America  at UBS AG, said in a phone
interview from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It shows the central
bank is probably divided on how to deal with the persistence of
inflation above target and how to deal with living in an
environment where other central banks are easing policy.”  Inflation concerns have been tempered by signs the
economy’s strong start to the year is fizzling out, said David Rees, an  emerging markets  economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London .  Carstens Forecast  “We think that rates are likely to remain on hold for the
foreseeable future, with a strong possibility of cuts next year
as the economy slows,” Rees wrote in an e-mail to clients
today.  Carstens has forecast that inflation will slow to less than
4 percent by year-end, and last month said the recent jump in
food prices alone doesn’t warrant tighter monetary policy.  After rising 4.07 percent in the first half of August, egg
prices surged 15.9 percent in the second half of the month,
compared with 15.2 percent for all of July, the statistics
agency said today. White bread costs increased 3.5 percent last
month. Annual  core inflation , which excludes food and energy,
reached 3.7 percent in the month, the highest since July 2010,
according to statistics institute data.  Pablo Cisilino, who oversees $45 billion of emerging-market
debt at Stone Harbor Investment Partners, said inflation-linked
bonds, known as Udibonos, “offer great value” and will
appreciate as food prices climb.  “We have had a massive spike in food prices while energy
is also up,” Cisilino said in an e-mailed message.  Udibono Yields  Yields on Udibonos due in 2014 fell two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 0.35 percent at 10:25 a.m. in Mexico
City.  Concern that Mexico’s peso would fuel faster inflation has
declined after the currency, which tumbled 11 percent in 2011,
rallied 7.3 percent this year, the most among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The peso today climbed 0.5
percent to 12.9939 per  U.S. dollar  after earlier reaching
12.9478, the strongest intraday level since May.  “Overall inflation expectations for the medium term remain
pretty well anchored,” said  Benito Berber , a Latin America
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., who predicts the central
bank will keep rates on hold until the first quarter of 2014.
“You just look at the position of foreigners in the Mexican
 bond market  and you see they’re doing something right.”  International investor holdings of Mexican fixed-rate bonds
rose to 49.4 percent of the total outstanding on Aug. 8, the
most since February 2000, before falling to 49 percent on Aug.
27, according to the most recent data from the central bank.  Expectations Above 4%  While many investors remain confident that the recent rally
in inflation is temporary, a Sept. 3 central bank survey showed
that analysts expect inflation to end the year above the target
range for the first time this year. The median estimate was for
prices to rise 4.01 percent, compared with a forecast of 3.91
percent in the previous monthly poll.  Inflation has picked up as Mexico’s economy showed signs of
resilience amid an economic recovery in the U.S., the
destination for 80 percent of the nation’s exports.  Mexico’s economic growth beat economist forecasts in the
second quarter, expanding 0.9 percent from the first three
months of 2012, an annualized rate of 3.5 percent, as exports
increased 5.8 percent from a year earlier.  Mexico reported July’s preliminary trade deficit at $426.9
million, less than the $1 billion analysts expected. Auto
exports reached their highest levels in the first eight months
of the year for any January to August period.  The second half of 2012 may see slower expansion, with
economists expecting growth to slow to 3.4 percent in both the
third and fourth quarters, according to a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 