-- Fletcher International Will Have Bankruptcy Case Trustee
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-09-07T15:32:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/fletcher-international-will-have-bankruptcy-case-trustee.html
Fletcher International Ltd., a
bankrupt hedge fund managed by the investment firm of Alphonse “Buddy” Fletcher, will have a trustee oversee its bankruptcy,
against the wishes of its parent company.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Gerber, in a written order
entered in  Manhattan  today, approved the company’s motion to
appoint a Chapter 11 trustee after a hearing on Sept. 5.  Fletcher Asset Management Inc., the investment manager and
parent of the company, had objected, saying that an examiner
would be better to resolve a dispute in the case than a federal
trustee.  “It is in the best interest of creditors, equity security
holders and other parties in interest of the estate that a
Chapter 11 trustee be appointed,” Gerber wrote, overruling the
objection.  Other units of the company joined Fletcher International in
its request for the trustee, the judge said.  Fletcher International filed for  bankruptcy protection  June
29, listing assets of about $52.5 million and liabilities of
about $23.8 million. The numbers are uncertain, according to the
bankruptcy filing, because there is no active trading market for
some of the assets and some of the liabilities may be disputed.  Days after the filing, the company sued some of its own
Cayman Islands-based funds to block liquidators from selling
their assets.  Lawsuit’s Purpose  In that lawsuit the company seeks to stop Ernst & Young,
the official liquidator, from winding down related funds in the
 Cayman Islands . The liquidations come after three Louisiana
pension funds sued to get their money back.  Fletcher International said a trustee is needed because the
company has been “mired in litigation” over control and assets
with two of its funds, FIA Leveraged Fund and Fletcher Income
Arbitrage Fund Ltd. Settlement talks have failed and
“additional costly litigation” is inevitable, lawyers for
Fletcher International wrote.  Fletcher Asset Management said in its objection that a
better alternative would be to appoint an examiner who would
look into whether there is value in the estate or whether, as
liquidators and  Louisiana  pension funds assert, the real value
lies in suing the fund’s management.  The liquidators and the Louisiana funds contend that they
are owed more than $154 million, according to court papers.  Company Ownership  Fletcher Income Arbitrage Fund, a Cayman Islands-based fund
already in liquidation, owns 83 percent of Fletcher
International. Fletcher International has sought to block its
liquidation, saying it could disrupt the bankruptcy.  Bermuda-based Fletcher International is the “master fund”
in the structure. Founded in 1991, it began trading debt and
equity and became a specialist in arbitrage, using “master
funds” and “feeder funds,” according to court papers.  Alphonse Fletcher gained prominence on Wall Street in 2003
when his firm reported 300 percent-a-year returns, according to
the  Wall Street  Journal. A former Kidder Peabody & Co. equity
trader, he brought multiple lawsuits against his former employer
in the 1990s.  A Cayman Islands judge ordered the liquidation of two
feeder funds, including the FIA Leveraged Fund, after the
Firefighters’ Retirement System, the New Orleans Fire Fighters’
Pension & Relief Fund and the Municipal Employees’ Retirement
System of Louisiana, who had bought $100 million of shares in
FIAL in 2008, sought in January to have their investment
returned.  The bankruptcy is In re Fletcher International Ltd., 12-
12796,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 