-- Florida State Is Record 70 1/2-Point Favorite Vs Savannah
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-07T15:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/florida-state-is-record-70-1-2-point-favorite-against-savannah.html
Florida State University  is listed
as a 70 1/2-point favorite against  Savannah State  in what may be
the biggest point spread at a  Las Vegas  sports book in college
football history.  Savannah State, a 3,600-student school that plays one level
below the sport’s top echelon, opened its season last week with
an 84-0 loss at  Oklahoma State. Florida State , ranked sixth in
the Associated Press poll, is 1-0 after routing Murray State 69-
3 on Sept. 1. Its enrollment is 40,800.  The game, scheduled for tomorrow in Tallahassee, Florida,
led  Cantor Gaming  to open Savannah State as more than 10-
touchdown underdogs at its seven Las Vegas sports books.  “Everybody knows Florida State is much better than this
team, but there’s a little bit of guesswork about how long
they’re going to play their players, whether they’re going to
actually run the score up,” Mike Colbert, who sets the betting
lines for Cantor Gaming, said in a telephone interview. “I
respect anybody who actually bets it because you’re going to
have to have some gamble in you.”  RJ Bell, the founder of Las Vegas-based handicapping
information website  Pregame.com , said college football’s highest
previous game-time point spread was 60 points, with  Hawaii 
favored over Northern Colorado in 2007. Oklahoma State opened as
a 67-point favorite against Savannah State last week and went
off at -58 at kickoff, Bell said.  $10,000 Limit  Colbert said Cantor Gaming, which is owned by Cantor
Fitzgerald LP, has set a $10,000 limit for a wager on the
Florida State-Savannah State game. He said 75 percent of the
early bets have been on Savannah State and the biggest
individual wager is about $200. Cantor Gaming operates sports
books at the M Resort Spa Casino, the Hard Rock Hotel & Casino,
the Tropicana Las Vegas, the Cosmopolitan of Las Vegas and three
others owned by  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)   Colbert said if Florida State doesn’t take out its starters
and plays hard the whole game tomorrow, the Seminoles would
probably win by 100 points.  “If we were actually going to put a true number on it, it
would be closer to 80 than 70,” he said. “But with  Clemson  and
 Wake Forest  on deck -- two pretty good division rivals -- I
think Florida State will pull their guys pretty early. Then
again, their backups are better than Savannah State’s starters,
so I expect they’ll continue to score.”  Other Las Vegas sports books, such as the Las Vegas Hotel’s
Super Book, won’t put up a betting line on the game until
tomorrow.  Florida  State coach Jimbo Fisher said he’s not making
any predictions about what the score might be.  No Humiliation  “I have a problem saying, ‘OK, we’re going to win this
game by a bunch of points,’” Fisher said. “We don’t want to
ever embarrass anybody or anything of that nature.”  Savannah State had a 1-10 record last season, including 1-7
in the  Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference , which includes teams
such as Norfolk State and Bethune-Cookman, and plays in the
Football Championship Subdivision, formerly Division I-AA.  The Savannah,  Georgia , school got $385,000 for last week’s
game against Oklahoma State and will collect $475,000 for the
Florida State matchup, said spokesman Opio Mashariki. Together,
that will cover 17 percent of the school’s $5.1 million athletic
department budget.  Tigers coach Steve Davenport said his team has no illusions
about competing with nationally ranked football programs such as
Oklahoma State or Florida State.  “Our goal is to win the conference championship,”
Davenport said. “We have got another preseason game in
Tallahassee, then our season gets under way. That is where we
are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  