-- Florida High Court to Weigh $1 Billion State Pension Case
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J o r d a n   S e x t o n
-- 2012-09-07T17:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/florida-high-court-to-weigh-1-billion-state-pension-case.html
Florida lawmakers who backed
Republican-led changes to the state’s public-employee pension
system didn’t violate workers’ constitutional rights, a lawyer
told the Florida Supreme Court.  The legislature relied on earlier  high court  rulings when
it changed future benefits to save $1 billion in pension
expenses and deal with a financial crisis,  Raoul Cantero , a
lawyer for Republican Governor  Rick Scott , argued. He asked the
court to throw out a trial judge’s ruling that the reform law
was unconstitutional.  “The legislature has relied on that bright line not just
in 2011 when they were making the plans, but all throughout,”
Cantero said today in Tallahassee.  As part of a pension-reform effort that Scott pushed last
year to close a $3.6 billion budget shortfall, legislators
changed the way pensions were funded. The measure required
workers to contribute 3 percent of their pay and eliminated the
system’s cost-of-living adjustment for employees retiring after
the law took effect.  The savings were shifted to the Florida Retirement System,
which covers more than 650,000 state employees, saving general
fund money for use in other programs. The change saved the state
an estimated $1 billion for the 2011 budget year and saved local
governments $600 million.  Workers contend the pension-reform measure amounted to an
illegal salary cut and a violation of collective-bargaining
rights under existing union contracts.  Game Changer  “You can’t change the game in the middle of the game,”
Ronald Meyer, a lawyer for some of the workers challenging the
pension-reform law, told the seven-member court.  Eleven public employees covered by the $120 billion pension
system sued Scott and other Florida officials last year over the
changes to their  retirement plan . The employees include members
of AFSCME Florida, the  Florida Police Benevolent Association  and
the Florida Education Association.  Florida Circuit Judge  Jackie Fulford  in Tallahassee
concluded in March the pension law violated the state’s
agreements with government employees and ordered contributions
returned with interest.  The law amounted to an “unconstitutional taking of private
property without full compensation and an abridgment of the
rights of public employees to collectively bargain over
conditions of employment,” Fulford ruled.  The state’s highest court agreed to hear the case on an
expedited basis because it presented “issues of great public
importance.”  ‘Huge Budgetary Hole’  If the  Supreme Court  declines to overrule Fulford’s ruling,
state officials will be “forced to find ways fill a huge
budgetary hole,” Lane Wright, a spokesman for Scott, said in an
interview earlier this week.  To rule for employees, the court would have to “throw out
30 years’ worth of law that says the legislature has the power
to change the pension system,” he added.  Jesse Panuccio, Scott’s general counsel, told reporters
outside the courtroom today that the changes were nothing more
than “common-sense pension reform” and that the “law is on
our side.”  Senate Minority Leader Nan Rich, a Democrat, countered in
an interview earlier this week that Republican lawmakers didn’t
exhaust other possible ways of covering the budget shortfall
before moving to violate existing union contracts.  “The Republican leadership sells itself as friends of the
middle class while paring down their ability to have decent
wages and benefits to support their families,” Rich said in an
interview. “Their focus has been on cutting and not a balance
between cutting and looking at new revenues.”  Poverty Concerns  AFSCME Legislative Director Doug Martin said the change in
pension law will affect employees’ financial security in the
future.  “This is about keeping future public employees out of
poverty when they retire,” Martin said.  The high-profile pension fight has drawn the attention of
lobbying groups, including  Florida Tax Watch  and  the National
Conference on Public Employee Retirement Systems , or NCPERS,
which filed so-called friend-of-the-court briefs in the case.  If the pension-reform measure is overturned, it would add
to the state’s budget shortfall and could adversely affect
 Florida ’s credit rating, the anti-tax group claimed.  “Should Florida’s credit rating be downgraded, it would
cost the state more money to finance its borrowing to the
detriment of the taxpayer, who would shoulder the burden of
paying more for the same set of services for several years to
come,” lawyers for the group said.  ‘Reasonable Alternatives’  Florida’s pension had assets of $136.4 billion to meet
projected retiree obligations of $153.5 billion as of June 30,
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Attorneys for Washington-based NCPERS argued that Scott and
Florida lawmakers didn’t show that the pension-reform measure
was the only way to close the budget gap.  They contend the U.S. Supreme Court has found that, for
states to change existing pension contracts, officials must show
such reforms were “reasonable and necessary.”  Fulford, the lower court judge, properly concluded “other
reasonable alternatives existed to preserve the state’s
contract” with employees, NCPERS’s lawyers said.  Mark Wilson , president of the pro-business Florida Chamber
of Commerce, said in a statement this week that public employee
benefits exceed their private-sector counterparts.  “With Florida continuing to have a higher  unemployment
rate  than the national average and many Floridians underemployed
and barely making ends meet, it’s only fair to ask for public
employees to help pay some of their own retirement costs,”
Wilson said.  ‘Class Warfare’  Florida PBA Executive Director Matt Puckett, whose
association represents 24,000 police officers across the state,
said the pension initiative is a form of “class warfare.”  The legislature, with both houses controlled by
Republicans, “did it to the public employees for the very
reason because they could,” Puckett said.  The case is Scott v. Williams, SC122-520, Florida Supreme
Court (Tallahassee).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jordan Sexton in the Florida Supreme Court in
Tallahassee at  christinesextonwork@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  