-- Ford’s Mulally Flexes American Muscle for European Repair
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-09-07T20:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/ford-s-mulally-flexes-american-muscle-for-european-repair-job.html
To cure its ills in Europe,  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  is turning to some classic American iron -- sport-
utility vehicles and Mustangs.  Ford, which has said it will lose more than $1 billion in
Europe this year, said yesterday it will unleash its Mustang
sports car on Europe soon and is tripling its SUV offerings in a
continent that once spurned such vehicles as symbols of U.S.
excess. Now Ford sees Europeans embracing more modern and fuel-
efficient versions of guzzlers gone by.  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  dramatically announced
the Mustang news by flashing a symbol of its galloping pony logo
on an overhead screen at the end of a new model show for dealers
at the Ziggo Dome in Amsterdam. As a disembodied Mustang engine
roared over the loud speakers, so too did the dealers.  “You saw that reaction just from putting the Mustang
symbol up,” Mulally said in an interview afterward. “We’ve
always talked about taking the Mustang outside the  United
States . In Europe, it makes a good business case because so many
people want it.”  Ford rose 2.3 percent to $10.14 in  New York , the highest
closing price in more than two months.  The business case for selling SUVs is just as compelling as
the Mustang, Mulally said. Ford expects the market for SUVs in
 Europe  to double by 2017 and the Dearborn, Michigan-based
automaker expects to sell more than 1 million of the models in
the region over the next six years.  “I don’t see an Edge-sized vehicle or a Mustang as being
particularly high volume products in Europe.” said Ed Kim, an
analyst for industry forecaster AutoPacific Inc. in Tustin,
 California .  Stigma Outdated  Mulally said the stigma of SUVs as monsters of the motorway
is going away because Ford is bringing smaller, leaner models to
Europe. It’s adding the subcompact EcoSport SUV, just four
meters (13 feet, 1 inch) long, and the Edge midsized utility to
its European lineup, which already includes the Kuga compact,
known in the U.S. as the Escape.  “Now an SUV is seen as big and gas-guzzling,” Mulally
said. “But these are wonderful fuel-efficient smaller vehicles
with all this versatility.”  European attitudes began changing after  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
introduced the compact RAV4 and Honda Motor Co. debuted the CR-V
small SUV in the last decade, said  Jim Farley , Ford’s global
marketing chief and a former Toyota sales executive. Those
models, along with the Kuga and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s compact Tiguan,
made it socially acceptable for Europeans to drive an SUV.  “There wasn’t as much guilt about owning those,” Farley
said in an interview.  Segment Growing  SUVs are gaining share in Europe’s collapsing auto market,
Farley said. Auto sales are falling to a 17-year low in the
region as a sovereign-debt crisis saps  consumer confidence . The
only growing auto segments are luxury cars and sport-utility
vehicles, which both sell for premium prices, he said.  “The people who are left in the market are rich people,”
Farley said. “They tend to buy the newer models or the very
nice cars. That’s why in Europe you’ll see the luxury
manufacturers are still doing OK.”  Ford is no longer in the luxury-car business in Europe,
having sold its Jaguar,  Aston Martin ,  Land Rover  and Volvo
brands over the last five years. So it’s playing to its historic
strength in SUVs, which it helped pioneer in the 1990s with the
Explorer, among the first of the breed and a top seller.  “Explorer changed the world,” Mulally said. “We own that
space, right? Everybody knows that we understand SUVs.”  Mustang Muscle  Ford also pioneered pony cars with the introduction of the
Mustang in 1964, and it appeared in  Switzerland  in that year’s
 James Bond  movie “Goldfinger.” Such models, though, never
seemed a good fit in Europe, where gasoline prices can top $10 a
gallon.  Ford now offers a version of the  Mustang  with a 6-cylinder
engine that gets 31 miles (50 kilometers) per gallon on the
highway, while still generating 305 horsepower. It also offers
the $42,200 Mustang Boss 302 that gets 15 mpg in the city from
its brutish 444-horsepower V8.  “It’s an open secret that the next-generation Mustang will
include an EcoBoost engine and that would certainly enhance the
appeal in Europe,” said Kim, the analyst, referring to the
automaker’s direct-injected, turbocharged engines that reduce
fuel consumption by as much as 20 percent while adding power.  Mulally is mum on which Mustang he’ll bring to Europe and
exactly when it will show up. What he is clear about is his
conviction that Europeans are eager for some American muscle.  “The Mustang has been wanted everywhere around the
world,” he said. “It’s iconic, everybody knows about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Amsterdam at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  