-- Forint Drops 4th Week on Orban Rejection of IMF Bailout Criteria
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-09-07T12:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/forint-drops-4th-week-on-orban-rejection-of-imf-bailout-criteria.html
The forint headed for a fourth week
of declines after Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  rejected
European Union and International Monetary Fund conditions for
aid and the country’s recession deepened.  The currency depreciated less than 0.1 percent to 286.98
per euro by 1:08 p.m. in Budapest, extending its losses this
week to 1 percent. The yield on the government’s benchmark 10-
year bonds fell four basis points to 7.501 percent after jumping
13 basis points, or 0.13 percentage point, yesterday.  Hungary  needs and will obtain a  credit line  from the IMF
yet the government won’t accept the conditions currently
demanded for the aid, Prime Minister Viktor Orban said in an
interview on MR1 radio today. The country’s gross domestic
product slumped 1.3 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, compared with a 1.2 percent preliminary estimate, the
statistics office in Budapest said today.  “Sooner or later the aid talks will continue, Orban is
only playing, it isn’t in his interest to kill it off,” Levente Blaho and Adam Keszeg, analysts at  Raiffeisen Bank International
AG (RBI) , wrote in a research report today. “At the same time, it
will probably take weeks to resume talks, and in the meantime
Hungarian markets will remain fragile.”  The government “needs to do everything” to reach an aid
agreement, Antal Rogan, the parliamentary leader of Orban’s
Fidesz party, said today after a three-day party meeting in
Sarvar, western Hungary, in comments carried by HirTV.  The ruling party backs “targeted” spending cuts requested
by the international lenders, such as for the reduction of state
bureaucracy, while rejecting the trimming of pensions or
scrapping plans for payroll tax cuts, Rogan said.  Emerging-market stocks rose the most in a month yesterday
after ECB President  Mario Draghi  said policy makers agreed to an
unlimited and sterilized bond-purchase program, easing concern
the region’s debt crisis will curb exports from developing
nations.  Hungary’s cost to insure debt with credit-default swaps
fell 13 basis points to 389, the lowest since August 2011.  “The global yield hunt heated up again with the ECB
announcing a new bond-purchase program,” Raiffeisen’s Keszeg
wrote in a separate research note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  