-- Four Regional Banks Discuss Settlement Over Foreclosures
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-09-07T16:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/four-regional-banks-discuss-settlement-over-foreclosures.html
U.S. state attorneys general are
pressing four banks to accept a legal settlement over botched
foreclosures similar to a deal reached with larger competitors
this year, according to three people briefed on the matter.  U.S. Bancorp (SFBC) ,  PNC Financial Services Group (PNC)  Inc.,  SunTrust
Banks Inc. (STI)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  have held talks with state and
federal officials who investigated claims that loan servicers
mishandled foreclosure documents, according to the people, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are private.  Neil Brazil , a spokesman for HSBC’s North America unit,
said in an e-mail that the London-based lender has conducted
“preliminary discussions with its bank regulators and other
governmental agencies” and that “the timing of any settlement
is not presently known.”  State attorneys general led by  Tom Miller , a Democrat from
 Iowa , began an investigation of mortgage servicers in October
2010 after reports that practices including “robo-signing” had
led to improper foreclosures. The probe led to a settlement in
February among the five biggest servicers --  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  Bank of America Corp. 
and Ally Financial Inc. -- and 49 states and the federal
government.  Michael McCoy , a spokesman for Atlanta-based SunTrust,
declined to comment, as did Frederick Solomon, a spokesman for
Pittsburgh-based PNC and Tom Joyce, a spokesman for Minneapolis-
based U.S. Bancorp.  Repurchase Reserves  The effects of the housing market collapse continue to be
felt by these and other banks, not only on mortgage servicing.
SunTrust said today it would set aside $375 million to
repurchase faulty loans it may have originated, following PNC,
which set aside $350 million in June.  The deal with the five largest mortgage servicers is valued
at $25 billion, including $5 billion in payments to states and
$20 billion that banks will use to compensate borrowers who lost
their homes to foreclosures, forgive debt, give payment
forbearances, arrange short sales and refinance mortgages at
lower rates. It also specified new standards for fair servicing
of mortgages. In return, the banks received limited protection
from state litigation.  “The jury is still out on whether this gets fixed or
whether the attorneys general will have to go after them,”  Ira Rheingold , executive director of the National Association of
Consumer Advocates, said in an interview.  Settlement Resisted  The attorneys general made efforts to get the four smaller
banks to join the February agreement -- with proportionally
smaller payments -- before striking the deal with only the big
five, one of the people briefed on the talks said.  In the last few months, the AGs have resumed the pressure
on the smaller banks. In early August, they met in Washington
with federal officials from the  Department of Justice  and the
Department of Housing and Urban Development, and 12 state
attorneys general including Miller.  Mortgage servicers typically handle billing and
collections, as well as foreclosures when borrowers fail to pay.
The four regional banks, whose mortgage portfolios are far
smaller than those of the five larger banks, say the states have
yet to demonstrate that a settlement would be more beneficial
than letting banks handle customers’ problems individually,
according to the people briefed on the talks.  Market Share  Of the four banks, U.S. Bancorp has the largest share of
the mortgage servicing market, with 2.5 percent in the second
quarter of 2012, according to data from Inside Mortgage Finance,
a trade publication. SunTrust had 1.5 percent, while PNC had 1.3
percent and HSBC 0.9 percent.  By contrast, Wells Fargo had 18.5 percent in the second
quarter of the year, while Bank of America had 15.8 percent.  Miller spokesman Geoff Greenwood declined to comment, as
did HUD’s  Brian Sullivan  and Adora Andy at the Department of
Justice.  While the banks are resisting joining a deal, some have set
aside funds for a possible settlement. Minneapolis-based U.S.
Bancorp said in a filing for the quarter ended June 30 that it
had accrued $130 million in reserves for any deal.  “If a settlement were reached it would likely include an
agreement to comply with specified servicing standards, and
settlement payments to governmental authorities as well as a
monetary commitment that could be satisfied under various loan
modification programs,” according to the filing.  Last year, HSBC -- which has U.S. branches in states
including Florida and New Jersey --  set aside  $257 million as
its “estimated liability” in any settlement. PNC in January
set aside $240 million for costs tied to residential mortgage
foreclosures as a result of “ongoing governmental matters,”
the company said in January.  Also in January, SunTrust said it couldn’t estimate the
cost of any potential settlement with state  attorneys general .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  