-- Franc Falls to 8-Month Low Versus Euro on ECB Bond-Purchase Plan
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-09-07T13:51:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/franc-falls-to-8-month-low-versus-euro-on-ecb-bond-purchase-plan.html
The Swiss franc dropped to the
weakest level in almost eight months against the euro as the
 European Central Bank ’s bond-purchase plan reduced demand for
safer assets.  The franc fell for a fifth day versus the 17-nation euro
after the  Swiss National Bank ’s foreign-exchange reserves
increased at a slower pace last month, suggesting there was less
need for it to intervene and weaken the currency. The central
bank put a cap on the franc of 1.20 per euro in September 2011
to stop it from rising and to protect exporters.  “The ECB actions are taking away tail risks from the euro
zone,” said Bernd Berg, a currency strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in Zurich. Speculators betting against the floor are
“getting squeezed out of long franc-euro safe-haven
positions.” A long position is a bet an asset will rise.  The franc fell 0.4 percent to 1.2093 per euro at 2:48 p.m.
in  London  after depreciating to 1.2155, the weakest level since
Jan. 9. The Swiss currency appreciated 0.6 percent to 94.79
centimes per dollar.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  announced the bond-purchase plan
yesterday, saying it would focus on government notes with
maturities of one to three years. The ECB will only intervene in
the secondary market if a country has asked  Europe ’s bailout
fund to purchase its debt, he said.  The Swiss National Bank said today its foreign-currency
holdings rose to 418.4 billion francs at the end of August, from
408.6 billion francs the previous month, according to a
statement published on the bank’s website.  ‘Significantly Lower’  That increase “was significantly lower than in the
previous three months, suggesting that the SNB faced less
pressure to defend the floor,” Barclays Plc foreign-exchange
strategists Raghav Subbarao and Guillermo Felices in London,
wrote in an e-mailed note to clients.  The ECB announcement and the foreign-currency reserve data,
which were both “at the optimistic end of the spectrum of
possible outcomes,” came in “quick succession, and combined
with short market positioning, led to a sharp move” in the
franc, the strategists wrote.  The franc has weakened 6.4 percent in the past year, the
worst performer of the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro declined 5.9
percent, and the dollar gained 4.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  