-- France’s Hollande Confirms 3% Budget Deficit Target for 2013
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-09-07T10:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/france-s-hollande-confirms-3-budget-deficit-target-for-2013.html
The French government will stick
with its commitment to narrow the fiscal deficit to 3 percent of
economic output next year, President  Francois Hollande  said,
promising the most drastic budget cuts in 30 years.  Hollande, speaking in Paris to the state auditors today,
said the 33 billion euros ($42 billion) of savings needed to hit
the target will include 10 billion euros of spending cuts.  “Part of our increased deficit comes from the crisis, but
the crisis does not explain everything,” Hollande said. “The
worsening of our public accounts is in large measure
structural.”  The government is due to present its 2013 budget on Sept.
26. The deficit hit 5.2 percent of output last year and debt
reached 90 percent, up from 1.6 percent and 60 percent
respectively, 10 years earlier.  Hollande alluded to plans announced by the  European Central
Bank  to buy the debt of troubled European countries, saying the
move did not “absolve governments of their responsibilities.”  He also proposed a new body to oversee the implementation
of the French government’s budget and its economic forecasts.  The new body, called the “Haut Conseil des Finances
Publiques,” or “High Council of Public Finances,” would be
led by the head of the state auditors and include four judges
from the state audit body and four figures named by parliament.  “Too many governments have let themselves be guided by
forecasts that were excessively optimistic,” Hollande said.  The French Finance Ministry this morning said the general
 budget deficit  in the first seven months of the year widened to
63.8 billion euros from 59.1 billion euros in the same period a
year earlier.  “The recent slowdown in economic activity seems to have
taken a toll on the  France ’s budget data, particularly affecting
corporate tax and income tax revenues, down from last year,
while  government spending  is on an uptrend,” Thomas Costerg, an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank Plc in  London , said in an
e-mailed comment. “It’s a clear wake-up call ahead of the draft
of the 2013 budget.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  