-- France Will Shut Fessenheim as Soon as Possible, Batho Says
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-09-07T10:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/france-will-shut-fessenheim-as-soon-as-possible-batho-says-1-.html
Electricite de  France  SA’s oldest
nuclear plant will be shut as soon as possible as a pilot for
dismantling atomic sites, Energy Minister Delphine Batho said.  “Fessenheim will close as soon as possible under
technically and socially responsible conditions that will
guarantee security of electricity supply, transformation of the
site and jobs,” Batho told France Info radio today. The timing
will result from a national debate on energy in coming months.  President  Francois Hollande  pledged in this year’s election
campaigning to shutter the plant before the end of his five-year
term as part of a policy of curbing reliance on atomic energy.
The Fukushima nuclear meltdown in  Japan  last year prompted
concerns that Fessenheim, near France’s eastern border with
 Germany , may not be strong enough to withstand an earthquake.  The atomic safety regulator, Autorite de Surete Nucleaire,
has ordered EDF to reinforce the concrete base of Fessenheim’s
900-megawatt reactors by mid-2013 or shutter the facility. EDF’s
plans for the work, seeking to strengthen containment in the
event of a core meltdown, are being considered by ASN.  EDF will push ahead with plans for the work even though the
plant is slated to be closed by the government, it has said.  “We will make Fessenheim a sort of pilot site for the
dismantling industry,” Batho said. “There will be a number of
reactors in the world closing and this is a challenge for
industry.” France “will continue to need nuclear.”  Supply Challenge  France faces a shortage of capacity within three years, in
part as Fessenheim and outdated coal plants are shut, Reseau de
Transport d’Electricite, EDF’s grid unit, said this week. Power
supply will be a “challenge” around Fessenheim in Germany and
France if it’s closed, RTE President Dominique Maillard said.  “The impact on French power supply security and on EDF
revenues should be limited,” said  Chris Rogers , a Bloomberg
Industries European utility analyst. “It’s a small part of the
fleet and will be the only plant closed in the next few years.”  EDF plans to start commercial output in 2016 at a 1,650-
megawatt EPR atomic plant being built in Flamanville, Normandy.
Hollande pledged to cut dependence on nuclear to 50 percent of
power output by about 2025 from more than three-quarters now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  