-- Gasoline Rises as Refinery Outages Tighten Inventories
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-09-07T18:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/gasoline-rises-as-jobs-report-boosts-fed-stimulus-bet.html
Gasoline rose as refiners worked to
increase production after disruptions caused by Hurricane Isaac
reduced U.S. stockpiles to the lowest level since 2008.  Prices gained after plants in the Gulf Coast operated last
week at the lowest level since January. Almost one-quarter of
U.K. refining capacity is expected to shut in October for
planned work, reducing shipments to the East Coast. Tropical
Storm Leslie is moving north up the coast and may reach
Newfoundland by the middle of next week, the National Hurricane
Center said in an advisory at 2 p.m. East Coast time.  “Gasoline couldn’t look more bullish,” said  Andrew Lebow ,
a senior vice president at Jefferies Bache LLC in  New York .
“You have sluggish refinery restarts in the Gulf Coast, stocks
are already low, you’re getting into turnaround in the U.K. and
Leslie is clearly an issue.”  October-delivery reformulated gasoline, or RBOB, advanced
4.31 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $3.0341 a gallon at 1:26 p.m. on
the  New York Mercantile exchange . Prices have declined 2.3
percent this week.  Spot RBOB in New York jumped 12.12 cents to 35 cents over
the October contract, the highest level in almost four years.  Isaac was a Category 1 hurricane that made landfall in
Louisiana Aug. 29, causing flooding and power losses and the
closure of seven refineries, representing 13 percent of  Gulf
Coast  refining capacity, and the reduction of rates at four
other plants.  Refineries Starting  As of today, three Louisiana refineries shut because of the
hurricane were restarting and another six were operating at
reduced rates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gulf
Coast refinery utilization dropped to 82.2 percent last week
from 91.4 percent a week earlier, according to department data.  In the PADD 1 region, which includes New York Harbor, the
delivery point of Nymex futures, stockpiles are 6.6 percent
below a year earlier.  “We’re very tight in the harbor and it doesn’t look like
there’s any serious relief,” Lebow said.  Futures also gained as the U.S. added fewer than expected
jobs in August, increasing speculation that the  Federal Reserve 
will provide additional fiscal stimulus to boost the economy.  The Labor Department reported an increase of 96,000 jobs
last month, following a revised 141,000 rise in July that was
smaller than initially estimated. Pacific Investment Management
Co.’s  Bill Gross  said the report will move the Fed closer to
more quantitative easing.  “It seems the report started to fan the flames we’ll have
some announcement about a stimulus next week,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Unemployment Rate  The median estimate of 92 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for jobs to increase by 130,000. Unemployment fell to 8.1
percent from 8.3 percent as 368,000 Americans left the  labor
force .  “The report showed the economy added fewer jobs than
expected and that more people are leaving the workforce, which
increases speculation that the Federal Reserve will move to
stimulate the economy,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank may need to do more. The Fed meets Sept. 12-13.  Policy makers will give “strong hints” or provide
“positive action” at next week’s rate-setting meeting, Gross,
who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.1
cent to $3.822 a gallon yesterday, AAA data showed. Prices are
up 49.6 cents from the year-to-date low of $3.326 on July 1.  Heating oil for October delivery rose 0.36 cent to $3.1461
a gallon on the exchange. Prices are down 0.7 percent this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 