-- German Industrial Output Unexpectedly Increased in July
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-09-07T11:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/german-industrial-output-unexpectedly-increased-in-july.html
German industrial production
unexpectedly rose in July, adding to signs that  Europe ’s largest
economy is weathering the region’s debt crisis.  Production rose 1.3 percent from June, when it fell a
revised 0.4 percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today.
Economists forecast unchanged production, the median of 39
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  showed. Output fell 1.4
percent from a year earlier when adjusted for working days.  Today’s report is the third to suggest the economy made a
good start to the third quarter, with factory orders and exports
also rising in July. Still, growth slowed in the second quarter
and business confidence has dropped for four straight months as
the debt crisis dents demand for German goods in other euro-area
countries.  “German companies were holding up well amidst euro-zone
turmoil,” said  Andreas Rees , chief  Germany  economist at
UniCredit in Munich. “While we do not expect drastic decreases
in overall industrial activity, it is only a question of time
before hard data will reflect what we already know from business
sentiment figures -- a loss in momentum in coming months.”  Output of investment goods increased 3.8 percent in July
after dropping 1.5 percent in June, today’s report showed.
Construction activity rose 1.9 percent and consumer goods
production fell 0.4 percent. June industrial production was
revised up from the 0.9 percent drop initially reported.  ‘Revived Somewhat’  “Manufacturing production has revived somewhat,” the
Economy Ministry said in an e-mailed statement. “Orders so far
this year are stable, although the mood there is subdued.”
There are indications that industrial production “will continue
to prove robust,” it said.  Factory orders rose 0.5 percent in July, the ministry said
yesterday, as domestic demand for investment goods helped offset
a decline in sales to the euro area. The Federal Statistics
Office said today that exports also increased 0.5 percent that
month. Economists had predicted a 0.5 percent decline.  Still, the effects of the crisis in the euro area are
catching up with German manufacturers.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s
largest car maker, reduced its internal sales forecast for 2012
by as many as 100,000 vehicles as the turmoil saps demand,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  German unemployment edged higher for a fifth month in
August, even as the jobless rate held at a two-decade low of 6.8
percent.  Economic Slowdown  Economic growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the second quarter
from 0.5 percent in the first.  The Bundesbank, which in June predicted German growth of 1
percent this year, said on Aug. 20 that uncertainty in the euro
area “could have a more negative impact on economic activity in
Germany in the second half of the year.”  “In the next few months we are expecting a noticeable
deterioration in industrial production,” said  Ralph Solveen ,
head of economic research at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The
German economy is slowing and could even contract slightly in
the second half of the year.”  The European Central Bank yesterday agreed an unlimited
bond-buying program that aims to backstop countries like  Spain .
Global currency, stock and bond markets rallied on optimism that
Europe’s debt crisis, now in its third year, can be brought
under control.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  