-- Glencore’s New Xstrata Offer May Help Save Bankers’ Year
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-09-07T14:58:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/glencore-s-new-xstrata-offer-may-help-save-bankers-year.html
Ivan Glasenberg, the billionaire
chief executive officer of  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , may have
salvaged more than his proposed merger with  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  by
raising his offer for the mining company.  The attempt to rescue the deal may help six investment
banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  keep an
estimated $130 million in fees threatened when Qatar Holding
LLC, the Persian Gulf sovereign wealth fund that owns 12 percent
of Xstrata, objected to the initial terms. The Glencore-Xstrata
combination, which would create the world’s fourth-largest
mining company, is at $36 billion the largest announced merger
of the year by far.  To be sure, Glencore’s new proposal still faces obstacles.
In a statement today, Xstrata expressed concerns about the
premium being offered to its shareholders and the possibility of
Glasenberg becoming CEO of the combined company.  Europe ’s banks are suffering as the region’s sovereign debt
crisis depresses markets and holds big corporations back from
mergers, acquisitions and initial public offerings. Even with
the Glencore-Xstrata deal, the total volume of takeovers in
Europe this year has fallen 22 percent, to $321 billion, with
just one other transaction --  GDF Suez (GSZ) ’s proposed buyout of the
U.K.’s International Power Plc -- valued at more than $10
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  New Proposal  Glencore today proposed increasing the ratio of its own
shares to be exchanged for Xstrata’s to 3.05 from 2.8, just
minutes before a meeting of Xstrata investors that could have
voted down the original offer, which was announced in February.
Glasenberg, 55, initiated negotiations overnight with Qatar
Holding, people familiar with the discussions said, after the
CEO insisted last month that he was prepared to let the deal
fail if Qatar refused to drop its opposition.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Deutsche
Bank and Nomura International Plc are working with Xstrata,
while Citigroup and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are advising Glencore. Qatar
Holding has tapped Lazard Ltd. for advice.  Glencore and Xstrata’s advisers have as much as $130
million in fees riding on the merger’s success, according to
data from New York-based research firm Freeman & Co. If the deal
fails, the advisers could take in as little as 10 percent of
that sum, as well as a share of the 298 million-pound ($477
million) breakup fee. Qatar Holding is probably paying Lazard a
flat fee of about $2 million, Freeman said.  “This will be a sigh of relief for the M&A industry as a
whole,” said Scott Moeller, a professor at  City University  of
London’s Cass Business School. “That’s especially true because
there’s been a history over the past few years of the largest
deals not being completed.”  Failed Mergers  Of the three biggest mining mergers announced since 2007,
two have failed: BHP Billiton Ltd.’s proposed $115 billion
merger with Rio Tinto Plc and its $43 billion offer for  Canada ’s
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan. In the same period, failed mega-
deals involving European companies have also included Prudential
Plc’s $35.5 billion takeover of insurance firm AIA Group Ltd.
and AT&T Inc.’s scrapped $39 billion acquisition of Deutsche
Telekom AG’s T-Mobile USA unit.  European banks, which have cut about 172,000 positions
since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and non-
European firms with significant operations in the region are
scaling down their investment banking units. Tokyo-based Nomura,
which broke onto the scene as a global investment banking player
with its 2008 purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
European and Asian unit, announced this week that it’s looking
to derive almost half the savings in a $1 billion cost-cutting
plan in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in  London  at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  