-- Glencore Delays Investor Vote on $34 Billion Xstrata Deal
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-09-07T08:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/glencore-adjourns-shareholder-vote-on-33-billion-xstrata-deal.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  adjourned
a shareholder meeting called to vote on its $34 billion offer
for  Xstrata (XTA)  Plc, raising prospects the biggest publicly traded
commodities supplier will increase its bid.  The postponement followed developments overnight, Chairman
 Simon Murray  told shareholders in Zug,  Switzerland . Shares of
Xstrata jumped as much as 6.3 percent while Glencore fell as
investors bet that the trader will give in to investor demands 
to boost its offer.  Xstrata investors including Qatar Holding LLC and Knight
Vinke Asset Management LLC have sought a higher bid and last
month said they would vote against Glencore Chief Executive Ivan Glasenberg’s current offer of 2.8 shares. In bidding for
Xstrata, the largest exporter of power-station coal, Glasenberg
is seeking to complete a five-year plan to create the world’s
fourth-biggest mining company.  “The market has assumed that the terms of the offer from
Glencore could change, so the market has pushed Glencore down
and Xstrata up,”  Peter Davey , head of metals and mining
research at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in London, told Bloomberg
Television in an interview. “Is he going to do an 11th-hour or
13th-hour change of terms? Will he come in with a slam-dunk
offer and come in over three” shares for each in Xstrata?  Xstrata gained 4.5 percent to 1,023 pence at 9 a.m. in
London after falling 6 percent earlier. Glencore dropped 2.9 
percent to 381.05 pence after earlier falling as much as 7 
percent. It requested that trading in its shares be halted. 
Xstrata stock traded at 2.69 times that of Glencore, up from 
a ratio of 2.5 yesterday.  Discount Narrows  The discount at which Xstrata trades below the bid tumbled
to as little as 2.1 percent from yesterday’s close of 10.9
percent, indicating traders are betting it’s more likely the
deal is completed. The difference to the offer terms hasn’t been
that narrow since May 10.  “Glencore is considering its options and will update the
market in due course,” the Baar, Switzerland-based company said
in a statement after the adjournment.  It’s the second time Glencore’s meeting has been
rescheduled after Qatar Holding surprised analysts and investors
in June by calling for a higher offer. Xstrata CEO  Mick Davis 
had encouraged Glencore and Qatar Holding to reach a resolution
ahead of the vote, according to people familiar with the 
situation.  Ivan Glasenberg  Qatar Holding, controlled by the Persian Gulf state’s royal
family and the owner of 12 percent of Xstrata, has said it will
block the 21.2 billion-pound deal. The fund has called for
Glencore’s offer of 2.8 shares for each Xstrata share to be
raised to 3.25. Glasenberg has said he doesn’t understand the
fund’s position and has rejected calls from Qatar and other
investors to raise the bid.  Murray apologized to Glencore shareholders as they approved
the adjournment by a show of hands. “I’m afraid that I have to
tell you that there has been an adjournment because of
developments, very recent developments overnight,” he said.
“We’ve been unable to give you warning. My apologies again for
bringing you here under what would be almost false pretenses.”  Xstrata investors are due to meet at 10 a.m.  London  time at
the Theatre-Casino in Zug where the company is based. A 75
percent acceptance level is needed for the takeover to proceed.
A spokesman for Glencore declined to comment further.  “Investors should not underestimate Glencore’s ability to
engineer a bump in the agreed ratio to three shares or the
possibility of a last-minute deal with Qatar,” Alain William, a
Paris-based analyst at Societe Generale SA, said in a note
yesterday.  Blocking Vote  Votes from as little as 16.48 percent of Xstrata’s shares
would be sufficient to block the deal because Glencore can’t
vote its 34 percent stake under the terms of the deal, which was
announced in February.  Xstrata is being advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Bank
International Plc. Glencore, which has agreed to pay Xstrata a
so-called break fee of 298 million pounds should it withdraw the
offer, has tapped Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley. Qatar
Holding has been advised by  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  