-- Glencore Increases Xstrata Offer
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-09-07T16:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/glencore-raises-xstrata-bid-seeks-to-install-glasenberg-as-ceo.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  raised
its offer for mining company  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  by 9 percent in a bid
to salvage the $36 billion takeover and overcome opposition from
investors including Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund.  The revised offer of 3.05 Glencore shares for each Xstrata
share, a 17.6 percent premium, is “significantly lower than
would be expected in a takeover,” Zug, Switzerland-based
Xstrata said today in a statement responding to the proposal.  Glencore, owner of 34 percent of Xstrata, had offered 2.8
of its shares in February in an all-stock offer. Under today’s
revised proposal, Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg would be CEO in the combined group, reversing a plan
for Xstrata’s Mick Davis to hold the position.  Qatar Holding LLC and Knight Vinke Asset Management LLC had
sought a higher price for their Xstrata shares and said they
would vote against the year’s biggest takeover. Glencore is
seeking to complete a five-year plan to create the fourth-
largest mining company.  “What is unknown is whether Xstrata shareholders would
follow the board’s view should it recommend against
acceptance,”  Tony Robson , an analyst at BMO Capital Markets,
wrote in a report today. Xstrata’s board may find it difficult
to rebuff the new proposal given it agreed to Glencore’s earlier
bid of 2.8 shares, BMO said.  Qatar was unaware that Glencore would seek to drop plans to
install Xstrata’s Davis as CEO of a merged group, according to 
two people with knowledge of the talks. While Qatar is broadly 
supportive of Glencore’s new terms for the takeover, it doesn’t 
agree with the proposed change to the CEO role, the people said, 
declining to be identified as the matter is confidential.  A Qatar Holding spokesman declined to comment.  Xstrata Shares  Xstrata gained 3.6 percent to close at 1,014 pence in
 London  after earlier rising as much as 11 percent. Glencore
dropped 3.6 percent to 378.05 pence after earlier falling as
much as 7 percent. Xstrata stock traded at 2.68 times that of
Glencore, up from a ratio of 2.5 yesterday.  The offer values the Xstrata shares Glencore doesn’t
already own at $36 billion at current prices.  It includes the option of changing the offer to a takeover
from a so-called scheme of arrangement. That would reduce the
level of acceptances needed to complete a deal to more than 50
percent, compared with 75 percent using a scheme of arrangement.  “The intention to replace  Mick Davis  as CEO and to amend
the management incentive arrangements represents significant
risk around the retention of the Xstrata senior and operational
management,” Xstrata said. The company will decide whether to
reconvene shareholder meetings once it gets a “detailed
proposal,” it said.  Growth Prospects  Glencore and Xstrata shareholders today both voted to
adjourn shareholder meetings to vote on the earlier plan. UBS AG
analyst Myles Allsop said Sept. 3 it was unlikely Xstrata’s
board would agree to switching the offer from a scheme to a
takeover.  Standard Life Plc (SL/) , which owns 1.4 percent of Xstrata and
0.8 percent of Glencore, said today it backed the new offer.
“We are supportive of the improved terms and the changes to the
executive governance arrangements,”  David Cumming , head of
equities at Standard Life Investments, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The deal will, we believe, enhance the growth
prospects of the combined group.”  Qatar Holding, controlled by the Persian Gulf state’s royal
family and the owner of 12 percent of Xstrata, became Glencore’s
biggest obstacle to completing the deal. The fund had called for
Glencore’s original offer to be raised to 3.25.  Better Deal  The higher bid comes a week after Qatar said it supported
the deal in principle though reaffirmed its opposition to the
original terms. The fund “believes that Xstrata has a strong
future, whether in combination with Glencore on acceptable terms
or as a stand-alone entity, and that its shares represent an
attractive long-term investment,” it said Aug. 30.  “We still consider this a better deal for shareholders in
Glencore than in Xstrata but this is closer to our fair value
estimate,” Paul Gait, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote
in a note today. It’s a “good deal for Glencore as it would
improve Glencore’s operational asset portfolio and provide
access to Xstrata’s talented operational management.”  Glasenberg, 55, is Glencore’s largest shareholder with
about 15.7 percent. The accountant turned coal trader had
repeatedly rebuffed calls to raise his offer, which was agreed
on with Xstrata’s board even as Qatar continued to build its
stake. As recently as Aug. 21 Glasenberg said he was ready to
move on from the deal rather than overpay.  South Africa  A combination would reunite two groups that separated a
decade ago when Xstrata bought Glencore’s Australian and South
African coal mines for $2.5 billion and went public in London.
Under the original plan it would’ve brought together their two
South African CEOs in Davis and Glasenberg.  Davis’ role under Glencore’s new proposal is unclear. A
Glencore spokesman declined to comment further.  “Potentially Mick Davis not having the CEO post may upset
Xstrata shareholders, but probably Ivan thought if it’s going to
cost me so much money I want control,”  Standard Bank ’s Davey
said.  Votes from as little as 16.48 percent of Xstrata’s shares
would’ve been sufficient to block the deal under a scheme of
arrangement because Glencore can’t vote its 34 percent stake
under the terms of the deal.  Overnight Developments  Today’s adjournment of Glencore’s shareholder vote was due
to “very recent developments overnight,” Glencore Chairman
 Simon Murray  said at the company’s meeting in Zug. “We’ve been
unable to give you warning. My apologies again for bringing you
here under what would be almost false pretenses.”  Xstrata is being advised by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Bank
International Plc. Glencore, which has agreed to pay Xstrata a
so-called break fee of 298 million pounds should it withdraw the
offer, has tapped Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley. Qatar
Holding has been advised by  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)   Rising commodity demand from developing nations and the
deteriorating quality of mineral reserves are spurring producers
to merge and boost efficiency. Global mining deals swelled to
$98 billion last year, the highest level since 2007, from $76
billion in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Glencore was founded in 1974 as Marc Rich & Co. by the
former fugitive U.S. financier. The company, which changed its
name in 1994 after management bought Rich out, ended more than
three decades of operating as a closely held partnership with
its May 2011 initial public offering when it sold $10 billion in
shares.  Copper-to-Cotton  The trader of commodities from copper to cotton owns mines,
plants, ports and warehouses. It employs 2,800 people at
marketing units in 40 nations and about 54,800 at industrial
operations in more than 30 countries. Its oil shipping fleet
comprises 203 vessels, according to a 2010 sustainability
report.  The mining industry’s biggest takeover to date is Rio Tinto
Group’s 2007 acquisition of Alcan Inc. for $38 billion.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the largest mining company, withdrew from what
would have been the industry’s biggest deal, a $66 billion offer
for Rio, in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  