-- GM Plans to Hire About 10,000 IT Workers Over Five Years
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-09-07T20:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/gm-plans-to-hire-about-10-000-it-workers-over-five-years.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , as part of its
effort to increase its internal information technology
abilities, said it will hire about 10,000 workers over the next
three to five years.  The first part of that effort was announced today with GM
saying it will hire as many as 500 people at a new computer
center in Austin,  Texas .  While GM is still crafting its total technology hiring
plan, “it’s clearly a large base as you would expect from a
global company,” Randy Mott, GM chief information officer, told
reporters today on a conference call. Asked if GM would be
hiring more than 10,000 workers, he said it would be within
“that range but less than that.”  GM selected Austin because the Texas capital has a
population with computer skills, the Detroit-based automaker
said today in a statement. The Austin area is the home base to
technology companies including  Freescale Semiconductor Ltd. (FSL)  and
 Dell Inc. (DELL)   “We look to the innovation centers to design and deliver
IT that drives down the cost of ongoing operations while
continuously increasing the level and speed at which innovative
products and services are available to GM customers,” Mott said
in the statement. GM expects to open four centers, he said on
the call.  The Texas center opened this week,  Alan Adler , a GM
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Mott was hired by Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson in
February. Akerson wants to update GM’s computer and accounting
systems as he reorganizes the company around global functions
and brands, two people familiar with the thinking have said.  GM plans to bring most of its information technology work
in-house, Mott has said. GM does about 10 percent of IT work
internally. Mott plans to boost that to 90 percent.  GM gained 4.1 percent to $23.37 in  New York , the highest
closing price in more than four months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  