-- ICRC Says Syria Conflict Worsening, More Aid Is Needed
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n   a n d   F r a n c i s   H a r r i s
-- 2012-09-07T13:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/icrc-says-syria-conflict-worsening-more-aid-is-needed.html
The Syrian conflict is “rapidly
deteriorating” as wounded people die because medical aid is
lacking, International Committee of the Red Cross President
Peter Maurer said following a three-day trip to the country.  “I was shocked by the immense destruction of
infrastructure and homes in several areas I visited,” Maurer
said in an e-mailed statement from Geneva today. “Health
workers face tremendous difficulties in performing their duties.
Many men, women and children who could be saved are dying on a
daily basis because they lack access to medical care.”  Maurer said he met President Bashar al-Assad and several
ministers and visited war-torn areas on the outskirts of
Damascus. “There have been many casualties, and now the
situation is rapidly deteriorating,” he said, adding that Assad
agreed to facilitate efforts by the ICRC to step up its
humanitarian-aid work. The Syrian leader has made similar
pledges in the past.  United Nations efforts to end the 18-month conflict have
faltered as military monitors left the country and fighting
increased with battles engulfing areas of the two biggest
cities, Damascus and Aleppo. A bomb exploded outside a Damascus
mosque today, causing casualties, the  Associated Press  reported,
citing state-run Syrian TV.  The U.S. and its allies have called on the divided
opposition to present a  united front  against Assad. On Sept. 4,
UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon took an indirect swipe at
 Russia , as well as Gulf nations such as  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar,
for bringing weapons into Syria, a move he said is “only
contributing to further misery.”  Casualties Mount  More than 26,400 people have been killed since protests
against Assad’s rule broke out in March 2011, according to the
U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights , which has a
network of activists across the country. At least 82 people,
including 26 in Damascus and its suburbs, were killed in
fighting today, the activist Local Coordination Committees
reported. The  Observatory said  civilians including children died
when government forces bombarded towns and cities including al-
Zabadani, al-Shheil and Jabal Shahshabo.  As the number of people fleeing the fighting grows, the
UN’s refugee agency is scaling up its operations in  Syria  and
across the region, said Adrian Edwards, a UNHCR spokesman.  Call for Help  “The help we are seeking includes for household items,
financial assistance for 200,000 people considered vulnerable,
medical assistance, counseling of displaced populations,
rehabilitation of shelters and support to encourage refugee and
displaced Syrian children to return to school,” Edwards told
journalists in Geneva today, according to an e-mailed statement.  Government forces have arrested tens of thousands of people
whose rights must be upheld, Maurer said, adding that he and
Assad discussed the  ICRC ’s request to visit detainees. The
Syrian president “expressed his readiness to address this
issue,” he said.  “The positive commitments I received during my meetings
will obviously have to be followed up and tested in the coming
weeks,” Maurer said. “Each day that passes brings more
casualties and human suffering. I will personally pay the
closest attention to how the outcome of our discussions
materializes on the ground.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Francis Harris in London at 
 fharris4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  