-- India Said to Mull Introducing Laws to End Coal ‘Profiteering’
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-09-09T18:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/india-said-to-consider-laws-to-end-coal-profiteering-1-.html
India  may consider new laws for
allocating coal mines to private companies after the nation’s
auditor said giving the mines away had lost the government $33
billion, said two people familiar with the matter.  The new framework, being prepared by  Crisil Ltd. (CRISIL) , the local
unit of  Standard & Poor’s , may include a lock-in period to delay
companies selling their stakes after being granted the blocks,
terms preventing the sale of excess output on the open market
and a method to set the reserve price for mine auctions, said
the people, who asked not to be identified as they’re not
authorized to speak to the media. Crisil spokeswoman Tanuja
Abhinandan declined to comment.  India’s Central Bureau of Investigation is probing five
companies, including a unit of  Essar Energy Plc (ESSR) , over the
allocations. Delays to the introduction of an auction system
have disrupted parliament, with the opposition demanding the
resignation of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , who headed the
coal ministry when some of the mines were allotted.  “It’s important to take a combination of upfront payments
and production-linked payment from companies so that they don’t
sit on the mines and government doesn’t lose out if actual
reserves turn out to be higher than estimates,” said Debasish Mishra, a partner in the energy and resources team at Deloitte
Touche Tohmatsu India Pvt.  The coal ministry began giving mines to companies for their
own use in 1993 to boost production. It has allotted 194 blocks
with 44.4 billion metric tons of reserves since then, while
canceling permits for 22 blocks for slow or no progress.  No Shell  The CBI is investigating Navbharat Power Pvt., which Essar
Power Ltd. bought in April 2011, three years after Navbharat was
given a coal block by the government. Essar on Sept. 5 denied
news reports alleging Navbharat was a shell vehicle for the
company to apply for a government allotment.  The CBI is also investigating JLD Yavatmal Energy Ltd. The
company’s plan to set up a power plant and a steel mill failed
because of the long distance between the project and the
allotted  coal mine , Devendra Darda, managing director of the
Lokmat Group, which founded JLD Yavatmal, said by phone on Sept.
7.  “We haven’t made any profit from coal blocks,” said
Devendra, whose father  Vijay Darda  is a lawmaker belonging to
the ruling Congress Party.  The founder of a third company under investigation, Vini
Iron & Steel, said the CBI had raided his premises without
realizing that Vini was under new ownership when the government
allocated a coal block to the company.  “I sold Vini Iron six months before getting a coal block
as I couldn’t develop the steel mill,” said Vaibhav Tulsyan in
a phone interview. “I’d made a considerable investment and was
desperately looking for a buyer.”  Name Change  Separately, the coal ministry  sought an explanation  from
Shree Virangana Steels Ltd., which was given three coal mines in
2005, and later changed hands and its name to  Topworth Urja
Metals , according to the ministry’s website.  “The allotment of coal blocks is for captive purpose and
is not for profiteering,” the ministry said in its letter to
Topworth. “The sale of shareholding for profit defeats the
purpose of such allocation.” Topworth Chairman Abhay Lodha
could not be immediately reached for a comment.  A panel of officials from seven ministries started
questioning on Sept. 6 licensees for 58 blocks where mining has
yet to start as many as 13 years after the permits were issued,
the coal ministry said on Sept. 3. Companies being probed
include  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) ,  Usha Martin Ltd. (USM)  and
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , the ministry said.  Delays in government approvals and land acquisition have
slowed mine development, Sushil Maroo, chief financial officer
at  Jindal Steel , said on Sept. 3.  Final Decision  The panel has been asked to submit their recommendations by
Sept. 15, coal minister Sriprakash Jaiswal, who will take the
final decision, told reporters on Sept. 5 in New Delhi. The
blocks that lose permits may be given to state-run Coal India
Ltd., which can hire a mine developer for extraction, said the
people who asked not to be identified.  The profiteering allegations have delayed the allocation of
54 new coal blocks to power, steel and cement companies. The
blocks have estimated reserves of 19 billion tons.  “We are being extremely cautious,” Jaiswal told reporters
on Aug. 22, after the Comptroller & Auditor General’s report on
the lost $33 billion. “We want to ensure there’s no legal
loophole.”  The ministry may start the new allocations with 12 blocks
that have already been assessed, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  