-- Indonesia Faces Coffee Shipment Delays as Bean Deliveries Rise
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-09-07T12:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/indonesia-faces-coffee-shipment-delays-as-bean-deliveries-rise.html
Coffee shipments from  Indonesia , the
world’s third-largest robusta grower, continue to face delays
just as bean arrivals from farms increase, according to Volcafe,
the coffee unit of commodities trader ED&F Man Holdings Ltd.  Shipment disruptions at the port of Panjang in southern
Sumatra, the country’s main growing area, started as some
carriers that usually service the port stopped calling there,
creating a shortage of vessels, according to A.P. Moller-Maersk
A/S, the biggest container-ship operator. Coffee deliveries from
farms in Indonesia rose to about 5,000 to 5,500 metric tons this
week from 5,000 tons last week and 2,000 to 2,500 tons a week
earlier, said Winterthur, Switzerland-based Volcafe.  There are “a lot of shipment delays still at Panjang due
to limited space availability on feeder vessels,” Volcafe said
in a weekly report e-mailed today. Feeder ships normally take
cargo from smaller ports to larger ones. Their loads are then
transferred to bigger vessels for longer-distance voyages.  Beans from Indonesia for shipment this month and the next
were trading at a premium of $40 a ton to the price on the NYSE
Liffe exchange in London, Volcafe said. That is unchanged from
last week. There is some “sporadic external demand,” it said.  In  Vietnam , the world’s biggest robusta producer, buyers
are paying a premium of $40 a ton to the exchange price for
shipment in September and October, up from $30 a ton last week,
according to the report. The premium remains “firm” and “some
nearby demand is popping up here and there,” Volcafe said.  Traders and industry buyers in Vietnam were seeking
information about bean prices for the next crop starting in
October, the trader said. The beans were trading at a discount
of $30 a ton.  Indian Demand  In  India , there was less demand from local roasters this
week, bringing down prices, according to Volcafe.  “Since there will not be much carry left for the next
year, we expect differentials to start at the higher end” early
next season, the trader said, referring to a discount or a
premium paid to obtain physical coffee in relation to the price
on the futures market.  Robusta coffee for November delivery was up 1.4 percent to
$2,041 a ton by 12:51 p.m. in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 