-- Investors Expect Libor to be Replaced Within Five Years
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-09-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/investors-expect-libor-to-be-replaced-within-five-years.html
A key  interest rate  for more than
$500 trillion of securities worldwide will be replaced by a
benchmark subject to greater government control, according to a
plurality of global investors.  Forty-four percent of those responding to a quarterly
Bloomberg Global Poll said the  London  interbank offered rate,
known as Libor, will be supplanted by a more regulated model
within five years. Thirty-four percent predicted the rate will
continue to be set by banks in the current fashion, while 22
percent said they didn’t know.  Confidence in Libor has waned as authorities investigate
whether financial firms rigged the rate to profit on derivatives
positions and hide how difficult it was for them to borrow money
during credit-market turmoil in 2008.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets,
agreed to pay $460 million in June for its role in fixing the
rate, prompting lawmakers, regulators and investors to question
the veracity of a benchmark that is pegged to securities ranging
from home mortgages to credit cards.  “The Libor scandal should not be something to be hidden
under the carpet because it affects the correct functioning of
financial markets and the economy as a whole,” said Mario Cribari, head of asset management at Veco Invest SA in Lugano,
 Switzerland , and a participant in the poll. Governments are
trying to intervene “to calm public anger,” he said.  The quarterly poll of 847 investors, analysts and traders
who are Bloomberg subscribers was conducted Sept. 4.  Ongoing Probe  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. Lenders
are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from each other
for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a set number of quotes are excluded, those remaining are
averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  Investigators have focused on instances of traders
coordinating submissions in order to earn profits on derivatives
tied to the rates for dollars, euros and yen. The probe, which
is ongoing, has ensnared banks including  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Royal Bank of Scotland PLC , Deutsche Bank AG, and  HSBC PLC (HSBA) ,
according to company filings.  Meanwhile, regulators including the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority have started broader reviews of how the rate
is determined and regulated. The European Commission said Sept.
5 it is also seeking views on possible rules, including forcing
banks to provide real transaction data rather than estimates and
increasing the number of lenders involved in setting the rate.  ‘Watered Down’  The proportion of poll respondents predicting that Libor
would be replaced was consistent across the U.S.,  Europe  and
 Asia .  “There will be the traditional U.K. process of an inquiry
that makes few meaningful recommendations, which will then be
further watered down to the point that any changes will be both
minimal and satisfactory to nobody,” said Oliver Attwater, a
London-based North America equity analyst for British Airways
Pensions Investment Management Ltd.  The BBA, which represents more than 200 banks and lobbies
policy makers and regulators on behalf of the industry, has been
faulted for failing to fix Libor in 2008 when the  Bank for
International Settlements  first raised concerns that the
benchmark was being manipulated.  Geithner Testimony  According to U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner ,
private, unregulated organizations such as the BBA shouldn’t be
responsible for rates such as Libor.  “We have to take a careful look at other parts of the
financial system where the markets rely heavily on private
organizations composed of private firms like the BBA that have
some quasi-regulatory or self-regulatory role,” Geithner told
the Senate Banking Committee in  Washington  in a July hearing to
discuss the Barclays settlement. “As you’ve seen in this case,
we’ve got to be careful to make sure the system is not relying
on associations of private firms that leave us vulnerable to the
kind of things we’ve seen.”  In a Wall Street Journal editorial Aug. 2,  Dan Doctoroff ,
chief executive officer of Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg
News , proposed an alternative to Libor dubbed the Bloomberg
Interbank offered Rate, or Blibor, and offered to manage it as a
service to global financial markets.  In answering a separate question about the securities
markets, global investors expressed skepticism about the growth
of high-frequency trading that uses computer algorithms to buy
and sell stocks in fractions of a second. Fifty-five percent
said the practice, which now accounts for more than half of
equity trading volume, is having a mainly negative impact.  Regulatory Focus  Regulators have sharpened their focus on algorithmic and
high-frequency trading since May 6, 2010, when a computer
program employed by one firm sparked a 20-minute plunge in stock
prices, temporarily erasing $862 billion of market value. The
issue emerged again last month when a software malfunction at
 Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  cost the company $440 million and left
it looking for a financial infusion.  Thirty-seven percent of survey respondents said high-
frequency and algorithmic trading is mostly bad because it makes
markets more volatile, and 18 percent said it was negative
because computer problems could hurt investors.  “In today’s market, emotions appear to drive investor
decisions more than fundamental rationale,” said Jon Morris, a
portfolio manager at Palladium LLC in Norfolk, Virginia.
“Trading by algorithms and with high frequency clearly is
skewed away from fundamentals. When algorithms are right for the
wrong reason, it only increases investors’ abandonment of sound
judgment.”  Traders More Positive  Proponents of high-frequency trading say it makes markets
more liquid, lowering transaction costs for investors. Thirty-
six percent of respondents said that the practice was mainly
positive. While 30 percent of U.S.-based respondents said high-
frequency trading was mostly good, 42 percent of participants in
Asia viewed it positively.  Across professions, 40 percent of traders and market makers
surveyed said high-frequency trading is good, compared with only
31 percent of portfolio managers and asset liability managers
who shared the view.  The Bloomberg Global Poll was conducted by Selzer & Co., a
 Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. The poll has a margin of error of
plus or minus 3.4 percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  