-- Iron Ore Swaps Gain Most Since April on China Building Plan
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-09-07T15:51:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/iron-ore-swaps-gain-most-since-april-on-china-building-plan-3-.html
Iron ore  swaps jumped the most in at
least five months on speculation Chinese infrastructure spending
will boost demand for the commodity used to make steel,
according to Clarkson Securities Ltd.  Contracts for the first quarter of 2013 rose as much as 8
percent, the most since at least April, to $105 a metric ton,
Clarkson data showed. The price was $104.50 as of 4:30 p.m. in
London. Forward freight agreements for Capesizes, the largest
vessels hauling the raw material, in the fourth quarter
increased 3.1 percent to $8,350, extending the biggest two-day
gain since July 3.  Traders are anticipating increased demand from China, the
world’s largest steelmaker, after the government approved
infrastructure spending to revive growth, said Alex Gray, chief
executive officer of Clarkson Securities, a unit of the world’s
largest shipbroker.  China  backed plans for 1,254 miles of roads,
nine sewage-treatment plants, five port and warehouse projects,
and two waterway improvements, statements on the website of the
National Development and Reform Commission showed yesterday.  “News that there is going to be an injection of fresh
money into that market is much welcomed,” Gray said by phone
today from London. “Confidence has taken a real beating in the
last months as new ships became available and the volume of
inquiries didn’t seem to be enough. Any piece of good news is
going to be a cause for price movement.”  The stimulus could boost utilization of the Capesize fleet
to 80 percent in the next year from 77 percent now, Herman Hildan, an analyst at RS Platou Markets AS in Oslo, said in an
e-mailed note today. Rates could reach $14,000 a day if the
volumes are mostly supplied by  Brazil , he said.  Prices Slumped  Iron ore  prices  slumped this year as China, the largest
consumer, drew on inventories instead of imports. Ore with 62
percent iron content at the port of Tianjin dropped 35 percent
since the end of June to $87 a ton, within 30 cents of the
lowest level since October 2009, according to The Steel Index
Ltd. The country’s steelmakers cut inventories at ports and
mills by about 13 percent to 111.8 million tons in August,
 Macquarie Research  estimates.  That’s cutting demand for shipments and leading to
unprofitable freight rates. Daily earnings for Capesizes plunged
87 percent this year to $3,452, figures from the  Baltic Exchange 
showed today. Owners need $16,700 to break even, Pareto
Securities AS estimates.  Rates slumped as the fleet grows 3.5 times faster than
demand for cargoes. Capacity aboard Capesizes will expand 14
percent this year while dry-bulk shipping demand advances 4
percent, according to Clarkson. Iron ore accounted for 66
percent of one-time bookings for the vessels in the past 12
months, Morgan Stanley estimates.  Largest Vessels  Capesizes are the largest vessels in the Baltic Dry Index,
a broader measure of costs to transport commodities by sea,
which slid 0.9 percent to 669, according to the exchange. The
gauge dropped 22 percent in August, the third monthly retreat in
four, on lower rates for all four classes of ships it tracks.  Daily average returns for Panamaxes, the biggest ships to
navigate the Panama Canal, declined 2.9 percent to $4,758 today,
the exchange’s figures showed. Supramaxes that are about 25
percent smaller lost 0.6 percent to $8,703. Handysizes, the
smallest ships in the index, gained 0.3 percent to $6,685, the
exchange data showed. That’s the second consecutive gain after
returns declined continuously between July 2 and Sept. 5, the
data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in  London  at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  