-- Italy’s Grilli Welcomes Potential IMF Role in ECB Plan
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-09-08T12:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/italy-s-grilli-welcomes-potential-imf-role-in-ecb-plan.html
Italian Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  praised the  International Monetary Fund ’s oversight of
bailouts and welcomed a potential role for the institution in
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s bond-buying plan.  “It’s only natural and understandable that if the IMF can
and would continue to be involved, that would be a positive
element,” Grilli said yesterday in an interview with  Guy
Johnson  of Bloomberg Television in Cernobbio, Italy. “The way
the  euro zone  has been working through these years has been
through the involvement of the European institutions and the
IMF. And I think that collaboration and the expertise put
together has worked very well.”  Grilli and Prime Minister Mario Monti are cutting Italy’s
budget deficit in an attempt to lower borrowing costs without
the help of rescue funds from  Europe . Draghi, who announced his
support program Sept. 6, said he would seek the involvement of
the IMF to set conditions and monitor compliance for any country
that requests help from the ECB. Grilli reiterated Italy’s
intention to solve the crisis without outside support.  “We’ve already said many times that we don’t have, today,
the intention or a plan” to ask for any program, Grilli said.  Cernobbio  Grilli and Monti are meeting with European leaders on the
shores of Lake Como in Cernobbio at the Ambrosetti Forum, an
annual meeting of bankers, business leaders and policy makers.
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  and European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn , are among
those scheduled to make closed-door speeches at the gathering,
which started yesterday and ends tomorrow.  Monti has been pushing the 17-nation euro area to broaden
its collective response to the three-year debt crisis that
forced Greece, Portugal and Ireland into bailouts. On Sept. 6,
the Italian premier welcomed the ECB plan, which was designed to
target government debt with maturities of one to three years on
the secondary market, and said it was premature to comment on
the details of the program.  “It’s up to the Italian government to decide,” European
financial services chief  Michel Barnier  said in Cernobbio of the
possibility of an aid request. “I am totally confident in  Mario
Monti .”  Monti, a former university president and EU commissioner,
is moving closer to the end of his 17-month caretaker term and
is pushing for measures to boost economic growth. Parliamentary
elections must take place by April, and Italian President
Giorgio Napolitano today called on politicians to cooperate and
respect the government’s budget constraints.  “We hope, and for my part, trust, that there will be a
constructive conclusion to the legislature,” Napolitano said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Matthias Wabl at 
 mwabl@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  