-- Noda Signs Preliminary Deal With Putin on Vladivostok LNG Plant
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-09-08T08:51:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/japan-russia-set-to-decide-on-vladivostok-lng-plant-this-year.html
Japan and Russia reached a
preliminary deal on building a liquefied natural gas plant in
Vladivostok as fuel demand rises in Asia.  Japan’s Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  and Russian President
 Vladimir Putin  signed an agreement today at the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation Summit that lays the framework for a
decision this year. Most of the LNG produced at the plant is
expected to be exported to Japan, according to Japan’s trade
ministry.  Japan is seeking more LNG to fuel power stations after the
2011 Fukushima disaster triggered nuclear-reactor shutdowns
across the country. A group led by  Itochu Corp. (8001)  agreed with
Russia’s  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  in April last year to study building an LNG
plant in Vladivostok, a coastal city in Russia’s Far East.  The facility is expected to have a capacity of 10 million
metric tons a year, according to Itochu. For Moscow-based
Gazprom, Russia’s monopoly gas exporter, the project would
provide increased access to Asian customers at a time when debt-
laden European countries are cutting back purchases.  Gazprom plans to start production in Vladivostok in 2016 or
2017, Chief Executive Officer Alexey Miller said in June. The
company may increase the capacity of the proposed plant to 25
million tons a year, the Nikkei reported Sept. 5, citing Deputy
CEO  Alexander Medvedev .  The gas producer, which had previously discussed the
possibility of supplying gas to Japan by pipeline, has now
scrapped those plans, the  Associated Press  reported June 29,
citing Miller.  Itochu and its oil exploration unit together own 37.5
percent of Japan Far East Gas Co., a venture with Japanese
partners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Vladivostok at  tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  