-- Jobs Data Show U.S. Factories Bearing Brunt of Slowdown
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s   a n d   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-09-07T17:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/jobs-data-show-u-s-factories-bearing-brunt-of-slowdown.html
The biggest decline in factory jobs
in two years reported today by the U.S. Labor Department adds to
signs that manufacturing is bearing the brunt of the slowdown in
global growth.  Factory payrolls declined by  15,000 workers  last month, 
according to the figures issued today in  Washington . The 
workweek shrank and the  share  of industries hiring
plunged to the lowest level in almost three years.  Combined with earlier data showing less demand for
capital equipment and growing pessimism among  purchasing
managers , today’s figures show manufacturing, which helped lead
the U.S. out of the worst recession in the post-World War II
era, is pulling back. Companies such as  Intel Corp. (INTC)  are among
those cutting forecasts as  business investment  cools and
economies from Europe to  Asia  slow.  “There is a clear loss of momentum in manufacturing,”
said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at IHS Global Insight in
Lexington,  Massachusetts . “I don’t think manufacturing is going
into reverse, but I think it’s stagnating.”  While the drop in factory hiring last month was magnified
by changes in the annual shutdowns at auto plants, the decline
extended beyond a single industry. Producers of wood products,
fabricated metals, electrical equipment and semiconductors also
reduced headcounts in August, today’s report from the Labor
Department showed.  Intel Forecast  Intel, the world’s largest semiconductor maker, slashed its
third-quarter sales prediction today amid declining demand for
personal computers from corporate customers. Sales will be $12.9
billion to $13.5 billion, down from a prior projection of $13.8
billion to $14.8 billion, the  Santa Clara , California-based
company said in a statement. Analysts on average had estimated
sales of $14.2 billion, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The workweek for all factory employees fell to 40.5 hours
on average in August, the lowest since November and down from
40.7 hours the prior month, the figures showed. The number of
hours had been as high as 40.9 in the first two months of 2012.  A  gauge  of the share of manufacturers hiring last month
plunged to 36.4, the weakest since November 2009, from 50.6 in
July, the data showed. Readings lower than 50 indicate fewer
industries took on staff.  Makers of motor vehicles and parts cut staff by 7,500
workers last month, representing a partial payback from the
14,000 gain in July. Automakers shut fewer plants during the
annual retooling in July in order to rebuild depleted
inventories and therefore furloughed fewer workers than
projected by the government when it adjusts the data for
seasonal variations.  Auto Manufacturers  Because fewer workers were let go in July, fewer were also
recalled in August, precipitating last month’s drop when the
figures are adjusted for these seasonal influences.  Today’s jobs report comes on the heels of other data that
indicated assembly lines were slowing. Manufacturing shrank for
a third month in August in the longest decline since the
recession ended in 2009, a report from the Tempe, Arizona-based
 Institute for Supply Management  showed this month. The group’s
 factory index  fell to 49.6, the lowest since July 2009. Measures
of orders and production dropped to three-year lows.  The ISM’s gauge of  factory employment  decreased to the
lowest level since November 2009.  Demand for U.S.-made capital goods such as machinery and
communications gear dropped in July by the most in eight months,
according to a report last month from the Commerce Department.
Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft are
considered a proxy for future business investment and the report
prompted economists at Morgan Stanley in  New York  to reduce
their forecast for the gain in third-quarter business spending.  Spending Plans  Intel is also among those companies planning to spend less
on new plants and equipment this year.  Capital expenditures  will
be less than the low end of its prior 2012 forecast range of
$12.1 billion to $12.9 billion, the company said today.  “Firms have pulled in in terms of equipment and software
spending and capital equipment,” said  John Silvia , chief
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina . “They’re looking at an economy growing at 1.5 percent
to 2 percent and they have all the equipment they need and all
the employees they need to produce that kind of output.”  A factory slowdown would come as a setback to President
 Barack Obama , who has highlighted manufacturing as an engine for
 job creation  and a sign his policies support business growth.
Even including last month’s drop, factory payrolls have expanded
by 512,000 workers after falling to an almost 70-year low in
January 2010.  “After a decade that was defined by what we bought and
borrowed, we’re getting back to basics, and doing what America
has always done best: We’re making things again,” Obama said
yesterday in accepting the  Democratic Party ’s nomination to a
second term.  Tax Breaks  Doubling exports by offering tax breaks to U.S. businesses
can create a million new manufacturing jobs in the next four
years, he said.  The decline in factory hiring and hours last month means
production may have eased. Industrial output was probably little
changed in August after advancing for four consecutive months,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before the  Federal Reserve ’s Sept. 14 report.  “The manufacturing sector overall looks like it softened
quite sharply,” Bruce Kasman, chief economist at JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in New York, said in a conference call today.
“Manufacturing is going through an adjustment that is going to
give us at least for the month of August, but potentially for
the next couple of months, flat to down readings on the
production side.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Carlos Torres  in Washington at ot
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  