-- Kellogg, KKR Said to Eye United Biscuits’ Snacks Unit
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-09-07T22:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/kellogg-kkr-said-to-eye-united-biscuits-snacks-unit.html
Companies including  Kellogg Co. (K)  and
KKR & Co. are considering bids for United Biscuits’ snacks unit,
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The KP Snacks unit, spun off from United Biscuits by owners
 Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and PAI Partners this year, is valued at
about 500 million pounds ($796 million), said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the process is private.
Documents on the sale are scheduled to be sent next week, the
people said.  Blackstone and PAI, which is based in Paris, bought United
Biscuits for about 1.6 billion pounds in 2006. They failed in
2010 to sell the whole company to Bright Food Group Co.,
Shanghai’s biggest food and dairy company, and decided to split
the snacks and biscuits businesses to facilitate an exit.  United Biscuits  was created in 1948 from the merger of two
Scottish companies, McVitie & Price and MacFarlane Lang. It
competes with food companies including U.S. snack-makers
Snyder’s-Lance Inc. and ConAgra Foods Inc., and its brands are
sold in more than 100 countries.  Other potential bidders for the unit include Germany’s
Intersnack Knabber-Geback GmbH & Co. and private-equity firms
including Permira Advisers LLP,  Warburg Pincus  LLC, Clayton
Dubilier & Rice LLC and  Lion Capital  LLP, the people said.  A Permira official declined to comment, as did officials at
KKR, Clayton Dubilier, PAI, Blackstone, Lion Capital, Warburg
Pincus and Kellogg. Spokespersons for Intersnack weren’t
available to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  