-- Kennedy Legacy Poised for Revival With Massachusetts Win
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-09-07T02:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/kennedy-legacy-poised-for-revival-with-massachusetts-primary-win.html
Joseph P. Kennedy III, a grandson of
Robert F. Kennedy, clinched the Democratic nomination to replace
U.S. Representative  Barney Frank , the Massachusetts lawmaker who
is leaving Congress after 32 years.  Kennedy, 31, easily defeated two challengers in a primary
election that provided the first ballot-box test for his drive
to take up what many in the Bay State see as his family’s
business in Washington. With 84 percent of precinct counted, the
 Associated Press  said he collected 91 percent of the vote.  At least one member of the storied clan served in Congress
or the White House continuously for 63 years until  Patrick Kennedy ’s retirement as a Rhode Island representative in January
2011. The newcomer is the son of former congressman Joseph P. Kennedy II, and served as a county prosecutor in suburban  Boston 
before jumping into the race for Frank’s seat in February.  “It’s hard to understand, but voters just love Kennedys,”
said John Berg, who teaches politics at Suffolk University in
Boston. “The mystique still lingers.”  Kennedy will face Republican Sean Bielat in the Nov. 6
final. Bielat lost to Frank in 2010. Frank, a Democrat who
turned 72 in March, said in November that he wouldn’t seek re-
election after the once-a-decade redistricting process
rearranged his Fourth District. The seat represents some of the
state’s wealthiest communities, including Brookline and Newton,
and its poorest, such as Fall River.  Easy Win  “Kennedy will walk away with it,” Berg said before the
polls closed. “Various Kennedys have done things to screw it
up, but he hasn’t, and I think he’ll be fine.”  The family’s latest entrant to political life follows a
rich legacy that includes the service of his grandfather’s
brothers, President  John F. Kennedy  and U.S. Senator  Ted Kennedy , who died in office in 2009. His campaign reflects those
connections, raising more than $3 million in donations, more
than any other House candidate in Massachusetts, according to
the nonpartisan Center for Responsive Politics in Washington.  A graduate of  Stanford University  and Harvard Law School,
the younger Kennedy served in the Peace Corps -- an organization
created by President Kennedy -- in the Dominican Republic before
starting as a prosecutor in Barnstable County, home to the
Hyannis Port seaside compound owned for generations by his
family. He later joined the Middlesex County district attorney’s
office in Cambridge.  He defeated Herb Robinson and Rachel Brown in the
Democratic primary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 