-- Kinder Morgan to Pay $110 Million to Settle El Paso Suits
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-09-08T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/kinder-morgan-to-pay-110-million-to-settle-el-paso-suits.html
Kinder Morgan  Inc. will pay $110
million to end lawsuits by investors over its purchase of gas-
pipeline owner El Paso Corp. in a settlement that includes
concessions by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , according to court
papers.  Kinder Morgan, the biggest U.S. pipeline operator, agreed
to settle claims that El Paso investors were shortchanged in the
$21.1 billion buyout, which provided $25.91 a share, lawyers for
El Paso shareholders said in a Delaware Chancery Court filing
yesterday.  Those investors also criticized Goldman Sachs, who served
as El Paso’s financial adviser in the sale, for having
conflicting interests in the buyout. New York-based Goldman
Sachs, which at one time owned 19 percent of Houston-based
Kinder Morgan, agreed to forgo its $20 million fee in the El
Paso deal as part of the settlement, according to the filing.  Kinder and Goldman Sachs officials denied any wrongdoing as
part of the settlement and said they agreed to the accord
“solely to avoid the substantial burden, expense, inconvenience
and distraction of continued litigation,” according to the
filing.  The settlement comes after Kinder Morgan officials said in
July that second-quarter profit fell as the pipeline company cut
the value of some of its assets it agreed to sell to obtain
regulatory approval for the El Paso acquisition. Net income fell
to $153 million from $230 million a year earlier, officials said
July 18.  ‘Best Interest’  Larry Pierce , a spokesman for Kinder Morgan, said in an e-
mailed statement the settlement covers suits in Delaware,  Texas 
and  New York .  “The company believes that resolving these claims at this
time, avoiding the expense and uncertainty of continued
litigation, and putting this matter behind it are in the best
interest of its shareholders,” Pierce wrote in the statement.
He declined to comment in a telephone interview to specify how
Kinder Morgan is funding the settlement.  David Wells , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on the settlement in a telephone interview yesterday.  Kinder Morgan closed its acquisition of Houston-based El
Paso in May, two months after a judge refused to block a
shareholder vote on the takeover. Pierce said yesterday that 95
percent of El Paso’s shareholders voted to accept Kinder’s
offer, which provided a 47 percent premium.  Damage Claims  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine concluded in March
that investors shouldn’t be denied the right to decide whether
to accept the offer “despite the disturbing nature of some of
the behavior leading to its terms.” Strine allowed investors to
proceed with damage claims against Kinder executives, Goldman
Sachs officials and former El Paso managers over their handling
of the deal.  Goldman Sachs’s role in Kinder Morgan’s buyout of El Paso
drew investors’ and the judge’s ire because of the bank’s ties
to both companies.  Pension funds from  Louisiana ,  Florida  and New York that
invested in El Paso argued Goldman Sachs bankers helped  Richard Kinder , the firm’s chief executive officer, take the pipeline
operator private in 2006. At one time, Goldman Sachs had
designees in two Kinder Morgan board seats because of its
ownership stake in the energy company.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-largest U.S. bank by assets, also
had advised El Paso over the years, the investors said in court
papers. When Kinder approached its rival about a takeover last
year, El Paso called in Goldman Sachs to help.  The pension funds’ lawyers argued Goldman Sachs had a
financial incentive to advise El Paso’s managers to accept a
lower price than they might have negotiated.  Fee Demand Dropped  “Goldman’s staggering conflict of interest was obvious
from the outset: With a stake in KMI worth over $4 billion,
every dollar shaved off the buyout price represented $150
million of savings for Goldman,” the funds argued.  In June, Goldman Sachs officials moved to  sell  more than 36
million of its shares in Kinder at $31.88 apiece to net about
$1.2 billion, the Wall Street Journal newspaper reported.
Goldman Sachs now owns 5.56 percent of Kinder Morgan, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pierce said yesterday that
Goldman no longer has designees on Kinder’s board.  Along with forgoing its fee for serving as one of El Paso’s
advisers in the buyout, Goldman Sachs officials also are
dropping demands that Kinder Morgan cover legal fees tied to the
court fight over the acquisition, according to court filings
outlining the settlement.  Foshee Claims  Goldman Sachs hired lawyers from New York-based Sullivan &
Cromwell and Wilmington-based Richards, Layton & Finger to
represent it in the  Delaware  suit filed by El Paso investors.
Pierce said in an e-mail that he didn’t know the size of
Goldman’s legal fees.  The settlement also resolves El Paso shareholders’
conflict-of-interest claims against former Chief Executive
Officer  Douglas Foshee , according to the court filing.  Investors accused Foshee of approaching Kinder about
pursuing a management-led bid for El Paso’s energy-exploration
unit while negotiating the potential purchase of the whole
company.  Foshee never informed El Paso’s board or shareholders that
he and a group of executives were considering buying the unit,
investors argued in court papers. In his ruling allowing El Paso
shareholders to vote on the buyout offer, Strine criticized
Foshee’s decision to approach Kinder officials about the unit.  “He did not tell anyone but his management conferees that
he was contemplating an MBO because he knew that would have
posed all kinds of questions about the negotiations with Kinder
Morgan and how they were to be conducted,” the judge said.  The case is In re El Paso Corp. Shareholder Litigation,
Consolidated 6949-CS, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  