-- Kmart Removes Layaway Fees to Help Boost Holiday Shopping
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-09-07T20:45:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/kmart-removes-layaway-fees-to-help-boost-holiday-shopping-1-.html
Kmart, the discount unit of  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , said it will remove fees from layaway purchases
to help customers strained by tighter shopping budgets.  Free layaway at Kmart will be available online and in
stores today through Nov. 17, said Jai Holtz, vice president of
financial services at Sears, adding that the company will
consider extending the program past the holidays.  Kmart, which offers layaway throughout the year, is working
to boost holiday sales amid increasing competition from Web
retailers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Comparable-store sales at
Kmart fell 4.7 percent in the second quarter, hurt by lower
electronics prices and declining sales of lawn and garden
equipment.  Layaway “is a significant portion of our sales throughout
the year,” Holtz said today in a telephone interview.  Kmart previously charged $5 for an eight-week contract and
$10 for 12 weeks. Customers make a down payment on merchandise
and then pay in biweekly installments.  Sears stores will introduce a similar program for the
holiday starting next month, Holtz said. Like Kmart, Sears
offers a year-round layaway program.  “Many of our competitors do not offer it on Black
Friday,” Holtz said. Kmart started testing the no-fee program a
couple of months ago, he said.  Wal-Mart’s Layaway  Sears, controlled by hedge fund manager  Edward Lampert ,
 rose  1.4 percent to $58.18 at the close in New York. Shares of
the  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based company have gained 83
percent this year.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, last
month announced plans to bring back an expanded layaway program
for the holiday season to help customers save for gifts. The
retailer lowered its Christmas layaway open fee to $5 from $15,
according to a statement this week.  Bentonville, Arkansas-based Wal-Mart resumed the program
last year after canceling layaway for everything except jewelry
in 2006.  Toys “R” Us eliminated its layaway fees earlier this
week, through Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  