-- Korea Corporate Bond Sales Jump as LG Electronics Boosts Issue
-- B y   T a e j i n   P a r k
-- 2012-09-07T07:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/korea-corporate-bond-sales-jump-as-lg-electronics-boosts-issue.html
LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ’s first won-
denominated note sale in a year helped corporate bond offerings
in the currency rise almost fivefold this week as a slowing
South Korean economy pushed yields to historic lows.  Issuance increased to 1.36 trillion won ($1.2 billion) from
280 billion won last week, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.
Yields on three-year AA-rated corporate notes fell to 3.24
percent on Sept. 5, the least since the Korean Financial
Investment Association started compiling data in 1993. Similarly
rated U.S. corporate securities yielded 2.13 percent yesterday,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  LG, the world’s No. 4 mobile-phone maker, took advantage of
plunging yields by increasing the size of its offering 50
percent to 300 billion won, the data show.  Asia ’s fourth-largest
economy failed to meet the central bank’s growth estimates,
according to a report yesterday from the  Bank of Korea , which
meets to decide  interest rates  next week. Yields on the nation’s
corporate debt generally fall as government yields drop.  “Companies are able to borrow for a longer term and at
cheaper costs now,” said Kim Ki Myung, a credit analyst with
 Korea  Investment & Securities Co., the third-largest arranger of
bonds this year. “Even if the Bank of Korea doesn’t change the
 base rate  next week, though that’s unlikely in our view, we
should see more and more offerings as borrowers want to secure
adequate liquidity amid a slumping economy.”  Korea Southern Power Co. and Uamco Ltd. also sold 300
billion won of debt securities each this week, the data show.  ‘Right Timing’  LG initially planned to offer 120 billion won of three-year
notes, and 80 billion won of five-year securities, according to
an Aug. 29 regulatory filing. The Seoul-based company increased
the sale by 50 billion won for each maturity, pricing the three-
year debt to yield 3.1 percent and the five-year bonds to yield
3.19 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We felt the timing was right for this particular
action,” Ken Hong, a Seoul-based spokesman for LG, said by
phone, declining to comment further on why the company raised
the offering.  The yield on Korea’s sovereign 3.25 percent bond due June
2015 increased five basis points this week to close at 2.82
percent in  Seoul , according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The won strengthened 0.4 percent this week to 1,130.40 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Growth Estimates  Korea’s economy grew 0.3 percent in the second quarter from
the previous three-month period, compared with an initial
estimate of 0.4 percent, the central bank report said. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. lowered its forecasts for gross domestic
product expansion to 2.6 percent from 3.0 percent for 2012, and
to 3.5 percent from 3.8 percent for 2013 yesterday.  The yield premium investors demand to own three-year
corporate notes over similar-maturity treasury bonds tightened
one basis point to 50 basis points last week, the narrowest in
almost five years, and has remained at that level since then,
data from the financial investment association show.  “I see little movement in corporate spreads as bond
investors will wait and see rather than being active ahead the
rate decision,” Hwang Won Ha, a credit analyst with HMC
Investment Securities Co., said in a telephone interview from
Seoul on Sept. 5. “A rate cut next week will raise expectations
for further reductions, which will push down treasury yields,
and spreads, in turn, may narrow.”  Korea Southern, Uamco  All 12 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  expected
Governor Kim Choong So to reduce the benchmark interest rate to
2.75 percent on Sept. 13.  Of the corporate bond sales this week, Uamco,  South Korea ’s
biggest buyer of bad debts from banks, priced 300 billion won of
notes due 2014 to yield 3.05 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Korea Southern Power sold 100 billion won of seven-year
bonds at a yield of 28 basis points more than similar-maturity
government debt, the data show. The power-generating unit of
Korea Electric Power Corp. also issued 90 billion won of ten-
year notes at a 17 basis-point premium and 110 billion won of
15-year securities at a spread of 25 basis points, the data
show.  Next week, Samsung SDI Co., a lithium battery maker, plans
a 200 billion won offering of three-year securities, according
to preliminary data compiled by Bloomberg. The sale would be
Samsung SDI’s first in almost three years, the data show.  South Korean companies have borrowed 38.5 trillion won
selling bonds this year, compared with 37.3 trillion won the
same period of 2011, the data show. LG’s issue was its first in
won since September 2011.  “As borrowing costs keep sliding we’ve been seeing a
steady inflow of new issuance from companies that haven’t tapped
the market for a while,” HMC’s Hwang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taejin Park in Seoul 
 tpark31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  