-- Korean Won Gains on Fitch Upgrade, ECB Plan; Bonds Fall
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-09-07T07:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/korean-won-gains-on-fitch-upgrade-ecb-plan-bonds-fall.html
The won rose to a three-week high
after  Fitch Ratings  upgraded South Korea and the  European
Central Bank  stepped up efforts to tackle the euro region’s debt
crisis. Government bonds fell as investors favored higher-
yielding assets.  Fitch raised South Korea’s rating to AA-, one step above
Japan and China, less than two weeks after a Moody’s Investors
Service upgrade. ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday
unlimited debt purchases by the bank will help address “severe
distortions” in sovereign bond markets that partly stem from
unfounded fears about the euro. U.S. jobless claims fell last
week and companies added more workers than forecast in August,
reports showed yesterday. The  Kospi (KOSPI)  index rallied 2.6 percent.  “The ECB’s announcement was more or less expected in the
market, but combined with good U.S. economic data and Fitch’s
rating upgrade in Korea, sentiment toward risk assets
improved,” said Ryoo Hyun Jung, chief currency dealer at
Citibank Korea Inc. in Seoul.  The won strengthened 0.3 percent to 1.130.40 per dollar at
the close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
touched 1,129.03 earlier, the strongest since Aug. 14, and
gained 0.4 percent this week. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, slid 104
basis points, or 1.04 percentage point today, to 6.54 percent.  Fiscal Discipline  “The upgrade reflects Korea’s continued economic and
financial stability in a volatile global environment,” Fitch
said in yesterday’s statement. While Moody’s and Fitch now have
 South Korea  on their fourth-highest ratings,  Standard & Poor’s 
ranks the nation at A, its sixth-highest grade.  “It is an important vote of confidence for Korea’s safe-
haven status, which could strengthen the appreciation bias of
the Korean won,” said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist
at Barclays Plc in Singapore. “We expect more inflows from
sovereign wealth funds.”  The yield on the government’s 3.25 percent bonds due June
2015 rose seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to a
two-week high of 2.82 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.
South Korea’s three-year  yield  touched an all-time low of 2.74
percent on Sept. 5.  Three-year debt futures slid 0.24 today to 106.12 and the
one-year interest-rate swap climbed seven basis points to 2.87
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  