-- Nani’s Wage Demands Scupper Move to Big-Spending Zenit: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-07T05:58:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/nani-s-wage-demands-scupper-move-to-big-spending-zenit-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Nani Nixed  Manchester United  winger Nani, who was asking for 130,000
pounds ($207,000) a week to sign a new contract with the Red
Devils, ruined any chance of a move to Zenit St. Petersburg with
his “unreal” wage demands, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Russian champion spent more than $100 million this week
on signing Brazilian striker Hulk and Belgian midfielder Axel
Witsel, and wouldn’t stretch further to accommodate Nani’s
request, the newspaper said.  Barton Ban Stands  Queens Park Rangers midfielder Joey Barton will still have
to serve the remaining nine games of his 12-match ban even after
joining French club Marseille on loan, the  Telegraph reported .  Barton’s suspension for his actions on the final day of
last season is also applicable in France, the Ligue de Football
Professionnel, which runs the country’s soccer leagues, said in
statement last night, the Telegraph said.  ‘Historic Capital’  Real Madrid manager  Jose Mourinho  ruled out the prospect of
 Cristiano Ronaldo  leaving for a benefactor-funded team such as
Manchester City or Paris Saint-Germain, saying the world’s best
players only want to play for “historic” clubs, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  “Madrid, Barca, Bayern, these clubs have unique historic
capital,” the newspaper cited Mourinho as saying. “The
trophies, the European Cups, the history, the fans. Things you
cannot buy with money.”  Sagna Saga  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  wants defenders Bacary Sagna
and  Kieran Gibbs  to sign new contracts, and the club will begin
negotiations with the former as a matter of urgency, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  Sagna, whose current agreement expires in 2014, this week
questioned his future after getting frustrated at Arsenal
selling its best players and not winning trophies, the Mirror
added. The Gunners sold captain  Robin van Persie  and midfielder
 Alex Song  last month.  Flight Fee  Fiorentina wants Fulham striker Dimitar Berbatov to pay for
the flight he and his agent never took to Florence after the
former Manchester United forward decided against a move to
Italy, the  Daily Express reported .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  