-- News Corp. Phone-Hacking Trial Delayed Over Damages Dispute
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-09-07T17:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/news-corp-phone-hacking-trial-delayed-over-damages-dispute-1-.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s civil phone-hacking
trial in Britain was delayed by three months until at least May
after a judge said the company and its victims need to overcome
a dispute over the scope of the three-week hearing.  A decision must be reached about whether victims of News
Corp.’s now-defunct News of the World tabloid should be allowed
to seek so-called exemplary damages, Judge Geoffrey Vos said at
a hearing today. The case also risks being overwhelmed by
victims’ requests for internal e-mails and other evidence from
News Corp., Vos said in London.  “There has to be a balance,” Vos said. “I am assessing
damages; I am not conducting a public inquiry. A fair assessment
can be done without looking at every document.”  News Corp., the New York-based company controlled by  Rupert Murdoch , is trying to move on from the scandal after the civil
case and a parallel criminal probe that began last year revealed
a cover up of phone hacking and bribery. About 80 people have
been arrested in three criminal probes, including another
journalist today over a stolen phone.  Delving into the facts required to justify such damages
risks hindering related criminal cases, Vos said. He scheduled a
three-day hearing on the matter starting Sept. 25 to determine
whether to bar that type of damages or limit the amount of
documents given to victims.  Newspaper Sales  Exemplary damages are appropriate because a high-level
conspiracy facilitated the use of hacked private information of
celebrities and other public figures to sell more newspapers and
increase profit at News Corp.’s U.K. unit, victims’ lawyers
said. Vos disputed the extent of evidence victims need to prove
their case for damages.  About 60 claims have been filed by people whose voice mail
was intercepted by journalists,  Hugh Tomlinson , a lawyer for the
victims, said at the hearing. While about 400 other potential
victims have asked the  Metropolitan Police Service  to disclose
evidence about possible hacking, only about 40 more are expected
to sue and join the trial, Tomlinson said.  Recent lawsuits against the company include those by singer
Kerry Katona and criminal-defense lawyer Kirsty Brimelow, who
newspapers said in 2007 had an affair with the country’s then-
chief prosecutor Ken Macdonald. At the time, Macdonald had just
overseen the first phone-hacking criminal case against the News
of the World’s former royals reporter  Clive Goodman  and ex-
private detective  Glenn Mulcaire .  Generic Claims  News Corp. asked Vos at a July 30 hearing to keep secret a
series of new claims being made to justify the exemplary
damages. The company wants details of the allegations kept from
the public unless they are approved and added to the victims’
so-called generic claims for the trial.  Vos said he may limit which documents among millions of
pages of evidence should be used in the trial, including e-mails
between journalists and News International executives. Some of
the messages are “gobbledygook” and don’t add to the overall
understanding of the conspiracy and cover up, he said.  “We are looking at a jigsaw puzzle with 100 pieces and we
have 30 of them,” Tomlinson said. “We are trying to see what
the whole picture looks like.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  