-- NHL, Union Labor Talks Resume as Contract Expiration Date Nears
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-09-08T05:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/nhl-union-resume-labor-talks-as-contract-expiration-date-nears.html
The  National Hockey League  and its
players’ union resumed discussions in  New York  as they seek to
reach a labor agreement before the current contract expires
Sept. 15.  The two sides met yesterday, John Dellapina, a spokesman
for the NHL, said in an e-mail.  “We’d like to make a deal,” league Commissioner Gary Bettman said in a video on NHL.com. “I know it’s difficult when
every breath we take is being chronicled, but there is an ebb
and a flow to collective bargaining negotiations and sometimes
it makes sense to get together, and sometimes it makes sense to
take a deep breath.”  The meeting between Bettman and union head Don Fehr at the
league’s headquarters marked the first talks since Sept. 1.  “The process is going to continue,” Fehr told reporters.
“There really isn’t much else to say at this point.”  He said the meetings were held “to try and find a way to
bridge the gap, that’s always the intent.”  Bettman said last month the owners wouldn’t operate the
2012-13 season without a new collective bargaining agreement.
The season is set to begin on Oct. 11, about three weeks after
training camps open.  The two sides are negotiating player compensation and
revenue sharing.  The NHL’s most recent proposal asked the players to accept
46 percent of the league’s hockey-related revenue over six
years, down from 57 percent in the current deal. The NHL
originally proposed that the players accept a 43 percent share.  The union countered the league’s original offer with a plan
on Aug. 14 to cut its share of hockey related revenue by between
$465 million and $800 million during the next three seasons,
depending on league growth. That proposal, which was rejected by
the NHL, didn’t include an elimination of the cap on salaries
and would increase revenue sharing to as much as $250 million a
year to help financially less-stable clubs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  