-- Noda May Fail to Meet Hu at APEC Amid Japan-China Tension
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-09-07T08:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/noda-may-fail-to-meet-hu-at-apec-amid-japan-china-tension.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  may fail to secure a meeting with Chinese President  Hu Jintao  at a summit in Russia this weekend as tensions rise over
a maritime territorial dispute.  “Formal talks are unlikely at this point,” Noda told
reporters today in Tokyo. Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura, who last week said the two leaders would meet at the
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit in Vladivostok, earlier
said “there’s still diplomatic back and forth” over whether
something could be arranged.  China has condemned Japan’s plan to buy islands, known as
Diaoyu in Chinese and Senkaku in Japanese, lying in the  East
China Sea  near oil and gas reserves. Tensions between Asia’s two
biggest economies has hurt Japanese companies such as  Nissan (7201) 
Motor Co. doing business in China.  “This is very difficult to control because if I’m a
Chinese leader I would rather be hard on Japan than be seen
working with them,” said  Robert Dujarric , director of the
Institute of Contemporary Asian Studies at  Temple University ’s
Tokyo campus. “Both sides have to figure out a way to tone down
the rhetoric. The stakes are much too high.”  Noda’s government is in talks to buy the islands from a
private Japanese owner, a plan that was set off by an attempted
purchase by Tokyo Governor and China critic Shintaro Ishihara.
Deputy Prime Minister  Katsuya Okada  said yesterday the deal
could lead to “peaceful and stable” relations with China, as
nationalization would eliminate any other plans for the islands.  China’s Disapproval  China’s government has repeatedly voiced its disapproval
and state-run media have been filled with editorials and
articles expression opposition to the move by Japan.  “The so-called nationalization of the island has seriously
damaged  China ’s sovereignty and hurt Chinese people’s
feelings,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a Sept.
5 briefing in Beijing. “China’s will and determination to
safeguard our sovereignty is unshakable.”  Ishihara’s announcement set off tit-for-tat visits by
activists on both sides of the islands and anti-Japanese
demonstrations in China and Hong Kong last month. The protests
have affected deliveries for Nissan, Japan’s biggest automaker
by sales in China, Chief Operating Officer Toshiyuki Shiga told
reporters yesterday at an auto forum in Chengdu, China.  Noda’s cabinet may approve a deal to buy the islands for
2.05 billion yen ($26.1 million) on Sept. 11, the Nikkei
newspaper said two days ago. Japan has administrative control
over the uninhabited islands and pays the Japanese owner rent, a
situation Okada described as “unstable” because they could be
sold to anyone.  Korea Dispute  Separately, Noda will meet Russian President  Vladimir Putin 
at APEC, Fujimura told reporters. Noda isn’t scheduled to meet
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  amid a separate dispute
over rocky islets claimed by both countries.  Lee last month made a surprise visit to the islets, known
as Dokdo in Korean and as Takeshima in Japanese, which Noda
called “unacceptable.” The two sides played a game of
diplomatic ping-pong over a letter Noda sent to Lee in protest,
and  South Korea  has rejected Japan’s proposal to take the
disagreement to the  International Court of Justice .  Japan is also embroiled in a territorial row with Russia
over an island chain seized by the Soviet Union at the end of
World War II. The sovereignty issue has prevented the two sides
from signing a formal peace treaty.  Noda said after meeting Putin in June that the two
countries would resume negotiations. Gemba met with Russian
Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  in July, and while they pledged
to continue talks on the issue, there is “a huge gap” between
the two countries, Japan’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement
following the meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  