-- Nomura May Buy Asian Investment Bank or Broker, Nagai Says
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a ,   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o   a n d   B r i a n   F o w l e r
-- 2012-09-08T01:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/nomura-may-acquire-asian-investment-bank-or-broker-nagai-says.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s
largest securities firm, may buy an Asian investment bank or
broker to tap the region’s economic growth and increasing number
of affluent people, Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai said.  The securities firm is reviewing “a couple” of potential
acquisition targets in Asia, Nagai, 53, said in an interview in
 Tokyo  yesterday. Countries including  China ,  India ,  Indonesia ,
 Thailand  and  Vietnam  are of interest, he said, without
elaborating on how much Nomura would be willing to spend or
which companies are being considered.  His remarks underscore a goal of making the region Nomura’s
“mother market” as Nagai, who took over as CEO last month,
seeks to stem  nine quarters of losses  overseas and add market
share at home after an insider-trading scandal. The company said
it plans to trim $1 billion of costs, with almost half to come
from  Europe , the region that lost the most money last year.  “The moves announced so far make sense in cutting costs,
adopting a more focused strategy and emphasizing the core
markets of Japan and the rest of Asia,” said  David Marshall , an
analyst at Creditsights Singapore LLC. “A key issue will be
convincing the best people to stay and that Nomura has a viable
future business outside Japan.”  The brokerage may buy assets or set up joint ventures with
local firms to get access to facilities and operations that it
doesn’t have, Nagai said. Tokyo-based Nomura has failed to
sustain  profit abroad  since it acquired Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s Asian and European operations in 2008.  Joint Ventures  “We want to operate fully licensed brokerage operations in
Asia, including retail,” Nagai said. “It’s not realistic to do
this from scratch.”  The company generated 2 percent of revenue from Asia,
excluding Japan, last quarter, 14 percent from Europe and 11
percent from the Americas, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The remaining 73 percent came from Japan.  Nagai may find China, India and  Southeast Asia  tough
markets to crack with deeply entrenched competitors.  In China, the five top-ranked managers of equity and bond
sales this year are local investment banks, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In India, fees for managing such deals or
advising on takeovers are a fifth of those in China, according
to April estimates from New York-based researcher Freeman & Co.  “If Nomura wants to do wholesale business in Asia, they
will need operations in China as there are opportunities
there,” said  Masao Muraki , a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank AG. “Asia is a competitive market.”  Asian Rivals  Some of Nomura’s largest Asian rivals have also started
making acquisitions to bolster their expansion plans.  Citic Securities Co. (6030)  on July 20 said it had bought a 19.9
percent stake in Hong Kong’s CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets and
planned to purchase the remaining shares by mid-2013 for a total
of $1.25 billion as it seeks to bolster overseas growth. The
Beijing-based company, which is ranked second among managers of
share sales in China, is almost 50 percent bigger than Nomura by
market value.  In Southeast Asia,  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB)  agreed in April
to buy most of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s investment
banking and cash equities businesses in Asia for $142 million.
The Kuala Lumpur-based firm was already one of the region’s top-
ranked investment banks.  ‘Throwing Money’  Nagai “is the right man to be running the domestic
operations, but I was always concerned they were going to end up
throwing money at an Asian broker,” said  Nicholas Smith , a
strategist at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets Ltd. in Tokyo. “My
fears look like they are going to be realized.”  Until taking the top job on Aug. 1, Nagai had worked at the
brokerage’s domestic unit, which he took charge of in April. He
joined Nomura in 1981 after graduating from Chuo University in
Tokyo.  The firm plans to reduce costs by $450 million in Europe
and the  Middle East , $210 million in the Americas, $180 million
in Asia and $160 million in Japan, it told investors in Tokyo on
Sept. 6. It expects to complete the program by March 2014.  About 45 percent of the cuts  worldwide  will be from
trimming jobs, with the rest coming from other operational
expenses, the company said. The bulk of the job losses will be
in investment banking and equities, it said.  Nomura will begin communicating the job cuts to staff on
Sept. 17 in Europe,  Asia  and the Americas, the CEO said in the
interview.  The company posted a 12.1 billion yen ($153 million) pretax
loss from businesses abroad in the three months ended June.
Europe lost 16.4 billion yen, Asia lost 1.9 billion yen and the
Americas generated a pretax profit of 6.3 billion yen.  “Our Japanese clients expect us to make the most of our
strength in Asia,” Nagai said. “Asia is growing, and so are
our clients’ needs there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Fowler in Tokyo at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  