-- NYC Best: Madonna Strips, Hugh Laurie Sings, Meatopia
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-09-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/nyc-best-madonna-strips-hugh-laurie-sings-meatopia.html
Visit the amusing Bruce High Quality
Foundation installation at Lever House.  On the plaza, there’s “The New Colossus,” a 12-foot cast-
bronze incarnation of the inflatable scab rat you see at
construction sites with union headaches.  Inside, a ladder, mop, bucket, wheelbarrow and filing
cabinet are equipped with speakers broadcasting a protest a la
 Martin Luther . This is “Art History with Labor: 95 Theses.”  The collective was founded in 2004 to “foster an
alternative to everything.”  Runs through Sept. 28 at 390 Park Ave. Information:
 http://leverhouseartcollection.com .  Saturday Evening  Carnivores will head to Meatopia, a chef-heavy feast on
Randall’s Island hosted by founder Josh Ozersky.  April Bloomfield is preparing a Kansas City-style barbecued
hog, while others do a whole thousand-pound steer.  U.S. Navy SEALs are grilling venison steaks, Harold Moore
of Commerce is cooking up squab, while Balthazar’s Shane McBride
concocts smoked duck neck gumbo.  Musical accompaniment is by Woods, the Living Kills and the
Slackers.  From 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Randall’s Island. Information:
 http://meatopia.org .  Saturday Night  Madonna rolls into Yankee Stadium with her “MDNA” tour,
mixing classics with the new.  Expect to see the Queen of Pop morph from gun-toting
assassin to club goddess, surrounded by an extravaganza of
tireless singers and dancers.  Never shy, Madonna strips down to lingerie, revealing the
“No Fear” written on her back.  At 161st St. and River Ave., Bronx. Information: +1-718-
293-4300;  http://www.madonna.com .  For a different kind of musical evening, Hugh Laurie is
touring in support of his debut blues album, “Let Them Talk.”  Best known as TV’s irascible Dr. Gregory House, Laurie
plays the piano and sings his favorites with the Copper Bottom
Band, including tunes recorded by Lead Belly.  At the newly restored Capitol Theatre, 149 Westchester
Ave., Port Chester, N.Y. Information: +1-914-934-9362;
 http://www.thecapitoltheatre.com .  Sunday Matinee  Delve into the struggle between a principled man and the
self-deluding, profit-worshipping masses led by his brother in
“An Enemy of the People.”  Directed by Doug Hughes, the new adaptation of the Ibsen
classic stars Boyd Gaines and  Richard Thomas .  In previews at the Samuel J. Friedman Theatre, 261 W. 47
St., for a Sept. 27 opening. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.manhattantheatreclub.com .  Sunday Evening  Famous cockroach Archy makes an appearance at the Cathedral
of St. John the Divine.  A poet in a previous incarnation, Archy wrote about his
adventures using a newspaper office typewriter -- in lower case,
since he couldn’t work the shift key.  Created by Don Marquis in 1916, the literary insect had a
best friend, Mehitabel, the diva alley cat, as well as a circle
of other friendly critters.  They all come to life as puppets under the skillful hands
of the Mettawee River Theatre Company.  At the Cathedral Pulpit Green, 1047 Amsterdam Ave.
Information: +1-212-929-4777;  http://mettawee.org .  Post-puppetry, go to Community Food & Juice for a
strawberry rhubarb margarita and sake steamed mussels, followed
by the sour cherry strudel.  At 2898 Broadway. Information: +1-212-665-2800.  Clowns from as far away as  Mexico ,  Finland  and  New Zealand 
are bringing their acts to  New York .  Tonight it’s Adam Gertsacov’s “Buffoon Anonymous: 12 Steps
to Inanity,” about a man unable to quit slapstick.  The New York Clown Theatre Festival runs through Sept. 30
at the Brick, 579 Metropolitan Avenue, Williamsburg,  Brooklyn .
Information: +1-718-285-3863;  http://bricktheater.com .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham ’s  podcast  and Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 