-- Obama Delays Report to Congress on Automatic Cuts to Next Week
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-09-07T15:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/obama-delays-report-to-congress-on-automatic-cuts-to-next-week.html
The Obama administration will send
to Congress next week a report spelling out how billions of
dollars in automatic spending cuts will be carried out beginning
Jan. 2, missing a deadline set by lawmakers.  White House press secretary Jay Carney today told reporters
traveling with President  Barack Obama  to a campaign event that
the report will be sent to the Capitol “late next week,”
without being specific. He cited “a lot of complicating
factors” in detailing the cuts.  The automatic  spending cuts  totaling about $1.2 trillion
through 2021 were part of a deal between the White House and
Congress after talks failed last year on a bipartisan plan to
curb the nation’s increasing  debt .  Yesterday was the deadline set in legislation signed by
Obama on Aug. 7 that required the Office of Management and
Budget to report on how it would comply with last year’s budget-
control law.  Republicans in Congress yesterday criticized the
administration for failing to deliver the report on time.  “Despite repeated inquires, the White House has yet to
tell us when they are sending up the report,” John Ashbrook, a
spokesman for Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of
Kentucky, said.  The budget office report is supposed to outline what how
the cuts would affect government programs, expressed in both
dollars and percentages.  Exemptions  It’s also supposed to list which programs are exempt.
Lawmakers put mandatory programs such as  Social Security  off
limits, and the administration has said military pay and
veterans’ health-care programs should be left alone. Other
programs, such as  student loans , are subject to special rules.  The cuts would amount to $109 billion next year, coming
equally out of defense and nondefense spending. Democrats are
insisting that Republicans accept some tax increases in exchange
for altering the defense cuts. No proposal to avoid the
reductions has gained support.  A Bloomberg Government analysis estimated that
sequestration would cut 9.6 percent from non-exempt Pentagon
accounts, including for the war in Afghanistan, and 9.1 percent
from nondefense discretionary spending.  Kevin Smith , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , an
 Ohio Republican , said Obama should “follow the law he signed
and tell the American people how he plans to implement, or
replace, these devastating cuts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  