-- Obama ‘Hope’ Artist Fairey Sentenced to Community Service
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-09-07T16:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/obama-hope-artist-fairey-sentenced-to-community-service.html
Shepard Fairey , the artist who
created an iconic 2008 election poster of  Barack Obama  based on
an Associated Press photo, was sentenced to 300 hours of
community service for destroying documents and manufacturing
evidence in a copyright suit with AP over the image.  Fairey, of  Los Angeles , was also ordered to pay a $25,000
fine by U.S. Magistrate Judge Frank Maas today in  Manhattan 
federal court. Fairey pleaded guilty in February and faced as
long as six months in jail.  Fairey, 42, apologized for his actions, calling them “the
worst thing I’ve ever done in my life.”  The plea stemmed from a civil copyright case Fairey and AP
settled last year. Fairey had sued AP in 2009, seeking a ruling
that his poster didn’t infringe the copyright because his use of
the photograph was protected by “fair use.” The news
organization countersued.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Daniel Levy  urged Maas to sentence
Fairey to some time in jail or in a halfway house.  “This was extraordinarily serious litigation misconduct,”
Levy argued.  Fairey’s lawyer,  Daniel Gitner , argued that his client had
agreed to pay $1.6 million to AP to settle the civil suit and to
compensate the news service for his misconduct.  In addition to the fine and community service, Maas
sentenced Fairey to two years’ probation, which he said may be
reduced after a year once he completes the community work.  Presidential Race  In support of Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign, Fairey
made posters using a stylized likeness of the candidate with the
words “Hope” and “Progress” below the images, relying on a
photograph copyrighted by AP, according to the government.  In his complaint, Fairey claimed he used as a visual
reference an AP photograph of then-Senator Obama and actor
 George Clooney  taken at an April 2006 National Press Club event,
according to prosecutors. In fact, Fairey used another image
from the same event -- a tightly cropped image of Obama gazing
up, which was also an AP photograph, the government claimed.  To cover up his false complaint, Fairey created multiple
fraudulent documents attempting to show that he had used the
photograph of Obama and Clooney, and he tried to delete
electronically stored documents that demonstrated that he had
used the tightly cropped image, prosecutors said.  “I accept the judge’s sentence and look forward to finally
putting this episode behind me,” Fairey said in a written
statement distributed after the hearing.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Fairey, 1:12-cr-00180, and the
civil case is Fairey v.  Associated Press , 1:09-cv-01123, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 