-- Obama’s Underwhelming Speech
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-07T10:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/obama-s-underwhelming-speech.html
It wasn’t even the best speech of
the week, never mind his career.  Instead, President  Barack Obama ’s  acceptance speech  last
night at the Democratic National Convention in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , was a prosaic call for support accompanied by some
vague plans for action. Now it is up to Obama and his Republican
opponent,  Mitt Romney , to fill in the details that will help
voters choose between them.  Convention speeches,  we concede , are not policy briefings.
(Though former President  Bill Clinton ’s  defense  of Obama’s
record on Wednesday -- along with  Michelle Obama ’s  defense  of
her husband’s character, the best speech of the week -- came
pretty close.) Still, there is room for more specifics than
Obama provided last night, or Romney did last week.  Obama’s greatest missed opportunity may have been his
cursory treatment of the  federal budget  deficit: He reiterated
his plan to reduce it by $4 trillion over the next decade. What
no one knows -- does the president? -- is how to get there from
here.  On other topics, Obama was better. His discussion of
foreign policy was effective, in real terms because he has
achievements to brag about, and in relative terms because
Romney’s last week was onion-paper-thin (it was about four
paragraphs). On  climate change , even if it was a throwaway line,
it was nice to hear the U.S. president state baldly that it “is
not a hoax”; if he wins re-election, maybe he can reopen the
issue of a carbon tax.  It would be churlish to criticize Obama too much for
vagueness, given the occasion. Yet that was the curious thing
about this speech: If it didn’t get down into the details,
neither did it soar. The best single line was  Abraham Lincoln ’s
-- “I have been driven to my knees many times by the
overwhelming conviction that I had no place else to go” -- and
there was nothing comparable to Obama’s eloquence in  his
speeches at  the 2004 and 2008 conventions.  Maybe we’re just spoiled. But it’s also possible that
Americans this year are not looking for inspiration so much as
reassurance. If that’s the case, then the argument for a more
substantive campaign is all the stronger.  It may be foolish, if not naive, to hope for a wonky
presidential campaign. Happy platitudes are the lingua franca of
politics -- and knowing the difference between pleasingly vague
and utterly vacuous is an occupational requirement for a
politician. Which candidate called the U.S. “the greatest
country in the history of the world” in his acceptance speech,
and which called it merely “the greatest nation on Earth”? Is
there a difference? Does it matter? How will they describe the
U.S. tomorrow? Discuss.  Actually, let’s not. Let’s stipulate that it is often
difficult to get candidates to be specific, and that they may
even occasionally have valid reasons not to be. Let’s further
stipulate that politicians sometimes say things (we’re being
kind here) for convenience sake, and that they may even
occasionally have valid reasons for changing their minds.
Finally, there are the interests of the audience to consider:
MSNBC and Fox News are more popular than C-Span, and probably
always will be.  None of it matters. It’s not as if we have any other
choice. For the past two weeks, each party has busied itself
with characterizations of the other’s (apocalyptic, of course)
plans. Both candidates have sketched out broad visions of where
they would like to lead the U.S. It’s past time for them to
start explaining more precisely how they plan to get there.  Obama and Romney are scheduled to have  three debates  this
fall that will provide them 5 1/2 hours of serious argument over
three weeks. The debates aren’t until next month, but the
candidates should feel free to begin their discussion now.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  European Central Bank’s
new bond-buying plan  and on why the  U.S. needs to pay more
attention to APEC ; Stephen L. Carter on “hopefully” and other
 desecrations of the English language ; William Pesek on a  Romney
presidency causing no worries in China ;  Jonathan Weil  on how low
can  Facebook shares go ;  Steven Greenhut  on why  California is
broken , not broke.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 