-- Obama Trades Barbs With Romney in Post-Convention Campaign
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-09-08T17:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/obama-pursues-romney-through-battlegrounds-as-conventions-fade.html
President  Barack Obama , campaigning
in Florida, told voters in this battleground state with a
concentration of senior citizens that he’ll protect their
Medicare and  Social Security  while suggesting Republican  Mitt Romney  would not.  “I will never turn Medicare into voucher system,” Obama
told 11,000 supporters at St. Petersburg College’s Seminole
campus in Seminole, Florida. Republicans’ idea of reform is
“just dumping the cost on seniors,” Democrat Obama said.  Obama pledged to “keep the promise of Social Security”
and “not by turning it over to  Wall Street .” Obama also said
Romney’s call to repeal the health-care expansion known as
“Obamacare” earns its own nickname: “Romneydon’tcare.”  Obama and Romney are trading long-distance barbs through
key swing states as the post-convention phase of the campaign
gets under way.  Romney has rallies today New Hampshire and in  Virginia ,
where he’ll attend a NASCAR race tonight at the Richmond
International Raceway. Romney campaign spokesman  Ryan Williams ,
in a statement after Obama spoke in Seminole, said the
president’s speech was full of “empty promises and false
attacks” and that Obama isn’t doing enough to create jobs.  Hugging Obama  In Seminole, Obama was introduced by  Charlie Crist , the
former Republican Florida governor who is now giving his support
to Democrats. Crist was chided in his own party for hugging
Obama early in his presidency and he lost a 2010 Senate bid to
Marco Rubio. Today, the Democratic crowd cheered as Crist and
Obama hugged onstage.  Obama said he will reduce the deficit “without sticking it
to the middle class” while Romney would reduce regulation of
Wall Street and prioritize more tax breaks for wealthy
Americans.  While Obama yesterday only touched on a disappointing jobs
report, Romney, in  Iowa , hammered the president over the
nation’s 8.1 percent  unemployment rate  and a disappointing jobs
report that the Republican nominee called “simply
unimaginable.”  The U.S. Labor Department reported the economy added 96,000
jobs in August, down from a revised gain of 141,000 in July and
fewer than forecast. While the unemployment rate fell from 8.3
percent in July, the report showed 368,000 Americans left the
job market and the share of the working-age population in the
 labor force  slumped to 63.5 percent, the lowest since 1981.  Tax Cuts  Chiding Republicans for urging more tax cuts for high
earners, Obama told 6,000 supporters yesterday in Portsmouth,
New Hampshire, his opponents may as well recommend tax cuts to
“help you lose a few pounds” or “improve your love life.” He
added: “It’ll cure anything, according to them. I’ve cut taxes
for people who need it.”  Obama also campaigned in Iowa before he flew to  Florida ,
where he’ll end tomorrow in  West Palm Beach . Romney released 15
new television advertisements targeted at voters in eight
battleground states that argue Americans are no better off than
they were when Obama took office.  Last night, at a minor league baseball park in Nashua, New
Hampshire, Romney called the latest jobs numbers “another
disappointing, sad report,” and said the president hasn’t
leveled with the public about the impact of his agenda.  “This president hasn’t taken responsibility for what has
been a failure of his economic policies,” Romney told a crowd
of 4,000 at Holman Stadium, home of the Nashua Silver Knights,
as they hoisted red and white signs from their seats spelling
out MITT in giant letters. Obama’s convention speech, Romney
said, “was a whole series of new promises. He didn’t deliver on
the last ones; why should we expect him to deliver on these?”  Gaining Momentum  Obama adviser  David Plouffe  told reporters traveling on Air
Force One that the president left the convention “with
momentum,” driven in part by former President  Bill Clinton ’s
advocacy in a prime-time convention speech.  Plouffe said he didn’t expect either convention to produce
major changes in the dynamics of the race.  “Our belief is that we entered the convention with a small
but important lead in most” of eight battleground states,
Plouffe said. “Our suspicion is the race is going to be about
where it was. And that’s a problem for Mitt Romney.”  Obama’s job approval reached a 15-month high during the
Democratic convention, according to a Gallup Poll. Conducted
Sept. 4-6 and released yesterday, it found 52 percent of
Americans approve of the president’s job performance, up 3
percentage points from a survey conducted Sept. 3-5. In the new
poll, 43 percent disapproved of the job Obama is doing, down
from 45 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Seminole, Florida, at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Nashua,  New Hampshire ,  at
   jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  