-- Obama Joins Fight With Republicans On Job Creation Road Map
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-09-07T13:29:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/obama-joins-fight-with-republicans-over-roadmap-to-create-jobs.html
Democrats pounded home a message of
reassurance this week, promising voters a return to broad,
middle-class prosperity and warning that Republicans would
abandon them to a sink-or-swim future.  “I never said this journey would be easy, and I won’t
promise that now,” President  Barack Obama  said last night as he
formally accepted his party’s nomination for a second term.
“Yes our road is longer -- but we travel it together. We don’t
turn back. We leave no one behind. We pull each other up.”  After two weeks of dueling political rhetoric in Tampa,
Florida, and Charlotte,  North Carolina , today’s monthly jobs
report provides a fresh test of the president’s approach.
Payrolls rose less than projected in August and the  unemployment
rate  declined as more Americans left the  labor force , indicating
the U.S. labor market is stagnating.  The economy added 96,000 workers last month, while the
median estimate of 92 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a gain of 130,000. Unemployment unexpectedly fell to 8.1
percent, and hourly earnings were unchanged.  Employment was the cloud that hung over Democrats as they
attended sober panel discussions, partied and renewed their
enthusiasm for Obama, 2008’s icon of “hope and change.” As
Republicans reminded them, the jobless rate has held above 8
percent for 43 months. No president since  Franklin Roosevelt  has
been re-elected with unemployment above 7.4 percent.  Repackaging Policies  Obama last night repackaged familiar administration
policies into what he called a “real achievable plan that will
lead to new jobs, more opportunity and rebuild this economy on a
stronger foundation.”  Republicans countered that voters should doubt his ability
to deliver.  “Over the last four years, the president has said that he
was going to create jobs for the American people and that hasn’t
happened,” said the party’s presidential nominee  Mitt Romney .
“He said he would cut the deficit in half and that hasn’t
happened. He said that incomes would rise, and instead incomes
have gone down.”  Evidence of the economy’s sluggish state comes from the
 Federal Reserve . The nation’s central bank has promised to keep
 interest rates  near zero through the end of 2014.  Weak Growth  Such extraordinary low rates mean  weak economic growth ,
with unemployment potentially remaining as high as 7.7 percent
two years from now, according to the Fed’s latest forecast.  “We have seen no net improvement in the unemployment rate
since January,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an Aug. 31
speech in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. “Unless the economy begins to
grow more quickly than it has recently, the unemployment rate is
likely to remain far above levels consistent with maximum
employment for some time.”  If the frequent assertions by Democrats that Obama has the
economy moving in the right direction verged on defensive, some
party strategists think the Republicans are overplaying their
hand in criticizing the administration.  “Republicans have built their entire narrative around the
economy being worse than four years ago, and it’s just factually
wrong,” said Simon Rosenberg, president of New Democratic
Network, a Washington-based research and advocacy group, at an
event sponsored by The Hill newspaper.  Jobs Improvement  The still-poor jobs market has improved on Obama’s watch.
In January 2009, the economy lost 818,000 jobs and another
724,000 Americans became jobless the following month.  So far this year, employers have created an average of
139,250 jobs a month.  The unemployment rate peaked nine months into Obama’s
presidency at 10 percent. Though the economy, growing at an
annual rate of 1.7 percent in the second quarter, remains
subpar, showing progress will be sufficient for voters,
Democrats say.  To help make their case, Democrats deployed former
President  Bill Clinton , who presided over the creation of 21
million jobs in the 1990s, as a sort of economic character
witness for Obama.  Clinton employed the language of the workplace to argue
Obama’s case. “He has laid the foundations for a new, modern,
successful economy of shared prosperity,” he told delegates on
Sept. 5. “And if you will renew the president’s contract, you
will feel it. You will feel it.”  Voters’ Choice  Democrats offered voters what Obama described as “a choice
between two different paths for America.” Clinton said voters
could choose between “shared prosperity” and the “you’re-on-
your-own” world he said the Republicans were peddling.  It’s also a choice, he said, between continuing along a
difficult, though ultimately rewarding road, or returning to a
set of policies the Democrats blame for the 2008 crisis.  The Democrats embraced  government spending  on education,
worker training and infrastructure that Republicans deride as
wasteful. With echoes of the “bridge to the 21st century” that
he promised during an earlier time of transition, Clinton said
government must prepare Americans for a reshaped economy that
will barely resemble the credit-fueled enterprise that went into
a tailspin in 2008.  “The old economy is not coming back,” he told delegates.
“We’ve got to build a new one.”  Jobless Rate  While Democrats talk of building an economy rich with
exports and manufacturing, they recognize the jobless rate is an
electoral vulnerability.  “What’s tough is the jobs picture,” Governor John Hickenlooper of Colorado said in an interview with Bloomberg.
“A lot of those jobs we’ve lost because of outsourcing and
technological change; they’re not coming back.”  North Carolina, host to this week’s convention, underscores
the threat. Obama won the state, where vacant textile mills bear
witness to the scars of economic change, by just 14,000 votes in
2008 and the jobless rate is 9.6 percent, more than a percentage
point above the national average.  White House Communications Director  Dan Pfeiffer  played
down the importance of today’s jobs report, calling it “one of
an array of factors” reflecting the economy’s performance,
adding that the number was “more focused on in Washington than
by the average American.”  Defending Obama  The Democrats’ electoral case involved a defense of the
unpopular tools Obama used to rescue the economy in 2009, an
assertion that a full-scale economic reconstruction is under
way, and a full-throated defense of his values.  Austan Goolsbee , former head of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, was among those this week defending the
stimulus program, which the  Congressional Budget Office 
estimates  cost $821 billion .  “It wasn’t enough to overcome the worst downturn of all
time,” he told a Politico panel. “But it would have been a
hell of a lot worse if there hadn’t been a stimulus.”  The budget office calculated that the stimulus raised
employment in the fourth quarter of 2011 by 300,000 to 2
million.  In a February  survey  of leading economists by the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business, 93 percent said
unemployment at the end of 2010 was lower because of the
stimulus. By a margin of 60 percent to 14 percent, they agreed
the program’s benefits would exceed the costs; 26 percent
weren’t sure.  Free Enterprise  The Democrats also took steps to deflect Republican charges
that the president is hostile to free enterprise, showcasing the
co-founder and former chief executive of  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) ,
a familiar locale for the suburban voters coveted by both
parties.  Jim Sinegal, who has contributed $39,400 to Democratic
candidates this year, told delegates: “Business needs a
president who has covered the backs of businesses. A president
who understands what the private sector needs to succeed. A
president who takes the long view and makes the tough
decisions.”  Costco has flourished on Obama’s watch, adding about 17,000
new jobs and witnessing its stock price rising 112 percent.  Led by Clinton, the Democrats also took a swipe at the
Republicans for blocking Obama initiatives that might have
created more jobs.  Jobs Plan  The $447 billion jobs plan Obama proposed last September
would have cut the  payroll tax  for workers in half, reduced
taxes for small businesses, expanded infrastructure spending on
roads, bridges and school refurbishing, and provided assistance
to state and local governments to avoid layoffs of teachers,
police officers and firefighters.  Congress extended an expiring 2 percentage-point payroll
tax cut, though not the full 3.1 percentage-point cut Obama had
requested. Most of the rest of the provisions were blocked by
congressional Republicans.  Had the entire package been passed, 1.9 million new jobs
would have been created by the end of 2012, estimated  Mark Zandi , chief economist of Moody’s Analytics Inc. Another
forecasting firm, Macroeconomic Advisers, projected the full
package would have created 1.3 million jobs.  Republicans said the Democratic arguments missed their
mark. “They go so over the top in their criticisms, it’s almost
a caricature,” said  Tony Fratto , a former spokesman for
President  George W. Bush . “A Republican future -- it’s not
Bleak House.”  While Obama hopes to benefit from Clinton’s economic seal
of approval, he can’t expect to rerun the Clinton boom, when the
economy expanded at an average annual rate of 3.9 percent.  Neither the Federal Reserve nor Wall Street forecasters
anticipate anything close to that performance in the next few
years, meaning unemployment will likely remain elevated.  The economy will grow at an annual rate of 2.1 percent next
year and 2.8 percent in 2014, according to economists surveyed
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Tampa, Florida at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net 
Mike Dorning in Tampa, Florida at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 