-- Obama Officials Met Oil Analysts Amid Concerns Prices May Rise
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-09-07T18:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/obama-officials-met-oil-analysts-amid-concerns-prices-may-rise.html
The Obama administration conferred
with outside oil-market experts yesterday, as government
officials expressed concern about rising crude prices, a person
with direct knowledge of the the meeting said.  The discussion focused on the factors influencing global
prices now and in the months ahead, the person said. The talks
at the White House didn’t bear directly on a release of supplies
from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. The administration hasn’t
made a decision on whether to release oil from the reserve, and
there was no discussion of any deadline for a decision,
according to the person.  Pressure on President  Barack Obama  to release oil from
strategic inventories increased last month after Hurricane Isaac
shut production platforms and refineries in and around the  Gulf
of Mexico , helping to boost gasoline prices. The Interior
Department said today that almost 36 percent of Gulf of Mexico
oil production remains closed.  Light, sweet crude oil for October delivery rose 94 cents,
or 1 percent, to $96.47 a barrel at 1:17 p.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange.  Brent crude  oil was trading at $114.20 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, fell 0.1
cent to $3.822 a gallon yesterday, AAA data showed. Prices are
up 16.5 cents from a year ago, or 4.5 percent.  Brent Crude  Release of oil from the strategic reserve may be more
likely should Brent crude reach $120 a barrel, the person
familiar with yesterday’s meeting said. While the administration
officials were concerned about the prospects of higher gasoline
prices, they weren’t convinced oil will continue to rise.  A White House official confirmed the meeting with outside
oil-market experts. The official said these types of meetings
happen periodically, and are not specific to any one issue.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  has said frequently
in recent weeks that “all options” are on the table, including
the release of oil from strategic inventories, to ease prices if
they increase too much.  On Aug. 31, the U.S. Energy Department agreed to lend 1
million barrels of crude from the strategic reserve to  Marathon
Petroleum Corp. (MPC)  to resolve a short-term supply shortage caused
by Isaac.  G-7 Statement  The Group of Seven nations on Aug. 28 said it’s prepared to
call upon the  International Energy Agency , a 28-member group of
oil-consuming countries, “to take appropriate action to ensure
that the market is fully and timely supplied.” IEA nations made
available 60 million barrels of crude and oil products in June
2011 after Libyan output was disrupted by an armed uprising
against  Muammar Qaddafi .  The G-7 is monitoring the threats to their economies posed
by high  oil prices , according to a joint statement issued on
Aug. 28 by the U.S.  Treasury Department .  Yesterday’s White House energy meeting was previously
reported by Reuters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net 
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  