-- OCZ Speculation for Seagate-to-Micron Rises With Slump
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   W i l l   R o b i n s o n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-09-07T16:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/ocz-speculation-for-seagate-to-micron-rises-with-slump-real-m-a.html
OCZ Technology Group Inc. (OCZ)  has never
been cheaper for an acquirer looking to profit from the shift to
flash memory in personal computers and video games.  OCZ shares plunged yesterday after the  San Jose ,
California-based maker of solid-state disk drives said fiscal
second-quarter sales were lower than prior forecasts because of
a shortage of memory chips used in its products. The tumble in
the $294 million company’s stock to  as low as  $3.90 sent OCZ
below its previous record low closing price relative to book
value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While supply constraints caused the revenue disappointment,
OCZ said demand for its drives is strong and bookings are higher
than expected, and analysts still project it will generate the
industry’s fastest sales growth over the next two years. After
the stock drop, Piper Jaffray Cos. says OCZ may be more willing
to accept a deal and could attract  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  or
 Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  as they look to benefit from the growing
flash-technology market. One trader bought bullish OCZ  options 
contracts yesterday that pay off if the stock climbs to $7 or
$8, and MKM Partners LLC said that could be a bet on a takeover.  “OCZ stands out as being extremely cheap on a valuation
basis,” Karl Richter, senior  fund manager  for  West
Conshohocken , Pennsylvania-based AlphaOne Capital Partners LLC,
which oversees more than $450 million, said in a telephone
interview. “This is absolutely one of the highest unit growth
areas in technology. M&A does make sense here.”  Bonnie Mott, a spokeswoman for OCZ, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call and e-mail requesting comment.  Flash Memory  Formed in 2002 , OCZ makes solid-state storage drives for
use in PCs, gaming devices and mobile-phone handsets, as well as
data centers and storage-area networks. The drives, employing
flash-memory semiconductors and technology with no moving parts,
are faster and more efficient at storing and accessing data than
the traditional hard-disk drives that rely on spinning platters
to hold information.  OCZ  shares  surged 30 percent to $7.08 a share on July 27
after Bright Side of News, an online industry publication,
 reported  that Seagate may buy the company. The stock then
retreated last month as no deal materialized.  This month, after the close of the market on Sept. 5, OCZ
reported preliminary fiscal second-quarter sales of $110 million
to $120 million, down from a prior projected range of $130
million to $140 million. OCZ blamed the shortfall on a shortage
of certain Nand flash components -- semiconductors used to store
data -- and said  gross margins  will also suffer as the company
used higher-cost flash memory on some of its products to fill
the gap caused by the tightened supply.  Limited Visibility  OCZ management said on a Sept. 5 conference call that its
bookings have still been higher than expected and it continues
to carry a “significant backlog.” The company didn’t provide a
full-year revenue forecast.  “They went out of their way not to update guidance, so
that tells you that their visibility at this point is limited
due to this Nand supply issue,” Alex Kurtz, an analyst with
Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  San Francisco , said in a phone
interview. “That’s going to impact the revenue outlook for the
company at this point.”  OCZ’s shares tumbled as much as 27 percent yesterday
following its preliminary sales announcement. It fell to 1.05
times the value of its net assets, below its lowest-ever price-
book ratio of 1.13 reached in June, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The stock ended the day valued at 1.18 times book
value, the data show.  The company was also trading at a 47 percent discount to
 projected sales  of $552 million for fiscal 2013 ending in
February, based on the average of seven analysts’ estimates
updated yesterday after OCZ’s statement.  Today, OCZ climbed 4.9 percent to $4.56 at 12:27 p.m.  New
York  time, the second-biggest advance among 411 stocks in the
Russell 3000 Technology Index.  Still Growing  The seven analysts are still forecasting OCZ’s sales will
climb 114 percent by the end of fiscal 2014, according to the
estimates. That would top revenue growth projected at all other
similar-sized companies in the data-storage industry, including
OCZ’s two closest rivals,  Fusion-io Inc. (FIO)  and  Stec Inc. (STEC) , data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Seagate, the world’s largest maker of computer-disk drives,
and chipmaker Micron may be lured by OCZ’s technology, said
Andrew Nowinski, a Minneapolis-based analyst for Piper Jaffray.
Western Digital also would be a logical buyer, said AlphaOne’s
Richter.  Micron supplies Nand flash memory chips to OCZ to use in
its drives, so the companies already have a relationship and
Micron could look to buy it, according to Richter. Seagate and
 Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  also could benefit from buying OCZ because
the market for OCZ’s drives is growing faster than the hard-disk
drives Seagate and Western Digital produce, he said.  Longer View  “For now, the absolute unit shipments of solid-state
drives are small compared to hard-disk drives, but solid-state
drives are growing tremendously,” Richter said. “Those guys
are looking out a couple of years and seeing that this becomes a
much greater market.”  Brian Ziel, a spokesman for Dublin-based Seagate, Daniel Francisco, a spokesman for Boise, Idaho-based Micron, and  Steve Shattuck , a spokesman for  Irvine , California-based Western
Digital, said the companies don’t comment on speculation, when
asked whether they are interested in acquiring OCZ.  While the desire for a foothold in the flash-memory drive
market will likely spur companies to make acquisitions, OCZ
isn’t at the “top of the list” of targets because it doesn’t
have enough of a technological advantage to stand out from its
peers, said  Edward Parker , a New York-based analyst at Lazard
Capital Markets LLC.  Technology Leaders  “Historically they haven’t had a lot of technology,
they’ve relied primarily on third parties and they’ve assembled
it themselves,” he said in a phone interview. “If you look
around where consolidation in the market has been, it has been
around pockets of technology leadership.”  Gary Mobley, a St. Louis-based analyst at Benchmark Co.,
said that Seagate has described the type of solid-state drive
company it would want to acquire as being one that is software-
centric and profitable.  “Neither one of those characteristics are possessed by
OCZ,” he said.  The company reported  losses  in each of the last four fiscal
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Still,  shareholders  frustrated by the price drop may now
start pushing for a sale, said Piper Jaffray’s Nowinski. If OCZ
were to receive an offer for $7 to $8 a share, the company would
have to take it seriously, he said. OCZ options activity
yesterday was concentrated on that  price range .  An investor bought 4,000 OCZ October $7 calls for 15 cents
each and about the same number of bullish October $8 contracts
for 10 cents each, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
trader is positioning for the stock to go above $7 and possibly
higher than $8 before the options expire on Oct. 19.  ‘Bullish Intentions’  “These investors appear to be trying to take advantage of
today’s sell-off in order to position for a significant upside
move in the near-term,” Kurt Ayling, a New York-based
technology analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group LLP, said in
an interview. “They appear to clearly have bullish intentions
as these are not exactly the type of calls that you would use
for a more conservative strategy, such as to hedge a short
position, because they are so far out-of-the money.”  About 33,000  calls  to buy the stock changed hands
yesterday, 5.4 times the four-week average and the highest since
the end of July, the data show. The bullish volume was 2.9 times
more than the number of puts to sell.  The bet that OCZ’s stock will climb more than 61 percent in
the next six weeks could be a sign of takeover speculation,
according to Jim Strugger, a derivatives strategist at MKM
Partners in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  “Although OCZ pre-announced negatively and the stock
dropped, there still appears to be interest in positioning for a
potential takeover,” Strugger said in an interview. “The
October $7 and $8 strike calls were bought to open and likely
require a significant catalyst such as an acquisition to be in
the money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net . 