-- Odd Lots Considered for Official Count of U.S. Trading Volume
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-09-07T16:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/odd-lots-considered-for-official-count-of-u-s-trading-volume.html
Hundreds of millions of shares
traded each day in companies such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and
International Business Machines Corp. may be added for the first
time to the official tally of U.S. equity volume.  Securities exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority plan to consider adding trades of fewer than 100
shares, known as odd lots, to the record of transactions, Colin Clark, senior vice president at NYSE Euronext, said in a phone
interview. There’s general support for modifying the so-called
consolidated tape of transactions to include them, he said.  “There’s been a trending increase in odd-lot activity,”
Clark said. “It’s a meaningful amount of activity not being
reported. It’s time to get some more transparency.”  The policy of leaving odd lots out resulted in about 4
percent of volume being omitted from the official count in late
2009, up from 2.3 percent about two years earlier, a 2011 paper
by Maureen O’Hara, a finance professor at  Cornell University ,
and Chen Yao and  Mao Ye  of the  University of Illinois  found. The
trades are now more likely to be from high-frequency firms,
indicating a shift from their traditional source among
individual investors, the study said.  Only executions of at least 100 shares, known as a round
lot, are included in the record of transactions and compiled in
the Trade and Quote Database, or TAQ, used by academics to study
asset prices, trading and investor behavior. Compared with most
of the 1990s when odd lots accounted for less than 1 percent of
 New York  Stock Exchange volume, their omission now distorts
analyses, according to the July 2011 paper.  Greater Role  “While this policy may have been sensible in the past,
fragmentation, high-frequency trading, and the widespread use of
algorithms have changed markets in fundamental ways,” the co-
authors wrote. “Our results suggest that odd-lot trades have
changed as well, and they now play a new, and far from
irrelevant, role in the market.”  Odd lots are a “large and significant problem” for stocks
with higher prices or less liquidity, the co-authors said. They
called them the industry’s “missing trades” and said they
should be introduced into the public transaction data.  The number of odd-lot trades has increased since 2008, when
the data for their study began. The amount of traded shares
going uncounted rose to 4.9 percent in the first 11 months of
2011, Ye said by phone. Computerized trading that breaks orders
into smaller pieces to limit price moves is the main reason for
the increase, he said.  Missing Trades  The study examined 120 stocks listed on NYSE and  Nasdaq 
Stock Market that were traded on Nasdaq. If the figures are
extended to the entire U.S. equities market, the missing trades
in 2011 would have reached almost 390 million shares a day,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The emergence of high-priced stocks such as Google, where
trading a round-lot requires an investment of $50,000 or more,
has resulted in odd-lots constituting a significant fraction of
trades for a subset of important stocks in the market,” wrote
O’Hara, Yao and Ye in their  paper  titled “What’s Not There: The
Odd-Lot Bias in TAQ Data.”  Odd-lot executions represented 22 percent of trades in
December 2009, compared with 14 percent in January 2008, the
paper said. The official data for  Google Inc. (GOOG)  omitted 34 percent
of trades. Apple was missing 19.3 percent and Amazon.com Inc. 22
percent, while the tally for some companies excluded two-thirds
of transactions, the paper said.  Proprietary Feeds  “It is definitely time for odd lots to be on the tape,”
O’Hara said in an e-mail. “These are invisible to those
watching the consolidated tape, but not to those getting
 proprietary data  feeds from exchanges. This gives the appearance
of a two-tiered market and feeds concerns that the market is not
fair.”  Exchanges are allowed to provide more information on their
 proprietary data  feeds than is publicly available.  Trades in multiples of 10 shares were the most likely among
odd lots, with 50 shares the most prevalent, the paper found.
The next most common size was 1 or 99 shares. Dividing a round
lot into multiple trades may be the result of firms seeking to
avoid reporting requirements and may come from those with more
knowledge about “future price movements,” the paper said.  “Traders (or algorithms) appear to be splitting trades
into odd-lot pieces, motivated perhaps by such trades’ absence
from the consolidated tape,” the researchers wrote in the
paper. “We also find that odd-lots trades are more likely to be
from high-frequency traders, evidence suggestive of the new
patterns of trading in the market.”  Consolidated Tape  Creating the consolidated tape, an official record of price
and volume data for all transactions, was among the first steps
the Securities and Exchange Commission took in the 1970s to
build a national market by linking trading on NYSE and regional
U.S. exchanges. Once prices from these venue were published on a
single data feed, they could be seen by everyone, enabling
investors to compare the transactions they received to other
trades that had just occurred, regulators said.  The  Consolidated Tape Association  Plan that disseminates
trading data for stocks listed on U.S. exchanges went into
effect in 1974. Four years later the SEC approved the
Consolidated Quotation Plan, which collects the best bid and
offer prices and the number of available shares at those levels
from each exchange, for the same securities in the CTA Plan.  A similar program for quotes and trades in securities
listed on Nasdaq, called the  Nasdaq UTP Plan , was approved as a
pilot in 1990 and became operational in 1993. The U.S. options
industry has its own data plan to distribute quote and execution
information to investors.  Halts, Restrictions  The exchanges and Finra, which oversee the market-data
programs, plan to vote in November about whether to include
trades of fewer than 100 shares in the transaction reports, said
Clark, a member of the operating committee for the CTA who is
also on a subcommittee examining odd lots for that group and the
Nasdaq UTP Plan.  One issue they’re considering is whether executions should
be deemed “last-sale eligible,” which could allow odd lots to
trigger trading halts or short-sale restrictions, he said. The
group may also delay the inclusion of bids and offers of fewer
than 100 shares in the quotation data, he said.  “We’re still trying to work on the implications of
including odd lots,” Clark said. “It’s about the nuts and
bolts of what that could mean.”  The prospect of odd-lot trades being reported comes as  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  plans to merge the CTA and CQ plans to streamline their
administration. The data feeds for trading and quotations will
remain separate, Clark said.  Information Content  U.S. equity trading across exchanges and other venues fell
to 6.81 billion shares a day in the first half of this year from
10.83 billion in the first six months of 2008,  data  compiled by
Bloomberg show. Adding odd lots won’t increase revenue for
brokers suffering from lower average daily equities volume or
affect the price of stocks -- it will only affect the official
count.  Brokers, investment managers and trading firms may glean
more information about buy and sell demand from new data added
to the transaction stream. In addition to activity from high-
frequency firms identified in the 2011 paper, more transactions
from individual investors, especially in higher-priced stocks,
will be reported for the first time.  Odd-lot trades accounted for 77 percent of  TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. (AMTD) ’s executions in Apple in April, the company told
the SEC in a  letter  that month. They were 69 percent of the
total number of transactions in the  SPDR S&P 500 ETF Trust (SPY) , 84
percent in Google, 84 percent in Priceline.com Inc., 69 percent
in Amazon and 72 percent in  IBM (IBM) , it said.  Equity Volume  “The firm finds that as security prices increase, retail
investors continue to dedicate the same dollar amount to invest
in the security,” the Omaha, Nebraska-based  retail broker  told
the SEC. “As security prices increase beyond $50, TD Ameritrade
has observed that there is a commensurate increase in the amount
of odd-lot trades the firm handles.”  The SEC said in a January 2010 paper that odd lots may
account for about 4 percent of U.S. equities volume. The agency
asked market participants if the transactions should be reported
publicly and whether traders may be buying or selling in smaller
sizes to “circumvent the trade disclosure or other regulatory
requirements,” according to the paper.  Credit Suisse Group AG , NYSE Euronext, exchange operator
Bats Global Markets Inc. and automated trading firms including
Allston Trading LLC and Hudson River Trading LLC said odd lots
should be included in the public transaction data. The
importance of smaller trades has increased as the average
execution size has decreased, Bats told the SEC.  “Historically, when average trade sizes were 800 shares or
more, the informational value associated with an odd-lot
transaction was minimal,” Bats wrote in a 2010  letter . “As
average trade sizes have fallen below 200 shares, the
informational value associated with odd-lot transactions has
risen and begins to approximate the informational value found in
round and mixed-lot transactions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 