-- Oil Rises as Jobs Report Stokes Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-09-07T19:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/oil-fluctuates-on-u-s-jobs-stimulus-speculation.html
Oil advanced for a third day as U.S.
payrolls increased less than expected in August, raising
speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will boost stimulus
measures to spur economic growth.  Prices gained 0.9 percent after the Labor Department
reported the economy added 96,000 workers last month, less than
the 130,000 median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
The Federal Open Market Committee will meet Sept. 12-13 to
discuss monetary policy.  “More than anything I think attention is focused on the
employment numbers this morning, which were really bad,” said
 Addison Armstrong , director of market research at Tradition
Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “They made it easier for the
FOMC to make some moves for stimulus when they meet next week.
We may see some volatile days before they make their
announcement Thursday.”  Crude for October delivery rose 89 cents to $96.42 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement in a
week. Futures dropped 5 cents this week and are down 2.4 percent
this year. They have advanced 24 percent from the year’s low of
$77.69 a barrel on June 28.  Brent oil for October settlement increased 76 cents, or 0.8
percent, to end the session at $114.25 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The lower-than-forecast employment growth will move the Fed
closer to more quantitative easing, Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said. The Fed implemented two rounds
of large-scale asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion from
December 2008 to June 2011.  Policy makers will give “strong hints” or provide
“positive action” at the FOMC meeting, Gross, who runs the
world’s biggest bond fund, said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  Bernanke Comments  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Aug. 31 that he
wouldn’t rule out more stimulus to boost the economy. The
 European Central Bank  agreed yesterday to an unlimited bond-
purchase program.  “The odds of more stimulus measures are going up after the
jobs report,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the
Price Futures Group in Chicago. “The Fed may join the ECB in
more bond buying to try to stimulate the economy, and that’s
kind of pushing oil higher.”  Last month’s payroll growth followed a revised 141,000 rise
in July that was smaller than initially estimated, the Labor
Department figures said.  “That’s about as bad as you can get,” said  Michael Lynch ,
president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
Massachusetts. “But people are thinking that the stimulus
measures will get stronger.”  Unemployment Slips  The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell to 8.1 percent in
August as the share of the working-age population in the  labor
force  slumped to the lowest level since 1981. The participation
rate decreased to 63.5 percent from 63.7 percent.  Oil also advanced as the euro gained as much as 1.4 percent
against the dollar on the Fed stimulus speculation. The currency
rose to $1.2806, the highest level since May. A stronger euro
and weaker dollar boost oil’s appeal as an investment
alternative.  Crude fell as much as 1.5 percent earlier on speculation
that the White House is considering tapping the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve.  A release may be more likely should Brent reach $120 a
barrel, said a person with direct knowledge of a meeting
yesterday that Obama administration officials held with outside
crude-market experts. The administration hasn’t made a decision
on whether to release oil from the reserve, and there was no
discussion of any deadline for a decision, the person said.  Release Odds  “The odds of an SPR release are increasing,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
Pennsylvania. “The administration really has to do something to
deflect what they are seeing now.”  The Obama administration is continuing to look at all its
options to make sure high oil prices don’t crimp the global
economy,  Jay Carney , the White House press secretary, said Aug.
30 in response to a question at a briefing.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 493,147
contracts as of 3:43 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 710,388
contracts yesterday, 32 percent above the three-month average
and the highest level since Aug. 15. Open interest was 1.56
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net 
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  