-- Hong Kong to Head to Poll as Leung Contends With Protests
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-09-07T04:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/hong-kong-to-head-to-poll-as-leader-leung-contends-with-protests.html
Hong Kong voters will choose a new
legislature in two days, as discontent at  China ’s influence
fuels protests against an influx of mainland citizens and
changes to the education curriculum.  The election may boost so-called pro-democracy parties that
don’t back Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying, said  Michael DeGolyer , a professor at the Hong Kong Baptist University, whose
Hong Kong Transition Project has tracked changes in the city
since its return to Chinese sovereignty in 1997. Dissatisfaction
at the way the government deals with China has risen to the
highest level in eight years, according to a survey by the
project.  Strengthened opposition from lawmakers would complicate
Leung’s task as he seeks to balance Hong Kong’s economic
reliance on China with the demands of local residents. Leung,
battling record-low poll ratings, scrapped his trip to this
week’s Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit and yesterday
announced plans for locals-only home sales after investment from
mainland Chinese helped drive a surge in property prices.  “The China effect is an inevitable and global
phenomenon,” said Raymond Yeung, senior economist for  Greater
China  at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “Economic
integration with China is unavoidable. Yet, it is essential for
Hong Kong to preserve its international status and uniqueness.”  Voters will choose lawmakers in the expanded 70-member
Legislative Council on Sept. 9. Pro-democracy parties, led by
the Democratic Party and Civic Party, seek to retain or expand
their one-third presence on the council, which gives them the
power to veto bills that require a two-thirds majority.  Balancing Act  “He has to work with these folks, and it’s going to be
extremely difficult to do so,” DeGolyer said.  Home prices  have soared by about 88 percent since the start
of 2009, driven by record low-interest rates and purchases by
mainland buyers. Chinese mothers taking up hospital beds, and an
influx of tourists have also spurred dissatisfaction among Hong
Kong residents.  Students have camped out at government headquarters for
more than a week demanding it drop plans for national education
classes that they said paint an overly favorable picture of
Communist Party rule in China.  A plan by the Chinese government, to take effect this
month, to ease visa procedures for mainland visitors to Hong
Kong has faced criticism from  James Tien , head of the tourism
board, on concerns the city won’t be able to handle the influx.  Leung Responds  Leung yesterday announced plans for the sale of two land
sites on which homes will be built only for locals. He followed
up on that today by saying the city will delay the loosening of
visa approval for some tourists coming from the neighboring
Chinese Shenzhen city. The chief executive announced a measure
to stop Chinese mothers from giving birth in the city earlier in
the year.  Leung is the last chief executive to be chosen by a 1,193
member-committee comprising of billionaires, lawmakers and
representatives from industry groups.  He was backed by the  Democratic Alliance  for the Betterment
and Progress of Hong Kong, also known as the DAB, which with 10
seats is the largest party in the Legislative Council. He also
has support from the The Federation of Trade Unions, which has
four. Other political parties in the council include the Liberal
Party and Economic Synergy, which are advocates for businesses.  Pro-democracy parties have backed the students’ call to
stop the national education classes, while the DAB supported the
introduction of the curriculum.  The turnout may surpass the previous election in 2008 with
10 more seats been introduced, according to a survey of 13,457
people by the University of Hong Kong Public Opinion Programme
conducted from Aug. 1 to Sept. 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  