-- Orioles Hit Season-High Six Homers to Tie Yankees in AL East
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-07T04:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/orioles-hit-season-high-six-homers-to-tie-yankees-in-al-east.html
Mark Reynolds  hit two of the
Baltimore Orioles’ season-high six home runs to beat the Yankees
10-6 and tie New York for the lead in the American League East
division.  Adam Jones , Reynolds and Chris Davis hit homers as the
Orioles scored four runs in the bottom of the eighth after the
Yankees scored five in the top of the inning to rally from a 6-1
deficit and tie the score.  “Everyone in the dugout knew they were going to make a run
at us,” Orioles manager Buck Showalter said in a televised news
conference.  The Orioles and Yankees also are in a tie atop the AL wild-
card standings with 77-60 records, a half-game ahead of the
Oakland Athletics (76-60). The top two teams in the wild-card
standings at the end of the regular season reach the playoffs,
as well as the three division leaders in each league.  The Orioles opened a 6-1 lead through the sixth inning.
Jones had a run-scoring single and Matt Wieters added a three-
run homer in the first inning. Robert Andino then hit a home run
in the fourth and Reynolds recorded his first home run of the
game in the sixth.  The Yankees, whose sole run through seven innings came off
 Curtis Granderson ’s single in the fourth, scored five runs off
Orioles relievers Randy Wolf and Pedro Strop in the eighth.  Nine-Run Inning  Alex Rodriguez  had a run-scoring double, Granderson added
an RBI single,  Eric Chavez  scored on a bases-loaded walk and
 Ichiro Suzuki  hit a single that sent home Granderson and  Russell Martin .  In the bottom of the eighth, Jones hit his 28th home run of
the season to break the tie. Reynolds then got his eighth home
run in seven games to also score Wieters before Davis completed
the scoring.  In the ninth,  Nick Swisher  grounded out to first,  Robinson Cano  singled to right, Rodriguez lined out to third and Chavez
struck out to end the game.  The teams meet again at Oriole Park in Camden Yards tonight
for the second game of their four-game series. Baltimore then
has three home games against the Tampa Bay Rays, who are two
games behind the leaders in the AL East, while the Yankees face
three games in Boston against the  Red Sox .  Jason Hammel, who was reinstated last night from the 15-day
disabled list, allowed one run on six hits and struck out six in
five innings for the Orioles. Darren O’Day (7-1) got the win.  “Getting Ham back there was a big relief,” Jones said.  Also last night, the AL-leading Texas Rangers (82-55)
defeated the Kansas City Royals 5-4 in 10 innings, while the
Washington Nationals advanced to a Major League Baseball-best
85-52 record with a 9-2 victory against the Chicago Cubs.  The Atlanta Braves (78-60) won 1-0 against the Colorado
Rockies.  The Braves and St. Louis Cardinals (74-63) lead in the
race for the two NL wild-card spots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  