-- Orix Targets Investment Banking Assets With New Brazil Unit
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2012-09-07T04:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/orix-targets-investment-banking-assets-with-new-brazil-unit.html
Orix Corp., the Japanese financing
company targeting about $4 billion in private-equity investments
by 2015, opened a Brazil unit this month to seek acquisitions in
 South America .  Orix Brazil Investments & Holdings Ltd., based in  Sao
Paulo , may spend as much as 50 billion yen ($634 million) taking
majority stakes in local investment banks and asset managers,
said Takaaki Nitanai, a Tokyo-based company spokesman. The unit
will be managed by Orix USA Corp.  The three-person operation marks Orix’s re-entry into
Brazil since exiting a leasing venture with  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4)  12
years ago and follows  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ’s agreement to
buy Dusseldorf, Germany-based WestLB’s Brazilian unit in June.
Tokyo-based Orix is seeking assets being sold by European
financial firms as they streamline overseas operations to
weather the continent’s debt crisis, Nitanai said.  Shares (8591)  of Orix rose 1.8 percent to 7,380 yen at 12:54 p.m.
in Tokyo and have jumped 16 percent this year. The  Nikkei 225
Stock Average (NKY)  has risen 4.7 percent in 2012.  Orix, whose operations include insurance, aircraft and auto
leasing, and the Buffaloes baseball team, has been examining a
return to the South American market and is focusing acquisitions
on fee businesses, according to its annual report for the year
ended March 2011.  Deals Drop  Brazilian mergers and acquisitions announced this year
total about $46 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Takeovers in the country totaled $120 billion last
year, a 27 percent decrease from 2010. The country’s equity and
equity-linked offerings total $5.2 billion this year and ended
2011 with a tally of $12.1 billion, the data show.  Orix has made more than 50 merger and acquisition deals
globally over the past five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It earned 23 percent of its revenue from overseas
operations in the year ended March.  President Makoto Inoue said in an interview last month that
his company is in talks to spend about $400 million to buy a
stake in a Dubai-based life insurer from a European bank. He
also said Orix may invest in aircraft leasing, asset managers
and other insurers in the  Middle East  as European firms sell
assets to rebuild capital and retrench to their home markets.  The company plans to sell about $3 billion in  bonds  this
year to accelerate an overseas expansion plan hampered by
 Europe ’s debt crisis and Japan’s record earthquake in 2011.  Mizuho and bigger Japanese rivals Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. and  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  are also
looking to gain market share abroad from European competitors.
The country’s lenders are looking to higher-yielding markets to
make up for declining profitability on domestic loans.  WestLB, now known as Portigon AG, agreed in June to sell
its Brazil unit to Mizuho, without disclosing terms of the
transaction. The acquisition gives the Tokyo-based lender access
to growing demand for infrastructure-related financing in
Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in  Tokyo  at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  