-- Toronto Film Festival Emerges as Test Market for Oscars
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   E r i c   L a m
-- 2012-09-07T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/toronto-film-festival-emerges-as-test-market-for-oscars.html
Sony Pictures’ Tom Bernard has come
to the Toronto International Film Festival every year since
1978. The event’s growing reputation as a barometer of Oscar
potential has more film executives falling for its charms.  The 11-day event, which kicked off last night, had until
recently lacked the cachet of Cannes, Venice and Berlin. The
commercial and critical success of Oscar winners “ Slumdog
Millionaire ” and “The King’s Speech” following screenings in
Toronto has changed that.  The festival attracts audiences more aligned with
mainstream tastes, making screenings there a better gauge of a
film’s commercial and critical chances. “Slumdog Millionaire,”
about an Indian boy’s rise from poverty to game-show riches, won
the biggest award in Toronto in 2008 before collecting eight
Oscars. Two years later, “The King’s Speech” did the same at
Tiff, as it’s known locally, and garnered four Academy Awards.  “You’ve got regular people that have shown up as if they’d
gone to the multiplex,” said Bernard, co-president of  Sony
Pictures Classics. (6758)  “You can feel the room, you can see if they
get the jokes or the drama.”  Tiff is also a buying opportunity for movies that will play
well in 2013, according to Ben Cotner, senior vice-president of
acquisitions at Open Road Films, a distributor owned by the two
largest U.S. cinema operators.  The festival’s range contributes to its appeal as well,
offering thrillers alongside art-house fare, movie executives
said.  Seller’s Market  “It’s a something-for-everyone festival, which is why
buyers are drawn to it,” Cotner said. “The timing is really
great for anybody looking for movies for the first two quarters
of next year since there haven’t been any major festivals since
Cannes.”  The festival’s alignment with Oscar season helps. Toronto
begins as summer blockbusters end their theatrical runs and
Hollywood gears up to release award hopefuls. In 2004, Academy
Awards organizers moved their annual ceremony a month earlier to
February, boosting Toronto’s appeal as a showcase.  “That move made Tiff the launching pad for the Oscar
race,” Bernard said in a telephone interview.  This year’s is Toronto’s biggest yet, with 372 films from
72 countries, including 289 feature-length pictures, organizers
said. The 10 biggest Oscar contenders, including Paul Thomas Anderson’s “The Master,” loosely based on Scientology founder
L. Ron Hubbard, will be screened, according to Film.com, an
industry website.  Spies, Children  Pictures expected to garner attention this year also
include “Argo,” the story of a CIA operatives caught in  Iran 
in 1979, and “Midnight’s Children,” the adaptation of Salman Rushdie’s 1980 novel of lives upended by  India ’s 1947 partition.  Open Road will use the festival to premiere “End of
Watch,” a gritty story of two Los Angeles cops featuring  Jake Gyllenhaal  and Michael Pena. The event kicked off last night
with FilmDistrict’s “Looper,” a sci-fi thriller filmed
partially in  China , with  Bruce Willis  and Joseph Gordon-Levitt.  “By tomorrow I’m moving on to full acquisition mode,”
FilmDistrict CEO Peter Schlessel said in an interview yesterday.
Schlessel has been coming to Toronto for 15 years and said he’s
always amazed by the locals’ film awareness.  The festival’s success coincides with a resurgence in TV
and film production in Toronto and Ontario. The value of
projects shot in the province jumped 31 percent to a record
C$1.26 billion ($1.28 billion) in 2011, helped by productions
including the remake of sci-fi action movie “Total Recall,”
according to the Ontario Media Development Corp.  Local Economy  Tiff generated about  $170 million  for the local economy in
2009, up from $67 million in 2003, according to a government-
backed study. That should hit $200 million this year.  This year, the festival has attracted 4,006 industry
delegates, a 5 percent increase from last year, according to the
organizers. In 2011, more than 40 films were purchased for
distribution.  All those dealmakers create a boon for restaurants, bars
and hotels clustered around the TIFF Bell Lightbox, a five-story
complex that includes five screens, a gallery and event space.
The facility, finished in 2010, is now the festival’s
centerpiece.  “We’re already serving a third more guests than normal,
and once the festival starts we’re going to go from 300 a night
to 600,” said Jason Bangerter, executive chef at the Lightbox’s
two restaurants.  Hotels in Toronto also enjoy a jump in business during the
festival, particularly those closest to the Lightbox.  “We’ve seen a huge spike in our numbers compared with when
the festival was centered closer to Yorkville,” said Reetu
Gupta, who oversees sales and marketing at the Hilton Garden
Inn, around the corner from the Lightbox.  “We have a lot more
travelers coming in now just to visit the Lightbox. It’s become
an attraction in itself people want to come see.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  