-- Mortgage-Bond Spreads Fall to Five-Year Low on Bets Fed Will Buy
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-09-07T21:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/mortgage-bond-spreads-fall-to-five-year-low-on-bets-fed-will-buy.html
A measure of relative yields on
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgage securities that guide home-
loan rates tumbled to the lowest in five years after a report
showed U.S. payrolls rose less than projected in August, raising
the odds of a new round of bond buying by the  Federal Reserve .  A Bloomberg index of yields on Fannie Mae-guaranteed
mortgage bonds trading closest to face value fell about 7 basis
points to 114 basis points, or 1.14 percentage points, higher
than an average of five- and 10-year Treasury rates as of 5 p.m.
in  New York . That’s the narrowest spread since April 2007.  Lower-than-forecast U.S. employment growth will move the
U.S. central bank closer to more so-called quantitative easing,
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said in a radio
interview today on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and
Ken Prewitt. The Fed will probably extend its pledge to keep
borrowing rates close to zero into 2015, and follow up with
purchases of more Treasuries and mortgage securities, he said.  “If there was any lingering doubt within the Fed about
announcing a new round of QE next week, this should surely push
them over the edge,”  Tom Porcelli , chief U.S. economist at RBC
Capital Markets LLC in New York, said in a note to clients.  The economy added 96,000 workers last month following a
revised 141,000 gain in July that was smaller than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed today in  Washington .
The median estimate of 92 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a gain of 130,000.  ‘Strong Hints’  Fed policy makers will give “strong hints” or provide
“positive action” at next week’s rate-setting meeting, Pimco’s
Gross said after the jobs report. The mortgage holdings of his
$270 billion Total Return Fund, the world’s biggest bond fund,
rose to 51 percent last month, from 25 percent in July 2011,
according to data on the company’s website.  The central bank will probably buy $500 billion to $600
billion of government-backed mortgage bonds over 12 to 15 months
under the program, according to Credit Suisse Group AG analysts
led by Mahesh Swaminathan.  The analysts saw the purchases as almost inevitable after
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in an Aug. 31 speech signaled the Fed’s
readiness to acquire more debt to bolster the economy. The
analysts wrote in a report yesterday that “a decision of this
magnitude is unlikely to be shaped by one last minute datapoint,
barring an extraordinarily strong number.”  Fed Purchases  Bernanke’s speech to central bankers in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , did little to increase the already high probability
that mortgage-bond investors assigned to the potential move.
Trading patterns through earlier this week indicated the
perceived odds rising only “a few percentage points to about 70
percent,” compared with almost 80 percent in July, Credit
Suisse said.  The Fed may already be the biggest buyer in the market,
after starting in October to purchase new agency mortgage
securities with the proceeds from its past purchases of housing-
related debt. Those included $1.25 trillion of home-loan notes
from January 2009  through  March 2010.  The central bank has bought $298 billion of securities
under the reinvestment program, which it announced with the
first round of its so-called Operation Twist for Treasuries. The
central bank owns a total of about $850 billion of agency
mortgage bonds, which are guaranteed by government-supported
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac or U.S.-backed Ginnie Mae.  Agency home-loan securities with the lowest coupons that
are trading closest to face value, which guide consumer rates
because lenders typically package new debt into them, “have
limited sponsorship from the investor community other than the
Fed,” according to Tae Park, a  money manager  in New York who
oversees mortgage-bond investments at Societe Generale SA.  ‘Benefiting’ MBS  “The weak job report provides a further justification for
the Fed to embark on another set of MBS purchases, thus
benefiting” those securities the most, he said in an e-mail.  Bond gains amid  Europe ’s debt crisis, concern that the  U.S.
economy  is slowing and speculation that the Fed will expand its
purchases drove down the  average rate  on a typical 30-year
mortgage to a record low 3.49 percent in the week ended July 26,
according to  Freddie Mac  data.  Last week, borrowing costs continued declines after a
subsequent increase to as high as 3.66 percent, falling back to
3.55 percent. The swings in  mortgage rates  have been smaller
than seen in bond yields as lenders prevent borrowing costs from
declining too far to avoid being overwhelmed by a jump in
refinancing, or minimize increases to maintain demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  