-- Hovnanian Escapes Abyss as JPMorgan Says Buy
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n   a n d   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2012-09-07T16:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/hovnanian-escapes-abyss-as-jpmorgan-says-buy-corporate-finance.html
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) , the
homebuilder that faced a 91 percent chance of default last
October as seen in derivatives trades, is winning over
bondholders by reducing debt as housing prices improve.  The average market value of the family-run company’s bonds
surged 30 percent to $1.2 billion as of Sept. 5 from $910
million on Sept. 30, 2011, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. The builder’s probability of default in five
years dropped to 43.5 percent yesterday.  Hovnanian’s tactic of buying land even as housing prices
were falling is paying off as the market rebounds and the
company has the raw materials to meet demand. A recovery in the
home sector has bolstered the balance sheets of those builders
that survived the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression as  Red Bank , New Jersey-based Hovnanian reported a
surprise  profit  yesterday with a 36 percent gain in revenue.  “If you weathered that storm and still come out whole,
who’s to say you can’t continue doing so,” Jody Lurie, a
corporate credit analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview. “Provided that it
doesn’t get as bad as things were in ’09 they should be fine. I
think that’s the mentality about them.”  The company’s $121 million of 8.625 percent bonds due
January 2017 traded at 85 cents on the dollar Sept. 5 to yield
13.2 percent, up from 33 cents Oct. 3, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. Hovnanian had $1.55 billion in long-term debt as of
July 31, down 44 percent from $2.74 billion in 2008, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Improving Fundamentals’  “We’re pleased that the market recognized the improving
fundamentals that we’ve been posting,”  Larry Sorsby , chief
financial officer, said in a telephone interview. “It’s clear
to us that the industry is in a period of recovery. We’ve
bounced off the bottom.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co., which had an “underweight” rating
on the company’s bonds as recently as July, upgraded New
Jersey’s largest homebuilder to “overweight” yesterday.
Improvement in housing, the strength in the high-yield  bond
market  and the potential for refinancing have improved the
company’s outlook, analysts Susan Berliner and Richard DeGaetani
wrote in a research note to clients. An “overweight”
recommendation means the position is expected to outperform
benchmarks during the next three months.  Refinancing Debt  “We’ve been saying all year that they’ve showed a
willingness to cut the costs when they need to,” Martha Ucko,
an analyst at CreditSights Inc., said in a telephone interview.
“It was a risky world for a while but the housing market is
looking like it has stabilized with another big leg down in
volumes unlikely and they’re getting pretty close to
profitability.”  The company may refinance its $797 million of 10.625
percent first-lien notes due October 2016, which become callable
for the first time on Oct. 15 at 108 cents on the dollar, said
 Michael Kim , a fixed-income analyst at CRT Capital Group LLC in
Stamford,  Connecticut . The securities traded at 107 cents on the
dollar today, the highest since May 2011.  “Refinancing the first lien notes with lower coupon debt
would benefit liquidity and provide further support to the rest
of the  capital structure , including the unsecured bonds,” Kim
said in a telephone interview. “There’s certainly more optimism
around their survival in having the liquidity on hand to get
through the next couple of years.”  Default Risk  Credit-default swaps tied to Hovnanian debt have declined
to 16.6 percent upfront, according to data provider CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. That’s in addition
to 5 percent a year, meaning it would cost $1.66 million
initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of
Hovnanian’s debt.  Those prices imply that the market perceives a 43.5 percent
chance the company will default within five years, based on an
expectation that investors would recover 14.5 percent of face
value of the company’s bonds if it failed to meet its
obligations, the data show. That’s down from 60.5 percent at the
end of 2011 when it implied 85 percent odds.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Blackstone Deal  Investors are accepting the lowest relative yields for debt
of the nation’s biggest homebuilders since 2007. So-called
spreads at 4.74 percentage points on debt of borrowers from  D.R.
Horton Inc. (DHI) , the largest U.S. homebuilder by volume, to  Toll
Brothers Inc. (TOL)  have tightened six times faster than the overall
high-yield market since February, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index show.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s GSO Capital Partners LP agreed to
acquire a group of housing development sites from Hovnanian in
July with plans to sell them back to the homebuilder under a
$125 million deal, causing the company’s bonds to surge 4.3
cents on the day.  The GSO agreement is a “sizeable liquidity source” that
will “enable Hovnanian to buy enough land to grow the
company,” JPMorgan wrote in a July report.  Net income for the three months ended July 31 was $34.7
million, or 25 cents a share, compared with a net loss of $50.9
million, of 47 cents, a year earlier, Hovnanian said yesterday
in a statement. The average  estimate  of 10 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey was for a loss of 14 cents a share.  Housing Prices  Ara Hovnanian is president and chief executive officer of
the company his father founded in 1959. Hovnanian,  New Jersey ’s
largest builder, has operations in 18 states including,  Arizona ,
California,  Delaware , Florida,  Georgia , Illinois,  Kentucky  and
 Maryland .  Homebuilders, along with lenders, real-estate firms and
investment banks that bundled mortgages made to the least
creditworthy borrowers into securities, contributed to a run-up
in housing prices that peaked in July 2006. Prices plummeted 35
percent from then until the market low in February, according to
the Standard & Poor’s/Case-Shiller  index .  Home prices  in 20 U.S. cities climbed in June for the first
time since a tax credit boosted sales in 2010. The S&P/Case-
Shiller  index  increased 0.5 percent from June 2011 after falling
0.7 percent in the year to May, a report from the group showed
last month in  New York . The last 12-month increase took place in
September 2010. Nationally, prices jumped last quarter by the
most in more than six years.  Housing Recovery  Purchases of new homes rose more than projected in July to
match a  two-year  high, Commerce Department data showed last
month. Previously-owned house sales rebounded from an eight-
month low, the National Association of Realtors reported.  A U.S. housing recovery will take longer than investors
anticipate, said  Vicki Bryan , an analyst at research firm Gimme
Credit LLC in New York. Many investors are too optimistic and
have pushed up prices on the bonds.  “I’m encouraged that the housing market is improving and
gaining traction but they’ve already priced in years of
improvement,” Bryan said in a telephone interview. “Not all
the homebuilders are equipped to sustain themselves for years
and years of slow sales, for the years it takes for the housing
market to recover.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net 
David Holley in New York at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  