-- PDVSA May Pay Debt to Oil Service Providers With Bonds
-- B y   N a t h a n   C r o o k s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-09-07T00:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/pdvsa-may-pay-debt-to-oil-service-providers-with-bonds-1-.html
Petroleos de Venezuela SA  is
studying different options to pay down debts to oil service
providers including paying the companies with bonds, Vice
President Eulogio Del Pino said.  “We’re evaluating and discussing different options and
that will be announced when it’s time,” Del Pino told reporters
in Puerto La Cruz today when asked about paying down the debt
with bonds. “The situation is totally manageable.”  PDVSA, as the state oil company is known, said that debt to
service suppliers rose to $12.4 billion at the end of 2011 while
total debt surged 40 percent to $34.9 billion. The Caracas-based
company is evaluating different financing options, citing a
$1.76 billion loan from minority partner  Eni SpA (ENI)  as a best case
scenario to raise funds.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  provided a $2 billion loan to PDVSA this year
to boost output at its Petroboscan joint venture by about 20,000
barrels a day.  Debt to service suppliers has risen along with activity in
the oil industry as PDVSA looks to develop heavy  oil fields  in
the Orinoco belt in the hopes of boosting production to 4
million barrels a day in 2013 from a current 3 million barrels,
Del Pino said.  “I told some of the companies, ‘we’re not going to return
to the activity of two years ago where payments were made within
90 days,’” Del Pino said. “They want to continue to grow with
us. We’re going to help them and there are different mechanisms
we’re discussing.”  Investment Plan  PDVSA expects to invest as much as $130 billion through
2019 to raise total production in the country to 6 million
barrels a day. Del Pino said the company will need to finance
part of that investment and is in position to take on more debt
given the size of its reserves which OPEC recognized as the
largest in the world with 297 billion barrels of proven
reserves.  After issuing a record of more than $10 billion of bonds
last year, PDVSA sold $3 billion of securities due in 2035 in a
private placement with the central bank in May.  “We’re going to take on debt at the pace that our growth
plan requires and that is manageable,” he said. “It doesn’t
make sense to have it all come out of your own pocket.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Crooks in Caracas at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  