-- Peru Bond Yields Fall to Record Low on Fed Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-09-07T20:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/peru-bond-yields-fall-to-record-low-on-fed-stimulus-speculation.html
Peruvian bonds rose, pushing yields
to a record low, as speculation the  Federal Reserve  will expand
monetary easing boosted the outlook for global growth and fueled
demand for higher-yielding assets.  The yield on the nation’s 7.84 percent sol-denominated bond
due August 2020 fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 4.47 percent, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
yield fell five basis points this week. The price rose 0.11
centimo today to 122.18 centimos per sol.  Treasuries and gold rose after U.S. payrolls increased less
than projected in August, spurring bets Fed policy makers will
expand record monetary stimulus next week.  Investors are looking for “opportunities in countries that
have a solid fiscal position and are still growing,” said  Hugo Perea , the chief economist at BBVA Banco Continental in Lima.
“Peru is a country that offers a higher yield and risk is
relatively low.”  The sol was little changed at 2.6080 per  U.S. dollar , from
2.6090 yesterday, according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.
The currency appreciated 0.1 percent this week.  The central bank bought $60 million in the  spot market 
today to stem gains in the sol. The monetary authority said on
its website it paid an average 2.6090 per dollar.  Policy makers kept the overnight rate at 4.25 percent
yesterday, citing a weaker global economy, a sustainable pace of
domestic growth and tolerable levels of inflation.  Inflation is likely to ease next month as prices of some
fruits and vegetables fall on higher farm output, central bank
research director Adrian Armas told reporters on a conference
call today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  