-- Peugeot Dropped From CAC 40 Index as Its Value Dwindles
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-09-07T10:48:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/peugeot-dropped-from-cac-40-index-as-its-value-dwindles.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-largest carmaker, will be removed from France’s leading
stock index after the company’s shares declined more than 60
percent in the last 12 months.  The French manufacturer, which trails only Volkswagen AG
among the continent’s carmakers, will be replaced by  Solvay SA (SOLB) 
in the CAC 40 index on Sept. 24, NYSE Euronext said late
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. Jean-Baptiste Mounier, a
spokesman for Peugeot, declined to comment.  “Peugeot has been the weakest weight in the index for
several quarters now,” Christophe Wakim, a quantitative  analyst 
at Exane BNP Paribas, said in an interview with Bloomberg TV
before the decision. “It’s just the reflection that Peugeot,
unfortunately, has destroyed value for its shareholders.”  Peugeot  shares  have been trading near a 26-year low in
recent months as  Europe ’s economy struggles. The automotive
division has been burning through 200 million euros ($250
million) in cash a month for the last year, Chief Executive
Officer Philippe Varin said in July as the company reported an
819 million-euro first-half net loss.  The stock advanced as much as 5.1 percent today and was up
4.8 percent at 6.33 euros at 12:46 a.m. in Paris, while the CAC
40 rose 1.1 percent. Solvay, a maker of chemicals and plastics,
gained as much as 4.7 percent in Brussels and was up 4.4 percent
at 92.80 euros.  The index change reflects European carmakers’ woes as they
struggle to cut costs amid declining vehicle sales. Peugeot has
been a member of the  CAC 40 (CAC)  since the creation of the index in
1987. Its weighting has dropped by about three quarters since
then to about 0.22 percent, making it the smallest member.
 Renault SA (RNO) , France’s second-biggest carmaker, represents about
1.13 percent of the gauge.  Board Rules  The decision to remove Peugeot came after a meeting of NYSE
Euronext’s seven-member scientific board, led by Roland Bellegarde, executive vice president for European listings and
cash trading at the transatlantic stock exchange. Reviews take
place every quarter.  The board is guided by the number of shares available,
known as free float, as well as market capitalization and
revenue trends, NYSE Euronext said in a separate statement. The
board picks “the most representative” stocks, it said.  The last criteria is the “most sensitive” one, as Peugeot
employs about 100,000 people in  France , Florent Couvreur, an
analyst at CM-CIC Securities, said by phone. “Its shares are
indeed very low, but their price could double quickly if
macroeconomic conditions improved.”  Share Decline  Stocks that are deleted from the CAC 40 usually
underperform the index over the year following their exit,
according to Exane BNP Paribas. The average decline is about 15
percent, analysts at the brokerage said in a note.  “This decision can be both negative and positive” for
Peugeot, CM-CIC Securities said in a note sent to clients today.
“Negative, because on the short term this could lead to the
disinvestment by some index-backed investment funds. Positive,
because the stock will be less under the spotlight and thus less
subject to short-selling.”  Peugeot shares have traded in Paris since 1925. Solvay
shares started being listed in Paris on Jan. 23. Its admission
by  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in Paris followed its acquisition of Rhodia SA
for $6 billion last year. Brussels remains its reference market,
and 70 percent of its shares are available to be traded,
according to Euronext.  “Constituents of the CAC 40 index don’t necessarily need
to have Paris as the reference market,” Caroline Tourrier, a
spokeswoman for NYSE Euronext in Paris, said by phone. “Solvay
now employs about 7,000 people in France, which makes it a fully
representative company in France.”  Continental AG, Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker,
returned to  Germany ’s benchmark DAX index after a four-year
absence in a sign of its recovery from debt woes that encouraged
a takeover bid from Schaeffler AG.  Among several changes in the gauge of Germany’s 30 biggest
listed companies, MAN SE was removed after  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
increased its stake in the truckmaker to more than 75 percent,
Deutsche Boerse AG, the Frankfurt-based exchange operator that
controls the index, said in a statement on Sept. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  