-- Philippines May Raise Inflation Outlook, Signaling Rates on Hold
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-09-07T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/philippines-may-raise-inflation-outlook-signaling-rates-on-hold.html
Philippine central bank Deputy
Governor Diwa Guinigundo said policy makers will probably raise
 inflation  forecasts for 2012 and 2013, signaling the bank may
pause after three interest-rate cuts this year.  “ Monetary policy  remains appropriate at this time,”
Guinigundo said in an interview in his office in Manila
yesterday. “You now face significant issues with respect to
commodity price increases. On the geopolitical side, there was
renewed tension in the  Middle East , driving concern on possible
tightening of supplies.”  The  European Central Bank  approved unlimited debt purchases
on Sept. 6 to resolve the region’s crisis and prevent a break-up
of the euro, a move that may ease pressure on global policy
makers to keep reducing  interest rates .  Bangko Sentral ng
Pilipinas  cut its benchmark rate a third time this year to a
record low of 3.75 percent in July, joining policy makers from
South Korea to  China  in shielding domestic economies.  “We have expected inflation to pick up in the Philippines
as domestic demand has remained quite high,” said  Trinh Nguyen ,
a Hong Kong-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “It’s
important to be vigilant. The central bank will wait to see how
prices play out and interest rates will remain on hold for the
rest of the year.”  The peso climbed to a seven-week high yesterday, rising 0.5
percent to 41.67 per dollar, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. It
has gained more than 5 percent this year, the best performer
among  Asia ’s 11-most traded currencies.  Investment Pledges  President  Benigno Aquino  is seeking to boost growth to as
much as 7 percent in 2013. He has increased spending, awarded
infrastructure contracts, and won investment pledges from
Glencore International Plc, the world’s biggest publicly traded
commodities supplier, and Gazasia Ltd., a London-based
alternative fuel company, this year.  “Monetary policy has ensured positive credit conditions
and sufficient liquidity to sustain economic activity,”
Guinigundo said. “The policy rate remains well-calibrated to
provide adequate insurance against continued softness of global
economic activity.”  Asian policy makers are weighing more stimulus against the
need to guard against inflation, with economists in a Bloomberg
News survey predicting  South Korea  will cut its benchmark rate
next week.  Indonesia  and the Philippines will probably hold its
key rate at a record-low on Sept. 13, according to separate
surveys. Thailand and Malaysia kept borrowing costs unchanged
this week.  Less Insurance  The economy will probably expand close to 6 percent this
year, the deputy governor said. Growth may moderate in the third
quarter, the result of monsoon rains that flooded the capital
and hurt agriculture, before recovering in the fourth quarter,
he said.  “Benign” inflation makes it “very difficult” for borrowing
costs to be increased, Guinigundo said.  “If you increase interest rates, you will be reducing your
insurance against possible tail risk events in  Europe  and in the
U.S.,” he said. “While you may have higher than trend actual
growth performance, you do not want to preempt an untimely
reduction or moderation in economic activity in the presence of
all these global risks.”  Inflation accelerated to a seven-month high in August, with
consumer prices rising 3.8 percent from a year earlier. Price
gains will meet the central bank’s target of 3 percent to 5
percent this year and next, Guinigundo said.  Bangko Sentral forecast in July that inflation will average
3.1 percent this year, and 3.2 percent in 2013. Growth in
remittances from Filipinos abroad will meet the central bank’s
forecast of 5 percent in 2012, Guinigundo said.  The $225 billion economy expanded 5.9 percent last quarter,
exceeding the 5.5 percent median estimate of economists. Growth
last year was 3.9 percent and it was 7.6 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  