-- Politicians Who Deny Climate Change Cannot Be Pro-Business
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i n s t o n
-- 2012-09-07T15:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/politicians-who-deny-climate-change-cannot-be-pro-business.html
     It finally seems to be dawning on many Americans that
there's something to this climate change thing.
The historic drought has been hard to ignore. While belief in
a long-term trend because it's hot out right now is a bit
ridiculous, it's a start.  You can see a shift in how the media covers weather. The
statement "because of climate change..." is often stated
clearly without caveats such as, "what some scientists think
may be a warming planet." You see it in the UN calling for
action to help the hungry cope with rising food prices
"in an age of increasing population, demand and climate change."  And you see it in the growing number of mega-corporations
— including America's
Alcoa, Coca-Cola, Cisco, HP, J&J, Nike, and P&G — signing on
to the "2 Degree Challenge Communiqué," a call for the world's
governments to take strong action to slow greenhouse gas
emissions.  Climate change is basically accepted as fact the world
over. But you wouldn't know it watching our political
conventions (or at least one of them). So while the world
seems to be waking up to a fundamental, existential threat to
our species (and not to "the planet," which will be fine with
or without us), the US policy debate remains mostly
deaf, dumb, and blind.  Climate change has become a political "third rail,"
harder to talk about than changing Social Security or
Medicare. We didn't hear any mention of it at the GOP
convention, except as a punchline, and we didn't hear much at
the DNC convention...except for one quick, but
important, remark from President Obama. Former President
Clinton mentioned energy efficiency and Vice President Biden
said the words "clean energy" once. But then President
Obama, after duly noting the chance to create more natural gas
jobs, spoke about building wind turbines and reducing
dependence on foreign oil. Finally, he stepped firmly on the
third rail: "Climate change is not a hoax. More droughts and
floods and wildfires are not a joke; they are a threat to our
children's future."  This is great, but let's not get too excited. One line
does not a policy make.  Still, Obama's admission that climate change is real (a
low bar for showing leadership these days) is light years from
Governor Romney's dismissive attitude. His convention speech
mocked President Obama for his earlier promise to "begin to
slow the rise of the oceans." Romney offered instead to "help
you and your family" — as if the health and state of our
entire planet
has nothing to do with the health of our families.  Here's what makes the general silence on climate and the
mocking from the self-identified pro-business party so absurd:
tackling climate change is the smartest thing we can do for
both our public health and our private sector. Reducing carbon
emissions from our power plants, cars, and factories cleans
the air and saves a lot of money. At the macro level, the
burning of coal alone costs the U.S.
about $350 billion per year in health (asthma, heart
attacks, and so on) and pollution costs. At the micro
level, from companies down to households, the opportunities to
get lean and save money are vast.  But more strategically, tackling carbon is an immense
economic opportunity. Here's billionaire and entrepreneur
Richard Branson on the upside potential:  "I've described increasing levels of greenhouse
gases in the atmosphere as one of the greatest threats to the
ongoing prosperity and sustainability of life on the planet.
The good news is that creating businesses that will power our
growth, and reduce our carbon output while protecting
resources, is also the greatest wealth-generating opportunity
of our generation. [There is no] choice between growth and
reducing our carbon output."  This quest will drive innovation and create millions of
jobs for some lucky companies and countries. Is this
multi-trillion-dollar opportunity something we really want to
miss out on? The other major economies are not sitting this
one out. Germany is quickly moving its electric grid to
renewables. China is
committing hundreds of billions of dollars to energy
efficiency and much more to the clean economy in general.  But let's say you don't buy the argument that fighting
climate change keeps us competitive globally, saves trillions
of dollars, and generates new wealth. Then how about the
overwhelming national security rationale? Using less oil, for
example, reduces funding to petro-dictators around the world.
The former head of the CIA, James Woolsey, puts is very
bluntly: "Your gas money funds terrorism."  On this score the difference between the parties is
stark. The DNC's platform includes the words "climate change"
at least 18 times and lists it as an "Emerging Threat" along
with cybersecurity, biological weapons, and transnational
crime. While "emerging" may not be the word I'd choose, it's
leaps and bounds beyond the GOP' s party platform, which
mentions climate change just once...and again, only to mock
it. Their platform complains that the Obama administration has
elevated "climate change" (with the sarcastic quotation marks)
to the level of a severe threat to our security.  But let's be clear: it's not the Democrats or even
President Obama specifically that declared climate change a
national security threat. That would be the Pentagon in
its Quadrennial Defense Review —two years ago.  A strong plan to tackle climate change through government
policy, business innovation, and citizen action is not just
something that's not optional; it's preferable. Moving away
from carbon to a cleaner economy makes us healthier, more
profitable, and more secure.  My work is not political — I try to help companies create
business value from sustainability and green thinking, so I
normally avoid these kinds of discussions. But the discrepancy
in party positions on this most critical issue has become too
extreme to ignore.  There's blame on both sides, but let's not pretend the
two parties neglect climate change equally. Yes, it's a shame
that most Democrats will not stand up and proudly stand behind
many of the positions in their own platform. But the GOP's
denial of climate science, and all the risks and opportunities
it presents, is surreal.  Their views and policies on climate won't help our
businesses deal with, and profit from, the largest market
shift we've ever seen. And they won't help prepare our country
for the hard realities of life in the 21st century.  Winston is the co-author of the best-seller Green to Gold
and the author of Green Recovery. He advises some of the
world’s biggest companies on environmental strategy. Follow
him on Twitter at @AndrewWinston. 