-- Politics as Usual Won’t Return U.S. to Full Employment
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-09-07T17:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/politics-as-usual-won-t-return-u-s-to-full-employment.html
The latest  U.S. jobs report  should
send a message to both presidential candidates: The economy is
growing too slowly to get millions of unemployed back to work,
and the government can and should do something about it.  The Labor Department reported today that nonfarm payrolls
increased by a seasonally adjusted 96,000 in August, far less
than what the economy needs. Even with monthly jobs growth of
200,000,  it would take nearly 10 years  to get back to full
employment. The one seemingly positive number in the report, a
decline in the  unemployment rate  to 8.1 percent from 8.3
percent, was the result of a shrinking labor force, not vigorous
growth in employment. If not for jobless workers giving up the
search for work, the  unemployment rate  would have gone up.  Knowledge of the poor jobs report might have tempered
President  Barack Obama ’s enthusiasm last night at the Democratic
National Convention. His  speech  was disappointing, but it’s not
the tone of one speech that matters. The real disappointment is
that neither Obama nor  Mitt Romney , his Republican challenger,
has had anything substantive to say in this campaign about
bringing unemployment down faster.  The Obama administration has a plan, the  American Jobs Act ,
which we think has mostly good ideas for further short-term
stimulus, but the Democrats aren’t actually pitching it.
Romney’s proposals -- concentrating on lower taxes, smaller
government and lighter regulation -- are directed to the longer-
term vitality of the economy, not to the need to support the
recovery right now.  Fiscal Cliff  What could they say, or actually do? First, they should
agree that the approaching “fiscal cliff” must be dealt with
immediately. This brutal and unwarranted tightening of fiscal
policy, scheduled to start at the beginning of next year, was
written into law when efforts to reach a deal on spending cuts
and tax increases failed. It was intended to force a compromise,
not to become policy. The presidential candidates have the
country’s attention now. They can use it to demand that Congress
act.  Second, they -- and particularly Romney -- can ease the way
for the  Federal Reserve  to provide more monetary stimulus to the
economy. The jobs report underscores the need for a new phase of
quantitative easing, in which the Fed buys bonds to lower long-
term interest rates. Romney’s party, though, has drawn the Fed
into election-year politics by calling for stricter audits of
the central bank, and Romney has let speculation mount that he
wouldn’t reappoint Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  (a Republican, by
the way) when his second term expires. This tacit pressure on
the bank to stand pat as the recovery stutters is wrong and
should cease.  Longer-term remedies for slow growth and the stagnant labor
market inevitably divide the parties and are properly the
subject of the election fight. What’s odd is how little of
substance either campaign has had to say on the subject, beyond
the usual ideological cliches.  Serious discussion of unemployment has been off-limits for
months. It’s as though the presidential candidates want to talk
about everything except the main and most pressing issue. We
hope the jobs report might change that by finally demanding
their attention, though we won’t be holding our breath.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 