-- Portugal Raises Workers’ Social Security Charge to Fight Deficit
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-09-07T23:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/portugal-raises-social-security-charge-paid-by-workers-correct-.html
Portugal plans to raise the social
security rate paid by workers while curbing the charge on
companies as the government tries to narrow its budget deficit
and fight surging unemployment.  “The national financial emergency the country plunged into
in 2011 has not ended yet,” Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  said last night in a televised speech. The social
security rate paid by public and private-sector employees will
increase by 7 percentage points to 18 percent next year, while
the rate companies pay will drop to 18 percent to encourage
hiring, he said.  Passos Coelho is battling rising joblessness and a
deepening recession as he cuts spending and raises taxes to meet
the terms of a 78 billion-euro ($100 billion) aid plan from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . As the
country’s borrowing costs surged, Portugal in April 2011
followed Greece and Ireland in requesting a bailout.  The  Finance Ministry  on July 6 said it would study measures
for the 2013  budget  to make up for the impact of a
Constitutional Court decision that blocked cuts to state
workers’ pay in 2013 and 2014. The court allowed the government
to withhold the summer and Christmas salary payments to state
workers this year, with projected savings of 2 billion euros,
more than 1 percent of gross domestic product.  To accommodate the court’s decision, Passos Coelho said
last night that only one of those salary payments to state
workers will be cut in 2013. The government still plans to cut
both Christmas and summer salary payments for pensioners.  Increased Risks  Portugal targets a budget deficit of 4.5 percent of GDP for
this year and 3 percent for 2013. The IMF on July 17 said the
2012  budget deficit  goal remains within reach, “although risks
to its attainment have clearly increased in recent months.” It
said the target could be adjusted.  Tax revenue has been lower than the government forecast
this year and the adjustment needed to reach this year’s deficit
target is more difficult, an official at the Finance Ministry
who asked not to be identified said on Aug. 23. Passos Coelho
last night didn’t speak on new measures for 2012.  Economic growth  has averaged less than 1 percent a year for
the past decade, placing Portugal among  Europe ’s weakest
performers. The government predicts the economy will shrink 3
percent this year before expanding 0.2 percent in 2013, and
forecasts the  unemployment rate  will rise to 15.9 percent in
2013 from 15.5 percent this year.  ‘Hit Consumers’  The measures “will again strongly hit consumers and
families, which are already at the limit of their capacity to
support more drastic reductions in their disposable income,”
the Portuguese Association of Distribution Companies said in an
e-mailed statement after Passos Coelho spoke.  Work on the fifth quarterly review of Portugal’s aid
program is being completed, Passos Coelho said. Officials from
the IMF, European Commission and  European Central Bank  started
the review on Aug. 28, focusing on topics including the 2012 and
2013 budget plans, as well as the planned return to bond markets
in 2013.  Portugal plans to issue medium-term notes with maturities
of one to five years that are designed for specific creditors,
the IMF said on July 17.  Portugal  is “sounding out” the market
as it prepares to resume sales of medium-term notes, Joao Moreira Rato, chairman of the country’s debt agency, said in an
interview in July.  Yield Falls  Portugal’s 10-year government bond  yield  dropped to 8.09
percent yesterday, an 18-month low, after ECB President Mario
Draghi Sept. 6 announced a bond-purchase program. Bond purchases
may be considered for euro-area countries currently under
bailout programs, such as Greece, Portugal and Ireland, when
they regain bond-market access, Draghi said.  “The most recent developments of ECB policy make our
adjustment process easier and bring closer our aim of returning
to financing in normal market conditions,” Passos Coelho said.
“But it is a serious error to think that they replace the
effort of reforming our economy and consolidating our public
accounts. Those are our tasks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  