-- Primaries Decide Statehouses as Arizona Weighs Top-2 Plan
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-09-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/primaries-decide-statehouses-as-arizona-weighs-top-2-plan.html
Only about a quarter of registered
voters in Arizona participated in last week’s partisan primary
elections and, with two months to go until the general, a third
of the statehouse is already set.  The selection of lawmakers in the primary is one of the
reasons Arizona policies tend to skew “extreme” on issues such
as gun rights and immigration, and why things have to change,
former Phoenix Mayor  Paul Johnson  said. He’s leading a campaign
to make Arizona the third state since 2008 to open primaries to
all voters and candidates, and send the two with the most votes,
regardless of party, to the general election.  “The people who are winning only have to appeal to a very
narrow base,” Johnson, 53, said in a telephone interview,
spitting out percentages of turnout and registration that he
says are far too low. “There is no doubt the system has evolved
into something our founders didn’t plan.”  The proposed change -- which would apply to all local,
state and federal races except for president -- will be on the
November ballot. It follows  California , which tested its top-two
primary system for the first time in June, and Washington state,
where a similar process has been in place since 2008.  Many states, including Arizona, have sought to change the
electoral process through measures ranging from public financing
for campaigns and term limits for lawmakers, to overhauls of
redistricting. The move to scrap partisan primaries, a more
pronounced shift in how elections are conducted, comes as
hundreds of statehouse races nationwide are uncontested and
there is little or no competitiveness in many districts,
including for the U.S. House of Representatives.  Not Alone  Arizona is certainly not alone in a lack of competition. In
 Massachusetts , which held its primaries yesterday, more than
half of state lawmakers are unlikely to face an opponent in
either the primary or the general election, said Brian McNiff, a
spokesman for the Secretary of State.  Nationwide, about one-third of all statehouse seats are
uncontested in the general election and even more go without
primary challenges, said Rob Richie, executive director of
FairVote, a Takoma Park, Maryland-based nonprofit.  California’s new top-two primary -- supported by a
coalition that included then-Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , a
Republican, and former San Francisco Mayor Willie Brown, a
Democrat who was speaker of the Assembly for 15 years -- was
passed by lawmakers in 2009 and approved by voters a year later.  Moderate Stance  The change is meant to encourage candidates to take a more
moderate stance to appeal to a broader audience, instead of just
the party base,  since voters of any affiliation can support
them in the primary election. In districts that skew toward a
single party, as many do, two Republicans or two Democrats can
end up facing off.  That’s the case for incumbent U.S. Representative Pete Stark, a California Democrat who has served in Congress since
1973. After the top-two primary in June, he is facing a
challenge from another Democrat, Dublin City Councilmember Eric Swalwell, in a district that leans strongly Democratic.  “In a general election against a Republican, he would have
coasted to victory,”  Jack Pitney , a politics professor at
 Claremont McKenna College  in Claremont, California, said in a
telephone interview. “But in a top-two system, he’s facing a
very tough challenge from a Democrat and he may very well be
defeated.”  Pitney and others say it’s too soon to tell if California’s
system will help ease partisan gridlock or result in more
centrists in the statehouse or Congress.  Party Line?  “The benefit to the voter is that everybody gets to
participate in the primary,” Pitney said. “We’ll see what the
winners actually do in the Legislature and the Congress. Will
they be more moderate, or will they vote the party line?”  Richie, whose group FairVote supports a shift to
proportional instead of winner-take-all elections, said results
in states with similar systems don’t indicate that top-two will
improve competition in many races or drive voter turnout higher.  Vote-splitting can lead to representation that doesn’t
reflect the majority of voters: In one Democratic-leaning
congressional district in California with a large Latino
population, two white Republicans will compete in the general
election after the Democratic vote was split among four
candidates in the primary, he said.  Third Parties  Another drawback is that the system can shut third parties
out of the general election because it narrows the choice to two
candidates -- often from the major parties, Pitney said.  “This system largely puts them out of business,” Pitney
said.  Johnson in  Arizona  calls this concern a red herring. Third
parties don’t win in general elections now, even if they’re on
the ballot, and they would have a chance in the primary along
with other candidates, he said.  Johnson, an independent who was a Democrat when he was
mayor of Phoenix and ran for governor in the 1990s, said
candidates of all parties would have to appeal to a broad
segment of voters under the top-two system.  In Arizona today, Republicans dominate and the voices of
moderates are “squashed out” in the primary, he said.  “You make sure you know how to capture the base -- which
usually means the most extreme voter,” Johnson said.
“Compromise is not a bad word to the general public, but it is
a bad word to the voters who make up the extreme voters on both
sides.”  Unaffiliated Voters  Under Arizona law, independents can choose to cast ballots
in either the Democratic or Republican primaries. About a third
of the state’s registered voters are unaffiliated with a major
political party.  Bill Montgomery, the Republican elected county attorney for
Maricopa County who’s a spokesman for top-two opponents, said
the system shouldn’t be changed to influence public policy.
Election outcomes are up to voters, he said; if they don’t like
who wins, they should vote.  “I’m sick and tired of hearing how great moderate
candidates are,” Montgomery said. “Sometimes voters need
candidates who take principled stands so that they have a
choice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  