-- Prince Harry Starts Deployment With British Army in Afghanistan
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-09-07T10:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/prince-harry-starts-deployment-with-british-army-in-afghanistan.html
Prince Harry, the third-in-line to
the British throne, arrived in  Afghanistan  to start a tour of
duty with the U.K. army, just two weeks after being embroiled in
a scandal over photographs of him naked in a Las Vegas hotel.  Captain Wales, as the grandson of  Queen Elizabeth II  is
known in the military, will be flying Apache helicopters out of
Camp Bastion, in Helmand Province, the Ministry of Defense in
London said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Captain Wales has deployed along with the rest of the
squadron as part of a long-planned and scheduled deployment to
provide support to ISAF and Afghan forces operating in
Helmand,” Lieutenant Colonel Tom de la Rue, the deputy
commander of the British forces’ Joint Aviation Group, said in
the statement. “It is a demanding job for my soldiers and all
of them, including Captain Wales, are now focusing on the job in
hand.”  Harry, the second son of Prince Charles and the late
 Princess Diana , made front-page headlines last month after
photographs of him naked with friends at a Las Vegas hotel were
published on the  TMZ.com  gossip website. His office played down
the significance of the pictures, saying that he was on a
private vacation. Harry was pictured wearing only a medallion
and a wristband, with a naked woman in each shot.  The prince is a member of 3 Regiment Army Air Corps, part
of 16 Air Assault Brigade, and served with British forces in
Afghanistan in 2008, making him the first royal to fight in a
war zone in more than 25 years. His last deployment ended early
after media reports compromised his safety.  “As with all operational deployments, Captain Wales’s
deployment has been long planned and the threat to him and
others around him thoroughly assessed,” the defense ministry
said. “Any risk posed by Captain Wales’s deployment, based on
capability, opportunity and intent of the insurgency, has been,
and will continue to be, assessed and has informed the decision
to deploy him.”  “You train for war, it’s as simple as that,” Harry said
in an ABC television  interview  in June 2010. “If we’re at war,
then you want to be with your brothers in arms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in  London  at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  