-- Princeton’s Blinder Urges Opening Spigot for Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-09-07T15:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/princeton-s-blinder-urges-opening-spigot-for-economy.html
Weak economic growth and a slowing
labor market in the U.S. underscore the need for more fiscal and
monetary stimulus, said  Alan Blinder , former vice chairman of
the  Federal Reserve .  “I’m definitely in favor of opening the spigot more,”
Blinder, a Princeton University economist, said today in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt. “At this point I’m willing to support almost anything
that would give the economy a little more oomph.”  Payrolls in the U.S. rose less than projected in August and
the unemployment rate declined as more Americans left the labor
force, a government report showed today. Treasuries and gold
rose and the dollar weakened on bets the data increase the
likelihood Fed officials will announce new plans to spur the
recovery when they meet next week.  Policy makers at the central bank have made it clear they
are considering extending the period over which they’ll keep
their target  interest rate  low and that they may purchase more
assets, including mortgage-backed securities, to further reduce
long-term borrowing costs, Blinder said.  Since January, the Fed has said economic conditions would
likely warrant keeping the benchmark interest rate
“exceptionally low” through at least late 2014. The Fed has
also made two rounds of large-scale asset purchases totaling
$2.3 trillion. The Federal Open Market Committee will release a
statement on monetary policy on Sept. 13 after a two-day
meeting.  Borrowing Costs  Buying mortgage-backed securities probably wouldn’t be a
“super-powerful weapon,” Blinder said. The number of mortgages
worth more than the homes they secure blunt the Fed’s ability to
spur housing, he said.  While the federal  budget deficit , which was $1.3 trillion
last year, is an issue, Blinder said he would support a short-
term government program focused on job creation. Such a plan
could entail between $400 billion and $500 in spending coupled
with 10 times as much deficit reduction over a decade.  “When you have interest rates as low as they are and the
economy as weak as it is, it’s clear that not only can we afford
to spend more in the short term, making it up in the long term,
but that we should,” he said.  Policy proposals by Republicans, including presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , won’t boost the expansion, Blinder said.
The 66-year-old Princeton professor advised Democratic
presidential nominee  John Kerry  during the 2004 election
campaign.  “On the Romney camp, on the fiscal side, it’s mostly
delusion,” Blinder said. “They’re telling the story that
shrinking the government, less  government spending , is the route
to salvation. Now, Europe’s trying that with pretty bad results.
We tried it back in the Hoover days with pretty bad results.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net 
Tom Keene in  New York  at 
 tkeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  