-- Protest Not Policy in India Parliament as Coal Fuels Logjam
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-09-07T12:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/protest-not-policy-in-india-parliament-as-coal-fuels-logjam-1-.html
India ’s  parliament  session ended
today with deadlock between the government and opposition over
coal contracts unresolved and Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
legislative agenda in tatters.  The monthlong sitting passed just four of 30 bills lined up
for approval by the Congress party-led administration, making it
the least productive in 17 months. Protests over the mining
awards wiped out the last 13 days of the session, heightening
political polarization that has taken its toll on an economy
growing at near its slowest pace in three years.  “The government has completely stopped working,” said
Laveesh Bhandari, director of Indicus Analytics Pvt. Ltd., an
economics research firm in New Delhi. “The two most powerful
people in Congress -- Sonia and  Rahul Gandhi  -- have refused to
take things head on,” exacerbating the sense of drift, he said.  The main opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  is demanding
Singh resign and the cancellation of coal block permits after
the nation’s chief auditor said a decision not to auction the
assets may have lost the government $33 billion. Federal
investigators have charged five companies with providing false
information to obtain licenses in an echo of an allegedly
corrupt 2008 mobile-phone scandal that still plagues Singh, 79.  The government described the auditor’s coal findings as
“flawed,” saying it adopted a transparent process that aimed
to attract investment and keep the prices of electricity low.  Graft probes, revolts by coalition allies unwilling to back
plans to lift curbs on foreign investment in retail, insurance
and pensions and opposition protests in parliament have plunged
the government into almost two years of firefighting.  Plunging Popularity  An opinion poll last month by  Nielsen  and the India Today
magazine said Singh’s alliance may lose nearly one third of its
parliamentary seats if an election were held now and would most
likely be ousted from power.  While Congress has 18 months to go before it must face the
electorate in a nationwide ballot, state polls in Gujarat and
 Himachal Pradesh  are due by December. Eight provincial elections
will be held next year.  Singh and Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram are
under pressure to boost the economy as elevated  inflation  saps
growth and political gridlock deters investment, with a weak
monsoon and a slump in the rupee further dimming the outlook.  Inflation, stoked by food costs, has exceeded 7 percent for
most of 2012. The  Reserve Bank of India  in July raised its
inflation forecast for the year ending March 31 to 7 percent
from 6.5 percent, and reduced its GDP growth estimate to 6.5
percent from 7.3 percent.  ‘Hyenas Gather’  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have cited risks such
as the fiscal deficit in warning they may strip  Asia ’s third-
largest economy of its investment-grade  credit rating .  Failure to resolve the impasse in parliament has sidelined
proposals to change rules on how companies, including
steelmakers such as  South Korea ’s Posco and  ArcelorMittal (MT) ,
acquire land for projects. Investment plans have been stalled by
farmers’ protests demanding greater compensation.  “When the buffalo is wounded the hyenas gather and that is
exactly what is happening,” said Prem Shankar Jha, an
independent political analyst in  New Delhi . “The BJP is trying
to force this government, thinking if it has an early election
they will capitalize on it.”  Only 30 percent of the parliament session that started Aug.
8 was spent on debates or legislation, according to the New
Delhi-based  PRS Legislative Research  think-tank.  Mockery  Singh said the BJP’s disruption was making a mockery of
India’s parliamentary democracy. “Those who prevent parliament
from functioning disable the voice of the people,” Singh said
in a statement in New Delhi today. “I urge all right minded
Indians to stand up and unite against the forces of anarchy and
disruption.”  Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, a leader of the BJP, said the party
would take its protests against what he called an arrogant and
corrupt administration to the streets.  Congress President  Sonia Gandhi  has accused its principal
rival of “blackmail” and holding parliament to ransom. “Let
us stand up and fight, fight with a sense of purpose and fight
aggressively,” she told party lawmakers Aug. 28.  Renewed speculation that Gandhi’s son, Rahul, may finally
accept Singh’s repeated invitations to join the government have
prompted expectations of a cabinet reshuffle.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  