-- Qantas Cut to Lowest Investment Grade by S&P on Losses
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-09-07T07:56:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/qantas-cut-to-lowest-investment-grade-by-s-p-after-emirat.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , the Australian
carrier that yesterday struck a 10-year alliance with Emirates
to turn around losses on international routes, had its  credit
rating  cut to the lowest investment grade by  Standard & Poor’s .  The airline’s  debt grade  was lowered by one level to BBB-
with a stable outlook, according to an e-mailed statement from
the ratings company.  “Qantas’s business risk profile has weakened because of
the structural pressures affecting the airline’s international
business,” Melbourne-based analyst May Zhong said in the S&P
statement. “Persistent pressures have eroded Qantas’s market
share and inflicted losses on the airline’s international
operations in the past few years.”  The carrier yesterday announced a revenue and cost-sharing
tie-up with Emirates, the world’s largest airline by
international passenger traffic. Sydney-based Qantas lost A$450
million ($465 million) on international routes in the year to
June 30, dragging the company to its first  annual loss  in at
least 17 years.  It may take some time for the benefits of the Emirates
partnership to be seen, and Qantas still faces increased
competition on Asian routes from carriers with lower cost bases,
S&P said in its statement.  ‘Underlying Strengths’  Qantas has “significant underlying strengths,” the
airline said in a statement responding to the downgrade,
pointing to its free  cash flow  and dominant share of the
Australian market.  “It’s a very tough industry,” said Brendon Cooper, head
of credit strategy at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in  Singapore .
“You’ve got private-sector airlines competing against ones with
other means of support.”  Still, the deal with the Gulf carrier is a “positive” for
Qantas and may allow it to conserve more cash, Cooper said.
Emirates is owned by the government of Dubai.  Credit-default swaps on Qantas closed at 400 basis points
yesterday, up from a 2012 low of 270 basis points reached in
March, according to data provider CMA. That’s the highest level
among the 25 companies in  Australia ’s benchmark bond risk gauge.  Qantas has A$3.2 billion of bonds and loans maturing by
2021, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It holds a Baa3
 grade  from Moody’s Investors Service, also the lowest investment
grade ranking. The carrier is one of just two airlines
worldwide, with Southwest Airlines Co., to be judged investment
grade by two separate rating companies.  The airline’s shares rose 5 percent to A$1.26 in Sydney
trading today before the downgrade was announced, paring this
year’s loss to 14 percent.  Spending Cuts  Qantas has cut its forecast of  capital spending  by pushing
out orders of Airbus SAS A380s and canceling a delayed order of
35  Boeing Co. (BA)  787 Dreamliners. Capital spending was A$2.13
billion in the year through June, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, and the company forecasts A$1.9 billion to be spent
next year and again in 2014.  Qantas said Aug. 24 it would get $433 million from Boeing,
including more than $300 million in compensation payments, as a
result of delays.  Alan Joyce, Qantas’s chief executive officer, said
yesterday the benefits of the Emirates deal to its European
operations and an ability to expand its Asian network should be
seen positively by rating companies.  “That’s extremely positive news for the rating agencies
and I think they’ll see it in that light,” he told a media
conference in Sydney yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  