-- Goel ‘Substantially’ Aided Rajaratnam Case, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-07T18:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/rajiv-goel-substantially-aided-rajaratnam-prosecution-u-s-says.html
Rajiv Goel “substantially aided”
the insider-trading prosecution of his former Wharton classmate
 Raj Rajaratnam , the government said in court papers as the
former Intel Corp. managing director seeks to avoid prison.  Goel, 54, testified against former Galleon Group LLC co-
founder Rajaratnam last year. He was an “essential”
prosecution witness at the  New York  trial, providing
“significant and timely cooperation,” Assistant U.S. Attorney
 Reed Brodsky  wrote.  In a separate filing, Goel’s lawyer, David Zornow, asked
for probation for his client, saying his reputation was ruined
as a result of his involvement in the case.  “Goel testified against one of his closest friends who had
provided him with substantial financial assistance over many
years,” Brodsky wrote. “Although Goel did not express it or
complain about it, he had to overcome the emotional aspect of
providing assistance and trial testimony that helped demonstrate
his close friend was guilty of multiple counts of  securities
fraud .”  Goel was arrested with Rajaratnam in October 2009. He
pleaded guilty in February 2010 to conspiracy and securities
fraud. He faces as long as 25 years in prison when he is
sentenced Sept. 12 by U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones.  Goel, who worked at Intel’s treasury group, testified he
told Rajaratnam about Intel’s earnings in 2007 and a $1 billion
transaction in 2008.  College Friends  He told jurors that he and Rajaratnam became friends at the
Wharton School of the  University of Pennsylvania , from which
they graduated in 1983, and grew close over ensuing years. The
families vacationed together, said Goel, a native of Mumbai.  After returning to the U.S. from  India  and winning a job at
Intel in 2000, Goel said, he repeatedly turned to Rajaratnam for
financial assistance. Rajaratnam loaned Goel $100,000 to buy a
home in 2005 and another $500,000 the next year when he needed
support for his ailing father, Goel said.  Goel put the $500,000 in a Swiss bank and used a portion to
remedy a problem in his California home. He testified he didn’t
report the gift to the  Internal Revenue Service .  “Goel was not even close to Rajaratnam’s criminal
league,” and instead “corrupted and manipulated” by the  fund
manager  into committing crimes, Zornow said in his memo to the
court.  First Crime  “This is not intended to minimize or excuse Mr. Goel’s
conduct,” Zornow wrote, “but, it is important to point out
that Goel has no criminal history, and, as the government has
acknowledged “had lived a life free of crime until he started
providing Rajaratnam with inside information.”  Zornow said Goel has already been punished significantly
and has been unable to find work since he lost his job at Intel
after his 2009 arrest. He has also agreed to pay the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission more than $254,000 to settle
a civil suit.  The defense lawyer noted that two other cooperating
witnesses against Rajaratnam,  Anil Kumar  and  Adam Smith , were
also granted probation and not sent to prison.  The case is U.S. v. Goel, 1:10-cr-00090, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 