-- Rand Gains, Set for Best Week Since June, on Stimulus Prospects
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-09-07T14:32:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/rand-gains-set-for-best-week-since-june-on-stimulus-prospects.html
The rand rose to a three-week high,
set for its best weekly gain since June, and yields fell as
speculation central banks will do more to bolster growth fueled
demand for high-yielding assets.  South Africa ’s currency advanced as much as 1.5 percent to
8.1842 per dollar, the strongest since Aug. 15. It traded at
8.2029 by 3:53 p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its gain this week
to 2.3 percent, the most since the five days ending June 29.
Yields on benchmark 6.75 percent bonds due March 2021 dropped
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 6.59 percent.  ECB President Mario Draghi yesterday said policy makers
agreed to an unlimited bond-purchase program. U.S. employers
added fewer jobs in August than forecast, increasing speculation
the  Federal Reserve  will add to monetary stimulus. Demand for
South African bonds, which dropped after 44 people were killed
last month in labor protests at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s platinum mine in
Marikana, is increasing before South Africa’s inclusion next
month in Citigroup’s World Government Bond Index.  “All this news has seen risk assets rally,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at ETM Analytics, wrote
in e-mailed comments. “In the short term, there should be a
continued allocation of capital to riskier bonds.”  Foreign investors  bought  a net 4 billion rand ($490
million) of South African bonds in the first four days of this
week, according to JSE Ltd. data. Foreigners have bought 72
billion rand of the nation’s  bonds this year, more than in any
other year since Bloomberg started compiling the data in 1996.  “Foreign investors have been net buyers of our bonds for
each of the last nine days,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons,
strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in Johannesburg, write in e-
mailed comments. “No wonder the tone of the rand has switched
to positive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  