-- Treasury Five-, Seven-Year Notes Lead Gains Amid Fed Bets
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-09-07T21:18:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/treasuries-gain-as-slowing-job-growth-boosts-speculation-on-fed.html
Treasury notes rose for the first
time in four days as U.S. job growth slowed more than forecast,
fueling bets the  Federal Reserve  will add more stimulus to the
economy through bond purchases as soon as next week.  Five- and seven-year notes led gains as traders speculated
mortgage investors will look to Treasuries as a hedge with the
Fed likely to increase purchases of similar-maturity housing
bonds through so-called quantitative easing. Employers added
96,000 positions in August, versus a revised 141,000 increase in
July. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank stands ready to provide additional support, citing
unemployment as a “grave concern.”  He has also pledged to
keep borrowing costs low into 2014.  “These numbers will give the  Federal Open Market Committee 
and Bernanke the ammunition they need to initiate another QE and
to extend the language into 2015,” said Paul Montaquila, head
of fixed-income trading at Bank of The West in San Ramon,
 California . “Both QE and an extension of the language are
without question on the table for the September meeting. These
are dismal job numbers.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  declined one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.67 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York . It
touched 1.74 percent, the highest level since Aug. 22, before
the jobs data. The price of the 1.625 percent note due in August
2022 rose 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 19/32.
The yield increased 12 basis points this week.  U.S.  five-year  yields dropped three basis points to 0.64
percent, and  seven-year note  yields fell three basis points to
1.09 percent.  Inflation Sensitivity  Thirty-year bond  yields fell as much as seven basis points
to 2.73 percent before trading at 2.83 percent, up three basis
points. Quantitative easing may lead to higher inflation, and
the securities, because of their long maturity, are more
sensitive to inflation than shorter-term Treasuries.  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee will meet
Sept. 12-13. The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of Treasury
and mortgage-related debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of
purchases. It also has kept its  benchmark rate  at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  “QE is coming next week,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at
 Societe Generale  in New York, one of the 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “They’ll be buying mortgages or announcing
some kind of mortgage-buying program. What we’re seeing is
buyers of fives and sevens because the life of a mortgage
averages out to that area.”  Fannie Mae  A measure of relative yields on  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
mortgage securities that guide home-loan rates tumbled to the
lowest in five years. A Bloomberg index of yields on Fannie Mae-
guaranteed mortgage bonds trading closest to face value fell
about six basis points to 114 basis points. It was the narrowest
spread since 2007.  Traders increased bets inflation will rise. The difference
between  yields  on conventional 10-year U.S. notes and comparable
Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities widened to 2.37
percentage points, the most in five months. It represents the
bond market’s expectations for the average rate of inflation
during the life of the debt. The average gap in 2012 is 2.19
percentage points.  Treasuries fell yesterday as demand for refuge weakened
when the  European Central Bank  announced a program to buy euro-
area government bonds to contain the region’s debt crisis. ECB
President  Mario Draghi  announced the unlimited purchase plan to
regain control of  interest rates  in the region.  Political Issue  The U.S.  jobless rate  decreased to 8.1 percent, staying
above 8 percent for a 43rd month. Economists in a Bloomberg News
survey had forecast the report would show the U.S. added 130,000
jobs, versus a previously reported 163,000 in July, and that the
jobless rate remained at 8.3 percent.  The payrolls data came two months before the  U.S.
presidential election . Employment and the economy are central
themes in the campaign, with President  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  each trying to convince voters
they can best energize the expansion and create jobs.  “It’s the No. 1 topic going into the election,” said
 Chris Ahrens , an interest-rate strategist in Stamford,
 Connecticut , at the primary dealer UBS AG. “The sense in the
market is that the central banks are on the move and are trying
to be as supportive to the economic environment as possible. The
bar is low for the Fed to institute another round of asset
purchases.”  ‘Positive Action’  The Fed will give “strong hints” or provide “positive
action” next week,  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest
bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,
California, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. The central bank
will likely ease further through “open ended” purchases of
Treasuries and mortgages, he said.  Treasuries climbed on Aug. 31 as Bernanke, speaking at an
economics conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , said the costs of
“nontraditional policies” to spur the economy appeared
manageable when considered carefully. He said the Fed stands
ready to act if necessary.  “QE is a net negative for Treasuries, if it’s large enough
to work,” said Tom Graff, who manages $3.6 billion of fixed
income at Brown Advisory Inc. in Baltimore. “I don’t want to be
a buyer of Treasuries with QE as an expectation,” though given
the market reaction to today’s data, “that view appears to be a
minority,” he said.  The Fed sold $7.8 billion of Treasuries today maturing from
February 2013 to February 2014 as part of Operation Twist, its
program to swap shorter-term securities in its holdings with
longer-term debt to put downward pressure on borrowing costs.  Treasury Auctions  The Treasury will auction $66 billion in notes and bonds
next week: $32 billion in three-year debt, $21 billion in 10-
year securities and $13 billion in 30-year bonds.  Hedge-fund managers and other large speculators increased
their  net-long  position in 10-year note futures in the week
ending Sept. 4 to the highest level in more than four years,
according to U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Speculative long positions, or bets prices will rise,
outnumbered short positions by 108,685 contracts on the Chicago
Board of Trade, the most since March 2008. Net-long positions
rose by 57,993 contracts, or 114 percent, from a week earlier,
the Washington-based commission said in its Commitments of
Traders report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  