-- Ringgit Advances as ECB Bond-Buying Plan Bolsters Risk Appetite
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-09-07T08:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/ringgit-advances-as-ecb-bond-buying-plan-bolsters-risk-appetite.html
Malaysia’s ringgit climbed,
approaching a one-week high, after the  European Central Bank 
unveiled a bond-buying plan to tackle the region’s debt crisis,
boosting demand for riskier assets.  Policy makers agreed to make unlimited purchases to regain
control of  interest rates  in the euro area and “address severe
distortions in government bond markets,” ECB President  Mario
Draghi  said in Frankfurt yesterday. Domestic demand will support
Malaysia’s economy as the global outlook weakens, the central
bank said in statement yesterday after a policy review which
kept the benchmark rate at 3 percent.  “The ringgit’s strength is mainly due to the ECB’s plan,”
said Choong Yin Pheng, senior manager for fixed income and
economic research at  Hong Leong Bank Bhd. (HLBK)  in  Kuala Lumpur . “It
helps to ease concerns about a break-up of the euro.”  The ringgit gained 0.3 percent today and this week to
3.1081 per dollar as of 4:09 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 30
basis points to a two-week low of 6.6 percent today. It dropped
65 basis points this week.  Exports unexpectedly fell 1.9 percent in July from a year
earlier, after climbing 5.4 percent in June, according to a
Trade Ministry statement today. The median of 22 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a 3.5 percent increase.  Government bonds declined. The yield on the 3.314 percent
notes due October 2017 rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.34 percent, the highest since Aug. 17,
according to Bursa Malaysia. For the week, the rate gained six
basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 