-- Rookie Quarterbacks Start NFL Season Amid Referee Labor Dispute
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-09-07T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/rookie-quarterbacks-start-nfl-season-amid-referee-labor-dispute.html
The National Football League’s
replacement officials aren’t the only ones lacking experience as
the season begins.  Five rookie quarterbacks, the most since at least 1950,
will start their team’s season opener -- the Indianapolis Colts’
 Andrew Luck , the Washington Redskins’ Robert Griffin III, the
Cleveland Browns’  Brandon Weeden , the Miami Dolphins’ Ryan
Tannehill and the Seattle Seahawks’ Russell Wilson. The NFL said
the previous high was three rookie quarterbacks starting season
openers in 1968 and 1969.  Griffin and Luck, both 22, were the top two in Heisman
Trophy voting last season for college football’s best player,
then reversed those positions in this year’s draft. They and the
other rookies are looking to have an effect similar to that of
the Carolina Panthers’ Cam Newton, voted the league’s Offensive
Rookie of the Year last season.  “Newton set the bar pretty high,” Steve Beuerlein, a
former NFL quarterback and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  NFL analyst, said in an
interview. “The guys this year, including both Griffin and Luck,
have looked really good. But they’re going to make mistakes,
every young quarterback does.”  The first full day of play in the most-watched U.S. sports
league is Sept. 9, with 13 games. The season started Sept. 5,
when the  Dallas Cowboys  beat the defending Super Bowl-champion
 New York  Giants 24-17 at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New
Jersey.  Replacement Officials  The NFL’s replacement officials probably will make mistakes
too, if the preseason was any indication.  With the NFL and its officials union unable to reach an
agreement on a new contract, the league has filled the jobs from
below the top level of college football. During the preseason,
the replacements drew criticism from players, coaches and fans
for missed and inaccurate calls and a lack of experience.  “There’s no way there can’t be a significant drop-off,”
said  Eric Mangini , a former New York Jets and Browns coach who’s
now an NFL analyst for ESPN. “You can’t put a bunch of guys in
a place that they haven’t been in with no experience and expect
them to officiate the game like the group of officials we’ve
seen year in and year out.”  Lack of experience is a reason none of the five teams that
are starting rookie quarterbacks are among the 15 with the best
odds to win the NFL championship. Even as Newton set an NFL
rookie record with 4,051 passing yards last season, the Panthers
missed the playoffs with a 6-10 record.  The  New England Patriots  enter the season as 5-1 favorites
to win the  Super Bowl , scheduled for Feb. 3 in New Orleans. The
 Green Bay Packers  are the 6-1 second choice at the Las Vegas
Hotel’s Super Book, followed by the San Francisco 49ers, Houston
Texans and Denver Broncos at 10-1.  Title Longshots  The Dolphins, with Tannehill at quarterback, are tied with
the Minnesota Vikings with the longest Super Bowl odds at 300-1,
meaning a winning $10 bet would return a $3,000 profit. The
Browns have 200-1 odds, the Redskins and Colts are both listed
at 100-1, and the Seahawks are 40-1.  The Giants have 16-1 championship odds. Their opponents
this season combined for a league-best 140-116 record last year.  The Jets, who added  Tim Tebow  in the offseason as the
backup to starting quarterback  Mark Sanchez  after missing the
playoffs with an 8-8 record, are listed at 40-1 to win the Super
Bowl.  Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said he expects Sanchez to lead the
team back to the postseason after reaching the American Football
Conference championship game in his first two seasons.  “As a rookie he was looked at as a weakness on our
football team, and I said there’s going to be a day where he’s
looked at as the strength of our team,” Ryan said at a news
conference. “That day is right now.”  Denver’s Manning  The Broncos released Tebow after adding four-time NFL Most
Valuable Player  Peyton Manning , 36, and have had their odds
lowered from 60-1. Manning, who spent his first 14 seasons with
the Colts, missed the 2011 campaign following neck-fusion
surgery.  “Adjusting to new personnel and a new system, that’s
probably going to be more to deal with than his health,” former
Dolphins quarterback  Dan Marino  said in an interview.  The New Orleans Saints are 20-1 to become the first team to
win the Super Bowl in their home stadium.  The Saints are slated to play this season without coach
Sean Payton and linebacker Jonathan Vilma, who were suspended by
the NFL after the team was accused of running a bounty program
that paid bonuses for hits that hurt opposing players.  Joe Vitt 
will serve as interim coach, although he’s also suspended for
the first six games.  Adrenaline Rush  “They’ll have that initial adrenaline of proving people
wrong, that little chip on their shoulder of what’s been done to
them,” former Pittsburgh Steelers coach Bill Cowher said of the
Saints in an interview. “But as the season goes on, it’s hard
to sustain that adrenaline rush. As they hit that bump in the
road that every team hits, they don’t have that calming force
that has been there in the past in  Sean Payton .”  The Patriots, who have won 10 or more games each of the
past nine years and made the playoffs eight times in that
stretch, have steady leadership in quarterback  Tom Brady  and
coach  Bill Belichick . After losing to the Giants in last
season’s Super Bowl, New England is favored by oddsmakers to win
its first title since the 2004 season.  They’re followed closely by the Packers, who won the
championship after the 2010 season and went 15-1 last year
behind MVP  Aaron Rodgers  before losing to the Giants in their
playoff opener.  “There’s no better place to start than Lambeau Field,”
said Packers coach  Mike McCarthy , whose team hosts the 49ers in
the opener. “We’re all looking forward to it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  