-- Tropical Storm Leslie Regains Speed on Path Past Bermuda
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-09-07T20:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/tropical-storm-leslie-regains-speed-on-path-past-bermuda.html
Tropical Storm Leslie weakened as it
picked up momentum heading north in the Atlantic Ocean on a
track past  Bermuda .  Leslie’s path may take the storm east of Bermuda over the
weekend, the National Hurricane Center said in an  advisory  at 5
p.m. East Coast time. The system was 375 miles (603 kilometers)
south-southeast of Bermuda with winds of 65 miles per hour, down
from 70 mph. It may regain hurricane strength in a day or two,
the agency said.  Leslie, which had been a Category 1 hurricane on the five-
step  Saffir-Simpson scale , weakened today after it stalled and
began churning up colder water from deeper in the ocean. Water
temperatures below the storm have dropped 8 degrees Fahrenheit
(4.4 degrees Celsius) in the past few days,  Jeff Masters , co-
founder of  Weather Underground  in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , said in a
telephone interview.  The storm’s  current track  takes it past Bermuda on Sept. 9,
stirring high surf there and on the U.S. East Coast, and then
toward eastern Newfoundland. It’s forecast to weaken to a
tropical storm again as it reaches the Canadian province.  “For the average person living on Bermuda, this is going
to be a wimp,” Dan Kottlowski, senior meteorologist for
AccuWeather Inc. in  State College , Pennsylvania, said in a
telephone interview.  Newfoundland was hit in 2010 by Hurricane Igor, which
followed a similar path. Winds of 105 mph were recorded with as
much as 9.4 inches of rain washing out roads.  Canada Waits  The Fire and Emergency Services of Newfoundland and
Labrador said it’s monitoring Leslie’s track.  “They should be concerned, they’ve been hit pretty hard by
hurricanes in past,” Masters said. “Fortunately, on the
current forecast trajectory, it looks like the storm will pass
just east of Newfoundland, and the east is the weak side of
storm.”  North Atlantic Refining Ltd. has a 115,000 barrel-a-day
refinery in Come-By-Chance, Newfoundland, 90 miles west of the
provincial capital of  St. John’s .  East of Leslie,  Hurricane Michael , a Category 2 storm,
crept northwest with 105 mph winds, the NHC said. The system may
drop to tropical storm status over colder waters early next
week, the center said. It poses no threat to land in the next
five days.  The Miami-based NHC is also tracking a remnant of Hurricane
Isaac that re-entered the  Gulf of Mexico  and has a 20 percent
chance of becoming a tropical system within two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  