-- Rosneft to Invest $2.2 Billion in Russian Far East This Year
-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2012-09-07T08:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/rosneft-to-invest-2-2-billion-in-russian-far-east-this-year-1-.html
OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s largest oil
producer, plans to invest more than 70 billion rubles ($2.2
billion) this year in Russia’s  Far East  on a refinery upgrade, a
petrochemicals plant and oil exploration.  The planned Komsomolsk refinery upgrade to improve fuel
quality, which includes building a hydrocraker, reformer and
coker by the end of 2015, will cost 108 billion rubles, Rosneft
said today in an e-mailed presentation. It plans annual output
of polymers from a Far Eastern petrochemicals plant at 3.6
million tons a year for 2017  President  Vladimir Putin  has called for fines against
refiners who fail to carry out upgrades and continue to produce
substandard fuels. State-run Rosneft has responded by boosting
spending 23 percent this year, mainly on refining.  The Far East, among Russian regions that suffered from
gasoline shortages last year amid a move to improve fuel
standards, has high demand for gasoline, kerosene and winter
diesel, according to  Alliance Oil Co. (AOIL) , which owns the region’s
other major refinery. Alliance plans to finish upgrades to its
Khabarovsk plant next year, according to the company website.  “The only question is why Rosneft didn’t start this
upgrade four or five years ago,”  Alexander Nazarov , an oil and
gas analyst at OAO Gazprombank, said by e-mail. “Alliance will
be able to enjoy a couple of fat years before Rosneft completes
its upgrades.”  Rosneft laid a ceremonial cornerstone for the construction
of the petrochemicals plant today as Putin meets with leaders of
nations in the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation group in
Vladivostok, Russia, according to the statement.  “Its a very good location for petrochemicals products
distribution,” Nazarov said. “ China , for example, consumes the
lion’s share of rubber exported from Russia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  