-- Trulia Seeks to Raise as Much as $96 Million in IPO
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-09-07T15:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/trulia-seeks-to-raise-as-much-as-96-million-in-ipo.html
Trulia Inc. (TRLA) , an operator of a
residential real estate listings website, plans to raise as much
as $96 million in an initial public offering, aiming to
capitalize on an improving U.S. housing market.  The company and its existing shareholders are offering 6
million shares at $14 to $16 each, according to regulatory
 filing  today. Trulia’s shareholders include  Accel Partners ,
Fayez Sarofim & Co. and  Sequoia Capital , the filing shows.  Home sales have climbed in the U.S. as  mortgage rates  close
to record lows help bolster demand. Trulia, based in San
Francisco, competes with  Zillow Inc. (Z) , which raised $80 million,
including an overallotment option, in 2011. Zillow shares have
more than doubled since their debut.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG are managing
Trulia’s offering, with help from RBC Capital Markets LLC,
Needham & Co. and William Blair & Co., according to the filing.
The company may use the deal’s proceeds to acquire businesses
and other assets and plans to list its shares on the  New York 
Stock Exchange under the symbol TRLA.  Based on the filing, the company and its shareholders are
offering about 23 percent of the shares. At the top end of the
price range, the IPO implies a valuation of $422 million, or
about 8.2 times trailing 12-month sales through June 30. That
compares with a price-to-sales ratio of about 13 times sales for
Zillow.  Trulia’s search engine is used by more than 20 million
people a month to look for homes, according to the filing. The
company makes money through ads on the site and subscriptions.  Purchases of new homes climbed 3.6 percent in July to a
372,000 annual pace, matching a two-year high, figures from the
Commerce Department showed Aug. 23. Sales of previously owned
homes rose from an eight-month low in July, according to the
National Association of Realtors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  