-- Russian Food-Store Tsar Rings Up Billions as Wal-Mart Wavers
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-09-07T19:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/russian-food-store-tsar-rings-up-billions-as-wal-mart-wavers-2-.html
One by one, from the southeastern
corner of the continent, Sergey Galitskiy is beating the biggest
supermarket chains in  Europe .  In February, the Russian retailer he founded near the  Black
Sea ,  OAO Magnit (MGNT) , surged past  Metro AG (MEO)  of Germany in market
value, then overtook Royal Ahold NV of Holland and  Carrefour SA (CA) 
of France two months later to become the region’s No. 2 after
England’s  Tesco Plc. (TSCO)   “Investors have gone crazy!” Galitskiy tweeted in June as
Magnit rallied toward its record $15.8 billion valuation Aug. 6.  From a 400-square-meter shop Galitskiy started in his
native Krasnodar, the former Procter & Gamble Co. cosmetics
distributor has built the country’s biggest network of food
stores -- and its most valuable retailer by far.  Today, the 45-year-old entrepreneur may be facing his
toughest challenge yet as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  prepares a
renewed assault on a market where it has failed to gain a
foothold after at least five years of trying.  Galitskiy’s response to the plans of the world’s largest
retailer: “So what?” he said, gesturing actively over tea.  For four years, as Wal-Mart failed to open a single outlet,
Galitskiy has opened one about every nine hours. He’s on pace to
open No. 6,000 next month and has no intention of slowing down.  “When there’s growth opportunity, the entrepreneur will
take advantage of it,” Galitskiy said at his headquarters in
Krasnodar on Aug. 17 and by e-mail Sept. 4.  Tomatoes, Cucumbers  Magnit’s stock has  advanced  49 percent this year and 325
percent in the past four, more than any other company in
 Russia ’s Micex Index of 30 shares. That has swelled Galitskiy’s
personal fortune to about $6 billion, based on his 38.7 percent
stake in the company, making him the richest person in this
formerly communist country whose wealth isn’t tied to extracting
natural resources.  Magnit increased 3.5 percent at 4,373.80 rubles at the
close of trading in Moscow. The company’s London-listed global
depositary receipts jumped 6.2 percent to $34.23, the highest
level since the stock started trading in April 2008. Five GDRs
equal one share.  His road to billions began in November 1998, when he opened
his first outlet just three months after Russia’s debt default
plunged markets into chaos, paving the way for  Vladimir Putin ’s
rise to power with a pledge to end the oligarchs “as a class.”
Now he runs an empire that spans three time zones, employs
150,000 workers, operates a fleet of 4,100 trucks and can afford
to spend $450 million to grow his own tomatoes and cucumbers, as
well as about $40 million a year on his  soccer club , Krasnodar.  Russia’s Walton  “Galitskiy has done a phenomenal job,” said Mattias Westman, who helps manage about $4 billion including Magnit
shares at  Prosperity Capital , the  investment company  he founded.
“He is extremely focused on detail and has web cameras located
on every construction site to make sure that everything is going
according to plan,” Westman, who served on Magnit’s board from
2006 to 2009, said by phone. “He’s definitely Russia’s answer
to  Sam Walton .”  Walton, who founded Wal-Mart in  Arkansas  in the 1960s, died
in 1992, leaving four heirs with a collective fortune of more
than $110 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires
Index. Galitskiy, the only one of the top 25 Russians on the
Forbes rich list who doesn’t live in Moscow, London or Monaco,
said that while he admires Walton’s savvy he isn’t intimidated
by the company Walton built.  ‘Ghost Story’  “I don’t see anything Wal-Mart can do that other retailers
can’t,” Galitskiy said. “It’s more of a ghost story to scare
the little kids: eek, Wal-Mart is coming. In 1949, a U.S.
general jumped out a window screaming ‘the Russians are coming,’
but nothing happened,” he said. “People, not brands, make the
business.”  Wal-Mart registered its main trademark in Russia in 2001
and opened an office in Moscow in 2008, only to close it down in
2010 after failing to establish a joint venture with oil
producer TNK-BP billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s  X5 Retail Group
NV. (FIVE)  It’s also been outbid for smaller retailers  Lenta , Mosmart
and Kopeyka, according to newspapers Vedomosti and Kommersant.  Wal-Mart hired former X5 Chief Executive Officer Lev Khasis
last year to steer its entry into the country, which Khasis said
on state television in February might take two years. Khasis
declined to comment to Bloomberg on Wal-Mart’s plans for Russia.  At stake is a share of a booming retail food market that by
some estimates overtook Germany last year as Europe’s largest.
Russia’s 143 million people outspent Germany’s 81 million in
dollar terms $313 billion to $274 billion in 2011, according to
data compiled by  Alfa Bank . The market has grown 17 percent on
average in Russia since 2007, 14 times faster than in  Germany ,
Alfa analyst Andrei Nikitin said by phone from Moscow, where the
bank, partly owned by Fridman, is based.  Auchan, Metro  Galitskiy said he hasn’t been impressed either by the
performance of his two biggest foreign competitors -- France’s
Groupe Auchan SA and Metro. The two food chains are third and
fourth in Russia by sales, with $7 billion and $5.4 billion last
year, respectively, according to an X5  presentation . X5 and
Magnit were Nos. 1 and 2, with $15.4 billion and $11.4 billion.  “Given their financial power, Auchan and Metro should be
No. 1 and No. 2, but that’s not the case,” said Galitskiy.  With Magnit’s market value already more than double X5’s --
$15.3 billion versus $5.6 billion at the close of trading in
London yesterday -- Galitskiy’s now focused on gaining a bigger
chunk of the market. And unlike X5, which has expanded mainly
through acquisitions, he prefers to build from scratch. Any
discussion about his success “should be postponed for 15 or 20
years,” he said.  Happy Investors  “Investors are fond of Magnit as it has always met growth
targets announced by management, while X5 has had problems with
implementing its plans and integrating the different chains it
acquired,” said Mikhail Terentiev, a retail analyst at Otkritie
Capital in Moscow.  The biggest of those investors is Justin Leverenz, who
oversees about $25 billion for OppenheimerFunds Inc. and runs
the Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund, which owns about 5
percent of Magnit, the largest holding after Galitskiy. Leverenz
said he was “completely charmed” by Galitskiy when he first
met him in Krasnodar in 2008 and bought shares that year, when
“nobody wanted to look” at Magnit because it was too small.  “He is a real operator, not a banker,” Leverenz said by
phone from  New York . “His character is very much logistics and
trading. And a part of that is that he is the guy from southern
Russia who doesn’t consider Moscow to be the center of
everything.”  Fridman Who?  Leverenz said he was having dinner in with Galitskiy in
Moscow when his biggest competitor, Fridman, walked into the
restaurant and Galitskiy didn’t recognize him. Fridman, though,
the world’s 54th richest person according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index , recognized Galitskiy and walked over to
their table to introduce himself.  Fridman’s X5 emerged as the country’s largest food retailer
in 2006, after his Perekriostok chain acquired Pyaterochka
Holding NV for $1.2 billion. X5 then bought the Karusel chain of
hypermarkets for $940 million in 2008 and discount network
Kopeyka for $1.65 billion in 2010.  “We are constantly looking at acquisition opportunities,
but we won’t buy anything until these exaggerated price tags go
down,” Galitskiy said. Magnit plans to open about 850 food
stores this year and a similar amount next year without selling
shares and relying mainly on bank loans, though details of its
strategy won’t be announced until the fourth quarter, he said.  The Russian supermarket industry may be ripe for
consolidation. The five largest operators by revenue -- X5,
Magnit, Auchan, Metro and OAO Dixy -- have just 13 percent of
the market combined, compared with 72 percent for the top five
in Germany and 25 percent in Poland, according to X5.  ‘Running Fast’  Even after years of frenzied growth, Magnit still has less
than 5 percent of the market, meaning it could be five or even
10 times bigger than it is now, Prosperity’s Westman said.  The pace of growth in the industry as a whole also shows no
signs of slowing, said Ivan Kushch, an analyst in Moscow at VTB
Capital. VTB expects retail food sales to increase 62 percent to
14.7 trillion rubles ($460 billion) a year by 2016 as the
economy expands, wages and pensions rise and chains replace
open-air markets and kiosks, Kushch said.  It’s the possibilities for profit from that kind of growth
that’s got Galitskiy focused on the domestic market.  “Why should I go to other markets?” Galitskiy said.
“Magnit only has 4 percent in Russia, which leaves us plenty of
opportunities to expand. Are there new opportunities? Yes, but
we are already running very fast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  