-- Ryan Lochte’s Suit, $300 Tennis Dresses: Scene Last Night
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-09-07T14:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/ryan-lochte-s-suit-300-tennis-dresses-scene-last-night.html
Ryan Lochte , Olympic gold medalist,
said he owns about 18 or 19 business suits and 200 to 300
Speedos.  For the “Guys Fashion’s Night Out” celebration at
Ainsworth Park last night he wore a T-shirt and jeans.  “I’d be more comfortable walking in here in a Speedo than
a suit,” Lochte said.  None of the women (who greatly outnumbered the guys at the
event) would have objected.  Lochte, 28, is making an attempt to get comfortable in
workday attire. On Wednesday he attended the Joseph Abboud
menswear show and plans to hit others during  New York  Fashion
Week.  “I like being fashionable and I do want to design my own
clothing line,” Lochte said.  Last night he designed a jacket with  Windsor Custom , the
bespoke clothier that operates out of the basement of the
original Ainsworth in Chelsea.  “I have a lot of dark-colored suits,” Lochte said. “I
wanted something light, so I chose gray. The lining is the
American flag.”  “Let’s just say when we went to measure his arm span, the
tape measure didn’t make it the whole way,” said Brian Mazza, a
founder of Windsor Custom and a partner in the expanding
Ainsworth family.  Both The Ainsworth Las Vegas and Ainsworth Park opened
Wednesday, which was opening day for the National Football
League season.  And what’s a guy to wear to these upscale lounge/sports
bars? “A nice button-down shirt,” Mazza said. “Make sure it’s
tucked in. With nice fitted jeans or slacks and Chucks or
loafers.”  Lisa Perry  Richard Perry , president and managing partner of Perry
Partners LP, beamed as his wife, Lisa Perry, presented her
spring 2013 collection Wednesday afternoon.  Asked what dresses would be appropriate to wear to the
office, he pointed to a just-below-the-knee swingy white dress.
The program described it as a “leather lunar dress in white
lambskin.”  “You could wear it with a jacket,” Perry, the chairman of
 Barneys New York , said.  “You must have some fashionable women in your office,”
said interior designer Kelly Behun, who has an exhibition
opening Sept. 20 at  R 20th Century .  Stars, Moons  The collection is the first to feature an original print
composed of stars and moons.  “Literally, my inspiration was looking up at the night sky
at our house in North Haven,” Lisa Perry said.  There were moon pies for guests and sky-themed music
including two Beatles tunes, “Good Day Sunshine” and “Here
Comes the Sun.”  A David Bailey portrait of  Paul McCartney  and  John Lennon  -
- an enlargement of one of his photographs, which he then
painted on -- was the only decoration on the walls of the Lisa
Perry boutique on Madison Avenue.  Tennis Wear  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  partner Dusty Philip had a view of
his office from the rooftop of the James Hotel Wednesday night,
where he attended a party for  L’Etoile Sport , a new line of
tennis wear.  Alex Navab, co-head of the North American private equity
business at  KKR & Co. (KKR) , was another man in finance getting some
Fashion Week party action.  Philip’s wife, Yesim, and Hannah Griswold, founded the
collection in June. Neither has a design background. Yesim
Philip played professional basketball in  Turkey  before she came
to the U.S. to study at Yale. Griswold studied ballet and has
worked as a nonprofit fundraiser.  The most relevant experience they bring to L’Etoile Sport
is playing tennis.  “Our theme is ’Play all day,’” Griswold said of the line.
It features tops, skirts and dresses designed to be worn from
the tennis court to lunch to picking the kids up at school. The
dresses are priced at $225 to $325, and skirts are $125 to $135.  “We wanted to bring fashion back to tennis,” Philip
added, pointing to a white skirt she said was inspired by the
designs of Azzedine Alaia.  Dusty Philip could probably get used to being part of the
fashion scene. He said one of his favorite parties was the 2011
Costume Institute Gala at the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art, where
his company included  Mick Jagger  and  Colin Firth .  The Fashion Institute of Technology announced a new two-
year tuition scholarship at its Couture Council luncheon on
Wednesday. Created by an anonymous donor, it is named after
Oscar de la Renta, who was honored at the event at the David H.
Koch Theater at  Lincoln Center . The first recipient is from
Queens, New York, said the institute’s president, Joyce Brown.  The event drew some devoted consumers of fashion. Hilary
Geary Ross, wife of  Wilbur Ross , wore a de la Renta dress with
black appliques that reminded her of piano keys. She sat next to
composer Karen LeFrak, who is missing the opening of New York
Philharmonic’s season to perform a debut in Russia. Ross, a
writer, is working with photographer Harry Benson on a book on
Palm Beach, to be published in 2013.  Eleanora Kennedy, a chairman of the luncheon with Alexandra
Lebenthal, proudly wore the de la Renta red dress that  Ann Romney  wore for her speech at the  Republican National
Convention .  Nina Rennert Davidson was a bit of a rebel in a hot-pink
Alexander McQueen dress and Givenchy boots.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on film,  Robert
Heller  on  music .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 