-- S&P 500 Rallies to Highest Since 2008 on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-09-08T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/s-p-500-rallies-to-highest-since-2008-on-stimulus-bets.html
U.S.  stocks  rose for the week,
sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to the highest since
2008, amid bets the Federal Reserve will stimulate the economy
and as the European Central Bank announced a bond-buying plan.  Bank of America Corp.  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. climbed at
least 5.8 percent for the week, following a surge in European
lenders. Newmont Mining Corp., the largest U.S. gold producer,
jumped 2 percent as the metal rose to a six-month high.
Amazon.com Inc. added 4.4 percent after introducing a new line
of Kindle e-readers and tablets.  Facebook (FB)  Inc. rallied 5.1
percent after Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said he
won’t start selling his holdings for at least a year.  The S&P 500 added 2.2 percent to 1,437.92, snapping a two-
week decline, in its biggest rally since June. It rose within 10
percent of its all-time high in  October 2007. (SPX)  The Dow Jones
Industrial Average gained 215.80, or 1.6 percent, to 13,306.64,
its highest level since December 2007.  “It’s turned into a central bank put,” Ryan Larson,
Chicago-based head of U.S. equity trading at RBC Global Asset
Management (U.S.) Inc., said in a phone interview. His firm
oversees $250 billion in assets. “Europe continues to move in
the right step. In the U.S., there was no relief to Bernanke’s
‘grave concern’ about unemployment. The market is sensing that
this will increase the odds if not force the Fed’s hands to
announce some kind of additional policy easing.”  Bets on further stimulus measures grew as data showed
payrolls rose less than projected and the unemployment rate was
unexpectedly driven down by Americans leaving the labor force.
On Aug. 31, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cited his concern about
the jobless rate and said the central bank will provide
additional stimulus as needed to promote a stronger recovery.
The Fed’s Open Market Committee meets in the coming week and
will release a statement on Sept. 13.  Bond Buying  American equities also joined a global rally as ECB
President Mario Draghi announced an unlimited bond-buying
program. Draghi said the ECB will have a “fully effective
backstop to avoid destructive scenarios with potentially severe
challenges for price stability in the euro area.”  “It looks like the European Union is going to survive at
least for a while,” said Byron Wien, vice chairman of the
advisory services unit of Blackstone Group LP, the world’s
biggest private-equity firm. He spoke in a Sept. 6 phone
interview from New York. “ Mario Draghi  looks like he’s serious
about doing whatever it takes to provide liquidity.”  All  10 groups  in the S&P 500 rallied during the holiday-
shortened week as commodity and financial shares had the biggest
gains, adding at least 3.5 percent. The  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Cyclical
Index of companies most-tied to the economy advanced 3.6
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index,
which measures the cost of using options as insurance against
declines in the S&P 500, tumbled 18 percent, the most since
June, to 14.38.  Financial Stocks  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  of 24 stocks gained 4.4 percent. The
 Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLF) , an exchange-traded fund,
climbed 3.4 percent. Bank of America added 10 percent, the
biggest gain in the Dow, to $8.80.  JPMorgan (JPM)  increased 5.8
percent to $39.30. Morgan Stanley rallied 14 percent to $17.08.  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  jumped 9.3 percent to $27.50. The
eighth-largest U.S. lender by deposits announced plans to
liquidate its stake in Coca-Cola Co. to help cover costs of
restructuring bad loans.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  rose 8.6 percent to
$19.47. The insurer agreed to  sell  its retirement-plans business
for $400 million to Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co.  Gold Rallies  Gold producers rallied as the metal topped $1,700 an ounce
on speculation that the Fed will provide further stimulus
measures, lifting demand for gold as an inflation hedge.  Newmont
Mining (NEM)  added 2 percent to $51.69.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold
Inc. (FCX) , the biggest publicly traded copper producer, rose 9.2
percent to $39.43.  Amazon.com increased 4.4 percent to a record $259.14. Chief
Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  is retooling the company’s tablets
as consumers face a widening array of choices, including new
entries from Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp. At stake is a piece
of a market that may reach $66.4 billion this year, according to
research firm DisplaySearch.  Facebook jumped 5.1 percent to $18.98. Zuckerberg has yet
to adopt a share sale plan, the Menlo Park, California-based
company said in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The shares had been marking record lows since the
first share sale lockup for insiders expired in August amid
concern that businesses are spending less to advertise on the
world’s largest social-networking website.  New IPhone  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  climbed 2.3 percent to a record $680.44 after
the company sent out invitations to a Sept. 12 product event in
San Francisco, where it is expected to unveil a new iPhone with
a larger screen and thinner body. The shares have risen more
than sevenfold since Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  introduced the
first iPhone in January 2007.  The company also is considering introducing an online
service to stream music based on users’ tastes, according to two
people with knowledge of the plans.  Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  rallied 13 percent to $24.76.
The maker of International brand trucks reported third-quarter
results that  topped  analysts’ estimates. Lewis Campbell, who
became interim chief executive officer after Dan Ustian was
ousted amid an inquiry from regulators, said he expects
“significant improvements” in the next 12 to 18 months.  Walgreen’s Sales  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  slumped 2.3 percent to $34.94 after posting
fiscal fourth-quarter revenue that trailed estimates. Walgreen
has lost customers this year to CVS Caremark Corp. and Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. after its agreement to provide prescriptions for
Express Scripts Inc. customers expired.  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , the foodmaker that will split into two
companies next month, fell 3.7 percent to $39.99 after Chief
Financial Officer David Brearton told investors that 2012 and
2013 profit may be lower than expected.  VeriFone Systems Inc. (PAY)  tumbled 6.5 percent to $32.48 after
the maker of credit-card terminals reported third-quarter  sales 
that fell short of analysts’ estimates, citing unfavorable
currency swings, competition in Europe and a fire in Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  