-- Saints Bounty Players Reinstated With Further Penalties Possible
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-09-08T04:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/saints-bounty-suspensions-voided-with-further-penalties-possible.html
An arbitration panel dismissed the
 National Football League ’s suspensions of four players who were
involved with the New Orleans Saints’ bounty pool case and left
the door open for further disciplinary action.  The season-long suspension of linebacker Jonathan Vilma was
overturned, along with shorter bans for  Scott Fujita , Anthony Hargrove and  Will Smith .  The panel determined that NFL Commissioner  Roger Goodell 
lacked the authority to impose discipline for unauthorized
compensation, or money that might have been paid under the
bounty plan. He is allowed to punish players for intent to
injure opponents, the arbitrators said in a four-page opinion.  “Consistent with the panel’s decision, Commissioner
Goodell will, as directed, make an expedited determination of
the discipline imposed for violating the league’s pay-for-
performance/bounty rule,” NFL spokesman  Greg Aiello  said in an
e-mail. “Until that determination is made, the four players are
reinstated and eligible to play starting this weekend.”  Saints spokesman Greg Bensel didn’t immediately return
telephone or e-mail messages seeking comment.  The panel’s summary decision said Goodell has the power to
discipline the players, but that it was uncertain whether the
discipline handed down was attributable in any part to
violations that should have been within the jurisdiction of the
arbitrator.  Quick Decision  Goodell’s decision on whether to impose further penalties
will be made “as expeditiously as possible,” Aiello said in an
e-mail.  “It’s not clear from the record before us whether the
commissioner had the distinction we draw in mind at the time he
disciplined the players,” the panel said. “To the extent that
any portion of the discipline previously imposed was ascribed to
the undisclosed-compensation aspects of the program, any re-
imposed discipline should be adjusted accordingly.”  In May, Goodell suspended Vilma without pay for the 2012
season, in which he was due to make $1.6 million. Hargrove, a
free-agent defensive lineman, was suspended for eight games;
Smith, a defensive end, for four games; and Fujita, a linebacker
now with the  Cleveland Browns , for three games.  Yesterday’s decision doesn’t affect suspensions handed down
against Saints coaches, including head coach  Sean Payton  and
former defensive coordinator  Gregg Williams , or General Manager
Mickey Loomis.  Two Dozen  About two dozen players participated in the bounty system,
according to the league. Vilma, an eight-year veteran and 2004
first-round draft pick of the  New York Jets , was one of four
players punished for their alleged participation.  “The investigation concluded that while a captain of the
defensive unit Vilma assisted Coach Williams in establishing and
funding the program,” the NFL said at the time of the
suspensions. “Multiple independent sources also confirmed that
Vilma offered a specific bounty -- $10,000 in cash -- to any
player who knocked  Arizona  quarterback Kurt Warner out of the
2009 divisional playoff game and later pledged the same amount
to anyone who knocked Minnesota quarterback  Brett Favre  out of
the 2009 NFC Championship Game the following week.”  The Saints defensive captain, Vilma has denied receiving or
paying a bounty for the deliberate hurting of another team’s
player.  “Victory is mine!!!!,” Vilma said yesterday on his
Twitter account.  The arbitration panel consisted of Fern Smith, a San
Francisco judge; Richard Howell, a retired federal judge from
New York; and  Georgetown University  professor James Oldham,
according to the  Associated Press .  Union Suit  The NFL Players Association sued the NFL in July to
overturn the suspensions. The union said there was no bounty
program and that Goodell -- who issued the suspensions and later
rejected the players’ appeals -- was biased against them.  “The investigation and arbitration process that the
commissioner’s public-relations machinery touted as ‘thorough
and fair’ has, in reality, been a sham,” the association said
at the time.  New Orleans opens its season tomorrow against the
 Washington Redskins .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  