-- Samsung Chips Said to Be Kept From New IPhone on Pricing
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-09-07T07:57:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/samsung-chips-said-to-be-kept-from-new-iphone-in-price-dispute.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  won’t supply
memory chips for the first shipments of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s new iPhone
because of a disagreement about pricing, a person familiar with
the matter said.  Samsung’s displays also won’t be included in the initial
batches of the new smartphone expected to be released next week,
a second person familiar with the matter said. The Suwon, South
Korea-based company will continue supplying the processor
powering the device, the person said, declining to be identified
because the information is confidential.  The iPhone maker has been diversifying its chip and display
suppliers to reduce its reliance on its biggest smartphone
competitor, which also is the world’s largest maker of flat
screens and semiconductors holding memory. Apple and Samsung are
waging court fights on four continents after the Cupertino,
California-based company accused the Galaxy maker of copying the
iPhone last year.  “Apple doesn’t like to be dependent on Samsung -- there’s
no question about it,” Lee Sun Tae, a Seoul-based analyst at NH
Investment & Securities Co., said by phone. Even so, “there’s
only so much volume Apple can get from other vendors. They will
probably have to come back to Samsung later on.”  The Korea Economic Daily reported Apple’s exclusion of some
Samsung components earlier today, citing a deepening legal
dispute between the technology giants as a possible reason.
Jason Kim, a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, and Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment. Carolyn Wu,
a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t immediately
respond to phone calls and an e-mail seeking comment.  IPhone Debut  Apple accounts for about 9 percent of Samsung’s revenue,
making it the company’s largest customer, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of memory chips and displays to Apple will probably
account for 3 percent of Samsung’s earnings per share this year,
compared with about 4 percent in 2011, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein’s estimates.  Samsung shares gained 4.5 percent to 1,250,000 won at the
close of trading in  Seoul , while the Kospi index rose 2.6
percent.  Apple is preparing to introduce the next iPhone on Sept. 12
in what will be a design overhaul of its top-selling product,
two people with knowledge of the company’s plans said in July.
The company has been introducing a new version of the device
each year since 2007.  New screen technology that will be part of the next version
of the iPhone is being made by LG Display Co., Sharp Corp. and
Japan Display KK, according to research by Sanford C. Bernstein.  The U.S. company will use screens from AU Optronics Corp.
and LG Display for a smaller version of the iPad to be released
in October, according to four people familiar with the plans in
August.  Samsung and Apple’s interdependence traces its roots to the
beginning of the iPhone, as the U.S. company turned to the South
Korean chipmaker to make a microprocessor tailored to the device
ahead of its 2007 debut.  The two companies, which had already worked together in
screens and memory chips, signed a deal that resulted in Samsung
becoming the sole manufacturer of the A-series of chips, which
are at the heart of the iPhone and iPad. That relationship was
complicated as Samsung gained on Apple in smartphone sales with
its own Galaxy devices.  “In addition to litigation risks, we believe Apple is
trying to actively diversify their component supply away from
Samsung,”  Mark Newman , a Hong Kong-based senior analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a Sept. 5 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  