-- Samsung Says Apple Patent Invalid as Court Hears Claim on Galaxy
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-09-07T15:06:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/samsung-says-apple-patent-invalid-as-court-hears-claim-on-galaxy.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  said  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s patent claim on so-called multi-touch flags isn’t valid,
as its main competitor in smartphones pursues an infringement
case in the Netherlands to ban Samsung Galaxy handsets.  Apple claims Galaxy smartphones and tablets infringe the
patent that interprets finger activity on touchscreens.
Cupertino, California-based Apple lost an earlier claim against
 HTC Corp. (2498)  in the U.K. for infringing the patent, as a U.K. judge
said it was invalid because it was too obvious, according to Bas
Berghuis van Woortman, a lawyer for Simmons & Simmons LLP
representing Samsung.  “The patent is just a marginal solution for a problem that
doesn’t exist,” the Samsung lawyer said in court in The Hague.  The court started a new round of trials between Apple and
Samsung today concerning multiple patents and proceedings as
Apple seeks a ban on Galaxy devices in the country, where the
Suwon, South Korea-based company has its distribution center for
Europe. The companies compete in a global smartphone market that
grew 62 percent to $219 billion last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  In  Germany , Apple started a similar action against both
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s  Motorola Mobility unit  and Samsung. A Mannheim
court is scheduled to issue a verdict Sept. 21. Last year,
Apple’s claims about several smartphone and tablet patents were
dismissed in the Netherlands in preliminary proceedings.  Apple won a verdict of more than $1.05 billion in the U.S.
Aug. 24 after jurors found Samsung infringed six of seven
patents for mobile devices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  