-- Scary Dunst; Empty ‘Words’; Brilliant ‘Lights On’: Movies
-- B y   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-09-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/scary-dunst-empty-words-brilliant-lights-on-movies.html
“ Bachelorette ” views straight men
and women as different species, violently antagonistic and
equally deadly. It’s such a cruel comedy that the first laughs
it shocks out of the audience are too hateful to be much fun.  The movie doesn’t soften up, exactly, but eventually, like
the women at its center, it admits to something other than ice
cubes under its spiny shell.  Written and directed by Leslye Headland, based on her 2010
play, it takes place mostly on the eve of a wedding. Ten years
after high school, the clique is reuniting.  There’s the lethally efficient one (Kirsten Dunst); the
self-hating, substance-abusing one (Lizzy Caplan); the dumb one
(Isla Fisher, who’s like a young Bernadette Peters); and the fat
one (Rebel Wilson) -- who, to the others’ outrage, is the bride.  Adding salt to their wounds, the groom is a hunk.  The bland bride is the movie’s weak link, but it isn’t
Wilson’s fault -- the others have all the good lines.  The premise is that she’s landed what they so desperately
want because there’s something special about her. Headland never
shows us what it is, though. She does far better by the other
three.  Dunst, playing a vicious, angry shrew, tears into the role
with a carnivorous joy that’s infectious. So do her cohorts.
There are points where you may gasp -- before you burst out
laughing -- at what actresses this good can do with lines this
mean.  “Bachelorette,” from Radius-TWC, is playing across the
U.S. Rating: ****  ‘The Words’  The main distinction of “ The Words ” is its stories-
within-stories construction.  The one at the center involves a couple (Ben Barnes and
Nora Arnezeder) in postwar Paris, and the brilliant
autobiographical novel the young husband writes (in two weeks!)
after a crisis.  In the surrounding one, set in the present, a failed  New
York  writer ( Bradley Cooper ) finds the lost typescript and
passes it off as his own, with alarming success.  Jeremy Irons  plays the real author, now an angry old codger
who looks 100, though in truth Irons is a mere 63.  Hot Writer  In the story that forms the thin shell (if it were removed,
no one would notice),  Dennis Quaid  is a successful novelist
reading his latest book, “The Words” -- which contains the two
other tales -- to an attentive audience.  Olivia Wilde is an ambitious student who has the bad taste
to ask him later, when they’re alone, how the book ends.
Evidently her foxiness forestalls the standard response: You’ll
have to read it, honey.  Brian Klugman and Lee Sternthal, the team who wrote and
directed “The Words,” have dredged up some harsh themes --
failure and the greed for unearned prestige. Yet they’re too
timid to confront them.  The delicately faded tones of the flashbacks, the
celebration of sweet young love, the somberly romantic music by
Marcelo Zarvos all push the picture in a safer direction, toward
niceness, gentleness, blandness.  “The Words,” from CBS Films, is playing across the U.S.
Rating: **  ‘Lights On’  You know Paul probably isn’t going to make a very good
boyfriend the first time the crack pipe comes out.  But you’ve seen the misery Erik tries to hide on his hook-
ups with a series of guys who have no interest in a second date.
Paul is closeted, passive, charming and smart. And his habit is
private.  “ Keep the Lights On ” follows their relationship for a
decade. The film is a downer, but it’s also a phenomenon. Its
sex scenes, many and graphic, are unsettling less for their
frankness than for their intimacy.  The writer-director, Ira Sachs, and his two leads, Thure
Lindhardt as Erik and Zachary Booth as Paul, work at a
stratospheric level of risk.  In truth, the actors are somewhat opaque through most of
the picture, largely because the dialogue (Sachs’s co-writer is
Mauricio Zacharias) doesn’t attempt to do much more than advance
the plot.  The conversations sag; none of the other characters comes
into focus. The artistry begins when the words stop.  Back Story  “Keep the Lights On” has been much talked about since it
was shown at the  Sundance Festival  in January, partly because
its back story is so widely known.  The plot is drawn from Sachs’s 10-year relationship with
the literary agent Bill Clegg, who has published his own well-
received memoir, “Portrait of an Addict as a Young Man,” and a
sequel, “Ninety Days,” about his recovery.  Sachs’s compassion for Erik feels a bit less exquisite once
you know how completely Erik is a stand-in for him. I found
myself disliking -- and judging -- both of these self-involved,
career-obsessed  New Yorkers . But I couldn’t tune out their
misery.  I understand that this may not sound like a ringing
recommendation, but potential viewers should know what they’re
getting themselves into. The movie is rough.  Its subject is dependency, emotional as well as physical,
and it burrows deep into feelings that few movies even
acknowledge. It’s a spectacular piece of filmmaking.  “Keep the Lights On,” from Music Box Films, is playing in
New York and  Los Angeles . Rating: *****  (Craig Seligman is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  and New York  Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
 Craig Seligman  at  cseligman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 