-- SEC Staff Recommending Against Standard Credit-Ratings Terms
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-09-07T20:52:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/sec-staff-recommending-against-standard-credit-ratings-terms.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission staff recommended against creating identical terms
and stress tests for credit-ratings, while supporting greater
transparency on how grades are determined.  Given the difficulty with implementing such standards,
“the staff believes it would be more efficient to focus on the
rulemaking initiatives mandated under the Dodd-Frank Act, which,
among other things, are designed to promote transparency,” the
agency’s staff said in a report posted today on its website.  The Dodd-Frank financial reform act required the agency to
consider requiring the use of the same ratings terms across
asset classes that would match a range of default probabilities,
and mandating companies including Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s  to use similar economic assumptions in stress
tests.  After inflated credit ratings for risky mortgage bonds were
blamed for helping cause the worst financial crisis since the
Great Depression, policy makers have been searching for a way to
ensure the grades are accurate. Dodd-Frank, which became law in
2010, instructed regulators to stop relying on ratings and
increased oversight of the companies that issue them.  In 1936, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
banned banks from holding bonds that were below investment
grade. The SEC began using ratings in its rules in 1975,
specifying that the only companies whose grades could be used
were S&P, Moody’s and Fitch. Those firms were designated
nationally recognized statistical rating organizations, or
NRSROs. There are now nine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  