-- Serb Central Bank Pledges Autonomy, Urges Fiscal Restraint
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-09-07T16:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/serbian-central-banker-pledges-institution-s-independence-2-.html
Serbia ’s new central bank governor
said tighter parliamentary control over the institution won’t
affect its independence and urged the government to cut the
 budget deficit  to help the bank conduct monetary policy.  Improved fiscal policies would support the bank’s inflation
targeting, even as price growth may reach 10 percent by the end
of the year, Jorgovanka Tabakovic told reporters in Belgrade
today. The bank maintained its forecast for the economy to
contract 0.5 percent this year and grow 2.5 percent in 2013, she
said.  “I believe this government will seriously work on fiscal
consolidation and on reducing the deficit” to enable the
Narodna Banka Srbije “to conduct monetary policy in a more
relaxed way,” she said. The shortfall reached 7.2 percent of
gross domestic product and public debt hit 54.7 percent of GDP
at the end of June, both above their respective targets.  The  International Monetary Fund  suspended a loan deal with
Serbia in February over the fiscal failure. An IMF mission is
due in Belgrade next week for talks on Serbia’s economic outlook
and a new central bank law the fund has criticized for impinging
on the bank’s autonomy. Tabakovic said she expects a new
arrangement with the IMF by year’s end.  Steady Rates  The bank unexpectedly kept the  benchmark interest rate  at
10.5 percent yesterday after raising it three times since June.
The inflation rate rose to 6.1 percent in July, above the bank’s
target range, will peak in the first half of 2013, “but it
won’t go much above 10 percent,” Tabakovic said.  Premier Ivica Dacic said yesterday the state will boost the
budget by as much as 1 billion euros ($1.28 billion) through
spending cuts and higher taxes.  The current-account deficit, at 14 percent of GDP at the
end of June, will narrow toward the end of the year and average
7.5 percent in 2013, while foreign-exchange reserves were
“satisfactory” at 9.9 billion euros ($12.63 billion) on Sept.
4, Tabakovic said.  The banking industry is “quite stable,” with a capital-
adequacy ratio of 17.2 percent and a rate of non-performing
loans at 19.7 percent, she said. The rate was 8.5 percent among
individual borrowers and 23.7 percent among corporate clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  