-- Shale Boom Cuts Gulf Oil Premium to 24-Year Low: Energy Markets
-- B y   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2012-09-07T19:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/shale-boom-cuts-gulf-oil-premium-to-24-year-low-energy-markets.html
The U.S. shale boom has driven the
cost of Gulf Coast light, sweet oil to its lowest level versus
 Brent crude  in almost a quarter century as the nation’s
dependence on foreign supplies wanes.  Light Louisiana Sweet, the benchmark grade for the Gulf
Coast known as LLS, has traded on the  spot market  at an average
of 15 cents a barrel more than Brent this year, the smallest
premium since at least 1988, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The spread’s highest annual average was $4.02 in 2008.  The drop has cut costs for refiners in  Texas  and Louisiana
accounting for 45 percent of U.S. capacity and replaced
competing shipments from Africa. Gulf imports of light, sweet
crude have fallen 56 percent since 2010, according to  U.S.
Energy Department data . A shale-oil influx from the Eagle Ford
formation in Texas and Bakken in  North Dakota  and new ways to
bring crude to the Gulf, such as this year’s reversal of the
Seaway pipeline, may accelerate the shift.  “The market dynamics are changing,” Edward L. Morse, head
of commodities research at Citigroup Global Markets in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “When the Gulf Coast was a crude
importer, they had to attract crude from elsewhere in the world,
which meant LLS had to be at a premium to Brent. But now we’re
moving into a totally different situation.”  Light Louisiana Sweet, a grade prized because its low-
sulfur content and density make it easier to process into fuels
such as gasoline, was $1.26 cheaper than Brent yesterday. It
averaged 23 cents less than the benchmark in the third quarter.
The spread was at a 63-cent discount today in New York.  Brent oil for October settlement rose 40 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $113.49 a barrel yesterday on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The contract advanced 76 cents, or 0.7
percent, to end the session at $114.25 a barrel today.  Energy Independence  U.S.  oil output  surged to the highest level in 13 years in
July, according to weekly Energy Department data. The U.S. met
83 percent of its energy demand from domestic sources in the
first five months of this year and is heading for the highest
annual level since 1991, department figures compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Unconventional oils and gas are changing everything about
our competitiveness in the United States,”  Bill Klesse , Valero
Energy Corp.’s chief executive officer, said yesterday at the
Barclays CEO Energy/Power Conference in New York. “Before you
know it, we’re going to have so much light, sweet crude that in
the U.S. Gulf Coast we’re not going to be importing light, sweet
crude, and we think that happens next year.”  Houston, New Orleans and other ports along the Gulf Coast
accepted about 554,000 barrels a day of light, sweet oil from
outside the U.S. in June, down from 964,000 barrels a day in
June 2011 and about 1.25 million in June 2010, according to the
Energy Department’s Energy Information Administration.  African Imports  The West African nations of Nigeria, Angola, Gabon and
 Equatorial Guinea  accounted for 58 percent of the light, sweet
crude imported into Gulf Coast ports in June 2012. North African
nations accounted for a further 30 percent.  LLS will become about $5 a barrel cheaper than Brent during
the next 12 months,  David Pursell , a Houston-based managing
director for Tudor, Pickering, Holt & Co., said in a telephone
interview. The discount would take into account the extra cost
of getting LLS to other customers, such as refiners on the East
Coast, Pursell said.  Like oil in the Midcontinent, the relationship between LLS
and Brent has been upended by surging shale production. West
Texas Intermediate oil at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the U.S. benchmark
grade traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , shifted to a
discount to Brent almost two years ago after trading at a
premium for decades.  Midcontinent Glut  Cushing inventories  surged to 47.8 million barrels in June,
the highest level since Energy Department records for the hub
began in 2004. The WTI-Brent spread reached a record $27.88 in
October. It was at $18.03 a barrel today.  “Over the last year and a half, with the WTI-Brent spread
blowing out, the primary beneficiaries have been the
Midcontinent players,” Cory Garcia, a Houston-based oil analyst
for  Raymond James  & Associates, an arm of the financial-services
company with almost $40 billion under management, said in a
phone interview. “As LLS disconnects next year, the benefits to
Gulf Coast refiners will be brought to the forefront.”  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  reversed
the flow of crude on the Seaway pipeline on May 19. The link,
carrying as much as 150,000 barrels a day from Cushing to Gulf
Coast refineries, is scheduled to pump as much as 400,000
barrels a day early next year.  Shale Production  About 300,000 barrels a day of Bakken oil is being shipped
from North Dakota by rail, Al Monaco, Enbridge Inc.’s president,
said in a July 11 presentation in Calgary. Some rail deliveries
of Bakken are reaching Texas and Louisiana,  Lee Klaskow , a
Skillman, New Jersey-based analyst for Bloomberg Industries
Research, said.  The Bakken formation, which stretches across parts of North
Dakota, Montana and Saskatchewan, and the Eagle Ford formation
in south Texas produce the majority of shale oil in the U.S.,
ahead of formations such as Niobrara in Wyoming and Colorado,
Bone Spring in Texas and  New Mexico  and Monterey in California.  Eagle Ford produced about 283,000 barrels a day this June,
up from about 98,000 barrels a day in June 2011 and no barrels
in April 2008, according to the  Railroad Commission of Texas ,
the state’s oil and gas regulator.  Getting to Market  “We have all these sweet barrels in the Midwest that need
to find a home, and they’re getting to the market by planes,
trains and automobiles, you name it,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova, Pennsylvania.
“You compound that with increased production in west Texas and
the Eagle Ford, and you have a template for LLS to move to a
discount.”  The capacity to transport light, sweet oil to the Gulf
Coast from Cushing and inland shale formations will expand to
more than 2 million barrels a day by the end of this year and
4.5 million by the end of 2014 from less than 500,000 barrels a
day at the end of 2011, Klesse said yesterday.  Valero currently buys about 140,000 barrels of oil a day
from Eagle Ford, said  Bill Day , a San Antonio-based spokesman
for the company. The crude is transported by truck to an
unloading dock next to  Valero (VLO) ’s Three Rivers, Texas, refinery.
About 70,000 barrels a day is fed to that refinery, and the
remainder via recently reversed pipelines to plants in  Corpus
Christi  and Houston.  The company brought two foreign oil shipments totaling
547,000 barrels of light, sweet crude to Gulf Coast ports in
June, down from 4.88 million barrels in June 2010, data from the
Energy Department showed.  Inflection Point  Companies such as  Phillips 66 (PSX)  are also rethinking long-term
business plans because of cheaper domestic supply.  Phillips 66 Chief Executive Officer Greg Garland said Aug.
1 that the refiner had changed its mind about selling its
Alliance plant in Louisiana in part because of forecasts that
LLS will shift to a $2- or $3-a-barrel discount to Brent.  “In the interim year that passed since we first made that
decision, our view has changed in terms of Gulf Coast crudes,
particularly LLS, becoming an advantage,” Garland said on a
conference call with analysts and investors.  The shift in the U.S. market could have lasting
repercussions on global markets as well.  Weaker Brent  A drop in U.S. imports of light, sweet oil could weaken
Brent, Garcia said. Raymond James is forecasting $80 Brent next
year, based predominantly on production growth in non-OPEC
countries like the U.S., he said.  “People think that U.S. supply growth is sort of
disconnected or irrelevant because it can’t export, but it can
back out imports and we believe that will have a significant
impact on the global oil markets,” Garcia said.  Federal law restricts exports of crude oil without
permission from the president. The U.S.  exported  just 0.7
percent of domestic oil production in June, with  none of it 
leaving from the Gulf Coast, Energy Department data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  