-- Sharp Works on Contingency Plan for Bank Funding to Repay Debt
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-09-07T10:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/sharp-says-it-plans-to-submit-revival-plan-to-banks-this-month.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , the Japanese
electronics maker renegotiating a stake sale to Foxconn
Technology Group, is working on a contingency plan to present to
banks as the company faces a deadline for repaying debt.  “We’ve been discussing revival measures and studying our
business portfolio,” Tetsuo Onishi, senior executive managing
officer in charge of accounting, told reporters in  Osaka  today.
Getting no investment from Foxconn “is a risk factor that needs
to be included,” in the plan, he said.  The maker of Aquos TVs, trying to raise cash after widening
its loss forecast eightfold last month, plans to submit revival
measures to its lenders later this month, spokeswoman  Miyuki Nakayama  said by phone. Sharp mortgaged most of its domestic
properties, including its Osaka headquarters and some factories,
and is cutting 5,000 jobs as part of a restructuring amid
slumping demand for its sets.  Nakayama declined to comment on details of the plan.  Sharp’s  shares  rose 3 percent to 206 yen at the close of
trading in  Tokyo , reversing earlier losses. The stock has
tumbled 69 percent so far this year, making it the worst
performer on the MSCI World Index.  March Agreement  Sharp put up properties as collateral while seeking as much
as 150 billion yen in loans from  Japan ’s Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd. and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., it said yesterday.  Sharp’s main lenders plan to arrange as much as 300 billion
yen ($3.8 billion) in financing for Sharp with or without
Foxconn’s capital injection, Reuters reported earlier today.  Nakayama and Simon Hsing, a spokesman for Taipei-based
Foxconn’s Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., declined to comment on
the Reuters report.  Foxconn agreed in March to buy 9.9 percent of Sharp for 67
billion yen in a sale of new shares at 550 yen apiece. Sharp’s
shares plunged to the lowest level in 37 years, prompting the
Taiwanese group to renegotiate the price for its stake.  A schedule for Sharp President Takashi Okuda to meet with
Foxconn’s Chairman Terry Gou hasn’t been set, Onishi said.  Japan’s biggest maker of liquid-crystal displays is in
talks with potential lenders, including life insurance
companies, for a syndicated loan, a person with knowledge of the
matter said last week.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc., Sharp’s two main banks, provided the company with a
short-term facility of 60 billion yen in July and an
approximately 150 billion-yen credit last month to help the
company refinance its commercial papers, according to another
person with knowledge of the matter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  