-- Singh Has 1-Stroke Lead Over Woods, McIlroy, Moore at BMW Event
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-09-08T04:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/singh-holds-1-shot-lead-over-woods-mcilroy-moore-at-bmw-event.html
Vijay Singh  takes a one-stroke lead
over Tiger Woods, Rory McIlroy and  Ryan Moore  into the third
round of golf’s BMW Championship, the third of four U.S.  PGA
Tour  playoff events.  The 49-year-old Singh had seven birdies and one bogey for a
6-under-par 66 yesterday at Crooked Stick Golf Club in Carmel,
 Indiana , and is at 13-under 131 for the tournament.  Woods and McIlroy, who were paired for the first two
rounds, are at 12 under. Woods finished a bogey-free round of 5-
under 67 with birdies on his final two holes.  “Today was a grind,” Woods said in a televised interview.
“I didn’t have my swing. I was staying as patient as possible.
When you look at the scores, guys were just running off.”  Because of heavy rain this week at the course, players have
been permitted to pick up their ball, clean it and replace it on
the fairways. The soft conditions allowed 61 of the 70 players
to score even par or better through two rounds.  “It’s a lot of pressure,” Woods said. “On a golf course
like this, you know that if you shoot something in the high 60s,
you’re going to get run over.”  Play began yesterday at 8 a.m. local time, almost three
hours earlier than planned, to avoid the threat of thunderstorms
in the afternoon.  McIlroy, who won the second of the four U.S. PGA Tour
playoff events on Sept. 3, was less consistent. Along with five
birdies, he had an eagle and four bogeys for a 4-under 68.  Moore, whose only PGA Tour win came at the 2009 Wyndham
Championship, matched Singh’s round with seven birdies and a
bogey.  England’s  Lee Westwood  and American Bo  Van Pelt  are tied at
11 under, three shots ahead of  Phil Mickelson .  Second Major  McIlroy’s win at the Deutsche Bank Championship five days
ago came three weeks after he captured the  PGA Championship , his
second major title. The latest victory for the 23-year-old from
 Northern Ireland  was his fifth on the PGA Tour and third this
year on the world’s richest golf circuit.  “I’ve always felt that confidence was a big part of my
game,” McIlroy said in a televised interview. “I play well
when I’m confident and I don’t play well when I’m not. This
probably is the most confident I’ve been in a long time.”  Following a one-week break after the BMW Championship, the
top 30 players on the points list will contend for the FedExCup
title and the champion’s $10 million bonus at the Tour
Championship at East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  