-- Solyndra Wins Court Leave to Seek Vote on Bankruptcy Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-09-07T21:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/solyndra-wins-court-leave-to-seek-vote-on-bankruptcy-plan.html
Solyndra LLC, the failed solar-panel
maker that received a $535 million U.S. Energy Department loan
guarantee before going bankrupt, won approval to seek creditors’
votes on its reorganization plan.  “With there being no remaining objections, I will approve
the disclosure statement and voting procedures,” U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath said today at a hearing in
Wilmington,  Delaware . The disclosure statement describes the
terms of the plans to creditors.  Walrath is to consider approving the plan at a hearing
scheduled for Oct. 17. Creditors have until Oct. 10 to both vote
for as well as object to approval of the recovery proposal.  Solyndra remedied objections from the government and the
 U.S. Trustee  by adding information to the disclosure statement
regarding potential tax breaks of as much as $341 million for
investors in Solyndra’s parent, 360 Degree Solar Holdings Inc.,
including Argonaut Ventures LLC and Madrone Partners LP.  Stuart D. Gibson, a lawyer for the  Internal Revenue
Service , said while the additions resolved the objection to the
disclosure statement he “anticipates filing an objection to
confirmation of the plan on behalf of IRS” because the time for
exchanging information among parties is shorter than usual with
the confirmation date so close.  ‘Short Leash’  “We are on a very short leash here,” he told Walrath.  Under the bankruptcy  code , a plan can be thwarted if its
principal purpose is to avoid taxes. The government would have
to prove that is the case.  While Solyndra will be liquidated under the plan,
360 Degree will exit court protection with net operating loss
carry forwards of as much as $975 million to use against future
income, according to court papers. The reorganized company will
have some undetermined business operations in the future
supported with investors’ capital.  Under the solar-panel maker’s restructuring plan, the
government might get little to nothing for its $528 million
claim from the loan guarantee. The government is projected to
recoup at most 19 percent on $142.8 million of the loan and
probably nothing on the remaining $385 million, according to the
disclosure statement.  ‘Creditor Support’  The company is “hopeful that they will have creditor
support” at the parent level, Maxim B. Litvak, a lawyer for
Solyndra, told Walrath.  The reorganized company could also potentially have an
additional $11 million to $12 million in tax credits for
research and development, according to court documents.  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities. It was the first company to receive
a loan guarantee under Obama’s stimulus program.  Argonaut Ventures, the investment arm of billionaire and
Obama fundraiser  George Kaiser ’s charitable organization, holds
almost 39 percent of Solyndra’s parent.  By early 2011 the fledgling solar startup began to face
competition from foreign companies and plummeting prices for
materials used in rivals’ products.  In February 2011, Solyndra was forced to restructure its
debt to obtain a fresh infusion of funds from existing
investors, including Argonaut, according to court papers.  Debt Supplanted  The restructuring caused the government’s debt to be
supplanted as the top priority of repayment by the investors’
new $75 million loan. Solyndra drew $69 million on the loan. The
investors stand to recover at least 55 percent of their loan,
and could see a full recovery.  Holders of $186.6 million in secured debt, which is
subordinate to the government’s debt, will also probably see no
recovery, according to the disclosure statement.  Unsecured creditors of 360 Degree are projected to get a
3 percent recovery on $27 million in claims, according to court
documents. Solyndra’s unsecured creditors, owed $90 million to
$135 million, will get an estimated recovery of as much as
3.3 percent.  Solyndra, based in Fremont,  California , was forced to shut
down operations and fire most of its 1,100 workers on Aug. 31,
2011. The company has preliminary approval of a
$3.5 million settlement with ex-workers, who claimed they didn’t
get adequate notice before being fired.  The solar-panel maker listed $854.1 million in assets and
$867.1 million in debt in court papers filed Oct. 31.  Selling Assets  Solyndra has sold most of its assets and is in the process
of selling its plant, built in part using the government funds,
after failing to get any acceptable offers to buy the company as
a whole and restart operations.  The company has agreed to sell the building to a unit of
Dublin-based Seagate Technology Plc for $90.3 million, subject
to competing offers at an auction and court approval, court
papers show. Solyndra generated about $14.1 million from sales
of other assets such as solar-panel tubes, manufacturing
equipment, appliances and memorabilia and apparel emblazoned
with its logo.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  