-- Spidey, ‘Mormon’ Ripped By ‘Forbidden’ Parody: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-09-08T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/spidey-mormon-ripped-by-forbidden-parody-review.html
“Forbidden Broadway.” Few words
strike more fear in stage icons -- nor incite greater
anticipation for theater fans.  Absent three years after a decades-long run, Gerard Alessandrini’s high-spirited, low-tech, take-no-prisoners revue
is back. The goal: pitilessly parodying Broadway hits, stars and
egos.  The targets of “ Forbidden Broadway: Alive and Kicking ”
include  Ricky Martin ,  Catherine Zeta-Jones , Bernadette Peters,
 Matthew Broderick ,  Stephen Sondheim , Mary Poppins and, of
course, Spider-Man.  If you’ve paid hard cash to see their shows, you’ll get the
insider jokes. Even if not, however, the nonstop flurry of wig
and costume changes, along with Alessandrini’s spot-on spoofery,
will keep you entertained at a fraction of the prices down the
street.  “Lost my show, lost my cash,” former “Spider-Man”
director  Julie Taymor  (Natalie Charle Ellis) sings to Bono
(Scott  Richard Foster ). “I wound up writing some Broadway
trash,” he replies, as an effigy of the super-hero plops to the
floor.  Bernadette’s Song  If the show has a patron saint, it’s Sondheim.  “In Stephen’s ear, I’m still on key a lot. In Stephen’s
mind, I can still play Dot, and I can stay hot,” sings Jenny
Lee Stern as a long-in-the-tooth Peters.  The show suggests the last time Peters was fully tuned was
in 1983, when she played Dot, Seurat’s muse, in “Sunday in the
Park With George.”  The limber cast of four play 50 roles. (The fifth member is
the enthusiastic pianist David Caldwell.) They’re amply assisted
by Bobbie Cliffton Zlotnik’s wigs, Philip Heckman’s costumes and
Alessandrini’s talent for putting caustic lyrics to familiar
tunes.  “Forbidden Broadway” went AWOL when the director and
lyricist said there wasn’t enough new material worth spoofing.  Three years later his cup runneth over.  There’s Ellis singing “Feed the ’Burbs,” a send-up of
“Feed the Birds” from the sickly-sweet “ Mary Poppins .”  Choice Targets  Stevens and Stern mock Mandy Patinkin and Patti LuPone in
their cringe-inducing concert show.  Stern, the breakout star in this superb ensemble, gets such
choice targets as Elena Roger, Argentine star of the “Evita”
revival.  “I got out of  Buenos Aires ,” she sings. “You wanna know
why they got-a rid of me? It’s my utter lack of star quality,”
she warbles.  Some of the darts are toss-offs, little more than visual
one-liners. A few fall flat. But Foster delivers a devastating
caricature of angsty singer Steve Kazee, of “Once.” “Nice
Work If You Can Get It,” “Porgy and Bess,” “Anything Goes”
and even TV’s “Smash” all take it on the chin.  Of course, Alessandrini’s target isn’t only these shows.  His real target is the critics who praise them. We’re the
ones forever being stunned, haunted, dazzled, gobsmacked, blown
away and otherwise given to ejaculations of ecstasy or
revulsion.  “Forbidden Broadway” merrily takes us all down a notch.
Nice work, if you can get it.  Through Jan. 6, 2013, at the 47th Street Theatre, 304 W.
47th St. Information: +1-212-239-6200;
 http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  and  Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 