-- U.K. Client-Money, JPMorgan Probe, Sukuk: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-07T12:25:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/u-k-client-money-jpmorgan-probe-sukuk-compliance.html
U.K. regulators plan to improve how
banks, brokerages and other companies protect clients’ funds,
particularly when the investment firm fails.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority  said yesterday  it
will incorporate “lessons learned from recent insolvencies such
as  Lehman Brothers International  and MF Global, and is intended
to assess the industry’s appetite for change.” It is seeking
industry and customer input on how to amend the rules.  The plans include overhauling rules on the treatment of
margin assets posted by failed companies on their derivatives
trades and amount to “the most radical change in the client-
assets regime in over 20 years,” the FSA said in an e-mailed
statement. “Today’s proposals will go a long way to ensure
confidence in U.K. markets is maintained.”  The FSA stepped up enforcement of client-money rules after
the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. The New
York-based bank’s former U.K. unit failed to segregate billions
of dollars of client funds from its own accounts, leaving
creditors with competing claims that resulted in years of
litigation. The issue has resurfaced in the administration of MF
Global Holding Ltd.’s U.K. unit.  The regulator levied its largest fine at the time, 33.3
million pounds ($53 million), in 2010 against  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s London unit for not properly separating an average of $8.6
billion of client money over seven years. Last year, it fined
Barclays Capital Securities Ltd. 1.12 million pounds for failing
to put as much as 752 million pounds-a-day in client money into
protected accounts.  The agency is seeking views on various ring-fenced money
sub-pools. The plans are partly driven by changes to EU law, the
FSA said.  Compliance Policy  EU’s Basel Implementation Criticized by Australian Regulator  Australian regulators have warned that the European Union
may be failing to correctly implement Basel  bank capital  rules,
as part of an international check into whether the EU is
faithfully applying the standards.  The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority, or APRA,
sent a note to international supervisors highlighting
shortcomings with draft EU legislation to implement the so-
called Basel III accord in the 27-nation bloc, said  Othmar
Karas , a member of the European Parliament responsible for bank
capital rules. The note is a contribution to a peer-review
process of how well the EU is introducing the measures, and was
discussed at a Sept. 5 meeting in Brussels between EU officials
and lawmakers, Karas said in an interview.  Global regulators agreed on the Basel measures in 2010 as
part of their response to the financial turmoil of 2008.  They
would more than triple the core capital that lenders must hold
to protect themselves from insolvency.  Basel Committee Chairman  Stefan Ingves  announced last year
that the group would probe how nations applied the Basel III
rules, scheduled to be phased in from 2012 to 2019, through a
peer review process and on-site inspections.  APRA was among a group of regulators responsible for
probing the EU, which has yet to adopt its final implementing
rules for Basel III.  For more, click here.  Turkey Won’t Charge Withholding Tax on Sukuk, Treasury Says  Turkey won’t charge a withholding tax on the Islamic bonds,
or sukuk, which it’s planning to sell to foreign investors this
month, the Treasury said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Turkey has hired  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and
Liquidity House, a unit of  Kuwait Finance House (KFIN) , to help study
options for the country’s first sale of Islamic sukuk bonds.  The Treasury in Ankara will hold meetings with investors in
the Middle East and Asia between Sept. 10 and Sept. 13, it said
in a statement on its website Sept. 5. The securities will be
denominated in dollars, according to two bankers involved in the
issue, who declined to be identified in advance of the sale.  Demand for the Turkish sukuk may be about $1 billion,
Abdullah Celik, chief executive officer of  Asya Katilim Bankasi
AS (ASYAB) , the country’s biggest bank complying with Islamic laws on
interest, said in an interview with Bloomberg HT television in
Istanbul Sept. 5. Bank Asya plans its own first sale of the
bonds in a “short time,” he said.  The parliament in Ankara passed a law in February last year
reducing the withholding tax on a sukuk to 10 percent and
exempting the sales from value-added, stamp and corporate taxes,
putting them on par with non-Islamic bonds.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan Said to Face Escalating Senate Probe of CIO Losses  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s wrong-way bets on derivatives are
the focus of an escalating probe by a U.S. Senate panel led by
 Carl Levin  that has grilled executives from banks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and HSBC Holdings Plc, three people
briefed on the inquiry said.  Levin’s  Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations  is seeking
testimony from people who worked in or helped lead JPMorgan’s
chief investment office, according to the people, who declined
to be identified because the inquiry isn’t public. The unit’s
London staff lost at least $5.8 billion this year on the botched
bets, which were large enough to shift markets.  Tara Andringa, a spokeswoman for Levin, didn’t immediately
respond to a message seeking comment, and  Joe Evangelisti  at
JPMorgan declined to discuss the panel’s inquiry. “As always,
the company has fully cooperated with all regulatory and
governmental requests around this matter,” Evangelisti said.  JPMorgan, the nation’s largest bank by assets, has lost
more than $22 billion in shareholder value since  Bloomberg News 
first reported on April 5 that it amassed a large and illiquid
position in  credit derivatives  in the unit’s London office.
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, has since overhauled
the division.  The Senate panel is unencumbered by many of the political
restraints faced by other congressional committees. As a
permanent fixture in a chamber whose members only have to run
for office every six years, the panel has more resources and can
pursue longer inquiries in greater depth.  For more, click here.  Car Loan Rules Spur Indonesian Shariah Lending: Islamic Finance  Indonesian consumer-finance companies are turning to
Shariah-compliant lending after regulators tightened rules on
non-Islamic loans for buying cars and motorcycles.  PT Adira Dinamika Multi Finance (ADMF) , the nation’s largest,
started a business complying with the Muslim faith in July and
expects it to eventually account for as much as 20 percent of
operations, Sylvanus Gani Mendrofa, head of the corporate
secretary division, said in an Aug. 28 interview in Jakarta.
Shariah lenders PT Amanah Finance and  PT Al Ijarah Indonesia
Finance  said loans will grow at least 30 percent per annum in
the next few years, faster than the 23 percent growth for the
whole industry during the past five years.  Lenders must receive  deposits  of at least 25 percent of the
value of cars and 20 percent for motorcycles, the  finance
ministry  said in March.  For more, click here.  Ambow Trading Halted on Company’s Probe Into Unit’s Schools  Trading in  Ambow Education Holding Ltd. (AMBO)  was halted after
the private tutoring services provider said it will start a
probe into its units following a report by China’s state
television.  China’s Central Television said on Sept. 3 that Ambow’s
one-on-one education unit exaggerated staff training results and
that the schools’ registrations with industry regulators were
incomplete, according to a  statement  by Ambow posted Sept. 5.
Ambow said it will start an investigation into the issues
“immediately,” discipline the persons involved and take
corrective steps.  It’s not the company’s policy to encourage staff to
exaggerate training results, Ambow Chief Strategy Officer Jenny
Zhan said in a phone interview from Beijing. “The company’s
investigation on the CCTV allegations is still ongoing, which
doesn’t mean we admit everything the TV report said,” she said,
adding the company will publish a statement after the
investigation.  For more, click here.  Courts  Ex-UBS Trader Adoboli’s $2.3 Billion Trading-Loss Trial to Begin  Kweku Adoboli, accused of unauthorized trades that cost  UBS
AG (UBSN)  $2.3 billion, will go on trial next week charged with fraud
and false accounting in one of the highest-profile banking cases
ever heard in London.  Since being released on bail three months ago, Adoboli, 32,
has worked on his defense at the office of his law firm, Bark &
Co. He is facing an eight-week trial in criminal court to decide
whether he caused the largest unauthorized trading loss in
British history at UBS’s investment bank a year ago.  He is charged with falsifying records on exchange-traded
fund transactions and other documents needed for accounting
purposes as early as October 2008, according to his indictment.
Prosecutors also charged him with fraud for abusing his senior
trader position “by causing or exposing UBS Bank to losses
intending thereby to make a gain for himself.”  In the U.K., fraud charges carry a maximum sentence of 10
years in jail, and seven years for false accounting. Adoboli is
facing two counts of each.  Tim Harris , Adoboli’s lawyer, said he was unable to comment
on the case before trial, which is scheduled to start Sept. 10.  “The U.K. criminal process is ongoing and will run its
course,” UBS spokesman  Richard Morton  said in an e-mailed
statement. “UBS is not a party to the case and therefore has no
further comment.”  For more, click here.  UBS Sued by U.S. Regulator for $1.1 Billion in Faulty MBS Sales  UBS AG (UBS)  is being sued by the U.S. regulator of credit unions
for improper sales of $1.1 billion in faulty securities that
contributed to two firm failures, the National Credit Union
Administration said.  The lawsuit accuses the UBS Securities LLC unit of the
Zurich-based bank with selling residential mortgage-backed
securities that were “all but certain to become delinquent or
default” soon after the sale, according to NCUA’s  complaint 
dated Sept. 6. Two wholesale credit unions -- U.S. Central
Federal Credit Union and Western Corporate Federal Credit Union  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  