-- U.K. Cigarette Companies Decline on Smoking Rules: London Mover
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-09-07T16:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/u-k-cigarette-companies-decline-on-smoking-rules-london-mover.html
British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and
 Imperial Tobacco  Group Plc, Europe’s two largest cigarette
makers, fell today in London after reports that Russia and
France plan to impose greater restrictions on smokers.  BAT, the maker of Dunhill cigarettes, declined 2 percent to
3,173.5 pence, the lowest price since June 18, while Imperial,
which makes the Davidoff brand, dropped 3.5 percent to 2,262
pence, the lowest since Jan. 26.  France’s health minister will unveil a plan to remove
branding from cigarette packs in coming weeks, Le Parisien
reported Sept. 5, without citing anyone. The Russian government
plans to submit a law banning smoking in public places to
Parliament by Nov. 1. The country has the second-largest tobacco
market after  China . BAT had 20.8 percent of eastern Europe’s
cigarette market in 2011, while Imperial had 11.2 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “While we think the market reaction to the recent news
flow on regulation changes is overdone, there is clearly
uncertainty being created,”  David Hayes , an analyst at Nomura,
said in a note to clients today.  The Russian government wants to reduce premature deaths
caused by smoking, Deputy Health Minister Sergei Velmiaikin said
Sept. 3. The world’s first plain-pack law is due to take effect
in Australia Dec. 1, and governments in  New Zealand  and the U.K.
are considering similar legislation.  Imperial Tobacco, based in Bristol,  England , fell for
a fourth consecutive day, for a year-to-date decline of
7.1 percent. BAT, based in London, has advanced 3.9 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  