-- U.K. July Industrial Production Surges Most in 25 Years: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-07T11:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/u-k-industrial-output-jumps-most-in-25-years-on-jubilee-rebound.html
U.K.  industrial production  surged in
July by the most in 25 years as manufacturing rebounded from the
disruption caused by the extra public holiday for the Queen’s
Jubilee.  Production rose 2.9 percent, the most since February 1987,
after falling 2.4 percent in June, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in  London . The median forecast of 28
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 1.5
percent. In  Germany , industrial output unexpectedly increased
1.3 percent, separate data showed.  The U.K. surge indicates some strength in the economy after
it shrank 0.5 percent in the second quarter, partly due to the
jubilee holiday. Still, while gauges of services and
manufacturing improved in August, the Bank of England has said
the outlook is “unusually uncertain,” and economists forecast
that it will expand stimulus again later this year.  “It looks like the bounceback is going to be a bit
stronger, and you can be much more confident that there will be
positive growth in the third quarter,” said  Ross Walker , an
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “It’s still a
fairly fragile recovery. The Bank of England may still deliver
more quantitative easing.”  The U.K. report also showed that  factory output  increased
3.2 percent in July from June, the biggest gain in 10 years. The
increase, which also exceeded economists’ median forecast,
followed a 2.9 percent drop the previous month.  ‘Positive Start’  Out of 13 categories in manufacturing, 11 rose and two
declined in July from the previous month. The gain was led by
basic metals and metal products, as well as transport equipment.
From a year earlier, manufacturing fell 0.5 percent, while
industrial production dropped 0.8 percent.  “These figures mark a very positive start to the third
quarter for the manufacturing sector,” said Nida Ali, an
economist at Ernst & Young’s ITEM Club. “Having said that, the
euro-zone crisis continues to cast a sizeable shadow.”  European stocks rose today, extending yesterday’s biggest
rally in a month, as investors awaited a U.S. report on payrolls
and unemployment. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 0.4
percent, taking its gain this week to 2.5 percent after the
 European Central Bank  announced an unlimited bond-purchase
program to calm the region’s debt crisis.  U.S. Payrolls  U.S. payrolls probably rose at a slower pace in August,
keeping unemployment in the U.S. above 8 percent, economists
said before the jobs report. An additional 130,000 workers were
taken on last month following a 163,000 increase in July,
according to a Bloomberg survey. The jobless rate may have held
at 8.3 percent, the survey showed. The Labor Department’s report
is due at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington .  In the U.K., the statistics office said revisions to
industrial-production data are estimated to add 0.05 percentage
points to  gross domestic product  in the first quarter, when the
economy shrank 0.3 percent. They will have a “minimal impact”
on the second quarter. The ONS also published producer-price
data for August showing that  factory output prices  rose 0.5
percent from July. Input prices rose 2 percent.  The  Bank of England  cut its forecasts for the economy last
month, while the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development lowered its U.K. outlook yesterday. The OECD said
GDP will fall 0.7 percent this year instead of the previously
predicted increase of 0.5 percent.  While the central bank kept its bond-purchase target at 375
billion pounds ($599 billion) yesterday, economists forecast
that it will expand stimulus by 25 billion pounds before the end
of the year, according to the median projection in a Bloomberg
survey.  German Strength  In Germany, trade data today showed that  exports 
unexpectedly increased 0.5 percent in July from June, when they
fell 1.4 percent. Economists forecast a 0.5 percent decline,
according to the median of 12 estimates in a survey. Imports
gained 0.9 percent.  The German industrial production report showed output of
investment goods increased 3.8 percent in July, while
construction activity rose 1.9 percent. Overall production fell
1.4 percent from a year earlier when adjusted for working days.  In the Asia-Pacific region today,  Australia  recorded a
wider-than-estimated  trade deficit  in July. Malaysian exports
unexpectedly fell 1.9 percent in July from a year earlier after
a 5.4 percent gain the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  