-- U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for Sept. 6 to Nov. 30 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-09-07T12:52:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-sept-6-to-nov-30-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - Drought continues to cover a large
portion of the country in early September, but beneficial rains
finally brought improvement to a significant part of this area.
Heavy, beneficial rains, primarily from the remnants of
Hurricane Isaac, fell on much of the Mississippi and lower Ohio
Valleys during the last 2 weeks. Parts of  Arkansas ,  Missouri ,
eastern  Kansas , and  Illinois  recorded over 5 inches of rain, and
amounts reached as high as 10 inches in isolated locations.
Elsewhere, moderate to heavy rains also fell on portions of the
mid-Atlantic, and isolated sites in  Arizona  received 2 or more
inches of rain. The seasonal decline in temperatures over the
next 3 months will substantially reduce surface water lost to
evaporation and vegetative growth. Furthermore, precipitation
tends to fall at a more moderate rate over a longer period of
time, which recharges soil moisture efficiently. Snowfall
similarly holds moisture that seeps slowly into the soil as it
melts. These factors, along with anticipated precipitation
patterns at least partially driven by the developing El Nino
episode, should bring some relief to drought-affected areas in
the East, the  Mississippi  Valley, the Midwest, and the northern
Great Plains. The odds also favor some degree of improvement
across a large swath of the Southwest and across southern Texas.
Still, there remains a large area covering the central and
southern Plains, the central and northern Rockies, the central
Intermountain West, and much of  California  where drought
conditions are expected to persist. Most of these areas are
moving toward a climatologically drier time of year, and there
is no compelling indication that substantially above-normal
precipitation will fall during the next 3 months.  Tools used in the U.S. Drought Outlook (USDO) included the
official CPC temperature and precipitation outlooks for
September 2012 and the long lead forecast for September through
November 2012, various medium- and short-range forecasts and
models such as the 6-10 day and 8-14 day forecasts, the most
recent 384-hour GFS total precipitation amounts, the soil
moisture tools based on the Constructed Analog on Soil (CAS)
moisture, the Climate Forecast System (CFS, versions 1 and 2),
the four-month Palmer drought termination and amelioration
probabilities, climatology, and initial conditions. In addition,
El Nino conditions are expected to evolve during this time
period, so precipitation patterns typically observed during such
events were also considered.  Improvement is expected in most drought-affected areas in the
East. Climatologically, temperatures progressively decrease
during September - November, reducing surface water lost to
evaporation and vegetative growth. In addition, when
precipitation occurs in autumn, it tends to fall more moderately
for longer periods of time, at least in central and northern
parts of the region. This more efficiently recharges soil
moisture than brief, heavy thunderstorms. For these reasons,
drought conditions are expected to ease by the end of November.
Relief is expected to be more limited in and near central
 Georgia , where autumn is climatologically drier than other times
of year. The seasonal precipitation forecast favors enhanced
precipitation for autumn as a whole in western Georgia, but this
is not the case farther east. Forecast confidence for the East
is high.  From the High Plains eastward through the Ohio Valley, prospects
for improvement generally increase toward eastern and northern
sections of the region, although some improvement is also
expected in southern  Texas . Along the northern tier, there is no
compelling reason to expect significantly above-normal
precipitation during the period, but the climatological decline
in temperatures, as well as increasing chances of snowfall,
means that what precipitation does fall should efficiently
improve moisture deficits, easing impacts. Only limited
improvement is expected in the western Great Lakes region, where
some indicators and El Nino considerations favor abnormally low
soil moisture at the end of November. Farther east, along the
Mississippi and Ohio Valleys, many locations should receive
moderate to heavy precipitation during the first five days of
the period. There are also some indicators that imply above-
normal precipitation for the period as a whole, though not
strongly enough to show up in the seasonal forecast except in
the lower Mississippi Valley. In contrast, in areas farther west
- across the High Plains and the central and southern reaches of
the Great Plains - no drought relief is forecast.
Climatologically, this region progresses toward their drier time
of year during autumn, reducing the prospects for heavy
precipitation and resultant drought relief. Also, some dynamic
models lean toward near- to below-normal precipitation during
this already dry time of year, further reducing chances for
relief. Forecast confidence from the Plains eastward through the
Ohio Valley is moderate.  Across the large region of drought from the Rockies westward,
improvement is expected in the Southwest, extending north and
east toward the central Rockies. Official forecasts favor above-
normal precipitation in the middle to later parts of September,
as well as for the month as a whole. The September - November
outlook also shows enhanced chances for above-normal
precipitation in central and southern parts of this region.
However, no relief is in sight for the other drought-affected
areas from the Rockies westward. Normal precipitation declines
as autumn progresses in the Rockies, reducing prospects for
drought-relieving precipitation. Farther west, this is neither a
dry nor wet time of year, but it seems likely that near- to
below-normal precipitation will fall during the rest of
September, and considering the range of precipitation values
observed historically during October and November, it is
unlikely that enough precipitation will fall to bring noticeable
drought improvement. Forecast confidence from the Rockies
westward is high in the Southwest and moderate elsewhere.  In  Hawaii , autumn progresses towards the wetter time of year.
However, the long-lead forecast indicates enhanced chances for
below-normal rainfall for autumn as a whole. As a result,
drought is expected to persist in existing areas and slowly
expand into other parts of the state, much like the previous
Drought Outlook. Still, the fact that the Islands are getting
climatologically wetter during the period does imply that the
chances for drought-relieving rains improve later in the period,
even if only based on climatology. Forecast confidence for
Hawaii is low.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  