-- Hu Says China’s Growth Is Facing ‘Notable Downward Pressure’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-09T01:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/hu-says-china-growth-is-facing-notable-downward-pressure-1-.html
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  said a
slowdown in exports is putting downward pressure on the world’s
second-biggest economy, and he pledged to boost domestic demand
and promote more balanced growth.  “Economic growth is facing notable downward pressure, some
small and medium enterprises are facing a hard time and
exporters are facing more difficulties,” Hu said yesterday at
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation CEO Summit in Vladivostok,
 Russia . “We have an arduous task of creating jobs for new
entrants to the  labor force .”  The slowdown is increasing pressure on Hu as  China  tries to
ensure a smooth once-a-decade transition of power to a new
generation of leaders at a Communist Party Congress this year.
 Europe ’s debt crisis and anemic U.S. growth may hinder a rebound
in exports while at home a slump in earnings is deterring
companies from spending and banks face rising bad debts.  “The Chinese government has been trying to reduce the
share of investments as a share of GDP and in the meantime
accelerate private consumption,”  Jing Ulrich , Hong Kong-based
chairman of global markets for China at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
said in an interview in Vladivostok. “But here comes more
stimulus, mainly targeted at fiscal spending and infrastructure.
What does this mean for the rebalancing of the overall growth
drivers for the economy?”  Slowest Expansion  Asia ’s biggest economy expanded 7.6 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in three years,
after the government moved to counter inflation and surging
property prices in the wake of a 2009 stimulus. Exports in July
rose 1 percent from a year earlier and shipments in the first
seven months rose 7.8 percent, compared with a 23.4 percent rise
in the same period in 2011.  UBS AG and ING Groep NV cut their full-year forecasts on
Sept. 7 for economic expansion to 7.5 percent, which would be
the slowest pace in 22 years.  “They’ve screamed from the rooftops for three years they
are trying to slow things down to kill inflation and to kill the
property bubble,”  Jim Rogers , chairman of Singapore-based
Rogers Holdings, said in a Sept. 7 interview in Vladivostok.
“Now it’s happened.”  The deceleration in China’s economic growth will probably
extend into a seventh quarter, with ING estimating a slowdown to
7.1 percent and Bank of America Corp. projecting 7.4 percent for
the three months ending September.  Industrial Output  Data due today may show industrial output growth slowed to
9 percent in August from a year earlier, the slowest pace this
year, according to the median  estimate  in a Bloomberg News
survey of 35 economists. Exports last month probably rose 2.9
percent from a year earlier, according to a separate survey
before a Sept. 10 report. Overseas shipments climbed 24.5
percent in August last year.  The government is expected to announce a package of
measures to support exports this month, the  China Daily  reported
yesterday, citing two unnamed sources from the Ministry of
Commerce. Trade figures for August “are not positive and not
encouraging,” the paper cited the sources as saying.  In his speech yesterday, Hu said  China’s economy  was
characterized by a “lack of balance, coordination and
sustainability” and that the country would promote “inclusive
growth” to improve people’s lives. Hu and Canadian Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper  signed an agreement today to protect
foreign investors in their respective countries, a deal that
Harper said would “create jobs and economic growth in  Canada .”  Inequality Measure  China’s Gini coefficient, a measure of inequality, has
risen more than any other Asian economy in the last two decades,
Murtaza Syed, the International Monetary Fund’s resident
representative in Beijing, said in February. The government
hasn’t released an overall Gini figure since 2000 although  Bo
Xilai , the ousted former Communist Party secretary of Chongqing,
said in March it had exceeded 0.46, above the point that
triggers social unrest.  “The route we’ve taken is to allow a portion of the
population to grow wealthy before everyone else,” China
Construction Bank Corp. Chairman Wang Hongzhang said in a panel
discussion at the APEC summit yesterday. “By 2050 we hope to
have a society where a large part of the population can share in
that equitably.”  International Investors  Hu’s standing with international investors has suffered
ahead of the leadership change later this year. In a quarterly
Bloomberg Global Poll published Sept. 7, two in five voiced
pessimism about the impact of his policies on the investment
climate in China. That’s up from less than one in three in May
and is the highest negative reading since the poll began asking
that question two years ago.  China on Sept. 5 and 6 announced approvals for
infrastructure spending to support growth as Europe’s debt
crisis crimps exports and a property crackdown damps domestic
demand. The National Development & Reform Commission, the top
planning agency, gave the go-ahead for construction of 2,018
kilometers (1,254 miles) of roads and subway projects in 18
cities. Nomura Holdings Inc. estimated the total value of
projects approved at about 1 trillion  yuan  ($158 billion).  Chinese shares surged on the news, with the benchmark
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  closing 3.7 percent higher on Sept. 7,
the biggest advance since Jan. 17.  Infrastructure Focus  By focusing on infrastructure to boost growth, Hu and
Premier  Wen Jiabao  may risk exacerbating the imbalances they
have pledged to combat.  Spending on roads, bridges, subways and other public-works
projects surged in 2009 and 2010 as much of a 4 trillion yuan
stimulus, and an unprecedented expansion in bank lending, was
directed toward local government projects. That led to a rise in
debt at the local level to at least 10.7 trillion yuan as of
2010, according to an official audit.  “The unintended consequences of this are legion,”  Tim Condon , chief Asia economist at ING in  Singapore , wrote in a
Sept. 7 note, referring to the infrastructure spending. “They
include corruption scandals -- for example, the railways
minister was sacked and expelled from the Party over corruption
charges -- poor quality construction -- the collapse of a
section of the Yangmingtan bridge in Harbin city is emblematic -
- and stretched local government finances.”  Ma Kai, a State Councilor and general secretary of the
State Council, China’s Cabinet that’s headed by Premier Wen
Jiabao, said yesterday that the nation’s economic growth is
sustainable and has “great potential.”  “We will turn the huge potential demand of 1.3 billion
residents into real demand,” he said at an international
investment forum in the eastern city of Xiamen. “I believe the
unprecedentedly large and rapidly growing China market will
bring more opportunities to foreign investors.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  