-- UEFA May Start Company to Meet Sales Promise to National Teams
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-09-07T12:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/uefa-may-start-company-to-meet-sales-promise-to-national-teams.html
European soccer’s governing body
may create a separate company to meet a promise made to its
member federations to raise $1.5 billion from the sale of
qualification matches to Euro 2016 and the 2018  World Cup .  UEFA  took control of national team matches involving its 53
member nations for the first time after striking a deal with
each federation that ensured higher revenue than under previous
agreements. The Nyon, Switzerland-based organization is
exploring the option of creating its own company to sell the
rights rather than strike a deal with established sports rights
agencies, UEFA’s marketing director Guy-Laurent Epstein said.  “There are benefits to do it internally and to do it
externally,” Epstein said in a telephone interview, confirming
the discussions. “I think it’s a bit premature to weigh any
particular directions. I think it will come to a conclusion in
the coming weeks.”  UEFA’s plan to sell all rights centrally comes at a time
when free-to-air television networks face budget cuts because of
the continuing difficulties in the European economy. Last week,
the organization’s president  Michel Platini  said UEFA would meet
its commitments even though analysts have suggested it may face
a shortfall of as much as 400 million euros ($510 million).  “UEFA wants control of the project and it wants financial
guarantees,” said Frank Dunne, editor of TV Sports Markets.
“Who out there is in a position to put up the kind of money to
underwrite this project? It would be surprise if any single
company would underwrite this.”  Contingency Plans  If UEFA fails to achieve its goal, the governing body would
have to dip into its 500 million-euro cash reserve. Some of the
larger national federations have said such a move would mean
money that normally goes to smaller associations for development
would be redirected to them, going against the spirit of the
centralization program which was designed to boost broadcast
revenue for lower tier soccer nations.  Instead, the English F.A. has suggested UEFA keep the sales
rights for the host country broadcasts, and hand back so-called
second and third party rights to federations. That would allow
national associations to sell television rights directly to
foreign broadcasters while UEFA retains control of the major
agreements.  “There’s no way we’d go back to the national associations
and review it,” said Epstein.  More Qualifiers  One of the problems UEFA faces is in assuring broadcasters
of the competitiveness of qualification matches for its Euro
2016 event. The tournament, which will be held in  France , is
being broadened to include 24 countries, meaning almost half of
 Europe ’s national teams will qualify.  One option UEFA is considering is offering the top
qualifiers the highest seeding in tournament groups. That would
give an advantage to teams that field their best players even
after qualification.  “It’s true that the qualification could be question
mark,” said Epstein. “We have to try at least to make sure the
system pushes people to play until the end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in the London newsroom on 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 