-- Hungary Needs IMF Aid, Disputes Conditions, Orban Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-09-07T14:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/hungary-needs-imf-aid-disputes-conditions-orban-says.html
Hungary  needs and will obtain a
 credit line  from the  International Monetary Fund  even as the
government opposes the conditions currently demanded for the
aid, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said.  “Safety is worth very much to us, that’s why we need an
IMF deal,” Orban said in an interview with state-run Kossuth
radio today. “I think it’s necessary, it will happen, we will
strike a deal -- but not on this basis.”  Orban yesterday rejected what he said were the Washington-
based lender’s criteria -- including pension cuts and the
elimination of a bank tax -- a day after he predicted an accord
may come in the autumn. The forint fell the most this year
yesterday before paring losses and then rising today.  Hungarian media reports about the purported conditions of
the IMF contain “significant inaccuracies,” the MTI state news
service reported, citing Iryna Ivaschenko, the Washington-based
lender’s representative in Budapest.  Hungary has reversed its approach to the IMF several times
since Orban came to power in 2010 on a pledge to end austerity.
As his self-described “unorthodox” economic policies helped
push the economy into a recession and the country’s credit grade
to junk status, Orban reached out to the lender and formally
requested aid in November 2011.  Tough Job  “I can’t imagine a tougher job at the IMF right now than
trying to negotiate a financial program with the Hungarian
authorities -- except perhaps trying to figure out what to do
with  Greece ,”  Benoit Anne , a former IMF economist who is now
head of emerging-markets strategy at Societe Generale SA in
 London , said in an e-mail.  The forint dropped as much as 1.7 percent against the euro
yesterday, when  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi ’s
announcement of plans to buy the government bonds of crisis-
stricken euro-area members lifted other currencies in the
region, including the Polish zloty, which rose 1.3 percent
against the euro. The forint rose 0.7 percent to 284.94 per euro
at 4:13 p.m. in Budapest, snapping a two-day drop.  ‘Increasingly Difficult’  “This is looking increasingly more difficult to
materialize,”  Luis Costa , a London-based strategist at
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , said by e-mail. “Orban once again managed to
unleash a cycle of underperformance in Hungarian assets.”  The government’s efforts to protect a 300 billion-forint
($1.3 billion) payroll tax-cut plan for 2013, aimed at jump-
starting the economy in the face of IMF and European Union
criticism, is at the heart of the dispute over the loan
conditions, Orban said today. The Cabinet also opposes demands
to cut pensions and take away family benefits, he said.  The government maintains it has enough resources in the
budget to fund the jobs plan, while the international lenders
say the measures threaten efforts to reduce the  budget deficit ,
Orban said.  “At this cost we don’t want a deal,” Orban said.  The ECB’s euro-area bond-purchase plan may also show that
new tools are available for authorities outside the common
currency area, Orban said, without elaborating.  ‘Do Everything’  Hungary’s government “needs to do everything” to reach an
aid agreement, Antal Rogan, the parliamentary leader of Orban’s
Fidesz party, said today after a three-day party meeting in
Sarvar, western Hungary.  The Cabinet should take into account IMF and EU policy
proposals and should be open to modify the 2013 budget, which
legislators will continue to discuss next week in Parliament,
Rogan said in comments broadcast on HirTV.  The ruling party backs “targeted” spending cuts, such as
for the reduction of state bureaucracy, while rejecting the
trimming of pensions or scrapping plans for payroll tax cuts,
Rogan said.  The forint rose 9.7 percent against the euro this year, the
third-most in the world after the Chilean and Colombian pesos as
investors speculated that an IMF agreement was within reach. The
rally may have emboldened Orban to turn away from the lender,
while forint losses last November, in January and in June
prompted the government to work toward a compromise.  ‘Freedom Fight’  Negotiations with the IMF during a review of a previous
loan and a possible extension broke down months after Orban came
to power in 2010. Orban then said Hungary was better off without
the lender as it needed policy space to conduct an “economic
freedom fight.”  The country can get by without additional foreign-currency
funding until about March or April next year, said  Gyula Toth ,
who helps manage 220 million euros ($278 million) at Ithuba
Capital in Vienna.  The forint plunged 15 percent, the most in the world, in
the second half of last year as policies including the
nationalization of private pension funds and the decision to
force banks to swallow losses on foreign-currency loans damaged
investor confidence, cut investments and helped push the economy
into a recession.  Hungary’s  industrial output  plunged in July as car
production slowed, confirming a trend that drove the economy
into a deeper recession than previously estimated.  Industry, GDP  Industrial output dropped a workday-adjusted 2.2 percent in
July from a year earlier and fell 1.2 percent from June, the
statistics office in Budapest said today. The median estimate of
10 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for an increase of 0.7
percent.  Gross domestic product  declined 1.3 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, compared with a 1.2 percent
preliminary estimate, the stats office said in a separate
release today.  Production declined in the second quarter from the same
period last year in every industry except information and
communications. Construction output plunged 10.7 percent while
agricultural production dropped 10.4 percent. Final consumption
dropped 1.8 percent in the second quarter.  Orban asked for aid in November as the country’s credit
grade was cut to junk at  Standard & Poor’s ,  Fitch Ratings  and
Moody’s Investors Service, and debt auctions failed, helping
push the forint to a record low against the euro. The government
earlier said it may reach a loan agreement by the end of
October.  Hungary’s request for a loan of about 15 billion euros was
delayed multiple times because of Orban’s resistance to adhere
to legal and economic conditions set by the lender and the EU.  ‘Slow Further’  A month after seeking assistance, Orban said Hungary can do
without IMF aid, recommitting to negotiations two weeks later
with the forint at a record low. Negotiations formally started
in July following an eight-month delay after the government
compromised on a central-bank law that the European Central Bank
said undermined monetary-policy independence.  “The turn suggests that negotiations may slow further,
albeit we do not expect a break-up in the talks, given that
keeping alive market hopes about a future deal is in the
interest of the government to ensure” local-currency funding,
 Eszter Gargyan , a Budapest-based economist at Citigroup Inc.,
said in an e-mailed note yesterday. “The political turn may be
negative to Hungarian assets, which we expect to underperform in
the coming weeks.”  Facebook Message  The Washington-based lender asked Hungary to scrap a bank
tax in exchange for the loan, which wouldn’t serve the nation’s
interests, Orban said in a video message from a retreat of his
ruling party in Sarvar, near the Austrian border, posted on his
page at the social media website  Facebook Inc. (FB)  Iryna Ivaschenko
the IMF’s representative in Hungary, wasn’t available for
comment yesterday.  “The meeting of the parliamentary group decided, and I
myself share their opinion, that at this cost we don’t need
it,” Orban said. He said he would “seek an alternative
negotiating proposal,” without elaborating.  Orban won an unprecedented two-thirds parliamentary
majority in the 2010 elections. Even as his support has slipped,
his ruling party, Fidesz, has maintained a lead over the
opposition more than halfway through the premier’s four-year
term.  Fidesz had 17 percent support among eligible voters,
compared with 14 percent for the Socialist Party, its nearest
rival, state news service MTI reported Aug. 23, citing the
polling company Ipsos. The survey of 1,500 adults was carried
out between Aug. 12 and Aug. 19 and has a margin of error of 2.5
percentage points, MTI said.  Hungary should move away from “ad hoc” taxes to plug
budget holes and should create a more “business friendly”
environment to boost growth and make budget financing
sustainable, the IMF said in a July 26 statement after holding
what it called a week of “constructive” talks in Budapest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  