-- Existing Mexican Home Sales Surge as New Ones Shunned: Mortgages
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-09-07T13:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/urban-sprawl-triggers-mexico-s-turn-to-existing-homes-mortgages.html
Laura Romero’s four-year-old son
attends pre-school and her husband works at a  Mexico  City soda
maker, so location was a top priority as they shopped for a home
in the Western Hemisphere’s most populous metropolitan area.
That’s why they shunned new developments.  “You find better locations” in the existing home market,
Romero, a 38-year-old homemaker, said by phone from the Mexican
capital. “It was better priced than a new home, and we’ve had
the opportunity to remodel and make it the way we wanted.”  Mexicans are reversing course on more than a decade of
urban sprawl in their capital city, choosing closer-in used
properties as lending growth accompanies an economy that’s
expanding at twice the pace of the U.S. Mortgages on existing
homes climbed to 34 percent of the total in June, up from 27
percent in 2011 and 22 percent in 2007, according to data
tracked by Infonavit, the nation’s biggest housing lender,
responsible for about 75 percent of all home loans.  That’s sustaining lending in Mexico even as it  exacerbates 
the slump for builders. Home construction companies were two of
the three worst-performing stocks this year on the nation’s
benchmark  IPC (MEXBOL)  stock index. Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB, the
third-largest by sales, has plummeted 61 percent, while
Desarrolladora Homex SAB and Corp. Geo SAB, the first and
second-largest, have retreated 36 percent and 18 percent this
year, respectively.  Increasingly Attractive  Reducing the cost and time of commuting makes better-
located existing homes increasingly attractive, said  Carlos Hermosillo , an equity analyst covering builders for Grupo
Financiero Banorte SAB.  “At the end of the day it’s a very competitive product,”
Hermosillo said by phone from Mexico City. Existing homes are
“in more central urban areas than what a new home offers you.
They also have other advantages including services and total
space, despite the fact that it might not be in perfect
condition,” he said.  Romero, whose family paid 2.2 million pesos ($168,000) for
a 3-bedroom, 200-square meter (2,152-square foot) house in
Satelite, a middle-class neighborhood in the northern metro
area, said that if they had bought a new home, they would have
had to settle for an apartment in a more remote suburb.  “I have shopping centers and schools nearby,” Romero
said. The existing home “gave us room to be able to put enough
money into the home so that it ended up exactly the way we
wanted it.”  At Romero’s home, a terrace overlooks her garden and the
main bedroom is equipped with a private bathroom and dressing
area.  Urban Growth  Mexican towns are pouring into one another, with the Mexico
City metropolitan area expanding in area by 3.6 times between
1980 and 2010, according to a 2011  report  from the Social
Development Ministry. In the same period, the population
increased just 1.4 times to 20.1 million people. The central
Mexican cities of Queretaro and Toluca multiplied in area by 16
times and 26 times, respectively, in the past 30 years,
according to the government.  The housing boom of the 2000s spawned three initial public
offerings by builders in 2003 and 2004 and a subsequent
industrywide rally that ended in 2007’s collapse. The  Habita (HABITA) 
index of six Mexican homebuilders has dropped 80 percent in the
five years through yesterday. The gauge rose 0.5 percent at 8:42
a.m. in Mexico City trading.  Demand Decline  The increasing availability of previously-owned home
options is supporting consumers even as builders struggle from a
decline in demand, said Ariel Cano, head of Mexico’s National
Housing Commission.  “The need for a home doesn’t exclusively imply the need
for a new property,” Cano said in a July 31 phone interview
from Mexico City. “For developers, that might imply an
adjustment of their growth expectations. That’s the main micro
problem for these companies.”  All three of Mexico’s biggest homebuilders posted negative
free  cash flow  to equity in the first half of the year, a sign
that the businesses are spending money faster than they’re
taking it in, said Banorte’s Hermosillo. Free cash flow to
equity measures cash left for equity holders after costs,
investments and debt payments.  Gerardo Copca, an analyst with research company Metanalisis
SA, said it’s unlikely existing home sales will continue taking
market share from the new market because of the shortage of
housing.  Housing Shortage  Mexico’s government estimates a housing deficit of nine
million families without a home or living in substandard
conditions.  The increase in existing home sales is “temporary,” Copca
said by phone from Mexico City. “The housing deficit in Mexico
is still high, even if there’s more offer today.”  Mexican mortgage lending climbed 6.3 percent in the first
half of 2012 to 287,000 credits, according to data compiled by
the local unit of  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)  Creditors
provided 114.8 billion pesos ($8.75 billion) in mortgages in the
period, according to BBVA Bancomer, as the Mexico City-based
unit is known.  The Mexican economy will grow 3.8 percent in 2012, almost
double the 2.2 percent pace for the U.S., according to the
median forecasts in separate Bloomberg surveys. The nation’s
central bank has held the key rate a record low 4.5 percent
since 2009.  Developer Urbi’s Chief Financial Officer Selene Avalos said
the company is considering ways to turn the growing used housing
market into an “opportunity,” including by helping resell
abandoned homes in its communities.  ‘Community Problem’  Those homes “should be put back on the market,” Avalos
said in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s Mexico City
office. “An unoccupied home is a problem for the community.”  Benchmark dollar borrowing costs for Homex, Corp. Geo and
Urbi have jumped an average of 127 basis points, or 1.27
percentage point, in the past two months. Yields on Urbi’s
dollar bonds due in 2020 soared 217 basis points in the period,
the most of the three.  Homebuyers in Mexico will keep shifting preference to
existing properties until the country increases the availability
of services outside its cities, Alfredo Viegas, a managing
director for  emerging markets  at  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , said
by phone from Greenwich,  Connecticut .  “What we’re seeing here is just simply the fact of buyer
revolt against moving that far away from their places of
employment,” Viegas said. “You probably need a more
significant upgrade in the infrastructure to allow the suburbs
and exurbs to flourish, because the infrastructure’s not exactly
up to par.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net . 