-- Van Rompuy Calls Mexico Preachy as EU Seeks Former Luster
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-09-07T15:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/van-rompuy-calls-mexico-preachy-as-europe-seeks-to-regain-luster.html
European Union President Herman  Van Rompuy  said he has had enough of “countries like  Mexico ”
telling him how to resolve the euro area’s sovereign-debt
crisis.  “I’m fed up with being in the dock,” Van Rompuy said
today at a European political party meeting in Florence,  Italy .
“Countries like Mexico -- I don’t want to be unpleasant and
mention other countries -- but other countries like Mexico are
preaching to us and telling us what we should do in  Europe . And
these countries have got civil war at home.”  European leaders are renewing efforts to present a unified
front after more than two years of crisis talks and failed
remedies for the region’s debt turmoil. They are rallying behind
European Central Bank PresidentMario Draghi and his plan,
announced yesterday, to buy sovereign bonds issued by distressed
governments in the 17-nation euro area.  At a June Group of 20 summit in Mexico, Europe received an
ultimatum to step up its fight against the financial crisis,
with Mexican President  Felipe Calderon  saying his nation was
ready to help “Europe overcome the problems currently being
faced and to prevent similar events from recurring.” Calderon
made the comments after meeting with Van Rompuy and European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  at the summit.  Barroso countered at the time that Europe’s leaders had
“not come here to receive lessons” on democracy or the
economy.  ‘Existential Threat’  While Van Rompuy today singled out Mexico, which has
suffered more than 47,000 deaths in a five-year war against drug
cartels, he said crisis-fighting suggestions have come in from
around the world.        “They all know what we should be doing in the euro zone,” 
Van Rompuy said. Acknowledging that the protracted battle to 
safeguard the euro “damages our  world position ,” he said: “We 
need to get away as quickly as possible from this existential 
threat.”  Mexico is the EU’s 20th-biggest trading partner, according
to  EU data , while the EU is Mexico’s third-largest, behind the
U.S. and  China . Shipments to Europe from Mexico totalled 16.3
billion euros ($20.8 billion) last year and accounted for 1
percent of the EU’s total 2011 imports. EU exports to Mexico
accounted for 1.6 percent of the 27-nation bloc’s shipments
abroad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  