-- Vietnam Has No Plans to Seek IMF Loan to Resolve Bad Debt
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-07T17:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/vietnam-has-no-plans-to-seek-imf-loan-to-resolve-bad-debt.html
Vietnam  has no intention to borrow
from the  International Monetary Fund  to resolve bad debt at the
country’s lenders, a central bank official said after a
parliamentary committee report cited the option this week.  “Vietnam has no reason to seek loans from the IMF” given
that the country’s macroeconomic situation is stable, Deputy
Governor Le Minh Hung said in comments posted on the
government’s website late yesterday. The State Bank of Vietnam
hasn’t discussed loans with the IMF, he said.  A Sept. 4 National Assembly  economic committee report 
suggested Vietnam should consider seeking IMF aid to restructure
its banks, saying the country risks “prolonged stagnation” if
it doesn’t fix its bad debt woes soon,  Bloomberg News  reported
earlier this week. The financial system needs an injection of
250 trillion dong ($12 billion) to 300 trillion dong, according
to the 298-page document that included recommendations to
address economic threats.  Vietnamese officials and Alfred Schipke, the IMF’s newly
appointed mission chief to Vietnam, met this week during a
courtesy visit, Hung said. Both the IMF and the government felt
Vietnam’s macroeconomic situation has taken positive steps
toward stability, Hung said.  “We are not so desperate yet that we would need an
imminent rescue loan from the IMF,” Nguyen Duc Kien, deputy
head of the committee that published the report, said by phone
Sept. 6. “This is just one of the recommendations to the
government in case it’s needed.”  Policy Recommendations  Apart from the suggestion for Vietnam to seek an IMF loan
to restructure the banking system, which was mentioned in pages
178 and 181 of the report in a section on policy recommendations,
the National Assembly committee’s compilation also recommended
other funding sources such as selling  government bonds  with
three- to five-year maturities, trimming state spending and
drawing funds or investments from foreign companies.  Both the IMF and the Vietnamese government assessed that
the country’s macroeconomic situation has improved, especially
in terms of its  trade balance  and current-account balance, Hung
said. The balance of payments is in surplus, foreign exchange
reserves are rising, and market confidence has strengthened, he
said. IMF lending is meant for countries that have temporary
difficulties in their balance of payments, he said.  Tycoon’s Arrest  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung’s government is trying to
regain confidence in Vietnam after the arrest of a banking
tycoon last month highlighted the frailty of a financial system
hobbled by  Southeast Asia ’s highest bad debt levels. Growth
slowed to 4.4 percent in the first half of this year from 8.5
percent in 2007 as lending stagnated, damping state revenue and
crimping the country’s ability to rescue banks.  Vietnam’s government needs to solve its banking woes before
the situation worsens, Gareth Leather, an economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London , said earlier this week. “Credit has
been one of the main drivers of the economy and you’re not going
to see growth return to 7 percent to 8 percent so long as banks
are stuck with this problem.”  Non-performing loans climbed to 4.47 percent of total
lending as of May 31, from 3.07 percent at the end of 2011,
according to central bank data.  State Bank  of Vietnam Governor
Nguyen Van Binh said in April that the level of non-performing
loans at some lenders may be “much higher” than reported
figures, with Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. estimating as much as
20 percent of debts may be bad.  Foreign Funding  The central bank should set up a company to buy bad debt
using foreign funding, the parliamentary panel said in this
week’s report, which was funded by the United Nations
Development Programme. Cross-ownership of banks are at
“alarming levels” and lending based on relationships have led
to rising non-performing loans and need to be promptly dealt
with, according to the report.  The central bank hasn’t officially been presented with the
report by the National Assembly and the recommendations are
“just the committee’s view” for now, Nghiem Xuan Thanh, chief
administrator at the bank, said Sept. 6.  Vietnam had recognized the risks and unveiled plans to
prevent a collapse of its banking system months ago. The country
said in March it would buy bad debt from lenders as the nation
sought to overhaul the industry and cut bad-debt ratios at
state-owned banks to below 3 percent by 2015.  The central bank has also said it’s ready to force mergers
among weak lenders, and Dung has ordered the monetary authority
to “solve” a shortage of funds after the credit crunch forced
thousands of companies out of business.  Nguyen Duc Kien, who helped found Asia Commercial Bank,
Vietnam’s fourth-biggest lender by market value, was arrested in
August, and the central bank said police were investigating
violations at three companies managed by Kien after he allegedly
“conducted business illegally.” That was followed by the
arrest of former Chief Executive Officer Ly Xuan Hai by the
police for alleged economic mismanagement.  Vietnam’s stocks plunged, dragging the benchmark index into
in a  bear market  on Aug. 27 on concern the arrests may signal
further instability in the nation’s financial system.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in Hanoi at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  