-- Worst BRIC Inflation to Stay as Rains Revive Late: India Credit
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2012-09-07T04:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/worst-bric-inflation-to-stay-as-rains-revive-late-india-credit.html
India ’s monsoon has revived too late
to help Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  curb the worst inflation
among the largest  emerging markets , dimming prospects of
interest-rate cuts and threatening  Asia ’s best bond rally.  Standard Chartered  Plc predicts the 10-year government bond
 yield  will rise 33 basis points, or 0.33 percentage point, to
8.50 percent by Sept. 30, while Daiwa Asset Management Co.
forecasts an 8.35 percent rate. Indian debt has returned 6.54
percent this year, beating  South Korea ’s 6.42 percent and
 Indonesia ’s 5.86 percent, HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show.  “Inflation will remain at elevated levels and the revival
in the monsoon won’t help to bring food prices down,” Nagaraj Kulkarni, a Mumbai-based fixed-income strategist at Standard
Chartered, said in a Sept. 5 interview. “The  Reserve Bank  of
India isn’t going to cut rates in a hurry.”  The RBI will keep borrowing costs at the highest level
among major Asian economies at its Sept. 17 policy review, 10 of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg say, while three expect a
reduction. Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has pledged to contain
inflation at the cost of sacrificing some growth. Government
reports show a decline in crop planting even as downpours in
recent weeks helped narrow the rainfall deficit to 10 percent
below the 50-year average from 29 percent at the end of June.  “Rains have improved but were late,” M. Sitaramaswamy,
70, who grows rice on 13 acres in the southern state of  Andhra
Pradesh , said in a telephone interview yesterday. “This has
delayed transplanting of rice paddy and will reduce harvests.”  ‘Distinctly Hawkish’  India, the world’s second-biggest grower of rice and sugar
cane, has seen the area under monsoon-sown crops drop 6 percent
from a year earlier to 95.4 million hectares, the agriculture
ministry said Aug. 31. Planting of rice, oilseeds and cotton
declined from a year earlier, it said.  “The RBI has been distinctly hawkish in talking about the
need for lower inflation,” said Killol Pandya, the Mumbai-based
head of fixed-income investments at the local unit of Daiwa.
“Appetite for bonds is subdued because the outlook for rate
cuts is bleak,” he said in a Sept. 5 telephone interview.  The 10-year yield has dropped to 8.17 percent from this
year’s high of 8.78 percent reached on April 5 as growth in
Asia’s third-largest economy slumped to the slowest pace since
2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The notes offer an  extra 
647 basis points over comparable U.S. Treasuries compared with a
172 basis-point premium for Chinese debt.  Monsoon Season  The rupee has weakened 17 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
in the past year, the worst performance among the 11 major Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The currency rose 0.1 percent
to 55.5850 today.  The June-September monsoon season accounts for more than 70
percent of India’s annual rainfall and is the main source of
irrigation for the nation’s 235 million farmers. Rains revived
last month, easing drought conditions in more than 50 percent of
the country, according to the government’s weather office.  The country received 675.4 millimeters of rainfall from
June 1 to Sept. 5, the  India Meteorological Department  said on
its website. That’s less than the 748.5 millimeters average
considered normal for the period.  Subbarao cut the RBI’s benchmark repurchase rate by 50
basis points in April after growth slowed for the fourth
straight quarter. The rate at which the monetary authority lends
to banks overnight was kept unchanged at the central bank’s
reviews in June and July on concern inadequate rainfall will
fuel the worst  inflation  rate among the so-called BRIC economies
comprising  Brazil ,  Russia , India and  China .  BRIC Inflation  Consumer  prices  in India rose 9.86 percent in July, faster
than the 1.8 percent in China, 5.2 percent in Brazil and 5.6
percent in Russia, data compiled by Bloomberg show. India’s
benchmark Wholesale Price Index rose 6.87 percent and has
remained above the RBI’s 5 percent comfort level since December
2009.  The central bank in July raised its inflation forecast for
the year ending March 31 to 7 percent from 6.5 percent, and
reduced its estimate for growth in gross domestic product to 6.5
percent from 7.3 percent. The revised prediction matched the
previous year’s  expansion .  Gains in wholesale prices have averaged 7.3 percent this
year, data compiled by Bloomberg show, partly because food
inflation accelerated to 10 percent in July compared with
deflation of 0.7 percent in January, according to official data.
Food costs may rise further as farmers want the government to
increase prices at which it buys produce.  Minimum Price  “The government should increase the minimum-support price
as production is going to fall this year,” said Sitaramaswamy
from Andhra Pradesh.  India raised the minimum price of rice to a record 1,250
rupees ($22.4) per 100 kilograms, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said June 14. The government is set to consider a 20
percent increase in the price of mustard seeds to boost output,
two government officials who asked not to be named said Aug. 24.  Higher procurement prices will increase food costs and fuel
inflation expectations, said  Sonal Varma , an economist at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in Mumbai.  “It complicates the RBI’s job,” she said by telephone
yesterday. “Rising minimum prices also add to the fiscal burden
of the government.”  Prime Minister Singh has pledged to reduce the government’s
 budget deficit  to 5.1 percent of GDP this fiscal year from 5.8
percent in the previous 12 months.  Growth Slows  GDP rose 5.5 percent in the three months ended June 30, the
government said Aug. 31. The $1.8 trillion economy expanded 5.3
percent in the previous quarter, the least in three years.  Weak growth and high inflation have increased India’s bond
risk. The cost of insuring the debt of government-controlled
 State Bank of India (SBIN) , which some investors consider a proxy for
the sovereign, climbed 46 basis points in the past 12 months to
333, according to data provider CMA.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to debt agreements. An increase signals worsening
perceptions of creditworthiness. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  “Food prices depend not only on the quantity of rainfall
but its distribution, and that hasn’t been good,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, chief economist at state-owned  Bank of Baroda (BOB)  in
Mumbai, who predicts 7.5 percent to 8.5 percent inflation until
March 2013. “I don’t expect an easing in  interest rates  for
another three months. After that the RBI may cut rates depending
on the inflation scenario.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  