-- Yanzhou Coal Jumps as Stimulus Bets Spur Rally: China Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-09-07T20:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-07/yanzhou-coal-jumps-as-stimulus-bets-spur-rally-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in New York
posted their first weekly gain in a month as the nation’s
infrastructure projects sparked speculation of further stimulus
to boost growth in the world’s second-largest economy.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. advanced 1 percent this week to
88.84.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) ,  China ’s fourth-largest producer,
rallied 7.8 percent yesterday as  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU)  climbed 6.6
percent, the most since the two operators of video-sharing
websites merged on Aug. 24.  New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc. (EDU)  jumped after Morgan Stanley said the shares will
rise.  China approved plans to build 2,018 kilometers (1,254
miles) of roads, stoking prospects the government will step up
efforts to revive growth in the economy, which is expanding at
the slowest pace since 2009. In the U.S., a report showed
payrolls increased less than expected in August, fueling
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will start a third round of
debt-buying under the quantitative-easing stimulus strategy.  “These very significant infrastructure announcements all
go in the right direction of showing investors that more
stimulus may be coming from China’s government,” Christian Deseglise, who helps oversee $426 billion at HSBC Global Asset
Management, said by phone from New York yesterday.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 2.8 percent to $33.66,
the biggest intraday advance since June 29. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.4 percent to 1,437.92,  led  by commodity
and financial stocks.  Road, Subway Projects  A plan to build highways, sewage-treatment plants and other
projects came a day after the National Development & Reform
Commission, the country’s top economic planner, backed  subway
projects in 18 cities. The measures are efforts to ensure that
China’s economic slowdown doesn’t worsen.  Goldman Sachs cut its estimate for China’s 2012 gross
domestic product growth to 7.6 percent from 7.9 percent and
reduced its 2013  forecast  to 8 percent from 8.5 percent,
economists Li Cui,  Yu Song , MK Tang and Yin Zhang wrote in a
Sept. 6 note to clients, citing softer external demand.  The U.S. jobless report comes a week after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called unemployment a “grave concern.” The economy
added 96,000 workers in August, less than a median estimate of
130,000 forecast by 92 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Further
action by the Fed would follow European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi , who said on Aug. 6 that the ECB plans to begin an
unlimited bond-purchase program, aimed at easing the region’s
debt crisis and stabilizing exports from developing nations
including China.  Export Sector  “The export sector in China has been suffering from
weakness in growth in  Europe ,” Deseglise added. “Anything that
lifts clouds there will be good.”  Chinese financial and real estate stocks are likely to
benefit from increased government spending plans after “having
been beaten down in recent months,” Deseglise said.  Hao Hong, Bocom International Holdings Co.’s managing
director for research, cited the government’s infrastructure
spending plans as a catalyst for Chinese equities. The
government is likely to introduce more policies to bolster
economic growth, Hong Kong-based Hong wrote in an e-mail on
Sept. 7.  “Sentiment is depressed and expectation is so low that any
change in expectation alone is enough for a rebound,” Hong
wrote in the e-mail. “Investors should participate in this
tradable rebound.”  New Oriental  Yanzhou rose 12 percent to $14.74 over the past two days,
its biggest such advance since Oct. 27. The Shandong Province-
based coal producer had lost 38 percent this year through Sept.
5 as the price of the commodity declined due to weaker global
demand.  New Oriental, an education services provider, jumped to the
highest in seven weeks as Morgan Stanley forecast the shares
“will rise in absolute terms over the next 60 days.”  American depositary receipts of New Oriental climbed 5.7
percent to $14.79, the highest closing price since July 16. The
Beijing-based company fell 34 percent on July 17 after saying
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission was investigating
its financial statements.  “Although its fundamental value may not be realized in the
near-term due to the ongoing SEC investigation, we believe its
business fundamentals remain sound and the recent share price
weakness offers a buying opportunity,” Philip Wan, an analyst
at Morgan Stanley in  Hong Kong , wrote in an e-mailed report
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  