-- 
Macau’s Lui Bets Big as Ho Family Splinters on Casino Empire

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M e l l o r
-- 
2011-03-08T21:00:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/macau-s-francis-lui-doubles-down-as-ho-family-splinters-over-casino-empire.html
Casino billionaire Francis Lui fakes
a puzzled frown as he poses for a photo shoot behind a mountain
of chips at a baccarat table normally reserved for high rollers
who bet as much as $250,000 a hand.  “Do you want me smiling or poker-faced?” he asks with a
soft baritone laugh that reverberates around the wood-paneled
39th-floor penthouse suite atop his StarWorld Casino in the
Chinese gambling enclave of Macau.  Flanked by willowy hostesses in split-to-the-thigh
cheongsams, the conservatively dressed, bespectacled Lui, 55,
has much to smile about. His family-controlled  Galaxy
Entertainment Group Ltd. (27)  holds one of just six licenses to
operate casinos in the biggest casino market on Earth, Bloomberg
Markets magazine reports in its April issue.  Macau, a former Portuguese colony on the South China coast
that’s half the size of Manhattan island, is the only place in
the world’s most populous nation where 1.3 billion Chinese are
permitted to gamble in casinos. Revenue from casinos in the
territory, which is 60 kilometers (37 miles) southwest of Hong
Kong, soared  58 percent  to $23.5 billion last year -- more than
quadruple the $5.8 billion gambled on the Las Vegas Strip,
according to  statistics  compiled by both jurisdictions.  The rise in Hong Kong-listed Galaxy’s share price is just
as impressive. As of March 8, the stock had more than tripled to
10.92 Hong Kong dollars from HK$3.21 at the start of 2010. The
shares have outperformed those of rivals such as  Sheldon Adelson ’s  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , Steve Wynn’s  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) ,
Australian billionaire  James Packer ’s  Melco Crown Entertainment
Ltd. (MPEL)  and  Stanley Ho ’s  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)   New Casino  On March 10, the Luis are scheduled to announce the opening
date of the family’s biggest development yet. The $1.9 billion,
2,200-room Galaxy Macau resort will feature 5 gaming areas with
a combined floor area equivalent to 3 football fields; 3 hotels;
50 restaurants; and, on the roof, a palm-fringed beach with 350
tons of white sand imported from neighboring Guangdong province
and lapped by artificial waves.  Meanwhile, the dominant figure in Macau gaming for the past
half century may be fading from the scene. On Jan. 24, Ho, 89,
appeared to surrender control of the company that operates 20 of
Macau’s 33  casinos . SJM notified the  Hong Kong  Exchange that Ho
had transferred his shares in a family company called Lanceford
to relatives, effectively ceding ownership of Sociedade de
Turismo e Diversoes de Macau SA (STDM), the closely held company
that controls SJM.  Court Battle  Two days later, the wheelchair-bound Ho, who fathered 17
children by 4 women he refers to as his “wives,” filed a
lawsuit alleging that 2 of those wives and 5 of his children had
illegally grabbed control of his assets. Although that lawsuit
was subsequently withdrawn, on Feb. 16, Oldham, Li & Nie, the
law firm representing Ho, filed a new suit against some family
members that accused two of Ho’s daughters of seizing the
tycoon’s holding in STDM. Those relatives deny the allegations.  The feud, which is still playing out in Hong Kong’s courts,
dragged down SJM’s stock price by 20 percent as of March 8 from
this year’s Jan. 19 peak as investors fretted over who was in
control.  As the Ho dynasty trembles, the Lui family, whose five
existing casinos account for 12.5 percent of Macau’s gaming
revenue, is betting they can extend their winning run. The Luis
have a track record of defying the odds. Chairman and founder
Lui Che-woo, 81, arrived in Hong Kong in 1934 as a 4-year-old
refugee from war-ravaged mainland  China . Francis Lui says that
at the age of 13, his father was helping support his family by
selling food on the streets of the British colony before making
his first pot of gold trading war surplus equipment and then
moving into construction, property and hospitality.  Family Business  Today, in partnership with three sons and two daughters,
Lui Che-woo presides over a multinational  empire  that includes
hotels in the U.S., office towers in China, quarries in Hong
Kong and the Macau casinos.  Though still active in the boardroom and on the golf course,
Lui Che-woo delegates the running of the casinos to vice
chairman and eldest son Francis, who holds a master’s degree in
structural engineering from the  University of California ,
Berkeley, and says his idea of relaxation is to walk the family
dog.  A younger son, Lawrence, stayed in the U.S. after gaining a
master’s from  Massachusetts Institute of Technology . Today, he
runs the family’s main U.S. business, the San Francisco-based
 Stanford Hotels Corp ., which owns seven Hiltons, three Sheratons
and two Marriotts. A third son, Alexander, 47, who studied at
the University of  Southern California , is an executive director
of the family’s only other publicly traded company, Hong Kong-
listed  K Wah International Holdings Ltd. (173) , and oversees its Hong
Kong properties.  $3.5 Billion  Daughter Paddy, 56, a business studies graduate of
Montreal’s McGill University, is an executive director of both
Galaxy Entertainment and K Wah. Another daughter, Eileen, serves
as director of human resources and administration at Galaxy and
doesn’t hold a board membership.  Although Francis Lui declines to discuss the family’s
wealth, their holdings in Galaxy and K Wah alone are currently
valued at about $3.5 billion.  Success with the new venture is no one-way bet. Although
Macau, like Hong Kong, is an autonomous special administrative
region of China, its surging casino revenue hinges on the
policies of the government in Beijing, which controls the
movement of people across the border.  Real Estate Boom  With a population of just 550,000, Macau is dependent on 25
million annual visitors. In recent years, Beijing has at times
temporarily reduced visa permits to cool an overheating Macau
economy that as recently as the second quarter of 2010 soared by
31 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, compared
with a 10.3 percent rise in China during the same period. Macau
real estate prices will gain 20 percent this year, according to
Midland Holdings Ltd, Hong Kong’s largest publicly traded real
estate agency.  While the Macau government supports the gaming industry,
Beijing is of two minds, says Zeng Zhonglu, a professor of
gaming research at the Macau Polytechnic Institute.  “The central government does not want too many
pathological gamblers,” Zeng says.  Francis Lui says it’s in Beijing’s interests for Macau’s
casino industry to grow. He says Chinese government policy
encourages domestic consumption, which at present comprises just
35 percent of gross domestic product, barely half that of the
U.S.  ‘Believe in Macau’  “If you believe in the China consumer story, you have to
believe in Macau,” he says.  The Luis should have no problem filling the Galaxy Macau,
says Billy Ng, Hong Kong-based gaming analyst at Bank of
America’s Merrill Lynch unit, who rates the stock a “buy.” In
the past 10 years, annual disposable urban household incomes in
China tripled to 17,200 yuan ($2,600). Wealthy individuals, such
as the high rollers who already pack the VIP rooms at the
StarWorld, now control $2.3 trillion in disposable income,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Given all that
wealth, Ng estimates Macau’s casino revenue could rise another
27 percent this year to almost $30 billion. So far this year,
revenue has risen 33 percent in January and 48 percent in
February, from the same months a year earlier.  “It will be enough for everyone, including the new
casino,” Ng says.  Adelson Competitor  The Luis have built Galaxy Macau right next door to, and in
direct competition with, Adelson’s 3,000-room  Venetian Macao 
Resort Hotel. The Venetian, the territory’s biggest casino, is a
replica of the U.S. company’s flagship Las Vegas resort, right
down to the imitation Grand Canal, singing gondoliers and
artificial blue sky.  When the Luis won their gaming concession in 2002, they
originally planned to run their casinos in partnership with
Adelson’s Las Vegas Sands. Within a year, however, the partners
fell out because Adelson wanted to re-create the Las Vegas Strip
in South China and the Luis wanted to build casinos and resorts
designed for Asian tastes.  “If we followed the Vegas model, we would always end up No.
2,” Lui says. “We do not want to settle for that.”  One small but telling difference in emphasis between the
former partners: In November, Adelson’s Sands Macao opened  Asia ’s first Playboy Club -- complete with blond Bunnies, some
of whom hail from the U.S. and  Australia . By contrast, Galaxy
Macau’s showpiece nightspot will be called China Rouge and
feature scantily clad Asian performers in a display of what it
describes as   Shanghai  1930s decadence.”  Different Tastes  Ron Reese, a Las Vegas-based spokesman for Adelson says the
difference in tastes accounts for the split between the former
partners.  “I think competing visions is a good way to describe it,”
he says. “Our success is not dependent on their failure and
vice versa.”  Permira Advisers LLP, a European private-equity fund that
controls about 20 billion euros ($28 billion) in assets, is
wagering that the Luis hold a winning hand. In 2007, London-
based Permira paid $838 million for a 20 percent stake in the
company.  “We were looking for a Chinese partner to enter the Macau
market, and we believe in the Lui family’s vision and
entrepreneurial flair,” says Martin Clarke, a London-based
Permira partner who also sits on the Galaxy board.  ‘Blazing Performance’  Galaxy Macau also has the advantage of being the only
casino to open in Macau in 2011, says  Jonathan Galaviz , managing
director of Las Vegas-based consulting firm Galaviz & Co., which
advises casino operators in the U.S. and Asia.  “Given Macau’s blazing performance, the timing could not
have been more perfect for Galaxy,” Galaviz says.  Should the Ho dynasty fragment, the Luis will be in an even
stronger position because they are the only other Chinese casino
owners in Macau, says Miguel de Senna Fernandes, a Macau lawyer
and former legislator. Gaming taxes account for two-thirds of
the Macau government’s revenue. Given the importance of the
industry, Beijing would rather it be run, where possible, by
Chinese, Fernandes says.  “If there is a split or any kind of instability in SJM,
Galaxy will benefit for sure,” he says. “The Luis have better
access to the Chinese government and know better than the
Americans what the Chinese gambler wants.”  Though reluctant to comment on Ho’s woes, Francis Lui says
there’s no danger his family will suffer the same fate.  “We are very grateful that we have a closely knit family
and that we do not have to worry about the next time we have to
see each other in court,” he says.  From China to U.S.  The Lui family’s Macau adventure is the latest twist in a
sweeping four-generation saga that twice forced clan members to
flee China in poverty.  As the Qing dynasty collapsed in chaos a century ago,
Francis Lui’s great-grandfather moved to  San Francisco  from the
impoverished village of Jiangmen in Guangdong, the Cantonese-
speaking Chinese province that abuts Hong Kong and Macau.  After making his fortune running a laundry, the Lui
forebear returned home and became a landlord. That comfortable
life ended in 1931 after Japanese troops invaded Manchuria. In
1934, the family -- by then including the infant Lui Che-woo --
fled to Hong Kong.  Hotels, Casinos  After a spell trading war surplus machinery, Lui Che-woo was
left with some rock-crushing plants the family couldn’t sell and
decided to make use of them by setting up a quarrying business.
At 25, Lui Che-woo founded a company he named the K Wah Group,
which later diversified into concrete, cement and pipes. Today,
the company says its construction materials have been used in
one-quarter of all Hong Kong buildings.  Lui Che-woo also turned to property development. In 1979,
he built his first Hong Kong hotel, originally a Holiday Inn and
since rebranded as the  InterContinental Grand Stanford Hong Kong.   As the K Wah business empire expanded into the U.S. and
mainland China, the Lui children spotted an opportunity closer
to home. Just an hour by ferry from Hong Kong, Macau in 1999 was
to be returned to Chinese rule after 400 years of Portuguese
control.  More significant for the Luis, a gaming monopoly, awarded
to Stanley Ho in 1962 for 40 years, was to expire on Dec. 31,
2001, and the Beijing-appointed government was promising to
introduce competition.  Ho’s casinos were no-frills gambling dens. Yet each of
their 340 tables returned on average 10 times as much as those
in Las Vegas, according to a 2002 Deutsche Bank AG report.  “Casinos then were smoky rooms associated with vice and
crime,” Francis Lui says.  Seizing Opportunities  “We weren’t the wealthiest people in Hong Kong, but we saw
an opportunity others didn’t. As kids we had gone to school in
the States and had been to Las Vegas. We were convinced that the
entertainment and gaming industries could be merged into a super
industry.”  Lui Che-woo was also well-connected in China. Like Ho, he
had served on the Chinese People’s Political Consultative
Conference, a Beijing-appointed body that advises China’s
parliament. Chinese government scientists had even named an
asteroid in his honor.  The Lui family, which teamed up with Adelson, was among 17
applicants for the licenses -- and one of three initially
selected by the Macau government. Another went to Wynn and the
third to Stanley Ho. When Lui and Adelson had a falling-out, the
Macau government, not wanting to lose Las Vegas Sands, allowed
each of the license holders to issue a sublicense. Las Vegas
Sands was given Galaxy’s sublicense.  Kerkorian, Packer  Ho sold his to a joint venture between Kirk Kerkorian’s MGM
Resorts and one of Ho’s daughters, Pansy. Wynn sold its
sublicense for $900 million to Melco Crown, a joint venture
between Packer and one of Ho’s sons, Lawrence.  The rival companies then began a frenzy of construction,
both in downtown Macau, which is on a peninsula that protrudes
like an appendix from Guangdong province, and on the Cotai Strip,
an isthmus of reclaimed land connecting two offshore islands.  As Galaxy’s StarWorld, completed in 2006, started to
attract high rollers to its VIP rooms, the Luis began to build
the even bigger  Galaxy Macau on the Cotai Strip . Just weeks
after Permira made its $838 million investment to help fund the
new casino, the global financial crisis intervened, hammering
the stocks of casino companies worldwide. From a high of HK$9.14
in October 2007, Galaxy’s shares plunged 94 percent to 53 Hong
Kong cents a year later.  Galaxy Rebounds  The Luis and Permira decided to slow down work on the
Galaxy. Simultaneously, Galaxy reduced debt by buying back $285
million of bonds at 50 cents on the dollar. In 2009, the company
reported a profit of HK$1.15 billion ($145 million), following a
HK$11.5 billion loss the previous year. The stock later
catapulted back to surpass its precrisis peak. On March 8, the
value of Permira’s stake had risen to $1.13 billion.  With StarWorld, the Luis target the VIP market, high-
rolling gamblers mostly brought to Macau from China by junket
operators. Apart from the hotel rooms, many of the floors are
made up of plush suites where gamblers, mostly playing baccarat,
can bet up to HK$2 million a hand.  On the top two floors of the hotel, exclusive suites are
reserved for the highest of high rollers. They feature their own
gaming tables as well as bathrooms with Jacuzzis and private
massage tables.  Asian-Flavored Service  The much-bigger Galaxy Macau will appeal mainly to the so-
called mass market of middle-class Chinese. Unlike Adelson and
Packer, who have brought in famous Western hotel brands such as
Four Seasons, Hard Rock and Sheraton to manage the
accommodations in their casinos, Galaxy Macau’s three hotels
will be operated by Japan’s Okura Hotels & Resorts Ltd.,
Singapore-based  Banyan Tree Holdings Ltd. (BTH)  and Galaxy’s own hotel
unit.  They will provide an Asian-flavored standard of service,
Francis Lui says.  “It’s like when you go on an airline,” he says. “Which
would you prefer? I would bet 8 out of 10 customers would prefer
to fly Cathay Pacific or Singapore Airlines than United.”  One question Lui leaves unanswered is what comes after
Galaxy. The huge casino covers only one-fourth of the land the
company has leased on the Cotai Strip. Lui says he doesn’t want
to develop that too soon in case Chinese gamblers’ tastes change.  “Look at Beijing and Shanghai,” he says. “The lifestyle
today is night and day compared to five years ago. In China,
customer preferences are evolving so quickly that there’s no
telling what people will want in another five years.”  That’s why the casino tycoon who finds it hard to keep a
poker face for the cameras isn’t yet prepared to show his hand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Mellor in Sydney at 
 wmellor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 