-- 
Hacking of DuPont, J&J, GE Were Google-Type Attacks That Weren't Disclosed

-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-03-08T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/hacking-of-dupont-j-j-ge-were-google-type-attacks-that-weren-t-disclosed.html
The FBI broke the news to executives
at DuPont Co. late last year that hackers had cracked the
company’s  computer networks  for the second time in 12 months,
according to a confidential Dec. 9, 2010, e-mail discussing the
investigation.  About a year earlier, DuPont had been hit by the same China-
based hackers who struck  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and unlike Google, DuPont
kept the intrusion secret, internal e-mails from cyber-security
firm HBGary Inc. show. As DuPont probed the incidents,
executives concluded they were the target of a campaign of
industrial spying, the e-mails show.  The attacks on DuPont and on more than a dozen other
companies are discussed in about 60,000 confidential e-mails
that HBGary, hired by some of the targeted businesses, said were
stolen from it on Feb. 6 and posted on the Internet by a group
of hacker-activists known as Anonymous. The companies attacked
include  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ,  Sony Corp. (6758) , Johnson & Johnson, and
General Electric Co., the e-mails show.  The incidents described in the stolen e-mails portray
industrial espionage by hackers based in  China ,  Russia  and other
countries. U.S. law enforcement agencies say the attacks have
intensified in number and scope over the past two years.  “We are on the losing end of the biggest transfer of
wealth through theft and piracy in the history of the planet,”
said Democratic Senator Sheldon Whitehouse of  Rhode Island , who
chaired a U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence task
force on U.S. cyber security in 2010. Its classified report
addressed weaknesses in network security.  Dangers ‘Unappreciated’  FBI Deputy Assistant Director Steven Chabinsky, who works
in the agency’s cyber division, said it would be hard to imagine
that the scale of the current range of cyber attacks could grow
larger.  “It appears that every industry is being victimized by
intrusions,” he said.  The companies identified by Bloomberg News from the e-mails
never disclosed the security breaches to investors or
regulators. Secrecy may be a reason why the dangers of the
intrusions are “underappreciated” by investors and regulators,
Whitehouse said in an interview.  “The companies don’t want to disclose it,” he said.
“They want to just basically eat the harm that was done to them
and pretend that all is well.”  HBGary, based in  Sacramento ,  California , is one of a
handful of cyber-security firms, including  Santa Clara ,
California-based McAfee Inc. and Alexandria, Virginia-based
Mandiant Corp., that are hired by global companies to
investigate illegal computer break-ins and advise on how to
prevent them. HBGary shares its forensic findings with other
security firms and got information on undisclosed break-ins in
return, the e-mails show.  Hacker Targets  The targets of the recent attacks included energy,
pharmaceutical and defense companies, as well as the high-tech
manufacturers of global satellite imagery and smart bombs,
according to the HBGary e-mails, which include correspondence
with clients or potential clients such as DuPont.  Executives of attacked companies feared the intrusions
would spark questions from investors and regulators about what
was stolen, according to the e-mails and interviews with cyber-
security experts such as Scott Borg, director of the nonprofit
 U.S. Cyber Consequences Unit  and Kevin Mandia, chief executive
officer of  Mandiant . All said they can’t discuss specific
clients because of nondisclosure agreements.  Events considered “material” must be reported to
investors under U.S. securities laws.  Google Attacks  Google said in January 2010 it had lost intellectual
property assets to hackers based in China. It also said that
about 20 other companies it declined to identify then and again
on March 7 were victims of the same kind of intrusions.  Adobe
Systems Inc. (ADBE)  said it had been attacked by hackers based in
China.  Intel Corp. (INTC)  said it was attacked in a “sophisticated
incident” around the same time as Google. Others remained
silent. DuPont denied it had been hacked.  The attacks on DuPont were disclosed in some of the stolen
HBGary e-mails, which Bloomberg News examined.  “DuPont’s concern and comfort factor was  puckered  when they
received external notice of breach by FBI,” Jim Butterworth,
HBGary’s vice president for services, wrote colleagues on Dec.
9, 2010, regarding the second attack. “DuPont likes that we have
close ties to them and other three letter agencies.”  Earlier, a DuPont internal investigation had discovered
that some of its computers were implanted with spyware during a
business trip to China where the PC’s were stored in a hotel
safe, according to a Feb. 4, 2010, e-mail by HBGary’s Rich
Cummings.  ‘It’s Personal’  “To DuPont it’s personal,” HBGary investigator Bob Slapnik
wrote after a meeting with company managers in December 2009.
“They believe their bad guys are the Chinese who want to catch
up and leapfrog them in the global marketplace.”  The attacks were done by hackers who represented “people,
organizations and countries that strive to do them harm,” in
the view of DuPont managers, Slapnik wrote.  A spokesman for China’s embassy in  Washington ,  Wang Baodong , said China is a victim of hacking attacks and “the
wrong target of unwarranted blame.” Its government supports
international efforts to fight hacking, he said by e-mail.  DuPont spokesman Dan Turner said the company doesn’t
comment on “cyber security-related risks.”  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
spokeswoman Carol Goodrich declined to comment. Representatives
of Disney and GE didn’t return phone calls and e-mails seeking
comment. A Sony spokeswoman declined to comment and asked not to
be identified because of company policy.  Energy Company Assault  Among HBGary’s clients was Houston-based drilling company  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , which said it was hacked recently as part of
a wide assault on energy companies. Baker Hughes provides
advanced drilling equipment and proprietary techniques for
assessing the quality and accessibility of oil reserves.  HBGary Chief Executive Officer Greg Hoglund wrote in a
January e-mail that his company had been tracking cyber attacks
against oil and gas companies aimed at “stealing competitive
bids, architectural plans, project definition documents,
functional operational aspects to use in competitive bid
situations from Siberia to China.”  Hoglund wrote in the January e-mail that “when dealing
with energy bids the potential loss is billions.”  Butterworth, the HBGary vice president, said the company
won’t comment on the e-mails, except to say it was the victim of
a crime and the e-mails were stolen.  A Baker Hughes spokesman, Gary Flaharty, confirmed in an
interview last month that his company’s networks were breached.  Baker Hughes decided the intrusion was not a material event
and so didn’t file a disclosure with U.S. regulators, he said.  Proprietary Data  A previous review of HBGary e-mails by Bloomberg News
showed hackers also stole proprietary data from Exxon Mobil
Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc, BP Plc,  ConocoPhillips (COP) , and
Marathon Oil Corp, as well as Morgan Stanley.  In e-mails mentioning Sony, J&J, GE and other companies,
there’s little detail on what was taken or how deeply the
hackers penetrated. Much of the e-mail traffic involved the
technical work of hunting hackers who have infiltrated computer
networks with stealthy tools.  HBGary investigator Sam Maccherola said in an e-mail to two
company colleagues that Sony had asked for help in dealing with
an attack that “looks relatively nasty.”  In the case of GE, disclosure was enough of a concern that
the company’s lawyers reviewed whether to approve the release of
malware -- malicious software -- found on their network so that
HBGary investigators could analyze it, the e-mails show.  Hackers also appear to be widening their targets, stealing
information from vendors or contractors that may have strategic
data about their clients, including public relations and law
firms, Chabinsky said.  Law Firm Attack  Among those attacked, the e-mails show, was Atlanta-based
King & Spalding LLP, the 38th biggest law firm in the country in
2010, according to the National Law Journal. The e-mails don’t
indicate what information the hackers targeted. Among King &
Spalding’s practice specialties is corporate espionage,
according to the firm’s website.  Les Zuke, spokesman for King & Spalding, didn’t return
phone calls seeking comment.  HBGary investigators routinely worked 60 to 80 hours a week
to plug holes in networks, often exchanging information about
the attacks with other cyber-security firms, as companies
fretted they were losing secret data, the e-mails show.  ‘Battling’ Attacks  “I’ve been battling with APT for the last 6 months,”
Matthew Babcock, an employee of the CareFirst BlueCross
BlueShield, a health insurance provider in Maryland and
Washington, wrote in an e-mail to HBGary investigators as he
sought help with the intrusion. APT refers to an “advanced
persistent threat,” a sophisticated form of hacking that is
difficult to identify and remedy.  “I am sure they are watching me just as I am watching
them,” Babcock said.  Security experts say that the hackers’ techniques now
surpass the ability of even the most sophisticated companies to
catch them easily. The e-mails show that hackers routinely
bypassed firewalls with so-called spear-fishing e-mails that
target executives, tricking the companies’ own employees into
downloading malicious software and infecting their own networks.  “You can’t buy enough security to match the threat
today,” said Anup Ghosh, chief executive officer of the cyber
security firm Invincea Inc.  Suspicious Traffic    QinetiQ Group Plc (QQ/) , a London-based defense company, found
out its secure network had been breached after the FBI noticed
suspicious traffic between the Pentagon contractor and an
unidentified U.S. government agency, an HBGary report attached
to an e-mail shows.  The company’s investigation, which HBGary aided, found that
the hackers may have gone unnoticed within the breached network
for more than a year.  “Given that we continue to find malware from early 2009 it
may be a matter of them never having left,” one HBGary
investigator wrote in September, as the company struggled to
contain the intrusion.  “We’ve made changes to ensure we secure everything as well
as possible,” said Sophie Barrett, a QinetiQ spokeswoman.
“We’d rather not continue to give the story life,” she said,
declining to comment further.  The investigators followed the hackers’ electronic
footprints from QinetiQ to a command-and-control server that
appeared to be directing attacks against at least three other
Pentagon contractors, including  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK) , which
makes smart weapons.  A spokesman for Minneapolis-based Alliant, Bryce Hallowell,
declined to comment on cyber security matters.  Arms-Related Data  “They only steal ITAR restricted data,” HBGary’s CEO
wrote in an October 2010 e-mail to the FBI, alerting the agency
to the other possible breaches. ITAR refers to International
Traffic in Arms Regulations, which limit exports of critical
defense-related technology.  The FBI supervisor responded that he would send over an
agent from the Sacramento office over immediately for more
information.  “I like to avoid unencrypted e-mail if possible,” the
agent wrote back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fred Strasser at   fstrasser@bloomberg.net  