-- 
Madoff Trustee to Seek Court Approval to Start Paying Victims This Year

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-08T22:22:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/madoff-trustee-to-seek-court-approval-to-start-paying-victims-this-year.html
  Irving Picard , the trustee
liquidating  Bernard Madoff ’s investment firm, will seek approval
to begin making payouts this year to victims, his chief lawyer
told reporters.  Picard likely will ask U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland 
in Manhattan this month for permission to begin making payments
from the $2.6 billion in cash and cash equivalents at his
disposal, said David Sheehan, the trustee’s lawyer. A hearing on
the matter might be scheduled for April. Sheehan said today
during a conference call with reporters.  “Those who didn’t get their money back are entitled to get
it from those who have it,” Sheehan said, discussing the
trustee’s efforts to recoup money from people and firms that
received more from Madoff than they invested.  Picard and Sheehan said they have recovered almost
$10 billion of the $20 billion in principal investors are
believed to have lost in Madoff’s investment fraud Ponzi scheme.  In January, Lifland approved the trustee’s $7.2 billion
settlement with the estate of deceased Madoff investor Jeffry M. Picower. Under that accord, the estate agreed to pay $5 billion
to Picard for distribution to Madoff’s creditors. It also agreed
to pay the government $2.2 billion, which will be distributed,
under Picard’s supervision, to victims.  The settlement terms have been challenged on appeal. That
will delay payments involving most of the recovered money until
after the appeal is resolved, Picard said.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  