-- 
African Barrick, Tanzanian Airline and Bank May List This Year

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-08T10:23:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/african-barrick-tanzanian-airline-national-commerce-may-list-this-year.html
  African Barrick Gold Ltd. (ABG) ,  Precision
Air Services Ltd.  and National Bank of Commerce plan to start
trading shares on  Tanzania ’s stock exchange this year, said
Peter Machunde, a board member of the east African bourse.  Precision Air, based in Tanzania, has plans for an initial
public offering on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange by next
month or May, Machunde, the DSE’s past chairman, said in a phone
interview from the commercial capital today. Tanzanian lender
 National Bank of Commerce  also aims to list in 2011, he said.
The planned share offers are subject to regulatory approvals.  “Precision Air will become the first company in the
transportation sector on the exchange, probably listing around
early May,” Machunde said. “National Bank of Commerce is still
in talks. We expect that to happen this year.”  African Barrick Gold, the biggest London-listed producer of
the precious metal, may finalize plans for cross-listing by
year-end provided that there’s agreement on “a few technical
issues,” he said, without providing further information.  The company runs  four mines  in Tanzania, while  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,  Africa ’s biggest gold producer, and Resolute
Mining Ltd., of  Australia , also each operate a gold mine.
Tanzania is sub-Saharan Africa’s fourth-largest gold producer,
behind  South Africa ,  Ghana  and  Mali , and holds the world’s only
known deposit of tanzanite, a precious gemstone.  African Barrick’s “key assets are based in Tanzania, so
any move involving Tanzanian participation through share
ownership is something that will benefit us,” Machunde said.  Tanzania ‘Sentiment’  “I think that it will also reduce the sentiment against
the international mining companies who are perceived to come and
extract the resources and leave little to Tanzanians,” he said.  Mining accounts for a “meager” 2.3 percent of Tanzania’s
gross domestic product yet contributed one-third of foreign-
exchange earnings, President Jakaya Kikwete told an  Extractive
Industries Transparency Initiative  meeting in Paris on March 3,
according to an e-mailed copy of his speech.  Precision Air plans to raise $28 million in an initial
public offering to fund the purchase of aircraft and develop new
routes. The sale will reduce  Kenya Airways Ltd. (KNAL) ’s 49 percent
stake to 34.2 percent, according to a July 16 statement.  Precision Air’s Chief Executive Officer Alfonse Kioko
wasn’t available to talk when Bloomberg News called his Dar es
Salaam office today, said an assistant who refused to be
identified. No one answered the phone when Bloomberg News called
a second time.  The Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange has 16 listed companies
and a market capitalization of $3.7 billion, according to its
website.  Fratern Mboya, chief executive officer of the Dar es
Salaam-based  Capital Markets & Securities Authority , said by
phone today that Precision Air and African Barrick “launched
their applications” for listing shares on Tanzania’s exchange.  Machunde is also chief executive officer of Vertex
International Securities Ltd., a Dar es Salaam-based brokerage
that’s registered to trade shares on the DSE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 