-- 
Magang Seeks Share of China’s High-Speed Trains Amid Boom

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-09T11:15:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/magang-seeks-share-of-china-s-high-speed-trains-amid-boom.html
Magang (Group) Holding Co.,  China ’s
biggest maker of train wheels, said the government is testing
the company’s products, which may replace imports as the nation
embarks on a railway building spree.  The tests are on high-power locomotive wheels, and it is
waiting for approval to start trials on wheels for trains that
can run at 250 kilometers (155 miles) an hour, Chairman Gu Jianguo said in an interview while attending the National
People’s Congress in Beijing. China imports such wheels from  Europe  and other countries, he said.  China, the world’s biggest steel producer, wants mills to
switch to higher-grade alloys because of overcapacity in general
products and rising raw material costs. The government is
investing 800 billion yuan ($121 billion) to build 6,000
kilometers of high-speed rail lines by 2012 to help carry its
industrial expansion inland.  “High-speed train wheels, high-strength automotive sheets
and high-strength reinforcing bars are among our development
targets,” Gu said. The “profit margin of train wheels is high
so far. Still, it may be squeezed by rising competition as
several rivals are also studying how to develop train wheels.”    Maanshan Iron & Steel (323)  Co., the Hong Kong-listed unit, is
little changed this year, compared with the 13 percent decline
of bigger rival Angang Steel Co. The benchmark Hang Seng index
has climbed 2.9 percent this year.  Magang, China’s 10th-biggest mill, aims to boost capacity
by as much as 56 percent to 25 million tons by 2015, by
acquiring domestic rivals, Gu said.  Railway Spending  From 2011 to 2015, China will spend as much as 3.5 trillion
yuan on railway construction, 750 billion yuan on rail rolling
stock, and 3.5 trillion to 4 trillion yuan on highways,
according to estimates by Macquarie Group Ltd. last month.  Already, the Chinese rail system is larger than any other
country’s, according to the Paris-based  International Union of
Railways .  The average profit margin of China’s large- and mid-sized
steelmakers was 2.91 percent last year, compared with 6 percent
for all industries, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
March 2. Magang, based in Anhui province, had a similar profit
margin to rivals, Gu said.  Magang is planning to expand its steel cutting and
equipment manufacturing in the next five years, the chairman
said. So-called “non-core” business accounts for 10 percent of
Magang’s sales, and the company wants to expand that to 15
percent, he said.  Iron Ore Investments  The steelmaker, which imports 75 percent of its iron ore
needs, has abandoned talks for several mine projects because
they are “too expensive,” Gu said, without giving details.  The price of 62 percent  iron ore  arriving at China’s
Tianjin port reached $190.60 last month, the highest level since
November 2008, according to data from The Steel Index compiled
on Bloomberg.  Chinese steelmakers will likely build more electric arc
furnaces, which use scrap as an alternative to iron ore in steel
production, Gu said. Magang will start a new 1 million-ton
electric arc furnace this year, he said.  “We believe that the supply-demand status for iron ore
will have a turnaround in three to five years,” he said, “We
want to boost control of the raw material, but we also care
about the cost performance of investments.”  The steelmaker needs to import 1 million tons of coking
coal from BHP Billion Ltd. and other suppliers annually, he said.
Magang is buying iron ore under quarterly contracts and coal
under monthly contracts, he said.  Asian steelmakers may be forced to pay as much as 44
percent more for hard coking coal after heavy rain and flooding
in  Australia  shut mines, according to the median estimate of 11
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  --Helen Yuan. Editors: Tan Hwee Ann, Alan Soughley.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  