-- 
Thai Central Bank May Use Capital Controls If Appropriate

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-03-08T06:59:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/thai-central-bank-may-use-capital-controls-if-appropriate-1-.html
  Thailand ’s central bank is preparing
measures to limit  capital controls  and will enforce them when
“appropriate,” according to Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul.  “How to handle the volatility of capital movement is a
challenge,” Prasarn said in a speech at an economic seminar in
Bangkok today. The measures will have different degrees of
severity to cope with a variety of situations, he added.  The baht rose 0.3 percent today to trade at a seven-week
high of 30.34 per dollar as of 1:41 p.m. in Bangkok, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the seventh gain in a row,
the longest winning streak in three months. The currency touched
29.46 on Nov. 10, its strongest level since 1997.  “It’s just a verbal warning to prevent excessive
appreciation in the baht,” said  Yuji Kameoka , chief currency
strategist at Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. in Tokyo. “I
don’t think the market will react overly since the rhetoric came
as the baht has been rising gradually.”  Prasarn forecast Thailand will have net capital inflows
this year and next as  Asia ’s economic fundamentals are favorable
compared to those of major industrialized nations. Flows of
funds are likely to prove volatile, he added.  Thailand’s Monetary Policy Committee will consider many
economic factors, including inflation, when it meets to review
benchmark  interest rates  tomorrow, Prasarn told reporters on the
sidelines of today’s seminar.  “We are confident we can keep inflation within our target
between 0.5 percent and 3 percent,” he said.  The central bank will lift its policy rate by a quarter of
a percentage point to 2.50 percent, according to 17 of 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Three forecast no change.  The Bank of Thailand lifted the one-day bond repurchase
rate at its last meeting on Jan. 12 by 25 basis points to 2.25
percent and signaled further increases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net 
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  