-- 
ILFC Plans to Buy $11.8 Billion Worth of Airbus, Boeing Jets

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 
2011-03-09T00:42:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/aig-s-plane-leasing-unit-is-said-to-order-at-least-50-airbus-a320neo-jets.html
  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s
jet-leasing unit said it will buy 100 Airbus SAS aircraft and 33  Boeing Co. (BA)  737s, $11.8 billion in planes at list prices, as
airlines refresh their fleets amid rising travel demand.  International Lease Finance Corp. said its deal with Airbus
consists of 75 A320neo narrow-body jets, as the model fitted
with new, more fuel-efficient engines is called, and 25 A321neo
planes. That replaces a plan to buy 10 A380 superjumbo jets,
which list for about $375 million each, ILFC said today.  The purchase will be Los Angeles-based ILFC’s first since
2007 as it seeks to resume growth after AIG’s bailout during the
2008 financial crisis. ILFC Chief Executive Officer Henri Courpron said in July he was starting negotiations about an
order to add to the company’s fleet of about 930 aircraft.  “It’s encouraging to see that ILFC is firmly back in the
game,” said Rob Stallard, an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets 
in New York. “We expect their leasing peers to also be looking
at follow-on orders this year.”  Boeing rose $1.16, or 1.6 percent, to $72.04 at 4:01 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Airbus parent
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. rose 54 cents, or 2.8
percent, to 19.84 euros in Paris.  Aging Fleets  Airlines’ demand is being fueled by aging fleets in  North
America  and  Europe  and the growth of low-cost carriers in
emerging markets, said  Peter Arment , a Gleacher & Co. Securities
analyst in Greenwich,  Connecticut . Boeing and Airbus are
boosting output to record levels as orders rebound after the
recession.  ILFC’s plans are a “sign that leasing activity from one of
the industry’s top players is back,” Arment said.  AIG’s rescue by the federal government eventually swelled
to $182.3 billion. Shut out of capital markets for more than a
year, ILFC had to be propped up by AIG, sold 53 planes to
Macquarie Aerospace Ltd. for $2 billion in April 2010 and named
Courpron, a former Airbus executive, as CEO in May.  Airlines’ efforts to blunt rising fuel costs helped drive
the order, Courpron said in an interview today, a day after
crude oil rose to a 29-month high in  New York .  “Customers are saying fuel is becoming a significant
factor in their cost, and it is a sense of history - you can’t
stop progress,” Courpron said. “Engine manufacturers have made
significant progress in offering technology, aircraft makers
need to avail themselves of that.”  Boeing Deliveries  ILFC will start taking the 737 deliveries in 2012.
Toulouse, France-based Airbus, which unveiled the A320neo on
Dec. 1, has said the first of the new jets would reach customers
starting in 2016. Today’s memorandum of understanding marks the
first intended order for the larger A321neo model.  “This brings to 302 the number of airplane commitments for
the A320neo,”‘ John Leahy, Airbus’s chief salesman, said in an
interview. “That’s the fastest rate of sales we’ve ever seen on
any plane.”  The loss of the A380s “is not a big blow” for Airbus
because ILFC doesn’t operate the jets itself and was buying the
planes to lease to airlines, Leahy said.  The A320neo has a list price of $91.2 million, while the
published price of the A321neo is $105.9 million. Boeing’s
737-800 lists for  $80.8 million . All are similar single-aisle
jets, which are the workhorses of the global  airline industry ,
flown chiefly on domestic routes.  Watching Boeing  Boeing is leaning toward developing an all-new successor to
the 737, the world’s most widely flown airliner, by 2019 instead
of mimicking Airbus by offering upgraded engines. Airlines would
prefer an even more efficient replacement jet and don’t want the
complexity of multiple new engines in their fleets, said Nicole Piasecki, Boeing’s vice president of business development.  The company aims to make a decision by June, after studying
the technology and production requirements for a new plane,
Piasecki said in an interview today.  “We need to have confidence both in our timing and in the
total life-cycle economics and in delivering that into the
market by the end of the decade,” Piasecki said.  Courpron said ILFC will monitor the market and see how
airlines respond to the neo and to Boeing’s plans. He also
hasn’t ruled out buying  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s CSeries jet, which
competes with smaller versions of the A320 family and the 737.  The larger A321neo is a “potential strong replacement”
for Boeing’s  single-aisle 757s , which went out of production in
2005, Courpron said.  Pratt & Whitney Win  ILFC chose Pratt & Whitney’s geared turbofan engine to
power 60 of the twin-engine Airbus planes, giving the unit of
Hartford, Connecticut-based  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  its
biggest order to date for the technology.  Pratt & Whitney didn’t disclose financial terms and hasn’t
announced a list price for the engine. Pratt’s offering competes
with the new Leap-X engine from  CFM International , a joint
venture of  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Safran SA (SAF)  of  France , on
Airbus neo models. Boeing’s 737-800s are exclusively powered by
CFM’s existing CFM56 model. Courpron said ILFC is still in talks
with CFM on the Leap-X.  “This is the first win for the new  Pratt & Whitney  engine
on the A320neo,” RBC’s Stallard said. “Given the quality of
the customer, I’d say it is a strong endorsement of the
potential qualities of this engine.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Mary Jane Credeur} in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
{Susanna Ray} in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  