-- 
Maine Wins First Waiver to Health Insurance Premium Rules

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-03-08T22:48:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/maine-wins-first-waiver-to-health-insurance-premium-rules.html
The state of  Maine  received a three-
year waiver to federal rules in the 2010 health law that require
health insurers to spend at least 80 percent of premiums on
patient care, the U.S. government said today.  Maine’s waiver is the first the government has granted on
the premium expenditure rules. Insurers in the state selling
policies to individuals will have to spend only 65 percent of
premiums on patients, with the rest going toward profits and
administrative costs. The exemption will last through 2013, U.S.
regulators said today in a  letter  to the state.  The spending requirement “has a reasonable likelihood of
destabilizing the Maine individual health insurance market,”
wrote Steve Larsen, deputy administrator of the Center for
Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight. The office is part
of the  Department of Health  and Human Services, which is
implementing the law signed by President  Barack Obama  in March
2010.  The law requires insurers in the individual market to spend
80 percent of premiums they take in on patient care. Large group
insurers have to spend 85 percent of premiums on care. The
health overhaul also created a process for states to get out of
those requirements if they show the rules would destabilize
their markets and possibly cause people to lose their coverage.  Kentucky, Nevada and New Hampshire have also  applied  for
changes to the 80 percent rule. The federal government is
reviewing those applications.  The U.S. previously has waived rules that would have
created minimum annual coverage levels for some health plans.  Insurers May Leave  Maine Insurance Commissioner Mila Kofman requested the
exemption from the 80 percent rule after HealthMarkets Inc.,
based in North Richland Hills,  Texas , threatened to stop selling
individual policies in Maine. The company is 77 percent-owned by
funds run by  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
Its subsidiary, MegaLife and Health Insurance Co., controls
about 37 percent of the Maine market for individual insurance
coverage, according to Larsen’s letter.  The city of  Los Angeles  sued HealthMarkets and its MegaLife
unit on Oct. 20 for allegedly selling “junk insurance” with
obscure provisions that left customers “without coverage when
they needed it most,” according to court documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  