-- 
Taiwan Government Lets Domestic Panel Makers Take Stakes in Chinese Peers

-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 
2011-03-09T03:28:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/taiwan-government-lets-domestic-panel-makers-take-stakes-in-chinese-peers.html
Taiwan will let  Chimei Innolux Corp. (3481) 
and other domestic flat-panel makers take stakes or merge with
Chinese peers as economic ties between the two sides deepen.  The panel makers can also start factories on the mainland
based on the same generation of technology used in plants in
Taiwan, Hwang Jung-chiou, a deputy minister at the Ministry of
Economic Affairs, said in Taipei yesterday.  The new rules come after the island last week allowed
Chinese investors to buy stakes in its liquid-crystal display
and chip-manufacturing industries. The easing of investment
norms will help Chimei and  AU Optronics Corp. (2409)  compete with  South
Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co. and LG Display Co. in China as
the Taiwanese companies can be closer to their customers.  “This relaxation will allow Taiwanese panel makers to
compete with global counterparts on an equal footing in  China ,”
said Eric Kao, an analyst at KGI Securities Co. in Taipei.  Samsung Electronics and LG Display, the world’s two biggest
makers of LCD panels, won approval from the Chinese government
in December to build factories on the mainland. Samsung’s
proposed 2.6 trillion won ($2.3 billion) plant in the Chinese
city of Suzhou will be based on 7.5-generation LCD technology,
while LG Display’s $4 billion factory will use eighth-generation
technology. 8G plants are designed to make displays measuring
more than 40 inches diagonally.  Chimei Innolux gained 0.5 percent to NT$33.85 as of 11:08
a.m. in Taipei trading, while AU Optronics added as much as 2.4
percent to NT$27.70, the stock’s highest intraday level since
Feb. 17, and traded at NT$27.40. The benchmark Taiex index
advanced 0.4 percent.  Chinese Factories  AUO,  Taiwan ’s second-largest LCD maker, last year won
approval to build its first panel factory in the eastern Chinese
city of Kunshan with a total investment of $3 billion. The
proposed 7.5-generation factory, which still requires approval
from China, is less advanced than the 8.5-generation facility
the panel maker operates in Taichung, central Taiwan.  The island in February 2010 let domestic panel makers start
a combined total of three LCD factories of sixth generation or
above in China, as long as the companies already had plants in
Taiwan that were at least one generation ahead in technology.  Strengthening Trade Ties  The easing in China-bound investment comes amid closer ties
across the Taiwan Straits following the signing of an economic
cooperation framework agreement in June. Relations between
Taiwan and China are at their warmest in more than 60 years
after President Ma Ying-jeou abandoned his predecessor’s pro-
independence stance and focused on economic issues.  China, Taiwan’s largest export market, regards the
independently governed island as part of its territory,
threatening to attack if it declares formal independence. The
two sides split more than 60 years ago after Mao Zedong’s
communists took control of China, forcing the then-ruling
Kuomintang to retreat to Taiwan.  Taiwan announced last week it will further open its
industries to Chinese investors. The island will allow Chinese
investments in 25 areas of manufacturing, eight services and
nine public infrastructure projects. Since June 2009, Taiwan has
opened 205 industries to Chinese investment, including textiles,
plastics, computers and handsets.  As of the end of February, investment from China in Taiwan
had reached $139 million, the economic affairs ministry said.
Taiwanese companies have invested an estimated $150 billion in
China since 1991.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
Janet Ong at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  