-- 
Taiwan Debt Tops Asia as Rising Oil Prices Punish Indonesia, Philippines

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-03-08T06:34:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/taiwan-s-debt-tops-asia-as-rising-oil-prices-punish-indonesia-philippines.html
Bonds from  Taiwan  are beating debt
from  Asia ’s developing nations as surging  oil prices  punish
economies with the fastest inflation.  Local-currency debt sold by Taiwan returned 1.4 percent
this year, the best performance in the region excluding Japan.
while Singaporean notes ranked third with a 1 percent return.
Indonesian and Philippine securities, the biggest gainers last
year, are now the worst performers, handing investors losses of
2.2 percent and 2.8 percent respectively as crude prices surged
15 percent in  New York .  Taiwan, which also boasts Asia’s best performing currency
in the past six months, has the slowest inflation in the region
at 1.3 percent in February. Consumer prices are rising at least
three times faster in the  Philippines  and Indonesia, where food
and fuel accounts for a larger share of living expenses.  The market perceives “the central banks of Indonesia and
the Philippines as behind the curve in combating inflationary
pressure,” said Tamara Trinh, a portfolio manager in  Frankfurt 
at Nomura Asset Management Co., a unit of Japan’s largest
brokerage. If Taiwan and Singapore “fall behind in their drive
to combat inflation, government bond markets there will likely
be negatively affected as well,” she said.  Nomura Asset, Western Asset Management Co. and Mitsubishi-
UFJ Asset Management Co. are favoring Asia’s investment-grade
economies as developing-nation debt slumps globally. Emerging-
market local bonds have fallen 0.8 percent this year, according
to an index compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co., after rallying 11
percent in 2010.  Policy Credibility  Debt from Hong Kong and  Singapore  performed the best in the
region from Jan. 18, 2007 to July 11, 2008, when oil almost
tripled to $147.27 a barrel. The bonds returned 8.7 percent and
5.2 percent, respectively, during the period.  The Central Bank of the Republic of  China  (Taiwan) raised
borrowing costs three times last year to 1.625 percent.
Singapore’s monetary authority uses the  exchange rate  rather
than  interest rates  to conduct monetary policy, adjusting the
pace of appreciation or depreciation against an undisclosed
trade-weighted band of currencies. Inflation reached 5.5 percent
in January, the fastest since December 2008.  The Taiwanese currency and the  Singapore dollar  are the
biggest gainers among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies against
the greenback in the past six months, advancing 8.8 percent and
6.1 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation Trouble  Investors “have more faith in the policy credibility in
developed Asia,” said Sanjay Mathur, head of research and
strategy for non-Japan Asia in Singapore at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, Britain’s biggest government-controlled bank.
“Their inflation is not that high.”  Bank  Indonesia  boosted its benchmark interest rate by 25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 6.75 percent on Feb.
4, the first increase in more than two years. Policy makers
refrained from raising rates again on March 4. Consumer prices
in  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy increased 6.8 percent in
February from a year earlier. Inflation was 4.3 percent that
month in the Philippines.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has kept its overnight
borrowing rate at a record-low 4 percent since 2009. Governor
Amando Tetangco said on March 2 the Philippines has less scope
to keep borrowing costs at the same level.  Western Asset favors Singapore and Hong Kong bonds, said
Rajeev de Mello, who helps oversee $469 billion as head of Asian
investment in Singapore at the Pasadena, California-based fixed-
income unit of Legg Mason Inc.  Singapore Stable    Hong Kong  and Singapore will do well,” said de Mello.
“Asia is still viewed pretty much as a safe haven from a number
of other regions. For countries which depend significantly on
oil imports that is a challenge and will cost them in terms of
growth and policy flexibility.”  Singapore is the only Asian country given the highest
investment-grade rating by Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. Hong Kong has a AAA rating from S&P,
the top ranking, while the agency rates Taiwan’s debt AA-, its
fourth-best investment-grade rating.  “I like Singapore because it’s very stable among Asian
countries, including their currency,” said Hideo Shimomura, who
helps oversee the equivalent of $73 billion as chief fund
investor in Tokyo at Mitsubishi-UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit
of Japan’s biggest bank. “They have credibility among investors
in their policies and probably will be able to cope well with
oil inflation.”  To contact the reporters for this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 