-- 
AmEx Can’t Bar Merchants’ Class Actions, Appeals Court Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-08T18:28:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/amex-can-t-bar-merchants-class-actions-appeals-court-says-1-.html
  American Express Co. (AXP)  can’t force
merchants to resolve disputes with the company individually
rather than in class-action lawsuits, a federal appeals court
said today, confirming an earlier ruling.  Retailers aren’t bound by an arbitration agreement
requiring them to press any complaints against American Express
singly, the New York-based  court ruled . The ruling and a
previous order void a clause in American Express’s contract with
merchants.  In the lawsuit, New York and California merchants contend
that American Express is illegally bundling its products through
its “honor all cards” policy. American Express argued that
merchants were barred from joining class-action, or group,
lawsuits, against the company.  The U.S. Supreme Court last year sent the case back to the
appeals court. The appeals panel confirmed its prior decision
and, in turn, today sent the case to U.S. District Judge George B. Daniels in  New York  for further proceedings.  “As we did earlier, we find Amex has brought no serious
challenge to the plaintiffs demonstration that their claims
cannot be reasonably pursued as individual actions, whether in
federal court or in arbitration,” the appeals court said.  “As the class action waiver in this case precludes
plaintiffs from enforcing their statutory rights, we find the
arbitration provision unenforceable,” the judges said.  Original Suit  The rulings grew out of a case in which retailers sued
American Express seeking the right to accept AmEx credit cards
requiring customers to pay their balances each month, without
having to accept the company’s newer credit cards, which don’t
require full payment.  The newer cards aren’t used by the high-end customers
preferred by stores and consequently aren’t worth the high fees
imposed on merchants by American Express, the merchants said in
their lawsuit.  American Express’s standard agreement with its merchants
calls for all disputes to be resolved through individual
arbitration.  Christine Elliot, a spokeswoman for New York-based American
Express, couldn’t be immediately reached for comment. Gary
Friedman, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, declined to comment
immediately, saying he was reviewing the decision.  The original lawsuit is Italian colors Restaurant v.
American Express Travel Related Services Co., 3:03-cv-03719,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  California    San
Francisco ). The appeal is In Re. American Express Merchants’
Litigation, 06-1871-cv,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 