-- 
Manchester United Will Snub Supporters Who Want to Oust the Glazer Family

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-03-08T16:59:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/manchester-united-to-snub-fans-who-want-to-oust-glazers-of-u-s-as-owners.html
Manchester United refuses to hold
talks with supporter groups that want to oust its U.S. owners,
the Premier League club’s Chief Executive Officer  David Gill 
said today.  The Glazers have faced a backlash from some of the soccer
team’s fans for raising debt against United to pay for their 790
million-pound ($1.3 billion) takeover in 2005.  United , an 18-
time English champion that was debt-free before the buyout, pays
about 45 million pounds in interest to service a 500 million-
pound bond that replaced a  bank loan  last year.  Anti-Glazer groups, ignored by United, have contacted the
Premier League in an effort to get the team to communicate with
independent fan organizations. Still, United is maintaining its
stance.  “We don’t communicate with some fan groups but they have
an avowed intention to change the ownership, so it would be
slightly strange to enter dialogue with those groups that have
those intentions,” Gill said at a London meeting with U.K.
lawmakers looking into soccer governance.  Thousands of supporters wearing green and gold protest
colors formed the backdrop to many United games last season when
details of the club’s financing were published in a prospectus
for the bond. The colors are those of Newton Heath, the team’s
original incarnation.  Fans have also complained about rising ticket prices and
the lack of big-name player acquisitions.  Even so, United has won seven major trophies under the
Glazers, including three straight English championships between
2007 and 2009 and the 2008 Champions League. The team is three
points clear at the top of the Premier League, has reached the
Champions League round-of-16, and seen a decline in fan
protests. That hasn’t convinced dissident supporters.  ‘Ridiculous’  “I think its ridiculous they don’t talk to groups like
ours,” Duncan Drasdo, CEO of the  Manchester United  Supporters
Trust, a movement that opposes the Glazers, said in an
interview. MUST has 67,000 members, of whom 15,000 hold season
tickets, Drasdo added.  In response to a question, Gill said United wasn’t an
embarrassment to the U.K. because of its finances. Instead, he
said the American owners had helped to propel the club forward
by increasing revenue.  The debt “doesn’t impact what we do,” said Gill. “There
has been no impact in terms of our transfers.”  Sales have more than doubled under the Glazers, growing by
7.1 percent to 93.2 million pounds in the three months ended
Dec. 31, compared with the year-earlier period.  Commercial Sales  Annual commercial sales have increased to 100 million
pounds from 40 million pounds since the Americans bought the
team. United has a similar amount of cash on the balance sheet,
much of it stemming from the world-record 80 million-pound sale
of forward  Cristiano Ronaldo  to Real  Madrid  in 2009.  Last month the club tried to end speculation about a
possible sale to the Qatari royal family. In a statement,
United’s board said there had been no talks and the owners
didn’t want to sell the business. Forbes Magazine estimated its
market value at $1.8 billion.  Niall Quinn, chairman of Sunderland, another Premier League
team, said part of the fans’ distrust of the Glazers may be
caused by their reluctance to speak publicly about owning the
team. The family doesn’t do media interviews about the club.  “People don’t really know what the Glazers think deep down
in their hearts,” said Quinn, addressing the same parliamentary
committee. Fans didn’t know if the owners cared about bad calls
from a referee, watched matches or “are they just taking a call
on the golf course?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  