-- 
Apple Can Function `Pretty Well' Without CEO Jobs, Co-Founder Wozniak Says

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-03-08T09:16:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/apple-can-function-pretty-well-even-if-jobs-not-there-wozniak.html
  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  can function “pretty
well” after Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs  took medical
leave of absence, co-founder Steve Wozniak said.  “Steve Jobs is only on partial leave. Even if he were to
be on total leave, we have examined it,” Wozniak, who said he
last spoke with Jobs two months back, spoke in  Singapore  today.
“Apple will go on pretty well even if he is not there
directly.”  Jobs took a leave of absence as his health deteriorates
from a bout with a rare form of cancer and the effects of a  liver transplant  he had almost two years ago, according to a
person with knowledge of the situation. The CEO has been unable
to keep on weight as he undergoes treatment for his conditions,
said the person, who requested anonymity because the matter is
private.  “I love Apple so much and hope to be back as soon as I
can,” Jobs said in an e-mail to employees in January. Jobs said
he will continue to “be involved in major strategic decisions
for the company.”  Jill Tan, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t
answer two phone calls made to her mobile phone.  Jobs and Wozniak started Apple Computer Inc. in 1976 in
Jobs’s garage in  California ’s Silicon Valley. Apple’s first
investor Mike Markkula invested $250,000 in Apple for a 33
percent stake and later served stints as president and Chairman.  Apple dropped the word “computer” from its name in 2007
after it entered the mobile-phone market with the iPhone.  The maker of iMac computers, iPhones and iPod music players
still has more room for more innovation, Wozniak said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  