-- 
Marathon Sees Market for Oil-Sands Output After Refiner Spinoff

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-03-08T17:38:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/marathon-sees-market-for-oil-sands-output-after-refiner-spinoff.html
  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  won’t have
trouble selling production from its Canadian oil-sands project,
acquired for about $6 billion in 2007, after spinning off its
fuel-making business, an executive said.  Marathon, the fourth-biggest U.S. integrated  oil company ,
announced Jan. 13 it planned to spin off its refining business
as Marathon Petroleum Corp. In 2007, it bought a 20 percent
stake in the Athabasca Oil Sands project, citing savings from
processing the crude at its own refineries.  Marathon forecast costs $3.50 a barrel below competitors’
because it could process the crude at its Detroit refinery and
other plants, Gary R. Heminger, executive vice president for
downstream said during a Nov. 1, 2007 conference call.  “The integration’s not as complete as we once
envisioned,” Mike Palmer, a vice president of crude supply at
the Marathon Petroleum unit said today in an interview at
 CERAWeek , a Houston conference held by IHS Cambridge Energy
Research Associates. “Both entities will be able to take
advantage of the market.”  Marathon Oil Corp., which will operate the  oil sands  and
other exploration and production operations, will be able to
sell the oil on the open market, and Marathon Petroleum Corp.
will be able to supply the refineries from a variety of Canadian
heavy-crude producers, he said.  Marathon imported a total of 3.15 million barrels of
Canadian crude to refineries in Michigan, Ohio,  Illinois  and
Louisiana in December, the last month for which data is
available, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Marathon’s refineries can “pick and choose” among
Canadian heavy crudes, as well as imports from outside  North
America , Palmer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  