-- 
Marine Corps F-35 Making ‘Significant Progress,’ Amos Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-08T19:30:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/marine-corps-f-35-jet-making-significant-progress-amos-says.html
The U.S. Marine Corps version of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 fighter “has made significant
progress” this year, including doubling in two months the
number of successful vertical landings it made all last year,
the service’s top officer said today.  The F-35B tests have included 22 vertical landings since
January, compared with 11 in 2010, the Marine Corps commandant,
General James Amos, told the Senate Armed Services Committee
today in prepared testimony.  “I am confident that we will field this aircraft in
accordance with responsible timelines,” Amos said. “This
matter has my unwavering attention and I am personally
overseeing this program.”  Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  in January decided to put
the Marine Corps F-35, designed for short takeoffs and vertical
landings, on a two-year “probation” to give Lockheed Martin
more time to demonstrate the fighter’s reliability.  Navy Secretary Ray Mabus told the panel that the Marine
Corps’ goal over the next two year is to demonstrate that the
aircraft’s problems can be solved without exceeding weight and
cost limits.  The Marines’ short-takeoff and vertical-landing aircraft,
the most complex version of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, has
had flight-test schedule delays, some caused by parts shortages.  Lockheed Martin rose 90 cents to $80.20 at 2:26 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Parts More Reliable  The F-35 deputy program manager, Air Force Major General
C.D. Moore, said in an interview that the increased vertical
landings are in part due to a greater understanding of how
aerodynamics has hurt the reliability of some F-35B components.  “I’m please at how quickly we’ve been able to understand
those” issues “that were limiting us before,” he said last
week.  Last year “we were pulling engines and reinstalling
engines” to replace unreliable parts, Moore said.  “Once you get reliable parts, and not pulling engines, all
you have to do is fly,” Moore said. “That’s what we are
doing.”  Moore said a test milestone this year is starting ship-
board takeoffs and landing exercises, an event scheduled to
start in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tony Capaccio  in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  