-- 
Most Asian Stocks Rise as Hitachi Advances, While Chip-Related Shares Drop

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 
2011-03-08T10:34:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/asian-stocks-fluctuate-as-chip-related-shares-drop-while-hitachi-climbs.html
Most Asian stocks rose as Chinese
banks advanced on speculation the country’s regulators will stop
measures to cool lending, and as asset sales and purchases
boosted Hitachi Ltd. and Terumo Corp. in Japan.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of  China  Ltd., the nation’s
largest lender, and China Construction Bank Corp. increased at
least 0.5 percent in  Hong Kong  after Reuters said China canceled
plans to boost some banks’ required reserves. Hitachi gained 1.8
percent in Tokyo after agreeing to sell a unit that makes hard-
disk drives. Terumo climbed 3.2 percent after saying it will buy
a unit from Gambro AB to become the world’s biggest producer of
blood-transfusion equipment.  About five stocks rose for every four that fell on the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index, which was little changed at 138.18 as of
7:26 p.m. in Tokyo. The gauge climbed 1.9 percent last week as
better-than-estimated economic data from  South Korea  to the U.S.
bolstered confidence in a global recovery, overcoming concern
that Middle East unrest will boost  oil prices  and slow growth.  “There’s a tug of war going on between an improving U.S.
economy on the positive side, and unrest in the Middle East
sending oil higher on the negative side,” said Koichi Kurose,
chief strategist in Tokyo at Resona Bank Ltd., which oversees
about $57 billion in assets. “Each side is getting stronger.”  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average climbed 0.2 percent, while
the broader Topix sank 0.3 percent.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200
Index gained 0.2 percent and South Korea’s Kospi Index increased
0.8 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.1
percent.  Chinese Banks Gain  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 1.7 percent, the most
among major Asia-Pacific benchmark indexes. China canceled
punitive increases of required reserves previously imposed on
several banks, Reuters said today, citing two unidentified
people. The report didn’t name the banks. Industrial &
Commercial Bank gained 0.8 percent to HK$6.19, while China
Construction Bank advanced 1.6 percent to HK$7.06.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.4
percent today. The index slid 0.8 percent yesterday in  New York 
as escalating violence in  Libya  drove oil prices higher and chip
companies tumbled after the Wells Fargo rating.  Oil fell for the first time in three days, retreating from
a 29-month high yesterday, as speculation that fighting may
subside in Libya eased concern supply cuts will spread through
the Middle East.  Hitachi, Terumo  Hitachi rose 1.8 percent to 514 yen in Tokyo after agreeing
to sell to Western Digital Corp. its Hitachi Global Storage
Technologies unit in a cash and stock transaction valued at
about $4.3 billion. The sale would be the biggest divestment for
Hitachi, which seeks to focus on making  power plants , trains and
other infrastructure facilities.  Terumo jumped 3.2 percent to 4,640 yen after offering to
buy Gambro’s CaridianBCT unit for $2.63 billion. The acquisition
will make Terumo the world’s biggest maker of blood-transfusion
equipment, overtaking Haemonetics Corp., the company said.  TDK Corp., the world’s largest maker of magnetic heads for
disk drives, climbed 1 percent to 5,570 yen after Barclays Plc
raised its share-price forecast to 5,700 yen from 5,300 yen.
Kyocera Corp., maker of electronic components, increased 1.2
percent to 8,480 yen after Barclays raised its rating to
“overweight” from “equalweight.”  Semiconductor-related shares sank the most among 24 groups
in the S&P 500 yesterday after Wells Fargo cut its industry
rating to “market weight” from “overweight,” citing the 125
percent gain in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index over the
past two years. The downgrade “is more an indication of a more
moderate though still optimistic view of the sector rather than
any active concern about the chip stocks as a group,” Wells
Fargo said in a report dated March 7.  Chip Shares Decline  Hynix Semiconductor Inc., the world’s No. 2 maker of
computer-memory chips, slid 0.9 percent to 28,650 won in  Seoul .
Tokyo Electron Ltd., the world’s second-largest manufacturer of
chip-making gear, lost 1.1 percent to 5,230 yen in Tokyo. Shinko
Electric Industries Co., a maker of connectors and mounts for
semiconductors, sank 3.9 percent to 938 yen after Barclays cut
the stock to “underweight” from “equalweight.”  Shipping lines dropped the most among the 33 industry
groups in Japan’s Topix index. Nippon Yusen K.K.,  Asia ’s largest
listed line, retreated 2.5 percent to 346 yen in Tokyo after
saying it may slow vessel speeds to cut fuel costs. Mitsui O.S.K.
Lines Ltd., which operates the world’s biggest merchant fleet,
dropped 1.5 percent to 532 yen and Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd.
fell 2.8 percent in Tokyo.  Keppel, Hyflux Orders  “The rising price of oil is becoming a thorny issue,”
Mikitoshi Kai, head of  investor relations  at Nippon Yusen, said
in an interview yesterday. The line may reduce sailing speeds by
as much as 2 knots after previously slowing vessels to about 20
knots from about 24 knots, he said.  Keppel Corp., the world’s biggest builder of oil rigs,
climbed 3.4 percent to S$12.10, the second-steepest percentage
gain in  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index, after receiving a $195
million order to build a rig for Perforadora Central SA de CV of  Mexico .    Hyflux Ltd. (HYF) , Singapore’s biggest provider of water-
treatment services, surged 12 percent to S$2.05 after winning a
contract to build the country’s second desalination facility.
The project will cost S$890 million ($702 million).  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 0.3 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with gains of 4.2 percent by the S&P
500 and 1.8 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Shares in the
Asian benchmark were valued at 13.9 times estimated earnings on
average as of the last close, compared with 13.6 times for the
S&P 500 and 11.2 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 