-- 
Stocks Advance as Crude Oil Retreats, Sprint, Banks Rally; Euro Declines

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-03-08T17:16:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/asian-stocks-fluctuate-bonds-advance-on-inflation-concern-libya-fighting.html
U.S. stocks rose, halting a two-day
slump, as Bank of America Corp. said its mortgage business is
recovering and Sprint Nextel Corp. rallied on deal speculation.
The euro slid amid concern leaders won’t agree on a solution to  Europe ’s debt crisis. Oil retreated from a 29-month high.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 1.1 percent to
1,324.81, with Sprint Nextel rallying 4.7 percent on a Bloomberg
News report that Deutsche Telekom AG may sell its T-Mobile USA
unit in exchange for a major stake in the combined company. Oil
lost 1.2 percent on speculation OPEC will boost production. Ten-
year Greek bond yield jumped 51 basis points to 12.84 percent
and costs to protect the nation’s debt from default reached an
all-time high after borrowing costs increased at a debt auction.  Sprint Nextel’s talks with Deutsche Telekom fueled optimism
that an acceleration in takeovers will boost benchmark indexes
that already have almost doubled from bear-market lows two years
ago. About $417 billion in global deals have been announced so
far in 2011, up 14 percent from the same period last year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The drop in oil alleviated concern
that rising energy costs will hurt the economic rebound.  “Any reversal of the upward price pressure on oil is
positive for the broad market,” said Gina Martin Adams, equity
strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . “We’ve priced in a lot of
concern about higher energy prices, so there’s some relief now
as we see a reversal of that trend. The dollar moving positive
is a negative for oil and energy, which is also a part of
today’s trading.”  OPEC Discussions  Banks in the  S&P 500  climbed 3 percent as a group, the
biggest advance among 24 industries. Bank of America, the
largest U.S. lender, rallied 4.2 percent after saying its
residential mortgage business is in “recovery mode” after
contributing to a net loss last year. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Wells Fargo & Co. climbed at least 2.8 percent.  MDC Holdings Inc. led a rally among all 12 homebuilders in
S&P indexes after Credit Suisse Group Inc. advised buying the
shares.  Oil declined after  Kuwait ’s oil minister said Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries are considering whether to
convene an “urgent meeting. Futures trimmed losses as opponents
of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  seek to recapture Bin Jawad and
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch
raised oil-price forecasts.  The 10-year Treasury note slipped, sending its yield up two
basis points to 3.54 percent.  European Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.4 percent, erasing an
earlier slide of 0.5 percent. Deutsche Telekom climbed 4 percent
in  Frankfurt  to help lead telephone stocks to the biggest
advance among 19 groups.  The euro lost 0.3 percent versus the Swedish krona and 0.1
percent per pound. The extra yield between 10-year Greek bonds
and similar-maturity German bunds, the region’s benchmark
government securities, climbed 48 basis points to 954 basis
points, the most in two months.    Greece  sold 1.625 billion euros ($2.3 billion) the 26-week
bills today to yield 4.75 percent, up from 4.64 percent at the
last auction. Investors requested 3.59 times the securities on
sale, compared with 4.54 times at the previous auction on Feb.
8, the Athens-based Public Debt Management Agency said.  The yield on  Spain ’s 10-year note increased 10 basis points
to 5.48 percent. The country plans to sell 15-year bonds in
euros, according to a banker involved in the deal.  Germany  said
it will auction six-billion euros of two-year notes on March 16.  Emerging Markets  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.4 percent, its
seventh increase in eight days.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index gained 1.2 percent, the most in a week, as a
partner in Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government delayed a
decision to withdraw from the coalition.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Persian Gulf stocks gained
2.1 percent, its fourth straight advance, after an official said
the Gulf Cooperation Council may discuss aid to help Bahrain and
Oman quell political unrest. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  rallied 4.3
percent, the biggest gain since Dec. 2. Benchmark gauges for  Saudi Arabia  and Dubai climbed more than 2 percent.  The S&P GSCI spot index of 24 commodities dropped 0.9
percent. Wheat fell 0.8 percent. Arabica coffee rose 1.8 percent
on reduced inventories of growers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  