-- 
Australian Climate Plan Has `Backfired' on Gillard, Lawmaker Windsor Says

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-09T02:34:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/australia-climate-plan-has-backfired-on-gillard-lawmaker-says.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard ’s mishandling of a push for  climate change  laws may
prevent her from actually submitting the legislation to
parliament, independent lawmaker  Tony Windsor  said.  Gillard’s support fell to a record low in a Newspoll
published in the Australian newspaper yesterday as voters
rejected her plans to tackle climate change. The government
wants to introduce a carbon price next year before moving to
emissions trading as early as 2015.  “People want to see the detail of the climate plan rather
than just the framework,” said Windsor, one of four
independents the government needs to pass laws and a member of
its multiparty climate change committee. “This has backfired on
the government.”  Gillard revisited climate-change plans that helped
undermine her predecessor,  Kevin Rudd , who was ousted last year
by the  Labor Party . Rudd’s popularity plunged after he shelved
the carbon strategy and announced a tax on miners like  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest.  “I will be having discussions with Tony Windsor,” Climate
Change Minister  Greg Combet  told Australian Broadcasting Corp.
radio today. “He is very important, so obviously I will be
talking to him about this issue.”  Voter Opposition  About 53 percent of voters oppose Gillard’s plan announced
Feb. 24, the Newspoll said. Companies including  BlueScope Steel
Ltd. (BSL) , Rio Tinto Group and  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  have urged
changes and the government said living costs will rise as a
result.  The multiparty climate change committee, which will
recommend a strategy before the government introduces laws to
parliament, is next due to meet on March 18.  “Opinion polls reflect what people think of the
government’s approach,” Windsor said today in a phone interview
from Bundarra, New South Wales state. “I agree that the
framework should have been released, not that I agree with the
framework. I want to get more information on the carbon price
and how the  emissions trading  scheme will work.”  Ninety-nine of 106 people surveyed by the Northern Daily
Leader, a newspaper in Windsor’s electorate, said they did not
think a carbon tax was a reasonable way to address climate
change. The Tamworth-based newspaper published the results of
the on-line poll on March 5 and it did not include a margin of
error.  Seeking Support  Gillard’s minority Labor government needs the support of
four non-party lawmakers to pass laws after the August 2010
election delivered the closest result in 70 years. Windsor,
fellow independents  Rob Oakeshott  and Andrew Wilkie joined the
Greens party’s Adam Bandt to back Labor.  Combet has said the carbon price would affect 1,000
Australian companies. According to the government’s greenhouse
register for the year ended June 30, 2010, the biggest polluters
were power generators led by Macquarie Generation and Delta
Electricity.  “We knew it would be a difficult argument,” Combet told
ABC today. “It is important to see beyond the day-to-day
politics.”  The government will use proceeds from the levy to
compensate industry, households and fund clean energy projects
to create jobs, Combet said without detailing the compensation.  Countries are already spending billions of dollars to
reduce emissions and promote renewable energy. Low-carbon energy
investment surged to a record $243 billion last year, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said on March 2.  The government and opposition have agreed to reduce
emissions at least 5 percent by 2020, yet with different policy
approaches. The coalition wants to plant more trees and
encourage sequestration of carbon in soil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  