-- 
Australia Labor Government Support Drops to Record on Climate Change Plan

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-08T05:05:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/australia-labor-government-support-drops-on-climate-change-plan.html
The Australian Labor government’s
support fell to a record low as Prime Minister  Julia Gillard 
pushes climate laws meant to reduce  greenhouse gases  in the
world’s biggest shipper of coal.  The government’s primary voter support fell to 30 percent,
the lowest on record, from 36 percent two weeks ago, according
to a Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper today. Some
53 percent of voters opposed Gillard’s plan to set a carbon
price from July 2012, three to five years before an emissions
trading program starts. The poll had a margin of error of 3
percentage points.  Gillard has revived the climate-change plan that
contributed to the ouster of  Kevin Rudd  last year and made it a
policy centerpiece. Companies like  Bluescope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Rio
Tinto Group and  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  have urged changes and
the government said living costs will rise as a result.  “People don’t like the carbon plan because they’ll have to
pay for it,” said Rick Kuhn, a political scientist at the  Australian National University  in Canberra. “It was supposed to
be this government’s heroic measure but it has been tactically
inept in selling it.”  Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet  has said the carbon
price, the level of which has not been announced, would affect
1,000 Australian companies. The plan would increase costs for
households and the government will compensate low income earners
and retirees with subsidies, he said March 7.  Gillard’s support also fell to its lowest point since she
became leader last June, with 39 percent saying they were
satisfied with her performance compared with 50 percent two
weeks ago, the poll of 1,122 people said.  Lawmaker Opposition  Gillard’s plan, announced Feb. 24, has faced opposition
from one independent lawmaker who lent his support for her to
form a government as well as from the opposition Liberal-
National coalition. Gillard holds power by one seat in the lower
house, thanks to the backing of four non-party lawmakers. The
August 2010 election delivered the closest result in 70 years.  “The politics of getting this across the line is
paramount,” said Anthony Hobley, a Sydney-based lawyer and
climate-change specialist at Norton Rose LLP. “It will be
Gillard’s biggest test to get consensus on this enormous
reform.”  Countries are already spending billions of dollars to
reduce emissions and promote renewable energy. Low-carbon energy
investment surged to a record $243 billion last year, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said on March 2.    Australia ’s government and opposition have agreed to reduce
gases at least 5 percent by 2020, yet with different policy
approaches. The coalition wants to plant more trees and
encourage separating sequestration of carbon in soil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  