-- 
Bahrain to Try Awal, TIBC Officials in Criminal Court, BNA Says

-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 
2011-03-08T16:27:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bahrain-to-try-awal-tibc-officials-in-criminal-court-bna-says.html
A Bahraini criminal court will try
some officials of two banks at the center of a dispute between
Saudi billionaire Maan al-Sanea and the Algosaibi family, the
state-run news agency reported.  The unidentified officials from Algosaibi’s Manama-based
The International Banking Corp. and al-Sanea’s Awal Bank BSC,
which both defaulted in 2009, are charged of violating the
central bank’s financial institutions and commercial companies’
law, the state news agency reported on March 5, citing public
prosecutor Nawaf Abdulla Hamza. The trial may start on March 14,
the news agency said. Investigations into suspected  money
laundering , fraud and forgery are still continuing, BNA
reported.  The dispute between Algosaibi and the founder of Saad
Group, Maan al-Sanea, marked the largest default in the kingdom
to come out of the financial crisis. Units of the two family
groups borrowed at least $15.7 billion from more than 80
regional and international banks, including Paris-based  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  SA, New York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Arab Bank Plc (ARBK)  in
Amman, Jordan, documents provided by lenders in 2009 show.  Simon Charlton, an adviser to Algosaibi, welcomed the trial
to punish any official at TIBC involved in any wrongdoing.  “The evidence in this matter shows an abuse of the world’s
financial system and Bahrain’s swift action should be a standard
for other regulators and criminal prosecutors around the world
where this crime played out,” Charlton, also a managing
director of Deloitte Corporate Finance in Dubai, said in an e-
mailed statement today. A spokesman of all-Sanea’s  Saad Group 
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Algosaibi and Saad Group are facing court battles across
the globe to fend off international creditor banks. Five cases
are to be brought in the London Commercial Court in June,
according to a Cayman Islands court filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camilla Hall in Dubai at   chall24@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at or 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  