-- 
Bank of Nova Scotia Reports Record Profit, Raises Its Quarterly Dividend

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-03-08T21:18:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bank-of-nova-scotia-reports-record-profit-raises-its-quarterly-dividend.html
  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ,  Canada ’s third-
largest bank, raised its dividend for the first time in almost
three years after first-quarter profit rose to a record on
mortgage lending.  Net income for the period ended Jan. 31 climbed 19 percent
to C$1.17 billion ($1.2 billion) or C$1.07 a share, from C$988
million, or 91 cents, a year earlier, the Toronto-based lender
said today in a statement. The bank said it earned C$1.09 a
share before one-time items, topping the C$1.06 a share average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 15 analysts.  Scotiabank, the sixth of Canada’s biggest banks to report
results that beat analysts’ estimates, said its domestic bank
benefited from a surge in mortgage lending. Canadian  home prices 
have increased 15 percent over the last two years, according to
the Teranet-National Bank House Price Index.  The Canadian housing market “still looks to be fairly
vibrant,” said  Ian Nakamoto , director of research at MacDougall
MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages about C$4
billion in assets, including Scotiabank shares. “I would have
thought the rate of growth of mortgages would be tapering off by
now, but it doesn’t seem to be.”  Higher Dividend  The company boosted its dividend 3 cents, or 6.1 percent,
to 52 cents a share, the first increase since May 2008. Toronto-
Dominion Bank, the country’s second-largest lender, raised its
quarterly payout last week.  Scotiabank fell 86 cents, or 1.4 percent, to C$59.29 in 4
p.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have
risen 3.8 percent this year, compared with a 10 percent gain on
the 10-member S&P/TSX Banks Index.  Scotiabank’s results were “more middle of the pack and not
as strong as some of its peers,” said  John Aiken , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in Toronto. “We believe there are some issues
surrounding its earnings quality resulting from strong trading
revenues and a lower than anticipated  tax rate .”  Domestic consumer banking climbed 14 percent to C$496
million, led by a 9 percent increase in residential mortgages.  International banking, which includes countries such as
Mexico, Peru and Thailand, surged 35 percent to C$342 million.
The bank cited last year’s acquisition of R-G Premier Bank in  Puerto Rico , as well as increases in commercial lending.  Investment-banking profit declined 19 percent to C$308
million because of lower revenue and higher compensation costs.
Profit from the bank’s new wealth-management business, which
includes mutual fund sales, climbed 18 percent to C$216 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 