-- 
Banking Queen Botin Plans U.K. IPO in Santander Succession Test

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-03-08T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/banking-queen-botin-plans-u-k-ipo-seen-determining-santander-succession.html
Ana Patricia Botin, the boss’s
daughter, has come to the U.K., where she will have the chance
to prove she can lead the bank in  Spain  that her family has run
for more than six decades.  With her appointment as chief executive officer of  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) ’s U.K. unit in November, Botin became the most
powerful woman in  London  finance. Now, if she can repair the
bank’s customer-service reputation and pull off an initial
public offering, she will have improved her odds of succeeding
her father, 76-year-old Chairman  Emilio Botin , who built
Santander into the euro region’s most valuable lender through
more than $70 billion of acquisitions.  “What she wanted, she usually got,” said Jose de Ochoa,
who worked with Ana Botin expanding Santander in Latin America,
including the 1997 purchase of Colombian lender Bancoquia.  London will be the toughest test yet for Botin, 50, whose
performance is being closely watched in Spain, where Botins have
helped manage Santander for 115 years. She takes charge after
former U.K. head Antonio Horta-Osorio defected to lead rival  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  An IPO was postponed this year, and
Botin will have to explain to investors that Santander’s outlook
is solid at a time of doubt about Spain’s banking system, said  Simon Maughan , an analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in London.  Lloyds, RBS  Engineering an IPO won’t be an easy job for Botin as
mortgage lending in the U.K. is shrinking,  interest rates  are
rising and Santander’s biggest competitors, Lloyds and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , are regrouping after bailouts.  The Santander, Spain-based bank may sell as much as 25
percent of its U.K. unit, which includes the former Abbey
National, according to a person with knowledge of the talks who
declined to be identified because the information isn’t public.
The offering will probably take place in the fourth quarter of
this year, Emilio Botin said Feb. 3.  Selling a 20 percent stake in the U.K. unit may raise about
4 billion pounds ($6.5 billion), said Arturo de Frias, head of
banking research at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London. That
would make it the biggest IPO in the U.K. since Moscow-based  VTB
Bank OJSC (VTBR)  raised $8 billion in May 2007. And it could help
increase Santander’s core Tier 1 ratio, a gauge of financial
strength, to more than 9 percent from about 8.8 percent, de
Frias said.  ‘Most-Complained-About’  Ana Botin, who declined to be interviewed, also will have
to address the bank’s reputation for poor customer service.
Santander was dubbed Britain’s  “most-complained-about bank”  in
September by Which?, a U.K. consumer magazine, after the lender
received 216,958 complaints, or eight per 1,000 accounts, in the
first six months of last year. The bank said in December it
mistakenly mailed as many as 35,000 statements to the wrong
people in the U.K., sharing customers’ financial details.  In an appearance before the House of Commons Treasury
Committee on Jan. 18, Botin said Santander hired 1,000 people in
the U.K. to augment service.  “We are beginning to improve, but there is a lot of work
to be done,” she said.  The bank intends to bolster service by building closer
relationships between staff and clients, a feature of retail
banking in Spain, Botin told 2,500 managers at the Earls Court
exhibition center in London in late February, according to an
executive who attended the event and asked not to be identified
in line with company policy.  Business Lending  Botin, who boosted lending to small and medium-sized
businesses at Banco Espanol de Credito SA, or Banesto, the
retail arm of Santander she ran before moving to London, wants
to do the same in the U.K., where 80 percent of the bank’s
business is with retail customers, the person said. She has
brought in executives she worked with at Banesto, including
Chief Risk Officer Jose Maria Nus, to replace those who left for
Lloyds with Horta-Osorio.  Her other priority, she told managers, is increasing
profitability and efficiency as she prepares for the IPO. Profit
at the unit rose to 1.7 billion pounds last year from 1.5
billion pounds in 2009, the bank reported on Feb. 3.  Botin ranked 38th on Forbes magazine’s list of the world’s
 most powerful women  last year, three notches ahead of the Queen
of England. One of only two women on Santander’s 20-member
board, she has been proving herself since she took her first
banking job in  Madrid  as a 20-year-old. One of her earliest
bosses, Martin Benegas, a former head of J.P. Morgan & Co.’s
loan-transaction unit in  New York , said he was impressed with
her as a hard-working team player.  “It was a pure meritocracy, and she came in on her own
merits,” said Benegas, who hired her in the mid-1980s to trade
Latin American loans and is now a partner at Delphos Investment,
a consulting, asset-management and financial-services firm in
Buenos Aires. “She always wanted to do better and improve.”  Growing Up ‘Normal’  The eldest of six children told Santander’s in-house
magazine in 2005 that she had never considered “whether I’m a
Botin or not” since starting at the bank in 1988. The article
talked about her growing up in a “normal” household, where
she’d make her own bed and her father would sometimes eat
sardines from a can for breakfast. Her mother, Paloma O’Shea, is
a pianist and arts patron.  In that interview, she described how her father offered her
the job running Banesto in 2002.  “He looked at me in such a way that I realized I had
exactly 10 seconds” to decide, she said.  Profit Decline  Emilio Botin has run Santander for 25 years, building it
from the sixth-largest Spanish lender to the biggest, with
179,000 employees and 1.2 trillion euros ($1.7 trillion) in
assets, about the size of the entire Spanish economy. He is the
third member of his family to be chairman of Santander, though
the Botins control only about 2 percent of the shares. He was
52, two years older than his daughter is now, when he succeeded
his father as chairman in 1986.  “There’s always going to be the issue of who her father
is,” said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage about 15
billion pounds at Rathbone Brothers Plc in London. “She comes
with a reasonable reputation, so let’s see how she gets on.”  Santander grew through the global financial crisis, adding
300 billion euros of assets since 2007. Profit dipped last year
to 8.18 billion euros, down about 10 percent from the peak. The
bank earned 26 billion euros in the previous three years.  Shares have declined 21 percent over the past year compared
with a 3 percent drop in the 48-member Bloomberg  Europe  Banks
and Financial Services Index.  After buying Abbey National in 2004, Santander expanded its
presence in the U.K. by purchasing Alliance & Leicester Plc and
parts of Bradford & Bingley Plc. It acquired more than 300
branches from Edinburgh-based RBS last year, bringing its total
to about 1,400 branches across Britain, compared with 2,900 for
Lloyds. It is now the U.K.’s second-largest mortgage lender.  Leaving Banesto  The younger Botin left Banesto in November as falling
lending revenue and rising bad loans from the financial crisis
caused 2010 profit to decline 18 percent to 460 million euros,
or 5.5 percent less than in 2002, when she took over.  Banesto earned 1.18 billion euros of pretax gains from the
2006 sale of its 50 percent stake in developer Inmobiliaria
Urbis SA, a year before Spain’s property crash. Return on
equity, a measure of profitability, was 17.3 percent when Botin
arrived and 8.4 percent when she left.  “She did pretty well,” said Daragh Quinn, an analyst at
Nomura International Plc in Madrid. “They sold their real
estate company at the top of the cycle, and they seem to have
managed their exposure to property reasonably well. On the other
hand, Banesto is not an independent company, so that makes it
harder to judge her individual performance.”  Belgravia Home  The move to London opens new doors for Botin, said Mauro Guillen, a professor of international management at the Wharton
School at the University of  Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia and co-
author of a 2008 history of Santander.  “It’s very clever for Santander to have Ana Patricia Botin
in the City of London -- it’s quite brilliant frankly,” Guillen
said. “Not only does she learn more about running the bank, but
she builds some relationships that will be important when, and
if, she takes over from her father.”  Botin’s husband, banker Guillermo Morenes, last year bought
a six-bedroom home in Belgravia, one of London’s wealthiest
neighborhoods, according to documents at the Land Registry. A
similarly sized adjacent property sold for more than 16 million
pounds in 2009, records show. The seven-story home is part of a
terraced development set behind security gates and landscaped
gardens with underground parking and 18-hour-a-day concierge
service, according to the marketing details for other houses in
the enclave. The house has staff quarters, a cinema, an elevator
and a wine room.  Madoff Complaint  Morenes made headlines in 2008 when M&B Capital Advisers, a
brokerage he founded with his wife’s brother Javier, reported it
invested 137 million euros in client funds with  Bernard Madoff ,
who is serving a 150-year sentence for operating a Ponzi scheme.    Irving Picard , the trustee liquidating Madoff’s former
firm, filed a complaint against M&B in December, saying it
helped Zurich-based  UBS AG (UBSN)  found and distribute a feeder fund
for the convicted swindler. The brokerage also started its own
feeder fund that “herded” new investors to Madoff as it
“obtained millions in fees for also ignoring red flags of
fraud,” according to the complaint.  Morenes declined to comment for this story. A spokeswoman
for Javier Botin’s firm, JB Capital Markets, who asked not to be
named in line with company policy, also declined to comment.  Junior Golf Champion  Botin earned 3.08 million euros in fixed and variable pay
in 2009, and Santander kept her base salary unchanged at 1.29
million euros for 2010, according to the bank’s appointment and
compensation committee report. She has accrued a pension of 23.8
million euros, compared with 24.6 million euros for her father
and 85.7 million euros for Santander CEO Alfredo Saenz.  By comparison, Lloyds’s former CEO,  Eric Daniels , is
entitled to receive a pension valued at 3.8 million pounds, or
192,000 pounds a year, according to the bank’s 2009 annual
report. He was paid a salary of 1 million pounds last year and
awarded a 1.5 million-pound bonus.  Botin was educated by nuns at Slaves of the Sacred Heart, a
school close to her family home in the Spanish port city of
Santander, and also in Switzerland and the U.K. She excelled at
golf, becoming Spanish junior champion in 1973 and 1974 with a
handicap of six. A 1981 economics graduate of Bryn Mawr College
in Pennsylvania, she speaks five languages.  ‘Results Oriented’  Her banking career began immediately after college. She
worked at J.P. Morgan, now part of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , first
in Madrid and then in New York, becoming a vice president at 24.
She left J.P. Morgan after eight years for Santander at the
invitation of Carlos Garcia, then general director of
Santander’s international division. She became a director of the
bank the same year, at the age of 28.  Through the 1990s, Botin took on greater responsibilities,
becoming head of investment banking in 1991. In 1994, she was
chosen to run corporate banking for Latin America and southern
Europe and led the bank’s international growth with acquisitions
from Argentina to Colombia and Mexico.  By 1997, Santander Investment had 1,980 employees and
accounted for 9 percent of the company’s personnel costs,
according to the bank’s annual report for that year. As head of
the bank’s business in the Americas, she was in charge of 50,000
people. She was 37 at the time.  “I remember her style as being very results oriented and
very determined in very long negotiations with sellers,” said
de Ochoa, who worked on her buyout team as she studied potential
deals and is now senior director in Spain of New York-based
financial-industry consulting firm  Alvarez & Marsal Inc.   Expansion Interrupted  Botin’s expansion drive was interrupted by a 1998 market
slump caused by Russia’s debt default and economic crisis in  Asia . Within months of hiring a regional equities team from Hong
Kong’s Peregrine Investment Holdings, she was forced to cut 300
jobs in Santander’s worldwide equities and fixed-income
businesses, including most of the Peregrine staff.  The bank later wound down the Santander Investment brand
and focused on the retail business.  Botin gave up her executive roles at the bank in 1999,
after the acquisition of Banco Central Hispano SA, then Spain’s
third-largest lender, and amid speculation about her future role
and that of Angel Corcostegui, the CEO of BCH. Her father
brought her back when Corcostegui stepped down in 2002, tapping
her to run Banesto.  ‘Detonator’ Contract  She quickly made her mark at the retail bank when it won a
contract to manage Spanish justice-system accounts in 2002,
beating out  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-
largest bank, which had done the work for 18 years.  “She involved herself directly” in the planning of
Banesto’s bid, which produced spinoff benefits for the lender,
including the bank accounts of 60,000 legal professionals, said
Gregorio Garcia Torres, director of professional collectives and
judicial business at Banesto. Botin herself called winning the
contract a “detonator” that showed Banesto could compete with
Spain’s best banks.  Botin isn’t a sure thing to succeed her father, said
Guillen, who co-wrote the Santander history, “Building a Global
Bank” (Princeton University Press).  Saenz, 68, second in command at Santander, is awaiting a
Supreme Court ruling in a case that could bar him from banking.
He was found guilty in a 2009 lower-court ruling in a case in
which he and other executives were accused of making a false
accusation in 1994 when he was chairman of Banesto. He has
denied wrongdoing.  ‘Boss’s Daughter’  Francisco Luzon, 63, head of Santander’s Latin American
business, may be a contender because he has experience leading a
bank as a former chairman of Argentaria SA, which became part of
BBVA, Guillen said. Matias Rodriguez Inciarte, 62, a vice
chairman who oversees the risk committee and has been on the
board since 1988, is a close Botin lieutenant, though his lack
of executive experience may count against him, Guillen said. The
naming of a chairman from outside the bank is unlikely, he said.  A Santander spokesman declined to comment on the bank’s
succession plans. Emilio Botin declined to discuss the issue at
his Feb. 3 news conference.  “I think it would be pretty hard to get to be CEO just
because you’re the boss’s daughter,” said Ann Cairns, head of
the financial-industry advisory group in Europe at Alvarez &
Marsal and a former CEO of transaction banking at ABN Amro
Holding NV. “Actually, it’s more pressure to some extent.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Charles Penty at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  