-- 
Barclays Recommends Bets Five-Year Chile Inflation Declines

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-03-08T21:49:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/barclays-recommends-betting-five-year-chile-inflation-declines.html
Chile’s five-year breakeven
inflation rate may fall from a two-year high after the central
bank signaled it was concerned about price increases,  Barclays
Capital  said.  Five-year breakeven, a measure of the average future
inflation rate priced into the interest-rate swaps market, may
fall as far as 3.35 percent, Barclays analysts wrote today in a
note to clients. Five-year breakeven rose to 3.96 percent on
March 2 from 3.29 percent on Jan. 3 when the central bank
announced plans to buy $12 billion of U.S. dollars, raising
concern that the price of imports would rise as the currency
weakened. The rate slid to 5 basis points today to 3.83 percent.  The dollar-buying program, accompanied by a pause in
interest-rate increases in January, exacerbated the impact of
rising food and fuel costs on inflation expectations. Minutes
from the bank’s February policy meeting, published on March 4,
showed policy makers considered raising rates faster than a
quarter-point a month to control rising inflation expectations.  “The central bank is starting to refocus on inflation
expectations,” said  Roberto Melzi , a strategist at Barclays
Capital in  New York . “It has already signaled that in the
minutes.”  BNP Paribas SA has a recommendation that investors bet
Chile’s five-year breakeven inflation reaches 4.2 percent. The
French bank first recommended the trade on Feb. 3 with five-year
breakeven at 3.55 percent, it said in a note on March 4. Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc today closed a recommendation on
betting Chilean two-year interest-rate swap rates fall.  Economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Banchile
Inversiones and Banco de Credito & Inversiones warned the bank
may consider a 50 basis point increase at its next meeting on
March 17. Economists at Larrain Vial SA said in a note to
clients today that they expect policy makers will accelerate the
pace of interest-rate rises to 50 basis points this month.  None of 40 major rate-setting institutions tracked by
Bloomberg has raised its benchmark rate more than  Chile  in the
last 12 months. Brazil and Chile are tied on 3 percentage points
of rate rises in the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  