-- 
Bayer, Ajinomoto, Lady Gaga: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-03-08T12:01:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bayer-drb-hicom-ajinomoto-lady-gaga-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. Supreme Court, rebuffing
calls to scrutinize “pay for delay” drug settlements, refused
to revive a suit accusing  Bayer AG (BAYN)  of paying almost $400 million
to forestall competition to its Cipro antibiotic.  The court, without comment, rejected an appeal yesterday
from drugstore chains that sought to press an antitrust suit
over a 1997 settlement between Bayer and Barr Laboratories Inc.,
now part of  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  Under the
accord, Bayer paid Barr $398 million, while Barr dropped its
challenge to a Bayer patent and agreed not to sell a generic
version of Cipro until June 2003.  Opponents say such settlements are rampant in the  drug
industry , costing consumers $3.5 billion a year, according to
the Federal Trade Commission, which has led the criticism.
Consumer advocates and 32 states joined the pharmacies and a
drug wholesaler in urging Supreme Court review.  The group includes two of the three largest U.S. drugstore
companies,  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Rite-Aid Corp. (RAD)   The drugstores faced an especially high hurdle in seeking a
Supreme Court hearing because two justices,  Elena Kagan  and  Sonia Sotomayor , didn’t take part in the court’s consideration
of the case. The court accepts an appeal only when four justices
vote to hear a case.  Drugmakers say the settlements are a legitimate way of
resolving patent disputes between brand-name manufacturers and
would-be generic rivals. In the Cipro case, Bayer said the
accord benefited consumers by letting Barr sell its version six
months before the drug was scheduled to lose patent protection
in December 2003. The company is based in Leverkusen,  Germany .  Cipro treats conditions caused by bacteria including
anthrax, conjunctivitis and pneumonia.  The high court has now turned away challenges to a “pay
for delay” settlement on six occasions, including an appeal in
a second case involving the Cipro settlement in 2009.  Since then, the government has taken a harder line toward
the accords, with the  Justice Department ’s antitrust division
arguing that courts have been too lenient in assessing them. The
Justice Department filed a brief backing the plaintiffs in the
Cipro case at a federal appeals court in New York.  CVS and Rite Aid said the payments made by Bayer suggest
that its patent was of questionable validity. Barr had won a
preliminary round in the litigation and the case was heading
toward trial before the companies settled it.  Bayer countered that it won every other challenge to its
Cipro patent, including a Mylan Inc. lawsuit that led to a
federal appeals court ruling upholding the patent in 2002.  The case is Louisiana Wholesale Drug v. Bayer, 10-762.  DRB-Hicom to Hold IP Rights in $2.5 Billion Defense Contract    DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB) , a Malaysian automotive assembler, said it
won a 7.55 billion-ringgit ($2.5 billion) contract for 257
armored vehicles from the Southeast Asian nation’s government.  The Selangor-based company will design, develop and
manufacture them over the next seven years, it said in an
exchange filing. This will be the first time DRB will have owned  intellectual property  rights for such vehicles and their sub-
systems, it said.  The project is part of a push by  Malaysia ’s government to
encourage industry to move up the value chain as the country
aims to achieve high-income status by 2020. The project will see
advanced defense technologies transferred from DRB’s partners to
local manufacturers and vendors, the company said.  “This contract will spur and enhance the growth of the
Malaysian economy,” said DRB. “Many new local original
equipment manufacturers will be created through direct and
indirect foreign investments during the duration of the
contract.”  It will increase employment for the local defense industry
and contribute “positively” to future earnings, DRB said.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Ajinomoto Registers Trademark for Pepper-Based Diet Aid  Ajinomoto Co., the Japanese company best known for its
“ Accent ” brand of monosodium glutamate, registered a trademark
for a dietary supplement made from sweet peppers.  The Tokyo-based company registered “Capsiate Natura” as a
U.S. trademark for the product, which is used as a diet aid,
Ajinomoto said in a  statement  yesterday.  The product boosts the body’s metabolism without a burning
sensation or other after-effects, according to the statement.  ‘Baby Gaga’ Breast-Milk Ice Cream Accused of Infringement  Producers of breast-milk ice cream in the U.K. have been
given until March 9 to change the name of their product from
“Baby Gaga,”  Agence France-Presse   reported .  Lawyers representing U.S. pop singer Lady Gaga have sent  London ’s  Icecreamists Ltd . a cease-and-desist letter, according
to AFP.  In the letter, they accuse the ice-cream maker of
infringing the singer’s marks in a manner “deliberately
provocative and, to many people, nausea-inducing,” the French
wire service reported.  The dispute may be academic as local authorities have
seized the ice cream to run a series of health and safety
checks, AFP reported.  Louisiana Brewery Backs Down on Enforcing ‘Pub Crawl’ Trademark  Abita Brewing Co. , a Louisiana microbrewery, has backed
down from attempts to enforce its Louisiana state trademark for
the term “pub crawl,” New Orleans Times-Picayune reported.  The Abita Springs, Louisiana-based brewery had sent a
cease-and-desist letter to a Baton Rouge event promoter
demanding he quit using the term for a monthly bar tour he leads
to benefit the  New Orleans Council for Community and Justice ,
according to the Times-Picayune.  After fans used Facebook Inc.’s social media site to
castigate the brewery and threaten to boycott its products, the
brewery backed down, the newspaper reported.  David Blossman, president of the brewery, wrote a letter to
the fans on the Abita Brewery Facebook page that the phrase was
registered only “to stop the big breweries from copying our
success,” and went on to say: “we’ve heard from you today on
this trademark issue and we agree your respect is far more
important to us than two little words,” The Times-Picayune
reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Lucasfilm’s ‘Stormtrooper’ Helmet Copyright Case Argued in U.K.  Lucasfilm Ltd.,  George Lucas ’s film production company, is
arguing before the U.K.’s Supreme Court that the
“Stormtrooper” helmets featured in the “Star Wars” films are
entitled to copyright protection, Sky News  reported .  Andrew Ainsworth, the U.K. prop designer who created the
original helmets, has claimed he has the right to make and sell
replicas, according to Sky News.  Lucasfilm has previously successfully sued Ainsworth for
copyright infringement in the U.S, winning $20 million in
damages, Sky News reported.  Yesterday, in the first of three days of arguments before
the high court, the focus of the discussion was the difference
between a sculpture and an industrial prop, according to Sky
News.  Music Publishers Drop Copyright Claims Against  Lime Wire   Music publishers voluntarily dropped their lawsuit against  Lime Wire LLC , which was found liable last year for inducing
copyright infringement in a legal action by record labels,
according to a filing yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court. Both
sides said they agreed to dismiss all claims.  The infringement suit was filed in June 2010. The complaint
had accused Lime Wire of copying the publishers’ works “on a
massive scale and profiting greatly from their illegal
activities.” The publishers characterized Lime Wire’s actions
as “brazen infringement.”  The case is EMI April Music Inc. v. Lime Wire LLC, 1:10-cv-
04695-KMW-DCF, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Victoria Slind-Flor} in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  