-- 
BCC, PwC Cut U.K. 2011 Growth Forecast, Warn on Rate Rise

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-03-08T08:24:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bcc-pwc-cut-u-k-2011-growth-forecast-warn-on-rate-rise.html
The British Chambers of Commerce and
U.K. consultancy PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP cut their outlook
for economic growth this year and said the  Bank of England 
should postpone interest-rate increases.  Both groups forecast the economy will grow 1.4 percent this
year after it contracted in the fourth quarter. PwC’s projection
is down from 2 percent in November, and the BCC’s was cut from
1.9 percent in December, the groups said in e-mailed statements
in London today.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee will start
its monthly policy meeting tomorrow after three of the nine-
member panel voted last month to raise the benchmark interest
rate to tame inflation. Employment consultancy Manpower said in
a separate report today that the outlook for public jobs is the
weakest since 1993, while the  British Retail Consortium  said
sales fell as faster inflation weighs on spending.  “The BOE shouldn’t immediately be raising rates because of
the fragility of the recovery,” John Hawksworth, chief
economist at PwC, said in an interview. “If they raised this
week or May, that would be overkill. August or November is
reasonable.”  The pound slipped 0.1 percent against the dollar and traded
at $1.6185 as of 8:21 a.m. in  London .  ‘Persistent’ Inflation  Bank of England Deputy Governor Charles Bean said last week
annual consumer-price gains may prove “more persistent” next
year, though the drag from the government’s spending squeeze
will “tend to be pulling down not only on growth but on
inflation.” U.K. inflation climbed to 4 percent in January,
double the bank’s 2 percent target, as oil and food costs
surged.  The coldest December in a century undermined the recovery
in the fourth quarter, when the economy shrank 0.6 percent.
Spending cuts announced last year will cost 330,000 public-
sector jobs by April 2015. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will announce details of his budget plans for the coming
fiscal year on March 23.  An increase in the key rate in first half of 2011 would be
a mistake, the BCC said. The London-based group sees the rate
rising to 1.25 percent at the end of this year from the record
low of 0.5 percent.  “Given the shift of opinion within the MPC, we assume
interest rates will increase from May,”  David Kern , chief
economist, said in an e-mailed statement. “This will be
premature and risky in view of the fragility of the recovery and
tough fiscal measures expected in the budget.”  Sales Fall  The British Retail Consortium’s measure of sales at stores
open at least 12 months, measured by value, fell 0.4 percent in
February from a year earlier, compared with a 2.3 percent annual
gain in January.  “Consumers are re-adjusting their spending habits to
reflect the reduced disposable income in their pockets and the
key question for retailers is whether they have finished yet,”
said Helen Dickinson, head of retail at accountancy firm KPMG
LLP, which also compiled the report.  Manpower’s measure of hiring intentions in the public
sector for the second quarter fell to minus 22 percent, the
weakest since 1993, from minus 3 percent for the current
quarter, the group said in a statement today. The overall index
of hiring intentions, based on a survey of 2,100 employers, held
at 2 percent.  The Bank of England will vote for no change in the key rate
when it finishes its two-day policy meeting on March 10,
according to all 61 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. All
34 economists in a separate poll say policy makers will leave
the bond-purchase plan at 200 billion pounds ($325 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  