-- 
Bell, California, City Council Races Pit Out-of-Town Donor Against Unions

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-03-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bell-california-city-council-races-pit-out-of-town-donor-against-unions.html
Voters in Bell,  California , where
eight current and former officials face charges related to their
outsized pay, go to the polls today to finish what began as a
citizens campaign to oust incumbents and turned into a struggle
between unions and an out-of-town donor.  The 16 City Council candidates include a truck driver, a
school teacher and a retired baker, according to the  City
Clerk’s  records. All five council seats may turn over, including
one whose incumbent is subject to a recall vote.  Mailings from Bell’s police union spurred an assertion by
the city attorney that uniformed officers promoted candidates,
violating the law. Campaign contributions totaling $60,000 from
Gwilym McGrew, a retired executive from  Woodland Hills , 33 miles
(53 kilometers) northwest of Bell, and his wife, Peggy, prompted
a state Assembly member to press for the return of the cash.  “I am shocked to hear that any candidate with strong
community ties would accept funds from the very people who work
against the working families they are looking to represent,”
Ricardo Lara, an Assembly Democrat from neighboring Bell
Gardens, said in a statement. Lara, whose district includes
Bell, said McGrew supports the Tea Party movement, as well as
anti-worker candidates and legislation.  McGrew, who started medical-supply retailer  AllHeart.com ,
said in an interview that he has backed causes related to
Democrats  Hillary Clinton  and  Barney Frank  and went with a
candidate he supported to a Tea Party event. He said he helped
honest people in Bell who he believes will do a good job.  McGrew, 56, acknowledged that his contributions have been
greater than what he could give in state races and said the
candidates needed the help.  Lack of Funds  “If you go look at the average income in Bell, they just
don’t have money,” he said of the  Los Angeles  suburb. “These
are people who didn’t have the dollars to pay for small document
requests to root out the corruption.”  Bell’s election underscores the absence of financial limits
for local races, unlike those at the state and national level.
California  rules  bar individuals from contributing more than
$3,900 to legislative races, $6,500 to statewide candidates and
$25,900 to campaigns for governor.  The lack of municipal-campaign restrictions is “a very
painful reality that  Common Cause  is extremely outraged about,”
said Kathy Feng, director of  California Common Cause , a Los
Angeles-based group that advocates for open, honest government.
“Local governments are largely unregulated by the same campaign
laws the state has to abide by,” she said.  Outsized Salaries  Bell, a city of 38,000 mostly lower-income Latinos about 10
miles (16 kilometers) south of Los Angeles, made national
headlines last year when former city manager  Robert Rizzo ’s
annual salary of almost $800,000 became widely known.  Rizzo, Mayor Oscar Hernandez and six other current and
former city officials were  charged  in September with
misappropriating $5.5 million in public funds, according to Los
Angeles County District Attorney Steve Cooley. The Los Angeles
Times, which began reporting on their pay in July, said four
City Council members received almost $100,000 a year from the
municipality. All those charged have entered not guilty pleas.  Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Henry J. Hall last
month ordered the three council members who have been indicted,
including Hernandez, to keep out of city business, according to  Pedro Carrillo , the interim city administrative officer.  Recall Votes  Council member Teresa Jacobo, one of those charged, is
subject to a recall. Hernandez and George Mirabal, another
council member charged, both face recalls, although their terms
are ending and they aren’t seeking re-election. Miguel Sanchez,
34, a candidate in one of the recall elections, died March 4. He
had complained of flu-like symptoms in the days before his
death. Sanchez, a teacher’s aide, had McGrew’s endorsement.  Carrillo on Jan. 27 released what he called a fiscal
sustainability plan to close a $2.2 million general-fund deficit
this year. One option contained in the proposal would hire the
Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department to replace the city’s
police force. Spending on the Police Department consumed 68
percent of the city’s general fund, the  report  said.  The Bell Police Officers’ Association, a union that opposes
hiring the county for public safety, has endorsed five council
candidates, according to its  website .  Campaign Mailings  The group’s mailings in support of council campaigns and
sent to residents that included pictures of uniformed city
police officers violated state and departmental rules, according
to Jamie Casso, Bell’s city attorney.  “Employees can advocate,” Casso said in a telephone
interview. “They can’t do it in city uniforms.”  A Los Angeles political consultant hired by the police
union said the pictures of uniformed officers in one mailing
were his fault.  “It was just a mistake, I take full credit,” Leo Briones,
the consultant, said in a telephone interview. “A lot of people
who are trying to union bust are involved in this game.”  The union, operating through an independent committee, has
spent about $40,000 on the campaign, Briones said.  The challenges faced by the future council include the  budget deficit  and rising employee costs, said Carrillo, the
interim city manager. He said those issues mirror what other
local governments confront.  “We’re a microcosm,” Carrillo said. “The state is going
through the same thing.”  Union Backing  Ali Saleh, a clothing importer endorsed by the police
union, reported total campaign contributions of about $6,514,
including $2,400 from the American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees, a national labor group. He also got
$300 in tee-shirts from a fund affiliated with the police union.  Saleh, 35, opposes eliminating the police force, he said in
a telephone interview. His views aren’t tied to the union’s
support, he said.  “They paid $300 for tee-shirts, that doesn’t mean I’m
going to do what they ask me,” he said in a telephone
interview. “We’re paying among the highest property taxes in
the county. The citizens at least deserve their own police
department.”  Taking money and support from the police union represents a
conflict of interest for candidates, according to Nestor
Valencia, 45, who is also running for the council.  “Whoever wins is going to be deciding the police
department’s fate,” Valencia, a health-care consultant, said in
a telephone interview. He has received $26,000 from McGrew,
according to campaign filings.  An Outsider  “McGrew is an outsider who consistently fights against the
interest of regular people,” Maria Elena Durazo, executive
secretary-treasurer of the Los Angeles County Federation of
Labor, said in a statement without elaborating.  McGrew said he has run Web advertisements urging citizens
to oppose last year’s federal health-care overhaul and has
 written  articles critical of public-employee pay rates and
pension-fund accounting.  In addition to Valencia, McGrew said he provided financial
support to two other Bell candidates.  “I urge them to reconsider their decision and return the
funds,” said Lara, the assemblyman from Bell Gardens.  No chance, Valencia said. He said McGrew’s support won’t
influence his decisions if he wins a council seat.  “It so happens he’s Republican and that’s why they don’t
like him,” Valencia said. “I’m a Dem for life. No one else has
stepped up to the plate to help us.”  McGrew spent months attending community meetings in Bell
after reading about the city’s salary scandal, he said.  “These citizens of moderate income were being abused,”
and that got him angry, McGrew said. Valencia and two others he
supports won endorsements from the  Los Angeles Times , he said.  Editors: Ted Bunker, Stephen Merelman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  