-- 
Berkowitz’s Win Becomes Challenge as St. Joe ‘Under Attack’

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-03-08T22:35:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/berkowitz-victory-becomes-challenge-as-st-joe-under-attack-.html
  Bruce Berkowitz  won the battle to
change management at St. Joe Co., the money-losing Florida
landowner. Now, he has to figure out how to make its forests and
swamps profitable as short sellers bet against the shares.  “The company’s basically under attack,” said Berkowitz,
who was named chairman of the Watersound, Florida-based company
on March 4 and whose Fairholme Capital Management LLC is its
largest shareholder. “There are plenty of people out there
who’d like to see the company go down the tubes. That’s sort of
by definition anybody who’s shorting the stock.”    David Einhorn , the hedge fund manager who holds an
undisclosed short position on St. Joe, told investors in October
that the company sold its best waterfront land and was left with
mostly rural acreage that should value the shares at no more
than $10 each. After his presentation,  St. Joe  stock on loan to
short sellers climbed, reaching a 12-month high of 27 percent of
total shares on Jan. 25, according to London-based Data
Explorers, a securities information provider.  “This is the most interesting drama on  Wall Street  in 10
years -- two brilliant guys in binary positions,” said James Dahl, managing director of  Rock Creek Capital , a Jacksonville,
Florida-based investor in $500 million worth of timberland.
“Only one can be right. There’s no middle ground.”  29% Stake  Berkowitz’s Fairholme owns almost 29 percent of St. Joe
shares, with a cost basis of $26.26 each, according to a Feb. 1
filing. St. Joe shares rose 69 cents to $26.93 as of 4:15 p.m.
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  “We suspect Bruce Berkowitz has confused a bad investment
with what he thought was a bad management,” Einhorn’s
Greenlight Capital LLC, which manages $6.8 billion of assets and
profited from betting against  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in
2008, said in an e-mail.  Short sellers sell borrowed stock in the hope of buying the
securities later at a lower price and returning them to the
lender. St. Joe’s short interest has declined to 19 percent, the
11th highest among members of the  Russell 1000 index (RIY) , according
to Data Explorers.  Einhorn’s argument “doesn’t compute to me,” Berkowitz
said in an interview today on Bloomberg Radio. “If we have the
opportunity, at the right price, we’d buy more” shares, he
said.  Berkowitz, named domestic stock fund manager of the decade
last year by Morningstar Inc., has invested extensively in
troubled companies through Miami-based Fairholme, which manages
about $22 billion of assets. Fairholme’s 10 largest holdings as
of Dec. 31 included  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,  General
Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  CIT Group Inc. (CIT) ,  Regions
Financial Corp. (RF)  and St. Joe, according the Feb. 1 filing.  Streak of Losses  St. Joe, northern Florida’s largest private landowner,
reported losses for the past 11 quarters totaling $234 million
as the state’s real estate crash drove down prices and forced
the company to write down the value of land. Originally a timber
and pulpwood company started by Alfred I. DuPont, St. Joe
transformed in the 1990s into a developer of housing, beachfront
resort communities and an international airport near the  Gulf of
Mexico , which opened in May.  Chief Executive Officer Britt Greene and three other board
members resigned Feb. 28 after Berkowitz criticized their
spending and corporate governance. The new board includes
Berkowitz, Fairholme President Charles Fernandez, former  Florida 
Governor  Charlie Crist  and Carnival Corp. Chief Operating
Officer Howard Frank. Hugh Durden, St. Joe’s previous chairman,
is serving as interim CEO while the company looks for Greene’s
replacement.  New Operating Chief  The company named Park Brady chief operating officer,
effective March 21, according to a statement yesterday. Brady,
who will be paid $750,000 a year plus benefits, was previously
president and CEO of ResortQuest, a vacation-rental company
based in Fort Walton Beach, Florida.  Berkowitz takes the helm as Florida’s real estate slump
enters its fifth year. Resale home prices fell to a median
$136,500 last year, down 4.2 percent from 2009 and 45 percent
from the 2006 peak, according to the  Florida Association of
Realtors . The state had the third-highest rate of foreclosure
filings last year behind Nevada and Arizona, according to
RealtyTrac Inc. Only Nevada and  California  had higher rates of
unemployment, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.  574,000 Acres  St. Joe owns 574,000 acres (232,000 hectares) of land,
about 70 percent of which is within 15 miles (24 kilometers) of
the Gulf of Mexico. Einhorn said the land is worth $1,500 an
acre, based on the value of its timber. Properties approved for
31,600 homes and 11.6 million square feet of commercial space
are worth less than the cost of improvements, he said.  Forestry accounted for 29 percent of St. Joe’s $99.5
million in revenue last year, when the company reported a net
loss of $35.9 million, or 39 cents a share. Dahl of Rock Creek,
who is shorting the stock, said its forests are worth less than
most.  “It’s the worst-managed timberland I’ve ever seen with no
close second,” he said. “It’s garbage.”  St. Joe’s value should be based on its potential, not its
forestry past, Berkowitz said.  “I don’t understand why forestry is the analysis,” he
said. “What are you valuing the beach at, the golf courses, the
hotels per acre?”  St. Joe missed past opportunities to maximize its land
value, Berkowitz said. In 1959, then-CEO Edward Ball spurned an
offer from  Walt Disney , founder of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , saying, “I
don’t do business with carnival people,” according to “Green
Empire,” a 2004 book about St. Joe. Walt Disney World Resort
opened in Orlando in 1971.  ‘Box of Chocolates’  “Orlando should be sending a box of chocolates to St. Joe
every day,” Berkowitz said.  St. Joe’s current troubles stem from its $827 million in
investments from 2006 to 2008 in  communities  -- such as the town
of Watersound, RiverTown and SummerCamp Beach -- that remain
undeveloped and unsold, according to Einhorn’s presentation and
a consolidated shareholder lawsuit.  Those investments were led by Peter Rummell, St. Joe’s
chairman from 1997 to 2008, and a former Walt Disney Co.
developer of projects such as Celebration, a master-planned
community modeled after an idealized American small town.
Rummell, who was named in February as chairman of the Urban Land
Institute, a development think tank in  Washington , declined to
comment.  Revenue Decline  St. Joe’s revenue was down 28 percent last year from 2009
and 89 percent from the peak year of 2005. More than half of its
$39 million in revenue from real estate sales came from
recognizing the 2006 purchase of 2,148 acres by the Florida
Department of Transportation.  Losses narrowed as St. Joe slashed pretax charges, mostly
writedowns on property investments, to $27.1 million from $163.1
million in 2009. The reduced writedowns came after the company
disclosed Jan. 10 that it faced an informal inquiry by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission over its impairment
practices.  St. Joe acquired most of its land in the 1930s and 1940s
and its valuations are based on a history of appreciation
between 0 percent and 7 percent a year, according to its annual
report, released March 3.  Berkowitz said he doesn’t expect the new management to
revise the financial statement.  Clean Statements  “It’s clean,” he said in a March 5 telephone interview.
“Do you think the auditors would allow any sort of liberal
policies given the stink about valuations?”  St. Joe’s land has become more valuable since May, when the
Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport opened near
Panama City, Florida, with flights from such cities as Atlanta,
Houston and Nashville, Berkowitz said. The company promised to
compensate Southwest Airlines Inc. for losses on its flights,
money Southwest hasn’t claimed.  Aerospace companies, homebuilders and hoteliers are being
courted as investment partners in the area, Berkowitz said. It
may take at least a decade to determine whether his stake in St.
Joe was a good bet, he said.  “Right or wrong is going to be determined 10 years from
now,” Berkowitz said. “You’re buying land at values that are
based on incorrect perceptions. This is what investing’s all
about. It’s what free markets are all about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  John Gittelsohn  in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 