-- 
Billionaire Sons Aspire to Make Snowbound Niseko Aspen of Asia

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-03-08T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/billionaire-sons-aspire-to-make-snowbound-niseko-asia-s-aspen.html
The sons of two Asian billionaires
are trying to turn a Japanese village into the region’s Aspen,
with $620-a-night rooms and $1.3 million apartments.  Richard Li, son of  Li Ka-shing , is investing $1.2 billion
on a resort, and Francis Yeoh, son of the founder of  Malaysia ’s
YTL Corp., just gave the Green Leaf Hotel a $10 million facelift
in Niseko on the northern island of Hokkaido. The village has an
 average  3.3 meters of snow (11 feet) in February, making it the
world’s second-snowiest resort after  Washington ’s Mount Baker,
according to the  Best Snow  website. The powder snow that has
drawn Australian snowboarders for a decade is now attracting
developers like Horst Schulze, founder of U.S.-based  Capella
Hotels .  “The development of the area is definitely a sign that
Niseko is catching up to global standards as a luxury resort,”
says Tadashi Endo, chief researcher at  Hokkaido University’s
Center for Advanced Tourism Studies . “Skiers from Asia prefer
to stay at luxury hotels and dine out.”  As the skiers depart at the end of this winter, they may
return next year to a very different Niseko, which has a
population of 4,600. By the peak season in 2012, Schulze, former
president of the Ritz-Carlton Group, plans to open a development
designed by Tadao Ando, the architect behind  Tokyo Sky Tree , the
world’s tallest tower.  Richard Li’s Pacific Century Premium Developments, a
property arm of  PCCW Ltd. (8) , is investing 100 billion yen ($1.2
billion) in two hotels, a hot spring and 3,000 condominiums in
the resort’s Hanazono area, Naomi Tofukuji, a Tokyo-based
spokeswoman for Pacific Century Premium Developments, said on
Feb. 24.  ‘Aspen of the East’  Malaysian builder YTL, which reopened the renovated Green
Leaf hotel in December, is developing Hinode Hill, a residential
project including penthouses with private onsens, or traditional
Japanese baths. The Kuala Lumpur-based company spent $66 million
on the land, according to spokeswoman Michi Uchiyama.  “We aim to establish  Niseko  village as the ‘Aspen of the
East,’” Yeoh said in a statement on Dec. 14.  Backpacking snow seekers in the early 2000s from  Australia 
-- where a similar time zone to Japan’s means there’s little of
the jet lag associated with trips to  Europe  or  North America  --
brought Irish-themed pubs, Tex-Mex eateries and pizza joints.  Now, as tourists from mainland  China , Hong Kong, and
Singapore head to Niseko for the deep powder lines, five-star
restaurants and designer boutiques may replace the cheap
eateries, a trend seen in Aspen,  Colorado .  Aspen “grew organically. It is not because there is a
collection of world class shopping and dining (establishments) -
- that came later,” said Jeff Hanle, a spokesman at  Aspen
Skiing Co. , operator of ski resorts in Aspen. “I don’t know
that it is possible to recreate.”  Private Jets  Still, YTL plans to include shopping streets with luxury
businesses like  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , said James McBride, president of YTL’s hotel division.  “We’re working on serving the affluent through retail,
residential, and restaurants,” McBride said. “What this all
will eventually lead to is people flying in on private jets.”  The latest wave of visitors is from mainland China, with
their numbers almost doubling in 2009 from a year earlier to
92,700,  according  to the Hokkaido prefectural government. Access
is being made easier after Japan eased visa restrictions in July
and China Eastern Air and Air China added direct flights from
Shanghai and Beijing to Sapporo’s  New Chitose Airport , an air
link that’s about 90 minutes from Niseko by car.  ‘Awesome’ Snow  “The snow here is awesome, it’s really dry and I love
it,” said Frances Li, a 35-year-old sales manager from Beijing
who is not related to Richard Li. “I’ll come back.”  YTL’s Green Leaf Hotel, which charges as much as 51,000 yen
a night, was fully booked over the Feb. 2-5 Chinese New Year’s
period, even at double the usual room rate, according to
Uchiyama. A night at the end of February costs about $300,
according to the hotel’s website.  The number of middle-income and affluent consumers in China,
the world’s most populous nation with more than 1.3 billion
people, may almost triple to 415 million in 10 years, the Boston
Consulting Group Inc. said in a November report.  The local government is also responding to the arrival of
Chinese visitors. Last June, Niseko hired Wenxuan Han, a 33-
year-old from Dalian who studied at Hokkaido’s  Otaru University
of Commerce , to handle translation work and promote tourism.  ‘No Place Like It’  “Chinese are keen to learn about Japan, and especially
Niseko,” she said. “There really is no place like it in the
region where you can enjoy wild landscape all year round.”  The Yamada Onsen, a hot spring hotel at the base of the
Hirafu ski runs and one of Niseko’s oldest landmarks, was last
year sold to a Chinese investor by Sapporo-based  Kamori Kanko .
The company, which owns about 40 properties including hotels and
golf courses in Japan and abroad, said it received offers from
investors in Australia, China and  Hong Kong .  “The Chinese investor offered the highest price,” said
Yasushi Miyazaki, Kamori Kanko’s managing director. He declined
to identify the buyer.  Niseko isn’t the only place trying to capitalize on the
growing interest in luxury skiing. In November, Paris-based Club
Mediterranee SA opened a luxury resort in Yabuli, China, where
Lawrence Ho, son of Macau billionaire casino tycoon  Stanley Ho ,
is developing three luxury hotels on Sun Mountain.  The growth in foreign investment in Niseko also poses risks
for the town in case of another economic slowdown in Japan’s
precarious economy, said Michio Kitamura, who analyzes tourism
and regional development for Nomura Research Institute.  “They should look back at what happened in Okinawa, where
some developers from abroad pulled out after the 2008 financial
crisis,” Kitamura said. “Niseko should know foreign investors
won’t hesitate to abandon projects half-completed and don’t
think much about the effect of overdevelopment.”  Land Prices  While land prices in Japan have fallen for the past 19
years in 98.5 percent of plots tracked by the Ministry of Land,
values in Niseko’s Kutchan area have been  steady , according to
reports released in September.  Craig Meikle, whose  Meikle & Associates  real estate agency
promoted  Capella Residences  in campaigns held at luxury hotels
throughout  Asia , said contracts have been signed for a “good
amount” of the condominiums, without giving a specific number.  As the snows melt, owners won’t have to wait till the next
winter to use the resort either -- there are already eight golf
courses around the village.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net . 