-- 
BofA’s Montag Targets 15%-Plus Return on Tangible Equity

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-03-08T21:02:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bofa-s-investment-bank-seeks-profitability-target-below-that-of-jpmorgan.html
  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s investment
banking and trading division is seeking at least a 15 percent
return on tangible equity, a lower profitability target than the
firm’s biggest rival,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The unit also has a long-term goal of “mid-to-high single-
digit revenue growth,” according to a  presentation  from the
division’s head, Thomas K. Montag, at an investor conference
today in New York. Montag, 54, targeted increasing international
revenue and making investments to improve technology.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the Wall Street bank that makes
the most revenue from trading, has stood by its target of a 20
percent return on tangible equity. New York-based  JPMorgan , the
second biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, is sticking to a target of
17 percent return on equity at its investment bank. Bank of
America’s division consists mostly of operations acquired in the
2009 takeover of Merrill Lynch & Co.  “I don’t know what drove Goldman and JPMorgan’s numbers,”
Montag said. “We still have some investments to make versus JP
that they’ve made in previous years with technology and stuff
that makes us a little different right now. Remember, we’re two
years old and there’s the element of putting two things together
that takes a while to happen. It doesn’t happen over two
years.”  Credit Suisse Group AG, based in Zurich, last month lowered
its firm-wide goal for return on equity to more than 15 percent
from more than 18 percent. Barclays Plc also said in February it
will aim for a 13 percent ROE, down from an average of 18
percent over the past 30 years.  International Market  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan ,
51, has leaned on the firm’s investment bank for profits as
consumer-finance units booked losses tied to new regulations and
faulty mortgages. Montag’s division earned $6.3 billion in 2010,
almost double the annual profit of any other unit at the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender.  A 1 percent market-share gain internationally in all the
division’s businesses would translate into $3 billion of
additional revenue, Montag said. While Bank of America has a
market share of greater than 9 percent in the Americas, its
international market share is less than 3 percent, Montag said.
Growth in the international market will be key because it
represents 65 percent of available fees, he said.  “We showed you the gaps we have that we think will drive
better growth than many of the people we compete with,” Montag
said. “We have a stable corporate-banking platform from which
to build, and we think we will do incredibly well in the years
going forward.”  The bank has reduced its proprietary-trading headcount by
about 75 percent as it winds down that business, Montag said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 