-- 
BofA Is a ‘Very Active’ Seller of Commercial Real Estate to Limit Losses

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-03-08T21:09:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bofa-is-a-very-active-seller-of-commercial-real-estate-to-limit-losses.html
  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender, is a “very active seller” of commercial real
estate as the firm seeks to limit losses on assets accumulated
through acquisitions, Chief Risk Officer Bruce Thompson said.  Commercial real estate loans in the core portfolio fell 28
percent in 2010 to $48 billion at the end of the year, the
Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender said in a  presentation  on
its website today. The decline is part of the company’s strategy
to reduce so-called legacy assets, Thompson said today at an
investor presentation.  Thompson is working with Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  to decrease the chance of writedowns after the company
repaid U.S. bailout funds that were required to bolster capital
drained by lending losses. Commercial property prices fell about
40 percent from their 2007 peak through the end of last year,
according to Moody’s Investors Service, after U.S. unemployment
of more than 9 percent shrunk demand for  office space  and
pressured sales in shopping complexes.  “Credit quality for commercial real estate is showing
signs of stabilization,” Bank of America said in its annual
report to the Securities and Exchange Commission last month.
“However, we expect that elevated unemployment and ongoing
pressure on vacancy and rental rates will continue to affect
primarily the non-homebuilder portfolio.”  ‘Very Disciplined’  The lender will remain in the commercial real estate
business “in a very disciplined way,” David Darnell, head of
the commercial banking division, said at the presentation.  Moynihan is seeking to show his bank can expand without
acquisitions, like the purchases in 2008 and 2009 of Countrywide
Financial Corp. and Merrill Lynch & Co., which saddled his
predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis , with losses tied to real estate
and mortgage securities.  “We are changing the culture of the company from a company
that was built upon acquisitions and consolidation,” Moynihan
said today in  New York  at the company’s first investor day since
2007.  Bank of America rose 66 cents, or 4.7 percent, to $14.69 at
4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The company
has gained about 10 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 Dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  