-- 
BofA Segregates Almost Half of its Mortgages Into ‘Bad Bank’

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-03-08T19:43:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bofa-segregates-almost-half-its-mortgages-into-bad-bank-under-laughlin.html
  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest
U.S. lender by assets, is segregating almost half its 13.9
million mortgages into a “bad” bank comprised of its riskiest
and worst-performing “legacy” loans, said Terry Laughlin, who
is running the new unit.  “We are creating a classic good bank, bad bank
structure,” Laughlin told investors at a meeting in  New York 
today. He was promoted last month to manage the costs of
resolving disputes stemming from the company’s 2008 purchase of
Countrywide Financial Corp. “We’re going to get after this,
we’re going to do it the right way and we’re going to put it to
bed in the next 36 months,” he said.  The legacy portfolio will hold 6.7 million loans with
outstanding principal balance of about $1 trillion, according to
a  presentation  to investors today. The split leaves home loan
President  Barbara Desoer  with about half her previous portfolio,
as well as new lending going forward.  Laughlin’s portfolio will include loans that are currently
60 or more days delinquent as well as riskier types of loans the
bank no longer originates, such as subprime, Alt-A, interest-
only and option adjustable-rate mortgages, he said. He said the
portfolios will be completely split by March 31 and that his
will be liquidated over time. Of the 13.9 million loans Bank of
America services, about 3.5 million are held by the company on
its balance sheet. The rest are owned by other investors.  “It’s a way to get investors focus on the good,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner with the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia  and analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington,
Virginia. “It’s a way to talk about good things and ignore the
bad.”  JPMorgan, Wells Fargo  Laughlin’s portfolio includes loans the company originated
in addition to Countrywide mortgages.  That differs from
practices at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , whose
legacy books include only loans they acquired through their
respective purchases of Washington Mutual and Wachovia.  “Many of the assets that are coming over into the legacy
asset-servicing portfolio are delinquent or are expected to go
delinquent over the next three years,” Laughlin said. “As
borrowers default, we’ll evaluate them for a loan
modification.”  Laughlin is also responsible for overseeing foreclosure
processes as well as negotiations with investor groups that are
demanding the bank buy back faulty loans.  State Probes  State and federal law enforcement agencies are pushing
lenders to cut outstanding loan balances as part of a proposed
settlement they hope to reach with banks over their mortgage-
servicing and foreclosure practices.  State attorneys general and federal agencies sent a 27-page
settlement proposal last week to Bank of America, Wells Fargo,
JPMorgan, Ally Financial Inc. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the five
largest mortgage services, which process 59 percent of all U.S.
home loans. Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller said regulators and
law enforcement agencies want an agreement that leads to more
loan modifications for struggling homeowners.  Laughlin said regulators have reviewed the bank’s
foreclosure processes and “no findings came out of those exams
that basically said the foreclosure process was fundamentally
flawed.”  He said the bank was instituting a standardized affidavit
form and providing better oversight of third-party attorneys and
vendors. “Certainly there’s always room for improvement in
process,” he said.  Bondholder Group  Bank of America may face “material fines” from government
probes into possible irregularities in foreclosure processes, it
said in its annual earnings report filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission on Feb. 25. The firm also said that a
bondholder group including Pacific Investment Management Co. has
almost doubled the number of mortgage deals on which it’s
challenging the bank.  Bank of America set aside about $3 billion late last year
to settle certain demands from U.S.-controlled mortgage buyers  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . The bank said other claims on so-
called private label mortgages could cost an additional $7
billion to $10 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in Washington at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  