-- 
BofA Chief Calls Lender `Growth Company' With Excess Capital for Investors

-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-03-08T21:38:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bofa-chief-calls-lender-growth-company-with-excess-capital-for-investors.html
  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest
U.S. lender by assets, should be viewed by investors as a growth
company that “can be both big and good for our customers,”
Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  said. The stock rose
the most in more than two months, leading a bank-industry rally.  “We can generate significant excess capital and return it
to shareholders,” according to a  presentation  Moynihan gave
today for investors in the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
lender. Normalized pretax income could range from $35 billion to
$40 billion, the company said in a slide show accompanying
Moynihan’s speech in  New York . Some units may not reach
normalized levels for two or three years, he said.  Moynihan, hosting Bank of America’s first investor day
since 2007, is seeking to assure investors the firm will return
to profitability as the economy stabilizes and the company
resolves disputes with investors over soured mortgages. The
economic rebound is helping to boost lending and spending by
consumers using credit and debit cards, Moynihan said.  “We are changing the culture of the company from a company
that was built upon acquisitions and consolidation,” Moynihan
said. “We are again a growth company.”  Bank of America advanced 66 cents, or 4.7 percent, to
$14.69 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest  U.S.
bank  by assets, climbed 2.7 percent to $46.40. The 24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  rose 2.7 percent, the most since December.  New Normal  Most of the company’s businesses will return to normalized
earnings next year and in 2013, Moynihan said. The deposits
division will take longer, returning in 2013 at the earliest,
and mortgages will take until at least 2014, he said. The bank’s
goal for companywide return on tangible equity is 15 percent or
more, according to the presentation.  The bank still faces elevated credit costs and losses on
what Moynihan called the biggest legacy issue, the home-lending
unit. “We still have a lot of work to do,” he said. The
business is in “recovery mode” after contributing to a net
loss last year, according to the slide show.  The bank hopes later this year to restore some of the
lender’s quarterly dividend, which was cut to 1 cent during the
global financial crisis, Moynihan said. The bank has targeted a
payout of up to 30 percent of trailing earnings. Raising the
dividend requires regulatory approval and any increase is likely
to be modest at first, Moynihan said.  Second Half  “We won’t do anything until the second half of this year
because we have to get Fed approval,” Moynihan said. The bank
expects to return all excess capital through a combination of a
higher quarterly payout, share buybacks or, if the stock is too
expensive, through a special dividend, he said. Asset sales may
continue as the bank pulls capital out of units that aren’t
sufficiently customer-focused, he said.  The biggest housing slump since the Great Depression has
pressured Bank of America as mortgage-bond investors and
insurers have demanded the company repurchase loans, mostly
originated before 2008, that may have been created based on
faulty information.  Sallie Krawcheck’s wealth-management unit is targeting
revenue growth of 6 percent to 7 percent, she told investors.
While discount operations have siphoned away some customers with
modest assets, wealthier clients are remaining loyal to their
advisers, Krawcheck said. Responding to concern about loss of
advisers, Krawcheck said only 36 have jumped to independent
firms and the bank “got back” about 20.  Profit Center  The investment-banking and trading division is seeking at
least a 15 percent return on tangible equity, a lower
profitability target than JPMorgan, the firm’s biggest rival.
The unit, run by Thomas K. Montag, also has a long-term goal of
“mid-to-high single-digit revenue growth,” according to the
bank’s slide show.  Moynihan has leaned on the firm’s investment bank for
profits as consumer-finance units booked losses tied to new
regulations and faulty mortgages. Montag’s unit earned $6.3
billion in 2010, almost double the annual profit of any other
division. Most of the unit consists of operations acquired in
the 2009 takeover of Merrill Lynch & Co.  Moynihan, whose predecessor spent about $130 billion
purchasing firms including Merrill Lynch and Countrywide
Financial Corp., reiterated that the bank was done with
takeovers and would benefit from a permanent “peace dividend”
as it devotes capital to investor returns.  Last Year’s Loss  Bank of America posted a $2.2 billion net loss last year,
driven by writedowns on home-lending and credit-card units. New
regulations limiting debit-card fees may reduce revenue, the
company has said.  There’s a “sober recognition” in the industry that the
new rules may mean price increases, Moynihan said. Regulations
will be “more down the middle” as the economy heals, he told
one questioner who asked why banks didn’t fight back.  “We do push back and we get to reasonableness,” Moynihan
said.  Moynihan is segregating almost half the bank’s 13.9 million
mortgages into a “bad” bank comprised of its riskiest and
worst-performing “legacy” loans, said Terry Laughlin, who is
running the new unit.  Good and Bad  “We are creating a classic good bank, bad bank
structure,” Laughlin told investors. He was promoted last month
to manage the costs of resolving disputes stemming from the
company’s 2008 purchase of Countrywide. “We’re going to get
after this, we’re going to do it the right way and we’re going
to put it to bed in the next 36 months,” he said.  Laughlin’s portfolio includes loans the company originated
in addition to Countrywide mortgages. That differs from
practices at JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo & Co ., whose legacy books
include only loans they acquired through their respective
purchases of Washington Mutual and Wachovia.  “It’s a way to get investors focus on the good,” said  Paul Miller , a former examiner with the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia  and analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington,
Virginia. “It’s a way to talk about good things and ignore the
bad.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  