-- 
Bollard May Spur New Zealand Dollar Gains by Snubbing Bets for Rate Cuts

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-03-08T22:37:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bollard-may-spur-new-zealand-dollar-gains-by-snubbing-bets-for-rate-cuts.html
  New Zealand ’s dollar, this year’s
worst-performing major currency, is likely to rally if the
central bank disappoints markets by failing to cut the benchmark
interest rate, AMP Capital Investors said.  The so-called kiwi slid 5.2 percent this year against the
dollar and reached an 18-year low against  Australia ’s currency
after New Zealand’s deadliest earthquake in 80 years prompted
bets Governor Alan Bollard will cut the official cash rate from
3 percent tomorrow. Swaps traders are wagering on a near
certainty he will set the rate at 2.75 percent, with some chance
of a reduction to 2.5 percent, according to a Credit Suisse AG
index.  “Given market positioning and expectations for a cut, the
risks are actually skewed toward a rally in the  New Zealand
dollar ,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of investment
strategy at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which manages about $93
billion. “If they just move to an easing bias and don’t
actually cut then that would be quite positive for the New
Zealand dollar.”  New Zealand’s dollar traded at 73.96 U.S. cents as of 11:35
a.m. in Wellington. That’s down from the 79.76 cents it reached
on Nov. 4, which was the highest level since April 2008. It
traded at NZ$1.3652 against the Australian dollar after reaching
NZ$1.3796 on March 7, the weakest since June 1992.  The government said March 6 it may need to borrow more
money and reconsider spending plans after the Feb. 22 earthquake
caused as much as NZ$15 billion ($11 billion) in damage. The
death toll from the quake totals 166, the most since a 1931
temblor.  ‘Virtually No Growth’  Prime Minister John Key said March 2 that he expects the  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand to reduce rates. A recession in the
first half of 2011 cannot be ruled out, he said, and there’s
likely to be “virtually no growth” recorded for the financial
year through June.  Bollard may choose to tolerate the near-term decline in
growth and keep rates unchanged, said Paul Bloxham, chief
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney. With rising price
pressures globally, a currency weakened by a rate cut could push
domestic inflation higher, he said in a research note this week.  Six of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast
the RBNZ will cut rates to 2.50 percent from 3 percent. Four
predict a 25-basis-point reduction and five expect no change.  AMP’s Oliver said the central bank may be more likely to
respond initially by signaling a bias toward more accommodative
monetary policy rather than cutting rates.  “Historically natural disasters tend to have little impact
on the medium-term outlook for an economy on a one-year view,”
as reconstruction makes up for lost economic activity, he said.  Sell Aussie  New Zealand’s recovery is also being bolstered by surging
prices for exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy. The
value of commodity shipments rose for a sixth month to a record
in February, led by hides, milk powder and timber, ANZ National
Bank Ltd. said in a monthly report on March 1.  Whole milk powder prices climbed to a record at the latest
auction, Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s largest
dairy exporter, said March 2. Milk prices will likely remain at
least 50 percent above historical averages in the longer term,
Chief Executive Officer Andrew Ferrier said Feb. 14.  “There’s a chance of a 50-basis-point confidence cut but
there’s also a chance that they do nothing,” said  Richard
Grace , chief currency strategist in Sydney at  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia , the nation’s largest lender. The Australian
dollar’s rally against the kiwi is likely to peak tomorrow
whatever Bollard decides, he said.  Grace recommends buying New Zealand’s currency versus the
Australian dollar targeting a rise to NZ$1.30 by year-end.
Declines in the kiwi below 73 U.S. cents may also be a buying
opportunity, he said, as the currency will advance to 75 cents
by June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 