-- 
Bollard Weighs Key's Rate-Cut Call as RBNZ's Policy Move Splits Economists

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s   a n d   D a n i e l   P e t r i e
-- 
2011-03-09T01:12:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bollard-weighs-key-s-rate-cut-call-with-rbnz-s-next-policy-move.html
  New Zealand ’s central bank chief
faces a dilemma this week trying to guide an economy damaged by
the deadliest earthquake in 80 years without appearing to buckle
under pressure from the prime minister to cut  interest rates .  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News are divided about
Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard’s next policy
decision to be announced at 9 a.m. tomorrow in Wellington. Four
expect a quarter percentage-point cut to 2.75 percent, six
forecast a half-point drop and five predict no change.  The case for a rate cut was complicated after Prime
Minister John Key last week said he expected a reduction to help
an economy hobbled by the Feb. 22 quake that killed at least 160
in Christchurch. Bollard needs to revive stalled growth while
preserving the independence of a central bank that was the
world’s first with a legislated inflation target and is mandated
to conduct monetary policy free of political interference.  “These are highly uncharacteristic political comments,”
said  Philip Borkin , economist at Goldman Sachs & Partners New
Zealand Ltd. in Auckland. “They need to be taken into account
given that the governor and key government officials will
undoubtedly have met to discuss the potential economic impact
this earthquake will have.”  Borkin, who expects a quarter-point cut, has lowered his
2011 economic growth forecast to 1.5 percent from 2.8 percent.
The Treasury Department this week reduced its estimate by 1.5
percentage points and said gross domestic product may shrink in
the first quarter of the year. The central bank publishes new
forecasts tomorrow.  Inflation Threats  Even so, Bollard may choose to tolerate the near-term
decline in growth and keep interest rates unchanged, said Paul Bloxham, chief economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in Sydney. Global
inflation is accelerating,  oil prices  are rising and a currency
weakened by a rate reduction could push domestic inflation
higher, he said in a research note this week.  “The case for a cash-rate cut is not clear,” Bloxham, a
former Reserve Bank of Australia economist, said in predicting
no change tomorrow in New Zealand’s benchmark rate. “Last
week’s call from Prime Minister Key for rate cuts will not sway
the staunchly independent RBNZ.”  The central bank is required to keep average inflation in a
range of 1 percent to 3 percent, and is able to ignore temporary
movements outside this target range in event of a natural
disaster, he said, citing the agreement signed with the
government in December 2008.  Natural Disasters  In the event of a natural disaster affecting “a major part
of the economy,” the RBNZ “will respond consistent with
meeting its medium-term target,” the  policy agreement  states.  The magnitude 6.3 temblor struck New Zealand’s second-
biggest city at lunch time, wrecking buildings and forcing an
evacuation of the central business district. Output from the
South Island city, which makes up 15 percent of the nation’s GDP,
has slowed as workers left the city and offices were abandoned.  The same day the earthquake struck, Fonterra Cooperative
Group Ltd., the world’s largest dairy exporter, announced an
increase in its forecast payment to New Zealand farmers because
of rising dairy prices. The company expects to pay its 10,500
farmer shareholders NZ$7.50 ($5.54) per kilogram of milk solids
in the year to May 31, Auckland-based Fonterra said, up from a
December forecast of NZ$6.90.  Dollar Outlook  A quarter-point rate cut is a certainty this week,
according to a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on interest-
rate swaps. Within 12 months, the official cash rate will
probably be no higher than the current level of 3 percent,
according to a second Credit Suisse index.  New Zealand’s dollar is likely to rally if the central bank
disappoints markets by keeping the benchmark rate unchanged, AMP
Capital Investors said. The so-called kiwi has dropped since the
quake and is the worst-performing G-10 currency in the past
month, falling 4.3 percent.  The currency fell to the lowest level this year after Key
said he expected the central bank to cut rates.  “We’d certainly welcome it,” Key, a former head of
foreign exchange at Merrill Lynch & Co., said in a March 2
interview. “The market has priced in a cut from the  Reserve
Bank . That would probably be my expectation, that the Reserve
Bank would cut, but it’s for them to determine that.”  Tightening Bias  Bollard, who has headed the RBNZ since 2002, has kept
borrowing costs unchanged since July. In January, he said it was
prudent to keep the cash rate low “until the recovery becomes
more robust and underlying inflationary pressures show more
obvious signs of increasing.”  New Zealand’s economy was slowing before the February quake,
with risks that the nation fell into a recession in the second
half of 2010. GDP contracted in the third quarter and Finance
Minister Bill English said it was possible it shrank in the
three months ended Dec. 31 amid weak retail sales and housing
demand.  The  consumer price index  in fourth quarter rose 4 percent
from a year earlier, with about half the gain attributed to a
one-time increase in the nation’s sales tax.  Bollard had expected economic growth to accelerate this
year, supported by a global recovery, increased demand for the
nation’s commodity exports and reconstruction of Christchurch
after an earthquake in September that generated 170,000 damage
claims from local residents. Rebuilding is likely to be delayed
until 2012, the Treasury said on March 6.  Maintaining interest rates at current levels “won’t be
enough to kick-start the recovery in the wake of February’s
devastating earthquake,” said Katrina Ell, associate economist
at Moody’s Analytics Australia Pty in Sydney.  “Commercial banks need to see a concrete commitment by the
central bank to maintain stimulatory policy settings before  mortgage rates  will be lowered substantially,” she said. “Only
a rate cut will provide sufficient confidence for banks to pass
on the recent decline in wholesale funding costs to customers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Petrie in Sydney at 
 dpetrie5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  