-- 
BP Choosing Safety Over Output After Gulf Spill, Dudley Says

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   M i c h a e l   L e e
-- 
2011-03-08T22:19:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bp-is-changing-drilling-operations-after-gulf-spill-dudley-says.html
  BP Plc (BP/) , operator of the Macondo well
that exploded in the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico  last year, is focusing
on safety and technology instead of how many barrels of oil it
produces.  “We are emphasizing quality over quantity and value over
volume,” Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  said today in a
speech at CERAWeek, a Houston conference held by IHS Cambridge
Energy Research Associates. “BP is sorry, BP gets it and BP is
changing.”  Dudley, the first American CEO of London-based BP, said the
company is linking compensation to areas including safety, risk
management and compliance. BP said last week that two directors
got 30 percent of their target bonuses following the Gulf
catastrophe, while the rest of the company received none.  BP has a 65 percent stake in the Macondo well that exploded
last April, killing 11 workers and causing the biggest offshore
spill in U.S. history. BP has taken a charge of about $41
billion in expectation of possible liabilities, Dudley said. The
company reported its first annual loss in two decades for 2010.  BP continues to plan for $60 to $90 a barrel oil, with a
base case of $75, Dudley said. Crude oil for April delivery
dropped 42 cents to settle at $105.02 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contract ended yesterday at $105.44,
the highest settlement since Sept. 26, 2008. Futures are up 28
percent from a year ago.  “We’re not going to get exuberant, we’re going to stay
conservative right now, but we’ll watch all this very
carefully,” Dudley told reporters after his speech.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Lee in Houston at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  