-- 
BP Sells $3.7 Billion of Debt as Oil Rise Lifts Confidence in Energy Bonds

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-03-08T22:20:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bp-plans-bond-offer-as-rising-oil-prices-boost-confidence-in-energy-debt.html
BP Plc sold $3.7 billion of debt in
U.S. dollars as rising  oil prices  boost the bond market’s
confidence in energy producers and investor demand for corporate
debt accelerates.  BP Capital Markets Plc, a unit of  Europe ’s second-largest
oil company, sold $1.6 billion of 3.2 percent 5-year debt that
yields 100 basis points more than similar-maturity  U.S.
Treasuries  and $1.4 billion of 4.7 percent 10-year notes at a
spread of 120 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company also issued $700 million of floating-rate
bonds.  The cost to protect BP debt is approaching the lowest level
since an April explosion in the Gulf of Mexico caused the
largest offshore U.S. spill in history. Demand for energy
company debt has increased as crude prices have gained about 15
percent in New York this year.  “If you’re an integrated  oil company , then definitely
rising oil prices have helped corporate bond spreads,” said  Rajeev Sharma , a money manager in New York at First Investors
Management Co., where he helps oversee $1.5 billion.  The energy company is paying 60 basis points more than the
3-month London interbank offered rate on the three-year
floating-rate debt. BP initially marketed $500 million of the
securities.  Popular Revolts  Popular revolts sweeping the Middle East and North Africa,
home to more than half of the world’s proven oil reserves, have
pushed Brent crude-oil prices close to $120. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. raised its forecast for  Brent crude  in the second quarter
of the year to $105 a barrel amid fighting in  Libya  between
Muammar Qaddafi and rebels seeking to end his four-decade rule.  The expected $12.4 billion in corporate debt issuance today
will be the most since companies sold $17.7 billion of debt on
Jan. 20, Bloomberg data show.  BP last sold dollar-denominated debt on Sept. 28, issuing
$3.5 billion of securities, including $2 billion of 3.125
percent, 5-year notes that yielded 195 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries.  The notes traded at 101.4 cents on the dollar to pay 61
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries as of
yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  BP, facing billions of dollars in damages and penalties for
causing the  oil spill , yesterday sold 750 million pounds ($1.2
billion) of notes due December 2018 that were priced to yield
110 basis points more than U.K. government debt, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Swaps Decline  Credit-default swaps protecting against losses on BP debt
for five years have declined 23 basis points this year to 69.5
basis points, according to data provider CMA. The contracts have
decreased from at least 631 basis points on June 16 when the
executives met with President Barack Obama at the White House
and agreed to place about $20 billion over several years into a
fund to compensate residents along the  Gulf of Mexico . The swaps
traded as low as 42 basis points on April 15 before the
explosion, CMA data show.  “Mostly what the debt markets worry about is that you had
an open-ended liability,” said Jason Brady, a managing director
at Thornburg Investment Management in  Santa Fe ,  New Mexico .
“When it became less open-ended you could do some
calculations,” said Brady, who helps oversee $79 billion.  Energy Debt  The extra yield investors demand to hold energy company
bonds instead of government debt has declined 17 basis points
this year to 140 basis points, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  BP is graded A2 by Moody’s Investors Service, the sixth-
highest level, and an equivalent A by  Standard & Poor’s .  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc is the largest European energy
company by sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  