-- 
Pound Reaches One-Week Low Versus Dollar as Retail Sales, Home Prices Fall

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-03-08T16:41:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/british-pound-approaches-five-week-low-versus-euro-as-retail-sales-decline.html
The pound fell to a one-week low
against the dollar after reports showed retail sales declined in
February and  house prices  dropped, trimming expectations for
increases in interest rates this year.  Britain’s currency snapped a four-day decline versus the
euro. Retail sales dropped 0.4 percent from January, when they
gained 2.3 percent, a report from the  British Retail Consortium 
and  KPMG  showed. Bank of England policy makers will maintain the
U.K. interest rate at 0.5 percent when they meet on March 10,
according to all 61 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
U.K.’s debt management office sold 800 million pounds ($1.29
billion) of index-linked bonds.  The data “certainly hasn’t helped sterling,” said Lee McDarby, head of dealing on the corporate and institutional
treasury desk at Investec Plc in  London . “It is quite static at
the moment as the pound tries to poise itself for the BOE
meeting later this week.”  The pound was 0.3 percent lower at $1.6156 as of 4:38 p.m.
in London, after reaching $1.6126, the least since Feb. 28. It
has fallen against the greenback on each of the past four days.
Sterling strengthened to 86.07 pence per euro, from 86.21 pence
yesterday. It earlier reached 86.36 pence, the weakest since
Jan. 28.  The number of real-estate agents and surveyors saying
prices fell exceeded those seeing gains by 26 percentage points
in February, down from 31 percent in January, the  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said, matching the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Linker Sale  The U.K. debt management office sold 800 million pounds of
0.625 percent index-linked securities maturing in November 2042.
Investors bid for 2.8 times the securities on offer, pushing the
so-called bid-to-cover ratio up from 1.9 when the same
securities were last sold in December. They were sold at a real
yield of 0.713 percent, down from 0.763 in December.  “There were some people who were keen to get their hands
on it,” said Eric Wand, a rates strategist at Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets in London. “There still seems to be flow into
index-linked product, now only in the U.K. but elsewhere, given
concerns around commodity prices and food prices.”  U.K. 10-year government bonds fell, pushing the yield four
basis points higher to 3.67 percent. The 4.75 percent security
due March 2020 fell 0.325, or 3.25 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 108.18. Two-year note yields were two basis points
higher at 1.39 percent.  BOE Rates  Last month, three of the  Bank of England ’s nine-member
monetary policy panel voted to raise the benchmark interest rate
to tame inflation. U.K. interest rates will rise by 25 basis
points in June, according to sterling overnight index average
forwards data from Tullett Prebon Plc.  Soaring food and energy costs helped to push consumer
prices up an annual 4 percent in January, the most since
November 2008.  “Focus is on the BOE this week, but they won’t offer any
kind of policy statement,” said Chris Walker, a currency
strategist at UBS AG in London. “We are still looking for a
rate hike in May, but we could see a slight pound sell off
before then.”  Investor bets that the  European Central Bank  will raise
borrowing costs before the Bank of England are supporting Euro-
Pound above the 0.86 pence level, UniCredit SpA strategists led
by  Luca Cazzulani  wrote in a note published today.  Against the dollar, sterling may depreciate to $1.58 should
it weaken below $1.61, Kathleen Brooks, London-based research
director at Forex.com, part of online currency trader Gain
Capital, said today. Sterling hasn’t traded at $1.5800 or weaker
since Jan. 16, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Outlook  “In the short term, there isn’t much that’s going to prop
up sterling,” Brooks said. “The recovery might stall a bit.
The growth outlook is sterling-negative.”  The British Chambers of Commerce and U.K. consultancy
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP cut their outlook for economic growth
this year and said the London-based central bank should postpone
interest-rate increases.  A higher  bank rate  in the first half of 2011 would be a
mistake, the BCC said today. The London-based group sees the
rate rising to 1.25 percent at the end of this year.  Sterling has gained 3.3 percent against the dollar this
year amid speculation the British central bank will need to
raise interest rates to curb inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  