-- 
Brown Gets Silicon Valley Backing for Plan to Close $25.4 Billion Deficit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-03-08T21:02:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/brown-wins-silicon-valley-group-s-backing-for-california-budget-proposal.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  won
support for his deficit-closing package from the  Silicon Valley
Leadership Group , whose chief urged lawmakers to back the plan.
The organization includes  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Stanford University .  Brown, 72, has the best approach to fixing the state’s
chronic budget woes that have left it with the biggest U.S.
state deficit and the lowest  credit rating , Carl Guardino, the
group’s chief executive officer, said on emerging from a meeting
today with Brown in  Sacramento . Guardino, who represents more
than 300 members, urged legislators to strike a deal soon.  “We know in life that you never get what you want, but
this is the point where you find that 90 percent you can agree
on and make a deal that is good for  California  and move
forward,” Guardino said after the one-hour meeting in the
governor’s statehouse office.  Brown wants lawmakers to pass $12.5 billion of spending
cuts and to call a statewide special election in June to ask
voters to extend more than $9.3 billion of temporary taxes and
fees that are set to end. Brown has courted business groups to
help sway Republicans, who have sought to block his proposal.  The proposed ballot measure would seek a five-year
extension for fee and tax increases approved in 2009, when the
state faced a $42 billion deficit. It must pass the Legislature
soon in order to provide enough time to prepare ballots.  Lacking Enough Votes  Brown said yesterday he still lacks enough Republican
support to muster a two-thirds vote required to place the
measure on the ballot. Democrats control both the 80-member
Assembly, with 53 seats, and the Senate, where there are 15
Republicans out of 40 members.  Brown, in trying to close a $25.4 billion deficit projected
through June 2012, would ask voters to retain a 0.25 percentage-
point increase in personal income-tax rates; a 1 percentage-
point boost in the retail-sales tax rate, to 8.25 percent; an
increase in the rate for auto-registration fees of 0.5
percentage point, to 1.15 percent of a vehicle’s value; and to
reduce the state’s child tax credit to $99 from $309.  His plan has won backing from the Los Angeles Area Chamber
of Commerce, the largest business group in California’s most-
populous city, the Bay Area Council in  San Francisco  and the
California Association of Independent Business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 