-- 
Bulgari CEO Trapani Says Independent Jewelers Will Struggle

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-03-09T11:45:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bulgari-ceo-trapani-says-independent-jewelers-will-struggle.html
  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) 
and large luxury competitors will increasingly dominate the
industry as scale and global reach becomes more important, said  Bulgari SpA (BUL)  Chief Executive Officer Francesco Trapani.  “More and more, I think the big groups will be the
protagonists of the luxury business,” said Trapani, who this
week announced plans to sell Bulgari to LVMH, in an interview
yesterday at his  Rome  office.  LVMH will pay about 4.3 billion euros ($6 billion)
including debt to buy the world’s third-largest jewelry brand.
Bulgari, whose gems have been advertised by Julianne Moore,
trailed rivals including Cartier owner Cie. Financiere Richemont
SA in recovering from the financial crisis. LVMH will invest
more in Bulgari in the future to ensure its growth, Trapani
said.  “Life will be progressively more difficult for the
independents that are also not large enough,” Trapani said,
without identifying rivals that will struggle.  “When you don’t
have scale, you can win anyhow, but it’s becoming more
difficult. You have a handicap.”  Bulgari lags behind Geneva-based Richemont and  New York- 
based Tiffany Co. in the global jewelry market. The company is
due to report 2010 earnings on March 11. Trapani said he doesn’t
expect to show any “particular surprise” with the figures.  Dilution  The purchase will dilute LVMH’s earnings per share by about
1 percent before so-called synergies are realized, the company
said March 7. Bulgari’s sales gained 25 percent in January and
February at constant rates of exchange. The Italian company’s
order book more than doubled at the end of February.  While there were “a lot of people interested in doing
something” with Bulgari, Trapani and his family chose LVMH
because, as the world’s largest maker of  luxury goods , it is
powerful and diversified and because it made the right offer,
the executive said.  “Their philosophy is independence on the one side and this
support system to facilitate your activity and to speed the
process and to do less mistakes,” he said.  LVMH agreed to purchase the Bulgari family’s 50.4 percent
stake for 1.87 billion euros in stock and will make a tender
offer for the remaining shares. Under the terms of the deal,
Trapani and his family, who will be become LVMH’s second largest
family shareholder with a 3.3 percent stake, are locked in for
as long as two years.  ‘Star Brand’  “The minority shareholders are treated even better than
us” as they can sell their shares immediately, Trapani said.  Trapani, 53, will become head of watches and jewelry at
LVMH, replacing Philippe Pascal, who will remain on the
company’s executive committee and be given new responsibilities
in the group. Bulgari’s founding family sees LVMH Chairman and
CEO  Bernard Arnault  as a partner, Trapani said.  “I don’t think he’s really a guy who wants to squeeze the
founders out of the business,” Trapani said.  LVMH’s watch and jewelry business, which includes Tag Heuer
timepieces and De Beers diamond necklaces, combined with Bulgari
would have had 2010 sales of 2.05 billion euros on a so-called
pro-forma basis, doubling the size of LVMH’s existing business.  LVMH “have decided to invest so much money into Bulgari
because they think it’s a star brand and it gives them the
possibility to change their situation in the watch and jewelry
segment, where they are relatively weak,” said Trapani, who
spent a day with Arnault in Rome last week before agreeing to
the deal.  “They are not stupid. They don’t invest huge amounts of
money into brands just to dilute these brands,” he said.  Bulgari was founded in 1884 by Sotirio Bulgari. Trapani,
who has run the company since 1984, is a family member. The
company has been listed on the Milan stock exchange since 1995.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
A. Craig Copetas at   ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 