-- 
Bundesbank Sees ‘Moderate’ Euro-Region Growth Continuing in 2011

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-03-08T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/bundesbank-sees-moderate-euro-region-growth-continuing-in-2011.html
  Germany ’s Bundesbank comments on the
euro region’s fiscal crisis, fiscal governance reform and
economic growth.  The Frankfurt-based central bank made the remarks in its
annual report published today.  On euro-area growth:  “The already available indicators suggest that the
moderate growth observed at the end of the year 2010 has
continued in the first quarter of 2011.”  We will see “moderate growth in 2011 and a certain
strengthening in 2012.”  On Germany’s budget deficit:  “Due to positive economic and budgetary developments, the
3 percent limit could be met as soon as the end of 2011 -- two
years before the deadline set” by European finance ministers.  On the fiscal crisis:  “While the resulting distortions are a serious test for
the currency union, we’re not facing an overall crisis of the
currency union or a crisis of the euro. The European currency
union is and will continue to be a success story. The euro is a
stable currency.”  “Without suitable steps to keep public debts within
sustainable boundaries in the current circumstances, a definite
further increase of tensions in capital markets with serious
consequences for growth and employment could be expected.”  On reform of economic governance:  “The imminent decisions on the reform of economic
governance in the European Economic Union have to be designed in
a way to strengthen the incentives for sustainable fiscal
policies at the level of the member states. In addition, the
stability of the financial sector as a whole must be
strengthened.”  On the German banking system:  “The low short-term  interest rates  are fostering the
taking of liquidity risks and are increasing the dependence on
volatile market developments. Although the German banking system
has progressed to a more stable composition of refinancing
options, the refinancing through capital markets and bond
issuances has become more short-term oriented. The necessary
correction of this expansion into the short-term sector has been
due for some time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net . 