-- 
Buy American Express Calls as Stock May Rise, Jefferies Says

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-03-08T21:08:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/buy-american-express-calls-in-bet-stock-to-rise-jefferies-says.html
Investors should buy  call options  in  American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest credit-card issuer by
purchases, as the stock may advance, while selling Capital One
Financial Corp. calls, Jefferies Group Inc. said.  Jefferies equity derivatives strategists recommended buying
AmEx’s April $45 calls because the New York-based company may
announce a stock buyback and its write-offs are at the lowest
levels since early 2008, both of which could boost the shares.
They also suggested that investors sell Capital One April $50
calls to finance the trade. AmEx rose 3.5 percent, the most
since November, to $45.24 today, while Capital One gained 2
percent to $49.28.  “AmEx has been a big laggard versus other credit cards the
past three months, especially relative to  Capital One Financial
Corp. (COF) ,” the strategists wrote. “Potential upcoming positive
catalysts make April upside options attractive.”  AmEx may have more capital than it needs to meet regulatory
requirements, and the company could deploy its extra cash
through buybacks, today’s note said. AmEx has the lowest
delinquency and write-off rates among the six-biggest U.S.
credit-card issuers. Write-offs fell to 3.8 percent in January
and loans at least 30 days overdue, an indicator for future
defaults, held at 2.1 percent, the New York-based company said
in a Feb. 15 regulatory filing.  ‘Extreme Underperformance’  The stock movement of AmEx versus McLean, Virginia-based
Capital One “shows extreme underperformance that looks ready to
correct,” the strategists said.  Daniel T. Henry, AmEx’s chief financial officer, said
earlier this year that a share-repurchase program may resume if
the  Federal Reserve  gives permission to do so. The Fed’s
decision may come by the end of March, Henry said in a Jan. 24
earnings conference call.  AmEx has issued a dividend of 18 cents per share for the
past 13 quarters, and it will declare another dividend of that
amount on March 21, according to a Bloomberg forecast.  Calls give the right to buy 100 shares of a security for a
certain amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the
right to sell. Investors use options to guard against
fluctuations in the price of securities they own, speculate on
share-price moves or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will
rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  