-- 
McDonald’s February U.S. Sales Rise 2.7%, Trailing Estimates

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-03-08T21:18:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/mcdonald-s-february-same-store-sales-climb-3-9-worldwide-on-asia-growth.html
  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
biggest restaurant chain, reported sales rose 2.7 percent at
stores open at least 13 months in the U.S. last month, missing
analysts’ estimates.  Analysts had projected a gain of 4 percent, according to
the average of three estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Global
comparable sales increased 3.9 percent, the  Oak Brook , Illinois-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts had estimated
same-store sales would rise 3.8 percent.  The fast-food chain said when it reported fourth-quarter
earnings that its specialty McCafe coffee beverages and fruit
smoothies helped drive profit. McDonald’s, with more than 32,000
locations worldwide, started selling fruit and maple oatmeal in
January in the U.S., which accounts for one-third of sales.  McDonald’s new menu items may be “losing momentum,” said
Matthew DiFrisco, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York .
“Is something like oatmeal going to be as incremental as the
products they’ve launched in the past?” He rates the shares
“market perform.”  The company fell 75 cents, or 1 percent, to $75.54 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. McDonald’s
has gained 16 percent over the past 12 months.  Second Time  February marks the second time in the past year that same-
store sales gains have been less than 3 percent in the U.S.
Global sales growth fell below 4 percent for a second time in
the past 12 months.  The Subway sandwich chain recently surpassed McDonald’s in
number of stores, growing to more than 34,000 locations
worldwide. Still, McDonald’s leads in revenue, which increased
to $24.1 billion last year, compared with $15.2 billion for
Subway, according to Kevin Kane, a Subway spokesman. Milford,
Connecticut-based Subway is a closely held company.  McDonald’s, led by Chief Executive Officer James Skinner,
said sales climbed 5.1 percent in  Europe , compared with an
estimate of 3.8 percent. Premium beef promotions and burgers
spurred growth in France and the U.K.  In  Asia ,  Africa  and the Middle East, same-store sales
gained 4 percent; analysts had predicted a gain of 1.8 percent.
The company, which has about 1,300 restaurants in  China , has
raised prices there during the past year to combat inflation.  Comparable, or same-store sales, are an indicator of growth
because the numbers only include older restaurants. January
same-stores sales increased 5.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 Rajello@bloomberg.net  