-- 
Charlie Sheen Could Teach Wall Street a Lesson: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 
2011-03-08T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/charlie-sheen-could-teach-wall-street-a-lesson-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
It would take most of us a few dozen
lifetimes to amass 2 million followers on Twitter. And yet
Charlie Sheen managed it in less than a week.  Last month,  CBS Corp. (CBS)  discontinued the hit comedy show
“Two and a Half Men” after Sheen’s public jousting with senior
management over a binge that the wild-man actor has described as
“epic” and “radical.” Since then, he has become one of the
biggest names on the planet.  What is fascinating about this whole fandango isn’t Sheen’s
public dramas. It is the way he has given us a master-class in
modern media promotion and how  Wall Street  shareholders, who
ultimately own his former employer, have allowed themselves to
be so completely outwitted.  Big companies seem to expect their celebrities to have
stepped straight out of a 1950s suburb. From  Kate Moss , to Tiger Woods, to  Charlie Sheen , any hint of “inappropriate” behavior
has the sponsors running faster than one of Sheen’s female
companions can drop her, er, earrings.  And yet if there is a single lesson to be learned from the
last decade, it is that the public -- or the customer -- is more
forgiving. In fact, the more outrageously a celebrity behaves,
and the less contrition he or she shows, the more we find them
alluring. It pays to be bad, and slightly nutty as well.  If CBS can’t figure that out, perhaps it’s time the
shareholders changed the management. Sheen clearly knows a lot
more about how 21st-century business operates than they do.  ‘Sober Valley Lodge’  As I write, Sheen has sent a  Twitter update  from “Sober
Valley Lodge.” Rachel, one of the “goddesses” he lives with,
has just left the building. He’s keeping his new customers --
all 2 million of them -- informed of every development.  Sheen has clearly struck a nerve. His over-the-top partying
isn’t just amusing. It is the kind of escapism that audiences
want. Rolling Stones guitarist Keith Richards has been an iconic
figure for 40 years with his excessive lifestyle, so it wasn’t
surprising to see that his autobiography topped the best-seller
charts over Christmas. We don’t want celebrities who come across
as drab and boring.  When British model Kate Moss was photographed taking drugs,
her sponsors ran for cover. But Moss soon came back as popular
as ever. Golfer  Tiger Woods  was dropped by many of his corporate
backers after his chaotic love life was revealed. But so what?
Tiger is back on the circuit, and once his swing is restored to
its best, it is a fair bet the sponsors will show up again.  Bigger Than Ever  Sheen’s new army of followers on Twitter suggests his
audience is rooting for his return. Anyone can see he will
bounce back a bigger star than ever. CBS may well end up
rehiring him. If it does, it will probably have to double or
triple his pay. If it doesn’t, someone else will.  The odd thing is that they dropped him at all -- and that
shareholders didn’t demand the board’s resignation. After all,
the company made some catastrophic errors of judgment.  First, Sheen is entitled to a private life. He’s not an
elected official and doesn’t offer moral guidance to anyone. If
he wants to party like a wild animal, that’s his business. He is
a fine actor, as movies such as “ Platoon ” (1986) and “ Wall
Street ” (1987) showed. It’s ridiculous to expect him to behave
like a Sunday school teacher. Since when were sitcom stars
expected to be celibate teetotalers? There is no obligation on
him to live his life by anyone else’s rules.  Companies Need Stars  Second, he’s the talent. A hedge fund wouldn’t fire the
star trader if he was a drug user or an alcoholic. It would have
to get rid of half the staff if it did. A publishing house
doesn’t drop its biggest-selling writer because he or she keeps
a bottle of vodka next to the computer. There would be far fewer
books to read if it did. Media companies need stars more than
stars need media companies. It’s that simple.  Third, and most importantly, they have misunderstood the
way modern celebrity works. From  Keith Richards  to  Paris Hilton 
to Charlie Sheen, we actually like the famous to be flamboyant,
larger-than-life figures. They are fantasy characters through
whom many people live vicariously. We like them to live
outrageous lives. They do stuff that most of us don’t, but are
happy to read about, and laugh about. It increases their appeal
-- and Sheen is simply the latest example of that.  CBS doesn’t appear to get that. Neither does Wall Street.
Fame is the essential raw material for any corporation in the
entertainment industry. They should realize that Sheen, even
with a bottle of bourbon in one hand and a porn star in the
other, knows much more about business than they do.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  