-- 
Chile Peso Slides Most in a Week as Copper Prices Decline Faster Than Oil

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-03-08T17:10:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/chilean-peso-slides-most-in-a-week-as-copper-s-fall-worsens-terms-of-trade.html
The Chilean peso fell the most in a
week as the price of copper, the country’s main export, declined
faster than oil prices, weakening the country’s terms of trade.  The peso slid 0.3 percent, more than the other six major
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg, to 475.26 per  U.S. dollar  from 473.85 yesterday.  As copper falls compared with oil,  Chile ’s export income
declines relative to the cost of its imports.  South America ’s
fifth-largest economy relies on imports for 99 percent of its
oil while oil and gasoline are its two largest imports.  “Terms of trade keep hitting the local economy,” said
Alejandro Araya, a trader at Banco Santander SA in Santiago.
“Copper is falling and oil remains above $100. As long as they
don’t fall into line we’ll have the peso between 474 and 478 per
dollar.”  Foreign investors in the Chilean peso forwards market had a
net bet of $1.3 billion that the peso would weaken against the
dollar as of March 4, central bank data show.  Copper declined on concern that high  oil prices  may slow
economic growth. A pound of the metal for May delivery slid as
much as 1.7 percent to $4.254 on the Comex in  New York .  Chile’s central bank bought $50 million today at an average
of 475.5 pesos per U.S. dollar, according to its website, as
part of a $12 billion plan to weaken the peso.  The bank is scheduled to announce today whether it will
reduce or continue its daily dollar buying. Economists Rodrigo Aravena at Banchile Inversiones and Felipe Alarcon at Banco de
Credito & Inversiones said they don’t expect any changes.  Inflation Expectations  The peso weakened 6.6 percent in the first week after the
bank announced its dollar-buying plan. That weakness contributed
to an increase in inflation expectations, which is now fueling
speculation that the central bank will consider accelerating the
pace of its interest-rate increases on March 17.  Factors other than the bank’s dollar purchases are now
driving the currency. It was the weakest currency in the region
in January and the strongest in February as copper rose to a
record. So far in March the peso is little changed as
expectations of rate rises mitigate the weaker terms of trade.  Buying a greater volume of dollars every day would mean the
bank needs to sell more bonds to soak up the extra pesos it
would be leaving in the market, said Banchile’s Aravena.  “That could mean an increase in yields which, given the
probable rise in central bank rates, could have a very negative
effect on the fixed-income market,” he said. “The only thing
the dollar buying is achieving is the accumulation of
international reserves, nothing else.”  Inflation-Linked Debt  The bank may say it plans to sell an increased volume of
inflation-linked debt, according to BCI’s Alarcon.  Yields on central bank inflation-linked bonds have declined
as traders price in expectations of faster-rising prices. Banco
Security this week recommended investors have all bond
portfolios in short- and medium-term inflation-linked debt.  “Anything that even looks inflation-linked gets bought up
completely,” Alarcon said. “It wouldn’t be a surprise if the
bank kept overweighting inflation-linked bond sales versus
pesos. They may want to affect breakeven inflation and they
could do that by overweighting inflation-linked issuance.”  Breakeven inflation is a measure of the gap between
inflation-linked and nominal yields. It reflects traders’
estimation of the likely average of future inflation.  The gap between 10-year nominal and inflation-linked
central bank bonds rose to 3.81 percent on March 2, the highest
since October 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  