-- 
Chilean Monthly Inflation Slows to 0.2% in February, Matching Estimates

-- B y   R a n d y   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-03-08T14:13:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/chilean-monthly-inflation-slows-to-0-2-in-february-matching-estimates.html
  Chile ’s consumer prices increased
0.2 percent in February from the previous month, matching the
median forecast of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Prices excluding fresh food and fuel rose 0.2 percent while
annual inflation was unchanged from a month earlier at 2.7
percent, the National Statistics Institute said today. Core and
annual inflation were also in line with analysts’ forecasts.  Chilean inflation expectations had soared this year after
the central bank started buying dollars to weaken the peso,
which makes imports more expensive, and the price of oil,
Chile’s biggest import, climbed to two-year highs. Rising
expectations have cemented forecasts of central bank interest-
rate rises.  “February is typically a month with very low or even
negative inflation and we already have 0.5 percent accumulated
in the year,” said  Rodrigo Aravena , chief economist at Banchile
Inversiones in Santiago. “And even though the headline
inflation wasn’t high, costs are rising fast. The most likely
result is that the bank raises by 25 basis points, but the
discussion isn’t going to be whether to raise or hold, but
whether to raise by 25 or 50 basis points.”  The central bank yesterday reported economic growth for
January that beat estimates, which may lead it to consider a 50
basis point rise,  Alberto Ramos , a New York-based economist at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a client note. Policymakers
may favor a 25-basis point increase amid “mild” inflation and
an appreciating currency, he wrote.  Monthly Inflation Slows  Monthly inflation was 0.3 percent in January and 0.1
percent in December, while the annual rate slowed to 2.7 percent
in January from 3 percent in the previous month.  Chile has tools to deal with spikes in fuel prices, Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain told reporters today in Santiago. While
February’s data show the economy growing as inflation remains
under control, the government will remain vigilant as
international price pressure persists, he said.  One-year breakeven inflation, which reflects traders’
expectations of average price rises over the next 12 months, is
up 111 basis points this year to 4.63 percent while two-year
breakeven increased to 4.46 percent from 3.54 percent. Chile’s
central bank targets annual inflation of 3 percent plus or minus
1 percentage point over a two-year horizon.  Flattening Yield Curve  Investors can brace themselves for interest-rate rises
causing Chile’s yield curve to flatten by buying long-dated debt
in pesos and short-dated debt denominated in unidades de
fomento, an inflation-linked accounting unit, Aravena said.  “Long-term peso yields are attractive,” he said. “It is
difficult for them to keep rising.”  Banco Security recommends bond investors shift 100 percent
of their portfolios into inflation-linked securities, it said in
a note to clients.  Chile’s peso, the best-performing Latin American currency
tracked by Bloomberg in the past month, weakened 0.3 percent to
475.45 per  U.S. dollar  at 8:58 a.m.  New York  time, from 473.85
yesterday.  Copper, Chile’s biggest export, declined on concern that
high  oil prices  may slow economic growth. A pound of the metal
for May delivery slid as much as 1.7 percent to $4.254 on the
Comex in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randy Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net  or
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  