-- 
China Power Regulator Says Must Consider Inflation for Electricity Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-08T05:18:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/china-power-regulator-says-must-consider-inflation-for-electricity-prices.html
  China , the world’s biggest energy
consumer, must take inflation into account when deciding whether
to raise electricity prices, Wang Xudong, head of the nation’s
power regulator, said in Beijing today.  “We should coordinate with various departments and
consider the social impact such as inflation before changing
power prices,” Wang, chairman of the State Electricity
Regulatory Commission, said in an interview after a meeting held
as part of the National People’s Congress.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  targeted inflation as China’s top
economic priority this year in his annual state-of-the-nation
address on March 5, as policy makers seek to rein in home and
food prices and to maintain social stability. The government
last raised electricity prices in November 2009 and kept power
costs unchanged last year as inflation exceeded targets.  “Electricity prices are more sensitive than other energy
products because they affect everybody,” Zhang Shun, an analyst
with Beijing-based Ping An Securities Co., said by telephone.
“China may refrain from raising power tariffs in the near
future because the government has made it clear that tackling
inflation is one of the major tasks for 2011.”  Power Plant Losses  About 43 percent of coal-fired power plants in China lost
money last year as state-capped retail power prices and rising
fuel costs squeezed margins, Li Xiaolin, chairwoman of  China
Power International Development Ltd. (2380) , said on March 4.  China Huaneng Group’s coal-fired plants posted losses in
2010, Cao Peixi, president of the nation’s biggest power
generator, said today.  “There are many reasons why coal-fired power plants in
China lost money, not only because of coal and electricity
prices,” the electricity commission’s Wang said. “It’s also
related to financing costs and the scale of power producers.”    Huaneng Power International Inc. (902) , the listed unit of China
Huaneng Group, fell 1.1 percent at the midday break in Shanghai
trading today. Datang International Power Generation Co., the
listed unit of China’s second-biggest generator, declined 1.2
percent.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bloomberg News at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  