-- 
China Imports of New Zealand Milk Jump Five-Fold, Aiding Quake-Hit Nation

-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 
2011-03-08T20:15:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/china-imports-of-new-zealand-milk-jump-five-fold-aiding-quake-hit-nation.html
  China ’s milk imports from  New
Zealand  surged more than five-fold since 2008 as rising incomes
stoked demand, sending prices to a record and bolstering the
economy as it recovers from the deadliest earthquake in 80 years.  China, the biggest importer of New Zealand dairy products
by value, purchased about 353 million kilograms of the country’s
milk products in 2010, up from 69 million kilograms in 2008,
according to government data supplied by Fonterra Cooperative
Group Ltd., the world’s largest exporter. Fonterra processes 95
percent of the country’s milk and earns a fifth of its export
revenues, the  company  said.  New Zealand is relying on China and other emerging markets
to buy more dairy products to rekindle economic growth after a
contraction in the quarter ended Sept. 30. Asian consumers are
demanding more protein as incomes and nutrition levels rise,
said Con Williams, rural economist at ANZ National Bank Ltd.  “Milk’s going to be an important component because it’s
about 25 percent of export earnings,” Williams said. “It’s
going to be a cornerstone in terms of earning overseas dollars
and then getting that through the economy.”  Prime Minister John Key said March 2 there’s likely to be
“virtually no growth” in New Zealand for the financial year
through June. The economy might have contracted in the fourth
quarter of 2010, entering its second recession in two years,
Finance Minister Bill English said last month.  An economic recovery may be slowed by the 6.3-magnitude
earthquake that struck the South Island city of Christchurch on
Feb. 22, killing more than 160  people  and causing an estimated
NZ$15 billion in damage.  Growth Cut  Economic growth in 2011 is expected to be 1.5 percentage
points lower because of the temblor, according to the  Treasury
Department . A “small contraction” in real gross domestic
product is predicted in the March quarter, compared with a 0.5
percent growth forecast before the quake, it said on March 6.  High prices for New Zealand’s commodity exports may help
Christchurch recover from its second quake in six months,
English said March 1. Export prices rose for a sixth month to a
record in February, according to the ANZ Commodity Price Index.  Whole milk powder prices surged 41 percent in Fonterra’s
last seven global auctions, prompting the company to freeze
local wholesale prices for the rest of this year.  Prices reached a record on March 2 amid sustained demand
from China and concerns rising input costs may curb supply. Milk
prices will likely remain at least 50 percent above historical
averages in the longer term, Fonterra’s Chief Executive Officer
Andrew Ferrier said on Feb. 14.  Diet Shift  As developing nations’ incomes rise, diets are expected to
include more meat and processed foods, favoring dairy and
livestock, according to an annual outlook from the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development and the  United Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization  last June.  Global food prices have surged on increased demand coupled
with harvest disruptions, including a drought in China, as well
as heavier-than-usual rains across parts of  Asia . Food prices
climbed to a record last month, according to a 55-item basket
tracked by the United Nations.  China imported about NZ$2.1 billion ($1.6 billion) worth of
New Zealand dairy products in 2010 from $732 million in 2008,
according to the government data. The country’s milk imports are
likely to remain strong this year as local supply struggles to
meet demand growth, according to a Feb. 14 forecast from  Dairy
Australia .  Higher incomes,  population growth  and concerns about the
safety of domestic milk supply after a melamine contamination in
2008 killed at least six infants will buoy demand, Williams said.  Dairy Farms  “Over the medium term, New Zealand is well positioned to
supply that,” he said. “Longer term, it’s how can you work
with the Chinese in the country to grow supply from what they
have in terms of resources.”  Fonterra in October agreed to develop a dairy farm in
China’s Hebei province to expand local milk production. Its
existing Tangshan farm has doubled to more than 6,000 cows since
it opened in 2007 and produces about 25 million liters of milk
for local consumption.  Other countries that recorded the largest growth in imports
include  India  and  Sudan . India’s imports of New Zealand dairy
products more than doubled to NZ$162 million last year,
according to the government data. The value of Sudan imports
jumped to NZ$114 million from NZ$39 million in 2008.    Australia  and the U.S. were the second- and third-biggest
importers of New Zealand dairy products in 2010, according to
the data. Australia bought NZ$853 million and the U.S. purchased
NZ$748 million of dairy products last year.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Wellington at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  James Poole  at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 