-- 
China Copper Demand May Be Highest Since 2008, Tongling Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-08T07:47:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/china-copper-demand-may-be-highest-since-2008-tongling-says-1-.html
  China ’s copper demand may be the
highest in at least four years in 2011 as sales of home
appliances and vehicles boost consumption of the metal, Tongling
Nonferrous Metals Group Co., the nation’s second-largest copper
producer, said.  Smelters in China are operating at more than 90 percent
capacity and most are using more scrap material than usual
because of high refined prices, Chairman Wei Jianghong told
reporters in Beijing while attending the National People’s
Congress.  Copper touched a record $10,190 a ton in  London  last month
after surging 30 percent in 2010, as the global economy
recovered from the worst recession since World War II. China,
the world’s biggest consumer of copper, targets economic growth
of 8 percent this year. Demand is rising as the nation upgrades
networks, and builds more homes, autos and appliances.  “Overall, copper demand this year will be good - certainly
it will be better than 2008, 2009 and 2010,” Wei said. He
didn’t give a forecast. “Demand for rods and tubes are good,
driven by higher sales of home appliances and vehicles.”  Sales of Chinese made vehicles will grow between 10 percent
and 15 percent this year from 2010, the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers said in January. Copper demand in China
may gain 7 percent in 2011 on economic growth, Jiangxi Copper Co.
Chairman Li Yihuang said on March 5.  High Prices  “High copper prices have prompted miners globally to ramp
up production. They are operating at full capacity, so copper
material supplies are more available,” Wei said. “Scrap
material supply also increased quickly,” and imports may
continue to grow, he said.  Copper processing fees that miners pay smelters to make
refined metal should rise in the second half and next year to
reflect rising copper prices and more availability of copper
materials, Wei said. Tongling’s purchase of copper concentrates
accounts for 30 percent of China’s total imports a year, he said.  Still, Tongling is “concerned” that consistently high
copper prices may prompt users to switch to aluminum substitutes,
Wei said.  --Xiao Yu. Editors: Alan Soughley,  Richard Dobson   To contact the reporter on this story:
Yu Xiao in Beijing at 
 yxiao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  