-- 
China May Deflect Geithner Pressure by Reporting Smaller February Surplus

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-09T02:15:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/china-may-deflect-geithner-pressure-by-reporting-smaller-february-surplus.html
China may deflect international
pressure for faster yuan appreciation by reporting the nation’s
smallest  trade surplus  in 10 months tomorrow.  The excess was $4.9 billion in February, from $6.5 billion
a month earlier, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey of 21 economists. Data for the first two months of
the year is typically distorted by the timing of a Lunar New
Year holiday.  A smaller surplus may support China’s contention that the
world’s second-largest economy is moving toward balanced trade
as imports climb. Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  said March 7
that it’s “totally unreasonable” to say the yuan is
undervalued, rejecting renewed calls by  U.S. Treasury  Secretary  Timothy Geithner  for faster gains.  “The smaller surplus in the last three months, combined
with the trend we saw in the last two years, shows  China ’s
rebalancing efforts are working,” said Sun Chi, a Hong Kong-
based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. who previously worked
for the U.S. Treasury in Beijing. “It will also alleviate the
pressure for yuan gains.”  Economists combine Chinese data for the first two months of
the year to eliminate distortions. On that basis, the surplus
may be $11 billion, about half the amount a year earlier. The
boost to imports from higher commodity costs is playing a role,
Sun said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  highlighted efforts to boost domestic
demand as a “long-term strategic principle” in his annual
report to the legislature in Beijing on March 5.  Yuan Falls  Exports may have climbed an annual 27 percent in February,
with imports rising 33 percent, the survey showed.  The yuan dropped 0.1 percent to 6.5720 per dollar in
Shanghai as of 9:44 a.m. Non-deliverable forwards traded at
6.4155, reflecting bets the currency will strengthen 2.4 percent
in a year.  “While seasonal adjustment is tricky at this time of the
year, the typical pattern will be for the trade surplus to
rebound after narrowing early in the year,” said  David Cohen , a
Singapore-based economist for Action Economics who has
previously worked for the U.S. Federal Reserve.  The annual
surplus may be about $160 billion, down from $183 billion last
year, he estimated.  That level will “still leave pressure for yuan
appreciation,” he added.  China may report trade deficits in some months this year,
Chen said at the National People’s Congress in Beijing on March
7. That has only happened once in the past six years, in March
2010.  Currency Stability  The commerce minister also said that the yuan will
appreciate gradually over the long term, adding that basic
stability in the currency aids the global recovery.  Some U.S. lawmakers, including Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , complain China is holding down the yuan’s value to
give its exporters an unfair advantage over American rivals.
China is the world’s No. 1 exporting nation by value of
shipments.  Chinese companies can accept annual gains in the currency
of 3 percent to 5 percent, Bank of China Ltd. President Li Lihui
said at the Beijing congress on March 5. Central bank Deputy
Governor  Yi Gang  said the same day that the yuan’s  exchange rate 
is the closest it has been to “equilibrium.”  China is “committed” to moving to a market-determined,
flexible exchange rate and understands the importance of
allowing the yuan to appreciate, the International Monetary
Fund’s Zhu Min said on March 7. “The only question remaining is
the speed,” Zhu, a special adviser to the IMF and a former
Chinese central bank deputy governor, said in Arlington,
Virginia.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Paul Panckhurst,  John Liu .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  