-- 
China’s Thirst Makes Wahaha’s ‘Poorest Boss’ the Richest

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-09T10:22:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/china-s-thirst-turns-wahaha-ceo-from-poorest-boss-to-richest.html
Zong Qinghou,  China ’s  richest 
person with a fortune estimated to be at least $8 billion, says
his personal spending averages $20 a day. The soda and juice
magnate doesn’t gamble, drink or play golf and eats his meals
at the company canteen.  Zong’s frugality extends to how he runs Hangzhou Wahaha
Group Co., the third-largest soft drinks company in China. Its
headquarters for more than two decades have been in a six-floor
gray building next to a  railway station  in the eastern Chinese
city of Hangzhou. Former Wahaha marketing director Shang Yang
said he remembers Zong, a Communist Party member, personally
reviewing every expense, including the purchase of a broom.  “One of the reasons he’s been so successful is he keeps
costs down, making sure every dollar spent goes toward making
more money,”  Shaun Rein , Shanghai-based managing director of
China Market Research Group, said. “He doesn’t show off his
wealth. He toes the party line.”  Zong, 65, says he’s now ready to spend. Closely held
Wahaha has accumulated $2 billion in cash for expansion,
including a foray into retailing with a planned 100 department
stores. The company he started with a 140,000 yuan ($21,300)
loan in 1987 aims to boost sales 27 percent this year to 70
billion yuan, he said in a March 1 interview in Beijing.  Market Share  “I want Wahaha to be among the world’s top 500 companies
within five years,” said Zong, a  delegate  to China’s
parliament whose ranking shot up from No. 63 on Forbes’ list of
richest Chinese in 2007 to the top slot last year.  Wahaha will initially set up stores in second-tier or
third-tier Chinese cities, Zong said, following the strategy he
used to turn an ice-pop and soda shop into a beverage company
with a higher market share than PepsiCo Inc. in the world’s
most populous nation.  The maker of Wahaha-brand juices and  mineral water 
controls 7.2 percent of China’s soft-drinks market, according
to data from Euromonitor International. It trails  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,
with 17.2 percent, and Tingyi   Cayman Islands ) Holding Co.,
with 13.2 percent. PepsiCo ranks fourth at 6.6 percent.
Building department stores and supermarkets across China will
help widen Wahaha’s distribution network, said Zong.  China’s biggest urban centers such as Beijing, Shanghai
and Guangzhou have been “conquered by established players”
such as  Parkson Retail Group Ltd. (3368)  and there’s greater potential
for a new business in the smaller cities, he said. Beijing-
based Parkson, which has a profit margin of 26 percent,
quadrupled net income in the five years through 2010 to 992
million yuan.  Mao’s Strategy  Zong uses Mao Zedong’s strategy of “surrounding the
cities from the countryside,” said Shang, Wahaha’s national
marketing director from 1998 to 2003. Mao, the founder of the
 People’s Republic of China , won the country’s  civil war  at
least partly by strengthening his position in rural areas.  The Wahaha chairman said his first job after finishing
middle school at 18 was to collect brine at a salt farm in the
port city of Zhoushan in eastern Zhejiang province. The son of
a government clerk, Zong said he heeded Mao’s call to work in
China’s countryside. A year later, he moved to an agricultural
farm, where he worked for 14 years.  “Zong knows China’s rural markets and if Wahaha were to
go into retail it would make sense for them to go into retail
in second-tier, third-tier or even fourth-tier cities, because
land prices are much lower, especially in central and western
China,” said Jason Yuan, a Shanghai-based analyst at UOB-Kay
Hian Holdings Ltd.  Cash Pile  Wahaha is already in talks with some city governments as
it may need to buy land to open stores, Zong said. The
expansion into retailing may further lift sales to 100 billion
yuan, he said, without providing a timeframe. The company’s
revenue grew 27 percent to 55 billion yuan last year.  “Sitting on a big cash pile of 13 billion yuan, it’s very
difficult to know what to do with it,” said  Rupert Hoogewerf ,
founder and compiler of the  Hurun Report , which estimates
Zong’s wealth at $12 billion, 50 percent more than Forbes’
approximation. “His key business doesn’t need that much extra
money to invest.”  Still, Rein said Wahaha has no experience in retailing, a
business that’s “not easy to understand.”  Wahaha will expand into retailing because the margins are
“much better than in manufacturing,” according to Zong, who
said he works every day including the Lunar New Year holidays,
when most of China shuts down.  No Time  While Zong is wealthy, his personal annual spending
doesn’t exceed 50,000 yuan, he said. “I spend less than my
employees, simply because I have no time.”  When he isn’t traveling to meet distributors, he gets to
work at 7 a.m. daily and finishes about 11 p.m. His office, a
triangular 650 square foot room, has a bed for when he can’t
make it home.  “Zong is like a general in the army,” said the  Hurun
Report ’s Hoogewerf. “He dresses very low key, he doesn’t have
any luxury habits with exception of drinking a certain type of
tea and smoking a certain type of cigarette.”  Zong said he prefers Dragon Well green tea and chain
smoked Davidoff cigarettes during the March 1 interview.  He was also chain smoking in 2007 when he first met Qian
Weiqing, a senior partner of Beijing-based Dacheng Law Offices
who represented Wahaha in its legal battle with  Danone (BN) , the
lawyer said. Zong was embroiled in more than 30 lawsuits with
Danone, which accused him of selling Wahaha-branded juice and
tea outside of their partnership formed in 1997.  The billionaire had feared he might lose his company, Qian
said. “He didn’t know what the odds of winning were.”  Danone Buyout  Wahaha bought Danone out of their ventures in a 2009 deal
brokered by the Chinese and French governments. Danone had no
further comment, said Sabrina Schneider, a spokeswoman.  Wahaha benefited from Danone’s initial investment and
expertise, said Shang, the former Wahaha executive.  “If Wahaha had built the business by itself, it would
have been as slow as a rolling snowball and it may have caused
delays in capturing market opportunities.”  After working in the countryside for 15 years, Zong
returned to Hangzhou, Zhejiang’s capital, and moved from job to
job before borrowing money from relatives and friends to set up
a store. He also sold snacks and drinks while pedaling around
on a tricycle before going into beverage making in 1988.  “I started my business career as  China’s  poorest
chairman,” he said. “Making money to me means realizing the
value of life.”  -  Michael Wei . Editors: Frank Longid, Bret Okeson  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Michael Wei in Beijing at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  