-- 
China at 60% Risk of Banking Crisis, Fitch Gauge Signals

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-08T07:39:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/china-faces-60-risk-of-bank-crisis-by-2013-fitch-gauge-shows.html
China faces a 60 percent risk of a
banking crisis by mid-2013 in the aftermath of record lending
and surging property prices, according to a Fitch Ratings gauge.  Fitch sees the risk of “holes in bank balance sheets”
should a property bubble burst, Richard Fox, a London-based
senior director, said in a phone interview on March 4. The  risk
assessment  is from a macro-prudential monitor used by the
ratings company.  Chinese banks fueled record property-price gains by
extending a record 17.5 trillion yuan ($2.7 trillion) of loans
over 2009 and 2010 under the stimulus program that propelled the
nation through the financial crisis. Regulators’ efforts to
contain the risks for lenders have included stress tests for
declines in  house prices  and a crackdown on lending to local-
government financing vehicles.  China’s risk of a systemic crisis is based on the nation’s
MPI3 classification, the highest of three risk categories, in a
Fitch monitor begun in 2005. The indicator signaled crises in
Iceland and Ireland and has been tested back to the 1980s, Fox
said.  In contrast with Fitch’s concern, the  Hang Seng Finance
Index (HSF) , which includes five Chinese banks traded in Hong Kong,
advanced 1.5 percent as of 3:34 p.m. local time.  Depleted Capital  Fitch follows an International Monetary Fund definition
of a systemic financial crisis, Fox said. Such crises exhaust
“all or most of the aggregate banking system capital,” cause a
“large number of defaults” and “financial institutions and
corporations face great difficulties repaying contracts on
time,” according to a November 2008 IMF  working paper .  “We’re talking about systemic crises here, affecting most
of the major banks,” Fox said. “A crisis is something which
technically de-capitalizes the banking system.”  Sixty percent of emerging-market countries downgraded to
MPI3 face banking crises within three years, he said.  China 
entered that classification in June. The indicator’s failures
have included not sounding an alarm about the banking system in  Spain , he added.  Banking systems in emerging markets are vulnerable to
systemic stress when credit growth exceeds 15 percent annually
over two years with real property prices rising more than 5
percent, according to Fitch.  Wen’s Pledge  Credit growth in China averaged 18.6 percent annually over
2008 and 2009 as house prices jumped, according to the ratings
company. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  pledged more efforts to cool
the  property market  on March 5, telling lawmakers that
“exorbitant” increases in housing prices in some cities are a
top public concern.  The fallout from China’s lending spree may be bad loans
totaling $400 billion, according to Hong Kong-based advisory
firm Asianomics Ltd.  China is seeking to avoid a repeat of its last banking
crisis, when the government spent more than $650 billion over a
decade to bail out banks after years of state-directed lending.  Fitch’s concern contrasts with gains in banks’ profits and
capital adequacy ratios and declines in non-performing loan
ratios, according to data released by the China Banking
Regulatory Commission.  The industry’s “capitalization has been noticeably
strengthened throughout 2010, with capital ratios of major banks
being well supportive of their standalone credit profiles,”
Liao Qiang, a director of financial institutions ratings for
Standard and Poor’s in Beijing said today.  ‘Strong Liquidity’  “With reasonable loan loss reserves at present, good pre-
provisioning profitability and strong liquidity, Chinese banks
are likely to gradually absorb potential spikes in credit costs
caused by looming bad loans, particularly from China’s property
sector and local government financing platforms,” Qiang said.  Chinese banks listed in  Hong Kong  will likely report
“strong” 2010 earnings when they report at the end of the
month, BNP Paribas SA said in a report today.  In November, Moody’s Investors Service said that it had
“concerns over the intrinsic, stand-alone strength of China’s
banking system.” At the same time, the largest lenders weren’t
materially damaged by the global financial crisis and aren’t
likely to pose any significant contingent liability risk to the
government balance sheet, the ratings company said.  Absorbing Losses  “Furthermore, we expect that future credit losses --
arising from the surge in lending in 2009, from exposures to the
property market, from risky loans to local government financing
vehicles, and from off-balance sheet operations in the ‘shadow’
banking system -- will be mostly absorbed by the banks
themselves, either from capital, or from future earnings,”
Moody’s said in a statement.  To limit risks for banks, China has increased oversight of
lending to the local-government vehicles, which surged during
the nation’s two-year stimulus program. In a March 5 speech to
lawmakers, Wen pledged a “comprehensive audit” of local-
government debt, while the Ministry of Finance said separately
that “local governments face debt risks that can’t be
overlooked.”  Banks have also been told to assign a higher risk rating to
local-government loans.  The country’s “systemically important” lenders may be
subject to an overall capital adequacy ratio of as high as 14
percent when their credit growth is judged excessive, a person
with knowledge of the matter said on Jan. 28. Other lenders
would need to meet a 13 percent threshold, the person said. The
minimum ratio, used to gauge banks’ ability to withstand
financial stress, is currently 11.5 percent for big banks.  Lenders including China Minsheng Banking Corp. and  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (1288)  have announced plans to sell
more than 80 billion yuan ($12 billion) of shares and 70 billion
yuan of subordinated bonds this year.  -  Kevin Hamlin , with assistance from Zhang Dingmin. Editors:
Paul Panckhurst, Lily Nonomiya.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing on 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  