-- 
Chrysler Investing in Mexico Means Fiat May Add to Brazil Sales Leadership

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 
2011-03-08T13:14:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/chrysler-investing-in-mexico-means-fiat-may-add-to-brazil-sales-leadership.html
Chrysler Group LLC, having begun
production of the subcompact Fiat 500 in Mexico, is poised to
benefit from free-trade agreements that may help  Fiat SpA (F)  add to
its leadership in  Brazil .    Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both
automakers, celebrated the start of 500 production at Chrysler’s
Toluca, Mexico, assembly plant yesterday. He said another Fiat
vehicle may be made there and that Fiat commercial vehicles may
be assembled in Saltillo. Chrysler may build another factory to
make those trucks, said another executive.  While the Fiat 500 is being used to reintroduce the brand
to the U.S. after almost 30 years, factories in Mexico can also
supply Latin American markets and avoid import tariffs such as
Brazil’s 35 percent tax.  “Mexico is in an ideal position for production of this car
because of free trade agreements with neighbors to both the
north and the south,” Marchionne said during an event with
President Felipe Calderon, “because of the bridge between NAFTA
and Latin America.”  Chrysler, which is controlled by Turin, Italy-based Fiat,
plans to build more than 120,000 Fiat 500 cars at the Toluca
plant each year with more than 50,000 going to the U.S. and  Canada . The next largest market will be Brazil, where Fiat sold
1,200 of the Polish-made 500s last year, according to researcher
IHS Automotive.  The 2010 Fiat 500’s starting price in  Sao Paulo  is 59,360
reais ($35,856), according to Fiat’s website.  Prohibitive Tariffs  “At this time, this product cannot really be sold because
Brazil has duty tariffs” that are 35 percent, Joseph ChamaSrour, the president of Chrysler de Mexico SA, said
yesterday in an interview.  He expects the Mexican-made Fiat 500 will be able to be
priced lower in Brazil because of avoiding the tariffs, he said.
While the price in Brazil hasn’t been announced, the car’s price
in  Mexico  will be about 20 percent less than when it was
imported from Fiat’s Poland factory, he said.  More automakers are taking advantage of Mexico’s
relationship with Brazil. Mexico-made vehicles exported to
Brazil rose to 100,000 last year from less than 5,000 in 2005,
Lexington, Massachusetts-based Guido Vildozo, an industry
analyst with IHS Automotive, said in a telephone interview.
“Pretty much everyone is in the game,” he said.  Fiat, the top selling automaker in Brazil, sold 767,690
vehicles there last year, according to researcher J.D. Power and
Associates.  Marchionne wants to sell more than 1 million cars annually
by 2014 in Brazil and announced plans in December to invest
3 billion reais to build an additional factory there to boost
production. It’s part of a 10 billion-reais spending plan for
Brazil through 2014.  Growing Market  Brazil’s auto market is expected to grow to 5 million by
2019 from 3.3 million last year, said Stefan Mauerer, a Munich-
based principal at the  Boston Consulting Group  in a telephone
interview.  Chrysler last year said it would invest $550 million to
build the Fiat 500 at the Toluca plant and borrowed $400 million
from Mexican development banks as part of the effort.  The Toluca factory employs 2,493 hourly workers on two
shifts and also builds the  Dodge  Journey, a car-based sport-
utility vehicle to be sold in  Europe  as the Fiat Freemont,
according to Chrysler’s website.  While Chrysler has sold the Journey in Brazil, it plans to
build about 30,000 Freemonts for that market, ChamaSrour said in
an interview at the Detroit auto show in January.  Second Model  Marchionne, speaking to reporters yesterday in Mexico City,
said the automaker is looking at building a second Fiat model at
Chrysler’s Toluca plant. He didn’t say what the model would be,
and ChamaSrour said such a move wouldn’t come for three or four
years.  “We need to decide what we’re going to do with that
plant,” Marchionne said. “The likelihood is that we will bring
in an architecture that is more versatile and will give us an
opportunity to produce more than one top hat” or body style.
Nothing has been decided, he said.  Chrysler is also exploring the possibility of expanding its
commercial van business in North and South America using Fiat’s
vehicles, ChamaSrour said yesterday in an interview.  “That requires quite a large investment. It would require
a new plant,” he said.  While the Fiat Ducato is already built in Brazil, it won’t
meet emissions standards by 2013 and will require more
investment, ChamaSrour said.  “We see a lot of potential for this vehicle and for
developing a product lineup: not only the Ducato but the Doblo,
a smaller vehicle,” he said.  Investment Options  Chrysler may build another assembly plant in Saltillo,
where it has extra land on which to build, or in Veracruz,
Mexico, ChamaSrour said. The plant could also be used to build
Fiat’s Iveco commercial vehicles, he said. Or the Fiat-brand
work trucks could be made in Brazil for that market while
European-made vehicles are imported for  North America , he said.  “We are discussing this matter right now with the Mexican
government to see how they can support us,” he said.
“Incentives, loans and so forth.”  Chrysler’s Mexico operations and Fiat’s in Brazil are
pulling together business cases for each location to present to
Marchionne, he said.  “We’re talking days, maybe a couple of weeks” until a
decision, he said.  A choice between Saltillo or Veracruz “depends upon the
local incentives,” ChamaSrour said. “Whether we bring it to
Mexico will depend upon the federal incentives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Mexico City at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  