-- 
Coeur Defense’s Post-Lehman Bankruptcy Restored by French Court

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-08T16:47:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/coeur-defense-s-post-lehman-bankruptcy-restored-by-french-court.html
Coeur Defense,  Europe ’s largest
office complex which was purchased by  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  18 months before the bank’s insolvency, won a bid to
overturn a lower court’s decision to throw out its 2008
bankruptcy filing.  The Cour de Cassation,  France ’s highest appeals court, said
the lower tribunal erred in its 2010 ruling that the building
owner’s difficulties in renegotiating loan terms weren’t enough
to qualify it for creditor protection.  “The appeals court failed to appreciate the purpose of the
lawsuit,” the Cour de Cassation said in a decision published
today.  Lehman bought the complex for 2.11 billion euros ($2.9
billion), a record for the Paris market, in March 2007. Heart of
La Defense SAS, the vehicle Lehman had formed to buy it,
obtained creditor protection in November 2008. That was two
months after Lehman’s collapse, when HOLD and parent Dame
Luxembourg Sarl couldn’t reach a new hedging agreement on 1.6
billion euros of loans taken to fund the purchase.  Lehman had issued commercial mortgage-backed securities
against the purchase loans, called Windermere XII FCT bonds,
managed by Paris-based  EuroTitrisation , which made the earlier
appeal fighting the bankruptcy filing and opposed HOLD’s appeal
to the Cour de Cassation.  “EuroTitrisation will proceed with a thorough analysis of
these decisions and of their consequences and will assert the
interests of the creditor which it represents before the court
of appeal of referral,” in Versailles, near Paris, the group
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Coeur Defense, designed by Jean-Paul Viguier and completed
in 2001, is in the Paris financial district of La Defense. It
consists of two 180-meter (590-foot) towers and three other
buildings totaling 182,000 square meters (1.96 million square
feet). It was valued at 1.8 billion euros following Lehman’s
collapse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 