-- 
Colombia Says 22 of 23 Oil Workers Kidnapped in Vichada Yesterday Are Free

-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-03-08T15:53:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/colombia-says-22-of-23-talisman-contract-workers-freed-after-kidnapping.html
  Colombia  said 22 of 23 oil workers
kidnapped yesterday by guerrillas in the largest taking of
hostages in three years are free after a military dragnet in a
jungle area of the Andean nation.  One man who escaped provided information to soldiers about
the location of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, who
held the workers at gunpoint in the eastern province of  Vichada ,
near the Venezuelan border, Defense Minister Rodrigo Rivera said
today in comments broadcast by Bogota-based RCN Radio. One man
is still unaccounted for, he said.  “These guys are going into the mouth of the tiger,”  Andres Jimenez , head of international sales at Interbolsa SA,
Colombia’s largest brokerage, said in a telephone interview from
Medellin. “It’s a territory that’s impossible to control. It’s
a no man’s land.”  President Juan Manuel Santos pledged when taking office in
August to crack down on rebel groups as he seeks to draw
investment in oil wells and mining in the nation where
billionaire Carlos Slim’s Grupo Carso SAB and Eike Batista’s OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA plan investments.    Oil companies  will probably increase security in response
to the kidnappings, Jimenez said.  The men work for a contracting company, called South
American Exploration, hired by Calgary-based  Talisman Energy
Inc. (TLM) , Talisman spokesman Tomas Rueda told RCN yesterday.  Companies including Talisman and state-run  Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL)  won
rights last year to explore and produce oil in areas of the
nation once considered too risky because of guerrilla presence.
The FARC, as the Revolutionary Armed Force of Colombia is known,
is Latin America’s oldest guerrilla group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  