-- 
Colombia's ETB Advances on Bets That Bogota Will Sell Telephone Company

-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 
2011-03-08T21:31:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/colombia-s-etb-advances-on-bets-that-bogota-will-sell-telephone-company.html
  Empresa de Telecomunicaciones de
Bogota (ETB)  SA rose to the highest level in two weeks on speculation
that Bogota will decide to sell the company at a shareholder
meeting later this month.  The state-run phone company serving  Colombia ’s capital
jumped 1.8 percent to 581 pesos, the highest since Feb. 22.  ETB’s weak financial results and pressure from the board to
sell the company may lead to a sale decision at the March 22
meeting, Bogota-based newspaper La Republica reported, citing an
unidentified source familiar with the process.  “The company didn’t say what will be discussed in the
investor meeting, but the privatization of the company is really
the most important issue right now,” said Andres Otalora, an
equity analyst at Cia. de Profesionales de Bolsa in Bogota.
“It’s very likely that the sale will be defined then and
investors are betting the company will finally be sold.”  The company’s board recommended that Bogota, ETB’s
controlling shareholder, seek a buyer because “ETB is not able
to generate necessary funds to increase its future value,”
according to a statement posted on the securities regulator’s
website on Dec. 15.  ETB disclosed the March 22 meeting in a statement on Feb.
22, without saying what will be discussed. Juan David Pena, a
spokesman for ETB, said today the company wouldn’t provide
further information. Several calls to the city’s press office
weren’t returned.  Earlier Sale Effort  In September, ETB said it was unable to lure bidders to
acquire a stake in the company. Investors are now speculating
that the company will sell a controlling share in ETB, making
the transaction more attractive, said Otalora.  Telefonos de Mexico SAB, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , and  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  may be interested in ETB,
Otalora said.  ETB’s net profit declined 40 percent to 121.7 billion pesos
($64.4 million) in 2010 from a year earlier. The shares are down
15 percent this year through yesterday and fell 42 percent in
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 Papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  