-- 
Commerzbank Fails to Win Dismissal of Bankers' U.K. Bonus Suit

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-03-08T10:15:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/commerzbank-fails-to-win-dismissal-of-bankers-u-k-bonus-suit.html
  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  lost a bid to dismiss
a lawsuit by more than 100 current and former bankers at its
Dresdner Kleinwort unit, in the largest U.K. bonus dispute
stemming from the financial crisis.  The Court of Appeal in  London  also ruled that the bankers,
who are seeking as much as 50 million euros ($67 million), can
use evidence from before a December 2008 letter to staff of the
investment bank regarding their bonuses.  A lower court had ruled in May that the evidence should be
dismissed. It includes a statement made in August 2008 that
Allianz SE, the insurer that sold Dresdner to Commerzbank, had
earmarked about 400 million euros for bonuses and retention
payments.  Lawyers for Commerzbank have said the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and its affect on the financial markets
made it impractical for the bank to pay what it considered to be
discretionary bonuses. The bankers say they were paid a 10th of
what they were owed in a contract with Dresdner before it was
acquired by Commerzbank.  “While we are disappointed with the court’s resolution to
require more evidence for a decision on this matter, Commerzbank
as the new owner of  Dresdner Bank  intends to defend these claims
vigorously,” the German bank said in an e-mailed statement. “We
are confident that we will demonstrate at a full trial that
Dresdner Bank was entitled to reduce its employees’ 2008
discretionary bonuses.”  The case is The Parties Named in Schedule A v. Dresdner
Kleinwort Ltd. & anr, U.K. Court of Appeal, A2/2010/1599.  To contact the reporters on the story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;  James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 