-- 
Confidence at U.S. Small Companies Climbs to Highest Level in Three Years

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-03-08T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/confidence-at-u-s-small-companies-climbs-to-highest-level-in-three-years.html
Confidence among U.S. small
companies rose in February to the highest level in three years
as hiring and sales expectations increased, a survey showed.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
index climbed to 94.5, the highest since the recession began in
December 2007, the Washington-based group said today in a
statement. The reading compares with the average 100.7 during
the previous expansion that started in November 2001.  Hiring plans rose to the second-highest level since
September 2008, a sign employment may pick up in coming months.
At the same time, earnings expectations remained negative, and
fewer businesses said it was a good time to expand.  “The future is looking brighter for a few more small-
business owners,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief
economist, said in the statement. Still, he said, “this is not
a reading that characterizes a strongly rebounding economy.”  Figures on employment turned more optimistic. Small
businesses with plans to add to payrolls rose 2 points to a net
5 percent. A net 15 percent of firms in the February survey said
they were having trouble filling job openings, the highest level
since September 2008.  “Employment in the small-business space is increasing
slowly,” Kiran Patel, general manager at the small business
group at Intuit Inc., which markets software solutions for
small- and medium-sized firms, told a teleconference on March 2.
“Things are a lot better today than they were 18 months ago,
but we are far from being at the place where we were before the
deep recession.”  Sales Outlook  The net percent of small business owners projecting higher
sales, adjusted for inflation, rose 1 point to 14 percent, the
highest level since September 2007.  The gauge of expectations for better business conditions
six months from now fell 1 percentage point to a net 9 percent.
An index of whether firms think this is a good time to expand
declined by 1 point to 7 percent.  A measure of trends in earnings increased 1 point to minus
27 percent, today’s report showed. Those expecting credit
conditions to ease held at a minus 10 percent.  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
giving a positive response and adjusting the results for
seasonal variations.  Plans for  capital investment  over the next few months held
at a net 22 percent, while a net 2 percent of small business
owners said their inventories were too low, up from zero in the
prior month, signaling renewed stockpiling.  Price Cutting Ends  February’s report also signaled the “end of a long period
of price cutting,” the statement said, without providing
specific numbers. “This signals a return in the months ahead to
increases in average prices as supply adjustments restore
pricing power.”  The NFIB report was based on 774 survey responses through
the month of February. Small businesses represent more than 99
percent of all U.S. employers and have created 65 percent of new
jobs in the past 17 years, according to the U.S. Small Business
Administration. A small business is defined as an independent
enterprise employing up to 500 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 