-- 
Congo Arrests More Than 100 People After Attack on President Kabila's Home

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-03-08T09:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/congo-arrests-more-than-100-people-after-attack-on-president-kabila-s-home.html
  Democratic Republic of Congo 
authorities presented to reporters more than 100 people
allegedly involved in a Feb. 27 attack on President Joseph Kabila’s residence and a military camp in Kinshasa, the capital.  The prisoners, trucked into a police station parking lot,
sat beside an array of weapons allegedly used in the assault
that left 11 attackers and eight soldiers dead, police spokesman
Colonel Lole Onyondo said at a media briefing yesterday.
Journalists weren’t allowed to speak to the people in custody.
Several of those arrested protested their innocence, saying they
were merchants who had been rounded up by the police. Onyondo
wouldn’t answer questions after reading a statement.  The police showed more than two dozen machetes, 13 AK-47s,
two machine guns and four rocket launchers allegedly used in the
assaults. There were also two vehicles the attackers had
allegedly carjacked, two screwdrivers and a caulking gun.  Congo’s second presidential election since the end of
almost a decade of war is scheduled for November. Kabila, 39,
became the Central African country’s leader in 2001 when his
father, Laurent Desire Kabila, was assassinated. The younger
Kabila led the country through a post-war transitional
government from 2003 to 2006, when he was elected president.  Men armed with machetes, guns and amulets attacked Kabila’s
residence on Feb. 27 and were repelled by the presidential guard
during a 20-minute gunfight, Communications Minister Lambert Mende said March 1. Kabila wasn’t at home at the time, he said.  Coup d’Etat  Later that day, another group approached a nearby military
camp on motorcycles and in cars, shooting at the gates before
fleeing, Mende said. Hours after the attacks, Mende appeared on
national television and described the assaults as an attempted
coup d’etat. Two days later, he said the men had made no
political demands and it was not an attempted coup.  In total, 126 people have been held in connection with the
attacks, which were allegedly committed by people from outside
Kinshasa with help from supporters inside the city, according to
Onyondo. He didn’t provide more details.  Congo’s security forces stopped the attackers from
continuing on to other targets, including the airport and the
national television station, Onyondo said.  Congo is  Africa ’s largest producer of tin ore and has about
4 percent of the world’s copper and a third of its cobalt
resources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 