-- 
Convertible Rally Enters Seventh Month as Supply Dwindles: Credit Markets

-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-03-08T03:02:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/convertible-rally-enters-seventh-month-as-supply-dwindles-credit-markets.html
Convertible bonds are in the midst
of their longest rally since September 2009 as gains in equities
prompt investors to snap up securities in a market that’s shrunk
by 24 percent in two years.  The BarCap U.S. Convertibles Composite Total Return Index
rose 2.58 percent in February, capping a six-month streak of
increases that pushed it up 19.5 percent, reaching a record
210.6 on Feb. 17. The face value of outstanding equity-linked
notes in the U.S., the biggest market, fell to $224.7 billion as
of March 2 from $294.3 billion in December 2008,  Barclays
Capital  data show.  A 20 percent jump in main U.S. and global equity markets in
the past six months makes convertible bonds more attractive for
investors because they have the option of being exchanged for
stock when a company’s share price rises to a preset level. At
the same time issuers are finding cheaper ways of raising money,
with relative yields on  junk bonds  falling 29 percent since
August, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “Companies can borrow pretty cheaply in the straight
market already, so why give away your stock?” said Tom Wills,
who manages about $1.5 billion in equity-linked bonds at Morgan
Stanley & Co. International in London. Investors see stocks as
“interesting but uncertain, so they like the option in
convertibles,” he said.  Bondholders Squeezed    Ingenico (ING)  SA, the biggest maker of point-of-sale terminals,
was able to extract better terms from investors than it
originally proposed on 250 million euros ($349.3 million) of
convertible bonds issued on March 3 and due in January 2017.  Neuilly-sur-Seine, France-based Ingenico set the conversion
premium at 40 percent, above an earlier range of 30 percent to
35 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The coupon was 2.75
percent, at the low end of the marketing range.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to own company bonds worldwide instead of similar-
maturity government debt was unchanged at 149 basis points, or
1.49 percentage points, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate Index. Yields averaged
4.003 percent.  DirecTV sold $4 billion of debt in the second-biggest bond
sale this year by a non-financial borrower. Put volume, or
bearish bets, on an exchange-traded fund tracking high-yield
bonds rose to its highest level since November after a single
trade with a strike price 3.9 percent below yesterday’s close.
Toys “R” Us Inc. proposed terms on $1.1 billion of loans it’s
seeking to refinance debt and reduce borrowing costs.  Citigroup, Morgan Stanley  Bonds from Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley, both of  New
York , were tied for the most actively traded U.S. corporate
securities by dealers, each with 87 trades of $1 million or
more, according to Trace, the bond price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The cost of protecting U.S. corporate bonds from default
climbed. The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or
to speculate on creditworthiness, gained 0.6 basis point to a
mid-price of 84.3 basis points as of 5:39 p.m. in New York,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd. In  London ,
the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with investment-
grade ratings climbed 2.3 to 102.  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  High-Yield ETF  Proceeds from DirecTV’s offering of 5-, 10- and 30-year
senior unsecured bonds may be used for share repurchases, the El
Segundo, California-based company said yesterday in a regulatory
filing. The $1 billion of 6.375 percent bonds due in March 2041
yield 175 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
Bloomberg data show. In its last offering in August, DirecTV
sold $1.25 billion of 30-year, 6 percent notes at a spread of
210 basis points.  An investor bought a block of 4,000 April $39 puts to sell
the  SPDR Barclays Capital High Yield Bond ETF (JNK)  for 15 cents each
at 11:35 a.m. in New York, according to a report from options
strategists at Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP in  Bala Cynwyd ,  Pennsylvania , and data compiled by Bloomberg.  Almost 4,600 puts changed hands yesterday, more than 10
times the four-week average and 228 times the number of calls to
buy. The April $39 puts were the most-active contracts and
accounted for more than nine-tenths of all options volume. The
ETF, which rose 0.2 percent to $40.57 yesterday, has an average
of 439 puts and 99 calls trading each day. The ETF gained 3.4
percent in the past year.  Leveraged Loans  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
rose 0.05 cent to 95.88 cents on the dollar, after three days of
declines. The index, which tracks the 100 largest dollar-
denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has fallen from 96.48
cents on Feb. 14, which was the highest since November 2007.
High-yield, high-risk bonds and leveraged loans are rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Toys “R” Us, bought by KKR & Co., Bain Capital LLC and
Vornado Realty Trust in 2005, may propose to pay an interest
rate 300 basis points to 325 basis points more than the London
interbank offered rate, according to people familiar with the
matter, who declined to be identified because the terms are
private. Libor, the rate banks charge to lend to each other, may
have a 1.25 percent to 1.5 percent floor. The Wayne, New Jersey-
based company is the world’s biggest toy retailer.  The Barclays convertible index rallied 19.5 percent in the
six months ended in February, compared with a loss of 0.66
percent for Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market
Corporate Index and a gain of 26.5 percent for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. That’s the longest streak since the index rose
for seven straight months ended in September 2009.  ‘Sweet Spot’  Convertibles are in a “sweet spot,” said Justin Kass, a
money manager who helps oversee almost $4 billion of the debt at
Allianz Global Investors Capital in  San Diego . He estimates the
securities capture as much as 80 percent of the gains in stocks
and suffer only 40 percent to 50 percent of losses.  “You’re getting an asymmetric risk-reward blend,” Kass
said. “On the up days you’re moving higher and on the down days
you have a lot more damped volatility in regard to the
underlying equity. That is really the sweet spot of the
convertible.”  In return for being able to swap into stock, buyers of
equity-linked securities accept a lower coupon than they would
for a bond without that option. When stocks gain and volatility
is high, the chance of a share hitting the strike price rises
and the options become more valuable.  Old Republic    Old Republic International Corp. (ORI) , a Chicago-based insurance
holding company, sold $500 million of 3.75 percent convertible
senior notes on March 3 that are due in 2018. The coupon
compares with an average of about 5.89 percent for investment-
grade finance company bonds due in five to seven years,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.  The BarCap U.S. convertibles index has fallen from its peak
on Feb. 17 as stocks declined amid soaring oil prices and
protests in the Middle East and North Africa. The bond index has
dropped 0.06 percent this month to 208.46 as of March 4,
compared with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 0.46 percent
decline in the period.  On average, more than $90 billion of convertibles expire
each year worldwide, according to Nomura International Plc. That
compares with average sales in the three years through end-2010
of about $85 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales Recover  Sales of new convertibles are starting to recover. In the
U.S., borrowers have raised $8.12 billion from the securities,
excluding self-led deals, up from $2.7 billion in the same
period last year and $780 million from Jan. 1 to March 7, 2009,
Bloomberg data show. Global sales are $14 billion this year,
compared with $13.26 billion in 2010 and $1.8 billion in the
same period of 2009.  The recent increase in convertible sales is unlikely to
continue as the cost of raising money in other markets
diminishes, according to Diana Monteith of Loomis Sayles & Co.  “I don’t think we’re going to see massive issuance for a
while,” said Monteith, a money manager in  Boston . “There’s
been a pullback in stocks because of the situation in the oil
market and we’re not going to see a huge pick-up in the next few
months.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold junk bonds in the
U.S. rather than benchmark government debt fell to 469 basis
points as of March 4 from 662 basis points on Sept. 3, according
to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High-Yield Master II
Index.  Sinopec Deal  Spreads on bonds without equity-conversion options have
tightened as the  Federal Reserve  holds interest rates at record
lows to stimulate economic growth after the deepest financial
crisis since the Great Depression. The Fed has kept its main
overnight lending rate between banks at 0.25 percent since
December 2008.  In  China , where rates have risen three times since mid-
October,  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , known as Sinopec,
sold the world’s biggest convertible bond of this year, issuing
23 billion yuan ($3.5 billion) in six-year notes.  “Rates are still low,” said Luke Olsen, a London-based
analyst at Barclays Capital. “Even so, if equity valuations
rise as we expect, the pendulum should swing further toward
convertibles issuance from straight debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  