-- 
Copper, Tin, Nickel Drop as Inflation May Prompt Interest Rate Increases

-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 
2011-03-08T07:12:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/copper-lead-nickel-drop-on-concern-sustained-oil-advance-may-slow-growth.html
Copper, zinc, nickel and tin dropped
on concern rising inflation will lead  China  and the European
Union to tighten monetary policy as crude oil traded above $100.  Three-month-delivery copper dropped 0.8 percent to $9,420 a
metric ton on the London Metal Exchange at 2:50 p.m. in  Singapore , extending a 4 percent slump yesterday. Zinc fell 1.2
percent, nickel lost 2.1 percent and tin dropped 2.4 percent. In  Shanghai , zinc plunged as much as 5.5 percent.  Oil closed at a 29-month high in  New York  yesterday on
concern Libyan violence would crimp Middle Eastern supplies.
Government warplanes repeatedly bombed rebel positions near the
oil hub of Ras Lanuf, adding urgency to discussions among U.S.
and allied governments about imposing a no-fly zone.  “This kind of volatility is going to continue until the
market has some clear sight on both oil-price elevation and on
how long the impact of this oil price is going to be,”  Peter Richardson , chief metals economist at Morgan Stanley in  Melbourne , said by phone today. “The market believes there will
be a negative impact on growth from a period of sustained oil
prices,” he said.  Central banks are focusing more on inflation as the world
economy gathers strength and food and oil prices surge. The
People’s Bank of China raised reserve requirements twice this
year and increased lending and deposit rates once as part of the
government’s efforts to rein in rising home and food prices.  Interest Rates    Thailand  and South Korea will raise key interest rates this
week by a quarter of a percentage point, median estimates in
Bloomberg News surveys of economists show. The People’s Bank of
China raised  interest rates  three times since October and
Premier Wen Jiabao has targeted inflation as the top priority.  A report today may show a rebound in German factory orders
as European Central Bank policy makers consider raising interest
rates to combat inflation.  “It was another shock about oil, causing growth
expectations to be reduced,” said Dominic Schnider, director
for wealth management research at UBS in Singapore. “At the end
of the day, copper is the bellwether of the economy.”  Stockpiles tracked by exchanges in London, New York and
Shanghai have climbed 16 percent this year to 660,456 tons as of
yesterday, the highest level since July, according to Bloomberg
data. Copper inventories in  South Korea , the nearest LME-
registered warehouse location to China, more than doubled this
year to 102,225 tons.  May-delivery zinc in Shanghai fell 4.1 percent to 18,080
yuan a ton. Copper dropped as much as 5.3 percent to 70,260 yuan
a ton and ended at 71,070 yuan.  Imports by China last month probably fell 15 percent from
January, and the recovery in demand may be delayed until late
March,  Dan Smith , a Standard Chartered Bank analyst, said in a
report. Shipments probably fell to 210,000 tons, partly because
of the Lunar New Year holiday and higher prices, he said.  Aluminum was little changed at $2,556 a ton in London,
while zinc dropped 0.9 percent to $2,348 a ton. Lead declined
1.2 percent to $2,540 a ton, nickel fell 2.2 percent to $26,876
a ton and tin slumped 2.4 percent to $30,000 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  London  at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  