-- 
Crude Oil Declines as OPEC Discusses Holding Emergency Meeting on Output

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-03-08T21:52:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/crude-oil-futures-fluctuates-amid-opec-output-discussions-libyan-fighting.html
Crude oil fell from a 29-month high
in  New York  as members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries discussed whether to hold a special meeting.  Crude slipped 0.4 percent after  Kuwait ’s oil minister said
OPEC members are considering whether to convene an “urgent
meeting.” Futures trimmed losses as opponents of Libyan leader
Muammar Qaddafi plan to recapture a town, Bin Jawad, and after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America Merrill Lynch
raised oil-price forecasts.  “OPEC may schedule a meeting to discuss increasing
production,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy
& Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “The OPEC
news and signals that the U.S. may release some strategic
reserves is making some investors think twice about being
long.”  Crude oil for April delivery dropped 42 cents to settle at
$105.02 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract ended yesterday at $105.44, the highest settlement
since Sept. 26, 2008. Futures are up 28 percent from a year ago.  Prices declined from the settlement after the  American
Petroleum Institute  reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles rose 3.82 million barrels to 348.5 million. April oil
fell 77 cents, or 0.7 percent, to $104.68 a barrel in electronic
trading at 4:34 p.m.  Brent crude oil for April settlement slipped $1.98, or 1.7
percent, to end the session at $113.06 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  Narrowing Spread  The premium of Brent to West Texas Intermediate, the grade
traded in New York, surged to a record $19.54 on Feb. 21 as
unrest spread in the Middle East and North Africa and stockpiles
climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the WTI delivery point. The
premium narrowed to $8.04 today, the least since Jan. 20.  “The spread has become so big that it’s attracted value
players,” said  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron Hanover Inc.
in New Canaan,  Connecticut , a trading-advisory company.
“Widening the spread became a high-stakes poker game among a
few players, and it now appears to be coming to an end.”  Kuwait’s oil minister told reporters in Kuwait City today
that OPEC Secretary General Abdalla El-Badri is contacting
members to see whether a meeting on production levels is needed.  “I’ve talked to Abdalla El-Badri in this regard and he is
calling everybody and making a consensus on whether we’ll need
an OPEC meeting, an urgent meeting,” Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah
al-Sabah said. “We have to find out at the meeting whether
there is a need for an increase or not.”  Libyan Turmoil  Violence in Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest crude producer,
has cut output by as much as 1 million barrels a day, according
to the  International Energy Agency . The North African country
pumped 1.39 million barrels a day in February, down from 1.59
million the previous month, according to Bloomberg estimates.  “The question now is how much geopolitical risk premium is
appropriate,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York. “Prices have risen so much that we
need an ongoing stream of frightening news to keep the market
moving higher.”  Vienna-based researcher JBC Energy GmbH estimated Libya
accounts for 8.8 percents of total global production of light,
sweet crude, or crude oil with low density and sulfur content.
This type of crude yields more of more lucrative fuels such as
gasoline and diesel when processed.  Some OPEC members and producers outside the group have made
up for the reduction in crude shipments from  Libya , Qatari
Energy Minister Mohammed Saleh al Sada said today.  ‘Hardly Any Effect’  “There was hardly any effect” on supply because of the
Libyan unrest, he said at a conference in Doha.  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt 
and there have been protests in countries including Iran, Yemen
and Oman. In  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer, websites
have called for a nationwide “Day of Rage” on March 11 and
March 20, according to  Human Rights Watch .  “The big news is Libya, at least until Friday,” Beutel
said. “Come Friday, all eyes will be on the Day of Rage in
Saudi Arabia.”  The Obama administration will consider using the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve if rising oil prices caused by turmoil in the
Middle East and North Africa threaten the  U.S. economy , White
House Chief of Staff William Daley said on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” program on March 6.  Total SA Chief Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie
said there is “no reason” to tap the reserve and that to do so
“is to send the message that we are scared.” He spoke at
CERAWeek, a Houston conference put on by IHS Cambridge Energy
Research Associates.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs raised its second-quarter outlook for  Brent
crude  by $4.50 to $105 a barrel, citing estimates that spare
capacity in OPEC has dropped below 2 million barrels a day,
according to a report dated yesterday.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch increased its Brent crude
price forecast for this year to $108 a barrel from $88 and for
next year to $95 a barrel from $85, in a note today.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 861,561
contracts as of 4:31 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 902,351
contracts yesterday, 13 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.58 million contracts, the
highest since July 16, 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  