-- 
Cuomo Picking Bress to Extract New York Union Cuts Recalls Father's Battle

-- B y   M i c h a e l   Q u i n t
-- 
2011-03-08T05:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/cuomo-picking-bress-to-extract-new-york-union-cuts-recalls-father-s-battle.html
Joseph Bress drew thousands of
protesters to the New York Capitol when he led talks with unions
under Governor  Mario Cuomo  in the 1990s. Now, Cuomo’s son,
Andrew, is turning to the same negotiator to help wring $450
million from state employees to close a $10 billion budget gap.  As head of labor relations for Amtrak, the U.S. passenger
railroad, Bress represented management during an eight-year
 impasse  with the rail unions. It took a presidential panel to
end the standoff in 2008 by recommending the raises workers
sought.  “Bress represents the epitome of bad-faith bargaining, and
I fear that New York state and its workers are in for a period
of prolonged animosity and stalemate,” said Jed Dodd, who sat
across the table from Bress as general chairman of the
Philadelphia-based  union  representing  Amtrak  track workers.  After promising a wage freeze in his election campaign last
year, Governor Andrew Cuomo, 53, said Feb. 1 he would dismiss
as many as 9,800 workers if there’s no agreement to produce
the labor savings he wants in his $132.9 billion budget. More 
than 90 percent of the state’s 196,000 employees are unionized.  Public unions are under attack across the U.S. as state and
local governments look to close $125 billion in budget deficits
by cutting workers or their benefits. Governors  Scott Walker  of
Wisconsin and John Kasich of  Ohio , both Republicans, want to go
beyond reducing labor costs by curtailing workers’ rights to
collective bargaining, actions that unions say would be their
death knell.  New Duo  Contracts with most  New York  unions expire April 1. Cuomo,
a Democrat, on March 2 named Bress, 66, and Todd Snyder, a
restructuring expert at Rothschild Inc. who represented the  U.S.
Treasury  during the General Motors Co. bailout, to continue
talks the governor has started with union leaders.  Snyder, 48, has worked on dozens of corporate
restructurings. As a financial adviser to  United Airlines  in
2005, he said the company needed to cut workers’ pay and
benefits to become profitable, attract lenders and emerge from
bankruptcy.  Snyder is working free, and compensation for Bress is to be
determined, said  Josh Vlasto , a spokesman for Cuomo.  Attempts to reach Bress by telephone were unsuccessful at
his Washington phone number and at the District of Columbia
Retirement Board, where he is a trustee. Vlasto didn’t respond
to requests to speak with Bress. Snyder didn’t respond to
messages left at his New York office.  Just a Messenger  “The question is whether  Andrew Cuomo  sticks to his guns
or folds,” said Jeffrey Stonecash, a political science
professor at  Syracuse University  in central New York. Bress’s
history doesn’t matter so much because he’s “a messenger with
an understanding of what the governor is trying to achieve and
that his job is to make it happen.”  Cuomo has responded to organized labor’s complaints about
hiring high-paid consultants instead of unionized workers by
 ordering  on March 2 that state agencies reduce consultant
contracts by 10 percent before renewal.  The Amtrak  negotiations  still have some rail union
officials miffed over their length and what they say was Bress’s
penchant for avoiding the negotiating table. They say that the
passenger unions got the same settlement as workers at freight
carriers, as was the case in previous years. The agreement
included retroactive pay increases.  ‘Still Rankles’  “There was a pettiness about him that still rankles,”
Dodd said, referring to disciplinary actions, later overturned,
against workers on a picket line. Amtrak negotiators’ said its
chronic losses meant they shouldn’t pay as much as profitable
freight railroads, “ignoring the fact that there’s no
profitable passenger railroad in the world.”  Officials at New York’s two largest public-employee unions
aren’t saying much publicly about Cuomo’s negotiators before
formal talks  begin  March 21.  “We’ve had our ups and downs with Bress,” said Stephen
Madarasz, a spokesman for the  Civil Service Employees
Associaton , which represents 68,000 state workers, the most of
any union. The negotiations in the early 1990s led to threats of
firings, lawsuits opposing delays in state paychecks and a rally
of 20,000 workers at the Capitol in  Albany  and nearby governor’s
residence, he said.  “It was a very contentious negotiation,” he said.  This year, union rallies in Albany to oppose Cuomo’s budget
cuts and urge extension of higher tax rates due to expire Dec.
31 have attracted crowds of 200 or fewer.  Knows the Workforce  The agreements eventually struck with unions in 1992 and
1993 didn’t include any raise for the period since 1991 when the
contracts expired. The unions dropped lawsuits opposing
deferrals in workers’ pay until they leave service, Madarasz
said. Some workers were without a contract for two years.  “At the end of the day, he conducted himself
professionally,” Madarasz said. “One benefit is that he knows
the state workforce and already understands the history and
reasons behind the contracts.”  Darcy Wells, a spokeswoman for the  Public Employees
Federation , the state’s second-largest union, with about 50,000
workers, said, “We’ll work with whoever we have to work with.”
She declined to describe earlier negotiations with Bress, saying
“the situation of the state has certainly changed.”  At the end of 2010, former Governor  David Paterson 
dismissed about 900 workers after unions refused a plan to
furlough workers, delay pay or sacrifice any of the 4 percent
pay increase that began April 1 of that year. About 130,000
workers are directly under the governor’s control.  Labor Savings  Labor savings sought by Cuomo may come from increasing
workers’ share of health-care costs, freezing automatic pay
increases based on longevity and changing rules for overtime,
Howard Glaser, an adviser to the governor and director of state
operations, said at a March 3 legislative hearing in Albany.  If there is no agreement with unions, worker dismissals
could begin soon after the April 1 start of the fiscal year, he
said. Changing health benefits could produce savings that exceed
New York’s goal by a third, Glaser said.  “The state’s fiscal situation requires new thinking about
how to reduce costs while maintaining service,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Quint in Albany, New York, at 
 mquint@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  