-- 
Sprint, Deutsche Telekom Said to Discuss T-Mobile USA Deal

-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-03-08T21:56:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/deutsche-telekom-is-said-to-discuss-sale-of-t-mobile-usa-to-sprint-nextel.html
  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  has held talks
to sell its  T-Mobile USA  unit to  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  in exchange
for a major stake in the combined entity, said people with
knowledge of the matter.  Talks have been on and off, and a deal may not be reached,
said the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because
the talks are private. The companies haven’t been able to agree
on the valuation of T-Mobile USA, which reported a drop in
profit in the fourth quarter, the people said. Sprint and
Deutsche Telekom shares jumped.  A merger of Sprint and T-Mobile USA would combine the
third- and fourth-largest U.S. wireless providers behind  Verizon
Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  T-Mobile USA may be worth $15 billion to
$20 billion, according to Michael Kovacocy, an analyst at
Evolution Securities in  London . Sprint’s market value was $13.6
billion as of yesterday’s close.  Deutsche Telekom may be disappointed in the price an
acquirer is willing to offer, Kovacocy said in an interview.
Even though the company may expect about $25 billion based on
the unit’s earnings, buyers may want to pay less because of the
customer losses, he said.  “It’s selling from a weak position in the marketplace,”
said Kovacocy, who doesn’t own shares in either company. “The
operations could fetch well south of $20 billion, well below
what DTE would look for.”  Sprint added 22 cents, or 4.9 percent, to $4.70 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading at 4 p.m. Deutsche Telekom
closed 4 percent higher at 10.01 euros in  Frankfurt , the biggest
increase in almost a year.  Customer Losses  A tie-up would allow Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom,  Europe ’s
largest phone company, to keep a stake in one of its biggest
markets while making it easier to finance investments for a
faster next-generation network.  “In general, all options are open in the U.S. -- the sale
of the whole business or of parts,” Deutsche Telekom Chief
Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges said in an e-mail today. He
said the company could also find a partner, sell shares in the
market or form a network agreement.    Bill White , a spokesman for  Overland Park , Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment.  Contracts protecting against a Sprint default for five
years dropped to the lowest since October, according to data
provider CMA. The contracts declined 36.9 basis points to 303.1
basis points. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. The contracts decline as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Bonds Rise  The company’s $2.5 billion of 6.875 percent notes due in
2028 rose 4.688 cents to 93.938 cents on the dollar as of 3:52
p.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  T-Mobile, which accounts for about a quarter of Deutsche
Telekom’s sales, has lost customers at an accelerated rate as it
trailed rivals in building out a third-generation mobile network
and missed out on being able to sell Apple Inc.’s iPhone. About
56,000 customers abandoned T-Mobile USA last year, while Sprint,
AT&T and Verizon Wireless all boosted their counts.  Talks have included discussion of Deutsche Telekom owning
about 50 percent of a combined T-Mobile USA-Sprint, one person
said. Sprint had revenue of about $32.6 billion in 2010, while
T-Mobile USA recorded revenue of $21.4 billion.  ‘Flexibly Positioned’  T-Mobile USA is also discussing buying wireless spectrum
from  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  as an alternative to a merger with Sprint,
two people said. Deutsche Telekom’s Hoettges said last month
that buying U.S. wireless spectrum from Clearwire is only one
option for the German phone company. He ruled out an outright
sale of T-Mobile in the U.S.  “We’re flexibly positioned,” Hoettges said today, adding
that Deutsche Telekom is working on several options. “We’re not
under pressure. We want the best solution.”  Susan Johnston, a Clearwire spokeswoman, didn’t return a
call for comment. Sprint is the majority owner of Kirkland,
Washington-based Clearwire.  Sprint is also in talks with LightSquared Inc., a wireless
startup founded by billionaire  Philip Falcone  and backed by his
Harbinger Capital Partners hedge fund, three people familiar
with the talks said last month. LightSquared, which is seeking
to sell 4G capacity in the U.S., may strike a deal to use
Sprint’s cell sites and equipment to build out its network.  Sprint said in December it is going to spend as much as $5
billion over the coming three to five years to upgrade its
network to allow it to combine the disparate spectrum bands it
uses onto a single type of base station.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is advising Sprint, Morgan Stanley
is working with Deutsche Telekom, and Deutsche Bank AG is
advising Clearwire, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  