-- 
Dighton Capital Chief Gurary Pleads Guilty in Tax Case

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-03-09T00:00:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/dighton-capital-chief-gurary-pleads-guilty-to-hiding-swiss-bank-accounts.html
Edward Gurary, the chief executive
officer of Dighton Capital Management, pleaded guilty to hiding
Swiss bank accounts from U.S. tax authorities and is cooperating
in a Justice Department probe of  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   Gurary, 45, admitted in federal court today in Cleveland
that he failed to tell the Internal Revenue Service about his
accounts at  UBS AG (UBSN) , the largest Swiss bank, and Credit Suisse,
the second-largest. A prosecution and defense lawyer said Gurary
is helping prosecutors investigate Credit Suisse.  “He is cooperating and has revealed that he had a foreign
bank account at Credit Suisse from 2002 to 2009 with significant
funds in it,” Richard Rolwing, a Justice Department trial
attorney, said in a telephone interview after the hearing.  Four bankers who worked at Credit Suisse were charged on
Feb. 24 with conspiring to help clients in the U.S. evade taxes
through secret bank accounts. A Credit Suisse banker also has
been charged with helping U.S. clients hide as much as
$500 million in assets from the IRS when he worked at UBS.  Credit Suisse spokesman David Walker declined comment.  Dighton manages $230 million in assets, according to its
 website . Gurary, a native of Ukraine and a U.S. citizen, was
arrested Jan. 25 when he flew into  Detroit  from  Switzerland ,
where he lives, according to Rolwing. He had lived outside of
Cleveland for several years before moving last year to
Switzerland, according to the prosecutor.  “He accepted full and complete responsibility for his
conduct,” Frederick Widen, Gurary’s attorney, said in a phone
interview. “This was a totally personal matter and had nothing
to do with Dighton.”  Bahamian Entity  Gurary admitted that from 2002 through 2008, he controlled
a UBS account in the name of a Bahamian entity called Demko Ltd.
that held as much as $947,000.  He also admitted that he failed to file Reports of Foreign
Bank or Financial Account, or FBARs, meaning he must pay a
penalty of 50 percent of the highest aggregate value of the two
accounts between 2002 and 2009, according to the  Justice
Department . Rolwing said the penalty could be as much as
$664,000.  U.S. District Judge Dan Polster set sentencing for June 1.
He also let Gurary travel back to Switzerland while he is free
on a $200,000 cash bond, Rolwing said. Gurary faces as many as
three years in prison.  The case is U.S. v. Gurary, 11-cr-00072, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Ohio  (Cleveland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 