-- 
Dollar Stumbles Toward Suicide as Euro, Renminbi Rise: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-03-08T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/dollar-stumbles-toward-suicide-as-euro-renmimbi-s-wreck-top-status-books.html
If you fret that the dollar risks
losing its global clout, consider this: It still beats wampum.  Long before the greenback was born, shell beads became
legal tender in Massachusetts Bay Colony, as  Barry Eichengreen 
reminds us in “Exorbitant Privilege,” a brisk primer on the
dollar’s role in the international monetary system.  Corn, wheat and tobacco took turns as colonial coin. So did
Spanish pieces of eight, which dealers called “dollars.” From
these inauspicious beginnings grew the world’s most dominant
currency.  Today, the dollar figures in some 85 percent of all
foreign-exchange transactions, says Eichengreen, warming to his
subject. Oil is priced in dollars. The greenback accounts for
more than 60 percent of the foreign reserves that central banks
hold, and it remains the most important currency for invoicing
and settling international transactions.  Eichengreen teaches economics and political science at the  University of California , Berkeley. He borrows the book’s title
from Valery Giscard d’Estaing’s famous complaint that dollar
dominance affords America an “exorbitant privilege.”  U.S. exporters, after all, get paid in the same currency
they use to pay workers and suppliers. A German company selling  machine tools  to China and receiving payment in dollars bears
the cost of converting them into euros.  $100 Costs Pennies  America’s advantages don’t end there. The U.S. Bureau of
Engraving and Printing can make a $100 bill for a few pennies;
other countries, to get the same amount, must hand over $100 in
actual goods and services. Who says alchemy doesn’t work?  And then there’s the some $5 trillion in U.S. Treasury
bonds and agency debt that foreign central banks hold: The
interest the U.S. pays on those liabilities is less than the
rate of return it gets on its foreign investments. That allows
the U.S. to import more than it exports, year after year.  To understand how this happened, we need some historical
context, which Eichengreen rattles off with unpretentious
erudition. Right up to the eve of World War I, he explains, even
the Belgian franc outranked the dollar in the international
pecking order. Three decades and a second World War later, the
dollar had become the dominant international currency.  This made sense when the U.S. was the only major economy
left standing amid the postwar rubble. The question is why the
dollar continues to hold sway today, when Germany and  China  both
export more than America does.  ‘Monetary Lingua Franca’  Eichengreen breezes through the reasons why the dollar
retains its edge over would-be rivals, starting with the simple
fact that the U.S. still has the world’s biggest economy and its
most liquid financial market. Nor should we underestimate the
power of incumbency. For now, no other currency comes close to
supplanting the greenback as what Eichengreen calls the planet’s
“monetary lingua franca.”  That doesn’t mean that Americans can afford to be
complacent. The world could be heading toward a multipolar
system in which the dollar will compete with the euro and the
renminbi, Eichengreen writes. The days when an international
currency status meant a natural monopoly -- “like municipal
water supply or electricity,” he says -- are numbered.  Still, the greenback’s rivals all have drawbacks: The euro,
for one, “is a currency without a state,” he says. “The
renminbi, for its part, is a currency with too much state.”  SDR Hoopla  As for all the hoopla about the dollar being replaced by
Special Drawing Rights, Eichengreen says we should get real.
SDRs are bookkeeping claims issued by the  International Monetary
Fund ; the list of their limitations as a currency is long.  They account for less than 5 percent of global reserves,
for starters, and they can be used only to settle debts to
governments and the IMF. There are no private markets where they
trade, and an attempt to create such a market in 1981 flopped,
as Eichengreen shows.  The biggest threat to the dollar, it turns out, won’t come
from abroad. It will come from America’s failure to strengthen
its own economy at home, Eichengreen writes: “We may yet suffer
a dollar crash, but only if we bring it on ourselves.”  As I survey America’s economic landscape -- the erosion of
its manufacturing base, the thinning of its ranks of  engineers 
and scientists, the geriatric state of its roads and rail
networks -- I wonder if the country is committing dollarcide.  “Exorbitant Privilege” is from  Oxford  (215 pages, $27.95,
14.99 pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 