-- 
Dubai Stocks Tumble to World’s Cheapest as ING Says Time to Buy

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-09T10:56:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/dubai-stocks-sink-to-world-s-cheapest-as-mideast-unrest-signals-buy-to-ing.html
Growing unrest in the Middle East
sent Dubai stocks to the cheapest level in the world relative to
company assets, a signal to ING Groep NV and Charlemagne Capital
Ltd. that shares in the region’s financial hub are worth buying.  The Dubai Financial Market General Index’s 13 percent drop
this year left it valued at 0.6 times net assets, or book value,
a 67 percent discount to the global average and the least since
Bloomberg began compiling the data four years ago.  Emirates NBD
PJSC (EMIRATES) , the  United Arab Emirates ’ biggest bank by assets, fetches
3.15 dirhams ($0.86) even after the company said last month its
book value was about 6.06 dirhams a share on Dec. 31.  Stocks sank as protests that unseated governments in Egypt
and  Tunisia  spread across the Middle East, threatening to slow
growth in Dubai, the regional headquarters for global firms from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to Morgan Stanley. The emirate’s 0.4
percent inflation rate and 0.8 percent unemployment set Dubai
apart, reducing the likelihood of turmoil and presenting
opportunities for investors, ING and Charlemagne Capital say.  “Worst-case scenarios are being priced in,” said Mark Krombas, a London-based money manager at Charlemagne Capital,
which oversees about $3.5 billion in emerging markets. “For
those who are brave and for value investors with patience, there
are very strong opportunities.”  Relative Value  The DFM index jumped 2.2 percent to 1,443.28 today for the
biggest advance among world equity indexes. The MSCI Emerging
Markets Index climbed 0.2 percent as of 10:23 a.m. in  London .  Share prices may rally back above book values in the next
few years as an expanding regional economy helps boost Dubai’s
return on equity, Krombas said. The gauge of how much companies
earn for each dollar invested has rebounded to 9.1 percent from
a low of 3.2 percent at the end of 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a peak of 28 percent
in November 2007.  The DFM index trades for 5.7 times analysts’ 12-month
earnings estimates, the lowest level worldwide and 30 percent
below the average of 8.1 times during the past four years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies in the index
pay dividends amounting to 4.1 percent of their share prices,
almost double the 2.2 percent dividend yield on the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index.  Volatile Market  “The extent of the undervaluation is greater here than
anywhere else and it does indicate a lack of confidence in
Dubai,” said Paul Cooper, Dubai-based managing director at
Sarasin-Alpen & Partners Ltd., which oversees more than $500
million in the Middle East. “Investors are not basing their
decisions on fundamentals or valuations but rather a fear of the
unknown.”  Swings in investor sentiment during the past five years
have made Dubai one of the world’s most volatile equity markets.
The DFM index’s 90-day volatility, a gauge of share-price
swings, is the seventh-highest among major emerging and
developed markets tracked by Bloomberg after climbing to 22 from
15 at the end of January.  The DFM index surged 493 percent between 2003 and 2007,
with shares trading for as much as 3 times book value, as the
government and state-owned companies borrowed more than $100
billion to create a business and tourism hub that’s home to the
world’s tallest skyscraper and palm-shaped islands off its
coast.  Protests Spread  The benchmark equity gauge lost 72 percent the following
year as the global financial crisis shut off access to credit
and sparked a 62 percent plunge in Dubai real-estate prices.
Dubai World, a state-owned holding company, rocked global
financial markets in late 2009 after saying it would have to
restructure debt.  The DFM index tumbled to the lowest level since 2004 last
week after popular protests that toppled leaders in Tunisia and
Egypt spread to Bahrain, Yemen,  Iran  and Oman, which shares a
border with the U.A.E. Libyan rebels seeking to end Muammar Qaddafi’s 41-year rule have clashed with security forces in a
conflict that’s left 6,000 people dead, Abdullah al-Mahdi, a
spokesman for opposition forces, said on March 5.  Some websites have called for “Day of Rage” in  Saudi
Arabia  on March 11 and March 20,  Human Rights Watch  said Feb 28.  There’s “nervousness that the Libya situation escalates
across the region,” said Jeff Chowdhry, the London-based head
of emerging-market equities at  F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM) , which
manages about $163 billion worldwide. “There’s been a big
correction, but there’s no stock that I’ve done work on in the
Middle East today that appeals to me on a valuation level. For
that value to emerge for me, the markets would have to move down
more than 30 percent from current levels.”  Crisis Valuations  Equity valuations have declined below Dubai’s levels in
countries facing financial and political upheaval.  In the U.S. banking crisis two years ago, the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Financials Index sank to as low as 0.5 times book
value, and shares didn’t rally until after the companies got
about $650 billion of fresh capital injections, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Russian equities fell to 0.2 times
net assets in October 1998 after the government defaulted on $40
billion of domestic debt, according to  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)   Thornburg Investment Management’s Lewis Kaufman says he’s
finding better opportunities to buy stocks in developing nations
including  China  that have faster growth than the Middle East and
aren’t surrounded by political turmoil.  Less Risk  “I can participate in new opportunities in a lot of other
markets that have suffered from inflation pressures but don’t
have anywhere near the same degree of downside risk from
geopolitical contagion or unrest in their own backyard,” said
Kaufman, whose holdings include  Daphne International Holdings
Ltd. (210) , a Shanghai-based shoe retailer that’s retreated 9.6
percent this year and trades for 4.6 times book value, down from
a peak of 16 times in April 2007.  His Thornburg Developing World Fund has outperformed 97
percent of peers in the past year.  Dubai’s economy, which expanded 2.5 percent in the first
nine months of 2010, doesn’t share the combination of high
inflation and unemployment that fueled protests in  Egypt  and
Tunisia.  The emirate’s laws requiring dismissed workers to leave the
country within 30 days of employment visas ending sent the
jobless rate to 0.8 percent in 2009, compared with about 9
percent in Egypt. The  Dubai Statistics Center  hasn’t yet
compiled last year’s unemployment figures. Egypt’s 11 percent
inflation rate is about 27 times faster than Dubai’s, according
to government data.    Berlin Wall  Moment  While Fitch Ratings cited the drag on economic growth from
protests in Bahrain and Egypt for credit downgrades this year,
the  International Monetary Fund  predicts political reforms
following the unrest will lead to higher long-term expansion
rates in the region.  Jim O’Neill , the chairman of Goldman
Sachs’s asset management unit in London, said in a Feb. 14
interview on Bloomberg Television that the popular uprisings
resemble the collapse of the Berlin Wall two decades ago and may
boost growth by opening Middle Eastern countries to world trade.  “Economic prosperity is enhanced when you move from closed
economies to open economies,” said Fadi Al Said, a Dubai-based
senior investment manager at ING Investment Management, which
oversees about $518 billion worldwide. His ING L Invest - Middle
East & North Africa fund beat 88 percent of peers in the past
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “It sets up a
very positive environment for businesses to blossom,” he said.  Default Swaps  Dubai’s dollar-denominated sukuk bonds have returned 1.5
percent this year, while credit default swaps insuring against
nonpayment by Dubai climbed 30 basis points, or 0.3 percentage
point, to 445, according to data provider CMA in  New York . The
increase compares with a 130 basis-point jump to 372 for Egypt.  Dubai’s debt isn’t graded by credit rating companies,
though neighboring  Abu Dhabi  is rated Aa2 at Moody’s Investors
Service, the third-highest investment-grade ranking. Abu Dhabi,
one of the U.A.E.’s seven sheikhdoms along with Dubai, provided
a $10 billion bailout for Dubai World in December 2009.  Fitch cut Egypt’s credit rating to BB, two levels below
investment grade, from BB+, the agency said in a statement on
Feb. 3. Moody’s reduced the North African country by one step to
an equivalent Ba2 on Jan 31.  There are signs that profit growth in Dubai is accelerating
as the global economy expands. Emirates NBD said on Feb. 10 that
fourth-quarter earnings more than doubled, beating analysts’
estimates, as loan-loss provisions declined. The stock is
trading 15 percent below the average 12-month price estimate of
five analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  Attractive Valuations         Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s tallest
tower, said on Feb. 10 that fourth-quarter revenue increased to
about 3.8 billion dirhams from 2.98 billion billion dirhams
while operating profit was little changed from a year earlier.
The stock closed at 2.56 dirhams yesterday, or 50 percent below
the company’s reported book value of 5.10 dirhams a share, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The average 12-month price forecast
for the stock is 4.94 dirhams, according to nine estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  “The sharp decline in stock prices have resulted in very
attractive valuations in Dubai,” said Yong Wei Lee, who helps
oversee about $1.2 billion as a senior  fund manager  at Emirates
NBD Asset Management in Dubai. “As long as stability returns to
this region, then over the medium to long term, buying stocks at
current levels should provide attractive returns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 Zhankir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  