-- 
DynCorp Is Two Years Late Finishing Afghan Barracks Construction

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-08T21:36:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/dyncorp-is-two-years-late-finishing-afghan-barracks-construction.html
DynCorp International Inc. , the
largest contractor in  Afghanistan , is running two years late in
completing construction of a barracks for use by Afghan security
forces, according to the U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers.  The $72.8 million, two-phase project for Kunduz was
originally scheduled to be completed in June 2009. The date was
extended to August 2010. The latest completion target is May 31,
Corps spokesman Eugene Pawlik said in an e-mail yesterday.  Construction delays at the Kunduz barracks, in northern
Afghanistan, and at other facilities throughout the country
complicates the U.S. process of turning over security functions
to Afghan forces, said  Charles Tiefer , a member of the
Commission on Wartime Contracting.  “It’s a setback in our hoped-for rapid build-up of the
Afghan army’s infrastructure, which needs top priority if we’re
to meet the deadline of turning responsibility for the country’s
security to these Afghan forces in 2014,” Tiefer, a University
of Baltimore professor, said in an e-mail today. The eight-
member commission was established by Congress to monitor
contracting in Iraq and Afghanistan.  Ashley Burke, a spokeswoman for  Falls Church , Virginia-
based DynCorp, said in an e-mail that “unanticipated soil
abnormalities were a major issue impeding the construction
progress.” DynCorp was acquired last year by New York-based
Cerberus Capital Management LP.  Correcting Deficiencies  Pawlik, the Corps of Engineers spokesman, said DynCorp is
“currently grading and constructing ditches at the facility”
under a “revised drainage plan” and “correcting the
deficiencies to a guard tower and dining facility” caused by
soil problems. “This work is anticipated to be complete by the
end of May.”  There has been progress, as 1,900 Afghan troops have moved
onto the site since July, Pawlik said. The personnel have power,
water and sewage systems, and 95 of 115 buildings are complete,
according to Corps records.  Arnold Fields , then the special inspector for Afghanistan
reconstruction, said in January that widespread construction
delays meant the Afghan force “is probably being put together
much more rapidly than the infrastructure” needed to support
it. Fields resigned the inspector’s post earlier this year.  The U.S. has allocated $11.4 billion for construction
projects to accommodate Afghan soldiers and police, including
884 facilities by Sept. 30, 2012, Fields told the wartime
contracting commission in January. As of November 2010, 133
projects had been completed with another 78 under way, he said.
The remaining 673 hadn’t been started and construction takes
about 12 months.  Restricting Training  Burke, of DynCorp, said the company hired geological
experts to analyze soil content that was “causing instability
in some areas” at Kunduz. “We are working closely with our
customer to ensure the most expeditious transfer of the
remaining facilities while ensuring the best possible safety and
quality standards.”  An audit by the special inspector’s office in April 2010
said the Kunduz delay was “dramatically restricting training
and operations” at the facility.  DynCorp has lost at least $2.4 million in “liquidated
damages” that “cover the estimated daily costs associated with
the government’s administering the contract beyond the
completion date,” Pawlik said. The Corps of Engineers is
“retaining” an additional $3.48 million that will be released
to DynCorp on completion, according to Pawlik.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Tony Capaccio  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  