-- 
E.ON, British Gas to Hire Apprentices in U.K. ‘Green Deal’

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-03-08T16:25:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/e-on-b-q-british-gas-to-hire-apprentices-in-u-k-green-deal-.html
  E.ON AG (EOAN) ,  Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ’s B&Q home
improvement chain and  Centrica Plc (CNA) ’s British Gas backed U.K.
plans to create at least 1,000 apprenticeships as part of the
government’s “Green Deal” that aims to insulate every home.  Building manager  Carillion Plc (CLLN)  and the insulator InstaGroup
will also take part in the program, the Department of Energy and
Climate Change said today in an e-mailed statement. In a
separate statement, DECC set out for the first time a detailed
timetable of the measures it’s taking to cut energy use and
greenhouse gas emissions, with deadlines for their completion.  “The new green economy is going to support jobs, growth
and help defend Britain from high  oil prices ,” Energy and
Climate Change Secretary  Chris Huhne  said in the statement. “To
succeed we’ll need a big injection of skills and investment.”  The  Green Deal  lays out incentives to insulate the nation’s
26 million homes, and is the centerpiece of legislation put
before Parliament on Dec. 8 and being debated today in the upper
chamber. The government says the plan may create 100,000 jobs by
2015 and is crucial to help the U.K. meet its goal of cutting
carbon dioxide emissions by 34 percent from 1990 levels in 2020.  Jobs for Youths  The apprenticeships may also help the government bring down
youth unemployment, which rose to a record in the fourth
quarter. About 80 percent of apprentices are aged 16 to 24 when
they start training, the energy department said. Joblessness in
that age group reached 965,000 in the fourth quarter, or 20.5
percent, the highest since comparable records began in 1992.  The government didn’t detail how many apprentices each of
the companies will take. A spokesman for the energy department
said they would be funded from a 1.4 billion-pound ($2.3
billion) program paying for more than 350,000 apprentices across
all industries for the tax year through March 2012. The
government will lay out its next budget on March 23.  “Building a greener future must be at the heart of this
month’s budget,” Mike Childs, head of climate at the
environmental group Friends of the Earth, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Thousands of new green jobs could be created if we
invested in the U.K.’s vast green energy potential and slashed
energy waste.”  ‘Carbon Plan’  In another announcement today, the energy department
disclosed a “carbon plan” with deadlines for energy-saving and
emissions-reduction measures being taken in the U.K. to spur
electricity production from renewable sources, insulate and heat
homes more efficiently and encourage cleaner modes of
transportation such as trains, buses and electric vehicles.  Among deadlines announced by the government are legislation
to be issued by the Treasury by the end of next month to set a
carbon floor price and the awarding of the first contract by the
energy department for a project to capture  carbon emissions  from
a power plant and pump them for permanent storage underground.  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s ScottishPower Ltd. is the only company left in a
government competition for 1 billion pounds of funding for the
technology, known as CCS.  The department also said it aims to make operational a
Green Investment Bank, designed to channel funding to emissions-
cutting technologies, by September 2012. The Department for
Transport will develop a nationwide strategy to promote the
installation of electric vehicle infrastructure by June,
according to the statement.  “The government must now demonstrate to industry that it
has a vision for marrying its climate change objectives with the
need to create jobs and promote growth,” Gareth Stace, London-
based head of Climate & Environment Policy at the EEF, a lobby
group for U.K. manufacturers, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  