-- 
Heating Oil, Gasoline Slip on Speculation OPEC to Raise Output

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-03-08T19:08:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/heating-oil-gasoline-slip-on-speculation-opec-to-raise-output.html
Heating oil and gasoline sank along
with crude-oil futures as OPEC members discussed whether to hold
an emergency meeting on increasing crude production.  Prices dropped a second day after Kuwaiti oil minister
Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al-Sabah said Abdalla El-Badri, the
secretary-general of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, was getting a consensus from members on whether an
urgent meeting is needed. Gasoline futures fell below a key
price support level, triggering further selling.  “There’s been some chatter about an emergency meeting with
OPEC,” said  Tom Knight , vice president of trading and supply at
Truman Arnold Cos. in Texarkana,  Texas . “This is a market that,
if it doesn’t have bullish headlines, it’s going to sell off.”  Heating oil for April delivery slipped 5.64 cents, or 1.8
percent to $3.0093 a gallon at 1:47 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures dropped as much as 2.7 percent, the
most since Nov. 17.  Gasoline futures have fallen below technical support at $3,
creating “the best chance we’ve had for a correction in some
time,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest
in  Chicago .  Gasoline for April delivery sank 5.37 cents, or 1.8
percent, to $2.9502 a gallon, after slipping as much as 2.4
percent.  ‘Day of Rage’  The “Day of Rage” demonstrations called for on March 11 and
March 20 in  Saudi Arabia  are likely to be non-events, Brad Bourland, an economist with Jadwa Investment Co. in  Riyadh , said
at the IHS-Cambridge Energy Research Associates conference in
Houston. The 14 percent gain in the Saudi Stock Market’s Tadawul
All Share Index since March 2 was evidence that investors expect
stability, he said.  Unplanned refinery outages, including the shutdown of a
gasoline-making unit and fire at Sunoco Inc.’s Philadelphia
refinery, have created some support for the fuel, Flynn said.
“Even with the short-term refinery issues it seems that the
market is settling down. We’re probably getting the most
significant break in gasoline in at least a week.”  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, advanced
0.8 cent to $3.517 a gallon yesterday, AAA said on its  website .  U.S. gasoline inventories are forecast to decrease 1.5
million barrels, according to the median estimate of 16 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Stocks of the fuel fell 3.59 million
barrels to 234.7 million barrels for the week ending Feb. 25,
according to the Energy Department.  Sunoco will shut a fluid catalytic cracker at the 355,000-
barrel-a-day refinery for unscheduled repairs that may last
several weeks, Thomas Golembeski, a company spokesman, said in
an e-mail yesterday.  The company contained a fire in a vacuum tower at the
plant, Carl Grynes, a chief with the city fire department, said
yesterday.  Inventories of distillate, including heating oil and
diesel, are expected to drop 500,000 barrels from 159.2 million,
according to the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 