-- 
Eaton, Illinois Tool Maintain Capital Spending Programs Even as Oil Rises

-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 
2011-03-08T21:28:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/eaton-ceo-sees-oil-hurting-consumers-not-industrial-spending.html
Manufacturing companies such as  Eaton Corp. (ETN)  and  Illinois Tool Works Inc. (ITW)  are keeping capital-
spending plans intact, even as oil trades at 29-month highs, top
executives said.  The volatility would have to last three to five months
before it would have “a significant impact in industrial
capital markets,” Eaton Chief Executive Officer Sandy Cutler
said at an ISI industrial conference in New York today. Oil
hasn’t hurt  capital spending , said Illinois Tool CEO David Speer  Concern that violence in Libya would further squeeze Middle
Eastern supplies has helped push oil up 15 percent this year.
The price volatility has prompted airlines to enact six broad
fare increases and Sonoco Products Co. announced a surcharge
today on shipments of its paper-based tubes and cores beginning
in April because of diesel costs.  Cutler recalled the oil surge of May 2008 to July 2008,
when consumers curbed spending while companies moved ahead with  capital expenditures .  “We’ve just got to see how this plays out,” said Cutler,
who has led Cleveland-based Eaton since 2000. “I don’t think
it’s going to be the immediate impact in the capital goods
market that it’s going to be in the consumer markets. But if it
goes on for too long, you’re clearly going to have to see some
marginal impact.”  Illinois Tool, based in Glenview, Illinois, plans capital
spending of about $400 million this year, up from $250 million a
year ago, Speer said.  “I think we, like many companies, will be deploying more
capital,” he said. “I think the capital environment will be
better in 2011 than what we’ve seen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Daley in  New York  at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  