-- 
Global Hedge Fund Assets May Hit Record $2.25 Trillion, Deutsche Bank Says

-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 
2011-03-08T01:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/hedge-fund-assets-to-hit-record-2-25-trillion-by-year-end.html
Global hedge fund assets may reach a
record $2.25 trillion by year-end on increasing capital inflows
and performance gains, according to a  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  annual
investor survey.  Capital inflows may quadruple to $210 billion this year
from 2010, leading to a 10 percent expansion in assets, the
survey released today showed. Assets rebounded to $1.917
trillion at the end of last year, closing in on the peak of
$1.93 trillion in the second quarter of 2008, according to Hedge
Fund Research Inc. data.  The HFRI Fund Weighted Composite Index gained 10 percent
last year, helping the global industry to draw $55 billion of
new money, the first year subscriptions outstripped redemptions
since 2007, according to HFR, the Chicago-based data provider.
Investors are building up hedge fund teams as they predict an
average 7.6 percent gain in the index and stronger inflows this
year, according to the survey.  “In 2010, a lot of investors still had to deal with side-
pocketed, gated and suspended investments,” said Anita Nemes,
Deutsche Bank’s London-based global head of capital introduction,
referring to practices by hedge funds to curb withdrawals. “The
situation this year is more favorable.”  More than 60 percent of investors have less than 5 percent
of investments locked up in funds that have restricted
withdrawals, according to the survey.  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest bank,
estimated investors may cut their cash holdings by $29 billion
by June, with a portion of that going potentially to hedge funds.
About 75 percent will have cash less than 5 percent of their
assets by June, the survey said.  Building Teams  Eight-three percent of sovereign wealth funds and 72
percent of pension funds are expanding their hedge fund teams as
they add investments to meet their return targets and bypass
funds of funds for direct investments, it said.  More than half of investment consultants are also building
up hedge fund teams, it said. About 82 percent of them said
their clients are increasing the portion of their assets
invested in  hedge funds  this year, the survey found. Consultants
provide research, advice on hedge funds and may perform due
diligence and monitor the work of managers.  Last year’s actual inflows fell short of the $222 billion
predicted by the same survey in March 2010.  “Somewhat disappointing returns and perhaps over-bullish
investor sentiment following a stellar 2009 resulted in less
than predicted flows,” Nemes said.  Sovereign Hedge Funds  The ninth Deutsche Bank Alternative Investment Survey
polled 528 investors which manage more than $1.3 trillion of
hedge fund assets, including sovereign wealth funds, funds of
funds, private banks, pensions, wealth individuals, insurers,
foundations, endowments and consultants.  About half of all investors surveyed increased their hedge
fund holdings last year, including 83 percent of sovereign
wealth funds, and 64 percent of endowments and foundations. A
large portion of the new capital was allocated to a few very
large hedge funds in 2010, it added.  This year, smaller managers stand to benefit from rising
inflows as investors shift their focus from those managing more
than $5 billion to a more diversified group, said the survey.  “A need to diversify and the closure of some large funds
to new investments have been the key drivers,” Nemes said.
“2010 also saw some larger funds posting somewhat disappointing
performance numbers.”  Smaller Size  Sixty-five percent of the respondents to the survey said
the average size of the hedge funds that they allocate money to
this year will be smaller than $1 billion.  Thirty-five percent of them indicate they will invest in
managers overseeing assets between $500 million and $1 billion
in 2011, making them the most popular bracket for new
allocations. The $1 billion to $5 billion group remains the most
popular average size of managers that they have investments in,
the survey said.  More than half of the investors will allocate money to a
new fund at inception, jumping from 20 percent in 2004, the
survey showed.  Funds employing the equity long-short, event-driven and
global macro strategies will have the best returns and most
inflows this year, according to the survey.  “We expect the hedge fund industry in Asia Pacific to grow
steadily throughout the year, driven largely by the more recent
launches growing in scale,” said Harvey Twomey, the bank’s Hong
Kong-based Asia-Pacific head of global prime finance sales.
“Asia Pacific was disproportionately reduced by global hedge
fund investors from 2007 through early 2010.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  