-- 
Heirloom Tomatoes, Coffee Help Attract Foodies to U.S. Malls

-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 
2011-03-08T21:11:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/heirloom-tomatoes-coffee-help-attract-foodies-to-u-s-malls.html
Malls angling to reel in American
shoppers are using groceries as bait.  In some locations, they’re bringing in supermarket chains
to do the job. In May,  Westfield Group (WDC)  is opening an Aldi
grocery in a Chicago-area shopping center. In other malls, the
owners are aiming upscale and establishing farmers-market-style
food courts with a cornucopia of artisanal products.  “They are things a foodie would be attracted to,” said
Arthur Coppola, chief executive officer of  Macerich Co. (MAC) , which
in May plans to open The Market at its Santa Monica Place mall.  More U.S. retailers are selling groceries these days.  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  and  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  are putting fresh veggies
and sushi up front with the cough syrup.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is
offering food in more urban neighborhoods, and Target Corp. has
put comestibles in more than 460 locations.  Grocery stores pull in shoppers almost nine times a month,
three times as often as malls do, according to trade groups.  The idea is that if people come to the mall to buy food
they’ll buy other merchandise, as well, said  Dan Fasulo , the
managing director of Real Capital Analytics, a New York firm
that provides real estate data.  Fresh food “definitely has the ability to drive more
traffic and make a mall more profitable,” Fasulo said.  By 2020, stores selling groceries will account for as much
as 5 percent of the square footage at U.S. enclosed malls and
lifestyle centers, according to an estimate by  Craig Johnson ,
president of Customer Growth Partners, a  New Canaan ,
Connecticut-based retail consulting firm. Today, they represent
less than 1 percent of square footage, he said.  Soufflé Bar  “The percentage is growing as more malls are
redeveloped,” Johnson said.  When Coppola was looking to open The Market in  Santa
Monica , he took his cues from the city’s twice-weekly farmer’s
market. Rockenwagner Bakery, which sells its wares there, will
operate a soufflé bar at the mall. Other vendors will sell
heirloom coffee, small-batch vinegars, artisanal meats and wine.
The Market also will have a cooking school, where chefs will
teach shoppers how to work such seasonal produce as artichokes
into their meal menus.  The mall’s food offerings, which already include six
celebrity chef restaurants and nine fast-food counters, are
helping generate sales of more than $1,000 per square foot,
Coppola says, compared with less than $400 before the shopping
center was refurbished.  ‘Next Frontier’  “Adding food choices in a shopping environment helps
extend” how long shoppers stay, Coppola said. “You can
generate traffic, traffic creates sales, sales create profits,
and profits create the ability for tenants to pay the rent.”  Santa Monica-based Macerich, the third-largest U.S. mall
operator, rose 37 cents to $47.98 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have increased 24 percent
over the past 12 months.  Mall owners are luring supermarket chains to a range of
locations, from middle- to up-market. Macerich, which in
December opened a Hispanic market at its Desert Sky Mall in
Phoenix, has signed leases with  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) ,
SuperValu Inc.’s Albertsons and Trader Joe’s.    General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the second largest U.S.
mall operator, sells fresh food at “many” of its 169 malls and
is steadily adding more, said Executive Vice President Michael McNaughton, who declined to provide specific figures. One of the
company’s  San Francisco  malls features a Trader Joe’s market.  “Grocery is the next frontier,” he said.  Chicago-based General Growth Properties rose 22 cents to
$15.20. The shares have advanced 40 percent over the past 12
months.  Full Circle  Westfield Group this summer is replacing the traditional
food court at a Skokie, Illinois mall with a marketplace
offering gourmet prepared foods and groceries, said Katy Dickey,
a Los Angeles-based spokeswoman. This will bring to eight the
number of its 55 U.S. malls that sell groceries, Dickey said.
Westfield shares rose 13 cents to A$9.79 in Sydney.  U.S. malls are coming full circle. Fifty years ago,
supermarkets were tenants in many American shopping centers,
said John Bemis, an executive vice president at Jones Lang
LaSalle. By the 1960s and 1970s, they could no longer afford the
rents and fled to cheaper precincts, he said. Now, in the wake
of the real estate slump, they’re back.  Next Coppola may tackle Macerich malls in  San Rafael ,  California  and Scottsdale,  Arizona .  “It’s a no-brainer,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  