-- 
Telmex to Split Into Two Companies, Telmex Social to Serve Rural Customers

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-03-09T15:09:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/telmex-to-split-into-two-companies-telmex-social-to-serve-rural-customers.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s Telefonos
de Mexico SAB is shedding its less profitable phone lines in
rural and low-income areas by putting them in a separate
business as it seeks equal footing against Grupo Televisa SA.  The split will create Telmex Social, which will provide
service in the 46 percent of the country where competitors
haven’t entered, the company said yesterday in a  filing . Telmex
is analyzing whether the split will be a spinoff or will create
two units of a holding company, a spokeswoman said.  Slim is urging regulators to allow him to offer television
service over his phone lines to compete with Televisa, whose
cable-TV units are selling packages of video, voice and Internet
in urban areas. Telmex reported an operating profit margin of 25
percent last year, down from 29 percent in 2009. Rural and low-
income lines require “significant investments” and “great
costs” for expansion and maintenance, Telmex said last month.  “This is separating the profitable from the
unprofitable,” said Martin Gonzalez, an analyst with Invex Casa
de Bolsa SA in  Mexico  City. The split will make Telmex’s
finances more transparent for shareholders, he said.  The phone lines to be included under Telmex Social are
operated with small profits or with losses, Telmex said in the
filing. The Mexico City-based company didn’t provide specific
figures.  No Competitors  Telmex, which was acquired by a group led by Slim in a 1990
privatization sale, remains Mexico’s largest phone company. Of
its 15.6 million lines, 1.8 million were in areas where
competitors didn’t invest, Telmex said in its fourth-quarter
 report . Mexico’s second-biggest phone company, Axtel SAB, has
1.04 million lines. Televisa’s cable units have 501,000.  Telmex’s rural and low-income lines get most of their
revenue from long-distance bills and fees charged to competitors
to connect calls, the company said. Since its privatization,
Telmex has been  required  under its government license to expand  service  in rural areas, while competitors don’t have a similar
obligation.  In court, Telmex has blocked a move by Mexico’s
 Communications and Transportation Ministry  to reduce the number
of long-distance zones in the country and allow consumers in
large metropolitan areas to make local calls where long-distance
is now required. The phone company has said that while it favors
a reduction in the zones, it disagrees with the ministry’s
implementation of the plan.  The restructuring of Telmex will require approval from the
communications ministry and other regulators, the company said.
The split will divide assets, debt and capital between both
companies. Shareholders will own parts of both in some form,
said the company’s spokeswoman, who can’t be named under
Telmex’s policy.  Telmex fell 5 centavos to 10.70 pesos at 9 a.m. in Mexico
City trading. The shares had gained 7.4 percent this year before
today. Slim’s America Movil SAB holds about 60 percent of Telmex
shares, and  AT&T Inc. (T)  has 8.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  