-- 
Members of Congress Jockey to Cut the Budget at Someone Else's Expense

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-03-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/members-of-congress-jockey-to-cut-the-budget-at-someone-else-s-expense.html
U.S. Representative Jim Jordan, an
Ohio Republican, wants to eliminate funding for  Amtrak , which
may be an easy call for him because the passenger rail system
doesn’t  serve  his  district .  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
proposes rescinding tax breaks for the oil industry, which
overwhelmingly supports his Republican colleagues.  Florida 
Republican Allen West wants to slash federal spending overall,
though not for the beach-erosion projects important to his West
Palm Beach district.  Congress is awash in proposals to cut the federal budget,
which often translates to trying to cut someone else’s program
even as lawmakers talk tough about difficult decisions and
shared sacrifice.  “The folks in  Iowa  think urban mass transit grants are
worthy of significant reductions, and people on the New York
subway think farm price supports could be lowered,” said former
Congressional Budget Office Director Robert Reischauer. “We’re
not going to get very far in our effort to reduce spending
unless everybody is willing to tighten the belt at least one
notch.”  How to distribute budget reductions among different groups
and regions of the U.S. will be a major issue in this year’s
budget battles, beginning with the fight over funding the
government for the rest of this fiscal year. Republicans insist
on cutting $50 billion more through Sept. 30 than Democrats
propose, and the Senate will take test votes on each side’s plan
as soon as today.  Conflicting Pressure  Lawmakers are under conflicting pressure to shrink the
deficit yet preserve their constituents’ favorite programs, so
the political sweet spot for many is to cut items irrelevant to
their districts, said Reischauer, now president of the  Urban
Institute , a Washington-based public policy group.  The aim for many, Reischauer said, is to “achieve the
broad goal of spending reduction without the pain of taking
something away from the voters in their district.”  The Republican-backed budget bill the House approved Feb.
19 would cut $61 billion in spending across the country, with
some of the deepest reductions for programs supported by
Democrats. Among them: grants for mass-transit systems and
development programs important to cities, heating subsidies
important to the Northeast, and aid to  National Public Radio  and
the  National Endowment for the Arts .  The bill leaves untouched the  Essential Air Service , which
subsidizes flights to rural areas at a cost that can reach
thousands of dollars per passenger.  ‘Shared Sacrifice’  “Clearly programs that were favored by Democrats received
deeper cuts than programs that were favored by Republicans,”
said Representative Steve LaTourette of  Ohio , a member of a
group of self-described moderate Republicans known as the
Tuesday Group. “If we’re going to have shared sacrifice,
everybody should be in the game.”  Democrats are simultaneously trying to foist cuts onto
Republicans. One target is farm payments, with Representative
Anthony Weiner pushing to cut mohair subsidies for goat farmers
- not a constituency of his New York City district.  President  Barack Obama  and congressional Democrats such as
Reid want to rescind $44 billion in tax breaks for the oil and
gas industry, which during the last two years gave almost four
times as much in campaign contributions to Republicans as
Democrats in Congress. New Hampshire Democratic Senator Jeanne Shaheen wants to end tax breaks for hard-rock mining companies,
which would have little effect on her home state.  Beach Erosion  Parochialism sometimes trumps party, as Georgia Republican
Paul Broun found when he tried to amend the House bill to
eliminate funding for  Army Corps  of Engineers projects aimed at
fixing eroded beaches.  Critics noted his Athens-area district is landlocked, and
Republicans and Democrats alike from coastal areas lined up
against the plan. Among them was West, a freshman backed by the
Tea Party who criticized federal spending in a speech to the
Conservative Political Action Conference last month in  Washington .  “I would be damn stupid to cut beach programs in the state
of Florida,” West said. “What is Florida without beaches?
People don’t go down there for trees.”  Likewise, House Democrats and Republicans from the West
joined to kill Ohio Democrat Marcy Kaptur’s bid to slash money
for a program that compensates mostly western states for the
tax-exempt status of federal land within their borders.  ‘Welfare’ to the West  Kaptur called the program “welfare payments to the West.”  Some lawmakers who talk of cutting spending are less
specific when asked what could be pared from their own
districts. “I don’t know -- you tell me,” said West.  Jordan said his push for cuts totaling more than the $61
billion in the House approved would affect many programs in his
district.  Broun pointed to his agreement to join his party in ending
pet projects known as earmarks.  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, said
“everybody has to take some pain” to solve the government’s
budget problems.  “The first way to have some legitimacy is to talk about
your own state -- what is not working well, what is wasteful,
what is not accomplishing a greater good for the country,”
Coburn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  