-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance as Crude Oil Declines From 29-Month High

-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-03-08T22:25:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/emerging-market-stocks-advance-as-crude-oil-declines-from-29-month-high.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, helping
the benchmark measure to rebound from its first decline in seven
days, as oil’s drop from a 29-month high eased concerns
inflation will quicken and slow economic growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index increased 0.3 percent to
1,135.77, after yesterday’s 0.6 percent loss.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  climbed 0.8 percent, Mexico’s IPC index rose 0.2
percent and Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  added 1.8 percent.  India ’s Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index gained 1.2
percent, the most in a week, as a partner in Prime Minister
Manmohan Singh’s government delayed a decision to withdraw from
the coalition.  Crude oil fell for the first time in three days, retreating
from a 29-month high, as members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries discussed whether to hold a
special meeting on a production increase. Lower  oil prices  would
cut import costs and ease inflationary pressures for emerging
markets.  “The correction in oil is feeding optimism,” said Alex Pomento, a strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Manila.
“Emerging markets staged a technical recovery on speculation
that inflationary risk will ease.”  Oil slid as much as 2 percent to $103.33 a barrel in  New
York . Unrest has cut output in  Libya  by as much as 1 million
barrels a day, according to the  International Energy Agency . The
price of crude, which has risen 29 percent in the past year,
yesterday closed at the highest level since Sept. 26, 2008.  Gulf Cooperation  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Persian Gulf stocks gained
2.1 percent, its fourth straight advance, after an official said
the Gulf Cooperation Council may discuss an economic aid plan
for Bahrain and Oman. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  rallied 4.3 percent, the
biggest gain since December 2009. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
climbed 2.7 percent.  The Turkish lira appreciated 0.5 percent against the dollar
as lower crude prices improved prospects for controlling the
country’s trade and current-account deficits. Turkey imports
about 93 percent of its oil.  Tata Motors Ltd., owner of Jaguar Land Rover, rebounded
3 percent today as Singh’s second-biggest ally delayed a
decision on pulling out of the federal cabinet, signaling talks
to heal a rift over how to fight state elections are making
progress.    Mexico ’s economy will expand 4.3 percent this year,
according to a survey released by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.
Bolsa Mexicana de Valores SAB, Mexico’s securities exchange
operator, rose 1.1 percent to 23.11 pesos.  Hungary, China  Hungary’s BUX Index slid 1.3 percent as Mol Nyrt. retreated
2.5 percent, the most in a month. Mol, the country’s largest oil
refiner, has a 33 percent weighting in the gauge of 12 stocks.  The Shanghai Composite Index rose 0.1 percent, erasing
earlier losses and driving the benchmark index to a three-month
high, as property developers and automakers climbed after China
Vanke Co. reported higher earnings.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps was little changed
at 195.  The difference between the return investors demand from
emerging-market bonds and U.S. Treasuries narrowed 10 basis
points to 247, according to the JPMorgan Chase EMBI+ index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  