-- 
I Know the Secret to Economic Growth: Hillary Rodham Clinton

-- B y   H i l l a r y   R o d h a m   C l i n t o n
-- 
2011-03-08T05:05:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/empowering-women-helps-global-growth-commentary-by-hillary-rodham-clinton.html
One of the biggest growth markets in
the world may surprise you.  You’ve heard about the opportunities opening up in
countries like  China , regions like  Asia  and industries like
green technology. But one major emerging market hasn’t received
the attention it deserves: women.  Today, there are more than 200 million women entrepreneurs
worldwide. Women earn more than $10 trillion every year, which
is expected to grow by $5 trillion over the next several years.
In many  developing countries , women’s incomes are growing faster
than men’s.  Facts such as these should persuade governments and
business leaders worldwide to see investing in women as a
strategy for  job creation  and economic growth. Many are doing
so. Yet the pool of talented women is underutilized, underpaid
and underrepresented in business and society.  Throughout the world, women do two-thirds of the work, yet
they earn just one-third of the income and own less than 2
percent of the land. Three billion people don’t have access to
basic financial services we take for granted, like bank accounts
and lines of credit; the majority of them are women.  Certainly we are seeing the impact of excluding women in
the Middle East, where the lack of their access to education and
business has hampered economic development and helped lead to
social unrest.  Ripple Effect  If we invest in women’s education and give them the
opportunity to access credit or start a small business, we add
fuel to a powerful engine for progress for women, their
families, their communities and their countries. Women invest up
to 90 percent of their incomes on their families and in their
communities.  When women have equal access to education and health care
and the freedom to start businesses, the economic, political and
social benefits ripple out far beyond their own home.  At the State Department, we are supporting women worldwide
as a critical element of  U.S. foreign policy . We are
incorporating women’s entrepreneurship into our international
economic agenda and promoting women’s access to markets through
the  African Growth and Opportunity Act , the Pathways to
Prosperity Initiative and women’s entrepreneurship conferences.  The U.S. is hosting the  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
Forum 2011  to help foster growth and increase opportunities for
women throughout the region. We are working with the private
sector to provide grants to local non-governmental organizations
around the world that are dedicated to women and girls.  Closing the Gap  We are encouraging governments and the private sector to
use the tools at their disposal to provide credit, banking and
insurance services to more women. Through our  mWomen initiative ,
we will begin to close the gender gap in access to mobile
technology, which will improve health care, literacy, education
and economic potential.  This is a central focus of my diplomatic outreach. Wherever
I go around the world, I meet with governments, international
organizations and civic groups to talk about economic policies
that will help their countries grow by expanding women’s access
to jobs and finance.  Many powerful U.S. businesses have embraced this mission as
their own. ExxonMobil Corp. is training women entrepreneurs to
help them advocate for policies to create more opportunities.
Coca-Cola Co. has issued an ambitious challenge in its  “5 by
20” program  to empower and train 5 million new women
entrepreneurs across the globe by 2020.  Improving Access  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. started the  “10,000 Women” 
initiative to open the door for women who would not otherwise
have access to a business education. Ernst & Young is tapping
into the productive potential of women with its “Winning
Women” program to help female entrepreneurs learn growth
strategies from some of the most successful leaders in the U.S.
Companies all over the world are committed to increasing
productivity, driving economic growth and harnessing the power
of emerging markets through greater diversity.  As Robert Zoellick, president of the  World Bank  said,
  gender equality  is smart economics.”  Governments are passing laws that support women’s economic
empowerment and building awareness of  women’s rights . Botswana
lifted restrictions on the industries in which women can work,
for example. Morocco now allows women to start businesses and
get jobs without their husbands’ approval. Bolivia began a land
titling effort to recognize that women and men have equal rights
to own property.  Astonishing Achievements  This week, we celebrate the 100th anniversary of
International Women’s Day. It’s an occasion for honoring the
achievements of women. Without question, the past century has
brought astonishing progress, by just about every measure, in
women’s health, their economic opportunities, political power
and more. Today, women are leaders in every field.  Never in history have there been so many forces working
together for gender equity.  But International Women’s Day is also an occasion for
recognizing how much more needs to be done to support women and
girls worldwide. I encourage everyone reading this to reflect on
what you and your friends can do to support women -- to put
words and ideas into action.  If we decide -- as societies, governments and businesses --
to invest in women and girls, we will strengthen our efforts to
fight poverty, drive development and spread stability. When
women thrive, families, communities and countries thrive -- and
the world becomes more peaceful and prosperous.    Hillary Rodham Clinton  is U.S. Secretary of State in the
administration of President  Barack Obama . The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Hillary Rodham Clinton at   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  