-- 
Clean-Energy Guarantees Should Be Probed for Record-Keeping, Lawmaker Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-03-08T18:55:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/energy-department-falls-short-on-loan-recordkeeping-report-says.html
Lax record-keeping at the U.S.
Energy Department underscores the need for an investigation into
the agency’s loan guarantees for clean-energy projects, the head
of the House Energy and Commerce Committee said.  The Energy Department’s inspector general said in a report
released yesterday that the department’s loan guarantees haven’t
met U.S. standards for record-keeping.  “The lack of accountability identified by the IG is
exactly why Congress is investigating this loan program,”  Fred Upton , the Michigan Republican who heads the energy panel, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  The program, created by energy legislation in 2005, can
cover as much as $71 billion in loans for renewable energy,
transmission lines and other projects. Republicans in Congress
have proposed eliminating the guarantees as part of an effort to
slash federal spending.  The inspector general’s office found the program’s
electronic information system had limited data for 12 of the 18
projects with loan guarantees or conditional commitments, and no
information for three of those projects.  The lack of documentation “leaves the department open to
criticism that it may have exposed the taxpayers to unacceptable
risks associated with these borrowers,” the inspector general
said.  The report didn’t say which projects the audit evaluated.
The Energy Department has issued more than 25 loan guarantees or
conditional commitments so far.  Solyndra’s Plant  Among the projects were a $535 million guarantee to support
solar energy at Solyndra Inc.’s manufacturing plant in Fremont,  California . Upton said Congress is examining the “much-hyped”
guarantee to the company.    David Miller , a spokesman for Fremont, California-based
Solyndra, declined to comment on Upton’s remarks about the
company.  More than a year after receiving its loan guarantee for a
new facility in September 2009, Solyndra closed an older
manufacturing plant, resulting in the loss of about 140 jobs.
Miller said equipment from the old plant was moved to the new,
more efficient one.  “We can drive down our costs quickly, which is what we
really need to remain competitive,” Miller said in an interview
today.  The inspector general faulted the loan-guarantee program
for failing to improve record-keeping after previous government
reports found documentation inadequate. It didn’t find flaws in
the agency’s decision-making for guarantee approvals.  ‘Vast’ Data  “The loan program analysis and review is so comprehensive
that it generates and collects vast amounts of data,”  Stephanie Mueller , an Energy Department spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
“Given the speed with which the funds are being deployed, these
documents have not always been filed in one, single location.”  While  House Republicans  have proposed eliminating funding
for renewable-energy loan guarantees for the remainder of this
fiscal year, “it’s unlikely that the program is going to be
shut down,” said  Salo Zelermyer , an energy and environment
attorney at Bracewell & Giuliani in Washington and a former
Energy Department official.  The program, sometimes criticized for not moving quickly
enough to guarantee loans, is now under fire for failing to keep
adequate records in its rush to approve projects, he said in an
interview.  “It’s a very difficult position for the department to be
in,” said Zelermyer in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  