-- 
EU Is Said to Agree on Extending Sanctions Against Qaddafi, Freezing Fund

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-03-08T17:23:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/eu-said-to-agree-to-freeze-libyan-fund-central-bank-assets.html
The European Union will extend an
asset freeze against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  and his
associates to include the country’s sovereign-wealth funds and
central bank, which hold billions of euros in shares of European
companies, four people informed of the matter said.  The agreement was reached today by officials from the EU’s
27 members and may take effect on March 11, the people said. The
sanctions aim to freeze the European holdings of the  Libyan
Investment Authority , or LIA, its former Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Mustafa Zarti, the Libya Africa Investment Portfolio,
the Libyan Foreign Bank, the Libyan Housing and Infrastructure
Board and the country’s central bank, the people said. More
entities may be added to the list next week.  The EU on Feb. 28 implemented a United Nations resolution
on  Libya  by imposing an arms embargo and freezing the assets of
Qaddafi and close associates. The new measure will prevent the
Libyan organizations from selling stakes or collecting dividends
from holdings in  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Pearson Plc and other companies.  The Libyan funds and central bank own stakes in companies
across  Europe , especially in  Italy , which controlled the North
African country as a colony for 30 years before World War II.  Libyan Holdings  Libyan entities own a 7.2 percent stake with a market value
of 2.5 billion euros ($3.5 billion) in UniCredit, Italy’s
biggest bank, and a 2 percent of Italian defense contractor  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  with a market value of 103 million euros. They
also own a 7.5 percent stake in  Juventus Football Club SpA (JUVE) ,
Italy’s most successful soccer team, as well as shares in Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc and 3 percent of Pearson, the publisher of
the Financial Times.  UniCredit’s deputy chairman is Farhat Omer Bengdara, who is
head of Libya’s central bank. If the EU asset-freeze extension
is confirmed, UniCredit will block the voting rights of Libyan
investors, a spokesman for the Milan-based bank said. The move 
won’t have any impact on day-to-day operations.  UniCredit’s move “could be a huge issue if the bank needs
to raise money through extraordinary operations, such as a
capital increase,” said Wolfram Mrowetz, chairman of Alisei SIM
in Milan, who oversees 200 million euros including UniCredit
shares. “In that case, UniCredit should find other investors
available to buy the 7.5 percent of the share sale.” UniCredit
Chief Executive Officer Federico Ghizzoni said last month that
the bank doesn’t need a capital increase.  Organizations  The LIA was established in 2006 to invest the country’s oil
revenue to diversify holdings. The Libyan Arab Foreign Bank was
established in 1972 to support overseas investment and Libyan
Arab African Investment Company was set up to lead investment in  Africa  for Libya, the continent’s third-largest oil producer.  Zarti, a 40-year-old Austrian citizen, has stepped down as
the LIA’s deputy head, he said on March 4 after  Austria  froze
his assets and asked the EU to add him to a list of Libyan
officials targeted by sanctions. A spokesman for Zarti said
today an EU asset freeze would be “totally incomprehensible.”  Libyan rebel fighters prepared an offensive today to regain
a town lost to Qaddafi’s forces as the U.S. and its allies
stepped up the debate on imposing a no-fly zone that might help
the insurgents win a civil war.  The opposition forces are seeking to recapture Bin Jawad,
about 110 miles (160 kilometers) east of Qaddafi’s hometown of
Sirte, after pulling out in the face of reinforced government
troops, Khaled el-Sayeh, a coordinator between the anti-Qaddafi
fighters and their interim ruling council in Benghazi, said in a
phone interview in the eastern rebel stronghold today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 