-- 
EU Urges Energy Savings to Top Carbon Target, Offers to Set Aside Permits

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-03-08T16:13:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/eu-urges-energy-savings-to-top-carbon-target-offers-to-set-aside-permits.html
The European Union urged governments
and businesses to make  energy efficiency  a higher priority to
help the bloc exceed its goal of cutting carbon by 20 percent,
reduce reliance on fossil fuels and boost security of supplies.  The EU may cut greenhouse gases 25 percent by 2020 compared
with 1990, as long as it steps up energy-saving measures, the
European Commission, the bloc’s executive arm, said in a policy
paper published today in Strasbourg,  France . The document maps a
path for an 80 percent reduction in greenhouse gases in 2050.  To avoid a drop in the price of carbon allowances as new
efficiencies result in lower emissions, the commission offered
the option of withholding an unspecified number of permits
starting in 2013.  The EU, which aims to lead the global fight
against  climate change , said the most cost-efficient scenario is
to cut emissions by 40 percent in 2030 and 60 percent in 2040.  “We need to start the transition towards a competitive,
low-carbon economy now,” EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said in a statement. “The longer we wait, the higher
the cost will be.”  While the 27 EU nations are poised to meet the binding goal
to cut emissions by 20 percent, they are lagging behind on their
pledge to boost energy efficiency by 20 percent, the commission
said in the document. Recent EU estimates show Europe will
achieve only half of the improvement it aims for.  Measures that could help accelerate energy savings include
requiring public authorities to refurbish at least 3 percent of
their buildings each year, roughly double the actual renovation
rate, the commission said in a separate statement. Higher
standards should also be applied in public purchases of goods,
services and works, it said. Another idea is to focus on the
roll-out of smart grids and smart meters to limit energy
consumption, according to the document.  ‘Binding Measures’  The commission plans to present “legislative proposals
with very concrete binding measures” in a few months, it said.  To reach the energy-savings goal, it may be necessary to
set aside some of the emission allowances in the next phase of
the bloc’s emissions-trading system that starts in 2013, the
commission said. The program, known as the ETS, is the EU’s
cornerstone of its plan to reduce  greenhouse gases  blamed for
climate change. It imposes pollution limits on more than 11,000
utilities and manufacturing companies.  “Without a set-aside, energy savings achieved by one
company would result, via relatively lower demand for
allowances, in weakening of the price of allowances,” the
commission said. “This could prompt another company to produce
more, consume more energy and emit more carbon dioxide. As a
result, net energy savings would be low or non-existent.”  Original Draft  The commission softened the proposal compared with the
original draft obtained by Bloomberg News last month, when it
suggested that between 500 million ($695 million) and 800
million allowances could be withheld in the eight-year trading
phase through 2020. That would correspond to as much as around
five percent of supply in that period.  The potential set-aside, which would have to be approved by
member states, would be built gradually from the pool of
allowances to be auctioned by member states, according to the
commission. The bloc, which has given away the majority of
allowances since it started the program in 2005, will require
most emitters to purchase their pollution rights from 2013.  The commission’s plans to withhold some permits have
sparked criticism from energy-intensive industries, including
the association of the European steel producers Eurofer. The
group said last month the set-aside would effectively mean
tighter emission caps and higher costs for companies in the EU
emissions program.  Political Divide  In its policy paper today, the commission stopped short of
proposing a more-ambitious binding emissions-reduction target
for  Europe  in 2020, as member states and businesses remain
divided on whether the bar should be raised. Western European
countries including France,  Germany  and the U.K. have called for
a tougher goal, and eastern nations tend to favor a more-
cautious approach.  Building a low-carbon economy will require an additional
annual investment of around 270 billion euros over the next 40
years, an equivalent to 1.5 percent of the EU’s gross domestic
product, the commission said. Much of this will be recovered
through lower import bills for oil and gas, it projected.  The spending will help reduce Europe’s reliance on imports
of energy, stimulate new sources of growth and help create jobs,
according to the commission.  “As  oil prices  keep rising, Europe is paying more every
year for its energy bill and becoming more vulnerable to price
shocks,” Hedegaard said. “So starting the transition now will
pay off.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net 
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 