-- 
Europe May Face More Ratings Cuts, Greek Default, Standard & Poor's Says

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-03-08T20:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/europe-may-face-more-ratings-cuts-greek-default-standard-poor-s-says.html
Some countries in the euro region
may have their credit ratings cut further while a  Greece  debt
default is a “possibility,” said  Moritz Kraemer , managing
director of European sovereign ratings at  Standard & Poor’s .  Asked if the worst was over for the region’s sovereign
credit-rating outlook, Kraemer said: “I wish I could say yes,
but the answer is no.”  The debt ratings of Portugal and Greece remain at risk of
being cut due to concern about how a European Union rescue fund
may affect holders of the two nations’ sovereign bonds, S&P said
March 1. Ireland retained a negative outlook after S&P cuts its
ratings on Feb. 2. Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Greece’s
government bond ratings yesterday to B1 from Ba1, and assigned a
negative outlook to the rating.  “We still have a number of countries with a negative
outlook or CreditWatch negative, indicating their credit ratings
may be going down further,” Kraemer said in an interview at a
EuroMoney conference in  London . “Trigger points for that could
be slippage in fiscal consolidation and structural reforms, but
also decisions that will be taken at the European level later
this month.”  Greek 10-year bond yields and credit-default swaps surged
to a record as borrowing costs increased at a debt sale and
before European leaders begin meetings aimed at containing the
sovereign debt crisis.  Recovery Levels  Spanish bonds also slid as the government sold debt through
banks. Greek bond losses extended declines to a ninth day after
the nation’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s. Portuguese 10-
year bonds fell for a second day before a notes auction
tomorrow. German 10-year bonds dropped amid speculation the
nation’s economic growth will add to pressure on central bankers
to increase  interest rates .  A debt default by the Greece’s government is “a
possibility” and that investors may recover between 30 percent
and 50 percent of the total value if that happens, Kraemer said.
Greece is rated BB+ by S&P, or one level below investment grade.  “We do rate Greece as a non-investment grade for about a
year now, so clearly a default is a possibility,” said Kraemer.
“Defaults out of investment grade are extraordinarily unlikely
and we don’t think there will be any.”  Further Downgrades  The Greek Finance Ministry said yesterday that Moody’s
decision was “incomprehensible.” Moody’s didn’t heed the
progress Greece made in cutting the deficit by 6 percentage
points of gross domestic product last year, according to a
ministry statement.  Ireland, also at risk of further downgrades based on its
outlook at S&P, may fare better than Greece as the country has
the “economic resilience and adaptability to face up to its
challenge,” Kraemer said.  European Union policy makers intends to approve
“comprehensive” package of measures at a March 24-25 summit in
a bid to restore confidence in bond markets. This may include
setting up a permanent rescue facility, known as the European
Stability Mechanism, which will take over the existing mechanism
after 2013.  Credit ratings of some euro-region countries, particularly
Greece and  Portugal , will also depend on the outcome of the
summit, Kraemer said.  Yields Climb  “Our concerns about features that we believe will be part
of it have to do with the preferred credit status effectively
subordinating senior bondholders, and also the possibility to
introduce conditionality for lending that would entail the
restructuring of commercial debt,” said Kraemer. “Both of
those we would consider bad news for bondholders.”  As a consequence, S&P “would consider downgrading ratings
of countries that are possible clients of the ESM after 2013,”
he said. “These countries, in the first instance, are Portugal
and Greece.”  The yield on 10-year Greek bonds jumped as much as 52 basis
points to 12.85 percent, the most since Bloomberg began
collecting the data in 1988, with the increase in yields the
biggest since Oct. 27. It was at 12.84 percent as of 5 p.m. in
London. The 6.25 percent securities maturing in June 2020 fell
2.04, or 20.4 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,389) face amount, to
65.29.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the securities
instead of German bunds widened to as much as 956 basis points,
the most since Jan. 10. The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.3912.  Credit-default swaps insuring Greek  government bonds  rose
five basis points to an all-time high 1,037 basis points,
meaning it costs $1.04 million annually to insure $10 million of
debt for five years. They ended the day seven basis points lower
at 1,025 basis points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  