-- 
Levin Says He’s Not Sold on U.S. Enforcing Libyan No-Fly Zone

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-03-08T22:55:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/levin-says-he-s-not-sold-on-u-s-enforcing-libyan-no-fly-zone.html
Senate Armed Services Committee
Chairman  Carl Levin  said he isn’t sold on setting up an
international no-fly zone over Libya to assist opposition
fighters seeking to overthrow Muammar Qaddafi’s regime.  Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said he needs more answers
before deciding whether a no-fly zone makes military and
political sense.  “There are a whole host of issues that would have to be
considered, so I’d be gathering information, just as the
president is,” Levin said today in an interview after a hearing
on the fiscal 2012 Navy budget.  Levin’s questions follow calls for action on a no-fly zone
from some senior senators, including Foreign Relations Committee
Chairman  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, and Arizona
Republican Senator  John McCain .  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell , of  Kentucky , said
a no-fly zone is “worth considering.” He said another option
“is simply aiding and arming the insurgents.”  Levin said his questions include, “what the targets are,
what the risks are, whether there is support from Arab
countries,  Muslim countries , regional countries? Who would have
what responsibility, what the mission is, would they engage in
offensive combat against Libyan ground forces?”  In his opening statement at a hearing on the Navy budget,
Levin said that under the War Powers Act, President  Barack Obama 
would need to consult Congress before exercising a military
option involving the use of force and “notify Congress promptly
if a decision were made to use force.”  ‘Lot of Facets’  At the hearing, Admiral Gary Roughead, the chief of naval
operations, outlined the complexities of mounting a no-fly zone.  “It’s quite easy to talk about a no-fly zone, but there
are a lot of facets that have to be thought through if you are
even going to go down that path,” Roughead said.  “It’s more than just” having enough aircraft carriers to
mount an operation, he said. There is no carrier in the
Mediterranean today. The  USS Enterprise  is in the  Red Sea  and
has not been ordered into the Mediterranean, Roughead said.  Enforcing a no-fly zone would require Air Force tanker
flights to supplement aircraft carrier refueling, setting up
alternate airfields where crippled planes could land, and a
combat search and rescue capability to save downed pilots, he
said.  Marine Corps General James Amos told senators that most of
the Libyan fighter jets and helicopters attacking insurgents are
concentrated at four bases on Libyan coastline.  Libya’s air force is “modest,” Amos said. “I think
probably the greatest threat is their helicopter-type forces.”
Its air defense consists of older surface-to-air missiles, Amos
said.  Still, Roughead said in an interview after the hearing,  Libya  possesses “a viable air-defense capability.”  “People can speculate as to what the levels of readiness
are, but the fact is, any time you go into an area where there
is an installed air defense capability, you have to take it
seriously,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  