-- 
Ex-Giants Running Back Tiki Barber Returning to NFL as Player, Agent Says

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-03-08T21:29:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/ex-giants-running-back-tiki-barber-returning-to-nfl-as-player-agent-says.html
Former  New York Giants  running back
Tiki Barber ended his retirement and plans to play during the
2011 National Football League season.  Barber, the Giants’ all-time leading rusher, announced his
return through his agent’s Twitter account. The agent, Mark
Lepselter, confirmed Barber’s plans in an e-mail. Barber, 35,
hasn’t played since the 2006 season.  The Giants said in a statement that they would release
Barber from the final two years of his contract once a
collective bargaining agreement is reached with the players’
union, making him a free agent. Barber played his entire 10-year
NFL career with the Giants.  “We wish Tiki nothing but the best, and when we are able to
make the transaction, we will release him from our reserve/
retired list,” the team said.  Jim Fassel, who coached Barber for seven seasons in  New
York , said in a telephone interview that the running back
probably was in “very good shape” after his break from
football.  “He hasn’t taken a pounding,” Fassel said. “If he played 
running back the last four years it’d probably be the end of 
the road, but he probably has a couple of years left.”  Fassel said he hadn’t spoken to Barber in about six months
and was surprised by the announcement.  Barber retired in January 2007 following the Giants’ loss
to the  Philadelphia Eagles  in the first round of the NFL
playoffs. New York won the  Super Bowl  the following season.  Rushing Leader  A three-time Pro Bowl selection, Barber rushed for 10,449
yards and 55 touchdowns, while catching 586 passes for 5,183
yards and 12 scores.  After his retirement, Barber worked for NBC’s “Football
Night in America” and “Today” programs. NBC is now owned by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   Barber last April left his wife of 11 years, who was 8
months pregnant, for a 23-year-old NBC intern, according to the
New York Post. He was fired from his contributor role on
“Today” in May, the Post said, and his reporter role on NBC’s
NFL show wasn’t renewed when it expired earlier in 2010,
according to AOL Fanhouse.  Barber said at NBC’s news conference announcing his hiring
that Giants coach Tom Coughlin didn’t let him rest enough,
creating a “physical grind on me that started to take its
toll.”  Coughlin responded by saying he was “hurt” by the
comments.  Manning Criticized  Barber also characterized Giants quarterback Eli Manning
during training camp in 2007 as lacking emotion. Manning said at
the time he hoped Barber was as open in his criticism of other
teams as he was of the Giants.  Giants fans booed Barber in October 2010 when he was
inducted into the team’s Ring of Honor at New Meadowlands
Stadium in  East Rutherford ,  New Jersey .  “It’s probably better for him to go someplace else,”
Fassel said. “People move on. They just move on. Rarely do you
see a guy that is away from his team go back to that team,
especially with the retirement phase of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 