-- 
Ex-Goldman Sachs Programmer Should Get Probation for Theft, Lawyer Says

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-08T21:00:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/ex-goldman-sachs-programmer-should-get-probation-for-theft-lawyer-says.html
Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
computer programmer Sergey Aleynikov, convicted of stealing the
firm’s trade secrets by appropriating its computer source code,
should get probation and not prison, his lawyer said.  Aleynikov was convicted in December in federal court in New
York on charges of violating the Economic Espionage Act and the
Interstate Transportation of Stolen Property Act. He faces as
long as 10 years in prison on the espionage charge and five
years for the interstate transportation charge when he is
sentenced by U.S. District Court judge Denise Cote on March 18.  Aleynikov doesn’t deserve a prison term “because there was
no evidence of an actual or intended loss,” or financial harm
to Goldman as a result of his actions, his attorney,  Kevin Marino , said in court papers filed late yesterday. Prosecutors
have argued Aleynikov deserves a prison term of eight to ten
years, Marino said.  “While the crimes for which Aleynikov was convicted are
undoubtedly serious, he was not found to have caused or intended
pecuniary harm to Goldman,” Marino said. “As a result he does
not deserve the harsh sentence the government requests -- 97 to
120 months in prison.”  Marino said his client’s alleged crimes merit a term of
probation to six months. The lawyer argued, as he had during the
trial, that Aleyninkov only took open-source code he had written
at Goldman and nothing that was proprietary.  Trading Platform  “The evidence showed at most that Aleynikov intended to
use the code he copied to make it easier for him to build a
high-frequency trading platform” at his new employer’s firm,
Marino said.  “The government now seeks to have Alyenikov punished as
though he had not only stolen Goldman’s entire platform, as it
originally claimed, but also had sold that platform to a Goldman
competitor who used it to cause Goldman monetary damages of
twenty million dollars,” Marino said.  On Feb. 24, Cote ordered Aleynikov, who had been free on
bond, jailed before sentencing because she deemed him a flight
risk. Aleynikov, who is a naturalized U.S. citizen, holds dual
U.S.-Russian citizenship, Marino said.  Assistant  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Rebecca Rohr told jurors
during her closing statement that Aleynikov was a “thief.” On
his last day of work at New York-based Goldman in June 2009,
Aleynikov uploaded hundreds of thousands of lines of source code
from the firm’s trading system, she said.  Encrypted Code  He circumvented Goldman’s security system, sent the code to
an outside server in  Germany , and later compressed and encrypted
the code, Rohr said. Aleynikov took the code with him to a
meeting with his new employers in  Chicago  in July 2009, she
said.  After taking Goldman’s software, Aleynikov executed a
program to cover his tracks, prosecutors said. If he thought the
codes were open source and should be publicly available, “why
did he then encrypt it?” Rohr asked jurors. “So that no one,
like him, could access the code.”  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 1:10-cr-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 