-- 
Fed’s Krieger Says Shadow Banking Changes Needed for Stability

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s
-- 
2011-03-08T16:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/fed-s-krieger-says-shadow-banking-changes-needed-for-stability.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
Executive Vice President Sandra Krieger said additional changes
to so-called shadow banking are necessary to build a “solid
foundation” for the financial system.  “A key lesson emerging from the financial crisis is that
our non-bank based system of financial intermediation needs less
leverage, asset risk and maturity transformation to survive
periods of extreme stress,” Krieger, head of the Credit and
Payments Risk Group at the New York Fed, said in the text of
remarks given in New York today.  “Regulation has done some good, but more work needs to be
done to prevent shadow credit intermediation from being a
continued source of systemic concern,” she said.  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law by President Barack Obama in July, overhauled regulation of the financial system
with the goal of reducing the risks of financial crises. The
legislation also expanded the Fed’s authority by giving it
responsibility for overseeing non-bank financial firms deemed
“too big to fail” because their collapse might pose a risk to
the financial system.  “Supervisors will need to be vigilant about supervised
banks that rely on” external counterparties for “credit
protection and capital relief,” Krieger said. “As investor
appetite returns, there will be incentives to use highly rated
unregulated counterparties,” particularly as higher  capital
requirements  will make it more expensive to finance off-balance-
sheet bank-sponsored conduits, she said.  More Than Triple  Rules drawn up by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  and endorsed by the Group of 20 leaders last year
will require lenders to more than triple the highest-quality
capital they hold to cushion against losses by 2019. The
regulations may trim the return on equity of European banks, on
average, by 4 percentage points, and U.S. banks by 3 percentage
points, according to estimates by McKinsey & Co. consultants.  Additional changes are necessary in the tri-party
repurchase agreement market as “reform to date has not directly
addressed the ability of investors to deal with the failure of a
large dealer,” Krieger said.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party acts as the agent
for the transaction and holds the security as collateral.  “More significant” reforms are also needed for money
market mutual funds to make them less exposed to runs as “a
clear systemic vulnerability remains,” Krieger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  