-- 
Fed Nominee Diamond Says His Nobel Research Helps Risk Identification

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-03-08T15:49:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/fed-nominee-diamond-says-his-research-helps-risk-identification.html
  Peter Diamond , the Nobel Prize-
winning economist struggling to win confirmation to the Federal
Reserve Board, said his research helps inform monetary theory
and gauge risks to the financial system.  Diamond shared the 2010 Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences in
October with  Dale Mortensen  and  Christopher Pissarides  for
research into the difficulties of matching supply and demand,
particularly in the labor market.  The work is a “starting place for applied research in a
wide variety of areas,” including “monetary theory and
analysis of the capital market,” Diamond, a  Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology professor, said today in testimony at
his second Senate Banking Committee nomination hearing in nine
months.  Diamond stepped up the defense of his scholarship after
Alabama Senator  Richard Shelby , the panel’s senior Republican,
said the professor was not qualified to join the Fed because of
insufficient knowledge of monetary policy.  “The varying speeds between the occurrence of surprises to
financial firms and their abilities to respond is a central
element in the development of financial crises, making search
theory an important part of understanding how to avoid and limit
future shocks to the financial system,” Diamond said in today’s
testimony.  Third Try  The White House renominated Diamond, 70, in January,
marking a third try at confirmation after the Senate adjourned
in December without approving him. Diamond’s initial candidacy
was returned to the White House in August under a procedural
objection.  Today, Shelby reiterated and amplified his opposition to
Diamond, saying that while he’s a “very accomplished academic
and economist,” he lacks experience in areas a Fed governor
should have, including conducting monetary policy, bank
supervision and  crisis management . In addition, Shelby objected
to what he said is Diamond’s support for monetary and fiscal
stimulus backed by the Fed and White House.  Rhode Island Senator Jack Reed, the panel’s No. 2 Democrat,
countered that Diamond is “superbly qualified” for the job and
suggested that he could provide the central bank with different
economic perspectives.  Diamond faces a larger Republican minority this year that
could block his nomination again after the party took seats from
Democrats in November’s midterm elections. Last year, while
Obama’s two other Fed nominees were approved by the Senate,
Republicans questioned Diamond’s expertise and the nomination’s
compliance with a law that bars having two governors come from
the same region of the U.S.  Second Vacancy  Since Diamond’s renomination this year, Fed Governor  Kevin Warsh  announced his resignation, opening a second vacancy on the
central bank’s board. The White House has yet to pick a
replacement.  All governors, along with five of the 12 regional Fed
presidents, have a vote on monetary policy at each Federal Open
Market Committee meeting. The FOMC, which next meets March 15,
voted 11-0 on Jan. 26 to maintain its unconventional-stimulus
plans and buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June.  “I share the view that has been expressed by the existing
governors that it is helpful in the right direction,” Diamond
said of the Fed’s stimulus at a Jan. 27 economics symposium at
MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Abraham, Shapiro  Diamond was scheduled to testify today along with two other
witnesses, Katharine Abraham and  Carl Shapiro , who are nominated
for President Barack Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers.  Abraham, a University of  Maryland  professor, said she would
aim to “provide economic insights and analysis that will help
with the formulation of policies conducive to broadly shared
growth.”  Shapiro, who has recently served as chief economist in the  Justice Department ’s antitrust division, said that if confirmed,
“I hope to contribute my expertise to the development of
policies that promote economic growth by creating a business
environment that encourages private sector innovation and
investment.”  Diamond’s nomination for a term ending January 2014 had
been held up by Republicans last year. Shelby has voiced doubts
about Diamond’s qualifications on monetary policy and his
regional designation.  White House  The White House designated Diamond as being from the
Chicago Fed district to comply with the law. In a Nov. 30
interview, Diamond, a professor at MIT since 1966, defended his
professional connections to the region, saying it was sufficient
for the provision. He cited teaching for one quarter at  Northwestern University  in Evanston,  Illinois , seminars at
Northwestern and the  University of Chicago  and other visits for
a few days apiece to schools in the region.  Shelby said today that he believes Diamond is “legally not
eligible to serve” because of the geographic restriction in the
law. “I encourage the President to withdraw this nomination and
look beyond the  Boston  to D.C. corridor for a new nominee,”
Shelby said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  