-- 
Former Och-Ziff Fund Manager Redl to Start Japanese Hedge Fund

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-03-08T01:43:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/former-och-ziff-fund-manager-redl-to-start-japan-hedge-fund.html
Chris Redl, a former  fund manager  at  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (OZM) , plans to start a long-
short hedge fund in April that will invest in Japan’s most
traded companies such as Toyota Motor Corp. and Canon Inc.  The Carnico Japan Fund will start with initial capital of
about $20 million to $30 million on April 1, with New York-based
Wolver Hill Advisors LLC as the anchor investor, said Redl,
managing partner of Singapore-based Siena Capital. Redl is
joined by Dean Kimpton, a former sales trader at Instinet Inc.
in Tokyo, who will be the chief trader, he said.  New hedge-fund offerings globally outpaced closures for the
first time since 2007 last year, and startup funds in Japan
garnered $317 million in 2010, according to Hedge Fund Research
Inc. and AsiaHedge New Funds Survey. He joins a breed of
managers who are setting up their own shops in  Asia  after
working at global financial firms.  “Hedge fund investors are looking for new funds, but still
have a hard time pulling the trigger on very small startups,
rightly or wrongly,” said  Kirby Daley , a Hong Kong-based senior
strategist with Newedge Group’s prime brokerage business.
“Managers with experience at large hedge funds or in the prop
trading groups being spun out of the banks are the only real
exceptions right now, with many of them being given the benefit
of the doubt with early stage investments.”  Ex-Och-Ziff  Redl left Och-Ziff, the New York Stock Exchange-listed
hedge fund run by Daniel Och, in 2009. Och-Ziff’s assets under
management rose to $28.4 billion as of Feb. 1, according to the
firm’s earnings statement last month.  In preparation for the fund’s start, Redl ran the long-
short equity strategy last year, betting on rising and falling
stock prices. He had a 10 percent return from April 1 through
Aug. 31, based on data audited by Ernst & Young, compared with
an 18 percent drop during the same period by Japan’s benchmark
Topix index. In a short sale, a trader borrows stock and sells
it in the hope it can be bought back later at a cheaper price.  A total of 935  hedge funds  opened in 2010, topping each of
the prior two years and the most since 2007 when almost 1,200
funds started, according to  HFR , a Chicago-based industry
researcher. Closures totaled 743 last year, the fewest since
2007 and almost half the record 1,471 in 2008, HFR said.  Morgan Sze, global head of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s
principal strategies proprietary trading desk, and Charlie Chan,
a former Credit Suisse Group AG proprietary trader, are among
expected “high-profile” startups, according to the AsiaHedge
New Funds Survey published last month.  ‘Horse’s Mouth’  Japan-focused hedge funds have returned 3 percent so far
this year through February, outperforming the 1.3 percent
returned by the Eurekehedge Hedge Fund Index, which tracks more
than 2,500 funds globally.  The Carnico fund, named after Redl’s sons Carlo and Nico,
focuses on stocks with trades amounting to $10 million a day on
average over the past three months and on companies where Redl
has met directly with company officials.  “I have to have the word from the horse’s mouth in order
to invest with conviction,” Redl, 44, who also worked as an
equity analyst in Japan at brokerages including  Morgan Stanley (MS) 
and  UBS AG (UBSN) , said in an interview in Tokyo yesterday. “Japan has
its reputation of being a laggard in Asia, but we actually think
it’s a great market to invest in -- in terms of liquidity, long
and short, this is the best market in Asia.”  The fund will invest in 50 to 70 stocks, said Redl, who
visits about 200 companies a year. The portfolio is built around
the quarterly earnings results, while risk-management is
overseen minute-to-minute, allowing the fund to be liquidated
within a couple days if necessary, he said.  “Every quarter there is an exit strategy for the
investments we have and every quarter there is a new story
waiting to happen,” Redl said. Still, “when there is a trend
that happens, you don’t fight it, you get out and be scared.”  Hedge funds are mostly private pools of capital whose
managers participate substantially in the profits from their
speculation on whether the price of assets will rise or fall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  