-- 
Former Navy SEAL Sells TRX Fitness Gear to ‘Enable’ Content Sales

-- B y   A n t o n e   G o n s a l v e s
-- 
2011-03-08T22:13:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/former-navy-seal-sells-trx-fitness-gear-to-enable-content-sales.html
In 1997, Navy SEAL squadron commander
Randy Hetrick was in Southeast  Asia , preparing for a training
mission that involved scaling a cargo ship and commandeering it.
Operating undercover, Hetrick and his team of frogmen couldn’t
leave the wharfside warehouse until the mock exercise began. As
days turned to weeks, Hetrick -- like most SEALS, conditioned as
if he were a professional athlete -- started looking for
alternatives to sit-ups and pushups.  Familiar with body-weight training, a type of exercise used for
years by acrobats, Hetrick wondered whether he could fashion a
device that would use his weight to strengthen his muscles.
Rooting around in a supply box, he found a spool of nylon
webbing employed in making parachute harnesses. After cutting
three strips and tying them into a Y, Hetrick attached one end
to the door and held the other two in his hands. Then he started
experimenting on himself, attracting the attention of colleagues
who offered suggestions. “SEALs are pretty innovative cats,
particularly around physical training,” he says.  Hetrick’s invention became known as “the gizmo” to his squadron,
and its uses became his passion. In 2001, after 14 years as a
SEAL, Hetrick left the Navy to earn an MBA at  Stanford
University , where he frequented the school’s gym to work with
conditioning coaches to turn his invention into a working
prototype. By 2004, with $350,000 from private investors he had
met through connections in the military and at Stanford, Hetrick
launched  Fitness Anywhere  in  San Francisco  to sell a line of
lightweight suspension gear called TRX.  The system, made by contract manufacturers in the U.S. and Asia,
comprises three adjustable nylon straps attached to a metal
ring. By leaning forward or suspending their legs in the air,
users can perform several hundred exercises that range in
difficulty, depending on the body weight leveraged. The TRX kit
-- gear and basic instructional DVD -- costs $190, roughly $40
to $90 more than competing products.  COLLATERAL PRODUCT SUPPORT PAYS OFF  As Hetrick fine-tuned the Fitness Anywhere business model, the
company evolved from simply selling gear to also selling
classes, DVDs, and online videos for its “suspension training,”
a term it registered as a trademark in 2007. “We sell gear to
enable a world of content sales,” Hetrick says. That approach is
what separates Fitness Anywhere from companies that make similar
gadgetry, such as Rip60.com, Monkey Bar Gym, and Astone Fitness,
says Fabio Comana, an exercise physiologist for the American
Council on Exercise, a fitness education group in  San Diego . “A
quality product is not just the tangible product, it’s
everything that supports it, the collateral that goes into that
product,” Comana says. “That’s what makes them unique versus all
the competition in this genre of training.”  Hetrick expects his 120-employee company’s revenue to hit $50
million, up 56 percent from $32 million in 2010, in a fitness
equipment market that industry researcher First Research says
consists of about 100 companies with combined annual revenue of
$3 billion. Hetrick says Fitness Anywhere has been profitable
since 2009, with revenue from training classes ($250 a month for
unlimited classes) and educational videos ($25 per DVD) doubling
year-over-year since 2006, keeping pace with the increase in
gear sales. More than 30,000 people have been certified as TRX
instructors ($250 for a one-day class) in 40 countries.  Fitness Anywhere’s emphasis on training helped it land a 24,000-
kit deal with the U.S. Defense Dept. in November, the latest in
a string of contracts with the military. Hetrick says such sales
more than tripled from 2009 to 2010 after he assembled a sales
force of former military personnel who focus solely on the armed
forces. He forecasts similar increases this year and next. If
U.S. Army trainers decide to make suspension exercises part of
their conditioning programs for soldiers in Afghanistan and
 Iraq , the Pentagon could seek bids for a long-term contract from
makers of the gear this year, says Paul Rohler, director of soldier
and community recreation at Fort Sam Houston in  San Antonio .  TRX fans outside the military include such professional athletes
as New Orleans Saints quarterback Drew Brees and Philadelphia
Phillies shortstop Jimmy Rollins. The gear also has a following
among neighborhood trainers. Eddie Furth, director of fitness at
the Jewish Community Center in  Stamford , Conn., says classes
have grown to 10 a week -- with 90 percent of them filled to
capacity -- since the center introduced them in 2009. Most of
the fitness instructors at JCC were trained by Fitness Anywhere.
“Those [classes] are much, much harder to copy than just a piece
of gear,” says Hetrick.  To contact the reporter on this story: Antone Gonsalves at
 antoneg@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  