-- 
From Rothschild to Gold, Gleick Maps Info Evolution: Interview

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-03-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/from-rothschild-pigeons-to-gold-gleick-traces-info-evolution-interview.html
“It from Bit,” said physicist John Wheeler, who viewed information as the basic principle of
existence, underlying everything from quarks to the space-time
continuum. He’s just one of the great thinkers crowding the
pages of James Gleick’s latest book, “ The Information : A
History, a Theory, a Flood.”  Beginning with 5,000 year old cuneiform records of barley
sales, Gleick takes a look at how we process and think about
information, and how information theory is changing everything
from genetics to quantum mechanics to economics.  We spoke in his light-filled aerie overlooking  Lincoln
Center .  Lundborg: So there’s no quick definition of information?  Gleick: The Oxford English Dictionary has just revised and
updated its entry on information and it now runs almost ten
thousand words.  Scientists have a definition of information that they
created beginning in 1948.  Lundborg: If there’s a central figure in your book, it’s
Claude Shannon, who wrote “The Mathematical Theory of
Communication.”  Gleick: He was an engineer and mathematician at Bell Labs
who created what we now call information theory. He had a
technical definition, with an equation that goes with it.  Heads or Tails  Lundborg: Essentially, he reduced information to a binary
digit, or “bit,” which represents one of two choices, heads or
tails, one or zero.  Gleick: The guiding paradox of my book is that even though
this definition lays the groundwork for the modern world and the
theory, it’s not really satisfactory to us because the whole
point of a scientific view of information was to think of it as
something without meaning.  Lundborg: So are we doing anything differently now that we
have a theory?  Gleick: We are much more sophisticated about information
than our ancestors. We are aware that information is really what
the world runs on, the vital principle. Our jokes are funnier
than 100 years ago.  We’ve become very smart consumers of information -- we’re
aware of all kinds of meta things, all kinds of self-
referentiality. What’s important is to develop the necessary
skills to sort out what’s valuable from what’s garbage.  Lundborg: As you point out, “When information is cheap,
attention becomes expensive.”  Who Will Listen?  Gleick: We’re all both consumers and purveyors of information.
The challenge is not finding ways to say what you want to say,
but finding people to listen.  Lundborg: You say, “Economics is recognizing itself as an
information science, now that money itself is completing a
developmental arc from matter to bits.” So whole disciplines
are evolving?  Gleick: Money itself is an  information technology . If you
take a dollar bill, it’s just a token, an indicator that I have
a claim on some amount of value.  People used to think it was worth something in itself
because it was made of gold. Even now, we sometimes naively
continue to have the illusion that a gold coin has value because
gold is somehow precious.  Lundborg: Look at the rising price!  Gleick: Aside from the industrial uses, the dominant source
of value for gold is something entirely psychological, because
people agree that it stands for something.  It’s really a form of mass hysteria.    Wall Street  Villainy  Lundborg: Do you think Wall Street ran into the recent
crisis because of the growing level of financial abstraction?  Gleick: The villainy in the financial sector over the last
decade has expressed itself in an increasing abstraction of
financial instruments. But it’s not the abstraction in itself.
What’s to blame is the lack of regulation and lack of sense in
the way it was all handled.  Money has to be an abstract thing. But it all got very
meta, too many steps removed from the real thing, and too many
games were played.  Lundborg: Capitalists have always jumped on faster info:
The Rothschilds used carrier pigeons and later financiers loved
the telegraph.  Gleick: In the history of technologies for transmitting
information, it was always apparent that there was a lot of
money to be made by getting information from one place to
another faster than your competitors could do it.  It provides a window into the future.  Lundborg: What surprised you the most during your research?  Telegraphing Info  Gleick: There were a lot of little surprises. When I
started I expected the telephone to be a much more important
story than the telegraph.  But it was the telegraph that made more profound changes in
the way people thought about the role information has in their
lives and in the culture. It taught the first big lessons of the
information age.  Just like the Internet, there was hype and excitement, as
well as fear and the recognition of possible dangers that we see
today.  Lundborg: Your epilogue is entitled: “The Return of
Meaning.”  Gleick: I realized information theory in itself was not
going to be satisfactory. It wasn’t going to give us enough of a
sense of what information really is for us humans, for the very
reason that meaning had to be drained from the definition and
meaning is exactly what we need today.  It’s also a recognition that all the wonderful things we
get from being able to communicate instantaneously with all
corners of the globe have to be balanced by some preservation of
our own individual creativity.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 