-- 
Greek Bond Yields, Swaps Climb to Records Before EU Leaders Discuss Crisis

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-03-08T17:19:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/german-10-year-government-bonds-fall-report-may-show-factory-orders-grew.html
Greek 10-year bond yields and
credit-default swaps surged to a record as borrowing costs
increased at a debt sale and before European leaders begin
meetings aimed at containing the sovereign debt crisis.  Spanish bonds also slid as the government sold debt through
banks. Greek bond losses extended declines to a ninth day after
the nation’s credit rating was cut by Moody’s Investors Service
yesterday. Portuguese 10-year bonds fell for a second day before
a notes auction tomorrow. German 10-year bonds dropped amid
speculation the nation’s economic growth will add to pressure on
central bankers to increase  interest rates .  “There is quite a lot of peripheral supply that needs to
be digested and apparently we’re struggling to find more buying
interest at these levels,” said Marcel Bross, a fixed-income
strategist at Frankfurt-based Commerzbank AG. “We have these
important meetings coming up, where we see some potential for
disappointment.”  The yield on 10-year Greek bonds jumped as much as 52 basis
points to 12.85 percent, the most since Bloomberg began
collecting the data in 1988, with the increase in yields the
biggest since Oct. 27. It was at 12.84 percent as of 5:04 p.m.
in London. The 6.25 percent securities maturing in June 2020
fell 2.04, or 20.4 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,389) face amount, to
65.29.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the securities
instead of German bunds widened to as much as 956 basis points,
the most since Jan. 10. The euro fell 0.4 percent to $1.3912.  EU Summits  Credit-default swaps insuring Greek  government bonds  rose
five basis points to an all-time high 1,037 basis points,
meaning it costs $1.04 million annually to insure $10 million of
debt for five years. They ended the day seven basis points lower
at 1,025 basis points.  Greece sold 1.625 billion euros of 182-day bills at an
average yield of 4.75 percent, up from 4.64 percent at a
previous sale of the securities last month, the nation’s debt
management office said today. Investors bid for 3.59 times the
securities offered, down from 4.54 times at the earlier sale.
The debt office said it aimed to sell as much as 1.25 billion
euros of the bills. Foreign investors bought 31 percent of the
issue, debt chief Petros Christodoulou said in an e-mail.  Greek, Irish and Portuguese bonds are sliding before
meetings of policy makers culminating in a summit of EU nations
on March 24-25 that is intended to approve a package of measures
designed to calm the region’s bond markets. Austrian Chancellor
Werner Faymann told reporters today in Vienna that the nation
opposes easing conditions of Ireland and  Greece ’s bailouts.  Market Disappointment  Moody’s lowered Greece’s rating three steps to B1 yesterday
and said the risk of default is rising. EU Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said it’s necessary to leave open the
role of bondholders in a planned permanent debt-crisis mechanism
to guard against market “contagion.”  Two German states governed by  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
party have demanded a say in shaping the euro-area’s response to
the debt crisis, raising a potential hurdle to any attempt to
pass additional measures in parliament.  “The market is bracing itself for disappointment,” said
Mohit Kumar, a fixed-income strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in
London.  Spanish 10-year yields climbed nine basis points to 5.48
percent after the nation raised 4 billion euros by selling 15-
year bonds via banks. The notes were priced to yield 217 basis
points more than the benchmark mid-swaps rate, according to a
banker with direct knowledge of the deal.  Factory Orders  Ten-year Portuguese yields were seven basis points higher
at 7.63 percent. The country plans to issue up to 1 billion
euros of 2013 notes tomorrow.  The yield on similar-maturity Irish debt increased as much
as 18 basis points to 9.60 percent. The yield on the German
bund, the euro region’s benchmark government security, was three
basis points higher at 3.31 percent.  German factory orders, adjusted for seasonal variations and
inflation, rose 2.9 percent in January from the previous month,
exceeding a forecast for a 2.5 percent gain by economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said  Germany ’s “strong” economic recovery will continue this year,
and he doesn’t want to correct market expectations for as many
as three quarter-point increases in borrowing costs this year.  Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen raised its forecast for
German bund yields to 3.50 percent by “mid 2011” from 3
percent, economists Viola Stork and Ralf Umlauf said in an
investor report today, citing the prospect of higher interest
rates set by the  European Central Bank .  Diaspora Bonds  Germany is scheduled to sell 2 billion euros of 10-year
inflation-linked bonds tomorrow.  Greece plans to sell about $3 billion of bonds to retail
investors in the U.S., according to Greek Finance Ministry
documents. The government approved fees to be paid for U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission clearance for the sale, which
will be targeted mainly at people of Greek descent, up to a
nominal amount of $3 billion, according to a statement on the
government’s website. No further details were available.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Dobson in  London  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  