-- 
German Factory Orders Rose in January on Surging Domestic Demand

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-08T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/german-factory-orders-rose-in-january-on-surging-domestic-demand.html
German factory orders increased more
than economists forecast in January as domestic demand surged,
suggesting the recovery in  Europe ’s largest economy is
broadening.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
advanced 2.9 percent from December, when they fell 3.6 percent,
the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists forecast a
gain of 2.5 percent, the median of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey shows. In the year, orders rose 16 percent.    Germany ’s recovery is gaining a firmer footing as companies
boost domestic investment and hiring to meet export demand.
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said last month the economy may
expand 2.5 percent this year after record growth of 3.6 percent
in 2010.  “In the immediate future we’ll see robust growth and
strong momentum in German industry,” said  Andreas Rees , an
economist at UniCredit Group in Munich. “But through a slowdown
in  China  and the higher oil price, a moderate setback could be
on the way.”  Domestic factory orders jumped 4.5 percent from December
and foreign orders advanced 1.6 percent, today’s report showed.
Basic goods orders rose 4.6 percent, while orders for investment
goods and  consumer goods  advanced 2 percent and 0.8 percent
respectively.  “The trend in new orders continues to point upward,”
the ministry said in a statement. Orders for big-ticket items
were below average in January, it added.  Rising Costs  German business confidence unexpectedly rose to a record in
February as booming exports spurred hiring and consumer
spending. Investor sentiment also increased.  Volkswagen AG’s Audi division said today it will expand
production in emerging markets including China after rising
orders boosted earnings in 2010.  Audi plans to “keep expanding its model portfolio in the
coming years at an undiminished pace,” the carmaker said in a
statement.  Adidas AG (ADS) , the world’s second-largest sporting-goods
maker, on March 2 raised its earnings forecast for 2011, saying
growth was being driven by sales in China and other emerging
markets.  At the same time, Germany is facing higher imported
inflation, as global demand and unrest in the Middle East boost
commodity prices.    Daimler AG (DAI) , the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, and tiremaker  Continental AG (CON) , both expect higher prices for goods such as
steel and rubber to cut 700 million euros ($975 million dollars)
from earnings this year.  German inflation accelerated to 2.2 percent last month, the
fastest in more than two years.  Rising prices are a risk to the economic upswing, said
Jens-Oliver Niklasch, an economist at Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart. “But it would be much too dramatic
to say it is a fatal blow for the recovery.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  