-- 
Most German Stocks Advance; Deutsche Telekom Rises on T-Mobile Sale Talks

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 
2011-03-08T17:06:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/german-stocks-rise-led-by-carmakers-daimler-vw-wacker-chemie-advances.html
Most German stocks gained even as
European Central Bank council member  Axel Weber  signaled the ECB
may raise  interest rates  several times this year.  Deutsche Telekom AG increased 4 percent as the company held
talks to sell its T-Mobile USA unit.  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s
biggest chemical company, lost 2.1 percent as an industry union
demanded a pay increase for workers.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  was little changed, rising less than 0.1
percent, to 7,164.75 at the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The
benchmark gauge has rallied 3.6 percent this year as the German
economy grew and as corporate profits beat estimates. The
broader HDAX Index added 0.1 percent today.  “The rate hike looks imminent,” said  Steven Major , global
head of fixed income research at HSBC Holdings Plc, talking to
Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “On The Move.” It
“will probably come in April or May and then two or three more
afterwards,” he said.  Weber said the ECB has embarked on a normalization of
interest rates and he doesn’t want to correct market
expectations for as many as three quarter-point increases this
year.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet yesterday said that the
world’s central bankers are united in their aim to prevent
surging  oil prices  from fanning broader inflation.  Crude fell for the first time in three days in  New York 
after Kuwait’s Oil Minister confirmed that the Persian Gulf
country has held talks to boost production. Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries are holding “consultations” and
have yet to decide to raise production, Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al-Sabah said.  Greek Bonds  Stocks pared an earlier advance as Greek  government bonds 
slid, driving the yield on the 10-year security to the highest
since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1988. The yield
jumped as much as 45 basis points to 12.78 percent, while
credit-default swaps insuring Greek government bonds rose 5
basis points to an all-time high of 1,037.  German factory orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and
inflation, climbed 2.9 percent in January from December, when
they slid 3.6 percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said
today. Economists had forecast a gain of 2.5 percent, the median
of 35 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey shows. Over the year,
orders rose 16 percent.  Deutsche Telekom Surges    Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  rallied 4 percent to 10.01 euros. The
company has held talks to sell its T-Mobile USA unit to Sprint
Nextel Corp. in exchange for a major stake in the combined
entity, said people with knowledge of the matter.    Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s preferred shares gained 2.3 percent to
118.65 euros. Porsche SE, the holding company that owns 51
percent of Volkswagen’s common shares, yesterday recorded a
profit in its shortened 2010 business year on gains from VW and
profit from the Porsche sports-car business.  “The combination of recent share price correction and
still solid operating outlooks supports increasing exposure to
the German names in our view,” Philippe Houchois and David Lesne, analysts at UBS in London, wrote in a report to clients
today.  BASF lost 2.1 percent to 59.96 euros. German chemical
companies may face worker demonstrations over pay in a dispute
about the extent of economic recovery, Handelsblatt reported,
citing Peter Hausmann, an IG BCE labor-union board member.  The union is demanding a 7 percent wage increase for
550,000 workers in the  chemical industry , the newspaper said.
Regional negotiations have already started and countrywide talks
begin next week, Handelsblatt said.  Stratec Biomedical    Stratec Biomedical Systems AG (SBS)  tumbled 5.3 percent to 30.70
euros. The maker of blood analysis equipment reported full-year
net income of 13 million euros ($18.2 million), missing the 14.7
million-euro average of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Salzgitter dropped 2.3 percent to 55.69 euros, its fifth
loss, as WestLB AG cut the shares to “reduce” from “add.”
Germany’s second-largest steelmaker issued an earnings outlook
for 2011 that “is significantly below both our forecasts and
market expectations,” Ralf Doerper, analyst at WestLB wrote in
a note to customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  David Merritt  at   dmerritt1@bloomberg.net . 