-- 
Global Economy Must Cut Debt for Sustained Growth, Auvest Says

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-03-08T10:44:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/global-economy-must-cut-debt-for-sustained-growth-auvest-says.html
The global financial crisis can’t be
solved by taking on more loans and “significant debt
destruction” must occur before the world economy can return to
sustainable growth, a hedge fund manager said.  “The level of debt in the developed world is
unsustainable,” although the “massive government stimulus
seems to have created a moment of calm,”  Auvest Capital
Management Ltd.  said in a research report released at the Hedge
Funds World Middle East conference in Dubai today. Reducing
world debt is critical, which would need a correction in asset
prices and mass bankruptcies, Auvest said. Governments in
developed countries aren’t prepared to allow that, according to
the report.  The amount of marketable U.S. debt outstanding surpassed $9
trillion last month, with international buyers owning half the
treasury debt. Cumulative U.S. budget deficits will exceed $4
trillion through 2015, the White House estimates.  Asset prices across the world have been buoyed by the
increase in debt during the last decade and cheap money, the
report said. In the absence of real demand, the only way to
sustain growth and keep asset prices stable is to add more debt
and keep  interest rates  low, a strategy followed across the
world, it said. Attempts at reviving the global economy through
more debt will only make the problem bigger and the eventual
bust more painful, it said.  Auvest Capital was set up in 2008 by Humayun Shahryar, a
former executive director at Dubai-based Abraaj Capital Ltd.,
the Middle East’s biggest private equity company, and manages
about $100 million. The hedge fund follows a “global macro”
strategy and can invest across all asset classes and
geographies.  U.S. Debt  The U.S. federal government debt will reach 84.9 percent of
gross domestic product by 2020, according to a Bloomberg
Government study released yesterday. Government debt has risen
to 62.1 percent of GDP over the past decade from 34.7 percent
because growth hasn’t been large enough to offset budget
deficits, the study by Bloomberg economists said.  Liquidity induced inflation from the developed world’s
loose monetary policies will create social instability in
emerging markets and force defaults and bankruptcies, Auvest
said. Governments will realize that there is insufficient global
demand to create employment at home and simultaneously engage in
free trade, leading to a trade war and eventually a new monetary
system, the report forecast.  “The global economy that emerges toward the middle of this
decade will look very different from the one that entered the
crisis in 2008,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  