-- 
Goldman's Pariah Status Fades With BoE's Broadbent Appointment

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-03-08T05:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/goldman-s-pariah-status-fades-with-broadbent-s-bank-of-england-appointment.html
The Bank of England’s appointment of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Senior European Economist Ben Broadbent
to its Monetary Policy Committee shows governments are again
looking to the firm for top decision makers, less than a year
after it settled U.S. fraud claims.  Broadbent, who has worked at Goldman Sachs since 2000, will
replace  Andrew Sentance  at the end of May, the Treasury in
London said yesterday. He joins a panel that has split four ways
on policy for the first time since the central bank’s
independence in 1997.  Opposition parties last year pressed U.K. Prime Minister
Gordon Brown to suspend Goldman Sachs from government work after
the Securities and Exchange Commission sued the New York-based
company in April. Brown said at the time he was shocked by the
“moral bankruptcy” described in the complaint.  “I think this was much more unlikely to have happened six
or eight months ago,”  Steven Kaplan , a professor at the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business, said of
Broadbent’s appointment. In the intervening months, “the fact
that we haven’t seen anything else truly scandalous with them or
with any of the other top banks has definitely helped.”  Even the SEC has shown an interest in luring Goldman Sachs’
expertise. In January, it hired Eileen Rominger, who spent 11
years in the firm’s asset-management division, including as
global chief investment officer. She now heads the SEC’s
division of  investment management .  SEC Cases  In July, the firm paid $550 million to settle SEC civil
claims that it misled investors in a mortgage-linked investment
that was sold in 2007.  In a separate case last week, the agency accused Rajat K. Gupta, a former Goldman Sachs board member, of telling hedge-
fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam  about Warren Buffett’s
$5 billion investment in the bank in 2008 before the deal was
announced. Gupta and Rajaratnam deny the insider-trading
allegations. The firm wasn’t accused of wrongdoing.  Former Goldman Sachs employees hold key policy-setting
positions worldwide. New York Federal Reserve Bank President
William Dudley is the firm’s former chief U.S. economist. Bank
of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  is a former managing director.
Bank of Italy Governor Mario Draghi, the current frontrunner to
become the next president of the European Central Bank, was vice
chairman of the firm’s international arm.  Henry Paulson and Robert Rubin both headed the bank before
becoming Treasury secretaries, while other former leaders
include Stephen Friedman, who was an adviser to President George W. Bush, and Jon Corzine, who governed New Jersey.  Third on Panel  Broadbent is the third Goldman Sachs employee to join the
Monetary Policy Committee. Former U.K. rate-setters David Walton
and Sushil Wadhwani had Goldman Sachs on their resumes before
joining the central bank. Broadbent also has worked previously
at the Treasury and the  Bank of England .  “The Chancellor appointed him because he was the
outstanding candidate from the field,” said a Treasury
spokesman, who declined to be named to comply with U.K. civil-
service rules.    Stephen Cohen , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment.  “It makes sense for the government to hire the best and
the brightest,” said James Angel, a finance professor at
Georgetown University’s business school in Washington. The
public doesn’t typically hold ill will for long against
individual firms, he said. “Most people outside of the
financial markets don’t really know the difference between
Goldman Sachs, Countrywide and their friendly neighborhood local
bank,” he said.  JPMorgan Chase    Wall Street  has provided other executives for government
positions this year. In January, President  Barack Obama  named
William Daley, 62, a  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executive and former
commerce secretary, as his chief of staff.  Goldman Sachs has taken steps to restore its reputation and
win the trust of clients.  In May, Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein
established a Business Standards Committee to examine the firm’s
responsibilities to clients, review how it identifies and
manages conflicts of interest, and consider whether financial
reporting and public disclosure could improve. The committee
also looked at whether the firm was properly selling complex
products, adequately training employees and whether companywide
operating committees could become more effective.  The panel issued a report in January with 39 proposals.  ‘Reputational Excellence’  “We believe the recommendations in this report represent a
fundamental re-commitment of Goldman Sachs to our clients and to
reputational excellence in everything the firm does,”
Blankfein, 56, said in the statement announcing the report.  Broadbent will join  Adam Posen ,  Martin Weale  and David Miles as the fourth external member of the rate-setting panel.
Governor  Mervyn King ,  Paul Tucker , Charles Bean,  Paul Fisher  and
Spencer Dale are the internal members. At the last meeting,
Sentance voted to increase the benchmark interest rate by 50
basis points from a record low of 0.5 percent. Weale and Dale
called for a 25 basis-point increase, while the remaining six
opted to maintain the current rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 