-- 
Goldman Hedge Fund Favors Short-Dated Junk Debt on U.S. Economic Recovery

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-03-08T03:22:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/goldman-sachs-hedge-fund-favors-short-dated-junk-bonds-amid-u-s-recovery.html
Liberty Harbor, the $500 billion  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  debt hedge fund, favors shorter-dated  junk bonds  that trade cheaper than longer-dated notes as the U.S.
economic recovery boosts companies’ ability to repay debt.  “There’s better visibility of issuers’ credit quality in
short-dated credits because we’re predicting cash flows over the
next few years, not over the next 10 years,” David Frechette,
senior portfolio manager at Liberty Harbor, a unit of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management, said at a seminar in Singapore. “We’re
selectively long short-dated obligations of high-yield issuers
and prefer to be short the high-yield market itself.”  The default rate on speculative-grade U.S. corporate debt
fell to 2.75 percent in January, the lowest since before the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 shuttered
credit markets,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a Feb. 23 report.
Global junk bonds returned 15.2 percent last year and 3.63
percent this year as the economic recovery gathered pace, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  High-yield U.S. bond sales climbed to $66.5 billion this
year, the busiest start to a year on record and almost double
the $35.5 billion raised in the same period of 2010, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. High-yield bonds, also known as
speculative-grade or junk, rank below Baa3 at Moody’s Investors
Service and BBB- at S&P.  ‘Structurally Cheap’  “We’re attracted to the short-dated part of the high-yield
market because we believe it trades structurally cheap to the
broader market for technical reasons,” Frechette said, citing
hospital operator HCA Inc. as an example.  Investors led by KKR & Co. and Bain Capital LLC bought
Nashville, Tennessee-based HCA five years ago in a $33 billion
leveraged buyout. The company’s debt was reorganized and it now
plans to sell stock valued at as much as $4.28 billion in what
would be the largest U.S. private equity-backed initial public
offering on record, filings show.  “HCA’s shorter-dated secured bonds trade at a wider spread
than the longer-dated bonds, despite what Liberty Harbor sees as
much higher  credit quality ,” New York-based Frechette said.  HCA sold 9.625 percent secured pay-in-kind toggle notes in
2007 that it has a  call option  to redeem in November, Bloomberg
data show. Investors demand 577 basis points in extra yield to
own the notes instead of Treasuries, according to Maxim Group
prices on Bloomberg. HCA’s $1.53 billion in 7.75 percent senior
unsecured notes redeemable in 2015 trade at a 357 basis-point
spread, Maxim prices show.  Pricing disparities occur because index-linked fund
managers have “a bias to own longer duration new issues,”
Frechette said. “If eight- or 10-year paper is coming to market,
they tend to create capacity by selling the short-dated part of
their portfolio.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in  Singapore  at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  