-- 
Google, Infosys Battle `Daughterly Guilt' to Lure Indian Women

-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 
2011-03-08T00:09:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/google-infosys-fight-daughterly-guilt-to-lure-indian-women.html
When Preethi Mohan Rao quit her job
following the birth of her first child in 2006, the 28-year-old
tax professional was prepared to put her career on hold
indefinitely.  Her bosses at  Ernst & Young’s Global Shared Services  in  India  would have none of it. As E&Y’s Indian operations grew to
almost 4,000 employees by 2010 from about 200 in 2002, the
company accomplished something rare in India: having an equal
number of male and female workers, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its March 7 issue.  The company had spent thousands of dollars training Rao and
wasn’t about to give up on its investment. The human resources
department kept in touch, calling monthly to see how she was
doing. They enticed her back with a flexible schedule and a
nursery on the ground floor of the company’s glass-and-steel
building in  Bangalore . At first, Rao worked two hours a day,
then four, and after a few weeks went back to full time.  “In spite of all the time we spent transitioning, I held
on to all my projects,” said Rao, now a manager.  That kind of pursuit of an employee may be uncommon in the
U.S., with unemployment at 9 percent. Not in India, where the
economy has grown 8.5 percent on average for the past five years
and companies face chronic talent shortages. Keeping female
employees has proven difficult in a male-dominated society that
often frowns on women working outside the home.  ‘Daughterly Guilt’  At 34.2 percent, India’s rate of female participation in
the  labor force  is the lowest among the so-called BRIC countries,
or  Brazil ,  Russia , India and  China , according to United Nations
statistics. Women make up 42 percent of college graduates in
India, yet even those with diplomas are expected to let their
careers take a back seat to caring for husband, children, and
elderly parents.  “The measures of daughterly guilt are much higher in
Indian women than in the West,” says Sylvia Ann Hewlett,
president of the  Center for Work-Life Policy , a  Manhattan  think
tank, who headed a study last year on the challenges Indian
women face in the workplace. “And since taking care of elderly
parents usually becomes a reality later in their careers, it
takes them out of the workplace just when they should be
entering management roles.”  Google, Infosys  To counter these challenges,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has taxis on call
for employees, a particular draw for women who may need to rush
home to care for a sick family member. German drugmaker
Boehringer Ingelheim Gmbh, mindful that families frown on young
women traveling alone, will pay for an employee to bring her
mother along on longer trips. Indian outsourcing company  Wipro
Ltd. (WPRO)  runs on-site day camps during school holidays in the spring.  Infosys Ltd. offers its female employees sabbaticals,
extended maternity leave, and enhanced training when they come
back to the office. That has helped boost the percentage of
female workers returning after childbirth to about 88 percent
from about a third in 2006. Infosys also tracks women after they
return to make sure they are being used effectively and not
back-benched.  “A lot of men believe maternity is a disease, and we have
to teach them,” said  Nandita Gurjar , senior vice president for
human resources at Infosys.  E&Y says keeping women on staff requires more than just
making them happy -- the company works on their families, too.
It sponsors family visits where parents and in-laws crowd the
office, shaking hands with E&Y’s India chief executive officer
and other high-level managers. The purpose of the exercise is to
help them understand what their daughters do at the company and
that their work is valued.  Mahendra Jain, CEO of E&Y’s Global Shared Services in India,
said the company’s push for gender diversity isn’t profit-driven.  “If you asked me if there’s a bottom line benefit to
having an equal number of male and female employees, I would say
the answer is no,” Jain said. “But it’s something we have held
on to as part of our culture, and it’s always been part of how
we do business here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in  New Delhi  at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bret Okeson at 
 bokeson@bloomberg.net  