-- 
Greenspan Grapples for Growth With Ayn Rand’s Help: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 
2011-03-08T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/greenspan-grapples-for-stimulus-with-ayn-rand-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Government squeezes out growth.  That’s the underlying conclusion of an academic paper by
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan . The article,
which will appear this month in International Finance, a journal
edited by my  Council on Foreign Relations  colleague Benn Steil,
reviews a technical datum called corporate long-term fixed-asset
investment.  Greenspan posits that failure by companies to choose to
raise levels of such investment since 2008 is evidence of their
concern about an unpredictable and overly activist federal
government. U.S. policy makers are still using suspect models to
plan and forecast, he says.  Then Greenspan casts doubt on whether those models are of
any use, given past performance: “How can the internal
structure of models that have such poor forecasting records be
informative on the size and sign of coefficients and impact
multipliers?”  In policy land, the fact that he would be even this bold is
news. Greenspan is famous for equivocating. Still, this
technical paper may not be the right medium for his message.
Especially for those of us who think the verb “hamper” doesn’t
quite capture the way government rolls and flattens the economy.  Fortunately Greenspan’s message will soon be delivered
in a more accessible medium, and another Greenspan-related
production, to boot. That medium is “Atlas Shrugged: Part I,”
a movie set for release in the U.S. April 15. The film adapts
“Atlas Shrugged,” a steamy libertarian novel featuring the
ultimate corporate long-term illiquid investment, railroads.  Greenspan With  Rand   As Greenspan notes in his autobiography, the author of
“Atlas Shrugged,” philosopher Ayn Rand, influenced him heavily
when he was a young economist. Greenspan did serious time in the
author’s inner circle when she was working on “Atlas
Shrugged,” an epic about how government takes down capitalism.
According to Rand’s archivist, the future Fed chief sat in on
the sessions when she read aloud her drafts.  In the story, an innovative steel executive, Henry Rearden,
develops an alloy for track that will lay the path for a
struggling railroad, Taggart Transcontinental, to speed ahead.
But cogs within government and Taggart neither see the value in
the new metal nor want to. Even James Taggart, the foolish head
of the railroad, doesn’t appreciate what investment can do for
the company. Only his brilliant, underappreciated sister Dagny
sees the potential.  So far only the  trailer  of the movie is available to the
public. It’s been viewed more than three quarters of a million
times on YouTube alone. Between this available footage and the
book, everyone can get a clearer understanding of what Greenspan
is getting at in his paper. Putting the document side by side
with excerpts from “Atlas Shrugged” is revealing.  Greenspan: “The defining characteristic of the tepid
recovery in the  United States  that followed the post-Lehman
freefall is the degree of  risk aversion  to investment in
illiquid fixed capital unmatched, in peacetime, since 1940.”  Executive to boss in “Atlas Shrugged”: “Jim, there isn’t
going to be any new track.”  Greenspan: “Most stimulus programs seek those
appropriations and tax cuts most likely to be quickly spent. But
if they were all completely spent, presumably the ideal, then of
necessity saving would be zero. Yet in that case no production
would have been diverted to foster innovations that increase
output per hour and standards of living.”  Dagny Taggart: “If the road could afford it, I would scrap
every piece of rail over the whole system and replace it with
Rearden Metal. All of it needs replacing. None of it will last
much longer. But we can’t afford it.”  Greenspan: “Henceforth, it will be exceedingly difficult
to contain the range of possible activism. Promises of future
government restraint will not be believed by markets. This must
significantly further raise negative tail risk.”  “Atlas Shrugged”: Train wreck.  Greenspan: “The ‘wealth effect’ could effectively
substitute private ‘stimulus’ for public.”  “Atlas Shrugged”: Sex scene in tunnel, delivered via
verb-free expressionistic clauses: “Then, the sparkle of her
diamond clip against the trembling copper of his hair.”  Devoted Randians and those disappointed by the monetary
policy of Greenspan and his successor,  Ben Bernanke , point out
yet another “Atlas Shrugged” scene: the famous money speech of
Francisco d’Anconia: “Whenever destroyers appear among men,
they start by destroying money, for money is men’s protection
and the base of moral existence. Destroyers seize gold and leave
to its owners a counterfeit pile of paper.”  The larger relevance, however, is that a former Fed
chairman and other thinkers are now highlighting the cost of
government activism in new ways.  Gillian Tett, the editor of the U.S. edition of the
Financial Times, calls our era the “Ad Hoc Age.” Stanford
University economist  John Taylor  says our troubles began with a
“Great Deviation” from monetary policy, which he dates to the
period when Greenspan ran the Fed. Robert Higgs, a scholar at
the Independent Institute, calls the problem “Regime
Uncertainty” and has been writing about it for decades.  What has been missing is a popular vehicle to barrel
through and make explicit what many Americans -- right, left or
center -- already know intuitively or mathematically. All of
which makes you wonder whether the release date for “Atlas
Shrugged” will come soon enough.    Amity Shlaes , a senior fellow in economic history at the
Council on Foreign Relations and author of “The Forgotten Man:
A New History of the Great Depression,” is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 