-- 
Greek Bondholders May Face 50 Percent Loss in Restructuring, Investors Say

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-03-08T12:19:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/greek-bondholders-may-face-50-percent-loss-in-restructuring-investors-say.html
  Greece  will inflict losses of about
50 percent on bondholders and extend maturities by five to 10
years as it reduces its debt load in a series of restructurings,
according to investors.  “The first rescheduling won’t be enough and they will have
to come back,” said Louis Gargour, chief investment officer at
hedge fund LNG Capital LLP in London and the panelist at the
Euromoney Bond Investor Congress in London today who forecast
the 50 percent loss figure. “The first problem is the amount of
debt, the second is it’s not sustainable.”  Almost all the 400 people present at the panel expect a
European nation to restructure in the “next couple of years,”
according to a show of hands during the session. Credit-default
swaps on Greek government notes imply a 58 percent probability
the nation will default within five years, assuming a 40 percent
recovery on the debt, according to CMA.  It now costs a record 1,037 basis points, or $1.04 million,
annually to insure $10 million of debt for five years. Greek
two-year notes trade at about 79.8 cents on the euro to yield
16.2 percent while 10-year bonds are quoted at 66.7 cents.  Losses from sovereign defaults have ranged from 15 percent
to 75 percent, said George Magnus, senior economic adviser at
UBS AG and a member of the panel.  “All restructurings begin as liquidity crises,” said
Magnus. “The whole idea of debt restructuring has to be
embraced at some point. The sequencing has to start with
strengthening the banks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  