-- 
Texas Instruments Narrows Range of First-Quarter Profit, Sales Forecasts

-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-03-08T23:25:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/ti-narrows-quarterly-profit-forecast-range-to-56-cents-to-60-cents-a-share.html
  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the second-
largest U.S. chipmaker, narrowed its first-quarter forecast
range, predicting sales and profit in line with analysts’
projections.  First-quarter net income will be 56 cents to 60 cents a
share on sales of $3.34 billion to $3.48 billion, Dallas-based
Texas Instruments said today in a statement. That compares with
profit of 59 cents on revenue of $3.4 billion, the average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. On Jan. 24, the
company had said profit will be 54 cents to 62 cents a share,
while sales will be $3.27 billion to $3.55 billion.  Analog-chip makers are getting more orders than they are
filling, a sign demand for products is rising, Christopher Danely, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  San Francisco ,
said in a note to clients. Texas Instruments is the biggest
maker of analog chips, used in everything from military
equipment to washing machines, making its earnings performance a
window into demand across the electronics industry.  Texas Instruments slipped 1 percent in extended trading
after the projections were released. It had gained 38 cents, or
1.1 percent, to $35.86 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange.  “I still think things are set for some upside at the end of
the quarter,” said Doug Freedman, a San Francisco-based analyst
for Gleacher & Co. He recommends buying the stock and doesn’t
own any shares.  Tablets, TVs  While sales of chips for tablet computers have been strong,
those for game consoles and televisions were slower, Ron Slaymaker, the company’s vice president of  investor relations ,
said on a conference call today. The industrial market,
including for automobiles, has also performed well, he said.  Chief Executive Officer  Rich Templeton  is getting the
company out of the market for digital-signal processors that
manage radio functions in mobile phones -- an area Texas
Instruments once dominated. The focus now is on analog chips,
where the company expects to win more orders and grow faster,
Templeton has said.  Among U.S. chipmakers, Texas Instruments ranks second to  Intel Corp. (INTC)  in annual revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  