-- 
Iberdrola Bids $3.5 Billion to Buy Out Investors in Renewable-Energy Unit

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-03-08T18:26:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/iberdrola-bids-3-5-billion-for-shares-in-renewable-energy-unit.html
  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  bid 2.5 billion euros
($3.5 billion) to buy out minority investors in its Renovables
unit after they lost money since it took the world’s largest
owner of wind parks public in 2007.  The Bilbao-based utility will pay 0.499 share for each in
its publicly traded  Iberdrola Renovables SA (IBR)  unit, a 10 percent
premium to yesterday’s closing price, the parent company said
today in a regulatory filing.  Spain’s largest power company is taking advantage of a 48
percent decline in its unit since the initial public offer to
consolidate ownership at a cheap price, said Francisco Salvador,
a strategist at Madrid-based FGA-MG Valores.  “The level at which it was trading was absurd,” Salvador
said in an interview. “Since the market wasn’t recognizing its
value, the deal has a certain logic.”  Clean-power generators have lost attraction after  Spain 
rewrote subsidy laws for existing plants and rival installations
burning fossil fuels in the U.S. were boosted by increased shale
gas supplies. Renovables last week slashed its planned
investments in new capacity globally by more than one-third
through 2012 to preserve its profit margins.  Iberdrola cited shifts in energy prices, slower progress in
regulation and reduced investment opportunities in Spain and the
U.S. as the reasons for the deal in a presentation filed with
the stock market regulator. The transaction will dilute earnings
per share by 1.5 percent next year and will boost profit growth,
it said.  Dividend Option  The company said it will support an extraordinary dividend
of 40 percent of the 2.978 euros value of the shares implied by
the deal. Should Renovables directors opt for the full dividend
payment, Iberdrola will pay 0.299 of its own shares and may
raise 246.6 million euros of new capital to finance the deal.  Iberdrola sold Renovables shares to investors for 5.30
euros in a 2007 initial public offering, and the stock changed
hands 2.74 euros before trading was suspended today. That gave
the company a market capitalization 1 percent less than the book
value of its business, according to Bloomberg data.    Iberdrola Renovables  was undervalued, but the strategy
employed to depend alone on parent company funding was not one
in which the market was confident,” said Rupesh Madlani, a
renewable energy analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  