-- 
Libyan Rebels Appeal to UN for Recognition, Protection Against Loyalists

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-03-08T22:40:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/libyan-rebels-appeal-to-un-for-protection-formal-recognition.html
Leaders of Libya’s rebellion have
appealed to the  United Nations  for recognition and protection
against forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi .  “We request from the international community to fulfill
its obligations to protect the Libyan people from any further
genocide and crimes against humanity without any direct military
intervention on Libyan soil,” the Interim Transitional National
Council said in a March 5 letter to the UN General Assembly.  The council, which is also asking the  Arab League  and other
international organizations for support, is based in the
captured city of Benghazi.  The letter may form the basis of a challenge to the UN
ambassador appointed by Qaddafi after his top two envoys to the
world body broke with the regime last month. Qaddafi named Ali
Abdussalam Treki, a loyalist who served as president of the
General Assembly from June 2009 to June 2010.  The interim council “derives its legitimacy from the city
councils who run the liberated cities, and who had been formed
by the revolution,” its letter to the UN says. “The council
declares that it is the sole representative of all  Libya ” and
is “waiting” for delegations from Tripoli, the capital still
in Qaddafi’s control, to join it.  ‘Defenseless Protesters’  The letter portrays the opposition as “defenseless
protesters” squaring off against “the tyrant regime’s
mercenaries and private battalions.”  The council said it has representatives from the cities of
Misurata, Zentan, Zawya, Zwara, Nalout, El-Jabel El-Gharbi, Gaat
and Kufra, and others whose “names will not be declared for
safety reasons till the liberation of all Libya.” The letter
lists Mustafa Abdeljeleel as the head of the council and names
persons responsible for military and foreign affairs.  Qaddafi’s foreign ministry sent a letter to the General
Assembly rescinding the appointments of Ambassador Mohammed Shalgham and Deputy Ambassador Ibrahim Dabbashi. They abandoned
the regime and supported the Security Council resolution
imposing an asset freeze and travel ban on Qaddafi, his
immediate family and top aides.  “We’re studying it; it’s complicated,” Martin Nesirky,
chief spokesman for UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, said last
week of the letters from the Qaddafi regime. “It’s not a normal
set of circumstances.”  As a recognized member of the UN, Libya has the right to
name its own representatives, Nesirky said.  When there is a challenge, such as in this case, a
committee of the General Assembly will adjudicate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  