-- 
Oil Tanker Booking Activity Dries Up for Libya, Biggest Shipbroker Says

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-03-08T16:41:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/libyan-oil-tanker-bookings-stopped-amid-fighting-biggest-shipbroker-says.html
Tanker bookings to pick up Libyan
oil cargoes have ended, the world’s largest shipbroker said, as
an uprising against leader Muammar Qaddafi disrupts supply.  As much as 1 million barrels of Libya’s 1.6 million barrels
of daily production is being lost, the  International Energy
Agency  said March 4.  Europe  is the largest importer of the crude
and at least seven oil companies’ output in the country,
Africa’s third-largest producer, has been disrupted.  “There’s no real activity being concluded from Libya,”
Bob Knight, head of tankers at London-based  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , said
by phone. “Activity has dried up as far as we are concerned.”  Forward freight agreements, used to bet on or hedge future
shipping costs, jumped 40 percent to the equivalent of $34,118 a
day last week, according to Imarex ASA. Traders are speculating
that fewer Libyan cargoes would mean extra shipments from the
Persian Gulf to Europe, increasing journey lengths and tying up
ships for longer periods.  Crude oil traded in  New York  jumped 15 percent this year
because of concern that protests erupting across the Middle East
and northern African will disrupt more supply. There have been
riots in Bahrain, Egypt, Oman and Yemen, which all share land or
sea borders with  Saudi Arabia , the world’s second-biggest oil
producer behind  Russia .  Oil Ports  Libya’s oil ports of Ras Lanuf and Brega were shut because
of fighting between rebels and forces loyal to Qaddafi, Al
Arabiya television reported yesterday. Qaddafi’s air force today
resumed bombing around Ras Lanuf, which has a tanker terminal
and Libya’s biggest refinery, the  Associated Press  reported.  Tanker rates for shipping 600,000-barrel cargoes of crude
across the Mediterranean Sea fell 12 percent to 125.83 industry
standard Worldscale points, according to the London-based Baltic
Exchange. Owners’ returns from such shipments plunged 29 percent
to $18,951 a day.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a metric ton, are revised
annually by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect
changing fuel costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  Charter rates on the industry’s benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-
Japan route jumped 6.9 percent today to 69.22 Worldscale points.
Returns gained 23 percent to $29,647 a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  