-- 
Icahn's Activist Funds Return Money to Outside Investors After Six Years

-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 
2011-03-08T22:36:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/icahn-s-activist-funds-to-return-fee-paying-capital-to-outside-investors.html
Billionaire  Carl Icahn  will return
all the money managed for outside investors in his  hedge funds ,
ending a six-year experiment in which he sought to use their
cash to gain influence over companies he targeted for change.  Icahn, who buys stakes in companies he considers to be
underperforming and then pushes for change, cited concerns about
the economy and unrest in the Middle East, according to a client
letter filed today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Investors had already withdrawn much of their
capital from Icahn’s hedge funds, leaving just $1.76 billion of
fee-paying assets in the $7 billion funds.  “While we are not forecasting renewed market dislocation,
this possibility cannot be dismissed,” Icahn said in the
letter. “Given the rapid market run-up over the past 2 years
and our ongoing concerns about the economic outlook, and recent
political tensions in the Middle East, I do not wish to be
responsible to limited partners through another possible market
crisis.”  Icahn joins hedge fund managers  Stanley Druckenmiller  and
Chris Shumway in returning outside capital and focusing on
managing his own money. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
declined 1.6 percent from a two-year high on Feb. 18, as unrest
in the Middle East pushed  oil prices  higher and fueled concerns
the economic recovery may slow.  Icahn, 75, who has made activist investments at companies
such as Mentor Graphics Corp. and Lions Gate Entertainment
Corp., said he doesn’t plan to sell any securities, using cash
on hand and existing lines of credits to finance the return of
capital.  ‘Corny’  His funds produced annual returns of 11 percent before
expenses from inception in November 2004 through the end of last
year, according to a separate filing today with the SEC. The  S&P
500  returned 3.9 percent in the period. Icahn’s funds lost 36
percent in 2008, the worst year on record for hedge funds.  “While it may sound ‘corny’ to some, the losses that were
incurred by investors in our funds in 2008 bothered me a great
deal more, in many respects, than my own losses,” Icahn said in
the letter.  Druckenmiller, a former trader for  George Soros  who rose to
fame in 1992 with a $10 billion bet that the  Bank of England 
would be forced to devalue the pound, said last year he’s
returning outside money in his Duquesne Capital Management LLC.
He’d been worn down by the stress of trying to maintain one of
the best trading records in the industry while managing an
“enormous amount of capital,” Druckenmiller, 57, told
investors in August.  Shumway  Chris Shumway, an alumnus of  Julian Robertson ’s Tiger
Management LLC, said last month he’ll return client capital in
his $8 billion Shumway Capital Partners LLC by March 31.
Shumway, 45, who started the Greenwich, Connecticut, firm with
$70 million in 2002 and has produced average annual returns of
17 percent before fees, will continue to manage money for
himself and his employees.  Icahn said one reason for the withdrawals his funds have
seen in the past years was that he didn’t block redemptions
during the 2008 crisis, when most investors sought liquidity.  The funds earned gross returns of about 8.7 percent during
the first two months of this year, according to the investor
letter. Icahn didn’t return a telephone message seeking comment.  Starting in April, outside investors in the funds will
receive cash based on the value of investments as of March 31,
according to the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  