-- 
Iceland Economy Contracts on Imports, Government Spending

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-03-08T09:55:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/iceland-economy-contracts-on-imports-government-spending-1-.html
Iceland’s economy contracted in the
fourth quarter as the government spent less and imports grew,
offsetting gains in investment and exports.  Gross domestic product shrank 1.5 percent from the third
quarter after expanding a revised 2.2 percent in the previous
period, the Reykjavik-based  statistics office  said in a
statement on its website today. Output was unchanged from a year
earlier, the office said. The economy contracted 3.5 percent
last year, it said.  The $12 billion economy hit bottom in the middle of last
year after the fallout from its 2008 banking meltdown stymied
investment and demand. Still, the government’s decision two
years ago to let lenders fail and force losses onto investors
instead of taxpayers may allow Iceland to recover faster than
some debt-stricken euro members such as Ireland as exports pick
up and households start to spend, according to Nobel Prize-
winning economist  Paul Krugman .  “The contraction is greater than most people
anticipated,” said Hogni Haraldsson, an economist with  IFS
Consulting  in Reykjavik, by phone.    Government spending  fell 0.5 percent, while fixed
investment grew 14.9 percent and exports rose 3 percent. Still,
a 10 percent increase in imports kept the overall contribution
from trade negative, the office said. On an annual basis, fixed
investment slumped 8.1 percent, it said.  “The contraction in investments and private consumption is
staggering,” Haraldsson said. “I don’t think investments and
private consumption can get any lower.”  Unemployment  The north Atlantic island’s jobless rate rose to 8.5
percent in January, as the number of unemployed people reached
14,688, according to Iceland’s  Directorate of Labor . The office
estimates more people registered as unemployed in February,
sending the rate as high as 8.9 percent.  Iceland needs to pass a depositor claims accord with the
U.K. and  Netherlands  before it can consider removing capital
controls imposed following its banking collapse, the government
has said. Icelanders vote on the so-called Icesave bill, named
after the high-yielding internet accounts offered by Landsbanki
Islands hf before its failure, on April 9. Most polls show a
majority of voters will back the accord.  More than 350,000 British and Dutch depositors risked
losing their savings when Landsbanki failed with the rest of
Iceland’s over-leveraged banking system more than two years ago.  Key Factor  “One of the key factors to resurrecting the economy is the
approval of Icesave,” said Economy Minister Arni Pall Arnason
in a March 3 interview. “Without that, we’re facing a continued
weak growth, high unemployment and a weak real value of the
krona. That all translates into weak purchasing power. This is a
very conservative assessment.”  Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir struck an accord with
the British and Dutch governments in December on settling the
claims. That bill was passed by a two-thirds majority in
parliament last month before being blocked by President Olafur R. Grimsson.  A Feb. 25 Frettabladid poll put voter support of
the bill at 61.3 percent.  The collapse of Landsbanki, Kaupthing Bank hf and Glitnir
Bank hf precipitated an 80 percent decline in the krona against
the euro offshore. The currency has been protected by  capital
controls  since the end of 2008. Arnason warned last week that
some form of capital controls may have to stay in place until
the island is on track for euro adoption.  The economy will expand 2.8 percent this year, 3.2 percent
in 2012 and 3.4 percent in 2013, the  central bank  estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  