-- 
Impax, Hudson Clean Energy Join Investors Suing Spain on Solar Subsidy Cut

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-03-08T17:51:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/impax-hudson-clean-energy-join-investors-suing-spain-on-solar-subsidy-cut.html
  Impax Asset Management Group Plc (IPX) ,
Hudson Clean Energy Partners and HGCapital are among at least 15
international investors suing the Spanish government over
retroactive cuts to the country’s solar power subsidies.  The companies have invested more than 4 billion euros ($5.6
billion) in Spanish solar photovoltaic projects and are seeking
reparations under the Energy Charter Treaty, the law firm  Allen
& Overy  that’s representing the fund managers said today in an
e-mailed statement. They didn’t specify how much damages they’re
seeking. Two calls to  Spain ’s industry ministry today weren’t
answered.  The government on Dec. 23 issued a decree that cut
subsidies for existing solar power plants, which industry
executives and investors say should have been guaranteed for 25
years under a 2007 law. Today’s suit follows the Jan. 12
announcement by the Photovoltaic Business Association lobbying
group that it would challenge the cuts in the  Supreme Court .  “The changes that Spain has made to the PV sector will
cause substantial harm to these investors,” Stephen Jagusch,
international arbitration partner at Allen & Overy, said in the
statement. “Spain’s actions appear clearly inconsistent with
the investor protections afforded by the Energy Charter Treaty,
which is why we and the investors believe there is very strong
case for compensation.”  The  Energy Charter Treaty  entered into force in 1998 and
binds 51 nations to common rules on energy markets.  London-based Impax and HGCapital and Teaneck, New Jersey-
based investor Hudson were joined by other investors in suing
the government. They include AES  Solar Energy Ltd. (SLRE) , Ampere
Equity Fund, Element Power, KGAL GmbH &Co. KG and Foresight
Group LLP, according to today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  