-- 
Impala Agrees to Mine North Part of Royal Bafokeng's Boschkoppie Operation

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-03-08T15:30:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/impala-agrees-to-mine-north-part-of-royal-bafokeng-s-boschkoppie-operation.html
  Royal Bafokeng Platinum Ltd. (RBP) , the
South African producer of the metal, said it agreed the main
commercial terms of a deal that will allow  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the world’s second-largest producer, to mine part
of Royal Bafokeng’s reserves.  “It will give Impala the Merensky ounces they need” while
contributing “some nice  cash flow ” to Royal Bafokeng, Chief
Financial Officer Martin Prinsloo said in an interview today.
Royal Bafokeng, based in Johannesburg, will get a royalty of
17.5 percent of revenue from sales of the metal, according to a
 presentation  posted on its website.  Impala will access the ore from the northern parts of Royal
Bafokeng’s Boschkoppie reserves from Impala’s own Number 20
shaft, Prinsloo said. There is scope to do further deals in the
future, he said. The company, 12.6 percent owned by  Anglo
Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the largest producer, agreed last year to give
Impala access to its South Shaft in return for royalties.  Royal Bafokeng will use the income to help fund its
Styldrift 1 expansion project, which aims to boost production to
611,000 ounces of platinum group metals a year by the end of
2017, from 288,100 ounces last year. The project will cost less
than the last estimate of 11.8 billion rand ($1.7 billion),
Prinsloo said, declining to be more specific.  Shares in Royal Bafokeng fell 90 cents, or 1.4 percent, to
62.95 rand at the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg, giving it a
value of 10.3 billion rand. Shares in the company have fallen 3
percent from the close of trade on Nov. 8, when the company
started trading shares on the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  