-- 
Property Loan Entrants Won’t Plug Funding Gap, Savills Says

-- B y   T o m   B i l l
-- 
2011-03-08T09:25:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/increase-in-lenders-to-real-estate-ventures-not-enough-to-plug-funding-gap.html
The biggest lenders to commercial
real estate aren’t lending enough to make up for an overall debt
funding gap, according to broker  Savills Plc. (SVS)   The top 16 lenders over the last six months, which each
lent more than 75 million pounds ($122 million), included seven
new entrants such as Deka Bank Deutsche Girozentrale,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and insurer MetLife Inc. Savills has published the
list twice a year since 2000 and doesn’t provide the total lent.  “The new names appearing in the market are encouraging,”
said William Newsom, U.K. head of valuation at Savills. “But
for the most part they remain on the periphery of the market and
collectively they are not making up for the reduced activities
of existing players.”  Europe’s banks have curbed property loans after incurring
476.2 billion euros ($663.4 billion) of losses since the third
quarter of 2007 from the financial crisis and ensuing property
slump, according to Bloomberg calculations. The Property
Industry Alliance group told the  Bank of England  in January that
a 34.4 billion-pound shortfall to refinance debt due in the next
four years could trigger a second slump in the value of property
outside of the U.K.’s most attractive locations.  More insurers may join MetLife as property lenders after
the introduction of capital adequacy rules known as Solvency II
which makes real-estate debt more attractive by lowering the
amount of provisions insurers need to set aside against their
holdings.  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) ,  Axa SA (CS)  and Prudential Plc’s
M&G unit may step up lending, Newsom said.  “Insurers are looking very seriously at property lending
but have been quite slow coming forward,” Newsom said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Bill in  London  at   tbill2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  