-- 
India Aims to Double Milk Output Growth, Become `Major Player'

-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-03-08T00:36:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/india-aims-to-double-milk-output-growth-become-major-player-in-dairy.html
  India , the biggest milk producer and
consumer, is seeking to double output growth to become a “major
player” globally and gain from rising prices, according to the
world’s largest dairy group by members.  The country expects to boost output by 10 percent annually
in two to three years, R.S. Sodhi, managing director of  Gujarat
Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd. , said in an interview
yesterday. Production likely expanded 5 percent to 118 million
metric tons in the 12 months ended Feb. 28, he said.  Milk futures traded in  Chicago  jumped 15 percent last month
following a 26 percent advance in January, the most since March
2004, and whole-milk powder climbed to an all-time high in its
biweekly auction, Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the biggest
dairy exporter, said March 1. Fonterra Chief Executive Officer
Andrew Ferrier last month said milk prices may remain at least
50 percent above their historical averages in the long term,
driven by strong demand in  Asia  and tight international supply.  “If productivity increases, we can be a major player in
the world dairy trade,” said Sodhi, whose group in the western
Indian state of Gujarat produced 3.3 billion liters in 2009-2010
from 2.9 million farmers. “The potential is immense.”  Powder gained 15 percent to $4,958 a ton from two weeks
earlier, the highest level from the near-term contract since
auctions began in July 2008, according to Fonterra, which
accounts for 40 percent of the global trade in dairy products.
Volatility is expected to remain after prices fell from their
peak of about $5,000 in 2007 and 2008, Ferrier said.  Cheese, Yogurt  Milk costs in India jumped 20 percent in the past year,
said Sodhi, whose group sells cheese, yogurt and milk-based
products under the Amul brand. Higher prices may spur supply,
the Foreign Agricultural Service of the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said in December.  “Higher prices have translated into higher returns for
producers and not unexpectedly, milk output from major producers
is forecast to increase significantly in 2011,” the agency said.  India’s butter exports are forecast at 10,000 tons in 2011,
up from an estimated 4,000 tons in the previous year, according
to USDA. Overseas sales of non-fat dry milk may be 15,000 tons,
from 10,000 tons in 2010, it said.  “This year, the growth in demand has surpassed output and
we’re paying farmers 20 percent more,” he said. “Farmers have
the capacity to augment output if they get a remunerative price.
There will be sufficient milk next year.”  The dairy market in the Middle East and Asia is growing at
about 4 percent to 5 percent annually and markets are likely to
remain strong, Bruce Donnison, general manager sustainability at
Fonterra, said last week in Canberra. India could represent the
next major market in the region after  China , he said.  Incomes Double  India’s $1.3 trillion economy has grown at an average 8.5
percent annually in the past five years, doubling incomes and
lifting sales at local units of  Nestle SA (NESN)  and Groupe  Danone (BN)  SA.
The nation’s per-capita milk usage has surpassed that of Japan
and  South Korea , and is four times that of China,  Barclays
Capital  said in a November report.  “Value-added products like cheese and ultra-heat treatment
milk have been the preferred options within food for a middle-
class consumer upgrading to upper-middle class or upper class,”
Shiva Mudgil, a dairy analyst at the Indian unit of Rabobank
International, said in an e-mailed response. “The value-added
products market is very small and is growing at a strong rate.”  Demand for branded milk is growing at 20 percent annually,
said Sodhi. Total output can expand at more than 5 to 6 percent
a year if farmers receive remunerative prices, he said.  “The official target of producing 180 million tons by 2020
can be achieved,” Sodhi said.  By 2030, milk consumption will be double the level in 2010,
reaching 242 million tons, Barclays said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  