-- 
India's Congress Party Ends Standoff With Coalition Partner Over Election

-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 
2011-03-08T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/india-s-congress-party-coalition-partner-end-election-standoff.html
Indian Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s Congress party and its second-biggest ally resolved a
stalemate over sharing seats in a state election, ending three
days of speculation over the stability of the government.  Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam , one of a dozen partners in
Singh’s coalition, said March 5 it will withdraw support after
the two parties failed to agree on the number of seats each
would contest in an election in the southern state of  Tamil Nadu 
in April. The state is ruled by the DMK.  “The DMK and Congress have reached a seat-sharing
agreement,” Ghulam Nabi Azad, minister for health and a member
of the Congress party, told reporters in  New Delhi  yesterday
following talks between leaders of both parties. “The alliance
will work together.”  The row threatened to destabilize Singh’s government as he
battles to restore investor confidence dented by corruption
allegations, the most serious of which triggered the removal of
the telecommunications minister, a member of the DMK.    India ’s stocks rose the most in a week yesterday as oil
prices declined and political uncertainty over Singh’s
government eased. The Bombay Stock Exchange’s benchmark
Sensitive Index rose 1.2 percent.  Both parties “had no option but to remain allies,” said  Mahesh Rangarajan , a political analyst in New Delhi. “It was
hard posturing from both sides.”  Without the support of the DMK’s 18 lawmakers in the 545-
member lower house of parliament the ruling alliance would have
been short of a majority and would have to rely on the support
of smaller regional groups to pass legislation.  Relations between the Congress and its southern ally soured
after former telecommunications minister  Andimuthu Raja  was
arrested on Feb. 2 in a federal probe into the 2008 sale of
mobile-phone licenses. The DMK and Congress have been allies
since 2004.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  