-- 
India’s Rupee Little Changed as Oil Concern Offsets Inflows

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-03-08T04:31:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/india-s-rupee-little-changed-as-oil-concern-offsets-inflows.html
  India ’s rupee was little changed as
overseas demand for the nation’s equities was offset by concern
oil prices will rise, threatening economic growth.  Crude reached a 29-month high yesterday as government
warplanes bombed rebel positions near the oil hub of Ras Lanuf
in  Libya , holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves. India imports
about 75 percent of the oil it uses and subsidizes some fuel.
Overseas investors bought $305 million more Indian shares than
they sold in the first four days of this month, according to
exchange data.  “There are two competing stories at the moment,” said
Emmanuel Ng, a currency strategist at Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. in Singapore. “One is foreign investment in equities and
the other is high  oil prices .”  The rupee traded at 45.05 per dollar as of 9:32 a.m. in
Mumbai, compared with 45.0525 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The currency has declined 0.8 percent so
far this year, the second-worst performance among the 10 most-
traded Asian currencies excluding the yen.  India’s budget deficit will narrow to 4.6 percent of gross
domestic product in the fiscal year beginning April 1, from 5.1
percent this year, Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said last
week. The government may “struggle” to meet that target as
spending on food and fuel subsidies will probably rise,  Takahira Ogawa , a credit analyst at Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services in
Singapore, said March 1.  Offshore forwards indicate the rupee will trade at 45.78 to
the dollar in three months, compared with expectations of 45.82
yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a
set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in
dollars.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Khalid Qayum in  Singapore  at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  