-- 
Indian Stocks Rise as Oil Falls, Singh’s Ally Delays Withdrawal

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-03-08T11:26:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/indian-stocks-rise-as-oil-falls-singh-s-ally-delays-withdrawal.html
India’s stocks rose the most in a
week as oil prices declined and a partner in Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government delayed a decision to withdraw from
the coalition.    Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the biggest truckmaker, jumped 3 percent.
Oil dropped for the first time in three days after al-Jazeera
reported that  Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi offered to relinquish
power, prompting speculation fighting may ease in  Africa ’s
third-biggest producer.  Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. (JPA) , a builder of
dams, advanced 2.3 percent.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex,
gained 216.98, or 1.2 percent, to 18,439.65 at the 3:30 p.m.
close in Mumbai, the first advance in three days. The S&P CNX
Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange rose 1.1 percent to
5,520.80, while its April futures settled at 5,563.70. The BSE
200 Index increased 1.1 percent to 2,261.32.  “Things are settling down,” said Vikas Khemani, head of
institutional equities at Edelweiss Capital Ltd. in Mumbai, who
advises global funds on strategies. “The fall in  oil prices  has
eased investor concern and there’s no risk to the government
right now.” He’s advising investors to buy shares of drugmakers
and energy companies.  Tata Motors added 3 percent to 1,162.15 rupees, while its
April futures settled at 1,149 rupees. Jaiprakash Associates
climbed 2.3 percent to 84.2 rupees.  Oil, Coalition  Crude oil dropped as much as 2 percent in New York trading
after al-Jazeera reported the proposal that guaranteed safe
passage for the leader and his family. The interim rebel council
rejected the offer, the report said, without stating how it
obtained the information.  In India, Singh’s second-biggest ally yesterday delayed a
decision on pulling its ministers out of the federal cabinet,
signaling talks to heal a rift over how to fight state elections
are making progress.  The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party, one of a dozen
partners Singh’s  Indian National Congress  relies upon, March 5
vowed to end support for the government after the two parties
failed to agree on the number of seats each would contest in
April elections in the southern state.  The Sensex fell the most in a week yesterday as the threat
of a coalition partner’s withdrawal may make it harder to pass
laws added to concern an oil-price rally will fan inflation. The
gauge has lost 10 percent this year, the worst performer in  Asia 
among benchmark indexes tracked by Bloomberg, as India’s central
bank raised  interest rates  to stem price gains.  DLF, JSW Steel  Sensex companies trade at an average 17.4 times estimated
profit, down from a high of about 21 times a year ago, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We view any weakness in the Indian markets due to
political uncertainty as an opportunity to buy select large-cap
stocks,” Suresh A Mahadevan, an analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a
report today. “While we believe Indian stocks may remain under
pressure in the short term on the back of rising crude prices
and foreign institutional investor outflows, we remain positive
on a 12-month horizon.”    DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , the biggest developer, advanced 1.9 percent to
222.6 rupees after it was raised to “hold” from “reduce” by
Sandeep Mathew and Avneesh Sukhija, analysts at BNP Paribas SA,
who wrote in a note to investors that recovery in the company’s
office markets appears to be “on track.”    JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL)  increased 1.9 percent to 936.85 rupees,
while its April futures settled at 948.9 rupees. Steel
production by India’s third-biggest manufacturer of the alloy
rose 8 percent in February from a year earlier, according to its
statement to the Bombay Stock Exchange.  Overseas investors bought a net 6.26 billion rupees ($139
million) of Indian equities on March 4, reducing their outflow
from equities this year to 80.9 billion rupees, according to the
 website  of the Securities and Exchange Board of  India .  India’s economic expansion and corporate earnings lured
foreign investors to buy a record $29.3 billion of local stocks
last year and made the Sensex the best performer and most
expensive among the world’s 10 biggest markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  