-- 
Indonesia Coal Areas Have Infrastructure Hurdles, WoodMac Says

-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 
2011-03-08T09:21:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/indonesia-coal-areas-have-infrastructure-hurdles-woodmac-says.html
  Indonesia ’s new coal supply areas in
South Sumatra and the Wahau field must overcome infrastructure
limitations to help meet demand from emerging markets including
India, according to Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd.  “There is currently insufficient infrastructure in these
areas to support large-scale coal exports,” Rohan Kendall, an
analyst at Wood Mackenzie, said today at a conference in New
Delhi. “There are numerous projects proposed which combined
would add 140 million metric tons per annum of capacity. We
believe that some of these are unlikely to progress given
regulatory challenges.”  Indonesia, the world’s largest exporter of power-plant
coal, will account for 40 percent of growth in seaborne thermal
supply of the fuel over the next 10 years, according to Wood
Mackenzie. Indian companies including  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  and
the Adani Group are securing coal supplies as they build
generation plants to meet electricity demand in  Asia ’s second-
fastest growing major economy, after  China .  The Wahau coal field, located in East Kalimantan on
Indonesia’s part of Borneo island, and the South Sumatra basin
will contribute to the growth of Indonesia’s seaborne coal
supply, according to Kendall.  “There is $8 billion of infrastructure projects in the
pipeline in these emerging areas that will support export
growth,” he said.  The emerging basins are attractive for Indian power
generators because they contain abundant reserves and production
costs are low, according to Wood Mackenzie.  Lower Costs  “The costs of investing upstream to secure coal
requirements are much lower than Indian power generators would
otherwise pay if they were to purchase all of their coal on the
seaborne market,” Kendall said.  Indian utilities will need to boost coal imports as the gap
between domestic supplies of the fuel and demand will triple
within seven years, ICRA Ltd., the Indian unit of Moody’s
Investors Service, said last month in a report.  Indonesia’s coal output this year may reach 320 million
tons to 330 million tons, below the target of 340 million tons,
as rainfall disrupts mining, Bob Kamandanu, chairman of the
Indonesian Coal Mining Association, said in Jakarta on Feb. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  