-- 
InterContinental Hotels, Hilton Expect More Price Increases

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a   a n d   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-03-08T17:07:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/intercontinental-hotels-chief-sees-scope-to-raise-prices-again.html
Hotel rates are likely to increase
further this year as a recovery in business travel fills more
rooms, executives of the biggest lodging companies said today.  “As occupancy continues to rise, companies like ours do
find ourselves in a position to raise rates,” Andrew Cosslett,
chief executive officer of  InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,
said today in an interview in Berlin, where the company is
hosting the International Hotel Investment Forum. Higher prices
for rooms are “inevitable,” Simon Vincent, Hilton Worldwide
Inc.’s president for Europe, said in a separate interview.  Business and leisure travel is recovering after companies
and consumers trimmed spending during the recession. Revenue per
room in the hotel industry rose worldwide in 2010, according to
researcher STR Global. Accor, Europe’s largest hotelier, said
last month that room rates are improving in upscale and midscale
hotels and “gradually stabilizing” at the economy level.  “It’s inevitable that we will see rate increases,”
Hilton’s Vincent said, also citing higher costs for labor and
energy. Hilton will try to “mitigate” price rises, he said.  Marriott International Inc., the biggest U.S. hotelier,
plans to increase room rates in  Europe  and forecasts that within
18 months, average prices on the continent will match those seen
before the economic crisis. Room rates in  London  have already
surpassed pre-recession levels, said Amy McPherson, president
and managing director for Europe. Rates are rising in Paris and  Germany  as business travelers return to the chain, she said.  ‘More Opportunities’  “We see more opportunities, particularly in London, Paris
and some of our gateway cities in 2011, to also have absolute
rate increases,” McPherson said at the conference. Marriott
predicts revenue per room across the Bethesda, Maryland-based
company’s lodgings will gain 6 percent to 8 percent this year.  InterContinental, the world’s largest hotel group by number
of rooms, increased revenue per available room by 6 percent in
2010. The Denham, England-based company has said it aims to
expand room numbers by as much as 5 percent a year starting next
year after more modest growth in 2011.  InterContinental may spend more than $100 million a year on
acquisitions, Cosslett said. The hotelier may also add as many
as four brands within three-to-four years in countries including  China  and the U.S., two of its major markets. InterContinental
will operate about 50 hotels in  Shanghai  by 2014, the CEO said,
calling growth prospects in the Asian country “tremendous.”  Accor Plans  The company, which gets most of its income from franchised
properties, is in the process of selling the InterContinental
New York Barclay and may dispose of more hotels, Cosslett said.  Hilton, the owner of Waldorf Astoria Hotels & Resorts, has
205 hotels in Europe with a pipeline of 90 others, Vincent said.
The company isn’t considering acquisitions or joint ventures and
wants to grow through its own brands, he said.  Accor’s growth potential is in the U.S. through its Sofitel
brand in cities such as  San Francisco , Miami and  Boston , Chief
Operating Officer Yann Caillere said in an interview.  A slowdown in Spain, Italy and  Greece  is being offset by
business in  South America , Caillere said at the conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net 
Holger Elfes in Berlin at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  