-- 
Blogger Hal Turner Agrees to Let Government Destroy His Four Firearms

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-03-08T16:16:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/internet-radio-host-turner-agrees-to-let-government-destroy-his-firearms.html
Hal Turner, the Internet radio host
and blogger serving a 33-month sentence for threatening three
U.S. judges, agreed to let the government destroy his firearms
after the judge in his case ordered them returned to his mother.  Federal prosecutors told U.S. District Judge Donald E. Walter in  Brooklyn ,  New York , on Feb. 28 that they wanted to
destroy the four weapons and pay Turner for them rather than
return them. They said e-mails he wrote appeared to show he
planned to pursue judicial and law-enforcement officials after
he’s released from prison.  “Mr. Turner has directed me to agree to the destruction of
these weapons in a further attempt to establish that he has no
intention of using them in any unlawful or harmful manner,”
Turner’s lawyer,  Ronald G. Russo  of Schlam Stone & Dolan LLP in
New York, wrote in a court filing yesterday.  Turner, 48, was convicted in August of threatening the
three Chicago-based U.S. appeals judges because of their ruling
upholding a gun ban. Two previous trials ended in hung juries.
Walter ordered the guns returned when he sentenced Turner Dec.
21.  Turner has appealed his conviction.  Kim Nerheim, a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald in  Chicago , declined to comment. Lawyers from
Fitzgerald’s office prosecuted the case in Brooklyn, where it
was moved to ensure a fair trial. Walter is a senior judge in
federal court in Shreveport,  Louisiana .  Not Violent  Russo said in the filing that Turner isn’t violent and he
said in the e-mails that he would only shame certain people.  “Mr. Turner makes clear that at some later date, he hopes
to embarrass those who have punished him by speaking of them on
the radio,” Russo wrote.  Turner would be paid fair-market value for the firearms
under the government’s proposal.  The firearms are a Mossberg 12-gauge  shotgun  and three
semiautomatic handguns: a  Sig Sauer  Model P-229.40, a  Star 
Firestar 9mm and a  Walther  PPK .380, according to the
government’s court filing.  Prosecutors said Turner, of North Bergen,  New Jersey ,
threatened judges Frank Easterbrook,  Richard Posner  and William Bauer because of their June 2009 ruling upholding handgun bans
in Chicago and Oak Park,  Illinois . A lower court previously
dismissed a legal challenge to the ordinances by the  National
Rifle Association . The U.S. Supreme Court overturned the handgun
bans on June 28.  “Let me be the first to say this plainly: These judges
deserve to be killed,” Turner wrote in a Web posting. He also
posted the judges’ names, photographs and work addresses, and a
map of their courthouse.  The case is U.S. v. Turner, 09-cr-00650, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn), and Turner’s
appeal is U.S. v. Turner, 11-196, Second U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 