-- 
Iran Says It Has ‘No Trace’ of Missing Ex-FBI Agent Levinson

-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 
2011-03-08T11:26:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/iran-says-it-has-no-trace-of-missing-ex-fbi-agent-levinson-1-.html
  Iran ’s Foreign Ministry said it has
seen “no trace” of a former  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
agent who disappeared in the Persian Gulf nation four years ago
and called on the U.S. to share information to help locate him.  If the U.S. has “consistent information, they can relay it
to us,”  Ramin Mehmanparast , a Foreign Ministry spokesman, told
state TV today. “Through collective effort, we could do a more
effective search.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  in a March 3 statement
requested assistance from Iran to “undertake humanitarian
efforts to safely return and reunite” Robert Levinson, 63, with
his family. The U.S. has “recent indications” that Levinson,
who went missing during a business trip to Iran in March 2007,
is still alive and is being held somewhere in southwest  Asia ,
Clinton said.  The U.S. accuses President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s government
of human-rights abuses and has spearheaded the imposition of
sanctions on Iran over the country’s nuclear program, which it
says is a cover for developing atomic weapons. Iran accuses the
U.S. of fueling discord in the Middle East and maintains its
nuclear work is intended to generate electricity.  Levinson, who was working as a private detective, was on
Kish Island, a free economic zone off Iran’s southern coast,
according to Associated Press reports at the time. The Iranian
government has said it has no record of the former FBI agent’s
presence on Kish.  Levinson disappeared after a meeting with Dawud Salahuddin,
an American fugitive wanted for the assassination of a former
Iranian diplomat in  Maryland  in 1980, according to AP.
Salahuddin has said he last saw Levinson being questioned by
Iranian officials, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  