-- 
Iraq’s Power-Sharing Government Facing Tensions, Iraqiyah Says

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a d h i m   A j r a s h
-- 
2011-03-08T13:48:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/iraq-s-power-sharing-government-facing-tensions-iraqiyah-says.html
Former Iraqi Prime Minister  Ayad Allawi  is frustrated with Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki because
he isn’t upholding his vow to share power in a unity government,
a senior member of Allawi’s Iraqiyah bloc said.  Al-Maliki is “circumventing agreements,” Falah Hassan
Zeidan said in an interview in  Baghdad  today. Iraqi leaders came
up with a power-sharing formula in December after nine months of
talks following inconclusive parliamentary elections last March.
As part of the deal, Allawi was named to head a National
Strategic Policy Council, a job he said he no longer wants in a
televised address on March 3.  The creation of the panel was a U.S. initiative aimed at
placating Allawi after he was unable to secure the premiership
even after winning the most seats in the elections. Allawi, a
secular Shiite Muslim, won the support of Sunni Arabs whose
inclusion in the government is seen as key to stability.  Iraqiyah wants the council to have decision-making powers
and not “be honorific,” Zeidan said. “Allawi won’t agree to
any job unless it gives him genuine authority within the
framework of genuine partnership.”  While Allawi probably won’t pull out of the government
unless he finds support from another powerful faction, there has
been a rapprochement between him and Shiite cleric Moqtada al- Sadr, Ali al-Saffar, an Iraqi analyst at the London-based
Economist Intelligence Unit, said. If they were to leave the
government together, “the impact would be devastating,” he
said today by telephone.  Moqtada al-Sadr  Al-Sadr, a former militia leader who heads a bloc of 40
lawmakers, said about two months ago that he was giving al-
Maliki six months to prove himself.  The uncertainty comes amid street rallies across  Iraq 
calling for greater accountability from politicians and better
services. Several people have died in clashes with security
forces. Al-Maliki responded by redirecting $900 million from a
jet-fighter program to support food subsidies. The Cabinet also
presented a bill to parliament to reduce government wages.  Zeidan said Iraqiyah supports the rallies, describing them
as “natural and popular.”  Parliament will study their causes
on March 10, he said. Unlike demonstrations elsewhere in the
Middle East, the Iraqi protests haven’t included calls for the
overthrow of al-Maliki’s government.  In their session on March 10, lawmakers will also present
the names of candidates for the defense, interior and national
security ministerial posts, he said. Al-Maliki has overseen
these ministries since the elections.  Al-Maliki’s State of Law alliance won 89 seats to
Iraqiyah’s 91 in the elections, while Kurdish parties took 43.
State of Law merged with former Shiite rivals, gaining a
combined total of 159 seats, and later drew in lawmakers from
other groups to get the 163 seats needed for a governing
coalition in the 325-seat parliament.  Iraqiyah now has 85 lawmakers and nine cabinet posts,
following the withdrawal from the bloc yesterday, Zeidan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 