-- 
Hiring Intentions at U.S. Employers Rose in Second Quarter, Manpower Says

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-03-08T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/hiring-intentions-at-u-s-employers-improving-manpower-says.html
More U.S. employers said they plan
to boost payrolls in the second quarter, and fewer expect to
reduce headcounts, a private survey found.    Manpower Inc. (MAN) , the world’s second-largest provider of
temporary workers, said today that 16 percent plan to add
workers in the April-June period, up from 14 percent in the
first quarter. The share of those projecting workforce
reductions fell to 6 percent from 10 percent.  The figures add to evidence that job prospects are
beginning to improve for Americans, helping bolster incomes and
sustaining the  consumer spending  that accounts for about 70
percent of the economy. Labor Department figures on March 4
showed payrolls increased by 192,000 last month and the  unemployment rate  fell to an almost two-year low of 8.9 percent.  “There is a steady, consistent demand for employees --
it’s just not so robust that we should be dancing in the
streets,” Jeffrey Joerres, chief executive officer of
Milwaukee-based Manpower, said in an interview. “We’re seeing
good strength in manufacturing.”  The company’s second-quarter employment gauge held at 8
percent compared with the previous three months. It rose from 6
percent in the April-June 2010 period on a seasonally adjusted
basis. Unadjusted, the net employment measure increased to 10
percent in the second quarter from 8 percent a year earlier.  Manpower’s index subtracts the percentage of employers
planning to cut jobs from those who plan to hire and adjusts the
results for seasonal variations.  Last Five Quarters  About seven of every 10 employers said they anticipated
staff levels will not change in the April to June period, an
outlook that differs little from the last five quarters.  All 13 industries surveyed, including construction and
government, anticipated a net increase in second-quarter hiring
compared with the prior three months. Employers in the mining
and leisure and hospitality industries were most optimistic as
both expected payrolls to expand a net 21 percent.  Construction companies projected staff would grow a net 6
percent after a 9 percent drop in the last survey. Federal,
state and local government employment was estimated to increase
by a net 1 percent, compared with no change at the beginning of
this year.  The Labor Department’s report on March 4 also showed a
measure of the share of industries showing job gains last month
rose to 68.2, the highest since May 1998. Factory payrolls
increased by 33,000, exceeding the survey forecast of a 25,000
gain. Employment at service-providers rose 122,000. Construction
payrolls climbed 33,000 and transportation and warehousing jobs
increased by 22,000. Retail trade employment declined 8,100.  Each of the four major U.S. regions in the Manpower survey
expected hiring to increase a seasonally adjusted 8 percent.  Manpower interviewed more than 18,000 employers in the U.S.
The survey is conducted quarterly and has a margin of error of
plus or minus 0.6 percentage point in the U.S.  Glattbrugg, Switzerland-based Adecco SA is the world’s
biggest supplier of temporary workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  