-- 
Irish Confidence Rises as Consumers Adjust to Austerity Measures

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-03-08T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/irish-confidence-rises-as-consumers-adjust-to-austerity-measures.html
Irish  consumer confidence  rose to
its highest level in five months in February as households
adjusted to budget cuts and fears of job losses began to ease.  The consumer sentiment index increased to to 50.3, the
highest since September, from 48.7 in January, KBC Ireland and
the  Economic & Social Research Institute  in Dublin said today in
an e-mailed statement. A gauge of consumers’ expectations also
improved.  “We had feared a weaker reading last month as a result of
the impact of budget 2011 measures on spending power and
heightened focus on Ireland’s economic problems through the
general-election campaign,”  Austin Hughes , chief economist at
KBC Ireland, said in the statement. The improvement “suggests
some possibility that the adjustment of households to difficult
circumstances may not be quite as traumatic as feared.”  Ireland’s outgoing Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
introduced 6 billion euros ($8.4 billion) of spending cuts and
tax increases in the 2011 budget in December. Consumers are set
to face further austerity measures as Fine Gael and Labour,
which became the two largest parties in the parliament after the
Feb. 25 election, aim to cut the  budget deficit  to the European
Union limit by 2015.  Ireland was granted an 85 billion-euro aid package in
November as it struggled with the cost of rescuing its banking
system. The bank-bailout costs pushed the deficit to 32 percent
of output last year, compared with the EU limit of 3 percent.  A measure of consumers’ expectations of their financial
situation, the economy and employment prospects rose to 37.8 in
February from 31.5 in January. KBC’s gauge of how consumers
viewed their current situation slipped to 68.9 from 74.2.  “There is little question that the current spending habits
of Irish consumers are very restrained and the February reading
points toward the persistence of subdued spending patterns,”
said Hughes. Still, the “broad message” is that “sentiment is
showing tentative signs of stabilizing.”  It may take a few more months before it is clear if
sentiment “has bottomed out,” Hughes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan at   jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  