-- 
Italian Sanctions Against Qaddafi Stop Short of Libyan-Owned Banca UBAE

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-03-08T10:42:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/italy-sanctions-on-qaddafi-stop-short-of-curtailing-libya-controlled-bank.html
  Italy ’s sanctions against Muammar Qaddafi and his family have stopped short of curtailing the
activities of  Banca UBAE SpA , the Rome-based trade-financing
bank controlled by  Libya ’s central bank.  UBAE, which had 3.1 billion euros ($4.3 billion) of
deposits at the end of 2009, continues to provide letters of
credit, said an executive at UBAE’s Milan branch, who declined
to be identified, citing company policy. UBAE’s 11th floor
office, with views of Milan’s Duomo Cathedral, was serving
customers yesterday. Officials at the Rome-based  Bank of Italy ,
which has licensed  UBAE  since 1972, declined to comment.  Italy, Libya’s main trading partner, imposed on March 5 a
freeze on Libyan assets under a wider ban by the  United Nations .
While countries, including the U.K. and  Austria , extended the
freeze to members of the country’s sovereign wealth fund, the
Libyan Investment Authority, Italy said it will monitor activity
involving other Libyan entities. The European Union may widen
the sanctions to include more individuals and organizations.  “Only when and if we understand what belongs to the
Qaddafi family and what belongs to the sovereign funds, can we
have a correct implementation of the United Nations
resolution,” said  Giuseppe Di Taranto , an economics professor
at  Rome ’s Luiss University. “UBAE is an example in this sense:
as a government, you can only act when that distinction is
absolutely clear.”  UniCredit Stake  UBAE’s biggest shareholder is Libyan Foreign Bank with a 68
percent stake and  other owners  include  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s
biggest lender, with an 11 percent stake, according to UBAE’s
website. A spokesman for UniCredit declined to comment on UBAE.  The bank, which employed about 170 people as of last year,
provides finance for exports to countries such as Libya and
Sudan, as well as imports of oil. Libyan Foreign Bank, owned by
the country’s central bank, accounted for about 37 percent of
UBAE’s deposits in 2009,  Fitch Ratings  said in a report in May.  Fitch placed UBAE’s BB+ rating, the top non-investment
grade, on review on March 2, citing instability in Libya. The
bank’s liquidity benefits from a “high proportion of liquid
assets, comprising the investment of deposits, predominantly
from banks, government and quasi-government entities that make
up UBAE’s customer base in the Middle East and North Africa
region,” Fitch said in a statement. UBAE’s rating remains on
review, Fitch said yesterday.  Libyan Shareholders  Founded in 1972 by Italian, Libyan and French shareholders,
UBAE assisted Libyans seeking business with  Europe  when the
country faced sanctions during the 1980s and 1990s. Since the
easing of restrictions in 2004, UBAE expanded outside Libya and
added services. It has a brokerage license and assists Libyan
companies in finding European partners for local projects.  The bank has ties to the country’s sovereign fund, the
Libyan Investment Authority, through its main shareholder, and
acts as a broker to the Libyan Investment Authority on its
European securities trades, former general manager Marco
Ferrario said in an interview last year.  Both Libya’s central bank and the Libyan Investment
Authority own shares in UniCredit, and the country has invested
in  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and  Juventus Football Club SpA (JUVE) , owner of
Italy’s most successful soccer team.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  