-- 
Italian Women Struggle to Succeed as Probe Dogs Berlusconi

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-03-08T10:22:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/italian-women-struggle-for-rights-as-sex-probe-dogs-berlusconi.html
When Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  spotted Emma Marcegaglia, the head of Italy’s  main
business lobby , in an audience of top executives last month, he
introduced her from the podium as a “good-looking chick.”  Marcegaglia, 45, is the first female to serve as president
of the Confindustria business group in its 101-year history. She
told reporters at the Rome event that she didn’t mind being told
she was attractive “as long as it wasn’t an excuse not to carry
out the important economic reforms we ask for.”  The plight of women in Italy, which trails the rest of  Europe  in almost every indicator of  gender equality , has come
under scrutiny amid Berlusconi’s sex scandals and prostitution
trial.  Legislation  from his party that would force companies to
appoint women to a third of board seats will be debated this
week in the Senate as  Italy  marks Women’s Day today.  “This is the first bill of its kind and if passed, will be
an historic step for Italy,” said Lella Golfo, 69, the lawmaker
in the premier’s People of Liberty party who crafted the
proposal. The center-left opposition, which created the post of
minister of equal opportunities in 1996, never proposed similar
legislation when it was in government, she said in an interview.  Behind Malawi  Italy ranked  74th out  of 134 countries in a World Economic
Forum Gender Gap Index, behind Malawi and  Kazakhstan . With the
exception of  Malta , Italy has the lowest ratio of working women
in the European Union, 46 percent. As few as 6 percent of board
directors are women, compared with twice as many in the U.K. and
32 percent in Norway, according to a 2010 report by management
consultants at McKinsey & Co.  Addressing the issue of women in Italy is “difficult given
the complete lack of both awareness of the problem and the will
to do anything about it, not only in the ruling class but also
among the vast majority of Italians,” said Emma Bonino, a
former minister for European Affairs  who led  campaigns in the
1970s to legalize abortion and divorce.  In Italy, 21 percent of women between the ages of 18 and 29
are unemployed compared with 18 percent for men of the same age
group, according to data released today by statistics institute
Istat. Three times as many women work part-time compared with
men, and almost two-thirds of those women would rather work full
time, Istat said.  Women Protest  Signs are increasing that women in Italy, which the British
writer Tobias Jones dubbed “the land that feminism forgot,”
are becoming more vocal. Hundreds of thousands rallied last
month across Italy to protest Berlusconi’s perceived sexism.
Demanding better treatment, they waved banners that read “If
not now, then when?”  Throughout Berlusconi’s 17-year political career, he has
considered jokes on women fair game and never apologized when
they fell flat or drew criticism. In 2009, commenting on the
case of a 25-year-old woman who was raped on New Year’s Eve, he
quipped that with so many good-looking Italian women, it would
be impossible to protect them all from assault.  “If Italy hadn’t had Berlusconi, the female emancipation
movement that peaked in the 1970s wouldn’t have come to such a
grinding halt,” Rosy Bindi, a former health minister and
possible opposition candidate for premier, said in a telephone
interview on March 3. “Women share some of the blame for this.
Too many people don’t react and some women can’t fathom that you
don’t get things handed over for free.”  Petition to Resign  The opposition  Democratic Party  today began collecting
signatures in Rome on a petition that calls on Berlusconi to
resign. Bindi is due to personally deliver the document to the
prime minister’s office.  Elsewhere in Europe, governments have quotas to improve the
balance of female representation in corporate management. Norway
was first in 2003 to enforce female minimum representation.  Spain  followed in 2007, and France plans to impose a 40 percent
quota by 2016 for its 2,500 biggest companies.  “Italians don’t recognize that without including and
supporting women in the workforce, the country cannot grow,”
said Alessandra Perrazzelli, a lawyer and head of international
regulatory and antitrust affairs at bank  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP) 
“It’s like playing soccer with half the team.”  Under the bill by Golfo, who says it may be approved by the
end of this month, Italian companies that fail to hire women
directors would face fines of as much as 1 million euros ($1.4
million). A proposal in 2006 to set quotas for parliamentary
candidates elapsed at the end of the legislature.  Powerful Women  Italian women in powerful posts include Marcegaglia, who
runs a family steel business; Marina Berlusconi, chairwoman of
her father’s holding Fininvest SpA; and Monica Mondardini, who
has overseen a 33 percent share gain since taking over as chief
executive officer of  Gruppo Editoriale L’Espresso SpA (ES)  in January
2009. Marina Berlusconi, the premier’s oldest daughter, is 12th
on Fortune’s annual list of most-powerful businesswomen -- the
only Italian on it.  The gender gap is pronounced in Italian politics. A mere 21
percent of the 630-person lower house of parliament is composed
of women. That compares with 33 percent in  Germany  and 37
percent in Spain.  With elections looming in 2013, if not sooner, the idea of
a woman leading the country is gaining traction. Former Prime
Minister Romano Prodi, the only candidate to defeat Berlusconi,
supports Bindi, saying on March 1 that  the timing is right  for a
female premier. Berlusconi once called Bindi “more beautiful
than intelligent,” to which she replied: “I’m not one of the
women at your disposal.”  Berlusconi, 74, stands trial April 6 on charges he paid for
sex with a minor and abused his power to cover his tracks. Three
female judges are set to pass verdict on the premier, who once
advised a female graduate looking for work to “try and marry a
millionaire.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Rome  at  fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net  