-- 
Liverpool’s Passion for the Past Darkens Outlook for Docks Plan

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-03-08T12:32:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/liverpool-s-passion-for-the-past-darkens-outlook-for-docks-plan.html
When developer Lindsey Ashworth told
Liverpool residents about his company’s plan to spend 5.5
billion pounds ($9 billion) rejuvenating the city’s derelict
docklands, he didn’t hear any applause.  “They were banging and kicking the tables and giving me a
real hard time,” said Ashworth, a director of U.K. property
company Peel Group, recalling a 2007 meeting. “I thought I’d
leave the building to find that my car had been turned over.”  It was the start of a rocky relationship between the
Manchester-based developer of the  Liverpool Waters  project and
preservationists concerned that the plans will render a 296-
year-old UNESCO world heritage site unrecognizable. Both sides
have said they don’t want to make further concessions over what
would be the U.K.’s biggest property development and Peel may
not continue the fight if the dispute leads to a public hearing.  “If the government says ‘we’re not sure about this,’ why
should we spend another two years and another couple of million
pounds trying to prove it’s right,” said Ashworth, 54.  The 30-year  Liverpool Waters  project would scatter
skyscrapers on a 60-hectare (148-acre) site, adjacent to the
landmark Royal Liver Building and two other towers dating from
1907 that line the waterfront of the maritime mercantile city.  Shanghai Tower  The plan includes the 55-story Shanghai Tower, a cruise
line terminal, as many as 9,152 new homes and 305,000 square
meters (3.3 million square feet) of  office space . Around 14,800
jobs will be created over that period, Peel says.  The project is part of the 10 billion-pound Peel Waters
redevelopment that straddles the river Mersey and includes the
peninsula known as the Wirral. The 4.5-billion-pound  Wirral
Waters  project was granted final approval in November.  Objections to the project aren’t just about history.
Doubters also question the wisdom of adding so much property to
a city that has shrunk by half since 1931 and has a commercial
property vacancy rate that’s double the U.K. average. Ashworth
argues that the sheer scale of Liverpool Waters will draw
tenants and investors, just as Peel’s MediaCityUK development
has in nearby Manchester.  Liverpool Waters will be assessed by the Liverpool City
Council’s planning committee in June, according to councilor
Malcolm Kennedy. If it’s approved, state-funded preservation
group  English Heritage  has the right to raise objections and
refer the matter to Communities and Local Government Minister
Eric Pickles. He can either call an inquiry or let the council’s
decision stand. English Heritage plans to present a report to
the committee detailing its disagreements with the plan.  UNESCO Site  Liverpool’s waterfront and docks won UNESCO World Heritage
status in 2004. As one of world’s major trading centers in the
18th and 19th centuries, the ports and docks expanded the reach
of the British Empire, transporting both slaves and emigrants
from northern  Europe  to  North America . A plaque at Clarence Dock
commemorates the 1.3 million Irish who fled the potato famine
from 1845 to 1852, most passing through the dock’s gates.  Liverpool’s unemployment was among the highest in the U.K.
during the 1980s as dock machinery replaced workers and
manufacturers such as  Tate & Lyle Plc (TATE) ’s sugar works closed down.
In 1981, a lack of jobs fed racial tensions and poverty, causing
nine days of continuous rioting in the city’s Toxteth area.  ‘Symbol of Failure’  “By the 1980s, it had very much become a symbol of all
that was failing in post-industrial Britain,” Graeme Milne, a
lecturer of modern history at the  University of Liverpool  said
by phone.  The waterfront experienced its first large-scale revival in
the mid-1980s, when work began on transforming the Albert Dock
area to a district with shops, hotels, housing and the Tate
Liverpool museum.  The docklands, though, has endured several rebirths since
then. It has increased its offering as a leisure and dining
destination following the construction of the Liverpool One
shopping mall, which added more than 160 shops in the city’s
center.  “Albert Dock has had to rethink its purpose
periodically,” Milne said. It’s now the most-visited
destination in the city, according to Liverpool’s tourist
information  website .    New York  Rival’  In 2006, Peel unveiled Wirral Waters and followed it with
Liverpool Waters in 2007. Peel planned to create an
“international waterside destination” to rival New York,  Shanghai  and Sydney.  Henry Owen-John, North West regional director for London-
based English Heritage, said Peel’s plans don’t say exactly what
will be built and the construction of four levels of underground
parking may damage archeological remains. The group will
“seriously consider” objecting to the plan as it stands, he
said.  The city council’s task will be to determine the balance
between protecting heritage and economic regeneration, Owen-John
said by phone. “We think the two could get into bed together
perfectly reasonably. But we’re not quite there yet.”  The Liverpool Waters skyscrapers were designed to
complement waterfront structures including the Royal Liver, Port
of Liverpool and Cunard buildings, known as the  Three Graces .  Peel has already taken steps to address  English Heritage 
objections, enduring delays that cost the company “millions”
of pounds, Ashworth said, without being more specific. The docks
project has been scaled down by around 20 percent and the
Shanghai Tower was moved away from the waterfront. The number of
tall buildings has been cut to nine from about 20, he said.  ‘No Second Prize’  “It’s like a boxing match,” Ashworth said. “If you lose
a public enquiry that’s it, there’s no second prize.”  The decaying waterfront tells the tale of a city that’s
been in decline for decades. Reminders of Liverpool’s once-
booming economy are scattered along the streets around the
docklands. Red brick grain and tobacco warehouses sit dormant
behind 10-foot high shuttered gates.  “All these dock-related and imported good-related
industries disappeared, so the areas around the dock became an
area of quite substantial unemployment,” said Kennedy of the
Liverpool council. In some parts of city, unemployment is as
high as 50 percent, he said.  Some locals say they can’t understand why the city would
need new office towers and rows of shops when so many existing
ones are empty. Liverpool’s population has fallen every decade,
from a peak of more than 845,000 in 1931 to fewer than 445,000
in 2008.  ‘No Demand’  “We’re not nimbys,” said Tony O’Leary, a Liverpool
resident and pensioner living near Waterloo Quay, using the
“not in my back yard” acronym. “There’s a shortage of proper
housing in this country and Peel’s building big, bloody
apartments. Nobody wants them.”  The vacancy rate for commercial property in Liverpool city
center was about 16.2 percent in 2009, almost double the U.K.
average and an increase from 9.3 percent in 2000, according to a
study by White Young Green Plc.  “There’s lots of vacant office space in Liverpool,”
Panmure Gordon analyst Rachael Waring said in an interview a
short walk from The Cavern Club, where Liverpool natives The
Beatles played hundreds of early shows.  The property housing Panmure Gordon’s offices on
Liverpool’s Chapel Street is about two-thirds full, Waring said.
Buildings nearby are draped with advertisements for available
office space. Prices are as low as 15 pounds a square foot,
according to Panmure Gordon. Prime rent in the City of  London 
financial district is about 54.50 a square foot,  Savills Plc (SVS) 
estimates.  Budget Cuts  Prime Minister  David Cameron , who visited the 17 million-
square-foot Wirral Waters site in January, is looking to the
private sector to boost employment as his government cuts
thousands of state jobs to slash the U.K.’s record budget
deficit. Liverpool is facing some of the deepest reductions with
around 35 percent being sliced from its budget over the next two
years, said City Council spokesman Paul Johnston by phone.  In Manchester, 32 miles to the east, 2,300 employees of the
British Broadcasting Corp are being relocated to Peel’s
MediaCityUK development on Salford Quays. ITV Plc, the U.K.’s
biggest commercial broadcaster, is moving its Manchester-based
operation to the  site  in 2012.  “Peel creates markets,” Ashworth said in the chairman’s
glass-domed office at its Trafford Centre-based headquarters.
“Everywhere we’ve gone, there’s been empty properties but the
enormity and magnitude of the development has created a
market.”  Record-Breaking Deal  Privately owned Peel agreed to sell the Trafford Centre,
the U.K.’s seventh largest mall, to  Capital Shopping Centres
Group Plc (CSCG)  for 748 million pounds in shares and bonds last month.
The price is the highest ever paid for a British property.  Liverpool needs something to fuel growth as the government
cuts begin to bite, said Kennedy of the city council.  “They know it’s coming,” he said. “Life is just like
that at the moment.” Later that day, he planned to tell
employees of  2020 Liverpool , the city’s seven-year old property
and professional services partnership with  Mouchel Group Plc (MCHL) ,
that they may lose their jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 