-- 
LivingSocial's $10,000 Fairmont Coupon Signals Upscale Shift on Deal Sites

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-03-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/livingsocial-s-10-000-fairmont-coupon-signals-upscale-shift-on-deal-sites.html
LivingSocial  heralded a new era last
month when it offered a $10,000 coupon for a penthouse-suite
package at  San Francisco ’s Fairmont hotel: Daily-deal sites are
going upscale.  After getting started on small-ticket items -- cupcakes,
manicures and yoga sessions -- LivingSocial and its larger rival
 Groupon Inc.  are pursuing buyers willing to spend hundreds or
even thousands of dollars on travel and luxury goods.  The move upmarket is putting Groupon and LivingSocial on
the same turf as travel companies such as Travelocity.com Inc.
and  Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , as well as luxury sites like Gilt City. Daily-
deal sites also are trying to grab more of the money heading to
Amazon.com Inc. and other e-commerce stores. A typical daily-
deal user pays $20 to $50 on the specials -- far less than the
average of $100 per transaction spent at online retailers,
according to  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)   “We are finding that people move up and down between
categories: Sometimes they want a sandwich, and sometimes, a
$100 meal,” Rob Solomon, president of Groupon, said in an
interview. “There’s a lot of interest in the luxury category.”  That means offering high-end hotel rooms, airfare
discounts, cruise specials and wine tastings. In the future,
Groupon and LivingSocial also may sell computers, air-
conditioning tune-ups and golf lessons, said Peter Krasilovsky,
a vice president at  BIA/Kelsey , a Chantilly, Virginia-based
research firm.  Lasik Surgery  Groupon, based in  Chicago , has already sold $499 Dutch
bicycles and $2,000 Lasik surgery. LivingSocial’s Fairmont deal
in February, which offered a 50 percent discount on a $20,000
suite and additional perks, was its most expensive deal ever.
The promotion included a one-night stay at the hotel’s 6,000-
square-foot penthouse and a one-day rental of a  Maserati
Quattroporte . LivingSocial, based in  Washington , D.C.,  sold 115
coupons  for the offer.  By moving into pricier deals, the sites are trying to reach
a broader demographic. When it started in November 2008, Groupon
was favored by urban college kids. Now it has more than 60
million subscribers in 42 countries, Solomon said. Most are 25
to 50, and many live in the suburbs, he said.  “We started finding deals that appeal to older couples or
moms,” Solomon said.  Groupon usually takes a 50 percent cut of the offer price,
while LivingSocial collects 35 percent. That means big-ticket
items can quickly rev up sales. At $10,000 a pop, the Fairmont
deal generated $1.15 million for LivingSocial and the hotel.  Established Rivals  The challenge is competing with sites that already
specialize in travel and luxury deals. Travelocity, Expedia and  Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW)  offer discounts on hotel rooms, airfares
and vacation packages. As Groupon and similar sites push into
the market, they will probably sell about $267 million worth of
hotel rooms in the U.S. this year, said  Henry Harteveldt , an
analyst at Forrester. That’s about 1 percent of total online
hotel sales.  LivingSocial aims to gain an edge by touting elaborate
excursions called  Adventures . A company representative organizes
and shepherds customers on trips, such as a $100 snow-tubing
outing followed by a visit to a local brewery. By year-end,
Adventures will spread to 24 cities, up from eight today, said
Maire Griffin, a spokeswoman for LivingSocial.  Groupon, meanwhile, is expanding into airfare. In February,
it offered a $7  voucher  good for $77 worth of airfare for select
flights from  Virgin America . The company is working out special
arrangements with partners, rather than taking its usual 50
percent, Solomon said.  ‘Everyday Value’  Travelocity  says it can offer more consistent savings than
the deal sites. “Our focus is on delivering everyday value to
travelers through products those sites can’t match,” said Joel
Frey, a spokesman for the Southlake, Texas-based company.  Orbitz sees Groupon and the like as potential partners,
rather than rivals.  “We view them as more e-marketing channels we might
utilize,” said Brian Hoyt, a spokesman for the Chicago-based
company. “Orbitz does a significant amount of couponing already
within our own community of customers.”  David McNamee, a spokesman for Bellevue, Washington-based
Expedia, declined to comment.  The luxury-deals market already has a host of competitors
ready to defend their turf.  BloomSpot Inc. , for instance,
focuses on luxury restaurants, spas and weekend getaways, and
averages $70 to $80 per offer.  Bloomingdale’s Versus Wal-Mart?  BloomSpot has been “multiplying revenue every couple of
months,” Chief Executive Officer Jasper Malcolmson said. In
February, it offered a $6,000 wedding-honeymoon  package ,
including an event coordinator, a cake and wine reception --
along with a stay for 10 guests at a 5,000-square-foot estate.  “If Groupon is the Wal-Mart of local shopping, we are the
Bloomingdale’s,” he said. “Bloomingdale’s and Wal-Mart don’t
compete.”  So-called flash-sales sites like  Gilt City  and Ideeli.com
strike agreements with high-end merchants to sell a certain
number of exclusive items to their members during one week.  Ideeli , based in  New York , caters to 4 million women. They
have an average household income of $103,000.  “We’ve sold things in the thousands of dollars,” Paul Hurley, founder and CEO of Ideeli, said in an interview.  At Gilt, competition is spurring enhancements to its
service, said Nate Richardson, president of the New York
startup. “We’re all motivated to keep innovating and improving
so we can continue to grow,” Richardson said in an e-mail.  LivingSocial is counting on a partnership with Amazon to
reach more shoppers and gain an edge on Groupon. Seattle-based
Amazon led a $183 million investment in the startup in December.
The following month, LivingSocial offered a discount on an
Amazon gift card.  Groupon and LivingSocial could ultimately expand into
everything from autos to insurance, said  Sucharita Mulpuru , an
analyst at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Forrester.  “There’s only so much money you can make off of $5 Ben &
Jerry’s coupons,” she said. “My husband always says, ‘I wish
they’d set up a Groupon for BMWs.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  