-- 
J&J FDA Warning Over Stent Failures May Delay New Products

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-03-08T21:12:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/j-j-gets-fda-production-warning-after-plant-inspection-correct-.html
  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
largest health-products company, failed to ensure that heart
stents made at a plant in  Puerto Rico  worked properly, U.S.
regulators said.  The company’s Cordis unit released devices to the market
that didn’t meet design specifications, the  Food and Drug
Administration  said in a Feb. 16  warning letter  released today.
Two tests in 2009 found stents “did not completely expand,”
the agency said. Failure to fix violations may result in fines,
product seizures or delayed device approvals, the FDA said.  J&J has lost ground to  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  and  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX)  in the $4 billion-a-year global market for
stents, used to prop open arteries after de-clogging surgery.
New Brunswick New Jersey-based J&J sold $627 million in drug-
coated stents last year, compared with $919 million in 2009 and
$2.62 billion in 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A critical device such as implantable stents must comply
with their predetermined specification at the time of use to
avoid complications with the surgical procedures and reduce
patient risk,” the FDA said in its letter to Seth Fisher,
chairman of the Cordis group. The issues cited in the warning
“may be symptomatic of serious problems,” the FDA said.  Earlier Recalls  J&J gained 31 cents to $60.71 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Before today, the shares had fallen
5.7 percent in the previous 12 months as manufacturing issues
and labeling problems have led to dozens of recalls across the
company’s array of health products  J&J’s Cypher stent, once the market leader, held 14 percent
of worldwide sales in the fourth quarter, down from 20 percent a
year earlier, Louise Mehrotra, J&J’s vice president for  investor
relations , said on a Jan. 25 conference call. The company is
seeking approval for a new catheter to help insert Cypher stents
after its contract to use  Abbott Park , Illinois-based Abbott’s
catheter expires in April.
  The FDA’s concerns in Puerto Rico may lead to approval delays
 for new stent products if the issues aren’t fixed, said Sandra  Pound, a spokeswoman for Cordis.  “We are currently working to address the questions
raised,” Pound said today in an e-mail. “We are confident our
product remains safe and effective for use.”  Insulin Recall  J&J is also recalling 384,000 insulin cartridges that may
leak and cause pumps to deliver too little medicine, a
spokeswoman for the company’s Animas unit, Caroline Pavis, said
in an e-mail today.  Animas notified patients of the problem in a Feb. 24
 letter , saying the recall affects 2-milliliter cartridges
shipped between Nov. 30 and Jan. 4. A leaking cartridge may
prevent an insulin pump from sounding an alert over blockages in
the device’s infusion system, the letter said.  The letter said Animas had learned of “several cases” of
leaks and that any faulty cartridges would be replaced free of
charge. The recall covers five lots of cartridges in the U.S.
and a sixth in  France  and represents about 5 percent of the 8
million cartridges the division makes annually, Pavis said.
Letters were sent to 5,000 patients, she said.  The failures were traced to faulty molds used by a
Singapore contractor that makes the cartridges for Animas, she
said.  “Animas has put controls in place to detect the leak
condition for the cartridge,” Pavis said. “In addition, there
is ongoing inspection during the molding process to make sure
the condition does not recur.”  J&J recalled 40 brands of consumer medicines last year,
along with artificial hips and  contact lenses . David Floyd, the
worldwide president of its DePuy Orthopaedics unit, submitted
his resignation two weeks ago amid declining sales and lawsuits
over the hip implants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Larkin in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 