-- 
Japan Bond `Jitters' Loom as Kan Battles to Finance Deficit, Feldman Says

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   A n s t e y   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 
2011-03-08T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/japan-bond-jitters-loom-as-kan-battles-to-finance-deficit-feldman-says.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
failure to pass legislation approving an increase in bond sales
risks forcing officials to seek alternative funding methods and
unsettling investors, according to Morgan Stanley.  “I envisage jitters related to government paralysis --
yields would start to rise” without parliament enacting the
measure,  Robert Feldman , head of economic research at Morgan
Stanley in Tokyo, said in an e-mail yesterday. Among the
government’s options: diverting cash from debt sales for public
construction projects, ramping up bill issuance and, if needed
to avoid default, seeking central bank aid, according to Feldman.  Kan’s challenges are an echo of the Obama administration’s
struggle to get congressional approval for raising the federal
U.S. debt limit as developed nations grapple with the
consequence of fiscal stimulus measures adopted during the
financial crisis. In Japan, which has the world’s biggest public
debt load, Kan has seen voter support dwindle as his party is
roiled by campaign-finance violations.  Japan for now continues to enjoy the lowest government bond
yields, with benchmark 10-year notes at 1.295 percent late
yesterday in Tokyo. Similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries yielded
3.51 percent, with German bunds at 3.28 percent. Yields on so-
called JGBs remain less than their 1.48 percent average of the
past five years even as debt approached 200 percent of gross
domestic product.  Bridge Financing  The Ministry of Finance can use its authority to issue as
much as 20 trillion yen ($243 billion) of short-term securities
to keep the government financed even with the failure of the
Diet to approve Kan’s financing bills by the start of the fiscal
year that begins April 1. That may only serve as a bridge until
June, according to Feldman. Chotaro Morita, chief strategist at
Barclays Capital Japan Ltd. in Tokyo, estimates it will last
until sometime between July and September.  Morita and Feldman both ruled out the risk of Japan
defaulting, and Morita predicted lawmakers will approve deficit-
financing bond sales by the end of the current Diet session in
June. Feldman said that any emergency request for financing by
the  Bank of Japan  would likely be met.  With public support falling, Kan, 64, has been unable to
convince opposition lawmakers to authorize 44.3 trillion yen in  government bonds  to finance the budget and faces dissent in his  Democratic Party  over a push to raise the  sales tax  to cope with
soaring debt costs. Kan’s approval rating dropped to 24 percent,
the worst since he took office in June 2010, from 27 percent
last month, the Yomiuri newspaper said this week.  Debt to Swell  Japan’s debt will probably swell to 997.7 trillion yen in
the year starting April 1, the Ministry of Finance said in
January.    Standard & Poor’s  cut its sovereign rating for Japan the
same month, to the fourth-highest investment grade, citing the
lack of a “coherent strategy” for reining in borrowing. Moody’s
Investors Service lowered its outlook on Japan’s Aa2 grade, the
third highest, last month, also flagging the risk of political
gridlock, with economic and fiscal policies in danger of failing
to contain “the inexorable rise in debt.”  Feldman, who used to work at the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  and has analyzed Japan’s economy for more than two
decades, said policy “paralysis” deepened with the March 6
resignation of Foreign Minister Seiji Maehara, cited in polls as
the most popular ruling-party leader.  The Democratic Party of Japan came to office in 2009 having
unseated the  Liberal Democratic Party  that governed the nation
for almost all of the postwar period. The DPJ swept to power on
voter disillusion with the LDP’s failure to end a stream of
campaign-finance scandals that unseated Cabinet members as well
as an inability to eradicate deflation.  Now, similar issues are undermining support for Kan.
Maehara, 48, resigned after admitting he had received an illegal
campaign donation. The party was already hit by former leader  Ichiro Ozawa ’s indictment on unrelated charges of violating
campaign financing laws.  “A general election has become more likely,” Feldman said
in a research note two days ago, while adding that the likely
result would still leave Japan “extremely difficult to govern.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at  canstey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  