-- 
Japan to Revise Mining Law, Seeking $3.6 Trillion in Undersea Resources

-- B y   J a e   H u r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 
2011-03-08T08:47:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/japan-to-revise-mining-law-seeking-3-6-trillion-in-undersea-resources.html
Japan’s trade ministry plans to
streamline a mining law for the first time since 1950 to develop
seabed resources that could be worth 300 trillion yen ($3.6
trillion), amid competition from  China ,  South Korea  and  Russia .  The ministry’s move to strengthen control of natural
resources in the seabed within the country’s exclusive economic
zone, or EEZ, comes after it last year revised legislation to
allow state-owned  Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corp.  to
help domestic companies acquire mining rights overseas.  “The current mining law is outdated. It’s an issue of the
nation’s interest as China, Russia and South Korea are
conducting their own exploration in parts of our exclusive
economic zone,” said Yoshio Akiyama, executive councilor at
Mitsubishi Materials Techno Corp.  Japan is the second-largest importer of copper ore after
China and the biggest buyer of natural gas and rare earths, a
group of 17 minerals used in hybrid cars, laptops,  wind turbines 
and smart bombs. China is purchasing mines around the globe to
feed growth that accelerated by the fastest pace in three years
in 2010. South Korean companies may more than triple their
investments in minerals this year, according to the government.  The revision includes a stricter approval process, a new
tender system and a mechanism to monitor projects from the start
of exploration and test-drilling, said Tadashi Mogi, director of
fuel policy planning office at the trade ministry.  Track Records  Under the current law, there’s no regulation to check
whether applicants have adequate technology, financing, track
records and exploration and development plans, Mogi said.
Projects are automatically approved on a first-come-first-served
basis, resulting in companies receiving approval before better-
qualified firms can apply, he said in an interview March 4.  The revised law may favor major oil and metals exploration
companies such as  Inpex Corp. (1605) ,  Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. (1662) ,  JX Holdings Inc. (5020)  and Sumitomo Metal Mining Co., analysts said.  By the end of March 2010, the ministry had granted 8,179
exploration rights. Of the total, 81 percent remained
undeveloped, according to ministry data.  Total recoverable natural resources in sea-floor
hydrothermal deposits within the country’s exclusive economic
zone are estimated at 300 trillion yen as of December 2008,
according to the  Japan Project-Industry Council .  “I hope to see the law revised sooner to protect the
nation’s interest for seabed resources within the EEZ as Japan
faces tougher competition for minerals and energy to survive,”
Tetsuo Yuhara, a researcher at the  Canon Institute for Global
Studies , which does analysis on public policy, said today.  Strict Rules  “It’s natural that the government sets strict rules to
manage its own natural resources,” Jiro Iokibe, a senior
analyst at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co., said yesterday.  Zinc, copper, lead, gold and silver reserves are estimated
at 80 trillion yen and cobalt-rich crusts containing titanium,
manganese, cobalt, nickel and platinum are worth about 100
trillion yen, council data showed. Reserves of methane hydrate,
gas trapped in ice buried in sediment below the seabed, are
worth about 120 trillion yen, according to the data.  Still, “to develop a seabed copper deposit, it costs twice
or three times more than on land,” said Mitsubishi’s Akiyama.  The  Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry  will submit a
revised bill to the cabinet in the middle of this month and then
to parliament. Should parliament pass the bill in this session,
the revised law would take effect by the end of the year,
according to Mogi.  “We expect this law revision to help us focus on business
without any regulation bottlenecks,” Sadao Senda, chairman of
the Japan Mining Industry Association, said in the association’s
regular briefing in January. Senda is also president of Mitsui
Mining and Smelting Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  