-- 
Japan Drug Panel Finds No Link Between Child Deaths, Pfizer, Sanofi Shots

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-03-09T01:22:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/japan-drug-panel-finds-no-link-between-child-deaths-vaccination.html
A Japanese drug safety panel found
no link between five infants who died this month and the  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  and  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN)  vaccines they received, and said more
analysis is needed to identify the cause of the deaths.  Japan’s ministry of health temporarily suspended the use of
Pfizer’s  Prevenar , to protect children against meningitis and
pneumonia, and Sanofi’s  Act-HIB , to fight  Haemophilus influenzae
type b , on March 4. The panel in Tokyo found no abnormalities in
the products, and requested data on the safety of giving
multiple vaccines simultaneously and more analysis of the cases,
the ministry said on its website yesterday.  Underlying disorders were associated with at least three of
the deaths, the ministry’s Safety Countermeasure Committee and
Vaccines Adverse Event Committee found. It will schedule a
meeting to review more data before making a recommendation on
resuming vaccination, Pfizer said.  “Pfizer supports the health ministry’s conclusion that
there is no evidence of a causal relationship to vaccination in
these cases,” the New York-based drugmaker said in an e-mail
yesterday. “We trust that vaccination with Prevenar, including
concomitant use with other vaccines, will be resumed soon.”  Act-HIB and Prevenar continue to be used outside Japan,
their manufacturers said.  Prevenar , known as Prevnar in the U.S., is a so-called
 pneumococcal conjugate vaccine  that aims to prevent invasive
disease caused by serotypes of the Streptococcus pneumoniae
bacterium. The vaccine that protects against 13 serotypes
generated $2.42 billion last year and a shot that fights seven
serotypes had sales of $1.25 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  No Safety Concerns  Surveillance in  North America  and  Europe , where Prevenar
has been used for at least a decade, hasn’t identified any major
safety concerns, the  World Health Organization  said in a  2007
report . Evidence suggests pneumococcal conjugate vaccines will
have a “considerable impact on pneumococcal disease and overall
infant mortality,” the United Nations health agency said.  Haemophilus influenzae type b, or Hib, caused 2 million to
3 million cases of serious disease, notably pneumonia and
meningitis, and 386,000 deaths in young children in 2000,
according to the Geneva-based WHO.  More than 200 million doses of Act-HIB have been given to
children in more than 120 countries, according to Sanofi
Pasteur, the Paris-based drugmaker’s vaccines division.  “Sanofi Pasteur stands behind the safety of its Hib
vaccine,” Bernadette Hendrickx, Sanofi Pasteur’s chief medical
officer, said in a statement. “Having reviewed the data
available about Act-HIB vaccine, Sanofi Pasteur confirms the
benefit of vaccination against Hib infections to help protect
infants from this potentially devastating, but preventable
disease.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  