-- 
Kalahari Held Talks With Others Ahead of Chinese Bid For Assets in Namibia

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-03-09T17:56:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/kalahari-held-talks-with-others-before-china-bid-chairman-says.html
  Kalahari Minerals Plc (KAH) , subject of a
756 million-pound ($1.2 billion) offer from China Guangdong
Nuclear Power Group Co., said it held talks with other groups
prior to the state-owned company’s bid this week.  “Kalahari has been actively talking to a number of people,
and whether it’s Japanese, Russians, Chinese, we’ve been talking
to a full swag,” Mark Hohnen, chairman of the London-based
company, said yesterday in a phone interview. Hohnen said he
first visited the headquarters of China Guangdong in May 2009.  Kalahari closed 3 percent above the 290-pence offer price
in London trading today, signaling investors expect a higher
offer for the company, whose main asset is a stake of about 43
percent in  Australia ’s  Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT)  Rio Tinto Group,
which owns shares in both Extract and Kalahari, is a possible
counter bidder, according to Patersons Securities Ltd.  Extract has risen 16 percent in two days in Sydney, gaining
8 percent today to A$10.73, the highest since September 2009,
compared with a 0.8 percent drop in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index. It has a market value of A$2.7 billion ($2.7 billion).  Kalahari fell 0.7 percent to 299 pence by the 4:30 p.m.
close of London trading.  Extract plans to develop  Namibia ’s Husab uranium deposit, 7
kilometers (4.4 miles) from London-based Rio’s Rossing mine.  Itochu Corp. (8001) , a Japanese trading company, owns 14 percent of
Kalahari and 10 percent of Extract, Bloomberg data show.  Exemption Request    China  Guangdong said March 7 the bid is conditional on the
Australian Securities and Investment Commission granting an
exemption allowing it to buy more than 20 percent of Extract. An
agreement on an exemption from provisions of the Australian
Corporations Act may include a requirement to “make a
downstream offer to Extract shareholders,” it said.  China Guangdong wants to buy Kalahari without triggering an
offer for all of Extract, Simon Tonkin, an analyst at Patersons
Securities Ltd. in Perth, said yesterday. With Kalahari owning
43 percent of Extract, Australian rules would normally require
China Guangdong to make a bid for all of the company, he said.  The Kalahari bid should proceed only if Extract holders are
“not disadvantaged in any way” and they receive “no less than
equivalent terms to those offered to Kalahari shareholders,”
the Perth-based company said today. Extract will address “any
proposal or offer for Extract at the appropriate time.”  ‘Expect a Bid’  “I would expect they will make a downstream bid,” Hohnen
said, referring to an offer for Extract.  China Guangdong’s offer for Kalahari is 17 percent above
the average price of the target’s shares in the 20 trading days
before the announcement. That’s less than the 33 percent average
premium paid by Chinese companies for foreign mining companies
in 10 comparable deals in the past decade, Bloomberg data show.  China may raise its 2020 target for atomic power generation
to 86 gigawatts, with annual investment of 70 billion yuan
($10.7 billion), the state-run  China Daily  said Jan. 26. In
comparison, capacity may total 11.7 gigawatts by the end of
2011, the National Energy Administration said. China will
surpass the U.S. as the largest consumer of uranium during the
2020s, an energy official  told  the newspaper yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  