-- 
Kenya’s Rain Will Be ‘Below Normal’ During March-May Season

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-03-08T13:09:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/kenya-s-rain-will-be-below-normal-during-march-may-season-1-.html
Much of  Kenya , the world’s biggest
black-tea exporter, will probably receive below normal rainfall
during the March-to-May long rainy season, crimping agricultural
production, the  Kenya Meteorological Department  said.  Unseasonable dry weather in the next three months may
“slow down economic growth and development if appropriate
strategies are not put in place,” Joseph Mukabana, director of
Kenya’s weather office, said in an e-mailed statement today.  Areas expected to experience drier weather include much of
Kenya’s Eastern Province, some of the north and west sections of
Coast Province, parts of the Rift Valley Province, and Garissa,
Wajir and Mandera towns in North Eastern Province, he said.  “Depressed rainfall is expected over most agricultural
areas of the country,” Mukabana said. Farming accounts for
about a quarter of the country’s gross domestic product.  Kenya, East  Africa ’s largest economy, may expand between
6.5 percent and 8 percent over the next two years, from 5.4
percent last year, President  Mwai Kibaki  said on Feb. 27.  Distribution of precipitation is expected to be “generally
poor” over most parts of the East African nation, with arid and
semi-arid areas being the hardest hit, Mukabana said.  Less precipitation than usual fell in Kenya during the
October-to-December short rainy season because of the La Nina
weather system, which brings dry weather to east Africa.  The drought led to “poor” crop output in Kenya’s central
highlands and south-eastern region. It also resulted in food
shortages, and diminished pasture and forage, leading to
livestock deaths, in the most “drought-stricken” areas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 