-- 
KKR Names Ex-Goldman Sachs Partner Rosenberg to Head Real Estate Investing

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-03-08T14:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/kkr-names-ex-goldman-sachs-partner-rosenberg-to-head-real-estate-investing.html
KKR & Co. named Ralph Rosenberg, a
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  partner, to head global real-
estate investing.  Rosenberg will pursue property investments for KKR’s
equity, debt and special situations funds, the New York-based
private-equity firm said in a statement today. He left Goldman
Sachs in 2006 to found R6 Capital Management, a hedge fund that
invested in commercial real estate.  “Ralph brings with him 25 years of experience investing
in the real estate industry,” Henry R. Kravis and George R. Roberts, co-founders of KKR, said in the statement. “We are
very pleased Ralph has decided to join us.”  KKR and its rivals have been expanding their property
investments as they try to diversify profits beyond fees reaped
from leverage buyouts.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest
private-equity firm, said Feb. 3 that fourth-quarter profit
increased 56 percent to $512.7 million as the company benefited
from a rebound in commercial real estate.  Rosenberg co-managed a unit at New York-based Goldman Sachs
that invested in companies going through corporate events such
as mergers and bankruptcies. He previously worked for Goldman
Sachs investment funds that participated in $50 billion of
global real-estate transactions, KKR said.  Rosenberg joined Eton Park Capital Management as a partner
after the New York-based hedge fund agreed to buy R6 Capital’s
investment holdings in 2007.  While he built a 10-person investment team at R6 Capital,
he wasn’t able to expand enough to absorb the costs associated
with pursuing profitable investments around the world, according
to a November 2007 letter that Eton Park sent to its investors.
Eton Park was founded by former Goldman Sachs partner  Eric Mindich .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  