-- 
Korea Investment to Favor Three-Year Bonds as Interest Rate Rises Pause

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-03-08T23:47:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/korea-investment-to-favor-three-year-bonds-as-interest-rate-rises-pause.html
  Korea  Investment Trust Management Co.
plans to shift funds to three-year  government bonds  from longer-
dated notes, predicting the current cycle of interest-rate rises
will pause as higher oil costs threaten economic growth.  South Korea’s sixth-biggest bond fund is considering
boosting holdings of the securities and reining in purchases of
five-year Treasury notes, said Lee Do Yoon, who oversees 6
trillion won ($5.4 billion) at the Seoul-based firm. The yield
on the 3 percent debt due December 2013 fell five basis points
yesterday to 3.88 percent, Korea Stock Exchange prices show. Lee
said he’s looking to buy at a rate of 4.1 percent to 4.2 percent.  Inflation breached the  Bank of Korea ’s 4 percent target for
a second month in February, prompting the  finance ministry  to
stress on March 7 that ensuring  price stability  will be a
priority. The Bank of Korea will lift borrowing costs by 25
basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 3 percent at a policy
meeting tomorrow, according to Lee and all 15 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The central bank will then want to take a pause and see
the impact of recent rate increases on the economy and
inflation,” Lee, who’s general manager of Korea Investment
Trust’s bond fund management division, said yesterday in an
interview. “An aggressive rate hike looks unlikely as it can
undermine domestic demand and we may have to worry about a
global economic slowdown due to raging  oil prices .”  ‘Buy Time’  Policy makers raised the benchmark seven-day repurchase
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.75 percent on Jan.
13, the third increase since mid-2010. It was left unchanged at
the last meeting on Feb. 11. After tomorrow’s meeting, the Bank
of Korea is expected to hold off from increasing borrowing costs
again until June or July, Lee said.  The difference in yield between the government’s three- and
five-year bonds was 43 basis points yesterday, near the 2011 low
of 41. The gap reached 97 points on Dec. 7, the widest it’s been
since February 2009. Lee predicted the spread will shrink to 30
as the yield on the shorter-maturity debt climbs on rate-rise
expectations and once that happens “it’s buy time for the
three-year.”  “I’ve been buying long-term bonds that are less
susceptible to interest-rate hikes but will shift to three-year
bonds,” he said.  Prospects the central bank will use appreciation in the
South Korean won to battle inflation may draw more investors
from overseas seeking capital gains, said Lee. The authorities
need to rely more on the currency to ensure rising prices and  interest rates  don’t provoke social discontent, he said.  Won Appreciation  Foreigners owned 74.2 trillion won of all South Korea’s
outstanding local-currency bonds at the end of February,
equivalent to 6.6 percent of the total and little changed from
the end of last year, according to the Financial Supervisory
Service. The won has gained 0.3 percent to 1,117.82 per dollar
this year and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predict it will
strengthen a further 6.5 percent to 1,050 by the end of 2011.  “The currency can be a good buffer in taming import prices,
given our heavy dependence on imported goods, including oil,”
according to Lee.  Consumer prices climbed 4.5 percent in February from a year
earlier, the fastest pace since November 2008, government data
showed on March 2.    South Korea  relies on imports for almost all its raw
materials, energy and grains. The nation’s oil import bill rose
34 percent from a year earlier to $6.8 billion in February as
crude prices jumped, the Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said
March 1. The cost of the commodity climbed to $106.95 a barrel
in  New York  on March 7, the highest level since September 2008.
It last traded at $104.30 and is still up 14 percent this year.  “Policy makers should understand we will lose more than
gain if they stick to a weak won policy for exports for now.”
Lee said. “I see some changes in their stance.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  