-- 
OPEC Members Discussing Whether to Hold an Emergency Meeting, Kuwait Says

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-03-08T13:57:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/kuwait-says-opec-members-discussing-whether-to-have-an-urgent-meeting.html
OPEC members are discussing whether
to hold an emergency meeting and any decision on increasing oil
output would be taken then,  Kuwait ’s oil minister said.  “I’ve talked to Abdalla El-Badri in this regard and he is
calling everybody and making a consensus on whether we’ll need
an OPEC meeting, an urgent meeting,” Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al-Sabah told reporters in Kuwait City today. El-Badri is the
secretary general of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  “We have to find out at the meeting whether there is a
need for an increase or not,” the Kuwaiti minister said.  Saudi Arabia and other OPEC members have pledged to ensure
adequate supply to the market as violence in Libya reduced
output from  Africa ’s third-largest crude producer. OPEC is also
under pressure to assuage soaring fuel prices after New York-
traded oil rallied yesterday to $105.44 a barrel, the highest
closing price since September 2008 and was at $105.01 as of 1:51
p.m. London time.  “We will call everybody and they will decide if there is a
need for a meeting,” the Kuwaiti oil minister said.  Asked if the market needs more oil from OPEC, he replied:
“Not yet.” Questioned whether Kuwait will raise production by
April, he said: “It depends on the meeting, it has to be a
collective decision.”  Libyan Output Cut    Libya  has cut output by as much as 1 million barrels a day,
according to the  International Energy Agency . The North African
country pumped 1.39 million barrels a day on average in
February, down from 1.59 million the previous month, according
to Bloomberg estimates. OPEC supplies 40 percent of the world’s
oil. Still, exports continue from some parts of the country,
including the eastern port of Tobruk, Libyan oil company
officials said yesterday in Benghazi.  The organization currently has no meeting planned aside
from a conference already scheduled for June 8 in Vienna,
according to an OPEC official.  An emergency meeting can be called by the group’s secretary
general in consultation with its president, according to the
OPEC Statute. Iranian oil minister Masoud Mir-Kazemi, who
currently holds the OPEC presidency, said on Feb. 28 that there
is no need for OPEC to increase supply, the state-run  Islamic
Republic News Agency  reported.  Some OPEC members and producers outside the group have made
up for the reduction in crude shipments from Libya, Qatari
Energy Minister Mohammed Saleh al Sada said. “There was hardly
any effect” on supply because of the Libyan unrest, he said at
a conference in Doha.  Tobruk Shipments Continue  Crude-oil loading and shipments by Libya’s Arabian Gulf Oil
Co. from the rebel-held eastern port of Tobruk have been
unaffected by unrest, according to officials at the company.  A tanker was loaded yesterday with 600,000 barrels of
crude, Hassan Bolifa, head of the emergency committee at the
company and member of the management committee, said in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in Benghazi yesterday.  “Until now, the shipment of crude from the Tobruk terminal
has been as scheduled,” he said.  In the past five days a Chinese tanker loaded 1 million
barrels from the port, he said. No other tankers are scheduled
to load this month under previous agreements signed by the
parent company, state-run National Oil Corp., which is managed
by officials under Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , Bolifa said.  Goldman Sachs  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its average second quarter  New York  oil-price forecast to $99 a barrel, up $4.50 from its
previous estimate, as an increase in production by Saudi Arabia
and supply halts in Libya reduce OPEC’s ability to make up for
further disruptions.  OPEC has idle capacity of less than 2 million barrels a
day, down from 3 million in December, the bank said. Saudi
Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, is producing more
than 9 million barrels a day, or 700,000 barrels above the
official figure for January, according to Goldman.  “The real risk is that the remaining spare capacity cannot
accommodate an escalation in disruption,” analysts led by  David Greely  in New York wrote in the report. “The current
developments in Libya have therefore brought forward the
drawdown of OPEC spare capacity by about six months.”  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt 
and there have been protests in countries including  Iran , Yemen
and Oman. Websites in Saudi Arabia have called for a nationwide
“Day of Rage” on March 11 and March 20, according to Human
Rights Watch.  Over Quota  Even before the Libyan unrest, most OPEC members were
producing more than their individual quotas.  In late 2008, responding to falling prices and demand, OPEC
agreed to its biggest-ever output cut of 4.2 million barrels a
day. Adherence to that pledge has faded as prices advanced
through 2009 and 2010.  Daily output from the 11 members bound by quotas was 27.01
million barrels a day in January, according to the latest
monthly report from the group’s Vienna-based secretariat,
implying that compliance with the cutback had declined to 48
percent.  OPEC’s members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran,  Iraq ,
Kuwait, Libya,  Nigeria ,  Qatar ,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and  Venezuela . Iraq is exempt from the quota system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net 
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  