-- 
Near-Junk Rated Securities Studied in EU Plans to Curb Risk

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-03-08T12:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/near-junk-rated-securities-studied-in-eu-plans-to-curb-bank-risk.html
European banks may be allowed to use
near-junk rated securities to reduce the amount of reserves they
hold against potential losses, under draft capital rules being
considered by the  European Union  to reduce risk.  Banks could accept “debt securities constituting
securitization positions” rated as low as BBB- by  Fitch Ratings 
and Standard and Poor’s, or Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service,
as collateral from debtors to minimize the amount of capital
they need to hold in reserve, according to a draft European
Commission document obtained by Bloomberg News. The ratings are
the lowest investment-grade rankings that the companies confer
on securities.  “What is surprising is extending the list of collateral to
include securitizations, even when they’re rated BBB-,” Irina
Sinclair, a London-based financial regulation lawyer at  Allen &
Overy  LLP, said in a telephone interview. “It’s quite a low
rating. Eligible collateral is usually cash, gold and liquid
assets such as equities.”  The draft measures, drawn up by the EU’s executive arm, are
part of the bloc’s implementation of globally approved capital
rules known as Basel III, which were written by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision . The Group of 20 nations has
sought to bolster banks’ liquidity and capital to prevent a
repeat of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.  A securitization is a pool of debt-based assets such as
commercial mortgages or  car loans , which can be traded by
investors.  Testing Ideas  European banks could accept securitizations whose rating
“had not deteriorated below” investment grade as “eligible
collateral under all approaches and methods,” the document
said.    Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner,
promised to submit formal proposals by the end of the year.  The commission “is testing lots of ideas out and getting
different points of view” on the proposals, Chantal Hughes,
Barnier’s spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview in
Brussels.  Other assets to be approved as collateral include gold,
“debt securities issued by regional governments or local
authorities,” and “debt securities issued by institutions”
with a credit rating of A1 from Moody’s or A+ from Fitch and
Standard and Poor’s according to the document.  EU proposals need approval from lawmakers at the  European
Parliament  and ministers from the 27 EU nations before they can
take effect.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  