-- 
Netflix Falls as Warner Bros. Offers Facebook Movies

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s ,   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-03-08T21:16:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/netflix-falls-as-warner-bros-starts-offering-movies-on-facebook.html
  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the mail-order and
online movie-rental service, dropped 5.8 percent in Nasdaq
trading after Warner Bros. said it will offer films for purchase
or rental through Facebook Inc.  Netflix fell $11.95 to $195.45 at 4 p.m. New York time.
Before today, the stock had gained 11 percent this year and more
than tripled in 2010.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , Warner Bros.’ parent,
lost 35 cents to $36.43 on the New York Stock Exchange.  Time Warner has said Netflix’s $7.99-a-month streaming
service devalues films and TV shows. The deal announced today
lets the Burbank, California-based studio reach consumers
through Facebook’s more than 500 million active users. Users can
click a “rent” icon and pay the equivalent of $3 with Facebook
Credits. Facebook gets a slice of sales when credits are used.  “The $3 rental appears to preserve the value of content in
studios’ eyes,” Youssef H. Squali, a Jefferies & Co. analyst
who has a “hold” rating on Netflix, wrote in a research note.
Other studios may follow, given Facebook’s larger platform and
the potential to make money off a-la-carte rentals, he said.  The Warner Bros. service isn’t an immediate threat to
Netflix because it offers only pay-per-view, isn’t available at
a centralized storefront and can’t easily be viewed on larger-
screen televisions, James Mitchell, an analyst with Goldman,
Sachs & Co., said in his research note today.  Facebook Pages    Steve Swasey , a spokesman for  Los Gatos , California-based
Netflix, declined to comment on today’s announcement.  Under the arrangement, selected movies will be available on
each film’s  official Facebook page , starting today with “The  Dark Knight ,” Burbank, California-based Warner Bros. said in a
statement. The Facebook test joins Amazon.com Inc., which
introduced a movie download service in February through its
Prime business, Comcast Corp.’s TV Everywhere initiative and
Time Warner’s HBO Go.  “Facebook has become a daily destination for hundreds of
millions of people,” Thomas Gewecke, president of Warner Bros.
Digital Distribution, said in the statement. “Making our films
available through Facebook is a natural extension of our digital
distribution efforts.”  Renting a movie through Facebook costs 30 Facebook Credits,
or $3. Viewers have 48 hours to watch the films.  Netflix ships DVDs to subscribers by mail and streams older
titles from Hollywood studios. It has agreements to stream
titles from the premium cable channels Starz and Epix, and
struck a deal in July with Relativity Media LLC for exclusive
streaming rights to first-run movies, including “The Fighter.”
Its subscribers topped 20 million at year end.  Warner’s arrangement with Facebook extends to all devices
that offer the social network, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  products.  With Facebook, Warner also gains global distribution of its
titles, including China, Russia and  Portugal , Laura Aguilera, an
analyst for IHS Screen Digest, said in a note today.  Netflix offers its streaming service in the U.S. and  Canada . The company is looking to expand internationally this
year, Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings said in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clifford Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net 
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 Asherman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  