-- 
New Zealand Blitzes Pakistan at Cricket World Cup; England's Broad Is Out

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   C h r i s   E l s e r
-- 
2011-03-08T22:33:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/new-zealand-beats-pakistan-by-110-runs-as-taylor-reaches-131-from-7-sixes.html
Ross Taylor smashed a career-best
131 as  New Zealand  beat Pakistan by 110 runs to move atop their
group at the Cricket  World Cup .  New Zealand hit 100 runs from the last five overs to finish
at 302-7 in Kandy,  Sri Lanka , yesterday. Taylor struck 62 from
16 balls and Jacob Oram 25 from 9. Pakistan lost four early
wickets on its way to 192 all out in reply.  Taylor, who was dropped on 8 by wicketkeeper Kamran Akmal,
celebrated his 27th birthday by finishing not out in his 124-
ball innings as New Zealand went atop Group A with six points,
ahead of Pakistan on run rate. The top four teams in each seven-
team group move to the quarterfinals.  “I had a bit of luck early on which I put down to my
birthday but towards the end there I hit a few boundaries which
was pretty sweet,” Taylor said at the post-match presentation.
“One of our strengths is the power we have down the bottom and
it showed today.”  Fast bowlers Tim Southee and Kyle Mills backed up the power
hitting by reducing Pakistan to 45-5 inside 15 overs, a position
from which the 1992 world champion never recovered. Southee
finished with 3-25, while Mills took 2-43.  Pakistan, which also has six points from four matches, was
the only nation with a perfect record at this year’s tournament
before yesterday. Co-host  India  faces the Netherlands in today’s
Group B match in  New Delhi .  Injured Bowlers  New Zealand’s victory was tempered by an injury to Black
Caps captain Daniel Vettori, who hurt his right knee while
attempting a catch early during Pakistan’s innings. Vettori, the
team’s front-line spinner, didn’t return to the field.  “Hopefully it’s just a bit of jarring,” Taylor said.
“He’s key to our team and we need him for the rest of the
tournament.”  England lost its second player in as many day when seam
bowler  Stuart Broad  was ruled out of the rest of the competition
because of a side strain.  Broad, 24, sustained the injury during  England ’s six-run
win over  South Africa  three days ago, when he took 4-15 to help
secure the victory. He’ll return to the U.K. from India for
treatment, the England and Wales Cricket Board said.  “This is a new injury, separate from the abdominal tear
suffered during the Ashes, that requires a period of
recuperation and rehabilitation,” Nick Peirce, the ECB’s chief
medical officer, said in the statement.  A replacement player for Broad is yet to be chosen, though  Chris Tremlett  is on standby with the squad.  Batsman Kevin Pietersen left the team two days ago to
undergo surgery on a hernia and has been replaced by Eoin Morgan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ; or
Chris Elser in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  