-- 
New York Mets Sale Terms Put Off Michael Repole From Considering an Offer

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-03-08T12:26:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/new-york-mets-sale-terms-deter-michael-repole-from-considering-an-offer.html
Michael Repole won’t consider
bidding for a stake in the  New York Mets  unless the team’s
owners change the terms of the sale.  Repole, who co-founded Glaceau Vitaminwater before it was
sold to Coca-Cola Co. for $4.1 billion in 2007, said he isn’t
interested in investing in the Major League Baseball club if he
has no say in its operations.  Fred and  Jeff Wilpon  said in January they’re seeking to
sell as much as a quarter of the Mets to raise money to settle a
lawsuit stemming from the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history,
conducted by Bernard L. Madoff.  “Twenty-five percent and no real voting power, no real
control; it’s cheaper to buy front-row tickets,” Repole said
last night in a telephone interview. “If the deal changes, they
know where to find me.”  Repole, 42, who dreamed about being the Mets’ general
manager after college graduation, has majority interests in
 Pirate Brands , the maker of Pirate Booty snacks, and  Energy
Kitchen , a chain of health-conscious fast-food restaurants.  Repole said Jan. 30 he’d be interested in pursuing a stake
in the Mets. He said he changed his mind after his financial
team talked to Steve Greenberg, a managing director at Allen &
Co., who was hired by the Wilpons to address the situation
created by the Madoff lawsuit.  Deal Doesn’t Work  “A lot has changed since the day the deal was announced,”
Repole said. “This deal might work for someone. For me,
personally, it doesn’t.”  Tampa Bay Rays owner Stuart Sternberg two weeks ago denied
he’s interested in buying a stake in the Mets, the Tampa Tribune
said March 4. Rays minority owner Randy Frankel is part of a
group that has applied to see the Mets’ financial records, the  New York  Times said March 3.  Billionaire real estate developer  Donald Trump  contacted
the Wilpons expressing an interest in buying a majority stake in
the team, the Times said Feb. 15. A day later, Mets owners said
they’re not willing to sell control of the club.  Also on Feb. 15, executives from the investment bank and
brokerage firm Tritaurian Capital Inc. created  BuyTheMets.com .
The website is seeking to sell $999 shares in an ownership group
that would give fans a voice in running the team.  James F. McCann, the founder and chairman of 1-800-
flowers.com, is part of a group that’s seeking to buy a piece of
the team, the Times said today. The group also includes Anthony Scaramucci, a managing partner at asset-management company
SkyBridge, the report said.  Madoff Lawsuit  In the lawsuit, filed Dec. 7 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan , Sterling Equities Inc., the owner of the Mets, was
sued along with Mets LP and the Wilpons by  Irving Picard , who is
liquidating the Madoff business on behalf of its victims.  Picard said the Mets had two accounts with Madoff that
involved taking out $47.8 million more than the Wilpons
invested.  Two weeks after the Wilpons said they were looking for
investment, Picard made public his plans to seek $300 million in
alleged phony profits made by Sterling Equities and as much as
$700 million in principal, his lawyer, David Sheehan, said.  In court filings, Picard claims the Mets owners used $90
million in Madoff profits for day-to-day operations, blinding
them to “red flags” signaling that Madoff was a fraud.  Mets Chairman Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz, the team’s
president, have called Picard’s claims “abusive, unfair and
untrue.”  Keeping Control  The Mets have the third-highest value in the major leagues
at $858 million, behind the Yankees ($1.6 billion) and  Boston
Red Sox  ($870 million), Forbes magazine said in April.  A sale of 20 percent to 25 percent would be worth $171.6
million to $214.5 million, based on the Forbes figures.  As a 6-year-old, Repole, a Queens, New York, native, would
fall asleep listening to Mets games on the radio. For the past
15 years, he has owned season tickets two rows behind third
base.  Repole’s thoroughbred racehorse Uncle Mo, the 2011 Kentucky
Derby favorite, wears orange and blue silks, the colors of the
Mets.  “I respect the Wilpons,” Repole said. “But a partnership
has to work both ways.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  