-- 
News Corp. Settles Lawsuit Against IMG Worldwide Over Rights to Daily Name

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-03-08T23:30:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/news-corp-settles-lawsuit-against-img-over-the-daily.html
A unit of  News Corp. (NWSA) , which
introduced a tablet computer news publication called The Daily,
settled a lawsuit against IMG Worldwide Inc. over rights to the
name The Daily.  “We reached a settlement and we’re pleased,” Jack Horner,
a spokesman for New York-based News Corp., said today in a
telephone interview. He declined to disclose terms of the
agreement.  The Daily Holdings Inc., the News Corp. unit, dismissed the
lawsuit filed in December, according to a filing today in U.S.
District Court in  Manhattan  that didn’t give a reason. The
company said in court papers that IMG had claimed common-law
trademark rights to the name The Daily.  News Corp. introduced The Daily, a subscription newspaper
for users of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad tablet computer, in February. IMG
Worldwide published a fashion-industry publication called The
Daily Front Row.  IMG sold The Daily Front Row in early January and had no
comment on the lawsuit, Jim Gallagher, a spokesman for IMG, said
in an e-mail.  The Daily Front Row was sold to its editor, Brandusa Niro,
and a company called DFR, according to an amended complaint
filed in February by the News Corp. unit. IMG transferred the
trademark rights to the new owner, News Corp. said.  Niro didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment.  ‘Simple Proposition’  IMG contacted News Corp. in November after it heard of
plans to introduce the tablet newspaper and said it owned the
rights to The Daily, News Corp. said in the complaint. The
complaint was filed because News Corp. anticipated a lawsuit
from IMG.  “This case is brought to confirm the simple proposition
that nobody can own the words ‘The Daily’ when used in the name
of a media outlet,” lawyers for Daily Holdings said in the
amended complaint.  News Corp.’s digital Daily newspaper features general news,
sports, arts and opinion.  News Corp. owns the Fox Television Network, the Twentieth
Century Fox film studio and The Wall Street Journal. IMG
Worldwide produces and distributes sports programming and
represents people in the sports, entertainment and fashion
industries.  The case is The Daily Holdings Inc. v. IMG Worldwide Inc.,
10-9204, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  