-- 
NewWave Said to Seek to Extend Loan Maturity for Acquisition

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 
2011-03-08T22:40:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/newwave-said-to-seek-to-extend-loan-maturity-for-acquisition.html
NewWave Communications is seeking to
extend the maturity and increase the size of its  term loan  to
$197 million as part of its acquisition of Avenue Broadband LLC,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The  cable television , Internet and digital telephone
service provider is offering to pay lenders 4 percentage points
more than the London interbank offered rate to extend the
maturity of its existing term loan to June 2015, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private.  The loan will have a floor on the benchmark of 1.5 percent,
and be sold at a discount, the person said. A $65 million add-on
loan, which would take total term debt to about $197 million,
will pay the same interest rate, the person said.  NewWave, which is based in Sikeston,  Missouri , and is  owned 
by Pamlico Capital, currently pays lenders 3 percentage points
more than Libor. The loan, which matures in two years, doesn’t
have a floor on the benchmark, the person said. Libor is the
rate the banks charge to lend to each other.  Lenders must let loan arranger GE Capital Markets, the
lending unit of General Electric Co., know by March 22 if they
will participate, the person said. The company also has a $30
million revolving line of credit and mezzanine debt, the person
said.  Avenue, a majority-owned investment of MCG Capital Corp.,
signed an agreement to sell all outstanding shares of its
capital stock to Telecommunications Management LLC, a subsidiary
of NewWave, according to a Feb. 16 news release.  Scott Perper, managing partner at  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Pamlico, didn’t immediately return a telephone
call seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  