-- 
NFL, Union Still Talking With Mediator on How to Split $9 Billion Revenue

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-03-09T15:36:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/nfl-union-hold-13th-day-of-mediation-to-avoid-stoppage-under-extension.html
Representatives of the  National
Football League  and its players union started a 14th day of
meetings with a federal mediator in  Washington  about how to
divide almost $9 billion in revenue, the most of any sports
league.  The NFL Players Association rejected an offer from the
league to reveal audited profitability data for all 32 teams for
the past several years, the New York Times reported last night.
Union leaders want each club’s audited full financial
statements, the newspaper said, citing two unidentified people
familiar with the talks.  Jeff Pash, the league’s chief negotiator, said today that
the NFL has made more financial information available during
these negotiations than in decades of collective bargaining with
the NFL Players Association.  “We’ve made it clear we’re willing to work with them on it
and I’m hoping we’ll be able to get past that if that remains a
serious problem,” Pash told reporters before he entered
mediation. “I think issues of transparency should be behind us
or should be behind us in short order.”  The sides are in a weeklong extension of the league’s
collective bargaining agreement with players, which was set to
expire after March 3. Had the agreement lapsed, owners could
have locked out players, shutting down the most popular U.S.
sport for the first time since 1987. Also, players could have
abandoned the union’s role in talks and begun antitrust
lawsuits.  George H. Cohen, head of the Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service who last year brokered a deal between  Major
League Soccer  and its players, said the extension ends the
evening of March 11.  ‘Give a Little Bit’  “What I’m hearing is the NFL has started to give a little
bit,” Washington Redskins linebacker London Fletcher, the
team’s former union representative, said today on ESPN radio.
“But there’s still not enough transparency to get a deal done.
I’m an optimistic person, but I’m not very optimistic that
something will get done by this Friday.”  Such disagreements don’t make it impossible to reach an
accord, New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft told  Comcast
SportsNet New England  yesterday.  “We’re doing everything we can to get a deal
consummated,” Kraft said. “I personally believe it’s
possible.”  NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell and  DeMaurice Smith ,
executive director of the union, have declined to discuss the
specifics of talks, at the request of Cohen.  Opt Out  Owners voted in 2008 to opt out of the labor deal, saying
it didn’t account for costs such as those to build and maintain
stadiums. Along with what share of revenue players should get,
topics have included expanding the regular season to 18 games
from 16, a rookie wage scale and health care.  The league wants to double the amount of revenue set aside
for expenses before paying players, according to the union.
Under the expiring agreement, about $1 billion is set aside
before player payrolls are calculated, dedicated to costs
related to stadiums, marketing, NFL.com and NFL Network,
according to Smith.  Another Extension  Brad Blank, agent for players including New York Jets
tackle D’Brickashaw Ferguson and the Giants’ Chris Canty, said
he expects another extension to the deadline while talks
continue.  “The owners don’t want to go nuclear, that became clear
last week,” Blank said in a telephone interview. “There’s a
number that will work. I don’t know what it is, but it’s
probably somewhere between zero and $750 million.”  This week’s extension came three days after U.S. District
Judge David Doty in  Minneapolis  ruled that team owners
improperly negotiated $4 billion in television rights fees they
might have tapped in a work stoppage. He will consider damages
in a yet-to-be-scheduled hearing.  Doty, ruling on March 1, overturned an arbitrator’s
decision rejecting a union complaint that the NFL improperly
negotiated to receive broadcast rights fees from its most-
important television partners --  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,  News Corp (NWSA) ’s Fox,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN and  DirecTV (DTV)  -- even
if a work stoppage cancels games in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  