-- 
Arab Countries May Back No-Fly Zone for Libya Within Days, Ambassador Says

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-03-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/no-fly-zone-over-libya-is-likely-to-win-arab-league-s-support-envoy-says.html
The  Arab League  feels a “sense of
urgency” over violence in Libya and may call this week for a
no-fly zone to shield civilians and rebels from further attacks
by Muammar Qaddafi’s forces, the Arab League’s ambassador in
Washington said.  “The no-fly zone, I think, is now the objective of the
international community,” Hussein Hassouna, the Arab League
envoy to the U.S., said in an interview at Bloomberg’s
Washington bureau yesterday. “We’ve seen every day the battles
are raging and there are more casualties, so I would think that
within a week, something might have to be enforced. If we leave
this for too long, things will be worse and worse for the
people.”  Hassouna said the “eccentric” Qaddafi has the means to
stay in power “for some time” with help from his sons and
mercenaries, and perhaps from “missiles that he hasn’t used.”
Qaddafi, 68, won’t “leave by his own free will,” Hassouna
predicted.  If the Arab League’s 22 member countries endorse a no-fly
zone over  Libya  at a crisis meeting in Cairo on March 12,
Hassouna said he believes that the  United Nations Security
Council  and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization will respect
the sentiment of the region’s leaders and could follow suit.  “I think by next week the United Nations will probably
also take a position on that, and then we’ll see what the NATO
countries will do,” he said.  UN Decision  The Obama administration has neither endorsed nor ruled out
the imposition of a no-fly zone. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , speaking yesterday to Sky News, suggested that the U.S.
would participate only if the international community supports
such an action.  “We think it’s important that the  United Nations  make this
decision, not the United States. And so far, the United Nations
has not done that,” she said.  Hassouna warned that Arab countries “are not in favor of
foreign military intervention,” and he predicted that no ground
troops would be sent to Libya. In the longer term, he said, if
Libyan rebels gain credibility as a legitimate national
movement, some countries may help supply weapons. A rebel
council has requested recognition by the UN and other
international organizations.  Hassouna acknowledged that “once you start a military
step, there’s always a danger of escalation” and said there
were “many scenarios” of how Qaddafi might retaliate,
including cutting off Libya’s oil supply or unleashing missiles.  Oil Production Cut  Violence in Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest crude oil
producer, has cut output by as much as 1 million barrels a day,
according to the  International Energy Agency . The North African
country pumped 1.39 million barrels a day in February, down from
1.59 million the previous month, according to Bloomberg
estimates.  Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries and oil producers outside the group have made up for
the cut in crude shipments from Libya, Qatar’s oil minister,
Mohammed Saleh Al Sada, said yesterday.  NATO Involvement  NATO defense ministers, who have ordered increased
surveillance of Libya’s airspace, are scheduled to meet in
Brussels on March 10 and March 11 to discuss alliance
involvement in Libya.  Ivo Daalder, the U.S. ambassador to NATO, said he had urged
the alliance to consider how it might deploy aircraft, ships and
surveillance equipment to enforce a no-fly zone, though NATO’s
members haven’t decided what action, if any, to take.  “Towards the end of the week, we will be in a position to
know what it would take to do a no-fly zone,” he said March 7.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has said that a
successful campaign would require attacking Libya’s air defenses
and that a no-fly zone would be complicated to enforce.  Members of Congress -- including Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the top Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, and Senator  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat and
the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee -- have
called for a no-fly zone, saying such a measure isn’t as
difficult as the administration suggests.  ‘Changed for Good’  Speaking about the popular uprisings that ousted Tunisian
President Zine Al Abidine Ben Aliand Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  and have spread throughout the Arab world, Hassouna said
the “region will be changed for good.”  Hassouna, an Egyptian diplomat for three decades before he
became an Arab League representative, praised  Egypt ’s uprising
for being youth-led, inclusive across religious and gender
lines, and peaceful. He called on the U.S. to assist Egypt’s
democratic transition by considering a free-trade agreement or
debt-forgiveness, along with increased economic aid, especially
for education and scientific research.  “It will be good if there are concrete steps of support,
not just verbal support,” he said, adding, “The  United States 
should encourage the change, but not try to direct it. This is
an Egyptian story, an Arab story.”  Hassouna said the popular demands for greater democracy,
economic opportunity and “dignity” are contagious and “this
bug is going to affect everyone” in the region, if not always
in the same way.  Different Pressures  Kingdoms face different political and social pressures than
do republics, while oil-rich Gulf nations have more resources
than poor African states, he said.  Saudi Arabia ,  Morocco  and
other monarchies whose rulers have religious as well as
political clout may weather the storm better than others, he
said.  Yemen, with high levels of poverty and a strong rebel
movement, is a country of special concern. President Ali Abdullah Saleh has promised to not seek to renew his mandate
after 2013, he said.  “Once the dust settles” on Arab political turmoil,
Hassouna said he hopes attention will return to the “core issue
in the region,” the Arab-Israeli conflict, and that all sides
will make a “strong push for peace.” He called on  Israel  to
freeze settlements as a “significant gesture to help in this
process.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  