-- 
Notre Dame Ends Use of Lifts to Videotape Practice After Student's Death

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-03-08T15:10:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/notre-dame-ends-use-of-lifts-to-videotape-practice-after-student-s-death.html
The  University of Notre Dame  will no
longer use hydraulic scissor lifts to videotape football
practices, following the October death of a student when a lift
toppled in high winds.  The  South Bend ,  Indiana , school will begin construction of
a remote video system at its practice fields today, mounting
four cameras on 50-foot poles, Notre Dame said on its  website.   The announcement follows the Oct. 27 death of 20-year-old
Declan Sullivan, who was recording an afternoon practice from a
lift when it fell over.  “I said in the days after Declan’s death that we would do
everything in our power to make changes to ensure that such an
accident does not happen again -- here or elsewhere,”  John Jenkins , Notre Dame’s president, said in a statement. “This
system puts safety at the forefront in a completely new and
innovative way.”  The South Bend area was under a hazardous-weather outlook
that called for sustained winds of 25 to 35 miles per hour with
gusts of 45 miles per hour (72 kilometers per hour) on the day
Sullivan died, according to the  National Weather Service .  The Indiana Occupational Safety and Health Administration
is investigating the accident, while  Notre Dame  asked Peter Likins, the former president of the University of  Arizona , to
independently review the school’s actions. The school said today
that neither inquiry is complete.  In a  Nov. 5 letter  to students and staff, Jenkins placed
the blame for the accident on the university.  School Failed  “Declan Sullivan was entrusted to our care, and we failed
to keep him safe,” said Jenkins, who is a Catholic priest.  Three days after his death, the Fighting Irish honored
Sullivan with a moment of silence and prayer prior to a home
game against Tulsa. Both teams wore shamrock decals with the
letters DS on their helmets in his memory.  Notre Dame said it is in discussions with Sullivan’s family
to determine how it can best honor his legacy.  “We are committed to memorializing Delcan’s zest for life
and presence at Notre Dame in a meaningful and lasting way,”
Jenkins said. “Our conversations with his family members will
shape Notre Dame’s memorials of Declan in a manner that give
authentic and proper tribute to their son and brother.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 