-- 
Obama, Cameron Agree Qaddafi Must Go `Quickly' Amid Attacks on Civilians

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-03-08T23:58:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/obama-cameron-agree-qaddafi-must-go-quickly-amid-attacks-on-civilians.html
President  Barack Obama  and U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  agree that Libyan leader Muammar Qaddafi must step down “as quickly as possible,” and are
reviewing with NATO allies possible responses to the violence in
the North African nation, the White House said in a statement
today.  Obama and Cameron agreed to press forward with planning for
“the full spectrum of possible responses,” according to the
White House statement. That includes humanitarian assistance,
enforcement of an arms embargo and imposition of a no-fly zone,
according to statements from the White House and the prime
minister’s office.  The “common objective in Libya must be an immediate end to
brutality and violence; the departure of Qaddafi from power as
quickly as possible; and a transition that meets the Libyan
peoples’ aspirations” for freedom and a representative
government, the U.S. statement said.  The U.S. is emphasizing that a decision on military steps,
such as creation of a no-fly zone, must have broad international
support.  “It’s important that the  United Nations  make this
decision, not the United States,” Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in an interview with Sky News in the U.K.  Ready to Act  In  London , Cameron said in a BBC interview that Qaddafi
must leave and that the international community must be ready to
act if the violence in Libya continues.  “We have to prepare for what we might have to do if he
keeps on brutalizing his own people,” Cameron said of Qaddafi
on the BBC’s “The One Show” in London today.  White House press secretary Jay Carney said no decisions
have been made on what steps to take next.  Establishing a no-fly zone to prevent Libyan aircraft from
killing people “is an option we are considering,” though it
carries “complexities,” Carney told reporters traveling with
Obama to an event in Boston.  Pressure is increasing in the U.S. for the administration
to act. Senior senators, including Foreign Relations Committee
Chairman  John Kerry , a Massachusetts Democrat, and Arizona
Republican  John McCain  are among the lawmakers who have said
they would back imposing a no-fly zone over Libya.  Oil Price Increase  Carney said the administration is “mindful of the rise in
oil prices” as a result of unrest in the Middle East and North
Africa. Libya is Africa’s third-largest crude oil producer,
though its output accounts for less than 2 percent of global
supply.  The U.S. is in “regular discussions” with the
International Energy Agency and oil-producing countries, Carney
said. “The global system has a variety of means of dealing with
a major disruption, should that occur,” he said.  Crude oil fell from a 29-month high in  New York  after
Kuwait’s oil minister said that OPEC members are considering
whether to convene an “urgent meeting.” Oil for April delivery
dropped 42 cents to settle at $105.02 a barrel on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Futures are up 28 percent from a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 