-- 
Obama Threatens Veto of Two Bills That Would Kill Housing Aid

-- B y   J o e   S o b c z y k   a n d   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 
2011-03-08T23:16:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/obama-threatens-veto-of-two-bills-that-would-kill-housing-aid.html
The Obama administration threatened
to veto two measures being pushed by U.S.  House Republicans  that
would eliminate programs aimed at helping people who are
struggling to pay their mortgages, the administration said.  The  House of Representatives  is set to vote this week to
kill an effort to lower mortgage payments for so-called
underwater borrowers as well as an emergency fund for homeowners
who have lost their incomes.  A statement from the White House Office of Management and
Budget said the administration “strongly opposes” legislation
that would cut the Federal Housing Administration Short Refi
Option program and the Department of Housing and Urban
Development’s Emergency Homeowners Loan Program. President  Barack Obama ’s advisers would recommend that he veto the bills
if they reach his desk.  The FHA program is tailored for borrowers whose home values
have dropped below the amount still owed on the mortgage. If
lenders volunteer to write down at least 10 percent of a loan’s
principal, the FHA refinances the remaining debt, often at a
lower, more affordable rate.  Forty-four loans have been modified under the program since
it began in September, according to the FHA. Because no
borrowers have defaulted, the program has cost nothing so far,
according to the FHA. The administration statement called it
“vital to the nation’s sustained economic recovery.”  The Emergency Homeowners Loan Program targeted by the panel
remains in the planning stages. It would provide temporary,
interest-free loans to borrowers who have lost their jobs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Sobczyk in  Washington  at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net ;
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 Lwoellert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  