-- 
Obama Says U.S. Can’t Sacrifice Education in Cutting Deficit

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-03-09T00:18:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/obama-promotes-90-million-technology-fund-to-aid-education.html
President  Barack Obama  said the U.S.
can’t sacrifice spending on education as government works to
reduce record budget deficits.  Trimming money for schools will harm future economic growth
by failing to provide workers with necessary training, Obama
said at a Boston school.  “There’s no better economic policy than one that produces
more graduates with the skills they need to succeed,” Obama
said at  TechBoston Academy , a public high school in Boston that
emphasizes the use of the most recent technology in classrooms.  Obama has made education a centerpiece of his agenda to
bolster U.S. economic competitiveness. Amid a debate with
Republican lawmakers over how to trim the $3.7 trillion budget,
the president is proposing to shift money from other departments
and programs in order to provide more money to fund his
education priorities. Among these are increasing the number of
science, technology and mathematics teachers and producing an
additional 8 million college graduates by 2020.  “Even as we find ways to cut spending we cannot cut back
on job-creating investments like education,” Obama said. “We
cannot cut back on the very investments that will help our
economy grow.”  The administration forecasts the deficit will hit a record
$1.6 trillion this year. Republicans are pushing to cut $61
billion from spending for the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30,
which Democrats argue would slash vital programs.  Cooperative Venture  In his visit to TechBoston, Obama highlighted the
importance of schools, communities, businesses and
philanthropists working together to improve student performance.  The academy, a Boston public school, was founded in 2002
with backing from the  Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation . It has
received support from companies including  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,  Lenovo Group Ltd. (LNVGY)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)     Melinda Gates , the wife of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  founder Bill Gates, who introduced Obama at the event, said education is the
top priority for the foundation in the U.S.  “Nothing means more for the future of our country” than
improving the education system, Gates said.  In his fiscal 2012 budget, Obama proposed putting $90
million into a fund for education technology that he said will
help spark a transformation in schools.  The money would help the U.S. education system catch up
with other areas of society that have been transformed by
advancements in technology, said Education Secretary  Arne Duncan .  Transformation  “Technology has transformed how folks do business; it’s
transformed how folks interact socially,” Duncan told reporters
on a conference call yesterday. “But technology, frankly,
hasn’t had that kind of impact on the education space yet.”  The president is planning multiple trips around the country
in the coming weeks to talk about education, said  Jen Psaki , the
White House’s deputy communications director.  On March 4, Obama visited a Miami high school, where he
told students that the future of the nation’s economy depends on
schools being able to produce highly skilled workers.  The administration wants to coordinate work among
businesses, philanthropists and local governments to improve
schools.  “Many sectors of the economy have utilized public-private
partnerships,” said Melody Barnes, the White House domestic
policy director. “The education sector shouldn’t be any
different.”  Technology Fund  Establishment of the education technology fund requires
congressional approval. Money would be awarded to groups outside
of government that have good ideas for using technology to
improve education. Duncan said it would be similar to the
 Defense Department technology research program  that led to the
creation of the Internet.  “There’s tremendous untapped potential,” he said.  Before returning to Washington tonight, Obama attended a $1
million fundraiser for Democratic congressional candidates at
the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston. He kicked off fundraising for
the 2012 elections last week in  Florida , where he raised $1
million for Democratic Senate candidates.  Obama told donors he needs their support so that the
country makes the right spending decisions in the future.  “This has to do with whether the decisions we make now
ensure the American dream is strong, vibrant for the next
generation and the generation after that,” Obama said. “That’s
what’s at stake.”  Obama, an avid basketball fan, met briefly with some
members of the  National Basketball Association ’s  Boston Celtics 
and head coach Doc Rivers at the museum before the political
event. The meeting was closed to the news media.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in  Boston  at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  