-- 
Offshore Bonds Triple as Banks Provide M&A Funds: India Credit

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 
2011-03-09T07:06:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/offshore-bonds-triple-as-banks-provide-m-a-funds-india-credit.html
Indian banks are selling the most
foreign-currency bonds since before the credit crisis as their
customers expand overseas at a record pace.  Lenders raised $3.7 billion from non-rupee bonds this year,
more than triple the same period of 2010 and the busiest start
since 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Their total
equals 90 percent of sales by South Korean banks,  Asia ’s biggest
foreign-currency borrowers, which issued $4.1 billion of notes
this year, the data show.  Banks in Asia’s third-largest economy are selling more
bonds denominated in currencies other than rupees after mergers
and acquisitions climbed to a record $43.2 billion last year,
with at least half the transactions involving local companies
such as Bharti Airtel Ltd. buying a foreign business, according
to  Standard & Poor’s . Dollar bonds in India yield an average
5.27 percent compared with 3.86 percent for U.S. currency debt
in  Korea , HSBC Holdings Plc indexes show.  “At this rate Indian banks could challenge Korean banks as
Asia’s number one bank issuer,” Desmond Lee, a credit analyst
for Morgan Stanley, said in a March 7 phone interview from  Hong
Kong . “Their overseas business is expanding as they support
Indian corporate customers, who in turn are rapidly growing
abroad both organically and via M&A.”  Sale Revival  Export-Import Bank of India sold 20 billion yen ($243
million) of 1.88 percent, 10-year Samurai notes this month in
its first sale of the securities for 4 1/2 years, according to
Bloomberg data.  Canara Bank (CBK) , based in Bangalore, raised $350
million from 5.125 percent notes due 2016 on Mar. 3 in its first
dollar offering since 2006. The notes were priced to yield 295
basis points, or 2.95 percentage points, more than Treasuries.  The relative yield on Canara’s notes dropped 31 basis
points to 264 since issue as the spread on  State Bank of India (SBIN) ’s
$850 million of 4.5 percent, five-year notes due 2014 narrowed 2
basis points to 219 in the period, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc prices show.  While existing bank bonds may come under pressure on supply
concerns, “looking at the new issue market for deals that are
priced more attractively is a good way for investors to build
exposure to this sector,” Morgan Stanley’s Lee said.    Bank of Baroda (BOB) , one of three state-run lenders set to
receive government funds to support growth, raised a record
amount from dollar bonds in February when it issued $500 million
of 5 percent notes due in August 2016.  “We have a large overseas balance sheet and issued bonds
to meet our requirement for funds abroad,” M.D. Mallya,
chairman and managing director, said in a March 7 phone
interview from Mumbai.  Government Notes  Canara Chairman S. Raman couldn’t be reached for comment at
his office yesterday. T.C.A. Ranganathan, chairman and managing
director of Export-Import Bank of India, is traveling and so
isn’t available for comment, according to his secretary.  “Indian senior bank debt is part of our investment
strategy,”  Scott Bennett , Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd.’s
Singapore-based regional head of credit, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “The banks are well capitalized, other key
ratios are good, and then one gets a spread pick-up over
comparable investment-grade Asian bank debt.”  The yield on India’s 7.8 percent bonds due May 2020 rose to
7.973 percent from 7.969 percent on Mar. 7 after rising to as
much as 8.23 percent on Jan. 17 after the monetary authority
raised the repurchase rate to 6.5 percent.  Weaker Rupee  The rupee weakened 0.7 percent this year, making it the
second-worst performer with  Thailand ’s baht among Asia’s 10
most-traded currencies. The currency fell 0.13 percent to 45.03
per dollar at 12:34 in Mumbai today.  The difference in yields between India’s 10-year government
bonds and U.S. Treasuries has narrowed to 443 basis points from
last year’s high of 567. The cost of credit-default swaps
protecting the debt of government-owned  State Bank , which some
investors perceive as a proxy for the nation, fell 63 basis
points from a peak of 242 in May, according to CMA prices.  Banks in  South Korea , where exports make up half the
economy, typically have offshore loan-to-deposit ratios of more
than 200 percent and have been Asia’s top sellers of foreign-
currency bonds to support export-oriented trade, according to
New York-based research firm CEIC Data Ltd. Indian banks’
offshore loan-to-deposit ratios average 170 percent, compared
with about 75 percent onshore, CEIC data show.  “Overseas loan growth is outstripping offshore deposits so
Indian banks are increasingly turning to foreign-currency
borrowings to fund that shortfall,” said Lee, who predicts
Indian bank sales may outpace Korean offerings within two years.
Central bank rules prevent Indian banks from using domestic
deposits for overseas lending.  Liquidity  Bharti Airtel,  India ’s biggest wireless communications
company, agreed to buy Zain’s Africa assets last year in the
second-biggest overseas acquisition by an Indian company,
according to Bloomberg data. Tata Steel Ltd.’s $14.9 billion
purchase of steelmaker Corus Group Plc in October 2006 remains
the largest Indian takeover, the data show.  Transactions involving an Indian acquirer or investor
almost doubled from $22.4 billion in 2009, Richard Peterson, New
York-based director of valuation and risk strategies for S&P,
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. This year
may be even busier, he said, fueling greater need for financing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net 
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will McSheehy at 
 wmcsheehy@bloomberg.net  