-- 
Jim Tressel May Face NCAA Sanctions After Ohio State Suspension Over Rules

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-03-09T05:00:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/ohio-state-coach-tressel-knew-of-quarterback-pryor-s-violation-yahoo-says.html
Ohio State University  football
coach Jim Tressel may face further sanctions from the
 National Collegiate Athletic Association  after being
suspended and fined by the school for failing to disclose
that players including quarterback Terrelle Pryor had
violated eligibility rules.  Tressel will sit out the Buckeyes’ first two games of
the 2011 season and pay a $250,000 fine for failing to tell
school officials what he knew.  “I’m disappointed that this happened,” Tressel said
at a news conference last night at the Jack Nicklaus Museum
on  Ohio  State’s campus in Columbus, Ohio. “I’m sincerely
saddened by the fact that I let some people down.”  Tressel found out eight months before the university
said it was informed of the infractions that Pryor and five
teammates were selling memorabilia to Edward Rife, the
owner of a tattoo parlor in Columbus, Yahoo Sports
reported. The university and the NCAA began investigating
the case in December, when Ohio State officials said the
U.S. attorney’s office informed them of the sales.  The NCAA announced on Dec. 23 that it had suspended
Pryor, running back Dan Herron, wide receiver DeVier Posey,
offensive lineman Mike Adams and defensive lineman Solomon
Thomas for the first five games of the 2011 season.
Linebacker Jordan Whiting was suspended for the first game
of next season.  All six were allowed to play in the Buckeyes’ 31-26
win over  Arkansas  in the Sugar Bowl in January.  Tressel may still face an NCAA investigation into
whether he violated rules on ethical conduct and promoting
an atmosphere of compliance if he’s found to have
deliberately withheld information he received in April,
Yahoo Sports reported. An e-mail to the NCAA’s media office
last night was not immediately answered.  Missed Games  Tressel will miss home games against the University of
Akron and the University of Toledo on Sept. 3 and 10. The
five suspended players will also sit out a Sept. 17 visit
to Miami University and home games against the University
of  Colorado  and  Michigan State University  on Sept. 24 and
Oct. 1.  Tressel’s offense didn’t merit dismissal, Buckeyes
Athletic Director Gene Smith said at yesterday’s news
conference.  “Wherever we end up, at the end of the day Jim
Tressel is our football coach,” Smith said. “We support
him 100 percent. He’s our coach and we trust him
implicitly.”  Tressel, 58, is 106-22 in 10 years as coach of the
Buckeyes. He led the team to a national title after an
undefeated 2002 season and two other times to the
championship game.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  