-- 
Oil Declines First Time in Three Days; Goldman Raises Brent Price Forecast

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-03-08T08:28:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/oil-rises-to-29-month-high-citigroup-sees-fear-premium-in-brent-price.html
Oil fell for the first time in three
days as speculation that fighting may subside in  Libya  eased
concern supply cuts will spread through the Middle East.  Crude slid as much as 2 percent after al-Jazeera reported
an offer by Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi to relinquish power. The
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has made up for
supply cuts in the North African country, Qatar’s oil minister
said today. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. increased its second-
quarter Brent price forecast to $105 a barrel as OPEC spare
capacity shrinks amid the disruptions.  “There’s a sense in the market that the civil unrest will
ease and oil will probably collapse,” said  Jonathan Barratt ,
managing director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney.
Prices may slip to $85 a barrel should the market start focusing
on rising U.S. inventories, he said.  Crude for April delivery fell as much as $2.11 to $103.33 a
barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, and was at $104.02 at 4:25 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, the contract settled at $105.44, the highest since
Sept. 26, 2008. Prices are up 27 percent from a year ago.    Brent crude  for April settlement tumbled as much as $2.25,
or 2 percent, to $112.79 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The spread between the European
benchmark and New York-traded West Texas Intermediate was at
$10.04 a barrel from $9.60 yesterday.  Goldman Forecast  Goldman Sachs raised its outlook for both Brent and WTI
crude by $4.50 a barrel on estimates that spare capacity in OPEC
has dropped below 2 million barrels a day, according to a report
dated March 7.  OPEC members and producers outside the group have made up
for the reduction in shipments from Libya, Qatari Oil Minister
Mohammed Saleh al Sada said today. “There was hardly any
effect” on supply because of the Libyan unrest, he said at a
conference in Doha.  Violence has cut output in Libya by as much as 1 million
barrels a day, according to the  International Energy Agency . The
North African country pumped 1.59 million barrels a day in
January, Bloomberg News estimates show.  Technical indicators showed New York oil futures were
“overbought” for a sixth day. Crude’s 14-day relative strength
index was at 72.1 from 77.6 yesterday, Bloomberg data showed. A
reading of 70 typically indicates prices are set to retreat,
while 30 suggests they may rise.  “Prices are really too high, too overbought and too
susceptible to a sell-off to buy,”  Peter Beutel , president of
Cameron Hanover Inc., an energy adviser in  New Canaan ,  Connecticut , said in a note.  Offer Rejected  The interim rebel council in Libya rejected Qaddafi’s
offer, al-Jazeera reported, without saying how it obtained the
information. Libyan government warplanes repeatedly bombed rebel
positions near the oil hub of Ras Lanuf yesterday.  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt 
and there have been protests in countries including Iran, Yemen
and Oman. In  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer, websites
have called for a nationwide “Day of Rage” on March 11 and
March 20, according to  Human Rights Watch .  The turmoil, which has pushed Brent close to $120 a barrel,
has driven holdings of the European benchmark grade to the
lowest level in five months relative to New York oil futures.  Open Interest  The ratio of open interest, the number of contracts that
haven’t been closed or delivered, in Brent to those for WTI
tumbled to 55 percent on March 2, the lowest level since Sept.
22, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was 66 percent
as recently as Jan. 21.  Oil climbed to a record $147.27 a barrel on July 11, 2008,
before plunging 78 percent in the next five months to a low of
$32.40 as the financial crisis unfolded.  The prices of oil products have surged amid the Libyan
unrest. Gasoline advanced 11 percent on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  last week. Futures for April delivery dropped today,
sliding as much as 0.7 percent to $2.9828 a gallon.  An Energy Department report tomorrow will probably show
U.S. gasoline inventories dropped 2 million barrels from 234.7
million, according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts. It
will be a third week of declines.  The report due out at 10:30 a.m. Washington time tomorrow
may show U.S. crude inventories rose 1 million barrels last
week. Stockpiles increased in six of the last seven weeks. The
industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will publish its
own data today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  