-- 
Oil Falls a Second Day on OPEC Supply Speculation, Rising U.S. Stockpiles

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-03-09T07:53:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/oil-falls-for-a-second-day-in-new-york-as-opec-discusses-emergency-meeting.html
Oil dropped for a second day in  New
York  as speculation mounted that OPEC will consider boosting
output to compensate for disruptions in Libya and rising U.S.
supplies signaled weakening demand.  Futures slid as much as 0.8 percent after U.S. crude
inventories climbed the most since November, according to 
American Petroleum Institute data. Angola’s oil minister said
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries should wait
to see how events in Libya unfold before calling an emergency
meeting about prices and production.  Kuwait ’s oil minister
yesterday said members of the group are weighing an “urgent”
meeting to determine whether more output is needed.  “I think the situation in Libya to some degree is
contained from an oil-price point of view,” said  Mark Pervan ,
head of commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in Melbourne. “There is also a lot of supply in the
market, it’s not tight.”  Crude for April delivery decreased as much as 81 cents to
$104.21 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , and was at $104.30 at 3:39 p.m. Singapore
time. Yesterday, the contract lost 42 cents from the previous
settlement of $105.44, the highest since Sept. 26, 2008. Prices
are up 28 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for April settlement slipped 41 cents, or 0.4
percent, to $112.65 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract jumped 3.4 percent last week, its
sixth weekly increase.  Crude Inventories  U.S. crude inventories climbed 3.8 million barrels last
week to 348.5 million, the industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute  said. An Energy Department report today may show
stockpiles increased by 1 million barrels, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  Violence in Libya, Africa’s third-largest crude producer,
has cut output by as much as 1 million barrels a day, according
to the  International Energy Agency . The North African country
pumped 1.39 million barrels a day in February, down from 1.59
million the previous month, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Crude dropped yesterday after Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al- Sabah, Kuwait’s oil minister, told reporters that OPEC Secretary
General Abdalla El Badri is contacting members to see whether a
meeting on output levels is needed.  “The information that we have is that the market is
supplied,” Angolan Oil Minister Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos told reporters at an IHS Cambridge Energy Research
Associates conference in Houston yesterday. Prices have risen
because of geopolitical problems in North  Africa , and “we need
to wait a little bit” to act, he said.  Brent Premium  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt 
and there have been protests in countries including Iran, Yemen
and Oman. In  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer, websites
have called for a nationwide “Day of Rage” on March 11 and
March 20, according to Human Rights Watch.  The premium of front-month Brent futures to West Texas
Intermediate, the grade traded in New York, surged to a record
$19.54 on Feb. 21 as unrest spread in the Middle East and North
Africa and stockpiles climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the WTI
delivery point. The premium was at $8.33 today.  The spread has narrowed even as supplies at Cushing
continue to rise. Stockpiles there have climbed to a record 40.3
million barrels, the API data showed yesterday. Brent’s premium
has narrowed as  hedge funds  and other financial investors buy
New York futures, according to  Anthony Nunan , the assistant
general manager for risk management at Mitsubishi Corp. in Tokyo.  “Even though there is this oversupply there is a lot of
demand for WTI as a financial asset,” Nunan said by telephone
today. “Despite all this talk about it being a broken benchmark
the financial community doesn’t seem to care.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in  Melbourne  at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net  