-- 
Oil Declines First Time in Three Days; Goldman Raises Brent Price Forecast

-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 
2011-03-08T13:31:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/oil-slips-as-opec-discusses-output-goldman-merrill-raise-price-forecasts.html
Oil declined for the first time in
three days, retreating from a 29-month high, as members of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries discussed whether
to hold a special meeting on a production increase.  Crude slipped as  Kuwait ’s oil minister said OPEC members
are considering whether to convene an “urgent meeting” to
determine whether more output is needed. Futures trimmed earlier
losses after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Bank of America
Merrill Lynch raised their oil-price forecasts.  The market “is adjusting back to previous levels, showing
increased supply is priced in,” said Alexander Ridgers, head of
commodities at London-based CMC Markets. “It’s not easily
swayed unless facts come to light fast.”  Oil for April delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
fell as much as $2.11, or 2 percent, to $103.33 a barrel and was
at $105.31 at 1:28 p.m. London time. The price has risen 21
percent in the past month and reached $106.95 yesterday, the
highest since Sept. 26, 2008.  Brent crude  for April settlement
was down $1.04 at $114 a barrel after falling as much as $2.25
to $112.79 on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange in London.  Kuwait’s oil minister told reporters in  Kuwait City  today
that OPEC Secretary General Abdulla El-Badri is contacting
members to see whether a meeting on production levels is needed.  “I’ve talked to Abdulla El-Badri in this regard and he is
calling everybody and making a consensus on whether we’ll need
an OPEC meeting, an urgent meeting,” Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah
al-Sabah said. “We have to find out at the meeting whether
there is a need for an increase or not.”  Light Sweet Crude  Violence in Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest crude producer,
has cut output by as much as 1 million barrels a day, according
to the  International Energy Agency . The North African country
pumped 1.39 million barrels a day in February, down from 1.59
million the previous month, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Vienna-based researcher JBC Energy GmbH estimated Libya
accounts for 8.8 percents of total global production of light,
sweet crude, or crude oil with low density and sulfur content.
This type of crude yields more lucrative fuels such as gasoline
and diesel when processed.  “The loss of Libyan light, sweet crude poses a threat to
profitability of Europe’s already troubled refining industry,”
JBC said today in an e-mailed note. “This is due to the fact
that refineries rely heavily on high-quality crudes to produce
value-added products and minimize expensive processing.”  Little Supply Effect  Some OPEC members and producers outside the group have made
up for the reduction in crude shipments from  Libya , Qatari
Energy Minister Mohammed Saleh al Sada said today.  “There was hardly any effect” on supply because of the
Libyan unrest, he said at a conference in Doha.  The group’s next formal meeting is scheduled for June 8 in
Vienna. Most OPEC members were already producing more than their
individual quotas before the Libyan unrest.  Libya’s government denied holding talks with rebels in the
North African nation, Al Arabiya television reported today,
without saying where it obtained the information.  Libyan rebel fighters prepared an offensive to regain a town
lost to Muammar Qaddafi’s forces as the U.S. and its allies
stepped up the debate on imposing a no-fly zone that might help
the insurgents win the civil war.  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  and
there have been protests in countries including Iran, Yemen and
Oman. In  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer, websites have
called for a nationwide “Day of Rage” on March 11 and March
20, according to  Human Rights Watch .  If the Saudi government “takes a very tough line with the
demonstrators, it could produce some headline risk in the
market, even if no oil production is placed at risk,” analysts
led by Helima Croft at  Barclays Capital  said in a note.  Price Forecasts Raised  Goldman Sachs raised its second-quarter outlook for Brent
crude by $4.50 to $105 a barrel, citing estimates that spare
capacity in OPEC has dropped below 2 million barrels a day,
according to a report dated yesterday. Bank of America Merrill
Lynch increased its Brent crude price forecast for this year to
$108 a barrel from $88 and for next year to $95 a barrel from
$85, the bank said in a note today.  An Energy Department report tomorrow will probably show
U.S. gasoline inventories dropped 2 million barrels from 234.7
million, according to the Bloomberg News survey. It would be a
third week of declines.  U.S. crude stockpiles increased in six of the last seven
weeks, according to government data. Inventories probably rose 1
million barrels last week from 346.4 million in the previous
period, according to the survey. Five of the analysts
anticipated a gain and four projected a decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in  London  at   lsu23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 