-- 
Hoist One Where Women Sling the Drinks, Own the Joint: Review

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   S m i t h
-- 
2011-03-08T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/hoist-one-in-n-y-where-women-sling-the-drinks-and-own-the-joint-review.html
Today around the world, a whole lot
of  women will be marching  to note the 100th anniversary of
 International Women’s Day . After all that exercise, where better
to celebrate than at a bar with one of us in charge?  It’s a national holiday in some countries, including  China ,
and  Russia  where men are known to give random women chocolates
and even bottles of vodka.  Throughout the month, plenty of Serious Events will chart
the progress of women since the first IWD in 1911. It’s not all
serious business, though. In  New York , women are slinging
drinks, adeptly dispensing with boozed-up patrons and
negotiating liquor contracts at establishments they own.  My search for bars run by women yielded both high-profile
and lesser known operations, even as I found fewer than I’d
hoped. In fact, Audrey Saunders, owner of Pegu Club, warned me
it could be like “searching for a needle in a haystack.”  A couple of the spots I visited have some male partners.
But all have women running things.  Luxury Lounge  Pegu Club feels like the kind of place where you would wear
a  polka-dotted dress  from the  J. Peterman  catalog on a hot
summer night. Saunders has created a long, dark cool room that
is at once refined and welcoming with banquettes along one wall
and more private seating along the other.  I like people-watching from the bar while drinking a Pegu
Club Cocktail -- London dry gin, bitters, lime juice and orange
curacao ($13), and watching the bartenders shake and stir.  The menu includes pairings like the Fitty-Fitty martini
($13) with trout deviled eggs ($9).  Being a woman, says Saunders, 48, helped her because,
“Early in, I understood that in order to gain acceptance, I had
to be twice as good.”  Pegu Club  is at 77 W. Houston Street near W. Broadway; +1-
212-473-7348.  Irish Pub  Glenda Sansone, nee McGovern, opened Slane just before St.
Patrick’s Day in 2005. The pub is named for her hometown in
 County Meath, Ireland , site of Slane Castle and, since 1981, the
Slane rock concert. Photos of Bono and the  Red Hot Chili Peppers 
playing for some 80,000 fans hang in the bar.  The basic pub grub is good, Padraigh Connolly is a great
bartender and there’s live music Sunday through Thursday nights
from 9 to midnight.  For five years on Tuesdays, acoustic duo  Martin & Craig 
have been playing their toe-tapping original music and covers.
I’m hoping they’ll play “Delta Dawn” tonight.  When the place gets packed, Sansone thinks being a woman
“works as an advantage in an alcoholic atmosphere,” to keep
things running smoothly.  Sansone, 36, is hoping to open another spot while juggling
duties as a wife and new mother.  Slane Public House  is at 102 MacDougal Street in  Greenwich
Village ; +1-212-505-0079.  Neighborhood Hang  At the northern end of Alphabet City sits a non-descript
barroom called Heathers. DJ’s spin records most nights, artsy
folks come and go and ginger-infused rum or bourbon ($8) is
served along with gluten-free beers ($6).  Owner Heather Millstone, 36, who opened Heathers in late
2005, says music is very important to her and her clientele. She
has soundproofed the room and calls her establishment
“respectful,” though the bar is embroiled in a battle with
neighbors over noise.  The sole owner, she says many of her staff feel to her like
partners; she respects their input and service.  This Tuesday, Heathers is hosting a gluten-free meet-up and
book release party for Sloane Miller, known as Allergic Girl,
from 5:30 to 9.  Heathers  is at 506 E. 13th Street, between Avenues A and B;
+1-212-254-0979.  Down By the Riverside  Lisa Cannistraci opened Henrietta Hudson Bar and Girl on
Halloween 1991, “back when Hudson Street had no stop signs or
lights,” she says. “Greenwich and Washington Streets were 
industrial and half an hour would pass and no one would walk by.”  Cannistraci has always done deals in person. That’s one of
her keys to good business, along with not having a big ego and
hiring people who like who they are.  She says Lisa Graziano, the bar’s manager, “is the best
partner anyone could ever have.”  The lesbian bar has a pole for dancing on, a cage for
dancing in and a pool table that is removed in June during  Gay
Pride Month  to make more space for international visitors.  DJ’s supply the music Wednesday through Saturday, the crowd
is heavily female (there’s a strict policy at the door of two
women to every man) and a simple rule prevails: Be polite.  Throughout March, Henrietta Hudson will salute the women of
the world with “Superwoman,” a cocktail made from  Svedka 
clementine vodka and lychee liqueur.  On Tuesday, karaoke night will pay homage to inspiring
female singers like  Helen Reddy , in an event called “Sing Out
Sister.”  Henrietta Hudson  is at 438 Hudson Street; +1-212-924-3347.    Catherine Smith  writes for Muse, the arts and culture
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Smith in New York 
 c.smith@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 