-- 
Oman Air Reviews Protesters’ Demands, Says Flights Run Normally

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-03-08T09:20:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/oman-air-reviews-protesters-demands-says-flights-run-normally.html
Oman Air , the sultanate’s state-
owned carrier, said it’s studying employee demands on pay and
working conditions and will “accommodate them as much as
possible” following workers’ protest demonstrations.  Operations haven’t been affected by the rallies outside
Oman Air headquarters in Muscat that started on March 6 and
expanded to more than 200 people today, said Usama Karim al-
Haremi, a spokesman for the airline. Protest leaders set a 48-
hour deadline ending at 4 p.m. for demands to be met, he said,
adding that they haven’t specified what they may do afterward.  “Our executives are meeting today with representatives of
each staff department to review their demands,” al-Haremi said
in a phone interview. “They should come back with answers in
the next few days. The company is working on finding
solutions.”  The demonstrations come amid protests by residents across
the Persian Gulf country to push for political and economic
changes and better pay. Oman produces just over 800,000 barrels
of oil a day, compared with 8.43 million barrels a day in
neighboring  Saudi Arabia , and is home to about 2.7 million Omani
citizens and 600,000 expatriates.  Oman dissolved its Economy Ministry yesterday and named a
new finance chief in a Cabinet reorganization that Al Arabiya
television channel said resulted in replacements of 12
ministers.  Labor Group  Oman Air, which has more than 5,000 employees and serves 40
destinations, is working with the labor union to arrive at a
solution, al-Haremi said. No website was listed in online
searches for Oman’s government-sponsored Labor Association, a
state-backed union.  “We don’t know what will happen yet, as there’s not enough
visibility at this point, but our operations are normal,” the
spokesman said.  The carrier said a year ago that it aims to return to
profit by 2014 and may consider an initial public offering in
five to 10 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  