-- 
U.S. Home Sales Accelerate as Prices Decline Amid Rebound

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-03-08T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/home-sales-accelerate-as-prices-decline-with-u-s-rebound-seen-sustainable.html
The third decline in U.S. home
prices in three years is driving a pickup in sales as bargain
hunters rush to buy before  mortgage rates  rise, even as values
may slump further.  Mounting foreclosures pushed the median price for a U.S.
existing home to $158,800 in January, the lowest level since
2002, according to the National Association of Realtors. At the
same time, sales climbed 22 percent from October, the biggest
three-month gain since the end of a homebuyer tax credit. The
rally began as mortgage rates started to rise from record lows
in November and the economic expansion picked up speed.  “The job market is beginning to gain traction,  consumer
confidence  is improving, and even though mortgage rates have
increased, they’re near historic lows,” said  Mark Zandi , chief
economist of Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
Pennsylvania. “Prices may go down a bit more, but we’re still
seeing a pop in sales.”  Fannie Mae, the largest mortgage-finance company, forecasts
home prices will fall further this year and sales will jump.
Discounts on foreclosed properties are eroding the values of
other homes, making houses more affordable and opening the
market to more people. A sustained increase in sales may signal
a bottom in values as prices fall to levels buyers can’t resist.  Beating Rate Increases  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage was 4.87
percent last week, almost three-quarters of a percentage point
above the record 4.17 percent in mid-November, based on data
from McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac , the No. 2 mortgage-
finance company. It may be close to 6 percent by the end of the
year, according to a forecast by the  Mortgage Bankers
Association  in  Washington .  “If we can strike a deal before rates go any higher, we
can get a lot more house for our money,” said Matt Arnold, 30,
who is shopping for a four-bedroom home in Carlisle,
Pennsylvania, with his wife, Jillian. “Even if prices drop some
more, it’s still a good time to buy.”  A revival in transactions may be limited in the short term
as buyers wait for the traditional spring selling season and as
rising energy prices damp demand, said Thomas Lawler, a former  Fannie Mae  economist who is now a Virginia-based housing
consultant. Oil has climbed to a 29-month high following
political turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa.  An index of pending home sales fell 2.8 percent in January,
according to the Realtors group. It is 17 percent above a record
low in June.  “Typically, when there’s been a spike in gasoline and oil
prices of this magnitude over a very short period of time,
confidence goes down for a short period,” Lawler said. He
estimates a home-sales rebound in the second quarter.  Tax Effect  Prices are falling again after seesawing in 2009 and 2010
because of the federal tax incentives for homebuyers. The
credits cost $16.2 billion in tax revenue, according to the
Government Accountability Office in Washington. There is no plan
to renew the benefits as Congress wrangles over budget cuts.  “The tax incentives are why we are seeing this triple dip
in prices,” said  Nariman Behravesh , chief economist of  IHS
Inc. (IHS) , a research firm based in Englewood, Colorado. “Without
the credits, we wouldn’t have seen such volatility because
prices would have declined right to a bottom and we would be
into a sustained recovery by now.”  ‘Artificial’ Gains  The price slump that ended in January 2009, the month
before Congress authorized the first credit, was followed by a
10 percent increase as people took advantage of the original
version, limited to first-time buyers. The second price decline,
which ended in February 2010, was supplanted by an 11 percent
gain after the incentive was expanded to include existing
homeowners.  “Any price gains we’ve seen over the last two years have
been artificial because they’ve been driven by policy
initiatives,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist for Barclays
Capital Inc. in  New York .  Prices have fallen for seven straight months in the current
dip and are 31 percent below their 2006 peak, according to the
National Association of Realtors. The decline has exceeded the
27 percent price drop from 1928 to 1933, the worst years of the
Great Depression, said Stan Humphries, chief economist of  Zillow 
Inc., a Seattle-based real estate data company.  Measured annually, existing  home prices  probably will
decline an additional 2.2 percent in 2011, according to
Washington-based Fannie Mae. The median price for a new home may
drop 2.4 percent, the company said in a Feb. 10 forecast.  Jump in Transactions  Even with the threat of more price declines, home resales
probably will gain 6 percent in 2011 to a four-year high, Fannie
Mae said. Transactions for new houses may rise 18 percent to a
three-year high, after falling to an all-time low in 2010, the
company said. Sparse sales in January shrank the new-home share
of the market to a record 5.4 percent from 16 percent in 2005.  Negative equity, or when the value of a house is less than
the amount owed, will crimp a rebound in sales as it keeps about
a quarter of mortgage holders stuck in their current homes, said
Sam Khater, chief economist for  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX) , a research
company in  Santa Ana ,  California . Some of those people may walk
away if falling values push them further underwater, he said.  “Negative equity is keeping some homeowners out of the
market because they would have to come up with that amount if
they want to sell,” Khater said. “Or it could drive them to
foreclosure, which puts added pressure on the market.”  Record Foreclosures  The number of homes in foreclosure in January rose to a
record 2.2 million, Lender Processing Services Inc., based in
Jacksonville,  Florida , said in a report on its website. While
that inventory climbed, the share of mortgages with late
payments fell to 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter from 9.1
percent in the previous three months as the economy improved,
according to the Mortgage Bankers Association.  The states with the highest home-loan default rates had the
biggest price gains during the 2000 to 2005 real estate boom,
and are the ones most likely to see greater prices declines. In
Florida, 14 percent of mortgages were in foreclosure in the
fourth quarter, the most in the nation, according to the
mortgage bankers group. Nevada, No. 2, had a 10 percent share.  Prices gained 130 percent in Florida and 117 percent in
Nevada during the boom, according to the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  in Washington. The nationwide increase was 58 percent.  ‘Bad-Boy’ States  “The places with the worst price outlooks have been the
bad-boy states where things got out of control,” said Dennis
Capozza, a housing economist who teaches at the University of
Michigan in  Ann Arbor . “The places that are doing much better
didn’t have a bubble, or much of a bubble.”  Texas had a price gain of 28 percent in the five years
ended in 2005, about half the national average, according to the
housing finance agency. Since then, prices climbed an additional
8.8 percent while they slid in other parts of the country.  In  West Virginia ,  prices  increased 30 percent from 2000 to
2005, followed by a 6.3 percent advance since that time.
Oklahoma values rose 29 percent in the boom and an additional
9.6 percent in the past five years, the FHFA data show.  Job creation is key to the national housing outlook, said
Barclays Capital’s Maki. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.9
percent in February, the lowest since April 2009, the Bureau of
Labor Statistics said last week.  “Job and income growth are strengthening, which is helping
to drive sales higher,” Maki said.  Measured annually, the jobless rate probably will average
9.1 percent this year, down from 9.6 percent in 2010, according
to the median estimate of 65 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Gross domestic product will grow 3.2 percent, compared with a
2.8 percent pace in 2010, the economists predict.  “We are not quite done with the housing crunch,” said
Behravesh of IHS. “But the home-price bottom is getting
nearer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in Boston at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 