-- 
London May Lose Appeal for `Grumpy' Banks, British Land's Chris Grigg Says

-- B y   T o m   B i l l
-- 
2011-03-08T10:57:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/london-may-lose-appeal-for-grumpy-banks-british-land-ceo-says.html
  London  may become less attractive to
banks if the U.K. government bows to public pressure for higher
taxes on bonuses, said Chris Grigg, chief executive officer of
British Land Co., the biggest developer in the city’s main
financial district.  Banks still feel “grumpy” about the political climate
even after they reached an agreement with the government to
limit bonuses and boost lending to fend off attacks on their
compensation, Grigg said. He cited the example of  UBS AG (UBSN) , the
biggest tenant in British Land’s Broadgate development in the
city, which he said “thought seriously” before agreeing to
lease a new 700,000 square-foot (65,000 square-meter) building
in August.  “You can’t keep dissing the banks and expect it to go
unnoticed,” Grigg, 51, said in an interview. “UBS looked at
how big an operation it should have in London versus  Switzerland 
and the rest of the world. We know they are committed, but the
concern is whether they continue to add people here or spread
further around the globe.”  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  attacked the banking
industry in a March 5 interview in the  Daily Telegraph  for
thinking it “perfectly acceptable” to take money from
“gullible” customers and paying themselves bonuses because
their firms are too big for the government to let them fail. The
U.K. government has also raised taxes on banks’ balance sheets
and is weighing whether to separate their investment and
commercial banking operations.  ‘Blaming the Banks’  “The government has to balance populism with economic
realism,” Grigg said. “‘The rhetoric has eased slightly but it
hasn’t wholly eased off, especially when you hear Mervyn King,
the governor of the Bank of England, blaming the banks for the
financial crisis.”    HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest bank, said on March 7
it would prefer to keep its headquarters in London after  the
Sunday Telegraph  reported it was under pressure from investors
to consider moving to Hong Kong as a result of the tighter
rules. UBS CEO Oswald Gruebel criticized the government for not
supporting the financial services industry in an interview with
the Financial Times on March 3.  “It’s important that this city maintains its
attractiveness to employers and as a place for people to live
and we have to keep spelling that out,” said Grigg, a former
partner at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and CEO of Barclays
Commercial Bank, a unit of  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   British Land has 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) of
developments in central London. Its tenants include  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ and  Deutsche
Bank AG. (DBK)   Dominik von Arx, a spokesman for UBS in London, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Bill in London at   tbill2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at   ablackman@bloomberg.net  