-- 
One Equity Said to Favor $1.4 Billion IPO of Austria Metall

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-03-08T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/one-equity-said-to-favor-ipo-of-aluminum-maker-austria-metall.html
One Equity Partners LLC  plans to
pursue an initial public offering of its Austria Metall GmbH
unit that may value the aluminum maker at as much as 1 billion
euros ($1.4 billion), according to four people with knowledge of
the matter.  The decision to sell shares in Austria Metall on the Vienna
Stock Exchange was made yesterday and may be announced as early
as today, said two of the people, who declined to be identified
because the plan isn’t public. The owners of the company, also
known as AMAG, weighed offers from at least three potential
buyers, the people said.  The IPO would begin as soon as April and value the company
from 800 million euros to 1 billion euros, the people said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and BNP Paribas are advising, they said.
The option of selling the company would remain open should the
IPO process not go well, two of the people said.  Companies are preparing public offerings in Austrian
capital as the country’s benchmark ATX index has doubled from
its near six-year low in March 2009. Constantia Industries AG is
planning to sell shares in its Isovoltaic solar unit to the
public this year, two people with knowledge of the discussions
said in January. The IPOs would be the first on the Vienna
exchange since construction company Strabag SE went public in
October 2007.  One Equity, JPMorgan’s buyout arm, was weighing a sale or
an IPO for Austria Metall people with knowledge of the process
said in January.  Company Split  Funds advised by One Equity took control of Austria Metall
when it bought Constantia Packaging AG last year. Constantia
Packaging owns 90 percent of the aluminum group, with a trust of
Austria Metall’s employees holding the remainder. Constantia
Packaging and Constantia Industries were split when their owner
Herbert Turnauer died in 2000. His daughter inherited Constantia
Packaging, while his son got Constantia Industries.  Spokesmen for One Equity and Constantia Packaging declined
to comment yesterday. A spokesman for Austria Metall didn’t
answer an e-mail outside of typical office hours.    Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY)  was among companies that weighed acquiring
Austria Metall, the people said. Norsk Hydro Chief Executive
Officer Svein Richard Brandtzaeg said on Feb. 16 that the
Austrian aluminum maker was on his “radar.”  “We are, of course, following the business very closely in
the industry, but for this specific issue we have no comment,”
said Erik Brynhildsbakken, a spokesman for Norsk Hydro, over the
phone from Oslo yesterday.  In 2009, Austria Metall had sales of 517.4 million euros
and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of 108 million euros, Constantia Packaging said in
its annual report.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net . 