-- 
Mongolia Seeks Balanced Growth to Avoid `Dutch Disease' From Mining Boom

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-03-08T01:28:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/mongolia-says-shifting-focus-to-balanced-growth-from-mining.html
Mongolia needs to look beyond the
coal and copper mines that are driving its economic boom to find
a more balanced model of growth, Prime Minister Sukhbaatar Batbold said.  Investment in mining projects and speculation on the wealth
they will create in the world’s most sparsely populated nation
have made Mongolia’s tugrik the best-performing currency since
the beginning of last year. That’s putting exports such as
cashmere at a disadvantage, and adding costs to newer industries
such as tourism, food production and metal processing.  “It is important to have a good  mining industry ,” Batbold
said in an interview at a forum in Mongolia’s capital Ulan Bator.
“But it is a tool of moving many other things forward. What we
want to focus on is creating jobs in many other industries.”  Mongolia needs to avoid developing “ Dutch disease ,” where
the financial benefits of a resource boom lead to a hollowing
out of other sectors, according to the  World Bank . Sandwiched by
Russia’s far east to the north and 1.3 billion-strong, resource-
hungry  China  to the south, the government is looking for ways to
lessen its vulnerability to competition from its giant neighbor
and reduce its reliance as a customer.  “Mongolia can’t compete with China on wages, but it can
certainly find areas in the Chinese economy where it could have
an edge,” such as in cashmere, meat, and services, said Rogier
van den Brink, lead economist for Mongolia at the World Bank.
“Diversifying from resources would be a solution similar to
what the Dutch found to combat the resource disease.”  Mineral Projects  The discovery of gas in the Netherlands drove up inflation
and damaged manufacturing. In Mongolia,  Vale SA (VALE5) , the world’s
largest iron ore supplier, and  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the No. 1 thermal
coal exporter, are leading six groups bidding for a 1 billion
metric ton concession at the Tavan Tolgoi coal project.    Rio Tinto , the world’s No. 2 mining company, is developing
the Oyu Tolgoi copper and gold deposit, which it expects will
account for 30 percent of Mongolia’s gross domestic product when
completed.  The country also holds oil, potash, iron ore, uranium and
the rare earth minerals used in Toyota Motor Corp. hybrid cars
and Raytheon Co.’s Tomahawk cruise missiles.  Plans this year to begin mining part of Tavan Tolgoi and
preparatory work for the 2012 start-up of Oyu Tolgoi may cause
the economy to expand 33 percent in dollar terms, according to
 Eurasia Capital , an Ulan Bator-based bank. That compares with a
10 percent growth in local currency terms, Eurasia said in a Jan.
11 report.  The tugrik gained 16 percent against the  U.S. dollar  since
Jan. 1, 2010, beating 172 other currencies tracked by Bloomberg.
China’s yuan advanced 4.1 percent over the same period.  Cashmere Competition  China, Mongolia’s biggest rival in cashmere and top trading
partner, is “stealing jobs” with a more stringent currency
policy, Naidansuren Zoljargal, a deputy governor at the nation’s
 central bank , told the forum.  While the dollar value of greasy cashmere exports rose to
about $105 million from $92 million in the first 11 months of
2011, it dropped to 3.6 percent of all exported goods in
December in dollar terms, from 4.8 percent a year earlier,
according to the World Bank.  Mongolia, which the government estimates has the capacity
to produce 30 percent of the world’s cashmere, this year set up
a marketing agency to help farmers and herders market their
products abroad. This should help producers compete on quality
and brand, not price, agency chief Stephen Kreppel told the
forum on March 4.  Cashmere Goats  Thirty-four percent of Mongolia’s 1.1 million labor force
work in agriculture, primarily tending livestock that includes
the goats that yield cashmere fibers. Services employ 61 percent,
with industry accounting for 5 percent, according to the  CIA
World Handbook .  In contrast, industry provides 30 percent of gross domestic
product and agriculture 21 percent. As well as raw materials and
unprocessed animal products, Mongolia also sells apparel and
leather goods and the government aims to support to textiles,
infrastructure, tourism and  food production , Batbold said.  “We’d like to focus now on value-added products,” he said.
Tackling poverty is one reason development in Mongolia has
become more urgent, with the mining industry a way to “give
better impetus to the economy,” Batbold said.  More than a third of Mongolians live below the poverty line,
and per head income in the nation of 2.7 million is $2,111, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in 2010. In December, Russia
wrote off about 98 percent of Mongolia’s $172 million debt.  China accounts for 80 percent of Mongolia’s imports and
buys about 85 percent of its exports, according to Mongolia’s
central bank data. While Mongolian trade turnover surged 54
percent to $6.2 billion last year, imports exceeded exports by
$379 million, Eurasia Capital said, citing official data.  Currency Swap  To help mitigate the effects of the rising tugrik,
Mongolia’s central bank is in talks with China on a currency
swap that would amount to “a few billion” yuan, Zoljargal said
in a March 4 interview. The accord allowing trade to bypass the
dollar should be ready before July, and a similar deal with  Russia  is likely to follow, he said.  “This will help us to smooth all those pressures to the
local economy,” Zoljargal said.  The Bank of Mongolia last year introduced dollar-tugrik
forward contracts to help hedge against jumps in the  exchange
rate  and is supporting plans to set up a market for tugrik-
denominated  government bonds  as soon as this year, Zoljargal
said.  The measures will help make any appreciation in the tugrik
“smooth” and predictable, Zoljargal said. “We don’t want to
fight the trend,” he said. “Our target is more on the
inflation, which we’re trying to keep at single digit.”  The IMF in a Feb. 17 report forecast the figure to reach 20
percent by the year’s end due to increased state spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Ulan Bator, via the Tokyo newsroom at 
   yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  