-- 
OPEC Considers Urgent Meeting as Saudis Create New, Low-Sulfur Oil Blend

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d ,   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   I n a l   E r s a n
-- 
2011-03-08T19:38:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/opec-considers-urgent-meeting-as-saudis-create-new-low-sulfur-oil-blend.html
OPEC members are discussing whether
to hold an emergency meeting to consider increasing oil
production,  Kuwait ’s oil minister said.  “I’ve talked to Abdalla El-Badri in this regard, and he is
calling everybody and making a consensus on whether we’ll need
an OPEC meeting, an urgent meeting,” the Kuwaiti minister
Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al-Sabah told reporters in  Kuwait City 
today. El-Badri is the secretary general of OPEC. “We have to
find out at the meeting whether there is a need for an increase
or not,” the Kuwaiti minister said.  In another effort to cope with cuts in oil exports from  Libya  amid worsening turmoil there, Saudi Arabian Oil Minister
Ali al-Naimi said his country is developing a blend of light,
low-sulfur crude to help offset a shortage.    Saudi Arabia  and other members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries have pledged to ensure adequate
supply to the market amid violence in Libya,  Africa ’s third-
largest crude producer. OPEC, which supplies 40 percent of the
world’s oil, is under pressure to rein in fuel prices after New
York-traded oil rallied yesterday to $105.44 a barrel, the
highest closing price since September 2008.  Asked if the market needs more oil from OPEC, the Kuwaiti
minister said: “Not yet.” Questioned whether Kuwait will raise
production by April, he replied: “It depends on the meeting, it
has to be a collective decision.”  Additional Storage  Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s biggest producer, has added to crude
stockpiles at storage facilities in Sidi Kerir,  Egypt , Rotterdam
in the Netherlands and Okinawa, Japan, to help meet demand
swiftly, the official Saudi Press Agency reported, citing al-
Naimi. Saudi Arabia has 3.5 million barrels of spare capacity,
he said.  Al-Naimi said Saudi Arabia is developing a blend of light,
low-sulfur crude and will help meet any increase in demand,
Saudi Press Agency reported. The Saudis are creating the new
blend to help offset lost barrels of similar crude from Libya.  “The Kingdom has taken steps to develop a special crude
oil blend which is closer in quality to the supplies which have
been lost by utilizing mixes from its different fields,” the
report quoted al-Naimi as saying. The mixes used in this new
blend are lighter in gravity and lower in sulfur, “helping to
minimize crude-quality concerns,” he said, according to SPA.  Spare Saudi Capacity  Saudi Arabia’s 3.5 million barrel-a-day spare capacity is
available to help offset supply shortfalls, and the excess
includes a mix of crude grades and allows his country to meet a
broad range of needs, he said.  Libya has cut output by as much as 1 million barrels a day,
according to the  International Energy Agency . The North African
country pumped 1.39 million barrels a day on average in
February, down from 1.59 million the previous month, according
to Bloomberg estimates. Still, exports continue from some parts
of the country, including the eastern port of Tobruk, Libyan oil
company officials said yesterday in Benghazi.  OPEC currently has no meeting planned aside from a
conference already scheduled for June 8 in Vienna, according to
an OPEC official.  An emergency meeting can be called by the group’s secretary
general in consultation with its president, according to the
OPEC Statute. Iranian Oil Minister Masoud Mir-Kazemi, who
currently holds the OPEC presidency, said on Feb. 28 that there
is no need for OPEC to increase supply, the state-run  Islamic
Republic News Agency  reported.  Muted Impact Seen  Some OPEC members and producers outside the group have made
up for the reduction in crude shipments from Libya, Qatari
Energy Minister Mohammed Saleh al Sada said. “There was hardly
any effect” on supply because of the Libyan unrest, he said at
a conference in Doha.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its average second quarter  New York  oil-price forecast to $99 a barrel, up $4.50 from its
previous estimate, as an increase in production by Saudi Arabia
and supply halts in Libya reduce OPEC’s ability to make up for
further disruptions.  OPEC has idle capacity of less than 2 million barrels a
day, down from 3 million in December, the bank said. Saudi
Arabia is producing more than 9 million barrels a day, or
700,000 barrels above the official figure for January, according
to Goldman.  Risk of Disruption  “The real risk is that the remaining spare capacity cannot
accommodate an escalation in disruption,” analysts led by  David Greely  in New York wrote in the report. “The current
developments in Libya have therefore brought forward the
drawdown of OPEC spare capacity by about six months.”  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt
and there have been protests in countries including Iran, Yemen
and Oman. Websites in Saudi Arabia have called for a nationwide
“Day of Rage” on March 11 and March 20, according to  Human
Rights Watch .  Even before the Libyan unrest, most OPEC members were
producing more than their individual quotas. Daily output from
the 11 members bound by quotas was 27.01 million barrels a day
in January, according to the latest monthly report from the
group’s Vienna-based secretariat, implying that compliance with
the cutback had declined to 48 percent.  OPEC’s members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador ,  Iran ,  Iraq ,
Kuwait, Libya,  Nigeria ,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and  Venezuela . Iraq is exempt from the quota system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net 
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  