-- 
OPEC in `Consultations,' Hasn't Decided on Oil Output Boost, Kuwait Says

-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-03-08T10:51:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/opec-in-consultations-hasn-t-decided-on-oil-output-boost-kuwait-says.html
OPEC members are holding informal
discussions on raising output and haven't yet reached a
decision,  Kuwait ’s oil minister said.  “We are in consultations but not yet decided which
direction” to go, Sheikh Ahmad al-Abdullah al-Sabah told 
reporters in Kuwait City today. Kuwait is still producing at
“our quotas,'' he said. ``We did not increase.”  Violence in Libya,  Africa ’s third-largest crude producer,
has cut output by as much as 1 million barrels a day, according
to the  International Energy Agency . The North African country
pumped 1.39 million barrels a day in February, down from 1.59
million the previous month, according to Bloomberg estimates.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries supplies 40
percent of the world’s oil.  Oil closed yesterday at the highest level since Sept. 26,
2008, on concern that protests in the Middle East may spread to
producers including  Saudi Arabia , the holder of the world’s 
largest crude reserves. Crude for April delivery fell as much as
$2.11, or 2 percent, to $103.33 a barrel in electronic trading
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange after the Kuwaiti minister’s
comments and was at $105.24 at 10:47 a.m. London time.  Qatar Minister  Some OPEC members and producers outside the group have made
up for the reduction in crude shipments from Libya, Qatari
Energy Minister Mohammed Saleh al Sada said. “There was hardly
any effect” on supply because of the Libyan unrest, he said at
a conference in Doha.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its average second quarter
New York oil-price forecast to $99 a barrel, up $4.50 from its
previous estimate, as an increase in production by Saudi Arabia
and supply halts in  Libya  reduce OPEC’s ability to make up for
further disruptions.  OPEC has idle capacity of less than 2 million barrels a
day, down from 3 million in December, the bank said. Saudi
Arabia, the world’s largest crude exporter, is producing more
than 9 million barrels a day, or 700,000 barrels above the
official figure for January, according to Goldman.  “The real risk is that the remaining spare capacity cannot
accommodate an escalation in disruption,” analysts led by  David Greely  in New York wrote in the report. “The current
developments in Libya have therefore brought forward the
drawdown of OPEC spare capacity by about six months.”  Demonstrations have toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt 
and there have been protests in countries including  Iran , Yemen
and Oman. Websites in Saudi Arabia have called for a nationwide
“Day of Rage” on March 11 and March 20, according to Human
Rights Watch.  Formal Meeting  OPEC’s next formal meeting is scheduled for June 8 in
Vienna. Even before the Libyan unrest, most OPEC members were
producing more than their individual quotas.  In late 2008, responding to falling prices and demand, OPEC
agreed to its biggest-ever output cut of 4.2 million barrels a
day. Adherence to that pledge has faded as prices advanced
through 2009 and 2010.  Daily output from the 11 members bound by quotas was 27.01
million barrels a day in January, according to the latest
monthly report from the group’s Vienna-based secretariat,
implying that compliance with the cutback had declined to 48
percent.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran,  Iraq ,
Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria,  Qatar , Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. Iraq is exempt from the quota system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net 
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at  