-- 
Loughner's YouTube Videos Suggest Mental Issues, U.S. Says

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-03-08T21:17:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/loughner-mental-examination-needed-to-see-if-he-s-fit-for-trial-u-s-says.html
Online video clips posted by Jared Lee Loughner suggest that the suspect in the Jan. 8 shooting in
Tucson,  Arizona , that left six people dead and 13 wounded may
have “mental issues,” prosecutors said.  Federal prosecutors in Arizona yesterday asked the judge in
charge of the case for permission to move Loughner to a medical
prison facility where he can be examined to see if he’s
competent to stand trial.  Loughner’s MySpace and YouTube postings include a seven-
minute video clip of a hooded and masked person, believed to be
the suspect, wearing garbage bags on his lower body and burning
an American flag, prosecutors said in yesterday’s federal court
filing. The MySpace account was taken down after the shooting
while the YouTube postings are still online, according to the
filing.  “The defendant’s postings, all of which were made within
the last five months, provide ‘reasonable cause’ that defendant
‘may’ have mental issues for this court to order a psychiatric
or psychological examination of the defendant” to determine his
competency, the prosecutors said.  U.S. District Judge Larry A. Burns said in an order filed
today that he will discuss the request at a hearing tomorrow in
Tucson. Burns said he will also hear arguments on a request by
Loughner’s lawyers to bar reports about him compiled by prison
psychologists from being provided to the FBI.    Judy Clarke , Loughner’s lead lawyer, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  49-Count Indictment  Loughner, 22, was charged March 4 in a superseding 49-count
grand jury indictment with the murder of U.S. District Judge
John M. Roll and Gabriel M. Zimmerman, an aide to U.S.
Representative  Gabrielle Giffords , as well as the slayings of
four other Arizona residents who attended Giffords’s community
meeting outside a Tucson supermarket.  He pleaded not guilty to charges in an earlier indictment
that he tried to assassinate Giffords and kill two of her other
aides. Loughner will be arraigned on the new charges at
tomorrow’s hearing.  Burns, a San Diego-based judge appointed to the case after
federal judges in Arizona recused themselves, said in today’s
order he also will discuss a trial date at tomorrow’s hearing.
In an earlier order the judge had said he wanted the trial to
start no later than Sept. 20. Loughner’s lawyers have said they
couldn’t be ready for trial before January 2013.  Autopsy reports of the six people killed in the shooting in
Arizona were released yesterday by the Pima County Medical
Examiner’s Office. The U.S.  Justice Department  had asked Burns
to bar the release of the reports because news stories about
them may jeopardize Loughner’s chance for a fair trial.  The case is U.S. v. Loughner, 11-00187, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 