-- 
Louisiana Sues BP, Partners for $1 Million a Day Over Spill

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-03-08T17:03:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/louisiana-sues-bp-partners-for-1-million-a-day-over-spill.html
  BP Plc (BP/)  and its partners in the  Gulf
of Mexico  well that blew up should pay the state of Louisiana at
least $1 million a day for damages caused by the worst  oil spill 
in U.S. history, state Attorney General  Buddy Caldwell  said in a
lawsuit against the  oil company .  “Louisiana has been, and will continue to be, profoundly
impacted by the Deepwater Horizon disaster and has incurred, and
will continue to incur, significant costs and damages,’’
Caldwell said in the complaint, filed March 3 in federal court
in New Orleans. BP and its partners are responsible for fines
and damages under state and federal law, he said.    Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and Mitsui & Co.’s  MOEX Offshore
2007 LLC , which co-owned the well with BP, were named in the
suit. Also sued were Transocean Holdings LLC and Triton Asset
Leasing GmbH, which owned the Deepwater Horizon rig.  The well leaked more than 4.1 million barrels of crude
after the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig exploded and sank 50
miles off the  Louisiana  coast in April.  Louisiana seeks at least $1 million in penalties for “each
day of violation” as well as full reimbursement for all cleanup
and remediation costs. The well leaked for 87 days. Large
amounts of oil remain in the Gulf’s waters and marshes, Caldwell
said.  Daren Beaudo, BP’s spokesman, and  John Christiansen ,
Anadarko’s spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
seeking comment on Louisiana’s suit. A spokesman for Mitsui
couldn’t be immediately reached.  Effects of Spill  Hundreds of miles of shoreline were fouled and Gulf of
Mexico fisheries were closed by the spill.  More than 350 individuals and businesses sued BP and other
companies involved in the drilling project, seeking billions of
dollars in compensation for economic and personal injuries.  The U.S. government has also sued, seeking additional
billions in fines, restoration and cleanup costs.  The case is State of Louisiana v. BP Exploration &
Production Inc., 2:11-cv-9516, U.S. District Court, Eastern
District of Louisiana   New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 