-- 
Senate Rejects Competing U.S. Budget Proposals as Sides Remain Far Apart

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-03-09T23:16:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/house-republicans-may-seek-new-short-term-u-s-budget-bill-of-up-to-month.html
The  U.S. Senate  rejected a
Republican bid to cut $61 billion from the federal budget, as
well as a competing Democratic plan, in votes aimed at
pressuring House Republicans to compromise in their push to
slash  government spending .  Lawmakers  defeated  44-56 a measure approved last month by
the House that would impose an average of 14 percent cuts on the
non-security “discretionary” portion of the budget. A
Democratic alternative calling for a fraction of that reduction
fell on a 42-58  vote .  Today’s votes were intended by Senate Democratic leaders to
demonstrate to lawmakers, especially the Tea Party-backed
freshmen in the House, that neither side has the votes to impose
its will.  “They don’t have the votes to pass their package and it’s
time to sit down and work out a deal,” Senator  Patty Murray  of
Washington state, the chamber’s fourth-ranking Democrat, said of
the House Republicans. “Nobody gets their way here.”  Senate Democrats unanimously opposed the House plan. Three
Republicans who have stressed fiscal conservatism also voted
against it: South Carolina’s  Jim DeMint ,  Rand Paul  of Kentucky
and  Mike Lee  of Utah.  DeMint said the proposed $61 billion cut was too little.
“We’re not even in the ballpark of where we need to be,” he
told reporters.  Pressure on Democrats  The votes also likely will pressure Democratic leaders to
compromise after their party’s plan was opposed by 11 members of
their caucus. Some of the Democrats voting against the plan had
expressed concern it didn’t make enough cuts.  White House Press Secretary Jay Carney said the votes
“demonstrate that Democrats and Republicans must come together
to find common ground on a budget that cuts spending and puts us
on a path to live within our means, but also ensures we continue
to invest in our future.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, following
the votes reiterated his view that Democrats have been dragging
their feet in engaging on the budget issue. “It’s time for  Washington  Democrats to present a serious plan to cut spending,”
he said in a statement.  Temporary Spending Plan  Lawmakers may have to enact another temporary spending
measure, to replace one now in place that expires March 18, to
allow more time to work out a deal on funding for the rest of
the government’s fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.  Senate Democrats are pushing for savings beyond the
discretionary spending reductions proposed by the House. Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the third-ranking Democrat, said
lawmakers should consider a surtax on millionaires, rescinding
tax breaks for oil and gas companies and cutting programs such
as Medicaid.  Additional delays increase the odds the budget debate will
merge with a looming battle over raising the federal debt limit,
which the Treasury Department projects will be hit sometime
between April 15 and May 31.  Some Senate Republicans who face potential primary
challenges from Tea Party candidates in next year’s elections
voted for the House bill, though they said they opposed parts of
it.  ‘Have to Move Forward’  “I don’t agree with everything in the bill, the priorities
-- absolutely not -- but the point is you have to move
forward,” said Maine Republican  Olympia Snowe . Indiana
Republican  Richard Lugar  said, “It’s better than where we are,
even if it’s not the best of where we could be.”  Representative Allen West, a Florida Republican and a
member of the House Tea Party caucus, said before the votes it
would take “a lot” of persuading by party leaders for him to
agree to less than $61 billion in cuts.  “Anything less than that is a heinous violation of the
trust of the American people,” West said. “It is a question of
leadership -- it is a question of can we truly prove ourselves
to be fiscally responsible or are we just up here playing a
game.”  Little more than an hour after the votes, each party’s
campaign arm sent press releases targeting senators up for re-
election in 2012.  “Astonishing,” said the headline on one such note to
reporters from Democrats regarding Republican Senator  Scott Brown  of Massachusetts, who backed his party’s plan. “Scott
Brown just voted to slash 17,000 Massachusetts jobs.”  Potentially vulnerable Democrats targeted by Republicans
included Senator Claire McCaskill of  Missouri .  McCaskill “preaches fiscal responsibility when she’s back
home in Missouri, but does the exact opposite in Washington,
voting in lockstep with her liberal party leaders to spend money
that our country doesn’t have,” Chris Bond, a spokesman for the  National Republican Senatorial Committee , said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  