-- 
Toyota Adds New 7-Seater Prius in Japan to Boost Hybrid Lead

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-03-08T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/toyota-adds-new-7-seater-prius-in-japan-to-boost-hybrid-lead.html
  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  will introduce
new versions of the Prius in Japan as it seeks to boost its
lead in sales of gasoline-electric hybrid cars.  Toyota will start selling 5-seater and 7-seater Prius
wagons in Japan from late April and a compact version by the
end of the year, Makoto Okabe, deputy chief engineer for the
Prius “family” of cars, told reporters in Tokyo on March 7.  Toyota has sold more than 2 million Prius cars worldwide
since its introduction in Japan in 1997, making it the
world’s best-selling hybrid car. The Prius is a “pillar”
model for the automaker, President  Akio Toyoda  said at the
Detroit auto show in January. Unlike rival Nissan Motor Co.,
which started selling its Leaf electric car in December,
Toyota is more cautious about demand for vehicles powered
solely by batteries.  The Prius wagons are 155 millimeters (6 inches) longer,
30 millimeters wider and 85 millimeters taller than the
standard version, providing more space for passengers and
luggage.  The 5-seater, U.S. market “Prius v” wagon, which gets
a combined 40 miles per gallon in city and highway driving,
will also go on sale by the end of the third quarter of this
year.  The 7-seater “Prius +,” unveiled at the Geneva auto
show on March 1, will be sold in  Europe .  To conserve space, the 7-seater car, which may have a
different name in Japan, will be powered by a smaller
lithium-ion battery, Okabe said. While the lithium-ion
battery costs more than the nickel-metal hydride pack used in
the 5-seater model, both have the same output, he said.  Toyota is also developing a plug-in hybrid and an all-
electric car based on the iQ minicar for next year. Toyota
also agreed last year to buy a $50 million stake in  Palo Alto ,
California-based  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  to collaborate on an
electric version of Toyota’s RAV4 sport-utility vehicle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  