-- 
Pan-Asian Swaps, Repatriation, Basel Agenda: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-03-08T13:27:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/pan-asian-swaps-repatriating-profits-basel-agenda-compliance.html
Efforts to encourage clearing of
private derivatives through a pan-Asian platform are being
thwarted by countries setting up a less efficient patchwork of
systems, said Keith Noyes, Asia-Pacific director for the
 International Swaps and Derivatives Association .  The existence of a patchwork system means Korean-won swaps
would have to clear in  South Korea , with similar restrictions
imposed in India and China, Noyes said. This is “expensive”
from a bank’s perspective, according to Noyes, “because it ties
up pools of capital in several jurisdictions.”  A nation-by-nation approach would differ from how clearing
interest-rate and credit-default swaps is handled in the U.S.
and  Europe , where multinational trades are made through  London 
and  New York . London’s  LCH.Clearnet Ltd.  is the world’s largest
interest-rate swap clearinghouse, while New York-based  ICE
Trust , a unit of Intercontinental Exchange Inc., is the top
backer of credit swaps.  The Group of 20 nations is encouraging greater use of
clearinghouses to cut some of the risks of trading in the $583
trillion private  derivatives market . Credit-default swaps
contributed to the financial crisis and unregulated swaps trades
made it difficult to know how interconnected banks had become by
trading the contracts.  Clearinghouses  operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by members. Those members post
margin and contribute to funds that reduce the effect of default
by any single participant. Over-the-counter contracts are
privately negotiated between two parties rather than traded on
an exchange.  ISDA, based in New York, is the industry and lobbying group
for the world’s largest banks and money managers that use swaps.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Carney Says Repatriation Holiday Could Be Part of Tax Reform  The Obama administration would consider letting companies
repatriate overseas profits as part of a broader overhaul of
corporate tax laws, White House press secretary Jay Carney said.  Carney repeated a stance outlined last month by Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner that giving companies such a tax
break won’t be considered outside a comprehensive package of
changes to the law.  A “repatriation holiday is something we would consider as
part of an overall process,” Carney said.  Obama backs revamping the corporate tax code to lower rates
while eliminating many tax breaks.  Chinese Regulator Says Pension Funds Should Increase Investments    China  should allow pension funds to invest more money in
domestic stock markets as the nation’s economic development
fuels companies’ demand for financing, an official at the
securities market regulator said.  There’s a large demand for capital, Zhu Congjiu, assistant
to the chairman of the  China Securities Regulatory Commission ,
told reporters in Beijing yesterday during the annual National
People’s Congress meeting. The current pace of new initial
public offerings is reasonable, he said.  Of the 67 new stocks that began trading this year, 18 have
slipped below the offering price, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. More than 300 companies raised a record $70.7 billion
from IPOs in Shanghai and Shenzhen last year and 54 of those
companies are also below their sale price, the data show.  China needs a better plan to direct more capital into the
market, Zhu said. The securities regulator aims to make the
approval process for corporate bond sales and follow-on stock
offerings easier, he said.  The CSRC began reforming its new-equity market in 2009 by
abolishing a price-to-earnings ceiling for the IPO price.  Too-Big-to-Fail Capital Rules, CoCos Top Basel Group’s Agenda  The amount global banks must add to their reserves to
absorb future financial shocks will be on the agenda when
financial regulators meet this week, following a warning from  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s top manager that authorities shouldn’t rush
to impose more rules.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision will also review
criteria when it meets today and March 9 to decide which banks
should hold the extra reserves, according to the  Financial
Stability Board , which joins together authorities from the G-20
group of countries. Regulators will examine the potential for
using contingent convertible bonds, or CoCos, to meet the rules,
said Stefan Walter, the Basel group’s secretary general.  The Group of 20 nations agreed in November that lenders
which would threaten the wider financial system if they
collapsed should face tougher rules, forcing them to increase
their ability to cover losses without failing. The FSB tasked
the Basel committee with drafting the global requirements for
these systemically important banks. In a progress report to G-20
ministers last month, the FSB said it would get input from the
banks on a provisional set of too-big-to-fail measures “during
the second half of 2011.”  Borges Says IMF Won’t Need To Be Involved in EU Bank Tests  The International Monetary Fund’s European Department
Director Antonio Borges said the fund doesn’t plan to oversee
the EU’s new stress tests on banks as the approach will be
different from the last reviews.  This year’s exams will be managed by the London-based
 European Banking Authority  after tests in 2010 were criticized
for not being stringent enough.  “These new stress tests will be conducted under the
guidance or supervision of the new Europe banking authority,
which will introduce a different approach from the previous
one” and provide credibility, Borges said in Washington
yesterday.  EU to Call for Tougher Transparency Rules for Commodity Traders  Commodity derivative markets are opaque and may require
tougher rules to curb excessive price volatility according to
draft plans set to be approved by European Union governments
this week.  Financial-market regulation “where appropriate” may be
needed to tackle “excessive price volatility” and the “risk
of interruptions or reductions of supplies,” according to a
draft statement published on the EU’s  website .  The draft report scheduled to be approved by EU ministers
on March 10 calls for improved “integrity and transparency of
commodity derivatives markets.”  French President Nicolas Sarkozy has blamed speculation for
driving up world food prices and made regulation of commodity
trading one of his priorities during France’s leadership of the
Group of 20 countries in 2011. Michel Barnier, the EU’s
financial services chief, and a former minister of Sarkozy’s,
called last month for restrictions on traders including position
limits.  Sweden Opens Door to CoCos as Banks Face 2013 Buffer Deadline  Sweden’s biggest banks will probably be allowed to use
contingent convertible bonds to help them meet capital
requirements by 2013 that policy makers say will be among the
world’s strictest.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision will this week
discuss allowing CoCos to count toward additional capital
demands for systemically important banks. Oswald Gruebel, the
chief executive officer of Switzerland’s biggest lender  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
has warned against using contingent convertible bonds to boost
capital, arguing regular shareholders may sell their holdings as
CoCos dilute stock values upon conversion.  Martin Noreus, deputy director of the banking and
securities department at the Swedish Financial Supervisory
Authority, said yesterday in an interview in Stockholm that
Sweden is following the debate in Europe.  The securities, which convert from debt to equity at a
given trigger to contribute to regulatory capital, may bring
capital ratios as high as 18 percent, Swedish central bank
Governor Stefan Ingves said in a Feb. 1  speech . Finance Minister
Anders Borg and Ingves have called for stricter rules in Sweden
than elsewhere to stem risk taking. The FSA wants systemically
important banks to target total capital ratios of at least 15
percent by 2013.  For more, click here.  EU Lawmakers Vote to Curb Naked Short Selling With Sovereign CDS  European Parliament lawmakers voted to partially ban
traders from using credit derivatives to profit from defaults on
sovereign debt they don’t own, setting up a possible clash with
governments.  The assembly’s economic and monetary affairs committee also
voted in Strasbourg, France, in favor of a ban on short selling
of stocks or  government bonds  in the European Union unless
traders have at least “located and reserved” in advance the
securities they intend to sell.  The lawmakers voted for tougher rules than those under
 consideration  by governments, published on the EU’s website.
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  banned some types of trading in
May last year, as the country sought to stop speculators from
fueling the euro area’s debt crisis.  The committee voted to ban traders from using credit-
default swaps on European Union nations’ debt, unless they
either own the underlying security or other assets whose market
price moves in close tandem with it.  The Parliament and governments are discussing changes to
proposals in September by the  European Commission , the EU’s
executive arm.  The commission proposed restricting so-called short selling
by requiring traders to submit proof they can access the
underlying shares or sovereign bonds to settle a trade designed
to profit from falling prices.  Ministers and members of the assembly must approve a final
text before the measures can take effect in the 27-nation bloc.  Compliance Action  Southwest Securities Fined $500,000 by Finra Over Muni Advisers  Southwest Securities Inc. will pay $500,000 to resolve
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority claims that the firm
violated Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board rules by using
paid consultants to solicit business.  The unit of Dallas-based  SWS Group Inc. (SWS)  paid five people,
including three former Texas municipal issuer officials, to
solicit business on its behalf from October 2006 through April
2009, Finra said yesterday in an e-mail statement. The
consultants, who were paid a total of $200,000, helped Southwest
obtain 24 securities underwritings and two roles as financial
adviser to Texas municipalities, Finra said.  Southwest, which settled the claims without admitting or
denying wrongdoing, agreed to have a company officer confirm to
Finra that internal compliance systems and procedures are in
accordance with MSRB rules and certify that its systems and
procedures are reasonably designed to achieve compliance, Finra
said.  SEC ‘Capacity Gap’ Risks Oversight Lapses as Targets Multiply  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is about 400
employees short of what it needs to manage its current workload,
according to a consultant’s four-month internal review mandated
by the Dodd-Frank Act.  The preliminary findings by Boston Consulting Group Inc.
reinforce arguments by SEC officials that the agency is
underfunded and understaffed as it takes on oversight of
derivatives, credit-rating firms and municipal bonds, according
to a draft copy of the report obtained by Bloomberg News.  The study said staffing levels had declined since 2005 and
that SEC employees interviewed consistently complained their
departments were understaffed. The “capacity gap” of 375 to
425 employees identified in the report could be partially offset
by shifting managers down to front-line or support roles, it
suggested. The SEC could also resort to a large influx of
temporary workers, the report said.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in Feb. 17 testimony to the
 Senate Banking Committee  that her agency needs a larger budget
and eventually 800 more workers to implement the regulatory
demands of Dodd-Frank, the law signed by President Barack Obama
in July.  For more, click here.  Treasury Software to Enforce ‘Do Not Pay’ List at Agencies  The  U.S. Treasury  Department will meet this month with
companies that can develop software to help detect improper
payments to contractors and other recipients of federal money,
according to an  online notice .  The department will host “vendor days” March 21 and 22 in
Washington, according to the March 4 notice. Interested
companies will be selected to demonstrate software that could
give federal agencies a single portal to check eligibility
before sending checks for services or for government benefits,
including Medicaid and unemployment insurance. Responses are due
March 15.  The software that Treasury plans to buy would be used by
other arms of the government to search federal databases,
according to a  Department of Management and Budget  memorandum
sent by President Barack Obama to executive department leaders
in June.  Courts  Connecticut Hedge Fund Manager Pleads Guilty to Fraud  Francisco Illarramendi, a hedge fund manager in
Connecticut, pleaded guilty to fraud and two other men were
charged with conspiracy in a U.S. probe of an alleged Ponzi
scheme with potential investor and creditor losses of hundreds
of millions of dollars, prosecutors said.  Illarramendi, 42, pleaded guilty yesterday in federal court
in Bridgeport to two counts of wire fraud and one count each of
securities fraud, investment-adviser fraud and conspiracy to
obstruct justice, said U.S. Attorney David Fein in Connecticut
in an e-mailed statement.  The plea couldn’t be confirmed immediately in electronic
court records. John Gleason, an attorney for Illarramendi,
declined to comment.  The SEC case is SEC v. Illarramendi, 11-78, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Bank Stress Tests Will Also Be Exam for EU Supervisor, Rehn Says  Stress tests on banks in the European Union will also be an
“important” examination of the region’s revamped system of
financial supervisors, said the EU’s economics chief.  The next round of bank stress tests “will be a very
important litmus test for this new European architecture of
financial regulation and supervision,”  Olli Rehn , the EU’s
economic and monetary affairs commissioner.  He made the remarks in a speech in Luxembourg yesterday.  “Due to the lack of any kind of effective European level
supervision, there was a certain variety of implementation in
the member states” in last year’s exercise, Rehn said.  The 2010 stress tests were criticized for not being
stringent enough because lenders in the 27-nation region were
shown by regulators to need only 3.5 billion euros ($4.9
billion) of new capital, about a 10th of the lowest analyst
estimate. This year’s exams will be managed by the London-based
 European Banking Authority .  For more, click here, and click here.  CFTC ‘Out of Step’ With SEC on Dodd-Frank Rules, Sommers Says  The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  is “out of step”
with U.S. and international efforts to write rules for the
derivatives market, Commissioner Jill Sommers told bankers at a
conference in Washington.  CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  proposals for
governing new swap-execution facilities may lead to inconsistent
regulation, Sommers said yesterday in a speech at the  Institute
of International Bankers  annual conference in the U.S. capital.  In December, the CFTC proposed allowing participants in the
swap-execution facilities to request price quotes from a minimum
of five possible sellers. The SEC on Feb. 2 proposed a rule that
would allow buyers to request a quote from a single seller. The
CFTC measure is “overly restrictive” and doesn’t provide the
same flexibility as the SEC proposal, said Sommers, one of two
Republicans among the CFTC’s five commissioners.  Sommers was the only commissioner to oppose the CFTC
proposal in a 4-1 vote to seek comment.  The CFTC and the SEC are leading U.S. efforts to write
derivatives regulations required under the Dodd-Frank Act.  Former SEC Head Levitt Gives Dodd-Frank Law ‘C Minus’  Former U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
Arthur Levitt said Congress is “eating away at whatever Dodd-
Frank put on the table.”  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  Nobelist Yunus Says Bangladesh Threatens Grameen Bank’s Autonomy    Muhammad Yunus , the Nobel Prize-winning microfinance
pioneer, said Bangladesh’s government is trying to oust him as
managing director of Grameen Bank in an attempt to take control
of the institution.  Yunus made the remarks via video link yesterday while
attending a microcredit conference in Washington.  A Bangladesh court yesterday delayed a decision on a
petition filed by Yunus, 70, aiming to block his removal, lawyer
Kamal Hossain said in a telephone interview from Dhaka.
Bangladesh’s central bank, which is also the country’s financial
regulator, sought to relieve Yunus of his duties, citing non-
compliance with its rules, the Financial Times reported on March
3.  Yunus, who founded Grameen, breached Bangladesh retirement
norms by continuing to head the lender beyond age 60, K.M. Abdul
Wadood, general manager for banking regulation and policy at the
central bank, said on March 1.  Grameen Bank provides credit to the poorest of the poor in
rural Bangladesh without any collateral.  For more, click here.  Harman International Says Director Gupta Resigns From Board    Harman International Industries Inc. (HAR)  director Rajat Gupta
has resigned from the board, Jean Lepine, Harman’s vice
president of corporate affairs, said yesterday in an interview.  Gupta, the former worldwide director of consultant McKinsey
& Co., was accused last week by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission of providing insider tips on companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  to the
billionaire hedge-fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam .  Earlier in the day, Gupta had resigned from the boards of  AMR Corp. (AMR)  and  Genpact Ltd. (G)  The information was disclosed in
regulatory filings. Gupta, 62, last week also resigned as a
director of Procter & Gamble.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 