-- 
Gulf Shares Advance, Led by Qatar, as GCC May Discuss Aid to Quell Unrest

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 
2011-03-08T11:29:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/persian-gulf-shares-rise-led-by-qatar-on-economic-aid-talks.html
Persian Gulf shares advanced,
sending Qatar’s benchmark index up the most in more than a year,
after an official said the Gulf Cooperation Council will discuss
aid to help Bahrain and Oman quell political unrest.  Qatar National Bank, the country’s biggest lender, gained
5.7 percent.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , builder of the world’s
tallest skyscraper in Dubai, advanced the most in more than a
month. Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  rallied 4.3 percent, the biggest gain
since December 2009, to 8,011.77 at the 1:10 p.m. close in Doha.
The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed 2.7 percent to 1,412.51, the
highest since March 1. The gauge has lost 13 percent since
Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was ousted in January. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  rose 1.9 percent at 2:53 p.m. in Dubai.  The gains were prompted by “positive economic news
including the GCC’s possible plan to extend aid to Bahrain and
Oman,” said Mahdi Mattar, head of research at Abu Dhabi-based
CAPM Investment PJSC, an investment banking company. “It may be
the beginning of a relief period. We will have to wait till next
week as some are watching for possible events in  Saudi Arabia .”  At least two people were killed in clashes between
protesters and security forces in the Omani city of Sohar last
week. In Bahrain, seven people have been killed in rallies that
began Feb. 14. The six states of the GCC may work out an
economic aid plan for Bahrain and Oman later this week, Bahraini
Foreign Minister Sheikh Khaled bin Ahmed Al-Khalifa said today.  GCC Meeting  Foreign ministers of the GCC, which includes the  United
Arab Emirates  and Saudi Arabia, will discuss an aid program at a
March 10 meeting in Riyadh, Sheikh Khaled said at a meeting of
the ministers in  Abu Dhabi , without giving further details.  Governments from Jordan to Yemen have offered concessions
to quell public discontent that ousted leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia  and sparked protests across the region. Bahrain’s Crown
Prince Salman bin Hamad Al Khalifa said March 6 there’s a “70
to 80 percent consensus” on a plan to engage with the country’s
opposition after weeks of protests.  Bahrain’s al-Wefaq group, the kingdom’s largest Shiite
Muslim opposition bloc, said Feb. 22 it wants “significant
steps” from the government before starting a dialogue.  In Saudi Arabia, King Abdullah has announced plans to spend
about 110 billion riyals ($29 billion) on programs aimed at
boosting housing, education and social welfare amid growing
concern large-scale protests may erupt. Postings on websites
have called for a nationwide Saudi “Day of Rage” on March 11
and March 20, Human Rights Watch said in a statement posted on
its website Feb. 28.  Qatar National Bank gained the most since March 17 to 136.5
riyals. Emaar jumped 4.9 percent, the most since Feb. 2, to 2.56
dirhams.  Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  advanced 2.3 percent
and Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  climbed 1 percent. Oman’s  MSM30 Index (MSM30)  and Kuwait’s SE Price Index gained 0.1 percent each.
Bahrain’s BB All Share Index dropped 0.3 percent.  Tunisian shares rose for the second day after the exchange
opened yesterday following a week-long closure. Interim
President Fouad Mebazaa appointed a new Cabinet that will aim to
restore safety as the Interior Ministry dissolved its state
security branch. The benchmark Tunindex gained 3.4 percent, the
most since April 2008, to 4,373.79 in the capital Tunis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  