-- 
Peru’s Sol Weakens After Bank Measures Create Dollar Scarcity

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-03-08T20:05:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/peru-s-sol-weakens-after-bank-measures-create-dollar-scarcity.html
  Peru ’s sol fell for the first time
in five days as banks took advantage of a two-week low in the
dollar to boost holdings in the U.S. currency.  The sol weakened 0.1 percent to 2.7690 per  U.S. dollar  at
the close of trading, from 2.7674 yesterday.  The Andean country’s currency has gained 1.4 percent this
year, the second-most among six Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, even as central bank policy makers took
steps to limit advances in the sol. The central bank bought $497
million last month, rolled over certificates of deposit payable
and redeemable in U.S. currency, and increased banks’ reserve
requirements, shrinking the supply of dollars locally.  The shortage of dollars has increased the overnight
interbank lending rate to close to 5 percent now from 2 percent
in late February, said Augusto Saldarriaga, head of analysis at
Banco Internacional del Peru, the country’s fourth-largest bank.  “There is an underlying liquidity issue,” he said.  Bets the sol will appreciate and the central bank’s
subsequent response have contributed to the dollar scarcity,
said Fernando Palma, a currency strategist at  BBVA Banco
Continental .  The sol will probably strengthen to 2.70 this year even as
banks’ need for dollars may cause the sol to weaken “in the
short term,” Palma said yesterday in an e-mailed note to
investors.  Banks trimmed their net negative dollar position including
forward contracts to $69 million on March 4, according to
central bank data compiled by Bloomberg. Their negative dollar
position was $100 million on March 3.  The central bank didn’t buy dollars in the foreign exchange
market today or issue certificates of deposit payable in
dollars.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 was unchanged at 6.28 percent,
according to Deutsche Bank AG’s local unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  