-- 
Petrochemical Makers Want Clear Rules Before Investing

-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-03-14T13:11:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/petrochemical-makers-want-clear-regulations-before-investing.html
(Corrects that Nova was purchased by International
Petroleum Investment Co. in 12th paragraph of story published
March 8.)  U.S. petrochemical producers want a
clear federal  energy policy  to ensure the continued domestic
shale-gas supply before they make large investments in steam
crackers that utilize the feedstock.  “That’s where a clear regulatory policy needs to be,”
Dennis Seith, president of Ineos Group Holdings Plc Olefins &
Polymers division in the U.S. said at CERAWeek, a Houston
conference held by IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates.
“What is going on in  China ? What is going on in the rest of the
world with regard to greenhouse gas, permitting and licensing
can actually help enable those long-term decisions.”  New drilling techniques are boosting production from the
Marcellus Shale formation, which according to Energy Department
estimates is the largest known U.S. gas field, keeping U.S.
prices of natural-gas low relative to oil. Gas production from
shale formations may double by 2035, according to U.S. Energy
Department projections.  “A little concern for us is that the supply of natural gas
has not kept pace,” said Doug May, vice president of energy and
climate change with  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  “Policy makers need to
realize that this natural gas change is an important part of
petrochemical, but it is a national opportunity as well.”  Ethylene Margins  Ethylene margins may rise to a record over the next three
to four years, partly because gas will become even cheaper
relative to oil,  Robert Koort , a Houston-based analyst at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a March 6 report.  Increased capacity to separate gas into ethane and other
components as well as an improving global economy also will
contribute to rising ethylene earnings at Dow Chemical and  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) , Koort said.  The cost of oil, which settled at $105.02 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , is 27 times the cost of 1 million
British thermal units of natural gas, rivaling an August 2009
peak, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Natural gas for
April delivery fell 6.3 cents, or 1.6 percent, to settle at
$3.864 per million Btu on the Nymex. Gas has fallen 15 percent
in the past year as oil has risen 28 percent.  “This region is the second most competitive in the world
for producing ethylene,” said Lyn Tattum, vice president with
Chemical Business Media. “So we have the opportunity for
manufacturing on a very competitive basis.”  Ineos Group  Ineos , the world’s fourth-biggest chemical maker, said
profit margins from ethylene in the U.S. may reach a record as
low natural gas prices relative to oil boost exports and demand
improves.  Production from shale formations has increased supply and
made U.S. ethylene costs among the lowest in the world, Seith
said in an interview today. Low gas costs relative to oil will
help keep U.S. ethylene and polyethylene, the world’s most-used
plastic, globally advantaged for at least four years, he said.  Chemical companies have begun to start once-idled steam
crackers and at least one large producer has proposed building a
new steam cracker in  West Virginia  to take advantage of ethane
from adjacent shale-gas deposits.  Nova Chemicals Corp., purchased in 2009 by International
Petroleum Investment Co., owned by the government of  Abu Dhabi ,
signed a memorandum of understanding for the supply of ethane
from Caiman Energy LLC’s Fort Beeler Plant near Cameron, West
Virginia, in the Marcellus Shale Basin.  Steam crackers use pressure and heat to split oil products
like naphtha and liquefied petroleum gases into basic
petrochemicals, including ethylene, which is a key ingredient in
plastics such as polyethylene.  Bayer, Chevron, Eastman    Bayer AG (BAYN) , the world’s largest maker of polyurethane, is
considering building a steam cracker on company sites in West
Virginia using ethane from adjacent shale-gas deposits, Bryan
Iams, a spokesman for Bayer in Pittsburgh, said in January.  Chevron Phillips received preliminary approval in December
from  Texas  regulators to reopen a cracker shut in 2008 at its
Sweeny complex, according to a  filing  on the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality’s website.    Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN)  is opening a mothballed cracker in
Longview, Texas, because it says low-cost gas has made the U.S.
more competitive. Dow plans to use 30 percent more ethane, a
component of natural gas, at its Gulf crackers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 