-- 
Pharmasset to Challenge Vertex Hepatitis C Treatment, BMO Says

-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-03-08T14:57:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/pharmasset-to-challenge-vertex-hepatitis-c-treatment-bmo-says.html
  Pharmasset Inc. (VRUS) ’s experimental
hepatitis C therapies may pose a challenge to treatments from  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX) , based on trial results to be
released in late March, BMO Capital Markets Corp. analysts said.  Two drugs from Pharmasset showed “impressive” figures as
stand-alone medications or combination therapies, while results
from a two-drug combination from Vertex weren’t good enough to
justify more patient studies, the analysts, led by Jason Zhang
in  Montreal , wrote in a research report to investors yesterday,
citing abstracts of the trials.  The Vertex trial combined its drug telaprevir, due for U.S.
regulatory review on May 23, with experimental drug VX-222,
Zhang wrote. The Pharmasset trials combined two experimental
therapies, PSI-7977 and PSI-938, with standard therapies or with
each other. Zhang lowered his recommendation on Vertex’s stock
from “outperform” to “market perform,” saying that investors
already expect telaprevir to be approved.  “The hepatitis C treatment landscape subsequent to the
initial phase of telaprevir dominance is tilting away from
Vertex to companies such as Pharmasset that have potent
combinations,” Zhang wrote.  Vertex fell as much as 5.1 percent to $47.07 and was down 5
percent in Nasdaq trading as of 9:53 a.m. in  New York . That
pared the stock’s gain this year to 35 percent, valuing the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based company at $9.64 billion.
Princeton, New Jersey-based Pharmasset jumped as much as 7.3
percent to $66.48 and was up 4 percent.  Telaprevir may generate $1.9 billion in revenue in 2012,
according to BMO’s estimates.  The trials were summarized in abstracts released yesterday
by the  European Association for the Study of the Liver . Though
 published online , the data are under a press embargo until the
conference, which starts on March 30 in Berlin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  