-- 
Polish Yield Jumps to Highest Since October 2009 at Auction on Rate Bets

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-03-09T16:36:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/polish-yield-jumps-most-in-3-weeks-on-rates-before-bond-auction.html
Polish and Czech funding costs rose
in today’s auctions of government debt on concern central banks
across  Europe  will push forward interest-rate increases.  Poland sold 4.5 billion zloty ($1.57 billion) more of its
2013 notes, the maximum amount it sought to raise, the  Finance
Ministry  said in an e-mailed statement. The average yield jumped
to 5.113 percent, the highest for two-year bond auctions since
October 2009, according to figures on the ministry’s  website .  Policy makers worldwide are struggling to tame inflation
driven by surging food and oil prices. Investors in interest-
rate derivatives have raised bets that European countries will
lift borrowing costs in the next month after European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on March 3 a rate
increase is possible at the next meeting.  “We assume that after the ECB step, and taking into
account the situation on the global and commodities market, the
likelihood of an April rate hike has increased substantially”
for  Poland , Aleksandra Bluj, an analyst at Bank Pekao SA, wrote
in a report yesterday. The Warsaw-based lender controlled by
UniCredit SpA expects Poland to raise its benchmark rate to 4
percent from 3.75 percent on April 5, Bluj wrote.  Forward-rate agreements fixing Polish interest costs in one
month’s time rose to 4.33 percent yesterday, the highest since
July 2009. The one-month FRA was unchanged today at 4:20 p.m. in
Warsaw, trading 15 basis points above the three-month Warsaw
Interbank Offered Rate to which it settles.  ‘Well-Treated’  Poland sold 5.24 billion zloty of the 2013 notes at the
last auction on Feb. 9, the most in seven months. Bids totaled
8.78 billion zloty as accelerating inflation pushed investors to
shorter maturities. The government decided against a sale of
2020 bonds last month, opting instead to offer Treasury bills
and inflation-linked and two-year bonds.  Investors in today’s auction sought to buy 10.8 billion
zloty of the debt, more than double the amount sold, according
to the ministry.  “The 2013 bond is particularly well-treated by the
market,” Bluj said in an e-mail to Bloomberg News yesterday.  The  Czech Republic  sold 5.8 billion koruna ($334 million)
of debt maturing in September 2021, according to data posted by
the central bank on Bloomberg. The average yield rose to 4.187
percent in the second offering of the security from 3.813
percent at its first sale on Nov. 24. Bids jumped to 10.5
billion koruna from 9.4 billion koruna in November.  ‘Non-Existent’  Investors today pared bets Czech policy makers will
increase rates by September after a report showed the inflation
rate rose less than analysts and the central bank’s forecast.
FRAs locking in three-month interest costs six months from today
fell to 1.66 percent from 1.725 percent yesterday.  The Czech bank “can afford to keep low  interest rates  for
longer, which is in contrast with its regional peers Poland and  Hungary ,” Stanislava Pravdova, an analyst at Danske Bank A/S in
Copenhagen, wrote in a report to clients today. “Inflationary
pressures in the Czech economy are practically non-existent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  