-- 
Rajaratnam Judge Condemned Insider Trading in Previous Cases

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-03-08T02:52:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/rajaratnam-judge-holwell-condemned-insider-trading-in-his-previous-cases.html
  Richard Holwell , the Manhattan
federal judge overseeing the trial of Raj Rajaratnam, is a
former corporate lawyer who condemned insider trading in two
recent cases he has handled during his eight years on the bench.  At the 2008 sentencing of Eugene Plotkin, then a 28-year-
old former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  banker who pleaded guilty to
insider trading, a defense attorney urged Holwell to impose a
sentence below federal sentencing guidelines because of
Plotkin’s youth and because a co-defendant was the mastermind
behind the scheme. The judge refused.  “This was not a simple and singular lapse of judgment, but
an egregious breach of trust, a fraud, pure and simple, by a
person who had no moral compass,” Holwell said, sentencing
Plotkin to 57 months in prison, within federal guidelines.  Rajaratnam, the co-founder of hedge-fund company Galleon
Group LLC, is accused of making $45 million in illicit trades
from insider tips. The 53-year old native of  Sri Lanka , who
faces as much as 20 years in prison on the most serious charges
against him, denies wrongdoing. It’s the largest  insider-trading 
case ever involving  hedge funds .  Rajaratnam’s trial, which starts today with jury selection,
may last two months and feature evidence from 2,400 wiretapped
conversations with 130 people and involves alleged inside tips
on 37 companies, including Goldman Sachs,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Hilton
Hotels Corp. and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)   Wiretap Ruling  Holwell, 64, is responsible for allowing wiretap evidence
to be used in Rajaratnam’s insider-trading trial. In November he
ruled that the U.S. complied with federal wiretapping laws in
its investigation of both Rajaratnam and former hedge fund
consultant Danielle Chiesi. Chiesi has pleaded guilty to three
counts of conspiracy and isn’t cooperating with prosecutors.  The judge rejected a defense argument that the recordings
had to be excluded because federal agents allegedly misled the
judge who authorized the wiretaps.  The ruling could prove harmful to Rajaratnam, said  Jacob Frenkel , a former lawyer with the Securities and Exchange
Commission who is now a partner at Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy &
Eckerin in Potomac,  Maryland . He isn’t involved in the case.  “A defendant’s own words are the most powerful tool for the
government,” Frenkel said in an interview. At the same time, he
said, “there could be different interpretations to the tapes,”
as Rajaratnam has argued.  Hariri Sentencing  Last year, Holwell sentenced ex-Atheros Communications Inc.
Vice President Ali Hariri to 18 months in prison for leaking
tips to Ali Far, a co-founder of hedge fund Spherix Capital LLC.
Holwell sentenced Hariri to less than the amount called for
under the sentencing guidelines, 24 to 30 months, after noting
that Hariri didn’t directly profit from Far’s trades.  Far and his partner at Spherix, Richard Choo-Beng Lee, have
both pleaded guilty and are cooperating with prosecutors. Far
and Lee are both linked to Rajaratnam’s insider trading ring,
the U.S. has said.  Holwell said at Hariri’s sentencing that insider trading
threatened the integrity of the marketplace.  “The critical wrong is the wrong to the proper operation
of an efficient market,” Holwell said. “What the courts should
be focused on in these cases is not so much dollars but what is
the actual nature of the conduct at stake and what is the risk
to a fair marketplace for this type of behavior.”  Before he was nominated to the bench by President  George W. Bush , Holwell spent more than 30 years as a business litigator,
rising to be chairman of the litigation department at  New York- 
based White & Case LLP. Holwell, who was confirmed as a judge in
2003, declined to be interviewed for this story.  Clients  Holwell handled business and securities cases at White &
Case, and his clients included pharmaceutical-maker Ciba-Geigy
Corp., heavy equipment-maker Clark Equipment Co. and TLD Group,
which makes airport ground-support equipment, according to court
records. Much of his practice focused on untangling complex
business and securities disputes.  Holwell presided over an investor suit against  Vivendi SA (VIV) ,
the Paris-based owner of the world’s biggest music company. In
that case, one of only a handful of securities-fraud class
actions to be tried, jurors on Jan. 29, 2010, found that Vivendi
had misled investors 57 times from 2000 to 2002.  Last month, Holwell threw out part of the Vivendi verdict
after a 2010 U.S. Supreme Court decision limited securities
suits involving non-U.S. companies. His ruling eliminated more
than 80 percent of the $9.3 billion in damages claimed by the
class of investors, Vivendi said at the time.  Villanova Graduate  Holwell, a graduate of Villanova University and Columbia
University School of Law, joined White & Case in 1971, after
spending a year at  Cambridge University . He remained at the
firm, which has 37 offices in 25 countries, according to its
website, until his nomination to the bench was confirmed by the
Senate in 2003.    White & Case  declined to permit any of its lawyers to be
interviewed, citing a policy not to talk about partners who
become judges. It said in an e-mail that Holwell is a lawyer
“of the highest quality and integrity.”  Hugh Verrier, White & Case’s chairman, didn’t return phone
messages seeking information about Holwell’s years at the firm.  Holwell’s net worth at the end of 2009 was between
$4.1 million and $13.9 million, according to a Bloomberg News
analysis of his financial disclosure report filed June 14. The
form only requires judges to list a range of values, not a
precise amount, for their assets.  Fund Holdings  Holwell bought and sold mutual funds,  index funds  and
other investments, according to the form. He disclosed values
for 42 assets, including his share of a partnership, valued at
between $1 million and $5 million, that owns his  New York 
building. He also owned a variety of bond funds, it showed.  Holwell successfully represented Credit Lyonnais SA  in
seizing control of the MGM/United Artists Inc. film studio after
the former owner, Italian financier Giancarlo Parretti,
allegedly defaulted on loans taken to finance the 1990 purchase,
according to a 2001 White & Case website biography of Holwell.  Holwell also did pro bono work at White & Case. A 2004 firm
statement cited his work on a 17-year-long employment-
discrimination case that led to changes in hiring and promotion
practices at New York’s Long Island Rail Road.  James W. Quinn, Vivendi’s co-lead trial lawyer in the
securities fraud class action trial, said Holwell is a courteous
judge who mostly gives lawyers the room to try their cases.  “I think he handles high-profile cases as well as any
judge I’ve had,” said Quinn, who is co-chairman of the
litigation department at Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 