-- 
Rajaratnam Judge, Goldman, Atheros, Lehman in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-03-08T13:36:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/rajaratnam-judge-goldman-atheros-lehman-in-court-news-1-.html
  Richard Holwell , the Manhattan
federal judge overseeing the trial of Raj Rajaratnam, is a
former corporate lawyer who condemned insider trading in two
recent cases he has handled during his eight years on the bench.  At the 2008 sentencing of Eugene Plotkin, then a 28-year-
old former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  banker who pleaded guilty to
insider trading, a defense attorney urged Holwell to impose a
sentence below federal sentencing guidelines because of
Plotkin’s youth and because a co-defendant was the mastermind
behind the scheme. The judge refused.  “This was not a simple and singular lapse of judgment, but
an egregious breach of trust, a fraud, pure and simple, by a
person who had no moral compass,” Holwell said, sentencing
Plotkin to 57 months in prison, within federal guidelines.  Rajaratnam, the co-founder of hedge-fund company Galleon
Group LLC, is accused of making $45 million in illicit trades
from insider tips. The 53-year-old native of Sri Lanka, who
faces as much as 20 years in prison on the most serious charges
against him, denies wrongdoing. It’s the largest insider-trading
case ever involving  hedge funds .  Rajaratnam’s trial, which starts today with jury selection,
may last two months and feature evidence from 2,400 wiretapped
conversations with 130 people and involves alleged inside tips
on 37 companies, including Goldman Sachs,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Hilton
Hotels Corp. and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)   Before he was nominated to the bench by President George W.
Bush, Holwell spent more than 30 years as a business litigator,
rising to be chairman of the litigation department at New York-
based White & Case LLP. Holwell, who was confirmed as a judge in
2003, declined to be interviewed for this story.  White & Case declined to permit any of its lawyers to be
interviewed, citing a policy not to talk about partners who
become judges. It said in an e-mail that Holwell is a lawyer
“of the highest quality and integrity.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For more about the jury questionnaire, click here.  Rajaratnam Trial May Tarnish Goldman, McKinsey, Spark Suits  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., McKinsey & Co. and  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
are among the companies that may be sued or suffer damage to
their reputations after witnesses at the trial of Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam describe insider leaks, Bloomberg
News’s David Glovin, Patricia Hurtado and Bob Van Voris report.  Rajaratnam, 52, goes on trial today for trading on tips
gleaned from sources inside these and other companies, including
Morgan Stanley,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. If the billionaire native of Sri
Lanka is convicted by a Manhattan jury, U.S. prosecutors may
seek to jail him for more than 10 years.  The companies from which the leaks emanated may find
themselves in court explaining how sensitive data wound up with
traders at Galleon. While the actions of a rogue employee who
leaked tips won’t justify a lawsuit, evidence that a firm’s
executives intentionally gave data to favored traders to
manipulate share price may be grounds to sue a company, said
Mark Rifkin, a New York lawyer who represents investors.  “If a company made a decision for whatever reason that it
wanted to make information available to select individuals, that
in my opinion would be unlawful,” said Rifkin, of Wolf
Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP, in an interview. “We’re
paying close attention to the entire insider trading case as it
unfolds because you never know what’s going to happen.”  Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing in a case that is the
centerpiece of the largest U.S. crackdown on hedge fund insider
trading. Prosecutors said he used tips from a network of
traders, corporate officials and colleagues to generate $45
million in profits in a scheme that went on for seven years.  Rajaratnam said his and his funds’ trades were based on
Galleon research and that investment advisers routinely speak to
company insiders in the search for news.  Prosecutors have cited about three dozen companies in which
there were tips, some coming from company employees and some
from workers at professional firms representing the companies.
Proof about the leaks will come from corporate officials, ex-
Galleon traders, and wiretaps of Rajaratnam’s phone calls in
which accused accomplices refer to companies such as Intel and
Broadcom Corp., prosecutors said.    Ed Canaday , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman; Pen
Pendleton, a spokesman for New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) ;
Yolande Daeninck, a spokeswoman for New York-based McKinsey; and
Paul Fox, a spokesman for Cincinnati-based Procter & Gamble, and
Andrew Merrill, a spokesman for Ruiz, declined to comment.
Carrie Kizer, a spokeswoman for Berkshire Hathaway, didn’t
return a call.    Chuck Mulloy , a spokesman for Santa Clara-based Intel, and
Jeff Young, a spokesman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Akamai, said their firms have been cooperating with prosecutors.
Intel’s cooperation began a decade ago as part of a probe of
leaks by Khan, Mulloy said. Spokespeople for other companies
didn’t return calls or declined to comment on whether they
feared they’d be sued or see their corporate reputations suffer.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here. For the
latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil
complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Attorneys General Push for Loan Reductions, Seek Bank Accord  State attorneys general are pushing lenders to reduce loan
balances and said they hope to reach a final settlement with
banks over their mortgage-servicing and foreclosure practices
within two months.  The states along with federal agencies submitted a 27-page
settlement proposal last week to the country’s five largest
mortgage servicers and aim to reach an agreement that leads to
more loan modifications for homeowners having trouble making
their payments, attorneys general said yesterday.  “The result we come to can have an impact on the housing
market and the economy,” North Carolina Attorney General Roy
Cooper told reporters at a meeting of attorneys general in  Washington . “We don’t want uncertainty to linger very long.”  State attorneys general and federal agencies, including the  Justice Department , the Treasury Department and the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, submitted the proposal as a
starting point for negotiating a settlement with the servicing
industry, said Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, who is helping
to lead the talks with the banks.  Miller declined to comment about the role of banking
regulators in the negotiations. Officials are talking with
investors in mortgage-backed securities, Miller said.  The companies that received the settlement terms from
officials are  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , Ally Financial Inc. and Citigroup Inc. They service
59 percent of U.S. home loans, Miller said.  Jumana Bauwens, a Bank of America spokeswoman, declined to
comment, as did  Mark Rodgers , a Citigroup spokesman, and  Gina
Proia , an Ally spokeswoman.  Vickee Adams, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, and JPMorgan
spokeswoman  Jennifer Zuccarelli  didn’t immediately respond to
requests for comment yesterday.  Tam Ormiston, a deputy attorney general in Iowa, declined
to comment yesterday about the settlement discussions. He didn’t
rule out criminal prosecutions.  For more, click here.  U.S. Forms Criminal Task Force on Deepwater Horizon Disaster  The U.S. Justice Department has formed the Deepwater
Horizon Task Force to consolidate its investigation into
possible criminal charges stemming from the drilling rig
explosion that killed 11 workers and caused the worst offshore
oil spill in U.S. history.  The Justice Department said in a statement that the task
force brings together “separate and simultaneous
investigations” by its criminal and environmental and natural
resources divisions and the U.S. Attorney’s Office in New
Orleans.  “After assessing the overlap of the cases and in an effort
to avoid duplication of effort, Deputy Attorney General James
Cole has decided to establish a single task force with authority
to oversee all facets of the investigation,”  Wyn Hornbuckle , a
Justice Department spokesman, said in the statement.  The three groups have been probing the April 20 “fire,
explosion and aftermath” of the Deepwater Horizon incident
since U.S. Attorney General  Eric Holder  announced on June 1 that
the government would seek potential criminal charges and civil
penalties.  The task force will be led by John Buretta, criminal
division senior counsel, and supervised by Assistant Attorney
General Lanny Breuer of the criminal division, according to the
statement. Much of the task force’s activities will be based in
New Orleans, where the Justice Department established a command
post last year, Hornbuckle said.  Eleven rig workers died and more than 4.1 million barrels
of crude gushed into the  Gulf of Mexico  after the Deepwater
Horizon rig exploded and sank. The U.S. has sued  BP Plc (BP/) , which
owned the well, and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , which owned the rig.  Atheros Delays Shareholder Vote on $3 Billion Qualcomm Sale    Atheros Communications Inc. (ATHR)  postponed a shareholder vote on
a planned $3.2 billion takeover of the company by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) 
after a judge ordered that more information be released about
the deal.  The vote was scheduled for yesterday and will be delayed
until March 18, San Jose, California-based Atheros said in a
statement.  “The proxy statement currently fails to provide the
required disclosures” about advisory fees and “all material
facts” about deal-negotiations by Craig Barratt, chief
executive officer of Atheros, and what he would be paid if the
sale goes through, Delaware Chancery Court Judge John Noble said
in a 38-page opinion made public yesterday in Wilmington.  Atheros was sued in January by shareholders contending the
$45 per-share offer is inadequate. Atheros provides expertise in
wireless technology and home-computer networking. Qualcomm,
based in  San Diego , is the world’s largest maker of
semiconductor chips for mobile-phones.  “The proposed transaction arose out of a nearly non-
existent sales process that was orchestrated” by Barratt, who
stands to gain benefits including $24 million in stock options,
plaintiffs’ lawyer P. Bradford deLeeuw said in court papers.  Molly Mulloy, an Atheros spokeswoman, said in a phone
interview the company doesn’t think delaying the vote “will
impact the completion of our original timetable and we expect to
close in the first half of this year.”  The consolidated case is In re Atheros Communications Inc.
Shareholder Litigation, CA6124, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Connecticut Hedge Fund Manager Pleads Guilty to Fraud  Francisco Illarramendi, a hedge fund manager in
Connecticut, pleaded guilty to fraud and two other men were
charged with conspiracy in a U.S. probe of an alleged Ponzi
scheme with potential investor and creditor losses of hundreds
of millions of dollars, prosecutors said.  Illarramendi, 42, pleaded guilty yesterday in federal court
in Bridgeport to two counts of wire fraud and one count each of
securities fraud, investment-adviser fraud and conspiracy to
obstruct justice, said U.S. Attorney David Fein in Connecticut
in an e-mailed statement.  The plea couldn’t be confirmed immediately in electronic
court records. John Gleason, an attorney for Illarramendi,
declined to comment.  From 2006 to February, Illarramendi used money from new
investors to pay returns he promised to earlier ones using
fraudulent documents that purported to show the hedge funds had
hundreds of millions of dollars in credits, Fein said.
Illarramendi, Juan Carlos Guillen Zerpa, 43, and Juan Carlos
Horna Napolitano, 40, allegedly conspired to obstruct a
Securities and Exchange Commission investigation of the hedge
funds, according to the statement.  Robert Targ, an attorney for Zerpa, couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment. Dan Forman, an attorney for Napolitano,
didn’t immediately return a message seeking comment.  The SEC case is SEC v. Illarramendi, 11-78, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (New Haven).  Lehman Mortgage Bondholders Fail to Win Note Default Ruling  Investors in mortgage-backed bonds sold by  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  lost a case to have the notes declared in default,
which they’d brought to increase their chances of getting paid
earlier.  The Court of Appeal in  London  upheld a lower court  ruling 
against holders of bonds that were part of the Eurosail-UK 2007-
3BL Plc transaction sold in 2007. Lehman, which filed for
bankruptcy protection in September 2008, raised 650 million
pounds ($1.1 billion) from the deal, which packaged U.K. home
loans into bonds.  BNY Corporate Trustee Services Ltd., the financing’s
trustee, brought the original case after holders of $405 million
of so-called class A3 notes asked it to call an event of default
because of the issuer’s insolvency. If they’d won, these
investors would no longer have had to wait for their money until
the more senior class A1 and A2 noteholders were repaid in full,  Fitch Ratings  said after the original judgment in September.  Yesterday’s appeal court judgment “is generally positive”
for the U.K. mortgage-backed securities market, said Conor
Downey, a London-based partner at law firm Paul Hastings Janofsky & Walker LLP. “Most deals even if they have seen drops
in asset values, can apply the decision and form decisions that
they are solvent and able to continue to trade,” he said.  Eurosail’s risk was hedged with interest-rate and currency
swaps with Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc., which were in
turn guaranteed by Lehman Brothers. The financing unit filed for
bankruptcy a month after its parent, and the swap agreements
were terminated in November 2009. Eurosail has filed claims
against Lehman Brothers seeking more than $221 million to cover
losses.  The case is BNY Corporate Trustee Services Ltd. v.
Eurosail-UK 2007-3BL Plc & ors, A2/2010/2046, Court of Appeal
(London).  For more, click here.  Bayer’s Cipro Accord Won’t Be Questioned by U.S. High Court  The U.S. Supreme Court, rebuffing calls to scrutinize “pay
for delay” drug settlements, refused to revive a suit accusing  Bayer AG (BAYN)  of paying almost $400 million to forestall competition
to its Cipro antibiotic.  The court, without comment, yesterday rejected an appeal
from drugstore chains that sought to press an antitrust suit
over a 1997 settlement between Bayer and Barr Laboratories Inc.,
now part of  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  Under the
accord, Bayer paid Barr $398 million, while Barr dropped its
challenge to a Bayer patent and agreed not to sell a generic
version of Cipro until June 2003.  Opponents say such settlements are rampant in the drug
industry, costing consumers $3.5 billion a year, according to
the Federal Trade Commission, which has led the criticism.
Consumer advocates and 32 states joined the pharmacies and a
drug wholesaler in urging Supreme Court review.  “This case involves one of the most controversial business
practices in the United States in one of the most important
segments of the economy,” the chains argued in their appeal.
The group includes two of the three largest U.S. drugstore
companies,  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Rite-Aid Corp. (RAD)   The case is Louisiana Wholesale Drug v. Bayer, 10-762, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  Apollo Group Rejected by U.S. High Court on $300 Million Award  The U.S. Supreme Court refused to question a jury verdict
that may force  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , the owner of the University of
Phoenix, to pay more than $300 million for deceiving
shareholders.  The justices yesterday rejected an appeal from Apollo,
accused of withholding an Education Department report that said
the company was illegally paying recruiters on the basis of
enrollment numbers. Apollo, the largest U.S. for-profit college
operator, said the suing shareholders didn’t show that the
eventual release of the report’s details caused the company’s
prices to fall.  Exactly how much Apollo must pay will depend on how many
shareholders file claims. An expert witness for the suing
shareholders testified at trial that the verdict might affect as
many as 50 million shares, meaning Apollo would owe $277.5
million, plus interest.  Phoenix-based Apollo has set aside $177 million to cover
damages and other litigation costs. The company said in a
regulatory filing in January that it estimates damages will be
between $127 million to $228 million.  The company said in an e-mailed statement that it “has
already fully accrued the estimated liability in relation to
this litigation.”  In a court filing in August, the company said the jury
verdict “could result in a total payment of an amount between
$200 and $300 million.” That range represents a “worst-case
scenario,” said  Manny Rivera , a company spokesman.  The dispute stems from an Education Department report
delivered to the company privately in February 2004. The report
said the company needed to make “substantial and comprehensive
changes to the salary compensation system for its recruiters and
their direct supervisors.”  Apollo agreed to revamp its compensation system and on
Sept. 7, 2004, the company announced it was paying $9.8 million
to resolve the Education Department’s investigation. The company
revealed the existence of the report, without providing details.  The following day, the company’s shares fell from $82.72 to
$82.07, a drop the suing shareholders said would have been
greater had the company been upfront about the report. By Sept.
21, after a series of newspaper articles provided more details
and a securities analyst had downgraded the stock, shares had
fallen to $72.00.  Apollo officials said during the case that they didn’t
disclose the report because their lawyers told them it was
preliminary and flawed.  The case is Apollo Group v. Policeman’s Annuity and Benefit
Fund of Chicago, 10-649, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Stern Firm to Cease Foreclosure Work, Unit Says in Filing  The Law Offices of David J. Stern PA, under investigation
in Florida for its foreclosure practices, will stop processing
home-seizure cases by the end of the month, according to an
affiliated company.  Stern’s firm “will be ceasing the practice of law with
respect to all pending foreclosure matters,” according to a
filing yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission by  DJSP Enterprises Inc. (DJSPU) , which provides non-legal
services for the firm. “As a result, the company does not
expect to receive any further file referrals from this
customer.”  Stern and his firm are under investigation in Florida for
allegedly “fabricating and/or presenting false and misleading
documents in foreclosure cases,” according to the attorney
general’s  website . Shannon Knowles, a spokeswoman for Attorney
General Pam Bondi, said the investigation hasn’t ended.  “It doesn’t stop” because the firm is closing its
foreclosure practice, Knowles said.  No one answered the phone at the Plantation, Florida,
office that the law firm and DJSP share. Stern’s attorney,
Jeffrey Tew, said the firm would stop handling foreclosures and
declined to comment further.    Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  last year barred the firm from
handling their foreclosure cases.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  said in October
that it had stopped directing foreclosure work to the firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  