-- 
Rajaratnam Jury Candidates Ask `Lloyd Who?' on Insider Trial's First Day

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-03-09T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/rajaratnam-trial-brings-early-defense-victory-and-a-question-lloyd-who-.html
In the days before the trial of
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, much of the pre-
trial legal wrangling focused on whether Rajaratnam would be
harmed by publicity about the case.    John Dowd , his lawyer, complained that jurors were likely
to be biased against Rajaratnam after the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission filed a civil action against a potential
witness,  Rajat Gupta , a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director
accused by the SEC of tipping Rajaratnam.  Dowd may not have needed to worry.  Of the first 40 potential jurors questioned by U.S.
District Judge  Richard Holwell  in  Manhattan  yesterday, only
eight had heard of Rajaratnam. The judge, after privately
questioning those eight, concluded that only one of them should
be excused from the case.  Holwell also read the names of dozens of people who will
testify or be mentioned during the trial, and asked the
candidates whether they had heard of any of them. The names
mentioned included Goldman Sachs Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Blankfein, who may be a witness for the prosecution. Not a
single juror had heard of Blankfein, who testified before
Congress last year about his firm’s role in the 2008 financial
crisis.  And the judge mispronounced Blankfein’s name. Instead of
pronouncing the second syllable as “fine,” Holwell rhymed it
with “bean.”  Early Victory  The biggest insider-trading trial in a generation began
with a legal victory for Rajaratnam.  As Holwell took the bench at 9:50 a.m., he told the lawyers
that he agreed with the defense on an important legal principle.
As the potential jurors waited to enter the courtroom, Holwell
said he would instruct the jury selected to hear the case that
they may convict Rajaratnam only if he knew his alleged tipper
had breached a legal duty owed to the company from which the
news emanated.  Holwell said his ruling was only “preliminary,” and
prosecutors briefly tried to talk him out of a decision that may
make it harder for the government to prove its case.  “There’s a more nuanced instruction,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney  Reed Brodsky  told Holwell.  The lawyers said they would argue the issue in far greater
depth before the judge sends the case to the jury.  Nothing on Martha  The Rajaratnam trial may be the most far-reaching financial
trial on  Wall Street  in years. Still, he’s got nothing on  Martha Stewart  when it comes to media star power.  Outside the courthouse yesterday were three satellite
trucks. As jury selection began, just 18 or so journalists sat
in the back row of the courtroom. Courthouse officials had set
aside a separate room for journalists squeezed out of the
courtroom. That space was mostly empty of reporters.  Compare that to the 2004 trial of Stewart, who was
convicted of obstructing a government investigation into her
stock trades. In that trial, dozens of journalists filled three
rows of courtroom benches on an almost daily basis. That throng
included celebrity reporters such as Dominick Dunne, who was
writing for  Vanity Fair .  Stewart was greeted outside the courthouse on Day 1 of her
trial by about 100 photographers, and her supporters held
placards high.  Seven years and three days after Stewart’s conviction,
Rajaratnam encountered just a few cameramen as he entered the
courthouse and proceeded through security.  Dark Suit, Hunched  Among the least noticeable characters in the courtroom was
the defendant himself.  Rajaratnam, wearing a dark double-breasted blazer, walked
into the courtroom with seven lawyers. There was no sign of
family or friends.  While other white-collar defendants including Stewart and
former WorldCom Inc. CEO Bernard Ebbers sat at the defense table
next to their lawyers during trial, Rajaratnam took a seat
yesterday behind Dowd at the second of two mahogany tables.  As jury selection got under way, he was quiet, hunched
forward in his seat. Unlike his lawyers, he didn’t crane his
neck to look at the 100 potential jurors summoned to the
courtroom.  Holwell told lawyers in the case to be ready to give their
opening statements today after they finish selecting 12 jurors
and six alternates.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 