-- 
Rajaratnam, Atheros, Lehman, Bayer, Appollo in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-03-08T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/rajaratnam-atheros-lehman-bayer-appollo-in-court-news.html
  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , McKinsey &
Co. and  Intel Corp. (INTC)  are among the companies that may be sued or
suffer damage to their reputations after witnesses at the trial
of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam describe insider
leaks, Bloomberg News’s David Glovin, Patricia Hurtado and Bob
Van Voris report.  Rajaratnam, 52, goes on trial today for trading on tips
gleaned from sources inside these and other companies, including  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  and
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. If the billionaire native of Sri
Lanka is convicted by a Manhattan jury, U.S. prosecutors may
seek to jail him for more than 10 years.  The companies from which the leaks emanated may find
themselves in court explaining how sensitive data wound up with
traders at Galleon. While the actions of a rogue employee who
leaked tips won’t justify a lawsuit, evidence that a firm’s
executives intentionally gave data to favored traders to
manipulate share price may be grounds to sue a company, said
Mark Rifkin, a  New York  lawyer who represents investors.  “If a company made a decision for whatever reason that it
wanted to make information available to select individuals, that
in my opinion would be unlawful,” said Rifkin, of Wolf
Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz LLP, in an interview. “We’re
paying close attention to the entire insider trading case as it
unfolds because you never know what’s going to happen.”  Rajaratnam denies wrongdoing in a case that is the
centerpiece of the largest U.S. crackdown on hedge fund insider
trading. Prosecutors said he used tips from a network of
traders, corporate officials and colleagues to generate $45
million in profits in a scheme that went on for seven years.  Rajaratnam said his and his funds’ trades were based on
Galleon research and that investment advisers routinely speak to
company insiders in the search for news.  Prosecutors have cited about three dozen companies in which
there were tips, some coming from company employees and some
from workers at professional firms representing the companies.
Proof about the leaks will come from corporate officials, ex-
Galleon traders, and wiretaps of Rajaratnam’s phone calls in
which accused accomplices refer to companies such as Intel and
Broadcom Corp., prosecutors said.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York   Manhattan ).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here. For the
latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil
complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Officials Said to Aim for Foreclosure Deal Within Two Months  State attorneys general and federal officials hope to reach
a final settlement with banks over their mortgage-servicing and
foreclosure practices within two months, a person familiar with
the negotiations said.  The officials, who submitted a 27-page settlement proposal
last week to start negotiations, aim to reach an agreement with
the banks in six weeks to two months, said the person, who
didn’t want to be identified because the talks are private.  Attorneys general met yesterday in  Washington , where they
were scheduled to get an update on the investigation into the
mortgage-servicing practices of banks and the efforts to reach a
settlement that could overhaul their procedures. The states
began the probe last year after complaints that financial
institutions submitted faulty paperwork in foreclosure cases.  Homeowner activists protested outside the meeting of the
attorneys general, criticizing banks and demanding state and
federal officials reach a tough settlement with the companies.
They also called for criminal prosecutions.  The proposal given to the banks last week calls for “a
binding legal requirement” for how they service loans and
conduct home foreclosures, said Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for  Iowa  Attorney General Tom Miller. Miller is helping to lead the
investigation and settlement talks.  The proposal didn’t include the monetary penalties
officials would seek.  Tam Ormiston, a deputy attorney general in Iowa, declined
to comment yesterday about the settlement discussions. He didn’t
rule out criminal prosecutions.  Atheros Delays Shareholder Vote on $3 Billion Qualcomm Sale  Atheros Communications Inc. postponed a shareholder vote on
a planned $3.2 billion takeover of the company by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) 
after a judge ordered that more information be released about
the deal.  The vote was scheduled for yesterday and will be delayed
until March 18,  San Jose , California-based Atheros said in a
statement.  “The proxy statement currently fails to provide the
required disclosures” about advisory fees and “all material
facts” about deal-negotiations by Craig Barratt, chief
executive officer of Atheros, and what he would be paid if the
sale goes through, Delaware Chancery Court Judge John Noble said
in a 38-page opinion made public yesterday in Wilmington.  Atheros was sued in January by shareholders contending the
$45 per-share offer is inadequate. Atheros provides expertise in
wireless technology and home-computer networking. Qualcomm,
based in  San Diego , is the world’s largest maker of
semiconductor chips for mobile-phones.  “The proposed transaction arose out of a nearly non-
existent sales process that was orchestrated” by Barratt, who
stands to gain benefits including $24 million in stock options,
plaintiffs’ lawyer P. Bradford deLeeuw said in court papers.  Molly Mulloy, an Atheros spokeswoman, said in a phone
interview the company doesn’t think delaying the vote “will
impact the completion of our original timetable and we expect to
close in the first half of this year.”  The consolidated case is In re  Atheros Communications Inc. (ATHR) 
Shareholder Litigation, CA6124, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Lehman Mortgage Bondholders Fail to Win Note Default Ruling  Investors in mortgage-backed bonds sold by  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  lost a case to have the notes declared in default,
which they’d brought to increase their chances of getting paid
earlier.  The Court of Appeal in  London  upheld a lower court  ruling 
against holders of bonds that were part of the Eurosail-UK 2007-
3BL Plc transaction sold in 2007. Lehman, which filed for
bankruptcy protection in September 2008, raised 650 million
pounds ($1.1 billion) from the deal, which packaged U.K. home
loans into bonds.  BNY Corporate Trustee Services Ltd., the financing’s
trustee, brought the original case after holders of $405 million
of so-called class A3 notes asked it to call an event of default
because of the issuer’s insolvency. If they’d won, these
investors would no longer have had to wait for their money until
the more senior class A1 and A2 noteholders were repaid in full,  Fitch Ratings  said after the original judgment in September.  Yesterday’s appeal court judgment “is generally positive”
for the U.K. mortgage-backed securities market, said Conor
Downey, a London-based partner at law firm Paul Hastings Janofsky & Walker LLP. “Most deals even if they have seen drops
in asset values, can apply the decision and form decisions that
they are solvent and able to continue to trade,” he said.  Eurosail’s risk was hedged with interest-rate and currency
swaps with Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc., which were in
turn guaranteed by Lehman Brothers. The financing unit filed for
bankruptcy a month after its parent, and the swap agreements
were terminated in November 2009. Eurosail has filed claims
against Lehman Brothers seeking more than $221 million to cover
losses.  The case is BNY Corporate Trustee Services Ltd. v.
Eurosail-UK 2007-3BL Plc & ors, A2/2010/2046, Court of Appeal
(London).  For more, click here.  Bayer’s Cipro Accord Won’t Be Questioned by U.S. High Court  The U.S. Supreme Court, rebuffing calls to scrutinize “pay
for delay” drug settlements, refused to revive a suit accusing  Bayer AG (BAYN)  of paying almost $400 million to forestall competition
to its Cipro antibiotic.  The court, without comment, yesterday rejected an appeal
from drugstore chains that sought to press an antitrust suit
over a 1997 settlement between Bayer and Barr Laboratories Inc.,
now part of  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  Under the
accord, Bayer paid Barr $398 million, while Barr dropped its
challenge to a Bayer patent and agreed not to sell a generic
version of Cipro until June 2003.  Opponents say such settlements are rampant in the drug
industry, costing consumers $3.5 billion a year, according to
the Federal Trade Commission, which has led the criticism.
Consumer advocates and 32 states joined the pharmacies and a
drug wholesaler in urging Supreme Court review.  “This case involves one of the most controversial business
practices in the  United States  in one of the most important
segments of the economy,” the chains argued in their appeal.
The group includes two of the three largest U.S. drugstore
companies,  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS)  and  Rite-Aid Corp. (RAD)   The case is Louisiana Wholesale Drug v. Bayer, 10-762, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  Apollo Group Rejected by U.S. High Court on $300 Million Award  The U.S. Supreme Court refused to question a jury verdict
that may force  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , the owner of the University of
Phoenix, to pay more than $300 million for deceiving
shareholders.  The justices yesterday rejected an appeal from Apollo,
accused of withholding an Education Department report that said
the company was illegally paying recruiters on the basis of
enrollment numbers. Apollo, the largest U.S. for-profit college
operator, said the suing shareholders didn’t show that the
eventual release of the report’s details caused the company’s
prices to fall.  Exactly how much Apollo must pay will depend on how many
shareholders file claims. An expert witness for the suing
shareholders testified at trial that the verdict might affect as
many as 50 million shares, meaning Apollo would owe $277.5
million, plus interest.  Phoenix-based Apollo has set aside $177 million to cover
damages and other litigation costs. The company said in a
regulatory filing in January that it estimates damages will be
between $127 million to $228 million.  In a court filing in August, the company said the jury
verdict “could result in a total payment of an amount between
$200 and $300 million.” That range represents a “worst-case
scenario,” said  Manny Rivera , a company spokesman.  The dispute stems from an Education Department report
delivered to the company privately in February 2004. The report
said the company needed to make “substantial and comprehensive
changes to the salary compensation system for its recruiters and
their direct supervisors.”  Apollo agreed to revamp its compensation system and on
Sept. 7, 2004, the company announced it was paying $9.8 million
to resolve the Education Department’s investigation. The company
revealed the existence of the report, without providing details.  The following day, the company’s shares fell from $82.72 to
$82.07, a drop the suing shareholders said would have been
greater had the company been upfront about the report. By Sept.
21, after a series of newspaper articles provided more details
and a securities analyst had downgraded the stock, shares had
fallen to $72.00.  Apollo officials said during the case that they didn’t
disclose the report because their lawyers told them it was
preliminary and flawed.  The case is Apollo Group v. Policeman’s Annuity and Benefit
Fund of  Chicago , 10-649, U.S. Supreme Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  