-- 
Rand Depreciates as Oil Falls From 29-Month High, Speculation Bets Reverse

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-03-08T13:51:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/rand-fluctuates-as-oil-falls-from-29-month-high-speculation-bets-reverse.html
The rand depreciated for the second
day against the dollar as oil fell from a 29-month high on
speculation investors reversed bets oil prices would rise and
the dollar would weaken.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest economy declined as much
as 0.7 percent to 6.9283 per dollar and traded 0.5 percent
weaker at 6.9160 by 3:41 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Crude retreated as much as 2 percent to $103.33 a barrel as
speculation that fighting may subside in  Libya  eased concern
supply cuts will spread through the Middle East. Al-Jazeera
reported Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi offered to relinquish power.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has made up
for supply cuts in the North African country, Qatar’s oil
minister said today.  “The market has become exceptionally short-dollar and
long-oil and, if either starts reversing, the rand could face a
swift sell-off possibly, back up to 6.95 rand if not 7.03
rand,” Standard Bank Group Ltd. analysts led by  Michael Keenan 
wrote in an e-mailed note from Johannesburg today.  South African Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said
yesterday the “strongish” rand is helping cushion the country
from inflation generated by rising global oil and food prices.
The comments supported the rand, Keenan wrote.  “The fact that rand bulls did not make more of the
aforementioned positive developments could also be a sign that
from a risk-reward perspective, participants are reluctant to
further increase their long-rand positions,” he wrote.  Rand Strength  The rand has climbed 5.6 percent against the dollar since
Feb. 15. The currency strengthened 11 percent in 2010, the
second-best performer among more than 20 emerging-market
currencies against the dollar after  Malaysia ’s ringgit. That’s
helped to keep inflation inside the central bank’s 3 percent to
6 percent target range, enabling the bank to reduce its
benchmark interest rate to a 30-year low of 5.5 percent.  South African bonds fell for a fourth day after Moody’s
Investors Service cut Greece’s credit rating by three notches
yesterday, curbing demand for higher-yielding, emerging-market
assets.  The 13.5 percent bond due September 2015 fell 9 cents to
120.741 rand, the lowest level since Oct. 28, 2008. The yield
rose by 2 basis points to 7.94 percent.  The  Finance Ministry  in  Athens  yesterday called the move,
which sent its rating to B1 from Ba1, “completely
unjustified.” Moody’s said lagging tax collection and
“implementation risks” would make it more difficult to reach
budget-cutting targets in a 110 billion-euro ($153 billion)
bailout.  The downgrading of  Greece ’s sovereign rating by Moody’s
“hurt European peripheral debt and more generally damaged
sentiment to the high-yielding component of the asset class,”
the Standard Bank analysts wrote. “Today is likely to see
further upside to South African rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 