-- 
Reid Backs House Approach to Revenue in Tax-Compliance Repeal

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-03-08T20:21:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/reid-backs-house-approach-to-revenue-in-tax-compliance-repeal.html
Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
endorsed House Republicans’ approach to repealing a tax-
compliance mandate in last year’s health-care overhaul.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said he preferred the House
proposal for covering the $21.9 billion in revenue that wouldn’t
be collected over the next decade as a result of the repeal.  “Me, personally, I like the House pay-for better than
ours,” Reid told reporters today in  Washington . “So we’ll have
to see.”  Reid didn’t say the Senate would pass the House version or
indicate when a Senate vote might occur. The House voted 314-112
on March 3 to pass legislation repealing the tax-compliance
rule.  The provision was opposed by small businesses soon after
the health-care law was enacted. Set to take effect in 2012, the
provision would require businesses to report more transactions
to the  Internal Revenue Service  as a way of preventing the
underreporting of income.  Lawmakers of both parties agree that the requirement should
be repealed though they disagree over how to cover the forgone
revenue.  The House bill would curtail another aspect of the health
care law by requiring more people to pay back overpayments of
health insurance subsidies when their income becomes greater
than the income used to calculate the subsidy.  The Senate version of the repeal measure, passed last month
as part of a broader aviation bill, offset the forgone revenue
by rescinding about $40 billion in previously approved spending.  Senator Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat who proposed
the cuts, still supports that version, said her spokesman,
Cullen Schwarz.  “She does continue to believe though that her version of
this provision, which cuts spending so that we can help small
business without adding to the deficit, is the best approach,”
he said.  President  Barack Obama  supports repealing the compliance
requirement and has called it a flaw. The administration has
raised concerns about both offset proposals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  