-- 
Renishaw Targets Expansion in India, Mexico, Spurns Suitors

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-03-08T15:58:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/renishaw-targets-expansion-in-india-mexico-spurns-approaches.html
  Renishaw Plc (RSW) , whose precision probes
were used to inspect the Concorde’s engines, has spurned
takeover approaches from several rivals and plans to continue
growing alone by expanding in  India , China and  Brazil .  The British company, whose shares have gained 38 percent
this year, is upgrading plants in Pune, India and Sao Paolo and
plans to open a subsidiary in  Mexico  within six months, Chief
Executive Officer Ben Taylor said in an interview.  Renishaw’s stock jumped 20 percent on Jan. 26, when the
company surprised investors with a four-fold gain in earnings.
Demand for probes and instruments used in dentistry, aerospace
and defense in countries such as China spurred the gain.
Growth has attracted suitors and management had to turn down
approaches, taking the view that “the bigger the company, the
worse,” Taylor said.  “Every so often a private jet brings in someone who wants
to talk,” Taylor said in an interview at the company’s Wotton-
under-Edge, western England-based headquarters. “If you named
some of the big U.S. multi-billion-dollar companies that have
metrology businesses, some of those of course have come.”  Taylor said Renishaw is also “not big on partnerships,”
unlike other British manufacturers. Invensys Plc, which signed a
partnership accord last year with Chinese trainmaker CSR Corp.
to sell its railway software in the local market as well as in
southeast  Asia , the Middle East and India.  Renishaw, still majority owned by its cofounders, has
gained 42 percent this year, making it the seventh best-
performer in the 625-member  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX) , according to
Bloomberg data. The shares climbed 4 percent, or 68 pence, to
1,752 pence as of 3:53 p.m. in London, giving a market value of
1.3 billion pounds ($2.1 billion).  Future Placement  The company, which boosted six-month sales by 75 percent,
is targeting more than 10 percent growth annually, a pace that
could be continued for a number of years, Taylor said.  Renishaw rates India, Brazil and Mexico as the most
promising developing markets aside from  China , now its largest
market. It has outgrown its facility in  Sao Paulo  and will build
a larger one to sell precision measuring and calibration
equipment to the country’s buoyant aerospace and automotive
industries, he added.  “Renishaw should be the classic model for any engineering
company and is one of the great British companies in high growth
mode,” said Ben Thefaut, an analyst at Arden Partners, who
rates the stock as a “core buy” for 2011. “They are more like
a private Germany company; they don’t have short-term views on
life like others that leaves them so vulnerable to cyclical
downturns.”  Takeover Protection  Renishaw’s biggest customers include Hexagon,  Nikon Corp. (7731) ,
Yamazaki Co.,  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  and more than 20 Chinese
companies.  Co-founders Chairman David McMurtry, 71, and Deputy
Chairman John Deer, 73, retain 53 percent of the shares between
them, according to Bloomberg data. The anchor investors provide
protection against takeover attempts, though one option for the
company would be a private placement, Taylor said.  “We’re not a target, but I’m not in any way saying that
when the time comes that there might not be a placement,”
Taylor said. “It could be that David and John think the best
thing we can do is place Renishaw somehow with the new owners,
rather than make it a free-for-all. They have both indicated a
desire to do the right thing for the company, rather than
maximize their return.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in  London  at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  