-- 
Revolving Door Keeps Spinning as Former U.S. Lawmakers Join Lobbying Firms

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-03-08T17:38:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/revolving-door-keeps-spinning-as-former-u-s-lawmakers-join-lobbying-firms.html
The decor of former Senator  Robert Bennett ’s new office underscores his experience: a framed copy
of an appropriations bill he shepherded into law and the pen
then-President  George W. Bush  used to sign it, an award for
presiding over the Senate for 100 hours in a single session, and
a shofar mounted on a base thanking him for his support of  Israel .  Bennett, a Utah Republican who joined the lawyer-lobbying
firm of Arent Fox LLP, is part of the latest crop of ex-
lawmakers putting their background to work for those seeking
help from the federal government.  Rules enacted in 2007 by a Democratic Congress haven’t
slowed the revolving door linking Capitol Hill to nearby
lobbying offices. Even as they must wait one to two years before
attempting to directly influence former colleagues, ex-lawmakers
can immediately plot strategy, offer advice and help their new
clients navigate both Congress and federal agencies.  Bennett, 77, said his firm’s clients “will benefit from me
being able to sit down with them and say, ‘Yes, you have a grief
that’s legitimate,’ or ‘No, you don’t.’ They have many lobbyists
who are able to take the outcome of that strategic advice and
counseling up to the Hill.”  At least 17 ex-lawmakers who left office in January have
joined law firms, trade associations or other lobbying
enterprises, or set up their own consultancies, according to
tracking by Bloomberg News and the  Center for Responsive
Politics , a Washington-based research group.  Movie Group  Former Senator Chris Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat, earlier
this month was named chief executive officer of the Washington-
based  Motion Picture Association  of America, the trade
association for Hollywood studios. Two freshmen House members
defeated last November for re-election, Democrat Walt Minnick of  Idaho  and Republican Charles Djou of  Hawaii , formed their own
firm.  “When racehorses retire, they go to stud; when members of
Congress retire, they go to K Street,” said  Rogan Kersh , an
associate dean at  New York University , referring to the location
of many Washington lobbying firms.  The migration hasn’t slowed in the wake of Tea Party-fueled
anger against Congress and the  budget deficit . And the
intensified push on Capitol Hill to cut federal spending could
amplify the clout of ex-lawmakers as groups fight over slices of
a diminishing budget pie, said Nels Olson, head of the  Washington  office of Korn/Ferry International, an executive
recruitment firm based in  Los Angeles .  “This is a time when you need to make sure your interests
are represented,” Olson said. Former lawmakers have
“relationships that can be advantageous.”  Tea Party View  Tea Party activists, who helped propel a House Republican
plan to cut $61 billion from the 2011 budget, say they don’t
care who lobbies, just that current members don’t listen to
pleas for programs.  “We’re watching” lawmakers “and we want them to resist
that lure,” said Mark Meckler, a co-founder and national
coordinator of the Tea Party Patriots.  “Citizen activists are going to outweigh any lobbyist in
Washington,” said Adam Brandon, a spokesman for FreedomWorks, a
Washington-based advocacy organization headed by former House
Majority Leader Dick Armey, a Texas Republican. “At the end of
the day, who’s going to get you elected?”  Political Casualty  Bennett, an 18-year Senate member, was one of the Tea
Party’s highest-profile political casualties. The insurgents
fueled the drive to deny him re-nomination last May at Utah’s
Republican convention where he was criticized for, among other
things, his  votes  for the 2008 bank bailout and a Medicare
prescription  drug benefit  in 2003 that increased the deficit.  He was joined at Arent Fox by former Senator  Byron Dorgan ,
a North Dakota Democrat who chose not to seek re-election last
year.  The firm was paid $1.9 million to lobby in 2010 by clients
including  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , based in Corona,  California , according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
Both Bennett and Dorgan served on the  Senate Appropriations
Committee , which writes the government’s annual spending bills.  Lawmakers-turned-lobbyists say their new profession is a
logical extension of their career in public service.  “You see government as a way to solve problems,” said ex-
Representative Jim Walsh, a New York Republican now at K&L Gates
LLP. “When you leave the elected position, you still want to
solve problems. It’s continuing the role you enjoy.”  Health-Care Bill  Former Representative  Earl Pomeroy , a North Dakota Democrat
and one-time member of the  House Ways and Means Committee  who
lost re-election last year, said he will continue to work on the
health-care bill he supported in Congress at his new employer,
Alston & Bird LLP. The firm was paid $11.4 million last year by
clients including Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based  CVS Caremark
Corp. (CVS)  and Birmingham, Alabama-based  HealthSouth Corp. (HLS)   As lawmakers look to make changes to the 2010 law, which
expands coverage to tens of millions of uninsured Americans,
Pomeroy intends to help clients be part of the debate.  “There are two ironclad realities,” Pomeroy said of the
measure. “One, it will not be repealed in total and two, it
will not be implemented as passed. In between that has to be
worked out.”  Executive Branch  The restrictions former lawmakers must adhere to in
contacting ex-colleagues on Capitol Hill don’t apply to dealings
with the government’s executive branch. And their expertise in
navigating the bureaucracy can pay immediate dividends to
lobbying firms. “I have a 1½ inch-thick spreadsheet laying out
where all the funds are in federal agencies,” said Rich Gold,
head of the public policy and regulation practice group at
Holland & Knight LLP.  As for the anti-Washington fervor, Bennett predicted it
could prove transient.  “It will depend entirely on what the economy does and what
people feel about the future two years from now,” Bennett said.
“If the  unemployment rate  gets down below 8 percent and the
deficit shrinks back down, if people see a sense that maybe
things are not out of control, you will see this current
attitude of, ‘We hate Washington and everything connected to
it,’ disappear.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 