-- 
Rhodia Credits Show CO2 Trade Can Help Brazil, World Bank Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-03-08T00:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/rhodia-credits-show-co2-trade-can-help-brazil-world-bank-says.html
  Rhodia SA (RHA) ’s sale of 6 million carbon
credits to the World Bank’s Spanish Carbon Fund shows that
emissions trading can help emerging nations cut pollution and
potentially aid in their economic development, the lender said.  The credits for delivery through 2013 are generated under
the  United Nations ’ Clean Development Mechanism from a Rhodia
plant that produces adipic acid in Paulinia, Brazil, the French
chemical maker said Feb. 28. The fund chose to accept credits
from adipic acid, for an undisclosed price, because the Paulinia
project “helps our work beyond carbon finance,” the
Washington-based bank said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “In all carbon projects, the added revenue stream of the
carbon credits is important in facilitating the technology
change and can be instrumental in helping nations such as  Brazil 
in their development challenge,” said Mauro Azeredo, a
spokesman for the bank in Brasilia.  The European Union decided in January to prevent factories
and power stations within the bloc’s cap-and-trade program from
using future credits for projects that reduce nitrous oxide
generated in the manufacture of adipic acid. The EU regulator
said such credits create windfall profits for investors and
undermine the carbon market’s integrity. Emitters in the market
won’t be able to use them after April 30, 2013.  Developed nations such as  Spain , with targets under the
1997 Kyoto Protocol, will still be able to use credits from
projects that produce adipic acid after that date. Adipic acid
is used to make nylon and polyester.  UN credits for December were little changed yesterday at
11.90 euros ($16.62) a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in  London , having gained 4.4 percent so far this year.
Rhodia, based in Paris, makes plastics and perfume ingredients.  Curbing Pollution  Azeredo said the bank has helped Brazil curb pollution at
Cubatao, 50 kilometers (31 miles) south of  Sao Paulo , during the
past 30 years. Cubatao was “arguably one of the most polluted
industrial cities in the world in the 1980s,” he said.
“Cubatao dramatically improved its condition, and industrial
plants located there, including Rhodia, now have incentives to
continue to control their emissions.”  Elsewhere in Brazil, a project in  Rio de Janeiro  closed
down a dump site to generate energy and jobs, as well as create
carbon credits from reduced methane emissions, Azeredo said.  The Spanish Carbon Fund is capitalized at 220 million euros
and will commit its funding by Dec. 31, the bank said.  The  World Bank  has not announced a target for buying a
specific volume of emission credits, it said. “Its commitment
is to maximize its investments for its carbon funds,” Isabel Hagbrink, a spokeswoman in  Washington , said by e-mail.  The sale of Rhodia credits was arranged by Orbeo, the
emissions-trading venture of Rhodia and Societe Generale SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  