-- 
Peso, Ringgit Lead Declines in Asian Currencies on Oil Price-Rise Concern

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-03-08T08:29:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/ringgit-peso-lead-declines-in-asian-currencies-on-oil-price-rise-concern.html
The Philippine peso and Malaysia’s
ringgit led declines in Asian currencies on speculation unrest
in the Middle East and North  Africa  will push  oil prices  higher,
threatening global economic growth.  Crude reached a 29-month high yesterday as government
warplanes bombed rebel positions near the oil hub of Ras Lanuf
in  Libya , holder of Africa’s largest oil reserves. South Korea’s
finance ministry said March 7 the surge in fuel prices may
damage economic growth. Overseas investors sold $516 million
more Indonesian stocks than they bought this month through
yesterday, exchange data show.  “The money market is cautious about taking on risk because
higher oil prices from the Middle East tension could affect the
region’s economies,” said Akira Banno, a treasury adviser at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “It’s
working against risk appetite.”  The peso dropped 0.4 percent to 43.46 per dollar as of the
4 p.m. close in  Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The
ringgit fell 0.2 percent to 3.0320, the Singapore dollar
declined 0.3 percent to S$1.2676 and China’s yuan lost 0.07
percent to 6.5679.  The ringgit weakened for a second day on concern slowing
economic growth will make the central bank less likely to raise
borrowing costs later this week.  The currency retreated from near a 13-year high before a
report this week that economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict
will show factory output grew in January at the slowest pace in
14 months. Exports rose 3 percent in January from a year earlier,
the least in three months, the trade ministry said on March 4.  Malaysia ’s gross domestic product increased 4.8 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier, the slowest growth in a year.  Malaysian Rate Decision  Bank Negara Malaysia will keep its overnight rate at 2.75
percent when it meets on March 11, according to 15 of 19
economists in a Bloomberg survey. Four predicted an increase to
3 percent. Policy makers have not changed the rate since July.  The peso declined for a second day before a report on March
10 that may say growth in exports slowed in January. Overseas
sales increased 20.3 percent from a year earlier after having
climbed a revised 26.5 percent the previous month, according to
a Bloomberg survey of economists.    China ’s yuan fell the most in more than a week after
Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  rejected calls for faster
appreciation that countries including the U.S. say would help
remedy global trade imbalances.  The central bank set the reference rate for yuan trading
weaker for the first time in four days. It is “totally
unreasonable” to say the yuan is undervalued, and China does
not use its  exchange rate  to gain a competitive advantage, Chen
said yesterday at the National People’s Congress.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah weakened 0.1 percent to 8,788
per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Thailand’s
baht strengthened 0.2 percent to 30.37, South Korea’s won gained
0.1 percent to 1,117.82, while Taiwan’s dollar was little
changed at NT$29.437.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in  Singapore  at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  