-- 
Roubini Sees Double Dip for Advanced States If Oil Hits $140

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-03-08T14:07:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/roubini-says-oil-prices-at-140-may-result-in-double-dip-in-some-nations.html
  Nouriel Roubini , the economist who
predicted the global financial crisis, said an increase in  oil
prices  to $140 a barrel will cause some advanced economies to
slide back into recession.  Underlying how fragile the global economic recovery is,
Roubini said the  European Central Bank  may be making a mistake
by raising interest rates “too soon” when debt-ridden
countries on the euro region’s periphery struggle to restore the
competitiveness of exports.  “If you had the oil price going up to where it was in the
summer of 2008, at $140 a barrel, at that point some of the
advanced economies will start to double dip,” he told reporters
in Dubai today. “In the U.S., where growth is accelerating
fast, a 15 to 20 percent increase in oil prices, there won’t be  double dip , but growth reaching a stalled speed again.”  Popular revolts sweeping the Middle East and North Africa,
home to more than half of the world’s proven oil reserves, have
pushed Brent crude-oil prices close to $120. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. raised its forecast for  Brent crude  in the second quarter
of the year to $105 a barrel amid fighting in  Libya  between  Muammar Qaddafi  and rebels seeking to end his four-decade rule.  Crude for April delivery fell as much as $2.11 to $103.33 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , and was at $105 at 5:19 p.m. in Dubai. Yesterday, the
contract settled at $105.44, the highest since Sept. 26, 2008.
Prices are up 27 percent from a year ago.  IMF Forecast  In January, the  International Monetary Fund  revised its
forecast for global economic growth this year to 4.4 percent
from an earlier estimate of 4.2 percent, reflecting stronger
U.S. output based on tax-cut extensions, while emerging nations
lead the recovery.  Oil prices at their current levels probably won’t lead to a
“significant” acceleration in inflation in advanced economies
because they are recovering from a “severe recession” and
still face high unemployment, Roubini, 52, told a conference on  hedge funds  in the Persian Gulf emirate earlier today.  “Workers don’t have much wage-bargaining power,” he said.  Joblessness in the U.S. unexpectedly dropped to 8.9 percent
in February, according to a March 4 report from the Labor
Department. The rate fell for a third straight month to the
lowest level in almost two years as employers boosted payrolls
by 192,000 amid growing confidence in the expansion.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter, up from 2.6 percent in the previous three
months, according to figures from the Commerce Department.  ‘Barely Enough’  Still, Roubini said  job creation  this year in the U.S., the
world’s biggest economy, is going to be “barely enough to
satisfy the increase in labor supply.”  With unemployment keeping core inflation in check, raising
interest rates in some advanced economies too soon would be a
mistake, Roubini said.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on March 3 that
policy makers may boost borrowing costs as soon as next month to
fight increasing price pressures even as governments from  Spain 
to Ireland struggle to lower their budget deficits and revive
economic growth. Euro-region inflation quickened to 2.4 percent
last month, the fastest since October 2008.  “My view of it is that the ECB is worrying too much about
inflation,” Roubini said. A premature increase in interest
rates by European policy makers may put “significant” pressure
on the Bank of England to follow suit, he said.  U.K. Squeeze  The U.K. government is engaged in the country’s biggest
fiscal squeeze since World War II as growth faltered and the
economy shrank in the final quarter of 2010. With spending cuts
due to take effect from next month, Prime Minister  David Cameron 
is trying to drive growth in the private sector by easing
planning restrictions, cutting business taxes and making it
easier for small companies to bid for public contracts.  Soaring food and energy costs pushed inflation to 4 percent
in January, twice the  Bank of England ’s target. While the
central bank expects inflation to accelerate in the coming
months, it has kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged.
Still, three of the Bank of England’s nine policy makers last
month voted for an increase.  “In the U.K., things are even more complicated because
even before the monetary and fiscal tightening, fourth-quarter
growth was negative,” Roubini said. “Monetary and fiscal
tightening is coming to the U.K. at the worst of all times, when
the economic activity is weak.”  The U.K. economy may expand 2 percent this year and 2.3
percent in 2012, according to IMF  projections  in January.  In the developing economies, the Washington-based lender
expects consumer prices to average 6 percent this year. Roubini
said inflation in some emerging economies “where monetary
policy is behind the curve” risks going “out of control, in
some cases to double digits,” unless central banks start
raising interest rates soon or use exchange rates to stabilize
prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  