-- 
Salander on ‘Mission From God’ as Artist Estates Kept in Dark

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-03-08T17:48:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/salander-on-mission-from-god-as-artist-estates-kept-in-dark.html
A witness at the trial of Leigh Morse, former director of Salander-O’Reilly Galleries, yesterday
described ex-art dealer Lawrence B. Salander as an “incredibly
persuasive” salesman, “very original in his thinking.”  Andrew Kelly, a former Salander assistant, also said his
boss was on a “mission from God to enlighten the world” about
Renaissance art, on which he spent tens of millions of dollars.  Morse, 54, has pleaded not guilty to one count each of
fraud and grand larceny. She’s accused of failing to inform
heirs of U.S. artists that the gallery had sold their consigned
work. The point was to avoid the heirs’ demanding payment. She’s
also accused of pocketing money owed to the actor  Robert De Niro , whose father’s estate was represented by the gallery.  Morse’s lawyer,  Andrew Lankler , declined to comment
yesterday.  Salander avoided trial by pleading guilty to 30 counts of
fraud and grand larceny a year ago. But his business practices
and lifestyle are under scrutiny in this trial.  Kelly also pleaded guilty to charges of fraud and grand
larceny, and testified yesterday that as part of a deal with the  Manhattan  District Attorney’s office he may avoid prison if he
cooperates fully.  Salander is serving 6 to 18 years in prison, now at the
Mid-State Correctional Facility, in Marcy,  New York . He and his
gallery filed for  bankruptcy protection  in 2007.  Kelly described Salander as an ingenious salesman, a
hypocrite and a con man. Salander privately joked that he was
following the template of the Mel Brooks movie and musical “The
Producers,” Kelly said.  “‘How many halves in a whole?’” Kelly testified that
Salander said as he sold more than 100 percent interest in the
same work of art.  Walking the Dog  Kelly said he worked on and off with Salander for three
decades, beginning in the late 1970s, when Salander was
primarily in the antique business.  After leaving Salander’s employ in the 1980s, he rejoined
in about 1994. He earned $45,000 a year and his responsibilities
included walking Salander’s dog and writing letters, e-mails and
checks for the dealer.  His duties increasingly involved cooking the books, Kelly
said, and his pay later swelled to $300,000, plus bonus.  The assistant testified that he created fraudulent invoices
that indicated that consignors were paid when works were sold.
In fact, Salander wanted consignors kept in the dark, Kelly
said, so they wouldn’t demand payment.  “He was angry that anyone would discover that a sale had
been made,” Kelly said, adding that he and Morse frequently
discussed how uncomfortable they were keeping information from
consignors.  Loading a Plane  Salander would fly to  Italy  by private plane to stock up on
Renaissance art, Kelly testified.  “It increased to the point of planeloads stuffed with
objects,” Kelly said. “One could not even walk up and down the
aisle of the plane.”  The criminal case is People v. Morse, 09-03581, New York
State Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 