-- 
Sasol to Pay $1.08 Billion for 50% of Canada's Cypress A Shale Gas Project

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-03-08T12:39:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/sasol-to-pay-1-08-billion-for-50-of-canada-s-cypress-a-shale-gas-project.html
  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the largest producer of
motor fuels made from coal and gas, agreed to pay C$1.05 billion
($1.08 billion) for a stake in the Cypress A project in Canada,
its second shale gas acquisition in less than three months.  The deal is in line with Sasol’s plan of accelerating
growth within its upstream resource base “by way of the
acquisition of high quality natural gas assets,” the company,
based in Johannesburg, said in a statement today.  The purchase of 50 percent of Cypress A from Calgary-based  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  should be completed in the third quarter,
Sasol said. The company last week completed the C$1.05 billion
acquisition of 50 percent of Talisman’s Farrell Creek operation.
Both projects are in the Montney shale basin, in western  Alberta 
and north-eastern British Columbia.  Chief Executive Officer Pat Davies is giving Sasol a
foothold in the North American shale gas market as he bets that
gas-based projects will be more profitable than the company’s
traditional business of producing motor fuels from coal. In
2007, he oversaw the start-up of the world’s largest gas-to-
fuels plant in  Qatar .  “It’s positive that they’re acting so quickly on their
strategy,” Abri du Plessis, chief investment officer at  Cape
Town  based Gryphon Asset Management, said by phone from the city
today. “One could probably expect further announcements in the
next year or so.”  Increased Gas Reserves  Sasol, which uses proprietary Fischer-Tropsch technology to
convert gas into motor fuels, hopes to prove the feasibility of
a gas-to-fuels plant processing the equivalent of 48,000 barrels
a day in  Canada  in the second half of next year, the company
said yesterday. Sasol will have about 10.4 trillion cubic feet
of reserves in the Montney basin after the two transactions.  The combination of the Cypress A acquisition with the
Farrell Creek project will allow “scalability” of a gas-to-
fuels plant, Sasol said today. Cypress A is producing at a rate
of 18 million standard cubic feet a day, while Farrell Creek
produces 50 to 60 million standard cubic feet a day.  Shares in Sasol fell 3.51 rand, or 0.9 percent, to 383.48
rand as of 2:15 p.m. in Johannesburg, giving the company a value
of 246 billion rand ($35.6 billion).  Sasol,  South Africa ’s largest company by sales and market
value, is making “good progress” in its search for a
replacement for Davies who “reaches the normal  retirement age ”
for Sasol executives in March, the company said in a separate
statement. Sasol plans to make a further announcement by the end
of June, it said. Davies had earlier agreed to stay on for as
long as a year after his retirement date.  The CEO, who took over from Pieter Cox in 2005, has been
expanding Sasol’s international business, looking for
opportunities to build plants in gas and coal rich countries
including  China ,  India  and Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  