-- 
Japan Nominates Shirai to BOJ Board, Replacing Biggest Dissenter

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-03-08T15:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/sayuri-shirai-nominated-to-boj-board-replacing-suda-2-.html
Japan’s government nominated Sayuri Shirai, an economics professor, to the Bank of Japan’s policy
board, upholding a practice of replacing the sole female board
member with another woman.  The decision was made at a committee meeting of lawmakers
from both chambers of the Diet, according to a statement
released yesterday in Tokyo. If approved by a full parliament,
Shirai, a 48-year-old economist who has worked at the  International Monetary Fund  and published work on  Europe ’s debt
woes, would succeed  Miyako Suda , who is completing her second
five-year term on March 31.  The loss of Suda, the bank’s biggest opponent of monetary
easing, may cause policy discussions to focus more on providing
more stimulus to support growth in the world’s third-largest
economy. Shirai’s background may enrich BOJ discussions about
grappling with debt given her expertise on Europe’s fiscal
crisis.  “It would’ve given a negative impression to not have any
female members on the board,” said  Chotaro Morita , chief
strategist at Barclays Capital Japan Ltd. in Tokyo. “We don’t
know much about her views on monetary policy, so all we can say
for now is Suda’s departure may make the board less hawkish.”  The BOJ has pledged to keep the benchmark interest rate
between zero percent and 0.1 percent until the board can expect
consumer prices to become stable, which is defined by the board
at a median forecast of about 1 percent. Suda, who will attend
her final board meeting next week, said in 2006 that her
understanding of stable prices is at a “pretty low” range
above zero.  ‘Distinct Role’  “Suda has played a distinct role on the BOJ board, where
most members hardly indicate whether they are hawkish or
dovish,” Morita at Barclays said. She dissented at least four
times from decisions since joining the bank in 2001, when she
replaced Eiko Shinozuka, the bank’s first female board member.  Suda has been the only woman on the board for her entire
tenure. By comparison, half of the  Federal Reserve ’s current six
board members are women, including Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen .
The  European Central Bank ’s governing council has one woman
among its 23 members, while there are none on the nine-man Bank
of England Monetary Policy Committee.  Suda has a history of voting against added stimulus. She
opposed an expansion of quantitative easing twice under former
Governor Toshihiko Fukui and dissented from a decision to buy
asset-backed securities in April 2003.  IMF Economist  Shirai, who currently teaches at a Keio University campus
outside of Tokyo, earned her doctorate in economics from  Columbia University  in 1993, where she studied international
trade, and has published books on the IMF and  Asia ’s financial
crisis. Her most recent publications include analysis on
Europe’s sovereign debt.  “She hasn’t said much about Japan’s monetary policy, so
it’s unclear how she’ll influence the policy board,” said  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas in Tokyo. “Given Europe may
fall into further turmoil with its sovereign debt problems, and
as someone who’s very knowledgeable about the issue, she would
be a great asset to the central bank.”  When the BOJ unveiled a 5 trillion yen asset-buying fund
last year, Suda opposed using its money to purchase  government
bonds , saying the step could cause ”overheating” and
“bubbles” in bond markets.  ‘Not to Rush’  “It’s hard to imagine anyone would be more hawkish than
Suda,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu
Corp. in Tokyo. “Looking at what Shirakawa and his deputies are
saying, their stance is not to rush a rate increase. If their
opinion becomes more influential, tightening would become very
unlikely.”    Oil prices  approaching their 2008 peak and elevated
commodity costs are spurring inflation worldwide, threatening
the global expansion and casting a shadow on a recovery in Japan,
where gross domestic product contracted in the fourth quarter.
Overseas shipments and factory output grew less than expected in
January and companies increased  capital spending  at a slower
pace in the fourth quarter, government reports showed.  “The BOJ may have difficulty judging whether rising oil
prices will slow global growth and threaten to drive Japan’s
economy back into a slump,” said  Naomi Hasegawa , a senior
fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley
Securities Co. in Tokyo. “If commodity costs keep surging, the
bank may have to decide whether additional policy action is
necessary.”  Falling Prices  Core consumer prices, which exclude fresh food and are the
bank’s preferred gauge of inflation, fell 0.2 percent in January,
the slowest drop since 2009.  Core prices, which have slid for 23 consecutive months,
will probably resume rising as early as April, said  Yoshiki Shinke , a senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute
in Tokyo. The BOJ in January raised its forecasts for consumer
prices for the year starting April 1 to 0.3 percent from its
previous estimate of 0.1 percent, citing costlier commodities.  Central bank board members are appointed by the Cabinet and
their nominations must be approved by the Upper and Lower houses
of parliament since the new Bank of Japan Law was enacted in
1998. Of the nine members, two are career central bankers, four
are former corporate executives and three are academics.  Tadao Noda, a BOJ board member, last week said sustained
gains of commodity prices may erode corporate profits and hurt
incomes and jobs. His term expires in June and, like Suda, he
advocated raising interest rates in 2007 and opposed injecting
more stimulus in March 2010.  BOJ policy makers, who last month raised their assessment
of the economy for the first time in nine months, indicated they
remain cautious about the economic outlook. Deputy Governor
Hirohide Yamaguchi told lawmakers this week that the BOJ
“stands ready to take appropriate policy action should the
outlook of the economy and prices worsen.”  The bank has offered to lend to commercial lenders through
a 30 trillion-yen low-rate credit program and buy assets with a
5 trillion yen fund. BOJ board members have said they are ready
to expand the asset-buying fund if more stimulus is needed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  