-- 
Scene Last Night: Alan Patricof, Lewis Cullman, Cavett, Balaban, Brickman

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-03-08T16:21:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/scene-last-night-alan-patricof-lewis-cullman-cavett-balaban-brickman.html
A cheerful young lady sitting under
a “Box Office Open” sign last night offered $1,000 seats to
see Steve Martin play the banjo July 2.  It was part of an awards gala by Guild Hall, an East
Hampton art and performance center for  Long Island ’s beach and
estate crowd.  On stage at Cipriani 42nd Street, actor Bob Balaban lightly
roasted Dick Cavett, writer Marshall Brickman, artist Elizabeth
Peyton, and philanthropist Lewis Cullman, all of whom received
Guild Hall Academy of the Arts Lifetime Achievement Awards.  Known for her portraits of Kurt Cobain and Marie
Antoinette, among others, Peyton was asked if she’s interested
in painting financial executives.  “It’s not that I don’t like money, I’m not against it --
but it hasn’t come up,” she said. She conceded that she was
“pretty excited about meeting Alec Baldwin, so maybe that’s in
the cards.”  The question of whether the Hamptons, with its confluence
of old and new money in weekend mode, has the clout to move
markets elicited several views.  “Only the real-estate market,” said Alan J. Patricof,
managing director of Greycroft Partners LLC.  Morris Mark, president and founder of Mark Asset Management
Corp., offered another view: “Absolutely, deals are being made
out there. You have politicians seeking support, corporate
leaders -- a lot of things happen because of the relationships
that form, or meetings that take place, or even just coming back
to our offices in New York more relaxed and creative.”  ‘All Business’  Emil W. Henry Jr., head of Tiger Infrastructure Partners LP
and a former assistant secretary of the  U.S. Treasury , said he
spends time in the Hamptons with Tiger Management LLC
billionaire Julian H. Robertson Jr., with whom he started his
private equity firm.  “It’s all business,” Henry said.  Guild Hall is doing its part to put finance and the economy
on the East End agenda. On April 22 it will host a panel
featuring  Peter Orszag , vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and President Barack Obama’s first budget
director.  And just what does Patricof do in the Hamptons, since he’s
not making deals?  “We’ve been skating all winter with our grandchildren who
live next door,” he said. The rink is at Buckskill Winter Club.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
art and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 