-- 
Scottish & Southern Delays Natural-Gas Plant, Waits for New Laws

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-03-08T14:17:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/scottish-southern-delays-natural-gas-plant-waits-for-new-laws.html
  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc (SSE) , the
U.K.’s second-biggest power producer, won’t decide until next
year at the earliest on whether to build another gas-fueled
station in South Wales, depending on new regulations.  The power station at Abernedd, originally planned to have
two units with total capacity of 870 megawatts, was scaled back
to 450 megawatts after SSE reduced the amount of so-called
Transmission Entry Capacity, it said today in a statement to the
regulatory news service.  “The market for smaller gas-fired generation has become
increasingly difficult,” Alistair Phillips-Davies, generation
and supply director of SSE, said in the statement. “The medium-
term outlook is also challenging, which is why we have decided
to scale back the Abernedd development to one unit and to defer
the project by at least two years compared with the original
timetable.” This gives time to assess new laws from the U.K.
government’s so-called electricity market reform, he said.  Scottish & Southern plans to shut its 123-megawatt, gas-
fueled plant in Fife, 30 miles from Edinburgh, at the end of
March. Keeping it open would be “loss making” this year, the
company said last month. Rising gas prices, the European Union
requirement to purchase all emissions permits, and high charges
to transport the power make it “increasingly challenging” to
operate small gas-fired generation, Scottish & Southern said.  The British government is seeking investor financing to
replace a third of its fossil-fuel and nuclear power stations
over the next decade with cleaner alternatives. It has asked for
comments from power suppliers and consumers until March 10 on
planned changes to the market. These may include imposing a
minimum carbon price, fixed tariffs for wind and nuclear
supplies and paying utilities to have generation capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  