-- 
Security-Breach Costs Climb 7% to $7.2 Million per Incident

-- B y   K e l l y   R i d d e l l
-- 
2011-03-08T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/security-breach-costs-climb-7-to-7-2-million-per-incident.html
The cost to businesses of exposing
data such as Social Security and credit-card numbers climbed 7
percent last year to an average of $7.2 million per incident,
according to a study of companies that experienced breaches.  The most expensive incident cost an unidentified company
$35.3 million, an increase of 15 percent from the costliest
breach a year earlier, according to a report released today by
 Ponemon Institute LLC , an information security research group.
The name of the company was withheld because of the sensitivity
of the breach. The report was sponsored by  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , the
world’s largest maker of security software.  “One of the factors that’s raising the costs is the
detection, forensics and upfront work to get to the bottom of
the issue,” said Larry Ponemon, president of the institute, in
an interview from the group’s headquarters in Traverse City,  Michigan . “As more malicious attacks come online, organizations
are paying more attention and are investing in their networks.”  About 85 percent of all U.S. companies have experienced one
or more data breaches, Ponemon said, and the figure may be
larger because many don’t have the ability to detect when
information has been exposed. The potential expense of losing
customers to a security breach is prompting U.S. companies to
spend more on bolstering their systems, he said.  Costs of data breaches are increasing as more states pass
laws requiring companies to disclose whenever customers’
personal information is exposed, Ponemon said. So far, 46 U.S.
states have passed such measures, with varying definitions of a
breach, deadlines for notifying customers and punishments for
failing to comply.  Patchwork of Laws  “The patchwork state laws drive up significantly the cost
of incident response for national corporations because the
reporting requirements and data sets are different for each
state,” said Eric Friedberg, a co-president at  Stroz Friedberg
LLC , which does forensic analysis of data breaches. “When you
have to report to several state attorneys generals on the
forensics side, it becomes way more complex than if there were
one standard.”  The U.S. government has yet to adopt guidelines for
companies to follow in the event data is exposed. The  House of
Representatives  passed a bill in 2009 that would set a unified
standard for responding to breaches and require consumer
notification. A Senate version of the legislation was introduced
in 2009 but has yet to advance.  Most Not Publicized  Most corporate data breaches are not publicized to avoid
alarming customers. Ponemon based its study, titled “2010 U.S.
Cost of a Data Breach,” on interviews with executives from 51
U.S. companies that publicly acknowledged a breach of sensitive
customer data last year and were willing to talk about it. The
report did not name the companies studied.  The study covered U.S. companies from 15 industry sectors,
including retail, health care and financial services. In
tallying data breach costs, the group looked at factors
including lost business, legal fees, customer disclosure and
remediation expenses such as technology and training.  Malicious attacks increased 7 percentage points in 2010
from the previous year, the study found, with the costs of such
attacks jumping 48 percent, to an average of $318 per
compromised record. Hostile breaches on average cost more than
incidents blamed on negligence, such as lost laptops or computer
system breakdowns, the report said.  The most recent high-profile data breach was the hacking of
a  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  website last month. The second-largest
U.S. exchange operator by market value said the breach did not
impact its trading systems and didn’t expose any customer data.
The  Federal Bureau of Investigation , Secret Service, and U.S.
lawmakers are investigating the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Riddell in Washington at 
 kriddell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  