-- 
Serb Prime Minister’s Party Proposes Law Limiting Public Comment

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-03-08T16:17:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/serb-prime-minister-s-party-proposes-law-limiting-public-comment.html
Serbian Prime Minister  Mirko
Cvetkovic ’s  Democratic Party  proposed a law obliging all
employees of ministries and agencies to publically support
government decisions and acts and banning officials from making
unattributed comments in the media.  The draft bill, which needs parliamentary approval, doesn’t
specify any punishment for violation of the proposed code. It
would be the first of its kind in the nation and strengthen the
government’s control of information to the public. Cabinet
ministers, for instance, would have to support all decisions
publicly even if they vote against or abstain from a proposal.  The ruling coalition, dominated by the Democratic Party of
President  Boris Tadic , is facing growing public discontent and
opposition calls for early elections. It is trying to last until
Oct. 12, when European Enlargement Commissioner Stefan Fule may
deliver the EU’s opinion whether Serbia is fit to become a
candidate to join the bloc.  Cvetkovic wants Parliament to adopt new rules urgently as
failing to do so could be “damaging,” according to the draft.
New rules are accompanying the shuffle of the government, one
year before general elections are due in the first half of 2012.  The biggest opposition party, the Serbian Progressive
Party, said yesterday it would give up street protests called
for April 16 if Tadic’s Democrats agree to call elections by
mid-December. Since the 2000 fall of  Slobodan Milosevic , not a
single government has lasted full term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in London at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net 
NI BALKANS
NI BUSINESS
NI ECO
NI EEU
NI EM
NI EUROPE
NI FEAS
NI FINNEWS
NI FRX
NI GEN
NI GOV
NI MARKETS
NI POL
NI SERBIA 