-- 
Shirakawa Says Shouldn’t Focus Too Much on Immediate Price Moves

-- B y   J e f f r e y   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-08T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/shirakawa-says-shouldn-t-focus-too-much-on-immediate-prices-1-.html
  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said central banks shouldn’t focus too closely on
near-term inflation developments.  “While  price stability  is important, paying too much
attention to the near-term inflation outlook could impair the
stability of the financial system,” Shirakawa said in a speech
in  Frankfurt  yesterday. “Monetary policy has a more important
role to play, namely ensuring economic and financial stability
in the medium to long term.”  Surging oil and commodity prices prompted the  European
Central Bank  to say last week that it may raise its benchmark
interest rate from a record low of 1 percent in April to curb
inflation pressures in the 17-natio euro region. By contrast,
Japan’s central bank is battling deflation and has pledged to
keep its key interest rate between zero percent and 0.1 percent
until it can expect stable price gains. The bank’s board next
meets March 14-15.  Twelve of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last
month said the BOJ will probably raise rates in 2013 at the
earliest. Two said borrowing costs will increase in 2012 and one
said the bank will refrain from any increase until 2014.  ‘Bad’ Debt  Shirakawa said the “Japanese debt situation is bad,” and
the world’s third-largest economy needs “both accommodative
monetary policies and structural policies.”  He also suggested central banks may have to take a more
active role in defusing asset-price bubbles before they burst.  “The orthodox view prior to the recent global financial
crisis was that  monetary policy  should not respond to a bubble
and that any resulting problems could be resolved if central
banks took aggressive policy measures after the bubble had
burst,” he said. “However, we are now entering the fifth year
since the bursting of the housing bubble in the U.S. and real
GDP has hardly increased in the meantime.”  Japan’s economy will probably expand 1.47 percent in the
year starting April 1, according to a survey by the government-
affiliated Economic Planning Association released on Feb. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  