-- 
Sinopec ’Paying Attention’ to Proposed Canada West Pipeline

-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 
2011-03-08T16:35:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/sinopec-paying-attention-to-proposed-canada-west-pipeline-1-.html
  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (SNP) ,
the country’s biggest refiner, is “paying attention” to a
possible pipeline from the Canadian  oil sands  to North America’s
West Coast as existing conduits are insufficient, said Hongbin
Hou, Sinopec’s vice president of exploration and planning.  “Where we go depends upon the market, depends upon how
much we can earn from the market so we are paying attention to
another pipeline to the western coast,” Hou said at the IHS
Cambridge Energy Research Associates conference in Houston.
“With that pipeline maybe the product can find a diversified
market.”  Sinopec is part of a group investing more than $100 million
in  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s proposed $5.5 billion pipeline to  Canada ’s
west coast, Enbridge said Jan. 21. Projects in  Alberta  have
attracted more than $200 billion in investments and are forecast
to double Canada’s oil exports to about 3 million barrels a day
in the next decade, according to Canada’s  National Energy Board.   Canadian crude will also be moving to the U.S. Gulf Coast
and "competing with the heavy crudes from Latin America," said
Richard Grissom, vice president of market analysis for  Valero
Energy Corp. (VLO)  Gulf Coast refiners would embrace the chance to get
Canadian heavy crude, he said. He said California may bar
Canadian crude because of its low-carbon fuel standard.  Pipelines to Gulf  “As a Midwest refiner, we already have a lot of capacity
to bring in heavy crude from Canada,” said Mike Palmer, a
senior vice president with Marathon Petroleum Corp. He said  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone pipeline that now connects Alberta
to Cushing, Oklahoma, provided "a huge amount of capacity
increase that from Marathon’s point of view was a wonderful
thing."  TransCanada is expanding its pipeline system to the U.S.
Gulf Coast to accommodate an expected increase in demand for
bitumen from the northern Alberta oil sands. An expansion to the
Gulf Coast, the third phase of TransCanada’s project, known as
Keystone XL, may be operational by early 2013 if U.S. regulators
approve. The XL extension will run from Cushing to Nederland,
Texas, linking Gulf refineries to Canada’s oil sands.  TransCanada started deliveries to the Cushing hub Feb. 8 in
the second phase of its Keystone pipeline project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 