-- 
Sinopec Maoming Halts Gasoline Exports as Supply Tightens

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-08T10:23:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/sinopec-maoming-halts-gasoline-exports-as-supply-tightens-1-.html
  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) ’s
biggest refinery in  Guangdong province  halted gasoline exports
because of tight supply on the domestic market.  “We haven’t been instructed to export gasoline,” Yu Xizhi,
president of the 270,000 barrel-a-day Maoming plant, told
reporters in Beijing today. “Domestic gasoline supplies are a
bit tight. We are taking measures to boost output of the fuel.”  Most Chinese refiners are currently losing money from
processing crude into gasoline and diesel on surging crude costs,
according to Yu. The Maoming plant isn’t facing losses because
of its petrochemical business, Yu said, without elaborating.  “Chinese refineries may have been increasing output of
chemicals while cutting production of gasoline to gain more
profit,” Bai Xuesong, a senior engineer at state-backed China
International Chemical Consulting Corp., said by telephone in
Beijing today.  The government caps fuel prices to limit their impact on
inflation. Crude in  New York  settled at $105.44 a barrel
yesterday, the highest since Sept. 26, 2008.  Rival China National Petroleum Corp. isn’t making any
refining profit as the breakeven crude prices for its plants are
$90 a barrel,  Jiang Jiemin , president of CNPC, the nation’s
largest oil company, said on March 5.  Maoming’s crude supply this month costs $97 to $98 a barrel,
according to Yu.  The plant plans to process 14.5 million tons of crude this
year, he said. The refinery will shut at least one crude
distillation unit in the second half for maintenance, Yu said,
without giving details.  --Chua Baizhen, Winnie Zhu. Editors: Ryan Woo,  Jane Lee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 