-- 
Smith Electric Vehicles Completes $58 Million Private Placement

-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 
2011-03-08T03:09:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/smith-electric-vehicles-gets-58-million-from-private-placement-of-shares.html
Smith Electric Vehicles U.S. Corp. ,
a U.S. manufacturer of plug-in battery powered electric trucks,
sold $58 million of shares privately to unidentified investors.  The financing includes $39 million in cash received from
the sale of Series B convertible preferred stock, the Kansas
City, Missouri-based company said today in a statement.
Additionally, bridge notes and related warrants were converted
into $19 million of Series B preferred shares.  Of the proceeds, $5 million will be used to prepay monthly
installments in connection with the company’s purchase of the
U.K.-based zero emission vehicles unit of  Tanfield Group Plc (TAN) ,
known as Smith Electric Vehicles. Tanfield, the world’s largest
maker of aerial work platforms, holds a 49 percent stake in the
U.S-based company.  The $15 million deal,  announced  Dec. 23, became effective
Jan. 1 and payments will be made in installments for 20 months.
The prepayment eliminates the need to pay additional
installments for about seven months, Smith Electric said.  Remaining net proceeds will be used for working capital as
the company expands manufacturing.  Newtons  Sales of the company’s Newton model trucks are expected to
reach 1,000 this year, five times more than last year, the
company said in January. Smith Electric’s Kansas City plant
assembles about 40 trucks per month, chief executive officer
Bryan Hansel said in December when the acquisition was
announced. Hansel was not available for comment today.  The Newton trucks use cabs and chassis made by Letňany,
Czech Republic-based  Avia Ashok Leyland Motors S.R.O.  The
batteries are provided by  Valence Technology Inc. (VLNC) , and  Enova
Systems Inc. (ENA)  supplies the electric drive systems. The vehicles
sell for between about $80,000 and $90,000 after deducting a
federal tax credit of as much as $7,500 and additional rebates
from state governments of as much as $5,000, according to
Hansel.  Coca-Cola Co., Frito-Lay Foods Ltd., AT&T Inc., Staples
Inc., Pacific Gas & Electric Co., and Kansas City Power & Light
Co., have purchased Smith vehicles, Tanfield says on its
website.  The vehicles have a top speed of 55 miles per hour, a range
of more than 100 miles, and a payload of more than 16,000
pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  