-- 
South Sudan Army Claims Capture of Rebel Headquarters in Jonglei State

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-03-08T16:18:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/south-sudan-army-claims-capture-of-rebel-headquarters-in-jonglei-state.html
Southern Sudan ’s army captured the
headquarters of a rebel group in Jonglei state, leaving an
unknown number of casualties, army spokesman Philip Aguer said.  The clash with forces loyal to renegade general George
Athor took place yesterday in Kurwuai village, Aguer said today
by phone from Juba, the capital of  Southern Sudan . Athor, a
former chief of staff in Southern  Sudan ’s army, took up arms
against the government after losing a state election in April.  “Athor has been breaking the cease-fire, and he has been
expanding his territories,” Aguer said. “We will get the
numbers of the casualties by tomorrow.”  Fighting on Feb. 9-10 between the army and Athor’s rebels
killed 197 people in Jonglei, according to Southern Sudan’s
ruling party. The government of oil-rich Southern Sudan, which
is due to become independent in July, signed a cease-fire
agreement with Athor’s forces on Jan. 5.  Paris-based  Total SA (FP) , which owns 32.5 percent of a 118,000
square-kilometer (46,000 square-mile) concession in Jonglei and
Lakes states, hasn’t started exploration due in part to security
conditions in the region.  At independence, Southern Sudan will assume control of
about three-quarters of Sudan’s current oil production of
490,000 barrels a day, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp. Sudan had five billion barrels of proven oil
reserves as of January 2010, according to the  U.S. Energy
Information Administration .  Almost 99 percent of Southern Sudanese voters chose
independence in a January referendum that was the centerpiece of
a peace agreement ending a two-decade civil war with the north.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at  barden@bloomberg.net . 