-- 
South Africa Seeks to Reduce Sulfur, Benzene Levels in Fuel

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-03-08T14:25:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/south-africa-seeks-to-reduce-sulfur-benzene-levels-in-fuel-minister-says.html
  South Africa ’s government said it
will slash allowable levels of sulfur and benzene in fuel in a
bid to improve public health and preserve the environment.  Sulfur levels should be cut to 10 parts per million from a
maximum of 500 parts currently, while the benzene content should
be reduced to 1 percent from 5 percent, according to draft fuel
specifications released in Cape Town today.  The government wants cleaner “fuels to be available as
soon as 2013,” Energy Minister Dipuo Peters said in a copy of a
speech. “We expect that the refineries will take turns in
upgrading to be able to produce cleaner fuels and that the last
refinery conversion should be completed by 2017.”  South Africa has six refineries with the capacity to
process 692,000 barrels of oil a day, according to the South
African Petroleum Industry Association. Petroliam Nasional
Bhd.’s Engen Ltd. unit,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  are
among the companies that operate plants.  The oil industry estimates it will cost about $3.1 billion
for all refineries to comply with Euro 4 fuel standards, or $3.7
billion to meet Euro 5 standards, South Africa’s Energy
Department said in a presentation. Euro 4 standard gasoline
contains no more than 50 parts per million of sulfur, while Euro
5 has no more than 10 parts.  “Questions have been raised about the cost,” Peters said.
“We believe that the cost recovery will be the subject of
discussion once a thorough determination of the costs and
benefit for each refinery has been done.”  Possible options include differentiated taxes on fuels,
aimed at encouraging consumers to choose cleaner options, she
said. Companies have 60 days to comment on the draft fuel
specifications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  