-- 
South American Soybean Exports Drop on Rainfall, Oil World Says

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 
2011-03-08T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/south-american-soybean-exports-drop-on-rainfall-oil-world-says.html
South American soybean shipments in
February were less than expected and will remain lower than
normal in March as rain delays harvests and transportation to
ports, Oil World said in a report.    Brazil ’s exports fell 66 percent from the same month a year
earlier to 225,000 metric tons as rainfall delayed collection
and muddied roads, making transportation difficult, Oil World
said. Software problems that slowed unloading at the port of
Paranagua resulted in a 25-kilometer (16 mile) line of trucks
on March 1, the company said today.  “South American soybean exports turned out sharply smaller
than expected and they will remain at a depressed level also in
March, at least in the first half,” Oil World said. “This is
due primarily to the delays in harvesting and inland
transportation in Brazil and  Paraguay .”  Brazilian soybean processing into oil and meal was below
expectations in February, which caused a decline in soymeal
exports to 570,000 tons, “significantly” less than expected by
the forecaster, Oil World said. Soy-oil exports of 130,000 tons
exceeded expectations, the company said.  Brazil’s soybean harvest is facing “severe delays” and
dry weather in  Argentina  may be damaging plants, cutting crop
prospects in the countries, Oil World said.  Soybean futures have gained 7 percent since Feb. 23 after
touching a two-month low because of bad weather in  South
America . Decreased production in Brazil and Argentina, the
second- and third-largest exporters of soybeans, may boost
demand for U.S. inventories, according to today’s report.  ‘Further Tightening’  “The problems in South America may shift some of the new
demand to U.S. origin, further tightening the U.S. soybean
balance,” Oil World said. “Current  weather forecasts  indicate
relief neither for the wet areas of Brazil and Paraguay nor for
the dry areas of Argentina.”  Heavy rain is expected in Brazil’s Mato Grosso and several
other states in the next two weeks, which could further delay
collection and result in mature pods opening in fields, Oil
World said. Dry weather in Argentina may hurt development of
soybeans that were planted later in parts of Cordoba, La Pampa
and  Buenos Aires , the company said.  A strike by Argentine dockworkers on March 4 and
uncertainty about the dissolution of the agricultural exports
agency, known as Oncca, also are of concern to buyers, Oil World
said.  “Dock workers at Terminal 6 are demanding a doubling of
their wages,” Oil World said. “There is the risk that this
conflict also spills over to the other terminals and that
exports are interrupted or delayed unless the conflict is solved
soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net . 