-- 
South African Bully Phobia Yields No Stance on Ivory Coast Political Chaos

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-03-09T16:12:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/south-africa-bully-phobia-yields-no-stance-on-ivory-coast-chaos.html
As  Ivory Coast  teeters on the brink
of civil war,  South Africa  is defying international opinion by
refusing to take sides in a dispute over the outcome of a
democratic vote.  While the  United Nations , African Union and U.S. recognize  Alassane Ouattara  as the winner of the Nov. 28 election, South
Africa said the result was “inconclusive” and stepped back
from condemning incumbent leader  Laurent Gbagbo , who is spurning
calls for him to cede power.  Since emerging from apartheid in 1994, the African National
Congress-led government has held off using its reputation as a
champion of African rights and its weight as sub-Saharan
Africa’s biggest economy to become a champion of democracy. It
has also stepped back from condemning leaders such as  Zimbabwe ’s
Robert Mugabe, who stand accused of human rights abuses.  “South Africa has lost some of the moral high ground it
acquired in 1994 with its peaceful transition,” Tom Wheeler, a
South African diplomat from 1961-2003 who now works as an
analyst at the independent South African  Institute  for
International Affairs, said in an interview from Johannesburg.
“It’s not helping democracy.”  The ANC mobilized international support for sanctions that
hastened the demise of apartheid. The negotiated settlement
which saw the National Party that created apartheid join the
government is a model that South Africa has backed following
contested elections in Zimbabwe and  Kenya .  Not So Simple  South African President Jacob Zuma is one of five African
heads of state appointed on Jan. 29 by the  African Union  to
mediate in Ivory Coast. While the 53-nation grouping demanded
that Gbagbo relinquish power, South Africa remained on the
sidelines.  “We hold no brief for any faction in Ivory Coast,”
International Relations Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane told
reporters in  Cape Town  on Feb. 17. “I wish diplomacy was as
simple” as choosing the winner of an election.  At least 365 people have been killed in the world’s top
cocoa-producing nation since the elections, according to the UN.
The past few days have been marked by violent clashes between
forces backing the rival leaders.  Members of the African Union’s mediation panel met to
discuss the Ivory Coast crisis in  Ethiopia ’s capital,  Addis
Ababa , today and are due to conclude their talks tomorrow.  No Bully  South  Africa  doesn’t “want to be seen as a bully on the
continent,” said Miles Tendi, an analyst at Control Risks, a
London-based firm that advises companies on security and
political dangers. “Western states are prone to shouting from
rooftops, or threatening intervention. South Africa, on the
other hand, believes the resolution of crises or conflicts is
more likely to be achieved through non-coercive diplomacy.”  South Africa says Mugabe’s 2009 agreement to form a unity
government with the former opposition is a victory for its so-
called quiet diplomacy, ending a decade of political and
economic crisis. Others point to the continued presence of
Mugabe. The quiet diplomacy term was used by former President
Thabo Mbeki’s government to refer to their efforts in Zimbabwe.  “What we always need to bear in mind is Zimbabwean
nationals are their own liberators,” South Africa’s Deputy
President Kgalema Motlanthe told lawmakers on March 3. “The
role we have to play in South Africa is a supporting role, to
nudge them, to encourage them to move in the direction of a full
democracy.”  Early Efforts  South Africa, which accounts for more than 70 percent of
southern Africa’s gross domestic product, is home to companies
such as Standard Bank Group Ltd.,  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN)  and  Shoprite
Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , which have expanded throughout the continent.
About 14 percent of South Africa’s exports go to other African
countries, while the continent supplies 6.8 percent of its
imports, government data shows.  “There is always a trade-off between commercial interests
and injunctions driven by human rights or social morality,”
Iraj Abedian, chief executive officer of Pan-African Investment
and Research Services, a Johannesburg-based advisory service,
said in a March 8 telephone interview. “South Africa has not
been able to speak out as clearly” as it would like to.  Moreover, the ANC government’s early efforts to impose its
views on other African countries flopped.  In 1995, then-President  Nelson Mandela  unsuccessfully tried
to persuade  Nigeria ’s government not to hang writer and
environmental activist Ken Saro-Wiwa. Mandela then failed to win
backing from most other African leaders to have the West African
nation suspended from the Commonwealth, an association of the
U.K. and its former colonies.  Lesotho  In 1998, South Africa sent more than 600 troops into
neighboring Lesotho to quell a mutiny by junior army officers.
More than 60 people were killed, and the government’s handling
of the crisis was widely criticized.  South African diplomats have subsequently helped negotiate
ends to civil wars in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Sudan
and Burundi.  Zuma’s administration has backed pro-democracy uprisings in
Tunisia and  Egypt , and called for an end to violence in  Libya .
“South Africa has openly condemned the loss of life and attacks
on civilians and reported violations of human rights in Libya,’
the Presidency said in an e-mailed statement today.  Back in the  Ivory Coast , the government’s position may be a
pragmatic one, given that Gbagbo is unlikely to cede power
willingly and has strong military backing, said Keith Gotschalk,
a politics lecturer as the University of the Western Cape.  “Their top concern is conflict management or conflict
avoidance,” he said in a March 7 interview from Cape Town.
“Democracy isn’t seen as important as the absence of civil
war.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 