-- 
Styron Said to Plan Public Offering Less Than 9 Months After Bain's Buyout

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-03-09T05:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/styron-said-to-plan-public-offering-less-than-9-months-after-bain-s-buyout.html
Styron Corp. is planning an initial
public offering less than nine months after Bain Capital LLC
bought the company from  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  for $1.63 billion, said
two people with knowledge of the matter.  Banks are being interviewed to handle a share sale, said
the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the
talks are private. Dow Chemical, based in Midland,  Michigan ,
still has a 7.5 percent stake in Styron, the world’s largest
producer of polystyrene.  A Styron IPO would be an unusually quick turnaround for a
leveraged buyout firm such as Bain, which typically holds
investments for three or more years. This week HCA Holdings
Inc., a hospital company that Bain helped take private in 2006,
is offering shares to the public.  Among the biggest private equity-backed companies that have
registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for
an IPO in the past six months are Kinder Morgan Inc., taken
private in 2007; Freescale Semiconductor Inc., from 2006; and
Kosmos Energy Ltd., from 2004.  Styron  is likely to pick underwriters in the next few
weeks, the people said. Any share sale would be subject to
market conditions.  Dow Chemical put Styron up for sale last year to raise cash
following its 2009 acquisition of Rohm and Haas Co. for $15.7
billion. Bain won a bidding contest with TPG Capital over the
Styron buyout, one of the people said.  A spokesman for Bain and a spokeswoman for Styron declined
to comment.  Bain used about $650 million of its own money for the June
2010 purchase of Styron, according to Standard & Poor’s. It
funded the rest from debt arranged by Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC
Holdings Plc, Barclays Plc and Bank of Montreal. Styron
refinanced the debt last month in order to pay its owners a $400
million dividend,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  