-- 
Sumitomo Electric Expects Growth to Slow on Yen

-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 
2011-03-10T04:44:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/sumitomo-electric-expects-growth-to-slow-on-copper-price-yen.html
(Corrects next year sales gain to 10% in fourth paragraph
of story first published yesterday.)    Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. (5802) ,
which supplies electrical wiring to automakers including Toyota
Motor Corp., expects profit growth to slow on rising commodity
prices and the yen’s strength.  “The coming year won’t be good for us,” President
Masayoshi Matsumoto said in an interview in Osaka, where the
company is based. “The yen is still too strong. Profit won’t
keep pace with sales expansion.”  Operating profit may rise less than five percent in the year
starting April, compared with the almost doubling to 100 billion
yen ($1.2 billion) predicted for this year, as the cost of
commodities such as copper increases and Middle East tension
fuels uncertainty, he said. Matsumoto’s target of as much as 105
billion yen next year is less than the 123 billion yen median
estimate by 15 analysts polled by Bloomberg.  Sales, forecast to rise 8.9 percent this year to 2 trillion
yen, may surge by 10 percent next year on expectation the
automotive and electronics businesses will “remain strong,”
Matsumoto said on March 4.  The yen, up about 12 percent against the dollar since
Sumitomo’s fiscal year started, is a main factor behind the
slowing profit growth, Matsumoto, 66, said. The Japanese
currency traded at 82.45 yen per dollar as of 5 p.m. yesterday
in Tokyo.  “It’s also very difficult to spot signs of economic
recovery,” he said, citing political unrest caused by anti-
government protests in  Egypt  and fighting in  Libya . “The world
is full of uncertainty right now.”  Tungsten, Copper  Matsumoto said rising commodity prices also may erode
operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods and
administrative expenses.  The company last month said it will raise the price of
 carbide tools , used for drilling and other precision tasks, by
more than 10 percent in April because the cost of tungsten has
soared more than 70 percent compared with a year earlier.  China 
has an 80 percent worldwide market share of the rare metal,
which is used to make the tools, Sumitomo Electric said.  Matsumoto said he has no plan to lift prices of other
products, including copper wire, one of Sumitomo’s main products.  “I want to do it, but demand would collapse if we did,”
he said.  Copper last month touched a record $10,190 a ton after
surging 30 percent in 2010 as the global economy recovered from
the worst recession since World War II.  Sodium-Ion Battery  Sumitomo Electric’s stock, which on March 4 soared the most
in almost two years after reports the company developed a
cheaper alternative to  lithium-ion batteries  for homes and autos,
has risen 9.7 percent this year to 1,237 yen. The benchmark
Topix index has gained 4.5 percent.  Matsumoto said the company plans to start producing the
batteries, which use sodium-ion, in 2015, targeting revenue of
several trillion yen from the technology.  Sumitomo Electric plans to raise its dividend as much as 2
yen, to 20 yen, for next fiscal year to reflect the company’s
current level of net income, Matsumoto said. The company
forecasts 60 billion yen net income in the year ending this
month, up from 28.7 billion yen a year earlier.  “It’s quite reasonable to think that our shareholders
should ask us for another 2 yen,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in  Osaka  at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson in Osaka at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net . 