-- 
U.K. Must Examine Further Defense Savings This Year, Defense Minister Says

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-03-08T17:03:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/u-k-must-find-further-defense-savings-this-year-luff-says-1-.html
The U.K. government must find
further savings in its military programs beyond cuts announced
in a review last October, Defense Minister Peter Luff said.  Spending reductions so far identified fall short of what’s
needed for the 12 months beginning in April to balance the
ministry’s budget, Luff said in an interview.  “Perhaps it is our fault for failing to make our position
clear. We thought we had told the outside world,” Luff said in  London  today. “The big decisions have been taken; the
fundamental assumptions won’t be changed, but there were
unallocated savings identified which were a matter of public
record and which we now have to find.”  The defense ministry has to reduce its budget by 8 percent
over four years. Plans announced in October included the
ordering of fewer, cheaper planes for one new  aircraft carrier 
and the possible mothballing of a second, which will carry only
helicopters. Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  said last week as many
as 11,000 members of the armed forces face losing their jobs.  “We always said it would take more than two planning
rounds to sort out the full financial consequences of the
inheritance we had,” Luff said, citing the 38 billion-pound
($61 billion) black hole in the  defense budget  left by the
previous Labour administration after it lost power to Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition of Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats last May.  ‘Stack of Options’  “There are a whole stack of options on the table which we
are still looking at and I’m not going to rule in or out any one
of them,” Luff said.  Asked if further cuts would add up to 1 billion pounds
worth of savings or more, Luff replied: “It depends on how you
define it.”  Luff declined to comment when asked if an order for 12  Boeing Co. (BA)  Chinook helicopters might be reduced or whether the
U.K. will slim its 134-strong fleet of Tornado fighter-bombers,
saying discussions have not yet concluded.  “No one expected it to be easy, but some people seemed to
think that one magic wave of the wand back last October in the
Strategic, Defense and Security Review would solve our
problems,” Luff said. “We do have a very challenging
settlement to address but we are determined to make our
contribution on deficit reduction.”  ‘Tangible Evidence’  Luff criticized the Feb. 24 decision by the Pentagon to
award Chicago-based Boeing the $35 billion contract to provide
179 new tanker planes for the U.S.  Air Force  over European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.’s bid. He called for “tangible
evidence of the extent to which the American market” is open.  “People do look sometimes at these big decisions and
wonder just how they are reached,” Luff said. “These decisions
have been discouraging for British defense contractors.”  Luff is hosting a conference of defense and security
business leaders tomorrow to discuss proposed legislation on
commercial links with companies in the industry.  The minister will tell the meeting that “we just need our
American friends to understand they send quite powerful signals
when they take these decisions,” he said. “I do hope that the
U.S. will demonstrate that it really is genuinely open to global
competition itself.”  Luff also identified  Italy  as a key European partner for
future defense equipment sharing programs. His comments follow
the signing of a defense treaty between the U.K. and  France  last
November.  “Just because we have a French relationship of a very deep
and profound nature doesn’t mean we don’t have other very close
relations around  Europe  as well,” Luff said. “I would
highlight Italy as the most important of those. Our interests
and mutual opportunities are most closely aligned.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.ne  