-- 
U.K. House-Price Gauge Rises for Fourth Month as Property Demand Improves

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-03-08T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/u-k-house-price-gauge-rises-for-fourth-month-as-property-demand-improves.html
A U.K. house-price gauge rose for a
fourth month in February as demand increased and transaction
levels improved, the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors
said.  The number of real-estate agents and surveyors saying
prices fell exceeded those seeing gains by 26 percentage points,
down from 31 percentage points in January, the London-based
group said in an e-mailed report today. That matched the median
forecast of 16 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Recent data have shown a mixed picture of the housing
market, with banks curtailing lending and the prospect of the
largest government budget squeeze since World War II casting a
shadow over the economic outlook. Bank of  England  policy makers
will meet this week after three of the nine-member panel voted
to increase the benchmark interest rate last month to tackle
inflation, a move that could put further pressure on the market.  “Despite the more positive picture for some parts of the
U.K., the general mood is still a little flat,” RICS spokesman
Jeremy Leaf said in a statement. “Rather ominously, we have
probably yet to feel the full impact of the public-spending
cuts.”  The majority of respondents reporting that prices fell in
February said the declines were limited to a maximum of 2
percent, RICS said. More than half of all surveyors said prices
were unchanged.  Sales Gauge  A measure of sales per surveyor in the three months through
February rose to 14.8 from 14.6 in the three months through
January. An index of new buyer enquiries, an indicator of
demand, rose to minus 1 in February from minus 7, and a measure
showing the number of new property listings increased to 5 from
minus 3.  Buyer interest continues to be hurt by lenders’ requirement
for large deposits and concerns over the prospect of rising
interest rates, RICS said.  The report showed a “marked divergence” across U.K.
regions, with only  London  posting a gain in values, RICS said.
Newly agreed sales were most positive in the capital,  Scotland ,
and England’s south west, Yorkshire and Humberside regions, it
said.  Wales  and England’s east and East Midlands areas posted
“particularly negative readings.”  “There has been an increase in demand for good quality
housing throughout central London in recent weeks,” James
Perris, a surveyor at De Villiers Chartered Surveyors Ltd. in
the U.K. capital, said in the report. “This is likely to
continue for the next few weeks and may result in an increase in
asking prices and the figures achieved.”  While  Nationwide Building Society  said last week that U.K.
house prices rose in February on a supply shortage, Halifax and
Hometrack Ltd. said values declined.  The  Bank of England ’s nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King , will hold its key rate
at a record low of 0.5 percent on March 10, according to all 61
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Investors have priced in
a 25 basis-point jump in the rate by June, according to forward
rates on the sterling overnight interbank average, or Sonia,
compiled by Tullett Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  