-- 
U.S. Stocks Gain Amid Oil’s Retreat as Bank of America Rallies

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-03-08T21:56:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-as-oil-retreats-boeing-climbs-in-europe.html
U.S. stocks advanced, snapping a
two-day decline for benchmark indexes, as crude oil retreated
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  sparked a rally in financial shares
after saying its home-loan business is in “recovery mode.”  Bank of America jumped 4.7 percent, leading a gauge of
financial shares to the biggest gain among 10 Standard & Poor’s
500 Index industries.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  climbed 4.9 percent
after people with knowledge of the matter told Bloomberg News
that Deutsche Telekom AG held talks to sell its T-Mobile USA
unit to the company. PulteGroup Inc. climbed 8.4 percent after
the homebuilder reported “good traffic and sign-up rates.”  The S&P 500 increased 0.9 percent to 1,321.82 at 4 p.m. in
New York. The benchmark gauge had fallen 1.6 percent over the
previous two trading days. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
advanced 124.35 points, or 1 percent, to 12,214.38. Crude oil
declined 0.4 percent to $105.02 a barrel in  New York .  “We’re in an economic recovery and the stock market is
reflecting that,” said  John Carey , a Boston-based money manager
at Pioneer Investments, which oversees about $250 billion.
“Companies are flush with cash and there’s been a pick-up in
M&A activity, which is an indication of corporate confidence. In
addition to that, crude oil prices are down and people can relax
a bit about energy costs not going through the roof.”  The S&P 500 yesterday erased last week’s gain as oil
reached a 29-month high. The gauge rallied 5.1 percent this year
as companies reported earnings that topped analysts’ estimates
for the eighth straight quarter and the  Federal Reserve  kept  interest rates  at a record low.  ‘Urgent Meeting’  Crude oil fell as members of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries discussed whether to hold a special meeting
and Libyan rebels prepared an offensive to regain a town.
Kuwait’s oil minister said OPEC members are considering whether
to convene an “urgent meeting.”    Nouriel Roubini , who predicted the global financial crisis,
said an increase in  oil prices  to $140 a barrel will cause some
advanced economies to slide back into recession. Underlying how
fragile the recovery is, Roubini said the  European Central Bank 
may be making a mistake by raising interest rates “too soon”
when debt-ridden countries on the euro region’s periphery
struggle to restore the competitiveness of exports.  Stock-index futures erased gains before the open of
exchanges as European Central Bank Governing Council member Axel Weber said he doesn’t want to correct market expectations for as
many as three quarter-point increases in the bank’s benchmark
interest rate this year.  ‘Zero Rate Trap’  “One of the biggest fears is that the developed nations
have gotten themselves into a zero rate trap,” said  Peter Sorrentino , who helps oversee $14.4 billion at Huntington Asset
Advisors in Cincinnati. “So, if they start to raise rates, the
market will begin to move beyond their control.”  Financial shares in the  S&P 500  rose 2.2 percent,
collectively, the biggest gain within 10 groups. The KBW Bank
Index added 2.7 percent, as all of its 24 stocks gained.  Bank of America jumped 4.7 percent, the most in the Dow, to
$14.69. The largest U.S. lender said its commercial- and
investment-banking businesses are already transitioning this
year and may post what the company considers normalized earnings
in 2012 and 2013.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , hosting the
lender’s first investor day since 2007, is seeking to assure
investors the bank will return to profitability as the economy
stabilizes and the company recovers from disputes with investors
over soured mortgages. The company’s net loss last year was
driven by writedowns at credit-card and home-lending units
acquired by Moynihan’s predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis .  ‘Growth Company’  “We are changing the culture of the company from a company
that was built upon acquisitions and consolidation,” Moynihan
said today in New York. “We are again a growth company.”   Sprint gained 4.9 percent to $4.70. Deutsche Telekom has
held talks to sell its T-Mobile USA unit to Sprint in exchange
for a major stake in the combined entity, said people with
knowledge of the matter. Talks have been on and off, and a deal
may not be reached, said the people, who spoke on the condition
of anonymity because the talks are private.  “In general, all options are open in the U.S. -- the sale
of the whole business or of parts,” Deutsche Telekom Chief
Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges said in an e-mail today. He
said the company could also find a partner, sell shares in the
market or form a network agreement.  Bill White, a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment.  M&A Scorecard  Announced takeovers of U.S. companies have totaled $186.4
billion so far in 2011, 21 percent more than in the same period
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A gauge of homebuilders in S&P indexes rallied 4.8 percent.
PulteGroup jumped 8.4 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$7.09. The largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue said it signed up
2,674 homes for sale in the first two months of the year. The
orders showed “demand continues to stabilize and slightly
improve entering the current spring selling season,” JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said in a note.  The Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index of 12 stocks jumped 7.3
percent, as the retreat in crude oil prices eased concern about
higher energy costs.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  climbed 12 percent to
$9.28.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  added 9.7 percent to $11.07.  Energy shares had the only decline in the S&P 500 among 10
industries, falling 0.6 percent, collectively.  Occidental
Petroleum Corp. (OXY)  slumped 2.1 percent to $100.92.  ConocoPhillips (COP) 
decreased 1.1 percent to $78.32.  McDonald’s Slumps    McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  fell 1 percent, the most in the Dow, to
$75.54. The world’s biggest restaurant chain reported sales rose
2.7 percent at stores open at least 13 months in the U.S. last
month, missing analysts’ estimates. Analysts had projected a
gain of 4 percent, according to the average of three estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.    Urban Outfitters Inc. (URBN)  had the biggest decline in the S&P
500, tumbling 17 percent to $31.66. The operator of the namesake
and Anthropologie clothing chains said profit margins shrank
last quarter. Gross margin, or the percentage of sales after the
cost of goods sold, narrowed 2 percentage points to 39.7 percent
in the quarter ended Jan. 31, the Philadelphia-based company
said yesterday. Profit amounted to 45 cents a share, trailing
the 52-cent average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The past two years have shown that stock investors need to
focus on “the beaten-up areas of the market” when prices
rebound, according to Tobias Levkovich, Citigroup Inc.’s chief
U.S. equity strategist.  More than Quintupled  Auto stocks set the S&P 500’s pace since March 9, 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as the industry-group
index more than quintupled in the period through yesterday.
Grocery and drugstore stocks had the smallest gain, at 34
percent. The two industries’ rankings were almost exactly the
opposite in the preceding bear market, which lasted 17 months.
The S&P 500 Automobiles and Components Index tumbled 84 percent,
more than any other industry except banks. The S&P 500 Food and
Staples Retailing Index did best by losing only 26 percent.  “Fears of a Great Depression reenactment provided
investors with a powerful trading opportunity over the past two
years,” Levkovich wrote today. The auto industry is among those
most closely linked to the economy’s performance, while food and
drug retailers had less to gain from economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  