-- 
Obama Administration Appeals Judge's Ruling Striking Down Health-Care Law

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-03-09T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/u-s-appeals-ruling-striking-down-health-care-law-over-insurance-mandate.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  said in
a court filing that it will appeal a federal judge’s Jan. 31
ruling striking down President  Barack Obama ’s health-care reform
legislation.  Federal lawyers filed a notice of appeal with U.S. District
Judge C. Roger Vinson in Pensacola,  Florida . Their submission
yesterday came two days before a deadline imposed by the judge
last week, when he put on hold enforcement of his ruling.  In January, Vinson became the second federal judge to find
unconstitutional a provision of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act requiring almost every person in the U.S. to
obtain insurance coverage starting in 2014.  “The sooner this issue is finally decided by the U.S.
Supreme Court, the better off our entire nation will be,”
Vinson said in a March 3 ruling responding to a U.S. request he
clarify the scope of his earlier decision.  Obama signed the legislation on March 23, 2010. That same
day, lawsuits challenging the constitutionality of the measure
were filed by the  attorneys general  of Florida and  Virginia .  The Florida case, begun by then-Attorney General Bill McCollum, was joined by 25 other states.  Vinson found Congress exceeded its legislative powers by
requiring individuals to procure insurance coverage. Holding
that that provision couldn’t be separated from the rest of the
act, he declared the entire measure invalid.  Clarification Request  While attorneys general for the plaintiff states disagreed
whether Vinson’s ruling meant portions of the law already
enacted were now unenforceable, the U.S. asked the judge to
clarify his ruling.  Vinson, in halting enforcement of his decision, also
directed the U.S. to seek expedited review of the ruling. The
Obama administration’s challenge will be heard by the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  in Atlanta.  The case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 10-cv-00091, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Florida (Pensacola).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  