-- 
Two U.S. Marshals Shot in St. Louis While Serving Warrant

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-03-08T23:13:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/u-s-marshal-shot-in-st-louis-said-to-be-critical-correct-.html
Two U.S. marshals and a police
officer were hit by gunfire while trying to serve an arrest
warrant at a  St. Louis  home, the latest attack on federal law
enforcement officials, authorities said.  During the gunfight today, law enforcement officers fired
on the suspect, Carlos Boles, 35, who was killed, said Dave
Oney, a spokesman for the Marshals Service in Washington.  One marshal, who suffered a gunshot wound to his head, was
in critical condition, said Laura Keller, a spokeswoman for  St.
Louis University Hospital . The other marshal, who had a gunshot
wound to his ankle, was in fair condition after surgery, she
said.  The police officer was grazed by a bullet on the face and
neck and was treated at  Barnes-Jewish Hospital  in St. Louis and
released, according to a statement from Erica Van Ross, a
spokeswoman for the  St. Louis police .  The incident followed others involving federal agents in
recent weeks. In February, a marshal trying to serve an arrest
warrant in  West Virginia  was killed. Also last month, a special
agent with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement was killed
while working in  Mexico .  The St. Louis incident began when two police officers and
eight marshals arrived at the house to take Boles into custody,
according to the police department’s statement. They were trying
to serve a warrant for assault on a law enforcement officer,
drug possession and resisting arrest.  When the law enforcement officers found Boles on the second
floor of the home, he began shooting, prompting the officers to
return fire, according to the police statement. After an
exchange of gunfire, authorities shot and killed Boles, the
statement said.  Authorities didn’t release the names of the law enforcement
officers involved in the shooting.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Justin Blum  in  Washington  at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  