-- 
Senate Said to Be Nearing Bill to Delay ‘Swipe’ Fee Rules

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-03-08T21:21:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/u-s-senate-said-to-be-nearing-bill-to-delay-debit-card-swipe-fee-rules.html
A bipartisan group of U.S. senators
is drafting legislation to delay debit-card “swipe” fee rules
that banks say would cost them billions of dollars, according to
two Senate aides with knowledge of the plan.  Senators Jon Tester of Montana and Tom Carper of Delaware,
both Democrats, are working on the bill’s language with Senator  Bob Corker , a Tennessee Republican, according to the two aides
who requested anonymity because the talks aren’t public.  The  Federal Reserve  proposed capping debit-card interchange
fees charged to merchants at 12 cents per transaction under a
Dodd-Frank Act requirement to align them more closely with the
processing costs. A bill to delay the measure, which may come
this week, would be the first legislative attack on a rule that
could cost lenders including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  as much as $12 billion in annual revenue.  “There’s no question legislation is being looked at,”
Corker said in an interview. “The question we’re dealing with
now is, what’s the best way of approaching this issue?” The
lawmakers discussed the shape of a bill on the Senate floor last
night, Corker said.  Opponents of the rule have found supporters in Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair , who questioned a provision exempting banks and
credit unions with less than $10 billion in assets, saying it
may have the unintended consequence of harming smaller lenders.  ‘Unnecessarily Narrow’  The comments by Bernanke and Bair, and Acting Comptroller
of the Currency John Walsh’s March 4 letter to the Fed calling
the proposal “unnecessarily narrow,” bolster the case for a
corrective bill, lawmakers said. At least seven senators who
voted to include the swipe-fee provision in Dodd-Frank last year
have filed  comment letters  raising concerns about the proposal.  If legislation is introduced, it would likely seek to
change the timing of the rulemaking, which Dodd-Frank requires
to be completed by April 21 and in effect by July 21. Bernanke
said the Fed may miss the April 21 deadline.  Shares of San Francisco-based  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard
Inc. (MA) , which set the fees and pass the money to card-issuing
banks, fell more than 10 percent after the Fed’s plan was
released Dec. 16 amid investor concern that the caps will damage
their business model.  Visa advanced 2 cents to $74.17 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading, reversing an earlier loss after news
of the Senate talks was reported. MasterCard, based Purchase,
New York, climbed 0.7 percent to $249.  Party Lines  The interchange-fee issue has cut across party lines, with
Democrats squaring off with one another and Republicans in both
chambers forced to pick between the largest retailers in their
states or districts or the community banks and  credit unions 
that have flooded  Capitol Hill  with calls and personal visits.  In the House, where lawmakers didn’t get a chance to vote
on a stand-alone measure during last year’s financial-regulation
debate, Republicans have seized on the idea of government-
mandated price caps and members from both parties have focused
on the small-lender exemption.  Representative Randy Neugebauer, a Texas Republican who
leads a Financial Services subcommittee, said in an interview
that House lawmakers are crafting a bill that would require a
two-year delay and an economic analysis by federal regulators of
the rule’s impact.  ‘Bill of Goods’  House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus 
told credit union executives last week that they had been “sold
a bill of goods, and that bill of goods was that interchange
fees don’t apply to you.”  Still, Bachus said yesterday that the House leadership is
waiting for the Democrat-controlled Senate to act before moving
forward with their own legislation.  “Politically, this issue is really going to be a
challenge,” Bachus, an Alabama Republican, said.  The financial-services industry has combined its lobbying
clout in the effort to beat back the rule, forming a coalition
that includes banks, credit unions and card networks. The groups
have taken the fight to congressional offices and airwaves
across the country, with the Electronic Payments Coalition, a
group representing payment networks and card issuers, funding a
television  advertisement  opposing the rule.  The  Credit Union National Association  and the Independent
Community Bankers of America, Washington-based trade groups
representing smaller lenders, have sent members to Capitol Hill
to lobby for changes.  Retailers  Retailers, including  Target Corp. (TGT) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  have fought back with lobbying and ads of their
own in support of the Fed  proposal . Retail industry groups have
organized a fly-in of more than 70 small-business owners this
week to visit Capitol Hill to lobby against legislation.  Tester, who is up for re-election next year, has faced
negative advertisements in his home state by retailers.  The Montana Democrat said that while he understands the
issue “has some controversy to it,” changes to the provision
will end up aiding some of the small businesses that are
lobbying against him.  “If  debit cards  go away, it’s not going to help small
businesses,” Tester said today in an interview.  Senator  Richard Durbin , the Illinois Democrat who
championed the swipe-fee provision, said retail-industry
lobbying and his own outreach are starting to gain traction.  ‘Getting Mobilized’  Retailers “have spent the last seven to 10 days really
getting mobilized,” Durbin, the Senate’s second-ranking
Democrat, said in an interview.  There is still a long road ahead before any changes can be
made,  Brian Gardner , an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette & Woods,
said today in a note to clients.  “Our view remains unchanged despite some of the recent
political noise -- we think it is unlikely that Congress will
either delay the implementation of Durbin or change the
substance,” wrote Gardner, a former House Republican aide.  Still, the tactics being used by small banks and credit
unions are having an impact, said Durbin, who cited regular
calls he’s receiving from colleagues registering concerns
brought to them by local lenders.  The Fed hasn’t publicly requested more time to craft the
rules, even though Bernanke and Fed Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin 
told lawmakers last month that the central bank would have
trouble meeting the Dodd-Frank deadline.  Getting a rule approved by April 21 “is a question at this
point,” Bernanke told lawmakers at a Senate hearing on March 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  