-- 
U.S. Should Consider $1 Gas Tax, CEO Hess Says

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 
2011-03-09T01:39:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/u-s-should-mull-1-gas-tax-boost-auto-efficiency-hess-says.html
(Corrects name of The National Petrochemical and Refiners
Association in seventh paragraph.)  The U.S. should consider imposing a
$1-a-gallon gasoline tax and boosting average auto fuel economy
to 50 miles a gallon to help avert a global energy crisis, the
head of oil company  Hess Corp. (HES)  said.  “As demand grows in the next decade, we will not have the
oil-production capacity we will need to meet demand,” Chief
Executive Officer John B. Hess said in a speech today at
CERAWeek, a Houston conference held by IHS Cambridge Energy
Research Associates. “The $140-per-barrel oil price of three
years ago was not an aberration -- it was a warning.”  Amid unrest in the Middle East, oil futures touched $106.95
a barrel yesterday in New York, the highest intraday price since
Sept. 26, 2008. The average price of regular gasoline at the
pump in the U.S. has risen 12 percent in the last three weeks to
$3.509 a gallon, the most since Oct. 5, 2008, according to AAA.  Hess said the debate on raising gasoline taxes should wait
until the economy recovers. The U.S. government currently
imposes an 18.4-cent-a-gallon levy, about 38 percent of average
per-gallon gasoline taxes, according to the  American Petroleum
Institute . Hess, based in  New York , produced an average of
419,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day last year.  “Until the economy’s growing and people are put back to
work, I would not encourage the country to have a debate on
energy taxes,” Hess told reporters in a news conference after
his speech. “Once our economy is back on its feet and people
are back to work, it should be something that gets full
examination and full consideration.”  Keep Tax Incentives  The  American Petroleum Institute , a trade group for oil
companies of which Hess is a member, hasn’t taken a position on
the $1 gasoline tax, spokesman Bill Bush said in an e-mail after
reviewing the speech. Climate solutions should be efficient,
market-based and comprehensive with the costs and burdens
distributed equitably across society, he said.  The  National Petrochemical and Refiners Association  hasn’t
endorsed a specific proposal for an increase in gasoline taxes,
Charles T. Drevna, president of the trade group, said in an e-
mailed message. Hess is a member, David Egner, a spokesman for
the group, said.  The U.S. needs to “moderate” demand for oil and increase
supply, Hess said. That includes boosting current corporate
average fuel-economy standards that call for a 35 mile-a-gallon
target for cars and light trucks by 2016, he said.    Deficit Reduction   The government shouldn’t eliminate tax provisions that
encourage drilling and should allow the industry to “get back
to work” in the  Gulf of Mexico , Hess said.  The U.S. also needs to “get serious about  climate change 
once our economy recovers,” Hess said. Increasing the gasoline
tax and levying a $10-a-ton tax on power-plant emissions would
raise $200 billion a year to reduce deficits and fund
alternative fuel research, he said.  Carbon taxes should be “introduced over a five-year period
and only when other major industrial powers” do the same, Hess
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;  Jim Polson  in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 