-- 
UBS Says Rising Compensation for Bankers May Shrink Profit Margin in Asia

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-03-09T06:05:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/ubs-says-asia-profit-margins-may-shrink-as-banker-pay-increases.html
  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
said its profit margins in Asia may shrink for as long as two
years as competition for bankers in the world’s fastest-growing
major economies drives up compensation costs.  Staff expenses are increasing faster in Asia than in any
other region, Alex Wilmot-Sitwell, co-head of UBS’s Asia-Pacific
operations, said in an interview in Sydney yesterday.  China ,
India and  Indonesia  are among “hot markets” where employee
costs are climbing, he said.  “Unless your revenues are running at significantly higher
levels than that, this may lead to a risk of margin
compression,” said Wilmot-Sitwell, 49. “If history is any
guide, it will likely persist for a year or two.”  Banks are sacrificing profitability for a slice of  Asia ’s
expanding markets for personal wealth and corporate advisory
services as growth in the region outpaces the U.S. and  Europe .
Thinner margins in Asia may make it harder for UBS to meet Chief
Executive Officer Oswald Gruebel’s demand for “significantly”
better investment-banking earnings in 2011 after the bank
returned to profit last year.  UBS’s workforce in China, the focus of the bank’s Asian
recruitment plans, will double to more than 1,000 people in five
years, said Wilmot-Sitwell. Research staff in the nation will
triple to 100, he said. The former co-head of UBS’s investment
bank shifted to his current role in Hong Kong in November, and
he is a member of the group executive board.  Cost of Business  “It’s an investment cost of continuing to grow a business
in the fastest-growing market in the world,” he said. “There’s
wealth creation in China today on a scale that’s never been
seen.”  UBS’s Asia-Pacific workforce, which expanded 6 percent to
7,263 people in 2010, may sustain that pace in the next five
years, he said.    HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the two
British lenders that make most of their profit in Asia, are also
paying more to hire bankers in the region as revenue climbs.  HSBC last month said rising staff costs outpaced revenue
growth as it posted full-year earnings that missed analysts’
estimates. Peter Wong, HSBC’s head of Asia, said this month the
London-based bank was “well short of talent” in China. HSBC
Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said he was paying more
for bankers in Asia than in Britain.  At  Standard Chartered , expenses increased last year after
the bank added branches in China and hired 7,000 people. Staff
costs swelled 17 percent in 2010 while headcount climbed 9
percent, the lender said March 3.  ‘Huge Opportunity’  Wilmot-Sitwell said he’s relying on China,  Hong Kong , Japan,  Singapore  and  Australia  to drive growth in the region for UBS,
which was the top arranger of Asia Pacific mergers and
acquisitions in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In China, the bank has been hired to work on more than 50
initial public offerings, he said. Under a three-to-five year
plan unveiled in 2009, he’s charged with increasing Asia-Pacific
revenue 66 percent to about 8.5 billion Swiss francs ($9.1
billion).  UBS wealth managers and investment bankers can win work for
one another from the family-owned businesses that dominate many
Asian nations, according to Wilmot-Sitwell. Such so-called
cross-selling revenue may double to 1.5 billion Swiss francs in
the next four years, he said.  “Much of the private wealth we manage is linked to
business ownership and capital markets activity,” he said. “If
we join that up properly, then we have a huge opportunity.”  Still, violence in the Middle East is weighing on the flow
of Asian takeovers, and share and bond sales, he said.  “The corporate attitude is quite cautious and the
institutional attitude is quite cautious,” said Wilmot-Sitwell.
“There’s quite a good appetite for client activity, but we’re
going through a period of uncertainty which is holding things
up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  