-- 
Under Armour Gets Premier League Presence With Tottenham Apparel Contract

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-03-08T15:37:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/under-armour-gets-premier-league-presence-with-tottenham-apparel-contract.html
  Under Armour Inc. (UA)  will provide
jerseys and other team apparel to Tottenham Hotspur, giving the
U.S. sportswear maker its first contract with a club in soccer’s
richest league.  “This allows us to create a media vehicle in a market
where we are under-penetrated,” Mark Dowley, Under Armour’s
executive vice president, global brand and president of
international, said today in an interview in  London .  The Baltimore-based company, which exceeded $1 billion in
annual sales for the first time last year, said it will take
over from the English Premier League team’s current supplier,
Puma AG, at the start of the 2012-13 season.  Terms of the five-year deal weren’t disclosed. Puma,  Europe ’s second-largest sporting-goods maker, signed a contract
extension last year.  Tottenham, which has Wales national team member Gareth Bale
and Dutch World Cup player Rafael van der Vaart in its squad,
qualified for the Champions League for the first time after
finishing fourth in  England ’s top division last season. It plays
Italian league leader AC Milan in the second match of their
round-of-16 encounter tomorrow after a 1-0 win in Italy on Feb.
15.  The north London club had been “at the top of our play
book,” Dowley said. Under Armour is looking to sign more deals
with soccer clubs in the Premier League as well as in the rest
of Europe, he added.  “They are an extremely ambitious brand with global
aspirations, making them ideal partners for Tottenham Hotspur,”
Daniel Levy, Tottenham’s chairman, said in a statement on the
club’s website.  Under Armour has been expanding agreements with sports
teams and athletes in recent years to increase its market share
outside the U.S. As well as having deals with New England
Patriots quarterback  Tom Brady  and Olympic downhill champion  Lindsey Vonn  to market its cotton performance sportswear, it
provides apparel for the Wales rugby union team.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Danielle Rossingh in London at 
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  