-- 
Hungary Bonds May Underperform Region on Budget, ING Says

-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 
2011-03-08T16:10:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/hungary-bonds-may-underperform-after-shocking-budget-ing-says.html
  Hungary ’s bonds may underperform
debt from other countries in the region as investors await
details from Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government on plans
to cut the budget deficit, according to ING Groep NV.  The shortfall was 559.7 billion forint ($2.9 billion)
through February, 81.4 percent of the annual target, the Economy
Ministry said in an e-mailed report late yesterday.  The yield on bonds maturing in 2020 rose 7 basis points to
7.488 percent at 4:16 p.m. in Budapest. The forint depreciated
0.5 percent to 272.86 per euro.  The European Union’s most-indebted eastern member, whose
credit may be downgraded to junk, plans to cut spending and
delay tax cuts in an “attack” on government debt, Economy
Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said in Budapest on March 1. Matolcsy
set deadlines to give details on the measures, with further
information on a plan to overhaul disability pensions and early
retirement and a new drug subsidy system due  July 1 .  “Until the government provides these details, yields can
underperform the region,” David Nemeth, a Budapest-based ING
economist, wrote in a research note today. The deficit level
“confirms the need for fiscal adjustment.”  Hungary’s 2020 bonds have lost 1 percent this month,
compared with a 0.4 percent drop in returns for similar-maturity
Polish notes.  Orban has imposed temporary taxes on industry and channeled
funds from private pensions to help finance spending and contain
the  budget deficit .  Moody’s Investors Service,  Fitch Ratings  and Standard &
Poor’s all rate Hungary’s credit one step above junk with a
negative outlook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  