-- 
Tunisian Stocks Index Surges for Second Day as Locals Look to Stability

-- B y   A h m e d   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-03-08T15:58:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/tunisian-stocks-surge-for-second-day-as-locals-eye-stability.html
Tunisia’s benchmark stock index
rallied, posting the biggest two-day gain since January 2000, as
shares near their lowest levels in more than a year attracted
investors after the government started a political reform plan.  The benchmark Tunindex jumped 3.6 percent to 4,380.31 at
the 2:10 p.m. close in the capital Tunis, bringing the two-day
gain to 7.9 percent, paring the loss so far this year to 14
percent. Banque de Tunisie, the country’s biggest lender by
market value, rose the most since Feb. 18.  Societe Frigorifique
et Brasserie de Tunis (SFBT)  SA, the country’s biggest producer of
bottled beverages, climbed 4.5 percent.  “The prime minister’s speech and the steps taken have been
reassuring to local investors,” said Mourad Ladgeme, assistant
general director of Tunis-based Biat Capital. “But this rebound
is purely technical and foreigners are staying out of the market
because of the recent closures.”  Tunisia’s stock market has shut down twice this year for a
total of three weeks after a popular revolution ousted President
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January and forced the resignation of
his appointed Prime Minister Mohamed Ghannouchi the following
month. The benchmark index retreated 11 percent during
Ghannouchi’s tenure after Ben Ali left on Jan. 14.  Newly appointed Prime Minister Beji Caid Essebsi named a
new cabinet and dissolved the state security agency yesterday,
after announcing on March 3 the country will hold an election
July 24 for a commission to write a new constitution, meeting a
key demand of protesters.    Banque de Tunisie (BT)  rose 4.4 percent to 10.63 Tunisian
dinars. Societe Frigorifique closed at 12.39 dinars, the highest
in two months. Banq Internationale Arabe de Tunisie advanced 4.5
percent to 59.35 dinars, the highest level since Feb. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  