-- 
Pratt & Whitney’s New Engine Powers ILFC’s Order for Upgraded Airbus Jets

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-03-08T18:21:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/united-technologies-pratt-chosen-by-ilfc-to-power-airbus-jets.html
  Pratt & Whitney ’s geared turbofan
engine was chosen by International Lease Finance Corp. to power
60 Airbus A320neo aircraft, the largest order yet for the new,
more efficient turbine.  The engine from Pratt & Whitney, a unit of Hartford,
Connecticut-based  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , competes with the
Leap-X from  CFM International , a joint venture of General
Electric Co. and  Safran SA (SAF)  of France, to power Airbus SAS’s
A320neo. The neo offers customers more fuel-efficient engines on
the Toulouse, France-based company’s narrow-body jets.  Pratt & Whitney didn’t disclose financial terms and hasn’t
publicly provided a list price for the new engine. Pratt will
provide 120 engines for the ILFC’s  A320 family  orders, which
include larger A321 variants. Deliveries of the jets are slated
to begin in 2016, ILFC said.  “This is the first win for the new P&W engine on the
A320neo, and given the quality of the customer, I’d say it is a
strong endorsement of the potential qualities of this engine,”
said Rob Stallard, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets in New York
who has an “outperform” rating on United Technologies.  The aircraft will benefit from an engine with “double-
digit” reductions in fuel burn, Pratt said in a statement.
An additional 80 engines may be provided for an additional 40
planes, the engine-maker said.  “We look forward to extending the benefits of this new
engine technology, which will improve  fuel efficiency  and
address other environmental advantages for our customers,”
Henri Courpron, ILFC’s chief executive officer, said in Pratt’s
statement.  ILFC, a division of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , also
ordered 33  Boeing Co. 737-800s , exclusively powered by CFM’s
existing CFM56 model, with deliveries starting in 2012. The
total orders, including options, are valued at $11.8 billion at
list prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  