-- 
Unum Group Is Said to Have Discussed Sale to Canada's Sun Life Financial

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 
2011-03-08T21:46:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/unum-group-is-said-to-have-discussed-sale-to-canada-s-sun-life-financial.html
  Unum Group (UNM) , the largest U.S.
disability insurer, recently weighed a sale to Canada’s  Sun Life
Financial Inc. (SLF)  before talks broke down, said a person with
knowledge of the matter.  With a market capitalization of about $8 billion,
Chattanooga, Tennessee-based Unum would have been the biggest
sale of a public U.S. insurance company since 2004. The person
declined to be identified because the talks were private.  “I think Sun Life knows they have to get bigger in the
U.S.,” said Ian Nakamoto, director of research at MacDougall
MacDougall & MacTier Inc. in Toronto, which manages about C$4
billion in assets including Sun Life shares. “It’s hard for me
to think of any other natural avenues of growth.”  Sun Life,  Canada ’s third-largest insurer, said in November
2009 that it needed an acquisition in the U.S. life-insurance
market to “significantly” expand its presence there, according
to President Jon Boscia. Boscia announced in October that he was
retiring from Toronto-based Sun Life in the first quarter of
this year.  Sun Life received about a third of its revenue last year
from the U.S., according to Bloomberg data. The insurer has more
than 2,800 employees in the U.S. and owns Boston-based  MFS
Investment Management , the country’s oldest mutual fund.  Sun Life rose 20 cents to C$31.15 at the 4 p.m. close of
trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. Unum climbed 63 cents, or
2.4 percent, to $26.44 in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading.  Jim Sabourin, a spokesman for Unum, and Frank Switzer, a
spokesman for Sun Life, declined to comment.  The talks broke down in January, and Unum may still be open
to approaches, according to the Wall Street Journal, which
reported the discussions earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 