-- 
Uranium Drops 4.7% After U.S. Approves Fuel Transfers, UxC Says

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-03-08T05:15:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/uranium-drops-4-7-after-u-s-approves-fuel-transfers-uxc-says.html
Uranium prices fell 4.7 percent
after the U.S. authorized transfers of the nuclear fuel to fund
accelerated cleanup operations at a former enrichment plant
owned by the government, according to  Ux Consulting Co.   Uranium-oxide concentrate for immediate delivery traded at
$66.50 a pound in the seven days ended yesterday, down from
$69.75 the week before, UxC said in an e-mailed report today,
based on the most competitive offer tracked by the Roswell,
Georgia-based company.  The Portsmouth Gaseous Diffusion Plant in Piketon,  Ohio ,
owned by the  Department of Energy , ceased uranium enrichment
production in 2001. Energy Secretary Steven Chu  said  March 2 the
department had found the proposed transfers through the third
quarter of 2013 would have no adverse material impact on the
domestic uranium, conversion and enrichment industries.  “Most of the uranium market’s attention over the past week
has centered on the Department of Energy’s announcement of no
adverse impact from its sales/transfers of uranium inventory
during the 2011-2013 time period,” UxC said. “Volatility seems
to be the watchword today, as seen not only in the stock and oil
markets but the uranium market as well.”  Uranium prices, which rose to a record $136 a pound in 2007
before falling to about $40, have gained since mid-2010 as  China 
increased the use of nuclear power to curb emissions from
burning coal. More than 150 new reactors are planned worldwide
by 2030, with China expected to add 50 units, according to data
compiled by the  World Nuclear Association .  Prices of uranium climbed 17 percent in January and fell
4.5 percent last month. Selling from China contributed to the
February decline, according to UxC.  Nuclear-power utilities buy the bulk of their uranium for
processing into fuel from mining companies, with the contracts
mostly extending beyond a year. The immediate delivery, or  spot
market , allows trading for delivery within a year and includes
financial investors. The U.S. government also periodically
conducts auctions to reduce stocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 Jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 