-- 
Valiant Farms Out 70% of Cladhan Interests in North Sea

-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 
2011-03-08T08:24:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/valiant-farms-out-70-of-cladhan-interests-in-north-sea.html
  Valiant Petroleum Plc (VPP) , the U.K.-
based oil explorer, traded 70 percent of its stake in blocks
near the Cladhan discovery in the North Sea in three
transactions with  Sterling Resources Ltd. (SLG)  and BASF SE’s
Wintershall unit.  Valiant’s interest in the Cladhan blocks will drop to 30
percent from 100 percent. It will acquire a 40 percent interest
in blocks in the central North Sea operated by Sterling.  The deals spread the risk of drilling disappointments or
the reward from new finds between the three companies. Cladhan
underwent a successful test in September by EnCore Oil Plc in an
adjacent field, producing a stable rate of 5,903 barrels of oil
a day, and Sterling is seeking a rig for further exploration in
the second half of the year.  The move gives “Valiant exposure to a near-term
exploration well on this exciting play in its core Northern  North Sea  area while also expanding its portfolio further,”
said Peter Buchanan, Valiant’s chief executive officer. “We
look forward to working together with our new partners and
benefiting from their extensive knowledge gained in the area
from the drilling to date which has taken place on the Cladhan
discovery.”  Agora Oil & Gas U.K. Ltd. is another partner in the Cladhan
blocks. The deal is subject to regulatory approval.  In an asset swap, Calgary-based Sterling will acquire a 25
percent interest in blocks 210/29c and 210/30b in the northern
North Sea, adjacent to two blocks on the southern side of the
Cladhan field in which Sterling is the operator, Sterling said
in a statement today. In exchange, Valiant receives a 40 percent
interest in the central North Sea blocks 21/30f and 22/26c,
awarded to Sterling in the U.K. licensing round last year.  “We are glad to be partnered with Valiant in the Central
North Sea licenses which contain a number of exploration and
appraisal opportunities which both parties are keen to
evaluate,” said Sterling CEO Mike Azancot in a separate
statement. “We are assessing the possibility of drilling a well
in a mapped southern channel later this year on the Blocks
acquired through this transaction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  