-- 
VimpelCom Says It Would Focus on Local Purchases After Wind Deal

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-03-08T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/vimpelcom-says-it-would-focus-on-local-purchases-after-wind-deal.html
  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) ,  Russia ’s third-
largest mobile-phone company, plans to focus on consolidation
within existing markets if it succeeds in merging with Wind
Telecom SpA.  “If the transaction closes, then we’ll most likely be off
the international M&A market for a couple of years,” Chief
Executive Officer Alexander Izosimov said in a telephone
interview. “We cannot rule out in-market acquisitions because
those almost instantly create value and there is no dispute
about the synergies.”  VimpelCom shareholders will vote March 17 on the issue of
630 million shares needed to complete the combination with Wind
Telecom in a deal valued at about $6.5 billion. The company’s
plan to acquire assets from Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris ,
including a company in  Italy , is opposed by  Telenor ASA (TEL) , which
holds more than 39 percent of Amsterdam-based VimpelCom.  The CEO expects to prevail in the shareholder vote. “The
transaction will go through, with a high level of probability,”
Izosimov said. An enlarged VimpelCom would be present in as many
as 19 countries with an addressable population of 838 million
people after the merger, according to company presentations.  The company would be interested in assets such as  OAO NTK ,
a Vladivostok-based operator currently controlled by Korea
Telecom Corp.,  Motiv  in the Urals, and  OAO Smarts  in the Volga
area to expand its Russian base, according to the CEO.  Serbia Speculation  VimpelCom is also “unlikely” to bid for Telekom Srbija AD,
Izosimov said.  The Serbian government has said it expects at least 1.4
billion euros ($2 billion) from the sale of a 51 percent stake
in Telekom Srbija. Austrian publication WirtschaftsBlatt
reported March 8 that VimpelCom may say this week that it is
still bidding for the stake in Telekom Srbija.  A merged company could also compete for assets in  Pakistan 
and  Bangladesh , “where you have six or seven players,”
Izosimov said.  Telenor  is the largest operator in Bangladesh,
with Grameenphone, and the second-largest operator in Pakistan.  “I wouldn’t even rule out Italy,” he said. “I would be
open to consider acquisitions there both on the mobile and fixed
side.”  Izosimov also said the company is close to a deal in  Laos .
VimpelCom agreed to buy a company in Laos from Millicom
International Cellular SA for $65 million in Sept. 2009. The
transaction has yet to close as VimpelCom sought additional
government approvals, according to Millicom.  “We finally reached full understanding and I hope we’ll
close the transaction shortly,” Izosimov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  