-- 
VimpelCom Chief Says Company Will Win Investor Vote on Wind

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-03-09T16:07:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/vimpelcom-chief-says-company-will-win-shareholder-vote-on-wind.html
VimpelCom Ltd.,  Russia ’s third-
largest wireless carrier by subscribers, said it expects to
prevail in the shareholder vote on merging with Wind Telecom SpA
to create the world’s sixth-largest phone company.  “The transaction will go through with a high level of
probability,” VimpelCom Chief Executive Officer Alexander Izosimov said in a phone interview.  VimpelCom’s plan to buy assets from Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris  is opposed by  Telenor ASA (TEL) , which holds more than
39 percent of VimpelCom. The $6.5 billion deal would double
VimpelCom’s mobile customer base to about 173 million, adding
subscribers in Italy,  Canada ,  Pakistan ,  Bangladesh  and Algeria.
VimpelCom will hold a shareholder meeting on March 17 and needs
more than 50 percent of the votes to win approval.  “Management was following the mandate in the creation of
VimpelCom Ltd., where the task and strategy was outlined as
developing and expanding the growth platform for the group,”
Izosimov said. “Telenor has shifted its stance and suggested
treating the company more as a cash cow, staying in the
geography where it operates.”  Telenor disputed the characterization, saying the original
plan was to strengthen the company’s existing operations over
the “short term” of the first 12 to 24 months before designing
an acquisition strategy and pursuing new assets.  Dispute  “It is more the company changing its interpretation of
what was previously agreed - we haven’t shifted our stance at
all,”  Torbjoern Wist , the Fornebu, Norway-based company’s head
of mergers and acquisitions, said in a telephone interview.    VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  was formed after Telenor and Russia’s Alfa
Group agreed in October 2009 to merge their stakes in Russia’s
OAO VimpelCom and Ukraine’s ZAT Kyivstar, ending years of legal
disputes. The company, which also has assets in  Kazakhstan ,
Uzbekistan,  Georgia  and sub-Saharan Africa, established trading
in American depositary receipts and a headquarters in Amsterdam.  The company plans to negotiate with the Algerian government
to retain Djezzy, the local unit it would obtain through buying
the Sawiris assets, Izosimov said. Such a deal might involve the
sale of a minority stake, he said.  Sawiris’s holding company has said it is willing to discuss
selling the unit to Algeria, which is seeking more than $800
million in backdated taxes from the business.  Telenor’s Wist said he doesn’t believe  Algeria  will stay in
the portfolio.  “Given the rhetoric of the Algerian government, that asset
will most likely disappear,” he said.  Vote  Izosimov urged shareholders to approve the Wind acquisition
in a March 7 letter. He argued that the transaction would
position VimpelCom in the top tier of operators and increase
potential for future growth. Diversifying it away from the
Russian ruble would also help, he said.  VimpelCom expects net debt to decline to less than twice
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
within two years of the deal, Izosimov said. Mobile-data
products from the Italian business will add experience needed
for other markets, he said.  Telenor sent its own letter March 2, suggesting VimpelCom
pay an extra dividend of at least $1 a share instead of making
the deal with Sawiris. The Norwegian company said that most of
Wind’s profit comes from  Italy , which is a mature market and not
in line with VimpelCom’s strategy of investing in emerging
markets. Telenor also said VimpelCom is overpaying and taking on
too much debt.  Arbitration  Telenor, the Nordic region’s largest phone company, has
submitted a share issue connected with the deal for arbitration,
saying it violates the  shareholder agreement  between Telenor,
VimpelCom and Altimo, the other main owner. Telenor says the
agreement gives it a right to keep its proportional stake in
VimpelCom in the case of an acquisition.  The Wind deal calls for VimpelCom to issue new stock
representing 20 percent of shares outstanding and 31 percent of  voting rights  to investors in Wind.  Altimo, the telecommunications arm of Russia’s  Alfa Group ,
supports the merger. Altimo has 44.7 percent of votes to
Telenor’s 36 percent. Each has three seats on the board, which
approved the deal in January, with Altimo and independent
directors in favor and Telenor opposed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  