-- 
LVMH Paying Highest Price Makes Bulgari 82% Costlier Than Hermes: Real M&A

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-03-08T04:33:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/lvmh-paying-highest-price-makes-bulgari-82-costlier-than-hermes-real-m-a.html
Six weeks after  LVMH Moet Hennessy
Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  said it wouldn’t overpay for acquisitions, the
world’s largest maker of  luxury goods  is now spending more than
ever to purchase  Bulgari SpA. (BUL)    LVMH, which sells everything from Louis Vuitton bags to Dom
Perignon champagne and Royal Van Lent yachts, agreed yesterday
to pay 3.7 billion euros ($5.2 billion) for the Rome-based watch
and jewelry maker in its biggest takeover in at least a decade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Including net debt, the
deal values Bulgari at as much as 28.2 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, higher than LVMH
has offered for any other company and 82 percent more than it
paid for a stake in  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA in October.  Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault , who built Paris-
based LVMH through acquisitions over more than  two decades , is
paying the biggest premium in 10 years to gain control of the
world’s third-largest jeweler from Bulgari’s founding family.
While Bulgari’s earnings slumped 67 percent in the past three
years and the company has a lower operating margin than any of
its largest rivals, Arnault is betting he can boost
profitability as Bulgari’s sales reach a record this year.  “It’s priced on the assumption that they’ll do well with
it,” said James Moffett, who helps oversee $20 billion in  Kansas City ,  Missouri , at Scout Investments, which owns about
675,000 shares of LVMH. “They’re obviously paying a fairly full
price for it. There’s always a risk that it doesn’t work.”  ‘Skilled Operators’  Still, “they’re skilled operators and they’re used to
dealing in the luxury-goods business,” Moffett said. “There
are a lot of ways that they could mess it up, but the odds are
that they won’t.”  LVMH, founded in 1987 from the merger of Moet Hennessy and  Louis Vuitton , has completed more than two dozen acquisitions in
the past decade as Arnault forged a luxury goods maker now
valued at $77 billion. Sales have almost doubled in that span to
20.3 billion euros, Bloomberg data show.  Bulgari would be Arnault’s biggest takeover attempt since
shareholders rejected his $6.15 billion bid for Gucci Group NV
in 1999, the data show.  LVMH will buy the 50.4 percent stake owned by Bulgari’s
founding family using stock and then make a tender offer for the
rest in cash, the companies said yesterday. The deal values the
family’s stake at 1.91 billion euros, while LVMH’s 12.25 euro
per share offer to minority investors will cost almost 1.84
billion euros, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Convertible Bond  Including options and the purchase of a convertible bond,
the company is paying a total price of 4.3 billion euros, LVMH
said on a conference call yesterday.  The stock portion of the acquisition gives Bulgari an
enterprise value, or its equity and debt minus cash, of 4.04
billion euros, or 28.2 times its Ebitda of 143.3 million euros
in the past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
tender offer was struck at 25.8 times Bulgari’s Ebitda.  LVMH’s deal for the controlling stake held by Bulgari’s
founding family would be more than twice as expensive as the
median Ebitda multiple of 11.9 times the company has
historically paid in acquisitions, Bloomberg data show.  The 12.25 euro offer to minority shareholders is a 60
percent premium to Bulgari’s average share price in the 20 days
prior to the announcement, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s the biggest since the 115 percent premium for the
purchase of Donna Karan International Inc. completed in 2001.  “LVMH is paying a hefty premium, there is no way around
it,”  Luca Solca , a London-based retail analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said yesterday.  ‘Very Picky’  Philippe Pascal, LVMH’s then-head of watches and jewelry,
said earlier this year that the company wasn’t in a rush to
pursue acquisitions and wouldn’t overpay.  “We will not bid too high,” he said. “We are very
picky.”  LVMH said yesterday that Bulgari CEO Francesco Trapani will
replace Pascal, who will remain on the company’s executive
committee and be given new responsibilities in the group.  In October, LVMH acquired a 17.1 percent stake in Hermes
for 1.45 billion euros, valuing the transaction at 15.5 times
Ebitda, or almost half as much as the Bulgari deal, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hermes, the Paris-based maker of Birkin and Kelly bags, has
said it isn’t interested in collaborating with LVMH, which has
built a 20.2 percent stake.  “If you want to seduce a beautiful woman, you don’t start
by raping her from behind,” Hermes CEO Patrick Thomas said on
March 4 at a presentation in Paris.  Active Investor  Hermes wants LVMH to reduce its stake by more than half,
according to Bertrand Puech, who heads the bag maker’s founding
family. LVMH has said it doesn’t plan to sell its stake and that
it doesn’t intend to be a passive investor.  The company is currently valued at 24.2 times Ebitda, which
will make any potential bid by LVMH more expensive. The 28.2
times Ebitda that LVMH paid for Bulgari would value Hermes’
equity at almost 18.9 billion euros. That would equal a 16
percent premium to Hermes’ share price yesterday.  Prior to the takeover announcement, LVMH had gained 38
percent in the past five years, while Bulgari declined 27
percent. Hermes more than doubled in the same period, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  LVMH’s takeover of Bulgari will double the size of LVMH’s
watches and jewelry unit, which currently includes Tag Heuer
timepieces and De Beers diamond necklaces. Bulgari’s sales will
climb to a record 1.16 billion euros this year, according to
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Watch Sales  LVMH gets about 4.9 percent of its sales from watches and
jewelry, compared with 68 percent for Bulgari, the data show.  Bulgari retained about 63 cents per dollar of revenue in
the past 12 months, after subtracting costs to produce its
goods, more than double the median for global jewelry retailers
with more than $1 billion in market value, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Deducting Bulgari’s selling, general and administrative
expenses reduces its operating profit to 3.3 cents per dollar of
revenue, the lowest among jewelry sellers that analysts estimate
will have more than $1 billion in sales this year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.    Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  of  New York , the world’s second-largest
luxury jewelry retailer, had an operating margin of 18 percent.
Geneva-based Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the biggest jewelry
maker, had a margin of almost 20 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘The Rationale’  The Bulgari takeover is “clearly ambitious,” said Rene Weber, an analyst at Bank Vontobel AG in Zurich. It’s “one of
the most expensive deals ever seen in the industry,” he said.  Still, “there is a big potential for higher margins,”
Weber said. “That’s the rationale.”  Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Western Digital
Corp. (WDC) , the largest maker of computer hard-disk drives, agreed to
buy a rival unit of Tokyo-based  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  for about $4.3
billion in cash and stock to reduce costs.  Western Digital will pay $3.5 billion in cash and give
Hitachi 25 million of its shares, according to a statement
yesterday. Hitachi will own about 10 percent of  Irvine ,
California-based Western Digital after the deal is completed.    Terumo Corp. (4543)  of Tokyo, Japan’s largest medical device
maker, agreed to buy Gambro AB’s CaridianBCT unit for $2.63
billion, including debt, to become the world’s biggest maker of
blood-transfusion equipment.  There have been 4,171 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $413.2 billion, a 31 percent increase from the $314.8
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 