-- 
Weber Says ECB Council Was Right to Announce Benchmark Increase

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-03-08T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/weber-says-ecb-council-was-right-to-announce-benchmark-increase.html
Bundesbank President Axel Weber
comments on monetary policy, inflation and economic growth.  He made the remarks at a press conference in  Frankfurt 
today after the German central bank presented its annual report.  On monetary policy:  “The ECB’s council has announced that strong vigilance is
warranted at the moment with regard to monetary policy. Trichet
rightly pointed out that liquidity measures and interest-rate
policy have to be treated separately from each other.”  “The colleagues made exactly the right decision, namely to
take an interest-rate step. The Eurosystem has a clear mandate.
We mustn’t expand this mandate with too many other things.
Financial stability can’t be put on an equal footing with price
stability.”  “I would say that 99 percent of the time, we have gone the
right way. There were one or two measures that I wouldn’t do
again, but the overwhelming majority of the time, we went the
right way.”  “I don’t regret a day on which I have helped design the
monetary policy of the  euro zone .”  On liquidity exit:  “One should seriously think about an exit from full
allotment in the liquidity measures in the next few months.”  On bond purchases undermining countries’ consolidation efforts:  “I have the firm conviction that the purchase of bonds on
the secondary market has the potential to undercut the
conditionality set down by the stability fund.”  On euro-area inflation:  “I believe that price increases will be more sustained and
more fundamental than the projections suggest. There are a
number of fundamentals in emerging markets, a number of effects,
which worsen the medium- to long-term inflation outlook. This
has to be countered in a timely way. I do see considerable
future price pressures.”  On the German economy:  “We see an impressive cyclical resilience of the German
economy. A restructuring of the social-security systems and the
labor market played a role.”  “The recovery will transform into a broad-based upswing.”  “A further increase of employment is pre-programmed.”  “We expect growth of about 2.5 percent this year. That’s
our preliminary forecast. The next forecast will be published in
June.”  “Robust global developments continue to provide impulses.
The upswing should broaden. Potential growth in  Germany  is about
1 percent.”  On German inflation:  We’ll observe “a continued strong increase in consumer
prices. We will have to deal with this topic intensively, also
with regard to monetary policy.”  “German inflation will average around 2 percent this year.
In 2012, we even expect a certain easing as long as wage
increases” remain moderate.  On fiscal policy:  There is “no reason for an all clear.”  On Germany’s budget deficit:  “In the current year, the deficit could drop toward 2
percent if the government remains on its savings track.”  On bank supervision:  “Banking supervision is going to be more intense, more
intrusive in the future. We are going to be much more present.”  On whether he may join a large international bank:  “I don’t have anything to add to my statement from Feb.
11.”  On academic plans:  “I’m in talks about extending my leave of absence as a
professor into next year. I haven’t concluded talks about what I
will do until then. But currently” it “looks like as if I will
teach at the  University of Chicago ” from June.  “I’d be very happy to use this year of absence from the
University of Cologne to become a faculty member of the
University of Chicago. For a monetarist, that’s the prime
address to go to.”  “I’ll be in the U.S. for a year, then my contract at the
University of Cologne will” take effect.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  