-- 
German Factory Orders Exceed Forecasts as Weber Sees Broadening Expansion

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-03-08T11:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/weber-says-german-recovery-to-broaden-on-export-demand-lower-unemployment.html
German factory orders jumped more
than economists forecast in January and Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said the country’s “strong” economic recovery will
continue to broaden this year.  Manufacturing orders advanced 2.9 percent from December,
the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today, beating the 2.5
percent median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. The increase was largely driven by domestic demand.    Germany ’s strong cyclical recovery will continue in 2011,
albeit at a somewhat slower pace,” Weber said in a statement
today when unveiling the Bundesbank’s 2010 annual accounts.
Companies’ need for machinery and equipment should increase
further and, despite faster inflation, “private consumption is
also expected to increase amidst continued positive labor market
developments,” Weber said.  Germany’s economic performance is driving euro-area growth,
increasing pressure on the  European Central Bank  to raise  interest rates  even as nations such as Greece, Portugal and
Ireland grapple with a debt crisis. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  surprised investors last week when he announced policy
makers may raise borrowing costs from a record low in April.  Weber indicated last month that the Bundesbank has raised
its 2011 growth forecast to 2.5 percent from 2 percent. The
German economy,  Europe ’s largest, expanded a record 3.6 percent
in 2010.  Economic ‘Fuel’  “With a pick-up in domestic investment and the
strengthening of the  U.S. economy , German industry should get
enough domestic and foreign fuel to continue running smoothly,”
said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels.  Domestic factory orders surged 4.5 percent from December
and foreign orders rose 1.6 percent, today’s report showed.
While orders dropped 3.6 percent in December, they rose 5.3
percent in November and 1.9 percent in October.  Business confidence jumped to a record high last month and
unemployment dropped to 7.3 percent, the lowest in almost two
decades.  “The exceptionally high level of confidence on the part of
German enterprises and households with regard to the future
indicates that domestic forces of growth will play a greater
role,” Weber said.  Inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in more than two
years in February after political unrest in North Africa and the
Middle East boosted  oil prices . Euro-area inflation is running
at 2.4 percent, in breach of the ECB’s 2 percent limit.  Trichet indicated last week that the ECB may raise its
benchmark rate by a quarter point to 1.25 percent next month to
ensure higher energy and food costs don’t fuel broader price
pressures.  Weber unexpectedly announced last month that he will step
down from the helm of the Bundesbank at the end of April, taking
himself out of the running to succeed Trichet later this year.  The Bundesbank said its profit dropped to 2.2 billion euros
($3.1 billion) in 2010 from 4.1 billion euros in 2009, mainly
due to increased risk provisioning of 1.6 billion euros.
Interest income fell to 6.2 billion euros from 7.6 billion euros
in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Zurich at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  