-- 
Weber Indicates ECB Might Increase Rates as Many as Three Times This Year

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-03-08T13:56:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/weber-signals-ecb-may-raise-rates-several-times-this-year.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council member Axel Weber said he doesn’t want to correct market
expectations for as many as three quarter-point increases in the
bank’s benchmark interest rate this year.  “I wouldn’t do anything here to try to correct market
expectations at this point,” Weber told Bloomberg News in
Frankfurt today when asked about investor bets that the ECB will
raise its key rate to 1.75 percent by year-end. It was the
intention of the ECB to bring forward market expectations and
“I see no reason at this stage to signal any dissent with how
markets priced future policies,” he said.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  took investors by
surprise last week when he announced policy makers may raise the
benchmark rate from a record low of 1 percent in April to combat
mounting inflation pressures. While Trichet said the step would
not necessarily be the start of a series of increases, Weber
said the bank is embarking on a “normalization” of rates from
crisis levels.  Inflation may be “more sustained and more fundamental”
than the ECB’s latest projections suggest, Weber said.  “There are a number of fundamentals in emerging markets, a
number of effects which worsen the medium to long-term inflation
outlook,” he said. “This has to be countered in a timely way.
I do see considerable future price pressures.”  Inflation Forecasts  The ECB last week predicted euro-area inflation will
average about 2.3 percent this year and 1.7 percent in 2012. It
aims to keep inflation just below 2 percent.  Crude  oil prices  rose to a 29-month high of close to $107 a
barrel yesterday as escalating violence in  Libya  renewed concern
that supply disruptions may spread through the Middle East and
North Africa.  “The forward market seems to price in a reduction in oil
prices toward around about $100,” Weber said. “I don’t fully
subscribe to this relatively optimistic view. There’s a genuine
underlying price pressure for energy and food.”  Policy makers are concerned about so-called second-round
effects, when companies increase prices and boost wages to
compensate for higher costs, entrenching faster inflation. While  Germany ’s economy,  Europe ’s largest, is booming, its euro-area
peers such as Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  are still grappling
with a debt crisis.  ‘Too Soon’    Nouriel Roubini , the economist who predicted the global
financial crisis, said in Dubai today that the ECB risks
undermining the recovery in some euro-area nations by increasing
borrowing costs “too soon.”  “My view of it is that the ECB is worrying too much about
inflation,” Roubini told reporters. “I don’t see any meaningful
risk of a second-round effect.”  Weber, who will step down from the helm of the Bundesbank
at the end of April, said the ECB “has done the right thing”
in sending “a clear signal that we’re not going to tolerate
inflation above our target.”  He said the ECB should also considering withdrawing its
emergency liquidity measures for banks “in the next few
months.”  The ECB last week extended the measures, which include
lending banks as much money as they need at its benchmark rate,
through the second quarter.  “With the health of financial markets improving, we have
to examine the full allotment mode,” Weber said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net  