-- 
Wenger Ready to Gamble on Van Persie, Fabregas Against Barcelona: Roundup

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-03-08T10:46:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/wenger-ready-to-gamble-on-van-persie-fabregas-against-barcelona-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Wenger Gamble  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  is poised for the “biggest
gamble of his career” by fielding  Robin van Persie  and Cesc Fabregas against Barcelona tonight,  the Sun  reported.    Van Persie  hurt his knee in the League Cup final defeat to
Birmingham, while Fabregas has been out with a strained
hamstring.  “I would like Van Persie to play but he has to be 100
percent. I will consider 99.5 percent,” Wenger said.  Barcelona hosts the Gunners in the second match of their
Champions League round-of-16 contest. Arsenal leads 2-1 from the
first leg.  Pep Unimpressed  Barcelona coach Pep Guardiola said Arsenal midfielder  Jack
Wilshere , 19, would be in the reserve team if he was a Barcelona
player, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  “He can be great player for Arsenal and  England , but we
have many types of player like him in the second team,”
Guardiola said.  Carragher Snubbed  Manchester United coaching staff refused Jamie Carragher
entry to their dressing-room when he tried to apologize for the
challenge that left Nani with a gashed leg, the  Daily Telegraph 
reported.  United’s staff was angry at the challenge, and at referee
Phil Dowd’s decision not to red-card the Liverpool defender. He
received a yellow card after the incident in his team’s 3-1 win
at Anfield.  Nani feels let down by United over its failure to complain
publicly about the tackle,  the Guardian  reported.  Elmander Targeted  Juventus is interested in signing Bolton striker Johan Elmander, who can leave on a free transfer at the end of the
season, the  Daily Mirror  reported.  Juve has sent “top spies” to watch the Swede in the last
two games, the newspaper added.  Bolton manager Owen Coyle isn’t concerned about losing
Elmander, his team’s top scorer, as he has other striking
options, the Mirror said.  Distin Contract  Everton is ready to offer French defender Sylvain Distin a
new contract at the end of the season as a reward for his
consistent performances, the  Daily Mail  said.  He’s entering the last 12 months of his current deal but
coach David Moyes wants to keep him longer.  “Sylvain has played all the games, he trains all the time
and that is a big thing,” Moyes said. “He has been an
excellent signing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London  at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 