-- 
Wheat Buying That Lifted Prices Eases After North Africa Built Stockpiles

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-03-08T12:11:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/wheat-boom-fades-as-surge-in-sales-to-north-africa-tapers-off-study-shows.html
A surge in wheat sales to North
Africa that contributed to prices doubling will ease because
stockpiles are now big enough to last until the harvest, said
the Home Grown Cereals Authority, the U.K. crop forecaster.    Algeria ,  Egypt ,  Libya , Morocco and  Tunisia  will import 22.3
million metric tons of wheat in the year through June, 18
percent of the global total, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates. Wheat prices rose until mid-February on accelerated
buying as those governments sought to boost stockpiles, before
falling again in recent weeks as purchases tapered off.  “They have sufficient stock levels right now to cover
their domestic needs,” said David Eudall, an analyst at the
Kenilworth, England-based HGCA, which is funded by farmers.
“There’s no reason for them to go out of their way to purchase
grain to replenish stock levels.”  Protests erupted across northern Africa and the Middle East
in the last several months, in part driven by a surge in food
prices that the  United Nations  says rose to a record in
February. Governments bought more grain to curb domestic prices
and quell rioting that toppled leaders in Tunisia and Egypt.  Chicago wheat climbed 14 percent between Dec. 31 and
Feb. 14, before sliding 13 percent in the following period.  Egypt is expected to buy about 10 million tons of wheat
this season, making it the world’s biggest importer, according
to the HGCA. Its import needs doubled in three decades. The
government’s  General Authority  for Supply Commodities bought
235,000 tons of U.S. and French wheat at a tender on Feb. 23.  Enough Wheat  The country probably has enough wheat to cover six months
of demand and “prolonged high levels of imports is therefore
unlikely,” the HGCA said in a report.  Wheat traded on the Euronext Liffe exchange in Paris more
than doubled from June to February.  Russia , once the world’s
second-biggest wheat exporter, halted shipments in August after
its worst drought in a half century ruined crops.  The price difference between May-delivery milling wheat in
the French capital and Chicago grain for delivery the same month
has narrowed to $34.78 a ton, after widening to as much as
$60.07 on Feb. 1.    France  shipped 111,060 tons of wheat to Algeria from Rouen,  Europe ’s biggest cereal-shipping hub, in the week to March 2,
port data show. That was the largest shipment in at least six
months. Algeria, the region’s second-biggest wheat buyer, bought
2.95 million tons of the grain from all origins from Dec. 16 to
Jan. 26, probably the most the country ever bought over five
weeks, the French crops office reported last month.  ‘Real Trigger’  “The high domestic food prices and obviously the civil
unrest that was partly being caused by that, that was the real
trigger,” Eudall said. “You’d have to expect that the
purchases start to slow down as we get closer to harvest in
mid-May.”  Wheat in North  Africa  is usually harvested in May and June,
according to Eudall. Crop conditions are “promising,” though
“good rains” are needed in March and April, he said.  North African grain consumption per capita is among the
highest in the developing world, according to the UN’s  Food and
Agriculture Organization . Egyptians eat 265 kilograms (584
pounds) of cereals a year, compared with 146 kilograms in  Nigeria  and 214 kilograms in  Indonesia , the data show.  In northern Africa, “a large proportion of what is being
consumed is being subsidized by the governments,” Eudall said.
“Whoever’s in charge of Egypt will have to feed the population
with subsidized flour.”  Egypt will import 36 percent of its grain requirements in
the 2010-11 season,  Morocco  will ship in 35 percent and Algeria
will ship in 49 percent of its cereal needs, the FAO says.  The amount of grain in storage may approach capacity limits
by the end of the 2010-11 season, the analyst said.  “In the next few months you’ll see purchases moving back
to the seasonal average,” Eudall said. “They’ll still keep to
the seasonal average to keep a lid on domestic prices and to
keep stocks high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  