-- 
Winter Storms Bring Moisture to Unusually Dry Kansas Wheat

-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-03-08T21:40:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/winter-storms-bring-moisture-to-unusually-dry-kansas-wheat-1-.html
Winter storms are dropping snow and
rain across  Kansas  as wheat crops are emerging from dormancy,
providing moisture that may alleviate months of dryness and
boost grain yields.  Storm warnings and weather advisories covered western
Kansas, where as much as 9 inches (22.8 centimeters) of snow was
expected, and rain fell across the eastern portion of the state,
the  National Weather Service  said. Much of Kansas, the biggest
U.S. producer of winter wheat, has been drier than usual in the
past 90 days, with some areas receiving less than half of the
normal precipitation, according to forecasters.  “We’ve got more and more of our wheat country looking
better because of the weather,” said  Tom Leffler , the owner of
Leffler Commodities LLC in Augusta, Kansas. “Some of the late-
planted stuff is looking better, and some of the stuff that
hadn’t come up yet has started coming up in places.”  Only 25 percent of the winter wheat in Kansas was in good
or excellent condition last week, unchanged from a week earlier,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said yesterday. Parts of the
state, as well as areas of Oklahoma, Colorado and Texas, were
experiencing “severe”  drought  as of March 1, according to the
U.S. Drought Monitor at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln.  Wheat futures for May delivery fell 21 cents, or 2.6
percent, to settle at $7.7975 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. Earlier, the price touched $7.7825, the
lowest since Feb. 24. The most-active contract has gained 58
percent in the past year as drought slashed output in  Russia  and
floods eroded crops in  Canada  and  Australia .  ‘Critical’ Moisture  Winter wheat is sown in the U.S. central and southern
Plains and Midwest from September to early November. The plants
go dormant until March, and crops are harvested from June to
August.  Timely rains are “critical” as plants “wake up from a
winter’s nap,” said Bill Spiegel, a spokesman at  Kansas Wheat ,
a cooperative between the Kansas Wheat Commission and the Kansas
Association of Wheat Growers.  “When it begins to green up, it needs moisture to really
get going,” Spiegel said from  Manhattan , Kansas. “And now is
one of the most critical times of need for that moisture. So,
between now and April 1, any moisture we get will be critical
for the future of the crop.”  Fields will get a dose of moisture followed by sunshine and
warmth, said  Allen Motew , a meteorologist at QT Weather in  Chicago . After the snow and rain pass, temperatures will begin
to rise, and there won’t be a threat from a hard freeze in the
next few weeks, he said.  “Generally, that is going to bring it out of dormancy
nicely,” Motew said.  Temperatures will reach about 65 degrees Fahrenheit (18
Celsius) in central Kansas by this weekend, said Vanessa Pearce,
a weather-service meteorologist in  Wichita, Kansas . The next
chance for rain will be early next week, she said.  “It is definitely good, especially with how dry things
were in the fall,” Pearce said. “Any rain is appreciated.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 