-- 
Woman Tied to ‘Jihad Jane’ Terrorism Plot Pleads Guilty

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-03-08T21:57:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/woman-tied-to-jihad-jane-terrorism-plot-pleads-guilty.html
A woman tied to the “Jihad Jane”
terror plot changed her plea to guilty on charges she conspired
to support and train terrorists.  Jamie Paulin Ramirez, a former Colorado resident, entered
her change of plea today in federal court in Philadelphia. She
pleaded not guilty in April to helping Colleen LaRose, also
known as Jihad Jane, plan to support terrorists.  Ramirez, 32, wore a traditional head scarf known as a
khimar or hijab, which Muslims believe is mandated by Allah to
show women’s modesty, during the hearing today in Philadelphia.
She answered yes to a series of questions posed by U.S. District
Judge Petrese B. Tucker including whether she was guilty.  “She’s a deeply spiritual woman who is a Muslim,”
Ramirez’s defense attorney Jeremy Ibrahim said after the
hearing.  Ramirez, who has been in custody since her arrest in April,
allegedly conspired with LaRose and others to obtain military-
style training in  South Asia  and then traveled to  Europe  to
participate in a violent jihad, prosecutors said today in court
documents filed with Ramirez’s change of plea.  LaRose and Ramirez exchanged e-mail messages in August 2009
when Ramirez accepted an invitation to a training camp in
Europe. Ramirez then traveled to Ireland on Sept. 12, 2009, with
her 6-year-old son and married an unidentified co-conspirator in
a religious ceremony the next day, prosecutors said.  LaRose Guilty Plea  Ramirez’s change of plea comes a month after LaRose, of
Pennsburg,  Pennsylvania , pleaded guilty to charges she plotted
to recruit terrorists and murder a Swedish cartoonist. LaRose,
who was arrested in October 2009, worked with others to recruit
men and women on the Internet, prosecutors said. She used online
user names to publish jihadist literature and videos and raise
money for terrorists, according to court documents.  LaRose was tied to a group plotting to murder Lars Vilks, a
Swedish cartoonist who drew the  Prophet Muhammad  with a dog’s
body in 2007.  Ramirez faces a maximum sentence of 15 years in prison. She
was ordered to undergo a mental evaluation. A sentencing date
hasn’t been set for either Ramirez or LaRose.  The case is U.S. v. LaRose, 10-cr-00123, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in U.S. District Court in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 