-- 
Women’s Share of Top Private-Company Jobs Falls, Study Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-03-08T00:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/women-s-share-of-top-private-company-jobs-falls-study-shows.html
Women held a smaller share of senior
posts at privately held businesses in the past year as
companies’ rebound from the recession outpaced their willingness
to overhaul management, Grant Thornton International Ltd. said.  Women accounted for 20 percent of leadership positions at
closely held companies, down from 24 percent a year earlier, the
London-based consulting firm said today in a summary of a 39-
nation study compiled in the four months through February.  Thailand  had the highest share of female senior management at 45
percent, while  India , the  United Arab Emirates  and Japan had the
lowest, at fewer than 10 percent.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said on March 5 that
discussions will be held with the country’s largest companies
“in the near future” to increase the share of women in
management positions. A U.K. government advisory panel called in
February for investors to push companies to double the
proportion of women on their boards. The global economy probably
grew by 3.9 percent in 2010 following a contraction in 2009,
according to World Bank estimates.  The recession should have been “a catalyst for
organizations to review how they run their operations and who
runs them,” April Mackenzie, a spokeswoman at  Grant Thornton ,
said in an e-mailed response to questions. “Instead of
embracing a time for change, many companies will have reverted
to a ‘play it safe’ mentality which has left many companies
male-dominated.”  Senior management was defined as including executive-board
positions as well as the titles of partner and director. Women
in the Group of Seven, the world’s largest economies, held 16
percent of such jobs, less than the 20 percent global average,
according to the study  Thailand Leads  Worldwide, 8 percent of companies with women in senior
managerial positions have a female chief executive officer, led
by 30 percent of businesses in Thailand, 19 percent in mainland  China  and 18 percent in  Vietnam , Grant Thornton said. The share
of privately held business that employ no women in senior
management rose to 38 percent in the survey period from
35 percent a year earlier, it said.  “While the proportion of women in senior roles has not
dipped since 2004, it has not shown any significant sign of
growth,” Mackenzie said. “Many organizations do not allow for
much flexibility in their approach to working mothers.”  Women in parts of  Asia  had more success than elsewhere in
reaching the top ranks of private companies because they often
have networks of relatives or other low-cost access to child
care, enabling them to “take advantage of family support when
raising children.”  The study on women’s roles, part of the Grant Thornton
International Business Review company-strategy report, is based
on a survey of more than 7,000 respondents, the consulting
company said. Research focused on the privately held businesses
that are Grant Thornton’s target market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in  Frankfurt  at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  