-- 
Yuan Declines After Commerce Minister Rejects Calls for Gains

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-03-08T09:12:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/yuan-declines-after-commerce-minister-rejects-calls-for-gains.html
  China ’s yuan fell the most in two
weeks after Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  rejected calls for
faster appreciation that countries including the U.S. say would
help remedy global trade imbalances.  The central bank set the  reference rate  for yuan trading
weaker for the first time in four days. It is “totally
unreasonable” to say the yuan is undervalued and China does not
use its exchange rate to gain a competitive advantage, Chen said
yesterday at the National People’s Congress. U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  reiterated last week that the
Chinese currency is “substantially undervalued.”  “The government just likes to show there’s a two-way trade
on the yuan,” said  David Cohen , head of Asian forecasting at
Action Economics in  Singapore . “But if you step back from the
picture, you’ll still see there’s an appreciating trend, but the
Chinese like to do it at their own pace.”  The yuan dropped 0.08 percent to close at 6.5684 per dollar
in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. That’s the biggest drop since Feb. 22. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards slid 0.11 percent to 6.4145, reflecting
bets the currency will strengthen 2.4 percent in a year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The People’s Bank of China set the reference rate 0.05
percent weaker at 6.5687 per dollar. The currency is allowed to
trade up to 0.5 percent on either side of the official rate.  The yuan will appreciate gradually over the long term, Chen
said, adding that basic stability in the currency aids the
global recovery. China, the world’s second-biggest economy,
doesn’t seek a large excess of exports over imports, the
official said.  China is “committed” to moving to a market-determined,
flexible  exchange rate  and understands the importance of
allowing the yuan to appreciate, the International Monetary
Fund’s Zhu Min said yesterday. “The only question remaining is
the speed,” Zhu, a special adviser to the IMF, said at a
conference in Arlington, Virginia.  --Sonja Cheung, Fion Li. Editors: James Regan, Dirk Beveridge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonja Cheung in Beijing at 
 scheung58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  