-- 
Zimbabwean Leaders Tsvangirai, Mugabe Agree on Need for Election ‘Roadmap’

-- B y   N e l s o n   G o r e   B a n y a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-03-08T13:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-03-08/zimbabwean-leaders-tsvangirai-mugabe-agree-on-need-for-election-roadmap-.html
  Zimbabwe ’s Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai said he, President Robert Mugabe and regional
governments agree that there should be a “clear roadmap” for
free and fair elections in the country.  “There is no need for fear of being ambushed” by an
election that isn’t in line with a  Southern African Development
Community -brokered political agreement, Tsvangirai said at an
investment conference today in Harare, the capital.  Mugabe had threatened to take his  Zimbabwe African National
Union-Patriotic Front  party into elections this year even if
Zimbabweans haven’t approved a new constitution. The 87-year-old
leader subsequently softened his stance, while the Harare-based
 Newsday  newspaper reported today that he had ordered police to
allow Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change to hold
rallies and meetings.  The two parties were forced into a coalition government in
February 2009 after violence-marred elections. Under that
agreement new elections can’t be held until all Zimbabweans have
voted on a new constitution.  A decade of political instability during which Zanu-PF was
repeatedly accused of murder, rape and violence directed at
MDC supporters, led to the southern African nation’s near
economic collapse as inflation hit 500 billion percent. Zimbabwe
subsequently abandoned the Zimbabwe dollar and now uses mainly  U.S. dollar  and South African rand.  Massive Investment  Zimbabwe’s finance minister,  Tendai Biti , who is also
secretary general of the  MDC , said the country would continue to
use “the multi-currency system.”  “We’re looking to increase our per capita income levels
from between $300 and $500 to between $800 and $1,000 in the
next three years,” Biti said at the same conference today.  Increasing per capita income will require a “massive
investment in education and health,” the finance minister said.
Zimbabwe’s literacy rate, at 92 percent, is the highest in  Africa , according to the  United Nations .  The country’s new Indigenization and Empowerment Act won’t
lead to companies being expropriated or nationalization, Biti
said.  “There’s nothing wrong with the law on indigenization,”
he said. “It doesn’t say there’ll be nationalization. It’s not
a law which allows expropriation. We will respect our laws.”  Concerns about the law is keeping potential investors away,
Susan Page, U.S. deputy assistant secretary for African Affairs,
said on March 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nelson Gore Banya in Johannesburg at 
 ngbanya@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  