-- Abercrombie Jumps After Boosting Share Buyback Plan
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-08-15T20:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/abercrombie-jumps-after-boosting-share-buyback-plan.html
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF) , the teen
retailer, rose the most in six months after authorizing
additional share buybacks and reporting second-quarter profit
that topped the company’s preliminary report earlier this month.  The shares advanced 9 percent to $35.23 at the close in New
York, the biggest one-day gain since Feb. 6. The  New Albany ,
Ohio-based company today reported profit excluding some items of
19 cents a share, 1 cent higher than its Aug. 1 forecast. The
stock, which tumbled 15 percent on Aug. 2, had the biggest jump
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Abercrombie, which got 25 percent of its sales abroad last
year, has faced declining comparable-store sales amid a tepid
economic environment and an overseas expansion that has
cannibalized its own business in some areas. The company boosted
its buyback authorization by 10 million shares to 22.9 million
and said in a statement today that it will be “disciplined and
judicious” with shareholder capital.  “Fundamental deterioration and ongoing risk to operational
performance is balanced by re-engineering of the balance sheet
and share repurchases,” Stephanie Wissink, an analyst at
Minneapolis-based Piper Jaffray Cos., wrote in a note today. The
buybacks may boost fiscal 2014 profit by as much as 25 cents a
share, wrote Wissink, who rates the shares neutral.  Net income in the second quarter fell 52 percent to $15.5
million, or 19 cents a share, from $32 million, or 35 cents, a
year earlier, the company said. Analysts had estimated 17 cents
on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
reiterated its fiscal 2013 profit forecast of $2.50 to $2.75 a
share, which it cut earlier this month from a prior projection
of $3.50 to $3.75 based on lower sales.  International Retreat  Abercrombie’s comparable-store sales fell 10 percent in the
quarter, the company said in the statement. Sales are expected
to drop 10 percent in the second half of the year, according to
the retailer.  The company has said it’s paring back international
expansion plans and now expects to open 30 Hollister stores
outside of the U.S. in fiscal 2012, down from about 40, and is
freezing commitments to new flagship stores outside of its
planned Shanghai location.  “Setting aside our future store opening plans, we are very
focused on improving the performance of our existing stores,”
Chief Executive Officer Mike Jeffries said on a conference call
with analysts today. “We remain very cautious about the
macroeconomic environment, but we are hopeful that with our
comparable sales for the past few weeks running a little above
our second quarter trend, we are beginning to see at least
stabilization in the trend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  