-- Aboitiz Power to Spend $2.85 Billion to Expand Plant Portfolio
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-08-15T06:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/aboitiz-power-to-spend-2-85-billion-to-expand-plant-portfolio.html
Aboitiz Power Corp. (AP) , the
 Philippines ’ third-largest utility, will spend 120 billion pesos
($2.85 billion) over the next three years to boost generating
capacity to combat power shortfalls in some parts of the
country.  Aboitiz will partner with other companies to build plants
with capacity of about 1,350 megawatts. It will directly own 700
megawatts, increasing its portfolio by 30 percent to 3,050
megawatts, President Erramon Aboitiz said in an interview. It
also plans to bid for power assets to be sold by the government,
he said.  The southern Philippine island of Mindanao has been
experiencing power outages and the region relies heavily on
hydroelectric plants. The deficit in Mindanao ranges from
between 50 megawatts and 300 megawatts a day, according to a
Department of Energy circular in March.  “There’s a lot of opportunity for us,” Aboitiz said of
Mindanao, where the company is building a 300-megawatt coal-
fired power plant.  “No new major capacity has been built for
quite some time and you have the overall dependence on hydro. We
felt that it was important to rectify the balance by building
coal.”  Aboitiz plans to bid for several state power plants with
combined capacity of more than 1,400 megawatts, he said. The
Philippines has sold most of its power assets to cut debt and
get out of the capital-intensive industry.  Profit at the company rose 20 percent to 6.58 billion pesos
in the second quarter, the biggest percentage growth in more
than a year, according to Bloomberg data. Earnings will likely
be less volatile as the company sells less to the  spot market  in
favor of long-term supply contracts, Aboitiz said.  Aboitiz Power has risen 16 percent this year against the
Philippine benchmark stock index’s 20 percent advance. It was up
0.3 percent as of the noon break in  Manila .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  