-- Aging Justices Give New Life to High Court as Campaign Issue
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/aging-justices-give-new-life-to-high-court-as-campaign-issue.html
The next U.S. president may make as
much of a mark on the U.S. Supreme Court as on the economic
issues that are dominating the campaign.  Four of the court’s nine justices will be at least 74 years
old on Inauguration Day in January -- the first time that will
have occurred in 28 years. Their ages suggest that one or more
may be off the bench within the next four years, letting either
 Barack Obama  or Mitt Romney appoint a successor and leave a
decades-long legal imprint.  A new justice would join a court now split almost evenly on
questions involving race, religion, gun rights, campaign finance
and federal power. Obama last week put new emphasis on the court
as part of his bid to win over women voters, pointing to his
appointment of two female justices during his term in office.  “The next president could tip the balance of the court in
a way that turns back the clock for women and families for
decades to come,” the president told a mostly female audience
on Aug. 8 in Denver. “The choice between going backward and
moving forward has never been so clear.”  The impact of a vacancy will depend as much on who leaves
the court as who nominates the replacement. The departure of a
Republican-appointed justice, such as  Antonin Scalia  or  Anthony Kennedy , both 76, would give a re-elected Obama more power to
shift the court’s balance than the retirement of a Democratic
appointee, such as 79-year-old  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  or  Stephen Breyer , who turns 74 today.  Gun Rights  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, has suggested an
Obama victory in November would mean a rollback of the
constitutional gun rights the  high court  backed in 5-4 rulings
in 2008 and 2010. The presumptive Republican presidential
nominee told a National Rifle Association conference in April
that Obama “would remake” the court in a second term.  “Our freedoms would be in the hands of an Obama court,”
he said. “Not just for four years, but for the next 40.”  Even so, Romney hasn’t made the court a central issue in
his bid for the White House, training his sights instead on the
nation’s 8.3 percent  unemployment rate .  The Obama campaign, by contrast, is using advertisements to
highlight Romney’s opposition to Roe v. Wade, the landmark 1973
decision that guaranteed abortion rights nationwide. Two ads
attacking Romney on the issue have aired more than 18,000 times,
according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks
advertising.  Abortion Split  The justices are sharply divided on abortion. In 2007, the
court voted 5-4 to uphold a federal ban on a procedure opponents
dubbed “partial-birth” abortion.  “The court right now is so very closely divided that I
think it’s inevitable that whoever wins the presidency is going
to have a major impact on the direction of the court,” said
Caroline Fredrickson, president of the American Constitution
Society, a network of progressive lawyers and law students.  The court underscored its own significance -- and the power
of a single justice -- with its 5-4 decision in June to uphold
Obama’s signature health-care law.  None of the justices has given any indication of
contemplating imminent retirement. Ginsburg, a two-time cancer
survivor, has said she wants to match the longevity of Justice
Louis Brandeis, who was 82 when he stepped down in 1939. Should
she retire at the same age, Ginsburg would create an opening for
Obama in 2015 if he is re-elected.  Ginsburg Departure  Ginsburg may prefer to depart while Obama is in office. An
advocate for  women’s rights  who hugs Obama each year at his
 State of the Union  Address, Ginsburg was one of two justices to
back the entirety of his health-care law in June.  Scalia, the court’s longest-serving member, anchors its
conservative wing, opposing constitutional protections for
abortion and gay sex while backing gun rights and corporate
campaign spending.  Kennedy is the court’s most frequent swing vote, dictating
the outcome in cases involving the death penalty, racial
preferences and the environment. Breyer generally votes with the
court’s liberal wing on those issues.  Obama’s list of potential nominees may include Merrick Garland, a federal appellate judge in Washington whom the
president considered when he appointed  Sonia Sotomayor  in 2009
and Elena Kagan in 2010. At the same time, Obama might feel
compelled to appoint a third woman should Ginsburg step down.  Prospective female candidates include Illinois Attorney
General Lisa Madigan and California Attorney General  Kamala
Harris , according to  Tom Goldstein , whose  Scotusblog  website
tracks the court. The blog is sponsored by Bloomberg Law.  Romney’s List  For Romney, the list almost certainly would start with  Paul Clement , who unsuccessfully argued the cases against the health-
care law and in support of Arizona’s illegal-immigrant crackdown
this year. Clement, a former Scalia law clerk, served as
President  George W. Bush ’s top Supreme Court lawyer.  Clement “has to be number one” on Romney’s list, said
Curt Levey, executive director of the Washington-based Committee
for Justice, which generally aligns with Republicans on judicial
appointments.  Other possibilities for Romney include federal appeals
court judges Diane Sykes of Milwaukee and Neil Gorsuch of
Denver; Michael McConnell, a former federal appellate judge who
teaches at Stanford Law School in California; and former
Assistant Attorney General  Viet Dinh , Clement’s law partner and
a News Corp. independent director overseeing the company’s
cooperation with authorities investigating its phone-hacking
scandal.  Health Vote Looms  The health-care case -- and the vote of Chief Justice  John Roberts  -- will hover over any Romney nomination. Roberts
disappointed conservatives by joining the court’s four
Democratic appointees to uphold the law.  CBS News , citing
unnamed people, reported that he switched sides during the
court’s internal deliberations after originally voting to strike
down the core of the law.  When Bush appointed him in 2005, Roberts had longstanding
Republican connections, including a stint in President  Ronald Reagan ’s  Justice Department . At the same time, he had served for
only two years as a federal appeals court judge, a span that
Levey now says might have been insufficient to gauge his
judicial philosophy.  “Maybe we’ve gone too far with the stealth candidate,”
Levey said. “I think you’re going to need something more.”  The second-guessing of the Roberts nomination will only
exacerbate the partisan polarization that surrounds judicial
nominations, says Christopher Eisgruber, the provost of
 Princeton University  in New Jersey and the author of a  book  on
the Supreme Court appointment process.  It will intensify “what is already a stunningly intense
focus on the nominee’s ideology,” said Eisgruber, who was a law
clerk for the now-retired Justice  John Paul Stevens .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  