-- Agrium Cuts Retail Unit Value 38% as Jana Pushes Spinoff
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-08-15T22:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/agrium-cuts-retail-unit-value-38-as-jana-pushes-spinoff.html
Agrium Inc. (AGU)  cut its estimate of the
value of its farm-supply retail unit by at least 38 percent the
same day that hedge fund Jana Partners LLC went public with a
proposal to spin off the division.  The Calgary-based fertilizer producer told research
analysts that the retail unit, if separated, might trade at less
than eight times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, according to Paul Chapman, an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets. In June 2011, Agrium Chief Executive Officer
 Michael Wilson  said the retail unit was worth 11 times Ebitda or
more.  “The company appears to be changing their messaging from
previous statements made with regards to the value of retail,
becoming more conservative on the back of recent events,”
Chapman said in a research note yesterday.  Agrium and Jana officials met in the activist hedge fund’s
 New York  offices today to discuss Jana’s proposals, they said in
separate statements.  Barry Rosenstein , who runs Jana, said in
his statement that Jana would continue to push for its
proposals. Agrium said it has no plans to change course on the
retail unit.  Agrium made the change in presentations sent to research
analysts yesterday, said two people with knowledge of the
situation. That’s the same day Jana disclosed that it took a 4.1
percent stake in the fertilizer producer. In the presentations,
Agrium cited valuations of six publicly traded companies to
measure the unit’s value -- different companies than the five
Wilson used in 2011, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the matter is private.  Agrium Peers  The six companies Agrium cited as peers yesterday were
Brenntag AG, Beacon Roofing Supply Inc.,  Airgas Inc. (ARG) , MRC Global
Inc.,  Metals USA Holdings Corp. (MUSA)  and Reliance Steel & Aluminum
Co., said the people. Those companies trade at a median multiple
of 9 times the last 12 months’ Ebitda, and 8 times 2012 Ebitda
as estimated by analysts, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The five companies Wilson cited in his  2011 presentation 
were  Tractor Supply (TSCO)  Co.,  Watsco Inc. (WSO) , Wesco International Inc.,
 W.W. Grainger Inc. (GWW)  and Genuine Parts Co. Those companies trade
at about 11 times trailing Ebitda and 10 times this year’s
Ebitda, the data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Tractor Supply, whose business model Wilson said last year
was “close” to that of Agrium’s retail unit, trades at about
12 times trailing Ebitda and 12 times 2012 Ebitda, the data
show.  ‘Today’s Market’  Based on the Agrium retail unit’s $921 million in Ebitda
over the past 12 months, it would be worth about $10 billion
using Agrium’s old list of peers, and about $8 billion using the
new list.  Agrium said in a statement today that the comparisons it
made a year ago have “little to do with how retail would trade
in today’s market as a separate public company.” The company
added that its bankers at Morgan Stanley recently “provided
additional information on an appropriate peer group.”  “Agrium seems to be talking down the value of the retail
business, even as it moves to expand it,” said  Mark Connelly  of
Credit Agricole Securities USA Inc. in a research note
yesterday.  The stock rose 2 percent today to $98.78 as of 4 p.m. New
York time, the highest level since July 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  