-- Malaysia Growth Withstands Global Risks on Spending Boost
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-08-16T02:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/malaysia-growth-withstands-global-risks-as-najib-boosts-spending.html
Malaysia ’s economic expansion
unexpectedly accelerated as construction and consumption climbed,
easing pressure on the central bank to join its Asian
counterparts in cutting  interest rates  to shore up growth.  Gross domestic product  rose 5.4 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, after expanding a revised 4.9
percent in the previous quarter,  Bank Negara Malaysia  said in a
statement in Kuala Lumpur yesterday. The median of 23 estimates
in a Bloomberg News  survey  was for a 4.6 percent expansion.  Prime Minister Najib Razak’s increased spending ahead of a
general election that must be called by early 2013 has bolstered
 Southeast Asia ’s third-largest economy, allowing the central
bank to keep rates unchanged for more than a year. Growth in
2012 may be at the upper end of the 4 percent-to-5 percent
forecast range even as risks from  Europe  and the U.S. remain,
 Bank Negara  said.  “Malaysia is in a sweet spot at the moment,” said Lim Su Sian, an economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Singapore . “While
it’s inevitable we will see the global weakness start to filter
through and investment might lose some of its momentum, there’s
a lot of underlying support from the government and economic
transformation programs. This strong number cements our view
there won’t be a rate change this year.”  Higher Forecasts  Economists at CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. and Bank of America
Corp. raised their forecasts for Malaysia’s growth this year
after the second-quarter GDP figures were released. CIMB raised
its prediction to 5 percent from 3.8 percent previously, while
Bank of America now expects the economy to expand 4.7 percent in
2012 from 4.2 percent earlier.  The ringgit has strengthened about 1.5 percent this
quarter, the biggest gainer among  Asia ’s 11 most-traded
currencies. It rose 0.1 percent to 3.1298 per dollar as of 9:56
a.m. in Kuala Lumpur, after climbing as much as 0.4 percent
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark
FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index fell 0.1 percent to 1,652.15
after closing at a record yesterday.  “The strong support provided by domestic demand,
underpinned by activities in both the private and public sectors
have ensured higher growth amidst the challenging global
environment,” the central bank said. “This trend is expected
to be sustained going forward, although downside risks emanating
from external developments remain.”  Bigger Budget  Najib has raised civil servant salaries and pensions,
waived school fees and increased handouts for the poor under a
232.8 billion-ringgit ($74 billion) budget this year as he works
to boost support for his ruling coalition. In June, the
government proposed to expand the annual allocation by 13.4
billion ringgit.  Services rose 6.3 percent in the April-to-June period from
a year earlier after climbing 5.3 percent in the first three
months of 2012, the report showed. Construction rose 22.2
percent last quarter, quickening from a 15.5 percent pace the
previous period.  MTD ACPI Engineering Bhd. (ACP) , a maker and supplier of precast
concrete products, and construction and property group  Sunway
Bhd. (SWB)  have won contracts for a mass railway project in the
capital. The first line, estimated to cost 30 billion ringgit,
is scheduled to be operational by July 2017.  The central bank said yesterday its benchmark overnight
policy rate at 3 percent continues to support growth while
minimizing the risks of financial imbalances. It has kept rates
steady for seven straight meetings.  Supportive Rate  “At the prevailing level of the overnight policy rate,
monetary conditions continue to be supportive of economic
activity,” Bank Negara  said .  While domestic demand is expected by the central bank to
remain resilient, Malaysia’s economy still faces threats from
weakening global demand. Bank Negara said the global recovery
faces downside risks amid policy uncertainty over the European
sovereign-debt crisis and fiscal woes in the U.S.  The central bank can adjust the degree of accommodation if
the global economy weakens, Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz told
reporters in  Kuala Lumpur  yesterday. The risk of slowing growth
is bigger than that of accelerating inflation, she said.
Consumer prices rose at the slowest pace in more than two years
in July, a separate report yesterday showed.  “Given that there is excess capacity in our economy, the
strength of domestic demand is not expected to exert
inflationary pressure,” Zeti said. “Upside risks to inflation
however could emerge should global supply disruptions occur and
result in higher energy or commodity prices.”  Moderate Inflation  She also said emphasis will be placed on ensuring that
monetary policy will remain appropriate to avoid the build-up of
financial imbalances. Inflation will remain moderate for the
rest of 2012, Zeti said.  China reported its slowest growth in three years last
quarter, while Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said in
July Asia’s fourth-largest economy is losing steam faster than
expected.  Bank Negara  unveiled  a framework for so-called agent
banking yesterday, which will allow financial institutions to
reach out to consumers in rural areas through the use of non-
bank retail outlets.  “Authorized banking agents will provide basic banking
services of accepting deposits and facilitating withdrawals,”
it said. “Other basic banking services that can be provided by
the agents are fund transfers, bill payments and financing
repayments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  