-- Malaysia’s Ringgit Declines Ahead of Economic Data
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-08-15T05:22:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/malaysia-s-ringgit-declines-ahead-of-economic-data-correct-.html
(Corrects first paragraph to show  Malaysia ’s inflation
rate is forecast to stay at the lowest level in two years and
time of GDP data release in second paragraph.)  Malaysia’s ringgit fell before data
forecast to show Southeast Asia’s third-largest economy grew at
the slowest pace in a year and inflation held at a two-year low.  Gross domestic product  increased 4.6 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, compared with 4.7 percent in the
previous three months, according to median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before an official report
due at 5 p.m. local time. Consumer prices rose 1.6 percent in
July, unchanged from June, a separate survey showed.  “People are reluctant to take heavy positions ahead of the
GDP data, which could signal downside risk to growth,” said
Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at  Malayan
Banking Bhd. (MAY)  in  Singapore . “The Malaysian currency will likely
trade in a tight range this week against the dollar.”  The ringgit declined 0.1 percent to 3.1226 per dollar as of
8:56 a.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-
rate swings used to price options, dropped 10 basis points, or
0.1 percentage point, to 6.22 percent, the lowest since July 18.  The currency will be cushioned against external weakness by
Malaysia’s current-account surplus, Credit Agricole CIB said in
a report today. The surplus as a percentage of GDP is the
second-largest in Asia, according to the report.  Five-year  government bonds  declined yesterday after the
treasury sold 4 billion ringgit ($1.3 billion) of the debt at an
average yield of 3.27 percent. The yield on the 3.314 percent
notes due October 2017 surged eight basis points to 3.32
percent, the highest level since May 10, according to Bursa
Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 