-- Aluminum Premiums Set to Extend Gains as Buyers Await Metal
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-08-15T10:02:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/aluminum-premiums-set-to-extend-gains-as-buyers-wait-for-metal.html
Premiums paid for aluminum in  Europe 
and  North America  are set to extend gains to records in 12
months as financing transactions tying up inventories keep
buyers waiting as long as a year for deliveries.  The fee in Rotterdam, excluding duties, will rise 17
percent to about $240 a metric ton on top of the price of
aluminum for immediate delivery on the  London  Metal Exchange,
according to the median estimate of 11 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The U.S. Midwest premium will climb
20 percent to about 13 cents a pound ($287 a ton).  “Metal has been withdrawn from the physical market into
warehouse financing,” said Lloyd O’Carroll, an analyst at
Davenport & Co. in Richmond,  Virginia , who has tracked the
market for three decades. “We should expect more metal to go
into warehouse financing.”  Fees doubled in Europe this year to $200 to $210 a ton and
jumped 45 percent in the U.S. to 10.8 cents a pound, both
records, according to Platts, a unit of McGraw-Hill Cos. As much
as 75 percent of inventories monitored by the LME are tied up in
financing transactions, Citigroup Inc. estimates.  Detroit, Vlissingen  Withdrawing the lightweight metal from  Detroit , the biggest
aluminum inventory, may take as long as 49 weeks and the waiting
time in the Dutch port of Vlissingen may be as long as 56 weeks,
Bloomberg calculations show. The two locations account for 52
percent of the 4.89 million tons of aluminum in LME-monitored
warehouses.  The LME revised its delivery rules in April, doubling so-
called load-out rates to 3,000 tons a day for warehouse
companies storing more than 900,000 tons at a single location.
The exchange has reconvened a steering committee before a six-
month review of the daily rates.  “The LME has failed to date to resolve the warehousing
issue,” said Nick Madden, senior vice president and supply-
chain officer at Atlanta-based Novelis Inc., which processes
about 3 million tons of aluminum a year. “The existence of long
queues permits the warehouse owners to offer ever-increasing
incentives to primary producers, and this continues to put
upward pressure on premia.”  Aluminum for three-month delivery fell 0.5 percent to
$1,846.25 a ton by 10:50 a.m. on the LME. Prices are down 8.6
percent this year. Supply will outpace demand by 370,000 tons in
2012, Morgan Stanley estimates.  Market Contango  A financing transaction involves a simultaneous purchase of
metal for nearby delivery and a forward sale to take advantage
of a market in contango, when contracts with later delivery
dates trade at higher prices than nearer-dated metal. Low
 interest rates  help make the accords profitable.  Aluminum for delivery in 15 months, or November 2013,
closed yesterday at $1,962 a ton on the LME, $100.50 a ton more
expensive than the three-month contract.  “There is still a reasonable contango to make money,”
said  David Wilson , an analyst at Citigroup in London. “Interest
rates are pretty much zero.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net 
Maria Kolesnikova at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  