-- AMR’s American Denied Court Leave to Toss Pilot Contract
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-08-16T13:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/american-denied-court-approval-to-toss-pilot-contract-1-.html
AMR (AAMRQ)  Corp.’s  American Airlines  was
denied approval from a federal bankruptcy judge to cancel its
pilot contract and impose cost reductions after the union
refused to accept concessions.  AMR didn’t prove that a successful reorganization depended
on being able to end restrictions on domestic airline-marketing
accords and pilot furloughs, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane in
 Manhattan  said yesterday. AMR pared those demands in later talks
with pilots and said it will propose the changes and submit a
new request to Lane by tomorrow.  Contract talks between management and the union for
American’s pilots began in 2006 and dragged past AMR’s Nov. 29
bankruptcy filing. The narrowness of the points raised by Lane
means that the  Allied Pilots Association  can’t claim victory,
said  Ray Neidl , a Maxim Group LLC analyst in  New York .  “It sounds like the judge wanted some modifications made
and that American can still achieve the goals they are looking
for,” Neidl said in an interview. “But nobody should be
celebrating. They still have to negotiate a contract after
this.”  AMR will impose new cost-saving contract terms once it
secures Lane’s approval, General Counsel Gary Kennedy said. The
 Fort Worth , Texas-based company said it hopes the judge will set
a hearing within 14 days and rule shortly afterward.  “We think it’s a relatively easy fix,” Kennedy said on a
conference call. Kennedy said Lane “agreed on virtually
everything” in AMR’s motion to void its pilot contract except
for points related to furloughs and so-called code-sharing.  Marketing Agreements  Furloughed workers are those who have been laid off and are
offered their jobs back before new employees are hired. Code-
sharing is the industry practice of agreements between airlines
to put each other’s codes on flights and book passengers on
those planes.  “The court concludes that American’s proposed changes to
furlough and code-sharing have not been justified,” Lane said
in his opinion. “Given the significance of these two provisions
collectively to American’s proposal, the court finds that
American has not shown that the proposal is necessary as
required.”  APA members on Aug. 8 rejected a sweetened offer that would
have eliminated furloughs and given them a 13.5 percent stake in
AMR after it emerged from court protection. Even if Lane
eventually allows AMR to void the pilots’ current contract, the
company still would have to negotiate a long-term deal.  Kennedy said the airline prefers to do that in bankruptcy,
though there is no legal requirement for it to do so.  Flight Attendants  The labor spotlight at the third-largest U.S. airline now
shifts to flight attendants, who finish voting on Aug. 19 on
what American describes as its final contract offer.  Members of the  Association of Professional Flight
Attendants  shouldn’t assume that Lane would prevent the voiding
of their current labor agreement if they reject the latest plan,
said Denise Lynn, senior vice president, people. The issues Lane
raised in yesterday’s ruling are specific to pilots, she said.  “We will be doing what we can to make sure employees
across the company understand the nature of Judge Lane’s ruling
as clearly as possible,” Lynn said. “We’ll be paying close
attention to it and making sure we’re doing what we need to do
to make sure we get accurate information to the flight
attendants.”  Members of the Transport Workers Union, American’s other
major union, have already ratified new contracts that include
givebacks.  US Airways  The TWU, APA and APFA have also all reached tentative labor
accords with potential suitor  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  as the
Tempe, Arizona-based carrier studies a takeover attempt. It
hasn’t made a formal offer because AMR holds the exclusive right
to propose a restructuring plan through the end of this year.  “For many months now, we’ve emphasized that AMR management
has overreached in their desire to extract more concessions than
are warranted to support their reorganization plan,”  Keith
Wilson , the president of the pilots’ union, said in a message on
the union website. “Management went well beyond what is the
industry standard for bankruptcy contracts, and the judge
recognized this in his decision today.”  Lane said American has established that the pilots’ labor
agreement needs “significant changes,” citing the “undisputed
fact” that American’s expenses for pilots are some of the
highest among its peers.  Reaching Agreements  American needs to end its disputes with unions, either by
agreement or by canceling contracts, to move on with its
reorganization and consider strategic alternatives,  Jack Butler ,
an attorney for the committee representing unsecured creditors,
said in a statement. The committee expects AMR’s revised
proposal for the pilots to be approved by Lane, he said.  The judge’s decision “makes clear that American’s business
plan is well-grounded, that its plan for success is reasonable,
and that it has approached the sacrifices required of its
employees in a fair and equitable way,” an AMR spokesman,  Bruce Hicks , said in a statement.  AMR blamed its bankruptcy on labor costs that it said
exceeded competitors’ by as much as $800 million a year. The
carrier originally said it would cut 13,000 jobs, or about
18 percent of its workforce, under a  plan  to reduce annual
operating expense by $2 billion. Labor made up $1.25 billion of
the total, including $990 million sought from union workers.  Modified Demands  American later modified its demands, agreeing to freeze
rather than terminate employee pensions and lowering total cost
reductions sought to 17 percent from 20 percent for each work
group. For some unions, planned furloughs were cut or voluntary
buyouts were offered.  “Given American’s extreme losses over the past decade and
that the requested changes are necessary to bring American
generally in compliance with the labor costs and structure of
its competitors, the court finds the proposed uniform cut of
20 percent is fair and equitable,” Lane said in his decision.  APA members on Aug. 8 voted 61 percent against the
airline’s final contract offer, prompting the union board to
seek the resignation of President  David Bates . Bates had been a
major proponent of a merger with  US Airways , and APA said that
commitment would not change with new leadership. American has
more than 8,000 pilots.  Lane’s decision adds another chapter to the turbulent
relationship between pilots and American management that dates
back to a dispute over the 1998 acquisition of Reno Air Inc.  Pay Dispute  A dispute over pay and how to integrate Reno pilots into
the APA seniority list led to an 11-day sickout by American
pilots in February 1999 that forced the cancellation of 6,600
flights and cost the carrier about $225 million. In 2003, pilots
and other union workers gave $1.6 billion in annual concessions
to keep AMR out of bankruptcy.  During court hearings in May, Lane urged the two sides to
reach agreements on concessions before his ruling, noting that
if he allowed American to tear up existing contracts, they still
would have to negotiate longer term accords.  American earlier said it would use an April 19 contract
offer as the basis for imposing pilot concessions, including
allowing larger jets to be flown at commuter partners,
establishing domestic marketing agreements with other U.S.
carriers and increasing employee medical costs. Work-rule
changes to boost productivity may lead to as many as 400
furloughs.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  