-- Amorepacific Group, Marcopolo Added to MSCI Emerging Index
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-08-16T12:58:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/amorepacific-marcopolo-added-to-msci-emerging-markets-index.html
Amorepacific (090430)  Group, which owns part
of South Korea’s largest cosmetics maker, and  Marcopolo SA (POMO4) , a
Brazilian bus manufacturer, will be added to  MSCI Inc. (MSCI) ’s
 emerging markets  index following a quarterly review.  PetroVietnam Gas JSC (GAS) , a unit of Vietnam Oil & Gas Group,
will be included in the MSCI Frontier Markets Index, the New
York-based index provider said in a statement yesterday. The
changes will be made at the close on Aug. 31.  Amendments to indexes can alter share prices as passively
managed funds buy and sell stocks to mirror the benchmark
gauges. About $7 trillion of funds are benchmarked against MSCI
indexes globally, according to the company’s website.  “The addition to the MSCI indexes will benefit the stocks
as some exchange-traded funds tracking the indexes will add them
to their portfolio,” Jingyi Li, an analyst at Harding Loevner
LP, which manages about $19 billion in global asset including
emerging market equities, said by phone from Bridgewater,  New
Jersey  yesterday.  MSCI will add  Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , an Israeli maker
of technology used to transfer and store data, to its MSCI World
Index, along with  Camden Property Trust (CPT) , a real estate
investment pool based in Houston,  Texas , and  Realty Income
Corp. (O) , a commercial properties management firm in Escondido,
 California .  Telus Corp. (T) ,  Alpha Natural Resources Inc. (ANR) ,  NII Holdings
Inc. (NIHD)  and  Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT)  will be removed from the World
index.  Dongyue Group (189) ,  Lonking Holdings Ltd. (3339) ,  STX Pan Ocean Co. (028670) 
and  HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA  will be cut from the
emerging market index.  Decision Criteria  Shares of Amorepacific, which owns 35 percent of
Amorepacific Corp., gained 0.8 percent to a record in  Seoul 
today. PetroVietnam Gas advanced 1.8 percent, the most in a
month. Marcopolo has climbed 55 percent this year as Brazil’s
payroll tax reduction eased rising labor costs.  Mellanox, which has more than tripled this year, slipped
0.1 percent at 3:39 p.m. in  Tel Aviv . Elbit Systems, an Israeli
maker of defense systems, dropped 1.5 percent to the lowest
level since 2006.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets (MXEF)  Index, a gauge of shares in 21
developing nations, slid 0.1 percent. The measure has increased
6.3 percent this year, while the MSCI World gauge of developed
countries advanced 8.2 percent.  MSCI makes decisions on membership and weightings based on
a company’s market value, the average number of shares traded
and the free float, or the percentage of shares available to
investors, the index provider said. It also takes into account
the representation of a company’s industry group and its
country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  