-- Van Persie Nears Manchester Utd. Move as Clubs Agree on Fee
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-08-16T13:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/manchester-united-agrees-to-buy-arsenal-striker-robin-van-persie.html
Robin van Persie  is set to complete
his move to  Manchester United  after Arsenal agreed on a fee for
the sale of its captain, who said last month that he wouldn’t
extend his contract with the London soccer team.  Van Persie, 29, who led the Premier League with 30 goals
last season, will travel to Manchester today to discuss personal
terms with United and have a physical exam. United opens its
season at Everton on Aug. 20.  “I’m sure he’ll be available for Monday’s game,” manager
 Alex Ferguson  said at a press conference today in Manchester.  Details of the transfer fee weren’t released in statements
by either club. United will pay 22.5 million pounds ($35.4
million), with a further 1.5 million one-time bonus to follow if
the club wins a Premier League or European Champions League
title in the next four years, the British Broadcasting Corp.
reported, without saying where it got the information.  Van Persie  would become the first direct transfer from
Arsenal to United since the Premier League began 20 years ago.
Ferguson made Gunners defender Viv Anderson his first signing in
1987.  The Dutch forward said July 4 that he wouldn’t sign a
contract extension with the north London club, alerting United,
English league champion  Manchester City  and Italian Serie A
winner Juventus to his potential availability.  Following a meeting with Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  and
chief executive officer  Ivan Gazidis , Van Persie said in a
statement on his personal website that he disagreed with their
vision for the club, which last won a trophy in 2005.  New Signings  Van Persie would join Japanese midfielder Shinji Kagawa and
English midfielder Nick Powell as new acquisitions since United
was denied a record-extending 20th league championship on the
final day of last season, when City scored two goals in stoppage
time to beat Queens Park Rangers and snatch the title. United
striker  Wayne Rooney  last week said he was excited by the
prospect of playing alongside Van Persie.  “He’s a fantastic player,” Rooney told reporters. “He’s
been amazing for Arsenal over many years. If he does come here,
he would be a great addition to the squad.”  Van Persie joined Arsenal in 2004 from Feyenoord and has
scored 132 goals in 278 appearances, including 37 in 48 games in
all competitions last season, when he captained the team.  He was voted the Professional Footballers’ Association and
Football Writers’ player of the year, though scored only once as
the Netherlands was eliminated at the group stage of the 2012
European Championship.  Arsenal decided to sell the player rather than have him
leave as a free agent at the end of the season. He was in the
final year of his contract.  The Gunners bought Germany striker Lukas Podolski from
Cologne and Olivier Giroud, the leading scoring in  France ’s
Ligue 1 last season, from Montpellier. Spain midfielder Santi Cazorla joined from Malaga.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  