-- Manufacturing in New York Area Unexpectedly Shrank in August
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-08-15T12:38:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/manufacturing-in-new-york-region-unexpectedly-shrank-in-august.html
Manufacturing in the  New York  area
unexpectedly contracted in August for the first time in 10
months, indicating U.S. factories are burdened by the global
economic slowdown.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index fell to minus 5.9 this month from 7.4 in July. The  median 
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists was 7.0. Readings
less than zero signal contraction in the so-called Empire State
Index, which covers New York, northern  New Jersey  and southern
 Connecticut .  A slowdown in demand from consumers in the first half of
the year, limited  capital spending  and a build-up in inventories
gives factories little reason to boost production. Orders for
the region’s manufacturers fell to the lowest level in almost a
year, showing the industry that spurred the recovery from
recession is facing a bigger hurdle from a weaker global
economy.  “The outlook is not particularly favorable,”  Millan Mulraine , a senior U.S. strategist at TD Securities Inc. in New
York, said before the report. “Slowing global growth momentum
will certainly eat into the global demand for U.S. exports and
manufacturing in particular.”  Stock-index futures held losses after the figures, with the
contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index falling 0.2 percent
to 1,398.4 at 8:32 a.m. in New York.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 56 economists ranged
from minus 2 to 10.  The Empire State gauge of  new orders  dropped to minus 5.5
in August from minus 2.7 the prior month, while the shipments
measure fell to 4.1 from 10.3.  Factory Inventories  The measure of inventories dropped to minus 8.2 from zero
in the prior period. Inventories in the U.S. rose in June at the
slowest pace in nine months as a slump in sales gave companies
little incentive to keep more goods on hand, the Commerce
Department said yesterday. A slump in demand at the same time
pushed up the inventory-to-sales ratio to 1.29 months, the
highest since February 2010, the agency’s report showed.  The Fed’s index of factory employment decreased to 16.5 in
July from 18.5. The  unemployment rate  climbed to 8.3 percent in
July, the same rate as January.  The index of  prices paid  climbed to 16.5 from 7.4 in July.  Factory executives in the New York Fed’s district were less
upbeat about the future. A measure of business conditions during
the next six months dropped in August to 15.2 from 20.2 the
month earlier.  Other Measures  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s report on U.S. manufacturing. The Philadelphia
Fed’s gauge, to be released tomorrow, improved to minus 5 in
August from minus 12.9, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. The national ISM factory data will be released
on Sept. 4.  Manufacturing makes up 12 percent of the  U.S. economy  and
about 6 percent of the New York economy.  Deere & Co., the largest maker of  farm equipment , posted
fiscal third-quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates and
cut its full-year earnings forecast after global demand slowed.  Net income climbed to $788 million, or $1.98 a share, in
the three months ended July 31 from $712.3 million, or $1.69, a
year ago, Moline, Illinois-based Deere said today in a
statement. That missed the $2.32 average of 17 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Equipment sales rose 16 percent from a
year ago, compared with the 25 percent increase Deere forecast
in May.  “Sales fell short of our expectations due to weakening in
certain international markets and short-term manufacturing
inefficiencies resulting from the introduction of a record
number of new products,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Sam Allen said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in Washington at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  