-- Apollo Said to Seek Up to $12 Billion for Flagship Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-08-16T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/apollo-said-to-seek-up-to-12-billion-for-flagship-fund.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , plans to seek $10 billion
to $12 billion for a new buyout fund, according to two people
briefed on the matter.  The firm’s eighth main private-equity fund would be smaller
than its predecessor, which raised almost $15 billion in 2008.
The New York-based firm, which was founded in 1990, expects to
formally start marketing the fund later this year, said one of
the people, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private.  Apollo will be vying with firms including  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and
 Carlyle Group LP (CG)  amid increased competition for client money.
Private-equity funds were seeking a combined $801 billion as of
July, compared with $758 billion at the start of the year,
according to data from Preqin Ltd., a London research firm.  Charles Zehren , an Apollo spokesman, declined to comment.  Apollo’s main funds invest in leveraged buyouts and
purchase debt as a way to own companies. The 2008 fund,  Apollo
Investment Fund (APOL)  VII LP, had invested $13.1 billion in client
capital and was valued at $19.7 billion at the end of the second
quarter, producing a net internal rate of return of 23 percent.  Apollo, which listed its  shares  on the New York Stock
Exchange in 2011, has been seeking to sell some investments to
return money to clients as it prepares to raise its next fund.
Investors consider a firm’s record of cash distributions when
selecting funds. Apollo Fund VII has realized gains of $7.2
billion, according to the company’s second-quarter earnings
release.  IPO Filings  The firm has filed to take several companies public,
including chemical maker Momentive Performance Materials Inc.
and container maker  Berry Plastics Group Inc. (BERY)  Apollo this month
postponed the initial public offering of CKE Restaurants, owner
of the Carl’s Jr. and Hardee’s chains that it acquired in 2010.  Carlyle Group , based in Washington, is seeking $10 billion
for its flagship buyout fund, which began formally gathering
capital in February. New York-based KKR is aiming for a similar
amount and started marketing last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  