-- Tappan Zee Toll Boost May Hurt N.Y. Business, DiNapoli Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-08-15T19:41:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/tappan-zee-toll-boost-would-hurt-n-y-businesses-dinapoli-says.html
A proposal to almost triple tolls on
a new Tappan Zee Bridge over the  Hudson River  and raise rates
for truckers on the New York Thruway would be bad for business,
state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said.  The New York Thruway Authority’s operating costs have
increased 36 percent over the last decade as annual debt-service
payments doubled to $181.9 million, DiNapoli said in a report
released today. The 58-year-old Democrat asked the authority to
consider all options before raising tolls.  “Imposing a large toll increase could have damaging
effects on consumers and businesses at a time when many  New
Yorkers  are struggling to recover from the recession,” DiNapoli
said in an e-mailed statement. “The Thruway should do more
before relying on yet another toll hike to make ends meet.”  In May, the authority said it planned to boost by 45
percent the tolls paid by trucks on the Thruway, the longest
U.S. toll system. It would be the fifth increase since 2005.
Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s administration said this month that
tolls on a new $5.2 billion Tappan Zee may triple to $14 when
the span opens in 2017.  The two potential toll boosts have put political pressure
on Cuomo. Last week, he sent a letter to the authority asking it
to find ways to reduce the increase on the new Tappan Zee. He’s
been less vocal about the plan for trucks, saying he’s waiting
until after public hearings to weigh in. The first of those
hearings is scheduled for tomorrow in Buffalo.  Last Resort  “The raising of tolls, more revenue for government, should
always be a last resort,” Cuomo said at a press conference in
 Albany  today. “There has been a tremendous amount of
mismanagement at the Thruway Authority for many years, and
there’s been a tremendous amount of waste. The team that I’ve
just put in is trying to rectify that.”  DiNapoli’s report took specific aim at the Canal Corp., the
Thruway Authority subsidiary that operates and maintains the
363-mile (584-kilometer) Erie Canal. The authority has spent
$1.1 billion on the waterway since it was put under its control
in 1992, DiNapoli said. Business groups, including the
Rochester-based Unshackle Upstate, suggested in a July 24 letter
to Cuomo that the canal should be removed from the authority’s
management.  Bloomberg News reported Aug. 2 that the state spends as
much as $90 million a year, primarily from Thruway tolls, to
operate the canal and takes in only $2 million in revenue. The
article cited a May report from Chicago-based  Navigant
Consulting Inc. (NCI)   Elusive Goal  In his statement today, DiNapoli called for an independent
review of the canal system.  “Moving the canal system into the Thruway Authority was
intended, in part, to stimulate tourism and economic development
along the historic canal corridors,” DiNapoli said. “This
goal, too, has been elusive; boating activity on the canal has
declined substantially under Thruway control.”  From 2000 to 2010, boating on the Erie Canal dropped 23
percent to 99,343 vessels, according to the Thruway Authority.  “We’re really looking at the model established in  Europe ,
where smaller but similar vessels cruise through the Rhine and
other great areas,” Brian Stratton, director of canals, said in
a July interview. “We want to take that very successful model
and bring it here to a very significant history corridor along
the Erie.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  