-- Apple, Samsung Patent Judge Asks CEOs to Talk Again
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-15T20:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/apple-samsung-judge-asks-ceos-to-talk-before-deliberations.html
The judge presiding over an
intellectual property dispute between  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung
Electronics Co. said the chief executive officers of the
contending companies should talk again before the jury begins
deliberating.  “I’m going to make one more request that CEOs from both
sides speak by phone,” U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh said in
federal court today in  San Jose ,  California . “I see risks here
for both sides,” she said.  Koh earlier this year ordered Apple CEO  Tim Cook  to meet
face to face with his counterpart at Samsung, Choi Gee Sung.
That conference didn’t yield a settlement.  “It’s at least worth one more try,” the judge said today.
Koh has given each side 25 hours to present its case. Jury
deliberations may begin as early as Aug. 21, she said.  Apple sued Samsung in April 2011, accusing it of copying
patented designs for mobile devices, and Samsung countersued.
The case is the first to go before a federal jury in a battle
being waged on four continents for dominance in a smartphone
market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1 billion.  Apple is claiming at least $2.5 billion in damages for
patent and trade-dress infringement. Cupertino, California-based
Apple also wants to make permanent a preliminary ban it won on
U.S. sales of a  Samsung (005930)  tablet, and extend the ban to Samsung
smartphones.  ‘Message Delivered’  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, is trying to persuade
the jury to find Apple’s patents invalid and to award
unspecified damages for alleged infringement of its patents.  “If all you wanted is to raise that you have IP on these
devices, message delivered,” Koh said today. “External
valuations” of the intellectual property have been established
at the San Jose trial and in other courts, she said.  “In many ways, mission accomplished,” she said. “It’s
time for peace.”  Attorneys for both sides said they will comply with her
request. Apple General Counsel Bruce Sewell, who was in court,
told the judge he will deliver the message to his company.  “It’s not necessarily uncommon for this to happen,”
 Manotti Jenkins , a patent attorney at Valorem Law Group in
 Chicago , said in a phone interview. “Sometimes judges feel that
cooler heads will prevail, possibly from both sides, given the
evidence that has come out.”  Oracle-Google  Oracle Corp. CEO  Larry Ellison  and Google Inc. CEO  Larry
Page  were ordered by a federal judge in September to attend a
settlement conference before trial in a copyright- and patent-
infringement lawsuit that the maker of  business software  had
brought against Google over its Android mobile-phone operating
system.  Those talks were also fruitless, and a jury in May found
that Google had infringed Oracle’s copyrights, deadlocking on
whether that was fair use. Later that month, the jury said
Google hadn’t infringed Oracle’s patents.  Apple’s dispute with Samsung is “a huge patent case,
beyond an ordinary patent case, and a jury verdict could have
major implications,” Jenkins said. The magnitude of the outcome
means the CEOs need to be involved in discussions, he said.  “With such potentially high stakes, if there is going to
be a resolution that is rational and that both sides can live
with, it’s going to come from that level,” he said.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.,
11-cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  