-- Apple, Samsung Engineers Recount Sleepless Tech-Cramming Nights
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-15T19:06:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/apple-samsung-engineers-recount-sleepless-tech-cramming-nights.html
While creating  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy smartphone, Jeeyuen Wang said she slept two to
three hours a night designing icons for the device’s software.
As a new mother, she stopped breastfeeding to stay on schedule.  “That was very difficult,” Wang said, speaking through an
interpreter translating Korean, during testimony this week in
the patent case between Samsung and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in federal court
in  San Jose ,  California .  Her story was among the details from Apple and Samsung’s
multibillion-dollar trial that underscore the high stakes
involved with the timing and quality of a new product that can
generate billions of dollars in revenue. In a smartphone market
valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1 billion, companies are
under pressure to unveil cutting-edge features without missing
deadlines. Apple’s iPhone was the top-selling smartphone last
year, generating more than $60 billion in sales.  At Apple’s Cupertino, California, headquarters, the floor
where the company originally built the iPhone software that is
now the foundation for more than half the company’s sales was
nicknamed the “Purple Dorm” because of its similarities to a
college dormitory. In testimony earlier this month,  Scott Forstall , Apple’s senior vice president in charge of mobile
software, described bleary-eyed engineers cramming to meet a
deadline, movie references posted on the wall and the smell of
pizza.  When Apple was selecting a team to build the iOS software
that now powers the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch, Forstall
interviewed employees to gauge their interest.  “You’re going to work harder than you ever have in your
entire life,” Forstall said he told the workers. “You’re going
to have to give up nights and weekends probably for a couple of
years as we make this product.”  Hosting Hackathons  Many technology companies glamorize these all-night
cramming sessions.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and others host hackathons,
where employees work through the night writing the software code
of future products. In the movie “The  Social Network ,” the
fictionalized version of  Mark Zuckerberg  is shown writing the
original Facebook code fueled in part by beer.  The health consequences of such a sedentary lifestyle are
being realized by many software engineers, who eat poorly and
don’t exercise,  Mike Lee , who used to work at Apple, said in an
interview. He lost about 30 pounds after leaving Apple to move
to Amsterdam, where he’s building iPhone and iPad applications.  Even so, he said he’s been coding for three weeks straight,
seven days a week, on a new project.  “You’re talking about a group of people who have
traditionally been sleep-deprived and have put their health
second,” Lee said. “We measure success by how hardcore you are
and how haggard you look before you ship” the product, he said.  Working Overtime  Making employees work extremely long hours, often without
additional compensation, has been an issue in the past among
some technology companies. Video-game maker Electronics Arts
Inc. and International Business Machines Corp. have paid out
settlements to employees who sued because they weren’t
compensated for overtime.  For many, the financial rewards of working at a technology
company are substantial. Some software engineers at Apple,
Facebook, Google Inc. and other Silicon Valley companies have
become millionaires as a result of their salaries and stock
options. According to  Glassdoor.com , a website that tracks
workplace satisfaction and compensation, the median salary for a
software engineer in San Francisco is $90,000 a year. The real
median  household income  for the U.S. in 2010 was $49,445,
according to the  U.S. Census Bureau .  Many large technology companies also have added amenities
for employees to enjoy when not in front of their computer
screens, including free meals or gym memberships.  For many, the trade-off is worth it because of the thrill
of creating something new, Forstall said in court last week.  “Some tremendously talented people accepted that challenge
and that’s how I put together the iPhone team,” he said.
Samsung devices.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  