-- Aramco Says Virus Attacks Network, Oil Output Unaffected
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-08-16T15:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/aramco-says-virus-attacks-network-oil-output-unaffected.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
largest crude exporter, is continuing to pump oil as usual after
its computer network was attacked by a virus.  The parts of the network linked to oil production weren’t
affected and its systems will resume full operations soon, the
producer known as  Saudi Aramco  said in a statement, without
being more specific. The virus entered the network through
personal computers, according to the statement.  “In a market that is starting to focus more on
geopolitical issues in the  Middle East , the deepening of the
idea that there may be parties intending electronic sabotage
against oil operations is likely to be unsettling one,” Miswin Mahesh, an analyst at Barclays Plc, wrote today in a report.  Oil and nuclear facilities in Iran have previously been
subject to a succession of cyber attacks including the Stuxnet
worm last year and a virus dubbed Flame in May. The cyber worm
Gauss, focused on the banking industry in Lebanon, was found
last week, according to Kaspersky Lab, a Moscow-based
information-technology security company.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  may face similar cyber
attacks because their networks are linked to the Aramco system,
al-Hayat newspaper reported today, citing unidentified employees
at the state company. Those companies have a presence in the
Eastern Province of  Saudi Arabia , where Saudi Aramco is based,
the London-based daily  said .  Iran denied that its nuclear facilities suffered a cyber
assault that shut down computers and played music from the rock
band AC/DC, the state-run Iranian Students News Agency reported
on Aug. 1. The  Foreign Ministry  said in May that the attacks
were being launched by hostile governments as part of a broader
“soft war.”  Saudi Arabia is the largest oil producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, followed by Iraq
and  Iran , according to Bloomberg estimates. The kingdom pumped
9.88 million barrels a day last month, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  