-- Target Raises Profit Forecast as Groceries Boost Sales
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-08-15T20:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/target-quarterly-profit-tops-estimates-as-store-sales-gain.html
Target Corp. (TGT)  raised its annual
profit forecast as the second-largest U.S. discount retailer
increases sales by adding groceries and enticing more spending
from customers with a discount card.  Net income this year will rise to as much as $4.40 a share,
the Minneapolis-based chain said today in a statement. That’s up
from a previous projection of a maximum of $4.30 a share in May.
The average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was
$4.30.  The retailer plans to boost sales growth by opening stores
in  Canada  next year, its first expansion outside its home
country. Until then, Target has been working to spur sales by
adding fresh food sections and offering customers incentives to
spend with its  credit card , which gives 5 percent off purchases.  “Their retail business is fine,”  David Strasser , an
analyst for Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in  New York , said in an
interview. Still, investors should be concerned about Target’s
narrowing gross margin and that much of the improvements to its
results was generated by the credit-card unit, he said.  Target  rose  1.8 percent to $64.50 at the close in New York.
The shares have  gained  26 percent this year.  Net income in the quarter ended July 28 totaled $704
million, or $1.06 a share, compared with $704 million, or $1.03,
a year earlier. Analysts projected $1.01, the average of 22
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The results included a one-time tax benefit of 3 cents a
share. The company repurchased $549 million in shares, more than
the $500 million estimated by  Deborah Weinswig , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. Costs related to its entry into Canada reduced
profit by 9 cents a share.  Gross Margin  Discounting and selling more food has reduced Target’s
profitability because consumers are paying less for items and
groceries often have small margins.  Second-quarter retail gross margin, the percentage of sales
left after subtracting the cost of goods sold, narrowed to 31.3
percent from 31.6 percent a year earlier. That marked the eighth
straight decline.  The company’s credit card unit became less profitable.
Income declined 18 percent to $140 million from $171 million a
year earlier. That topped Strasser’s income projection by about
$40 million.  Sale Talks  The retailer is in talks with several potential buyers of
its credit-card receivables and hopes to complete a transaction
by the end of this fiscal year or early in the next one, Chief
Financial Officer John Mulligan said today on a conference call
with analysts. Target had suspended the sale in January.  The percentage of sales being made through its REDCard
discount program, which includes Target-issued credit and debit
cards, rose to 13 percent from 8.7 percent a year earlier.  Target previously reported that it increased same-store
sales 3.1 percent in the second quarter. That followed a gain of
5.3 percent in the first quarter, its best performance in six
years, as the warmest temperatures in  North America  in 50 years
encouraged shopping.  The retailer also announced that it invested in a company
along with other chains, including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , to
build a mobile-payment product as a way to cut costs and send
deals to consumers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  