-- Arsenal’s Song Close to Joining Barca for $23.5 Million: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-15T05:49:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/arsenal-s-song-close-to-joining-barca-for-23-5-million-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Going for a Song  Barcelona is close to signing Arsenal midfielder  Alex Song 
for 15 million pounds ($23.5 million) after Josep Maria
Bartomeu, the Spanish club’s vice-president, flew to London to
tie up the deal, the  Independent reported .  Song still has two years remaining on his Arsenal contract,
though Gunners manager  Arsene Wenger  is willing to sell if the
price is right, the newspaper added.  Top Scorer  Everton may sign Belgian forward Kevin Mirallas as early
as tomorrow, when the Olympiakos player will undergo a physical
examination before sealing his transfer, the  Guardian reported .  The fee is said to be about 6 million pounds for Mirallas,
who can play on either wing or through the middle and was the
top scorer in the Greek Super League with 20 goals last season,
the newspaper added.  Modric Move  Croatia coach Igor Stimac said midfielder Luka Modric, who
will play his first game since Euro 2012 today, will secure his
move to Real  Madrid  from Tottenham Hotspur by the end of this
month, the  Daily Express reported .  “I don’t like the situation that Modric is in at all,”
the Express cited Stimac as saying on the eve of Croatia’s
exhibition match against  Switzerland  in Split. “He has not
played any games this summer but will end up signing for Madrid
before the market shuts.”  Fletcher Returns  Manchester United  midfielder  Darren Fletcher  made his first
appearance in nine months during yesterday’s 2-1 defeat against
Scottish club Aberdeen in a testimonial match, the  Sun reported .  The 28-year-old Fletcher, who has been battling a chronic
inflammatory bowel condition, played for the final 30 minutes
after training with the Scotland national squad in Edinburgh
this week, the Sun said.  Manchester Medical  Chilean striker Angelo Henriquez, 18, completed a three-
hour physical exam yesterday ahead of a move to Manchester
United, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Henriquez, who’s scored 11 goals in 17 league games in 2012
and helped  Universidad de Chile  win the Apertura title, will
cost United about 4 million pounds, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  