-- Asia Currencies Fall on Concern Global Slowdown to Hurt Exports
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-08-15T03:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/asia-currencies-fall-on-concern-global-slowdown-to-hurt-exports.html
The Philippine peso led declines in
Asian currencies amid concern a global economic slowdown will
worsen the outlook for exports that drive the region’s growth.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar Index fell to its lowest
level in more than a week after data released yesterday showed
the euro-area economy shrank in the second quarter.  India ,  South
Korea , Indonesia and  Taiwan  all released trade figures since the
start of August showing slides in their overseas sales. Slower
 growth  in  China , Asia’s biggest economy, may hurt overseas
shipments from the  Philippines , central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said yesterday.  “Weakening global growth is finally taking its toll on
Asian exports,” said Wee-Khoon Chong, a fixed-income strategist
at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong. “This in turn is likely to
drag Asian growth lower, which would not bode well for regional
currencies.”  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s 10-most
active currencies excluding the yen, declined 0.1 percent to
115.28 as of 10:19 a.m. in  Hong Kong  and touched 115.27, the
lowest since Aug. 3. The peso slumped 0.5 percent to 42.115 per
dollar, Thailand’s baht depreciated 0.3 percent to 31.51 and
Malaysia’s ringgit fell 0.2 percent to 3.1241, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Merchandise shipments from India declined 14.8 percent to
$22.4 billion last month, Director General of Foreign Trade Anup Pujari said yesterday. Struggling exports and a moderation in
investment have contributed to a slowdown in the nation’s
economy.  Gross domestic product  rose 5.3 percent in the three
months through March from a year earlier, the least since 2003.  Malaysia Data  The ringgit fell before data forecast to show Southeast
Asia’s third-largest economy grew at the slowest pace in a year.
GDP increased 4.6 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, compared with 4.7 percent in the previous three months,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
survey before official data due today.  “People are reluctant to take heavy positions ahead of the
GDP data, which could signal downside risks to growth,” said
Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange research at  Malayan
Banking Bhd. (MAY)  in  Singapore . “The Malaysian currency will likely
trade in a tight range this week against the dollar.”  China’s  yuan  declined as the central bank set the
currency’s daily fixing at the lowest level since November. A
report yesterday suggested capital flowed out of the country
last month after economic growth slowed to three-year-low. The
currency slid 0.06 percent to 6.3627 against the dollar in
Shanghai.  Yuan Rate  The People’s Bank of China lowered the yuan’s reference
rate by 0.06 percent to 6.3482 per dollar today, the weakest
level since Nov. 30.  Yuan positions  at Chinese lenders
accumulated from foreign-exchange purchases stood at 25.658
trillion yuan at the end of July, down from 25.661 trillion yuan
in June, PBOC data showed yesterday.
“The yuan will continue to suffer from the cautious
atmosphere,” said Patrick Cheng, a Hong Kong-based foreign-
exchange analyst at Haitong International Securities Co.
“Investors are watching what China will do to revive growth.
It’ll take a while for those funds that have left to return.”  Elsewhere,  Indonesia ’s rupiah declined 0.1 percent to 9,496
against the greenback. Taiwan’s dollar and Vietnam’s dong were
little changed at NT$29.958 and 20,853, respectively. Financial
markets are closed today in South Korea and
India for public holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  