-- Aspen Agrees to Buy Glaxo Products for 2.2 Billion Rand
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-08-15T15:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/aspen-agrees-to-buy-glaxo-products-for-2-2-billion-rand.html
Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd. (APN) , the
Southern Hemisphere’s largest generic drugmaker, agreed to buy
25 pharmaceutical brands from U.K. partner  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
to bolster an Australian expansion.  Aspen will pay 2.2 billion rand ($268 million) for labels
including Amoxil, Kapanol, Zantac and Lamactil, the
Johannesburg-based manufacturer said in a statement today. The
purchase will be funded from new offshore debt facilities and
will boost earnings in the year ending June 2013, it said.  “Whenever we can, we tend to use debt to fund deals as
Aspen is very cash generative, so it doesn’t make sense to issue
equity,” Chief Executive Officer Stephen Saad said in an
interview in Johannesburg. “Over time we can eliminate debt.”
The company has secured an interest rate of 5 percent to 6
percent, he said.  Aspen, which supplies medicines in more than 100 countries,
is looking to increase business in Asia Pacific,  Latin America 
and sub-Saharan Africa, Saad said March 7. The transaction with
London-based GlaxoSmithKline adds a range of antibiotic and
anti-viral medicines as well as painkillers, muscle relaxants
and treatments for nausea and inflammation.  Sigma’s Purchase  The South African drugmaker completed the purchase last
year of Melbourne-based  Sigma Pharmaceuticals (SIP) , which allowed
Aspen to introduce its generic and over-the-counter products in
Australia and expand into countries including Japan, Taiwan,
Thailand and the Philippines.  “We already issue one in seven scripts in Australia and so
this deal means we can promote these brands without many
additional overhead costs,” Saad said. Aspen can take brands
that haven’t received attention from the previous owner, “give
them some care and make them work.”  Fiscal first-half profit jumped 30 percent to 1.5 billion
rand as sales in Australia,  Hong Kong ,  New Zealand  and the
Philippines tripled. Aspen is  scheduled  to release preliminary
full-year earnings on Sept. 12.  Aspen  fell  0.4 percent to 139.50 rand at the close in
Johannesburg. The shares have gained 44 percent this year, the
second-best performance on the six-stock  FTSE/JSE Africa Non-
Cyclical Consumer Goods Index. (JNCCG)   GlaxoSmithKline, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, owns 18.6
percent of Aspen. BDO Corporate Finance (Pty) Ltd. found the
transaction between the companies to be fair to Aspen
shareholders, the South African company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  