-- ATP Investor Says Royalty Payments Won’t Halt Under Bankruptcy
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-08-15T21:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/atp-investor-says-royalty-payments-won-t-halt-under-bankruptcy.html
NGP Capital Resources Co. (NGPC) , the
Houston-based fund that invests in energy producers, said it
expects its monthly royalty payments from  ATP Oil & Gas Corp. (ATPG) 
won’t be interrupted if ATP files for  bankruptcy protection .  The “overriding royalty interests” NGP owns are shares of
proceeds from the sale of oil and natural gas in two of ATP’s
Gulf of Mexico oilfields. The royalties would be treated as
production payments in bankruptcy court, and as such wouldn’t be
halted, Scott Biar, NGP’s chief financial officer, said today.  ATP is arranging $600 million in debtor-in-possession
financing from Credit Suisse Group AG ahead of a possible
bankruptcy filing, two people with knowledge of the matter said
last week.  NGP paid $25 million to ATP last month in exchange for a 5
percent overriding royalty interest in the oil company’s
Telemark field, adding to the 10.8 percent royalty interest NGP
already owned in ATP’s Gomez field as a result of a previous
cash infusion, Biar said during a meeting with investors on the
sidelines of Enercom Consulting’s Oil and Gas Conference in
Denver.  “There’s substantial production from both those fields,”
Biar said. The royalty payments “should be recognized as
production payments under the  bankruptcy code , should that
transpire. There are no sure things in life, particularly in
 bankruptcy court .”  Albert Reese, ATP’s CFO, didn’t immediately return a
message left on his office phone.  ATP lost 94 percent of its market value this year as it
missed production targets and delayed marquee projects. The
company canceled a scheduled presentation today at the same
Denver conference that Biar attended. The ATP royalty interests
represent the third-largest investment in NGP’s portfolio.  Standard & Poor’s  said on Aug. 1 that ATP won’t have enough
cash to make an $89 million payment in November on its 11.875
percent notes due in May 2015 without outside financing.  ATP shares fell 16 percent today to 41 cents in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  