-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Advance as Commodities Rally on U.S. Data
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-08-15T21:27:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/aussie-n-z-dollars-advance-as-commodities-rally-on-u-s-data.html
The Australian dollar gained against
its U.S. counterpart for the first time in four days as
commodities rallied on signs of improvement in the world’s
largest economy.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars rose against the
majority of their 16 most-traded peers as the appetite for
higher-yielding assets increased. The Aussie declined earlier
after a private survey showed the nation’s  consumer confidence 
fell amid prospects the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  will keep
 interest rates  unchanged.  “A bump in commodity prices -- commodities go up,
commodity currencies go up,”  John Doyle , director of markets in
Washington at currency-trading firm Tempus Consulting Inc., said
in a telephone interview. “The retail data was pretty good, all
things considered, and the industrial production number.”  The Aussie rose 0.2 percent to $1.0505 yesterday in  New
York . The currency advanced 0.5 percent to 82.98 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, gained for the
first time in three days, adding 0.2 percent to 80.71 U.S.
cents. It climbed 0.5 percent to 63.76 yen.  The S&P GSCI gauge of 24 commodities gained 1 percent and
crude-oil futures increased 0.9 percent to $94.27 a barrel in
New York.  Federal Reserve data showed U.S. industrial production
increased 0.6 percent in July, after a revised 0.1 percent gain
in June that was smaller than previously reported. Economists in
a Bloomberg News survey forecast a 0.5 percent rise. U.S. retail
sales yesterday rose for the first time in four months.  Kiwi Weakening  The kiwi may weaken against its U.S. counterpart to its
lowest level in three weeks if it breaks a key support level,
according to UBS AG, citing technical indicators.  New Zealand’s currency is approaching support at 80.16 U.S.
cents,  Richard Adcock , head of fixed-income technical strategy
at UBS in London, wrote yesterday in a note to clients. If the
currency falls below this level, it could see near-term
depreciation to 79.67, he said. Support refers to a level on a
price graph where technical analysts anticipate orders to buy an
asset.  The kiwi may also depreciate versus the Australian dollar
to NZ$1.3080, its July low, according to Adcock. If this level
is breached, the currency could decline to NZ$1.3179, its Dec.
27 low, he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  