-- Australia Housing Plunge, Rate Rises Won’t Hurt RMBS, Fitch Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-08-15T14:05:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/australia-housing-plunge-rate-rises-won-t-hurt-rmbs-fitch-says.html
Australia’s residential mortgage-
backed  securities market  is unlikely to see a cut in ratings if
home prices plunge, unemployment doubles and  interest rates 
surge, according to a  stress test  conducted by  Fitch Ratings .  Under a moderate scenario -- in which home prices fall by
35 percent from  current levels , the  unemployment  rate jumps to
11 percent and variable interest rates on mortgages climb to 12
percent from 6.9 percent -- 97.2 percent of AAA-rated RMBS would
remain unchanged, Fitch said in an e-mailed report.  Australian house and apartment prices rose 0.6 percent in
July from the prior month, when they climbed 1 percent,
according to the RP Data-Rismark home value index released Aug.
1. The nation’s  unemployment rate  has remained in a range of 5
percent to 5.3 percent for the past 15 months, with the economy
adding jobs in four of the past five months, prompting the
central bank to keep  interest rates  on hold in July and August
after 75 basis points of cuts in the prior two months.  Australia  is “one of the more robust countries in the
world,” Fitch analysts led by Ben Newey wrote in the report.
Still, “potential downside risks to Australia come from the
European crisis, which could lead to limited access to finance.
High residential property prices and a dependence on relatively
high commodity prices also have the potential to cause future
stress in Australia.”  Some 71 percent of Australian 303 RMBS tranches have a AAA
rating, while about 11 percent are rated AA and A, according to
Fitch.  About 87 percent of BBB-rated RMBS and 92 percent of those
a BB rating would be reduced to a distressed rating under the
moderate scenario, Fitch said. All RMBS with a B rating -- 13
out of a total 303 -- would be cut, it said. BBB-rated
securities account for 4.6 percent of the total, BB for 8.6
percent and B for 4.3 percent, it said.  A severe stress scenario, in which  home prices  halve from
current levels, and unemployment and mortgage rates surge to 15
percent, is “extremely remote,” Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  