-- Australia Plain-Pack Tobacco Law May Spread to U.K., N.Z.
-- B y   D a v e   M c C o m b s
-- 2012-08-16T10:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/australia-plain-pack-tobacco-law-may-spread-to-u-k-n-z-.html
The U.K. and  New Zealand  are among
countries more likely to ban logos from cigarette packages after
 Australia  approved the world’s first uniform-packaging law,
officials and health researchers said.  The Australian ruling gives New Zealand “a greater sense
of security” during its consultation process on plain-packaging
legislation, Tariana Turia, New Zealand’s associate minister of
health, said yesterday after the ruling in Canberra. “This is
more than just a victory for the Australian government, I think
it is a global victory.”  Australia’s high court ruled against claims by cigarette
makers opposed to the restrictions, including  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) 
and  British American Tobacco Plc. (BATS)  The legislation takes effect
Dec. 1 and the ruling is a victory for a government faced with
A$31.5 billion ($33 billion) in annual health costs from
smoking, a habit it estimates killed 900,000 Australians over
six decades.  “This ruling is likely to trigger similar restrictions in
many other countries, including especially  Great Britain  and New
Zealand,” John Banzhaf, a law professor at George  Washington 
University Law School, said by e-mail.  The Australian law says cigarettes can only be sold in
packaging with no company logos and with the same font for all
brands on a dark brown background. Graphic health warnings will
cover 90 percent of the back of the package and 70 percent of
the front.  India Reaction  ITC Ltd. (ITC) ,  India ’s largest maker of cigarettes, fell 3.6
percent to 258.35 rupees at the close in Mumbai, the most since
May 8. The stock market in India was shut yesterday for a public
holiday.  Investors are “fearing that if the same thing happens in
India that would mean significant brand-equity loss for ITC,”
Nitin Mathur, an analyst with Espirito Santo Securities, said in
an e-mail.  India’s government has yet to consider a law on plain
packaging, and the Australian ruling will add to pressure from
citizens to do so, Prakash Gupta, director of  Healis , a non-
profit organization that works on tobacco control, said in a
phone interview from Mumbai.  “There is already a talk about the feasibility and
implementation” of such a rule in India, said Gupta. “Probably
it is still far away. But there may be more media attention,
more conversation, more discussion within the government, and if
they start talking about it, it will be a big achievement.”  Legal Challenges  The Australian decision isn’t necessarily precedent-setting
because trademark rules vary from country to country, Japan
Tobacco said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Philip Morris (PM)  plans to pursue compensation claims against
the Australian government for the loss of its ability to use
trademarks, Chris Argent, a company spokesman, said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  “The legality of plain packaging, including whether
Australia will have to pay substantial compensation to  Philip
Morris   Asia , remains at issue and will be considered in other
ongoing legal challenges,” Argent said.  Health policy makers in the U.K. will “look carefully at
today’s judgment on Australia’s plain packaging laws,” Public
Health Minister Anne Milton said in a statement sent by e-mail.
“We are considering whether plain packaging of tobacco could
bring public health benefits.”  ‘Domino Effect’  William Hill Plc. (WMH)  is offering 5-1 odds the U.K. will pass a
similar law before the next general election, meaning a
successful 1 pound ($1.60) wager would win five pounds profit.
The odds against passage are 1-9, Graham Sharpe, a spokesman for
the U.K.-based bookmaker, said by e-mail.  Governments in  Europe ,  Canada  and New Zealand have
indicated an interest in implementing similar legislation.  “What we hope to see is a domino effect for the good of
public health,” Margaret Chan, director general of the  World
Health Organization , said in an e-mailed statement late
yesterday. “The evidence on the positive health impact of plain
packaging compiled by Australia’s High Court will benefit other
countries in their efforts to develop and implement strong
tobacco control measures.”  Consultations on a British government plan to enforce
standardized packaging for tobacco products ended last week,
with the  International Chamber of Commerce  in the U.K. among
those raising concerns. The plain-packaging requirements would
probably breach some of the U.K.’s international obligations,
including World Trade Organization intellectual property
agreements, said  Andrew Wilson , director of policy at ICC.  Eyes on Australia  Similar plans may be more difficult to implement in the
U.S., where cigarette manufacturers have relied on the First
Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, which protects the right to
freedom of expression.  “There is First Amendment protection, but it’s not
absolute,”  Matthew Myers , president of Campaign for Tobacco-
Free Kids in Washington, said in a phone interview yesterday.
With enough evidence to show restrictions are needed to protect
public health, the First Amendment hurdle can be overcome, Myers
said.  The Cancer Society of New Zealand estimated health-care
costs related to smoking come to about NZ$250 million a year as
of 2004 in the country, where the government said in May it will
raise cigarette taxes 10 percent a year in each of the next four
years to discourage consumption.  Smoking caused about 81,700 deaths of adults aged 35 and
over in 2010 in the U.K., where spending on tobacco more than
tripled from 1980 to 17.7 billion pounds ($27.7 billion) that
year, the National Health Service  estimates .  Australia has no plans to expand the restrictions to
alcohol or fast foods, Attorney General  Nicola Roxon  told
reporters in Canberra yesterday.  Tobacco is a “special case,” Roxon said. Cigarettes are
“the only legal consumer product that kills when used exactly
as intended by the manufacturer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave McCombs in Tokyo at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  