-- Asbestos Recall in Australia Clouds China Automaker Plans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-15T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/australia-recalls-23-000-chinese-made-cars-over-asbestos.html
An Australian recall by  China ’s two
biggest car exporters for potential cancer-producing asbestos 
parts may threaten plans by Chinese automakers to expand into 
the U.S. and  Europe  amid intensifying competition at home.  Australia was to be the “testing area” for Chinese
carmakers looking to enter larger markets and the recall has
dealt a blow to those ambitions, according to Dunne & Co.  Great
Wall Motor Co. (2333)  and Chery Automobile Co. recalled 23,000 of their
vehicles sold in Australia after authorities found asbestos in
some models.  “It’s a significant setback for the individual companies
and development of the industry,” said  Michael Dunne , head of
industry researcher Dunne & Co., in a telephone interview
yesterday. “Chinese car companies will continue to push
overseas, but you can bet that other countries that they are
moving into, or are exporting to, are going to take a closer
look on what’s on offer.”  The use of asbestos in exports raises concerns about the
quality and safety of products made in China, which has
struggled with repeated health scares that include excessive
lead found in toys, melamine-tainted milk and pet food killing
children and dogs. Vehicle exports from the country may rise
about 50 percent this year, extending record shipments in 2011,
according to the official trade chamber.  Great Wall led shares of Chinese automakers lower in  Hong
Kong  yesterday as the discovery of asbestos -- banned in 55
nations because of the fiber’s links to cancer and respiratory
illnesses -- undermines the nation’s carmakers in their push to
build their brands in overseas markets.  Home Pressure  Passenger-vehicle deliveries trailed analysts’ estimates
for the first time in five months in July, according to data
from the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers. Domestic
brands have been the hardest hit in the market slowdown, facing
higher levels of sales pressure than international brands,
 Westlake Village , California-based researcher J.D. Power &
Associates said.  Algeria , China’s second biggest export market for cars in
2011, prohibits the use of asbestos for most uses, according to
the International Ban Asbestos Secretariat’s website. Chile,
Uruguay and  Egypt  are others among China’s top 10 auto export
markets last year that have similar bans.  Great Wall plans to double its number of overseas assembly
plants to 24 by 2015 and raise total manufacturing capacity to
500,000 units a year, it said in April. The company plans to
export 100,000 vehicles this year, or 18 percent of its expected
total deliveries, Chairman Wei Jianjun said in March.  Chery sold a record 160,200 units overseas last year, a 73
percent increase from 2010. In the first six months of this
year, the company exported 94,494 units, on track to meet its
full-year target of 170,000 units, according to a statement on
its  website .  Overseas Push  The automaker currently sells to more than 80 countries and
regions and has 16 manufacturing bases abroad. Chery invested
$400 million in a plant in  Brazil , which starts operating in
late 2013 with an annual production capacity of 150,000 units.  Shang Yugui, a spokesman at Great Wall, the biggest maker
of  sport utility vehicles  and pick-up trucks in China, said the
company became aware of the issue in April and then stopped
using the parts in question. The components were used in some
vehicles sold in China and overseas markets, he said, without
giving more details.  “We need to reflect at Great Wall,” Shang said. “We
became careless after our repeated checks showed that the
asbestos parts won’t cause harm to the human body.”  Mistaken Use  Chery said workers mistakenly used a wrong batch of parts
that wasn’t meant for cars to be exported to Australia. The
automaker hasn’t discussed recalling vehicles with similar
asbestos parts in markets outside of Australia, spokesman Huang
Huaqiong said yesterday. The company will issue recalls if the
respective authorities require them, Huang said.  The recall in Australia, which has identical safety
standards to Europe’s, will tar the consumer perception of
China-made cars and sets back the progress made by Chinese
automakers in recent years, according to  CIMB Securities (CIMBI)  HK.  “This will change consumers’ mindsets toward Chinese
cars,” said Cheam Tze Shen, auto analyst at CIMB Securities HK.
“After all, better to be safe than sorry with regards to health
issues especially if the vehicle is designated as your family
car.”  Consumers should avoid “do-it-yourself” maintenance that
may disturb contaminated engine and exhaust gaskets, the
Australian Competition and Consumer Commission said in a
 statement  yesterday.  Australian Recall  Ateco Automotive Pty, the Chinese carmakers’ distributor in
Australia, had received written assurances from the two
manufacturers that no parts of the vehicles contained asbestos
before imports began from Great Wall in 2009 and Chery in 2011,
Daniel Cotterill, a public affairs official, said by phone from
Sydney yesterday.  The recall represents the majority of the Chinese
companies’ vehicles brought into the country since imports
began, Cotterill said, without giving a precise number.  A total of 15,355 Great Wall and 1,822 Chery vehicles were
sold in  Australia  during 2010 and 2011, according to the
nation’s Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries, an industry
group.  Ateco told Chery and Great Wall dealers to halt sales of
the affected vehicles, according to the ACCC statement.  The discovery was “an absolute disgrace,” Barry Robson,
president of the Asbestos Diseases Foundation of Australia, said
by phone from Sydney.  “There is a complete ban on asbestos products here in
Australia,” he said. “They’ve got to remove those cars off the
road. Not every brake mechanic or car mechanic will know about
this.”  Recall Models  The  recall  involves Great Wall’s SA 220, V240, X240, V200
and X200 models; as well as Chery’s J11 and J3, according to the
ACCC’s website.  Asbestos  is the name given to six natural  fibers  about
1,200 times smaller than a strand of human hair that can be
woven like fabric. The strands have been used for the last 140
years in construction and their resistance to fire, heat and
chemicals have also helped them gain uses in automaking.
Evidence of the harmful effects of asbestos began appearing a
century ago and national bans were first enacted in the 1970s.  All forms of asbestos are carcinogenic, according to the
 World Health Organization . Fifty-five countries including  Japan 
and all members of the European Union have banned asbestos in
factories, buildings and car parts. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency selectively  bans  the material in products such
as spray-on paint and pipe insulation.  “If the report was that the power windows weren’t working,
or if air conditioners don’t work in Australian summers, that’s
one thing,” said Dunne. “But when it’s safety, that’s a no-
no.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  