-- Australians’ Confidence Wanes, Wages Gain in Conundrum: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-15T04:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/australians-confidence-wanes-wages-gain-in-conundrum-economy.html
Australian  consumer confidence  fell
by the most in five months even as wages climbed, sending mixed
signals on the economy as the central bank weighs whether to
hold  interest rates  at a developed-world high.  The sentiment index dropped 2.5 percent to 96.6, according
to a  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute Aug. 6-10
survey of 1,200 consumers released in Sydney today. A government
report showed the  wage-price  index, which measures hourly pay
rates excluding bonuses, rose 3.7 percent in the second quarter
from 12 months earlier as mine workers’ pay surged.  The acceleration in wage gains was “a material surprise,
and raises the uncomfortable prospect that wage pressures may
have troughed,” said Alvin Pontoh, an Asia-Pacific strategist
at TD Securities Inc. in  Singapore . “The surprise fall in
consumer confidence in the face of a generally positive backdrop
casts doubt on the sustainability of the pickup in consumer
spending we have seen of late.”  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia , which lowered interest rates
by 1.25 percentage points from November to June to 3.5 percent
and paused at the past two meetings, has indicated wages need to
remain contained and productivity improve to ensure inflation
stays within its target of 2 percent to 3 percent. Traders are
pricing in a 67 percent chance the RBA will keep the benchmark
on hold when it meets next month.  Minerals, Energy  Powering growth is Australia’s biggest mining boom since a
gold rush in the 1850s. The latest bonanza -- for  iron ore , coal
and natural gas -- is bringing investment projects the
government estimates to be worth A$500 billion ($524 billion).  The resources boom has underpinned Australia’s currency,
which has closed above parity with the  U.S. dollar  for all but
23 days this year, compared with an average of about 75 U.S.
cents since its December 1983 float, and hurt the manufacturing
and tourism industries.  Today’s wage report showed hourly rates of pay at mining
companies increased 5.2 percent from a year earlier, the biggest
gain among the 18 industries surveyed by the statistics bureau,
and wholesale trade pay added 4.8 percent. Health-care workers’
income advanced by the least, at 2.6 percent, and retail
employees earned 2.7 percent more, the report showed.  The wages data were “a tad high and fall on the side of
the ledger which suggests that the RBA will stay on the
sidelines for a bit longer and monitor global and domestic
developments,” said Su-Lin Ong, head of Australian economic and
fixed-income strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney.  Weaker Currency  The local currency dropped earlier today after the consumer
confidence report showed lingering household concern about
 Europe ’s fiscal turmoil and slower growth in China. At the same
time, the government is seeking to return the budget to surplus
and the Australian dollar has risen since the RBA’s last rate
cut on June 5.  “With fiscal policy consolidating and the Australian
dollar likely to remain high, adjustments in monetary policy are
likely to be the only policy option available if further
assistance is required,”  Bill Evans , Westpac’s chief economist,
said in a statement after the release. “Private-sector interest
rates are only slightly below average levels. There is adequate
scope for further monetary assistance.”  The local currency fell for a fourth straight day, touching
$1.0465, the lowest level since Aug. 3, and headed for its first
weekly decline in six weeks.  RBA Outlook  Evans said Westpac doesn’t expect a rate cut at the RBA’s
Sept. 4 meeting. “However, despite current media speculation,
we do believe that the case for further cuts is likely to be
clear by the December quarter,” he said.  Asian stocks declined today, with the MSCI Asia Pacific
Index of shares falling 0.5 percent to 119.81 at 12:14 p.m. in
 Tokyo .  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, a report may show
 Malaysia ’s gross domestic product expanded 4.6 percent from a
year earlier in the second quarter following a 4.7 percent
increase in the previous three months, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  China  is due to release foreign direct investment data for
July this week, which may have declined from a year earlier
after falling 6.9 percent in June as economic growth cooled,
according to a separate survey.  In Europe, the  Bank of England  is scheduled to release
minutes of its August policy meeting, and a survey of economists
showed U.K. jobless-benefit claims may have risen 6,000 in July.  U.S. Data  A Federal Reserve report in the U.S. may show industrial
production strengthened in July, rising 0.5 percent, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists, as
automakers boosted output and hot weather put greater demand on
utilities.  Recent Australian data have shown stronger  consumer
spending , fueled by A$2 billion in government carbon rebates and
benefit checks paid out since May, as well as the RBA rate cuts.
Retail sales in June matched the biggest advance since April
2011.  Australia’s unemployment rate has remained in a range of 5
percent to 5.3 percent for the past 15 months. The economy added
jobs in four of the past five months and unemployment declined
to 5.2 percent in July from a revised 5.3 percent in the prior
month, a government report showed Aug. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  