-- Aveng Falls Most in 5 Weeks on Earnings Drop: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-08-15T15:16:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/aveng-falls-most-in-2-years-on-earnings-drop-johannesburg-mover.html
Aveng Ltd. (AEG) ,  South Africa ’s largest
construction company by market value, fell the most in more than
five weeks after saying earnings per share slumped as much as 60
percent.  Aveng slid  as much as  4.9 percent and closed 2.8 percent
lower, its biggest daily drop since July 9, at 34.76 rand in
Johannesburg.  Earnings per share excluding one-time items in the year
through June fell as the South African construction and
engineering unit incurred a “substantial loss” as it continued
to have unresolved claims at two of the country’s coal-fired
power plants, Johannesburg-based Aveng said in a statement
today. The two-year order book increased 2 percent to 47 billion
rand ($5.7 billion). The company made provision for a potential
competition authority settlement, it said.  “The earnings are disappointing with Aveng unable to sort
out its contract issues and the payment claims at Medupi and
Kusile not yet resolved,” Dirk Noeth, an analyst at Avior, said
by phone from  Cape Town . “The order book growth is stagnant and
the provision for the competition commission fine is weighing on
the shares.”  Noeth said he had expected earnings per share excluding
one-time items to be as much as 30 percent lower.  Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., South Africa’s state-run power
utility, awarded a 2.9 billion-rand contract in 2008 to build
the Medupi plant to a group including Aveng and  Murray & Roberts
Holdings Ltd. (MUR)  Medupi is scheduled to start generating power next
year instead of the final quarter of 2012, while work at the
Kusile plant was stopped last year by labor protests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  