-- Lawmakers Say Wal-Mart Probe Explores Money Laundering
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/lawmakers-say-wal-mart-probe-explores-money-laundering.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is coming under
increasing pressure from U.S. lawmakers who say the company’s
internal corruption investigation is widening beyond Mexico and
may include new allegations of  tax evasion  and money laundering.  Maryland Representative  Elijah Cummings  and California
Representative  Henry Waxman , both Democrats, said in a letter to
Wal-Mart Chief Executive Officer Michael Duke that Wal-Mart de
Mexico SAB, Latin America’s largest retailer, may have engaged
in money laundering and tax evasion in Mexico. The letter also
said the investigation is looking at five nations besides Mexico
“where risk was greatest.”  The two legislators wrote a letter in June to Wal-Mart,
accusing the retailer of not providing documents and access to
witnesses that they had previously requested. In a second
letter, dated Aug. 14, they said they were giving the
Bentonville, Arkansas-based company a final opportunity to
respond to requests for information.  “To date, you have not produced a single document we have
requested,” they said in the letter.  Wal-Mart is accused of violating the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act by systematically bribing Mexican officials to
open stores more quickly in the country. The bribes allegedly
took place as recently as 2005. The scheme was first brought to
light in April by the  New York  Times.  Lorenzo Lopez , a Wal-Mart spokesman, declined to comment.  Internal Findings  The lawmakers asked for documents detailing any internal
findings related to the corruption probe and explaining how Wal-
Mart is changing its protocols for handling such issues.  “In addition, we have obtained internal company documents,
including internal audit reports, from other sources suggesting
that Wal-Mart may have had compliance issues relating not only
to bribery, but also to ‘questionable financial behavior’
including tax evasion and money laundering in Mexico,” the
lawmakers wrote in the letter.  Cummings is a ranking member of the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, and Waxman is a ranking member of
the House Energy and Commerce Committee.  Wal-Mart rose 0.6 percent to $74.45 yesterday at the New
York close.  The shares  have gained 25 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net  