-- Bats Plans Retail Program to Compete With NYSE Initiative
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-08-15T01:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/bats-plans-retail-program-to-compete-with-nyse-initiative.html
Bats Global Markets Inc., the third-
largest U.S. stock exchange operator, plans to create a  program 
to draw orders from individuals to one of its two markets.  The company asked the Securities and Exchange Commission
for permission to compete with the  New York  Stock Exchange’s
initiative to attract buy and sell requests from smaller
investors by offering better prices than are available to other
market participants.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and Direct Edge
Holdings LLC have said they’re also working on plans similar to
NYSE’s 12-month pilot program, which began on Aug. 1.  Exchanges are eyeing orders sent to so-called equity
wholesalers, a category of market makers that executes orders
for individuals supplied by brokers such as  TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. (AMTD)  and Charles Schwab Corp. Knight Capital Group
Inc., Citadel LLC, UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. are the largest
wholesalers trading orders away from exchanges at prices that
match or improve on the levels offered publicly, a business
known as internalization.  “This is a play for market share,” Alison Crosthwait,
former managing director for global trading strategy at broker
Instinet Inc. in Toronto, said in a phone interview. “Exchanges
are better regulated and have more transparency, but the
difference is not huge. It’s more about competition between
exchanges and internalizers,” she said.  Better Quotes  The SEC must approve yesterday’s filing from Lenexa,
Kansas-based Bats before its retail price improvement program
can become effective. The initiative allows the exchange’s
member firms to supply quotes that are at least a tenth of 1
cent better than the best price at which other market
participants can trade. The orders will not be displayed
publicly, as is also the case at NYSE.  Daily U.S. equity volume  averaged  6.66 billion this year,
15 percent less than the average from last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 8.52 billion in
2010. On Aug. 13, volume of 4.5 billion shares reached the
lowest level since at least 2008, excluding holidays.  “A significant percentage of the orders of individual
investors are executed over-the-counter,” Bats BYX Exchange
said in its  filing . About a third of U.S. equities volume takes
place away from exchanges, including orders from retail clients
that can be executed immediately, according to  data  compiled by
Bats. “The exchange believes that it is appropriate to create a
financial incentive to bring more retail flow to the public
market,” Bats said.  Orderly Markets  The Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
told the SEC in a March  letter  that “sub-penny increments would
not contribute to the maintenance of orderly markets” and
discrimination among users should be discussed more thoroughly
before NYSE’s program was implemented. It urged the SEC not to
approve the project.  Knight, based in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , experienced a
software malfunction that led to a $440 million loss when it
made changes to get ready for NYSE’s program on Aug. 1. Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce said the mishap wasn’t
NYSE’s fault. Knight ceded most of the company to six investors
led by Jefferies Group Inc. that provided $400 million in equity
financing on Aug. 6.  Transactions involving almost 2.7 million shares with an
average of $0.0016 in price improvement per share took place
through  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s retail liquidity program on Aug. 9, the
company said in a  statement  the next day. The average trade size
in the program was about 2,300 shares, compared to less than 300
in NYSE-listed companies at the exchange operator. Brokers
provided superior prices to individual investors across more
than 540 companies, the company said.  Getco, Tradebot  Brokers supplying orders for retail clients on NYSE include
high-frequency firms Hudson River Trading LLC, Getco LLC, RGM
Advisors LLC, Tradebot Systems Inc. and two units of Virtu
Financial LLC, the company said. Keara Everdell, a spokeswoman
for NYSE Euronext in New York, said the exchange operator is
pleased with the “early success” of its program.  Bats will allow retail customers to receive executions at
multiple prices, enabling them to get the benefit of shares
available across different bids if they’re selling stock or many
offers if they’re buying. NYSE provides executions at a single
price -- the lowest bid or highest offer within the  program  that
completes the investor’s transaction.  “We believe customers will find the Bats RPI program to be
a more innovative approach because it will maximize price
improvement for those who use it,”  Randy Williams , a spokesman
at Bats, said in an e-mail.  Providing Liquidity  Any Bats member firm can supply bids and offers to retail
customers. Unlike the NYSE program, Bats won’t have separate
groups of firms with different fees providing liquidity.  William O’Brien , CEO of Direct Edge, said last month his
company would offer a plan that focuses on improving both the
price and size of executions for retail customers. The company
is preparing a regulatory filing for its version for retail
investors, Jim Gorman, a spokesman, said yesterday.  Nasdaq OMX also intends to compete with NYSE’s retail
liquidity program.  The New York-based company’s effort will take the form of
automated auctions for orders from individuals,  Eric Noll ,
executive vice president for transaction services, said at a
conference on May 10. A  written presentation  said the auctions
will be similar to those run on U.S. options exchanges, in which
market makers vie to win the investor’s order by providing the
best price. The auctions last less than a second.  -- With assistance from Rita Nazareth and Julia Leite in New
York. Editors: Chris Nagi,  Jeff Sutherland   To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 