-- Bin Hammam Says He’ll Fight to Clear Name Over Latest FIFA Probe
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-15T01:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/bin-hammam-says-he-ll-fight-to-clear-name-over-latest-fifa-probe.html
Mohamed  Bin Hammam  said he’ll fight
to clear his name again after FIFA opened a new investigation
into its former presidential candidate, who had his lifetime ban
from soccer annulled by the top sports court last month.  FIFA said Aug. 10 that its ethics panel was investigating
allegations of financial wrongdoing while Bin Hammam was head of
the Asian Football Confederation and was also seeking more
evidence that the Qatari tried to buy votes before last year’s
FIFA elections.  Bin Hammam , 63, was given a 30-day suspension by the AFC on
July 17 after an audit of the regional governing body’s
accounts. FIFA extended the ban globally on July 26 by
provisionally suspending him from any soccer activity for 90
days. In a letter to AFC members obtained by Bloomberg News, Bin
Hammam said he would challenge what he described as “vindictive
actions to destroy me and my reputation.”  “My legal team has filed an immediate response to the
actions of the AFC and FIFA in relation to my latest politically
motivated ban,” he said. “I will announce further steps very
shortly to challenge this clear abuse of power and process at
the hand of FIFA.”  Bin Hammam’s life ban was overturned July 19 by the Court
of Arbitration for Sport, which ruled that an inquiry by former
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation head  Louis Freeh  on behalf of
FIFA failed to find enough evidence that Bin Hammam was the
source of envelopes stuffed with $40,000 and handed to Caribbean
soccer officials before the presidential election.  Bin Hammam challenged Sepp Blatter for the presidency last
year before withdrawing three days before the vote.  CAS Ruling  The Lausanne, Switzerland-based Court of Arbitration said
that, although it upheld Bin Hammam’s appeal against his life
ban, it didn’t mean he was innocent of the charges and the case
could be reopened if evidence related to events in the Caribbean
was found by FIFA’s new independent investigators.  On July 17, FIFA named former U.S. attorney Michael J. Garcia as head investigator for its ethics committee and German
judge Hans-Joachim Eckert to lead the adjudicatory branch. It
said nine days later that Eckert provisionally banned Bin Hammam
at Garcia’s request.  Bin Hammam’s AFC ban followed a forensic audit that
centered on contract negotiations and payments to and from the
Kuala Lumpur-based organization’s bank accounts. He said in the
letter that the payments were made from his own accounts to
individuals for welfare reasons including cancer treatment and
tuition fees.  “This was my money and had nothing to do with the AFC,”
Bin Hammam said. “Any assistance was personal in nature and
from my heart.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  