-- Blackstone Energy Fund Said to Raise Up to $2.5 Billion
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-08-15T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/blackstone-energy-fund-said-to-raise-up-to-2-5-billion.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
biggest private-equity firm, plans a final close for its debut
energy fund at the end of the month with $2.2 billion to $2.5
billion, according to two people with knowledge of the fund.  The firm began marketing Blackstone Energy Partners LP last
year with a limit of $3 billion. The fund received permission
from investors to extend fundraising through Aug. 31 from June
30, said the people, who asked not to be named because the
information is private.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for New York-based Blackstone,
declined to comment.  Private-equity energy funds brought in $30.3 billion last
year, a decline of 19 percent, according to Preqin Ltd., a
London-based research firm. Increasing competition for investors
hasn’t stopped Blackstone, along with firms including Kayne
Anderson Capital Advisors LP, Riverstone Holdings LLC and First
Reserve Corp., from seeking capital for deals in the industry.  Kayne Anderson, based in  Los Angeles , has raised more than
$1.1 billion for a fund that will invest in private gas and oil
companies, according to two people familiar with the situation.
Kayne Anderson Energy Fund VI LP, which is seeking $1.6 billion,
held a second close in July. The firm’s prior fund fell short of
its $820 million goal in 2009. It’s currently generating more
than its targeted 20 percent to 30 percent gross internal rate
of return, said one of the people.  First Reserve  Greg Davis, a senior vice president at Kayne Anderson,
declined to comment.  First Reserve is seeking $6 billion for its next energy and
natural-resources fund, according to a private-placement
memorandum viewed by Bloomberg. Riverstone Holdings is nearing
the $5 billion mark for its latest fund, which is seeking $6
billion, according to a person familiar with matter. Officials
for the firms declined to comment.  The new Blackstone energy fund will invest in energy and
natural resource-related deals globally, according to a private-
placement memorandum viewed by Bloomberg. It will target
industries including oil and gas exploration and production,
midstream, energy services and equipment, petroleum refining,
power generation and renewable, metals, minerals and timber.  The company decided to raise a dedicated energy fund to
take advantage of “extraordinary” investment opportunities in
energy and natural resources without overexposing its flagship
fund, according to marketing documents. Energy investments
generally will be split between Blackstone Energy Partners and
Blackstone Capital Partners VI LP.  Blackstone has been investing in energy and natural
resources since 1997. Senior managing director  David Foley  is
chief executive officer of Blackstone Energy Partners. Foley has
worked with Prakash Melwani, the chief investment officer, for
more than eight years. Both men worked on investments in  Kosmos
Energy Ltd. (KOS) , Foundation Coal Holdings Inc. and Texas Genco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  