-- Blast at Syrian Army HQ as U.S. Accuses Iran on New Militia
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-08-15T16:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/blast-at-syrian-army-hq-as-u-s-accuses-iran-on-syrian-militia.html
A bomb exploded close to  Syria ’s
army headquarters, sending a column of black smoke over the
capital Damascus, as the U.S. accused  Iran  of training a new
militia to reinforce Bashar al-Assad’s government.  Explosives attached to a fuel truck blew up in a parking
space at the army building, injuring three people, according to
Syrian state television. Al Jazeera television broadcast footage
showing smoke billowing into the sky over central Damascus.
 United Nations  monitors are based close to the site though none
of them was hurt, said Corinne Momal-Vanian, a UN spokeswoman in
Geneva.  Today’s explosion marked the latest attack by opponents of
the government in the heart of the Syrian capital and came four
weeks after another blast killed key members of the president’s
inner circle including his brother-in-law and defense minister.
A UN-brokered cease-fire, agreed in April, has failed to halt 17
months of fighting that’s killed more than 21,000 people,
according to an estimate from the opposition Syrian Observatory
for  Human Rights .  The attack came hours after U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  accused Iran of training a new militia force drawn from
the minority Shiite and Alawite communities to bolster Assad’s
government. The discovery of the force, known as “the Army of
the People,” is a matter of deep concern, Panetta told
journalists in  Washington .  Syrian Army  The Syrian armed forces are “taxed” after more than a
year of fighting and “that’s why Iran is stepping in to form
this militia, to take some of the pressure off of the Syrian
military,” Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, told the same meeting.  After almost a year and a half of constant operations, the
Syrian army has problems with resupply, maintenance and morale,
Dempsey said. While the rebels probably shot down a MiG-23 that
crashed on Aug. 13, that may have been caused by small-arms
fire.  “It would be a mistake at this point to assume the
opposition has surface-to-air missile capability,” he said.  Rebels are starting to receive large arms shipments,
including supplies from western  Europe  and  Israel , Khalid al-
Aboud, secretary of Syria’s parliament, told reporters in Moscow
by video link from Damascus today. Syria has previously blamed
the U.S.,  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar for supplying arms to its
opponents.  War Crimes  Syrian forces and Shabiha fighters have committed crimes
against humanity, the UN Independent International Commission of
Inquiry on Syria said today in its latest report on the human-
rights situation. Murder and torture, war crimes and gross
violations of international human rights and humanitarian law
“were committed pursuant to state policy, pointing to the
involvement at the highest levels,” according to a press
release issued by the Geneva-based  Human Rights Council , which
commissioned the 102-page report.  The commission also found that government forces and
Shabiha were responsible for the killings of more than 100
civilians, almost half of whom were children, at Houla on May
25. While rebels have also committed  war crimes  including
murder, extrajudicial killings and torture, “these violations
and abuses were not of the same gravity, frequency and scale as
those committed by government forces and the Shabiha.”  UN Monitors  Russia , meanwhile, urged the UN to extend the mandate for
its observers in Syria, saying that their departure would
further undermine stability in the country and the region,
Interfax reported, citing the Foreign Ministry. The mandate is
due to end on Aug. 19, according to Lieutenant General Babacar
Gaye, head of the monitoring force.  Syrian government forces killed 50 people today, according
to the Local Coordination Committees, an opposition group.
Clashes were taking place between the Free Syrian Army and
government forces behind the Iranian embassy in Damascus, while
heavy shelling and clashes continued in several other areas, the
LCC said by e-mail.  The  Organization of Islamic Cooperation  opened a two-day
summit yesterday in the Saudi Arabian city of Mecca to consider
further isolating Syria through exclusion from the 57-member
group. Iran has set the scene for a diplomatic showdown by
pledging to oppose the move.  The meeting is being attended by Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  together with leaders from other Muslim states who
are being asked to agree to the move as a response to Syria’s
civil conflict. Syria was suspended from the  Arab League  in
November.  “Syria should remain as a powerful, Islamic country,”
Ahmadinejad said, according to the Iranian state television
website. Instead of seeking talks and consultation, “some of
our friends and brothers” have been “dispatching weapons into
Syria and encouraging killings,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  