-- BOE Drops Reference to Rate Cut as It Considers Policy Options
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-08-15T09:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/boe-will-assess-other-policy-options-based-on-loan-plan-impact.html
Bank of England policy makers
dropped a reference to  interest-rate  cuts this month as they
voted to keep their bond-purchase target unchanged and said they
will assess the need for other stimulus measures.  The Monetary Policy Committee voted 9-0 to hold  the target 
at 375 billion pounds ($587 billion), according to the minutes
of the Aug. 1-2 meeting, published in London today. It also
voted 9-0 to keep the benchmark interest rate at a record-low
0.5 percent.  “Over the coming months, the committee could take stock of
the impact of the Funding for Lending Scheme and the
implications this had for other potential policy options,” it
said, without mentioning rates. While for some members this
month’s decision was “relatively straightforward,” others saw
a “good case” for more asset purchases, it said.  The central bank said last month it may review the merits
of a reduction in  borrowing costs  once it assessed the impact of
the FLS, which is aimed at boosting credit to companies and
households. Investors increased bets on a cut after the comments
before Governor  Mervyn King  lowered expectations, saying on Aug.
8 that it may do more harm than good at present because of
damage to some banks’ margins.  “Interestingly, there was no discussion of an interest-
rate cut that some analysts have called for,” said  James
Knightley , an economist at ING Bank in London. “We have long
doubted that such action would happen given the” central bank’s
concern “about what it would mean for interest margins and bank
lending.”  Sonia forward contracts show that a rate cut isn’t priced
in through July next year, according to data from Tullett Prebon
Plc. Earlier this month, traders were betting on a reduction as
soon as this October.  BOE Forecasts  The central bank cut its growth forecasts last week and
said the outlook is “unusually uncertain.” It sees the economy
shrinking about 0.2 percent this year, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on data published by the central bank today.  In the minutes, it said that some of the 0.7 percent drop
in  second-quarter gross domestic product  was due to one-time
factors and may be partially recovered in the current quarter.
It also said that there were “reasons to believe” that demand
growth would begin to pick up, citing cooling inflation and the
potential impact of the FLS. Still, it added that the
“disappointing pace of recovery” was likely to continue.  The MPC also said that it expects inflation will continue
to ease, though it noted the risk of “external price shocks.”  Lending Program  On the FLS, which is aimed at boosting credit to companies
and households, the  Bank of England  said it was “encouraging
that a number of banks had decided to cut rates on some
mortgages and small-business loans.”  “Indeed, it was possible that the impact” might be
“somewhat greater than the relatively cautious assumptions” in
the central bank’s Inflation Report, it said.  “Set against that, other factors restraining demand were
likely to remain in force or could even worsen,” the bank said.
“The global economy had continued to slow and very substantial
risks remained in the euro area.”  The central bank also noted risks to the effectiveness of
the FLS and its bond-purchase program “if uncertainty and risk
aversion among households and businesses were the dominant
factors holding back spending in the current environment.”  The Bank of England expanded its bond-purchase program by
50 billion pounds in July in a decision that had two dissenters,
Chief Economist Spencer Dale and Ben Broadbent.  “For those members who had voted against the expansion of
the programme at the previous meeting, there were potentially
costs to reversing the previous month’s decision,” the central
bank said in today’s minutes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  