-- BofA Foreclosure Unit Must Heed Rules to Return: State AG
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-15T21:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/bofa-foreclosure-unit-must-heed-rules-to-return-state-ag.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s ReconTrust
Co. unit, sued by  Washington  state for failing to comply with
laws on foreclosure trustees, can’t do business there until it
meets state criteria, Attorney General Rob McKenna said.  ReconTrust, a provider of foreclosure services, failed to
operate as a neutral third-party as required by Washington law,
McKenna alleged in a lawsuit filed a year ago.  The business failed to maintain offices in the state, its
foreclosure notices didn’t identify loan owners, and the notices
provided contradictory information about what borrowers needed
to do to stop the proceedings, McKenna said today in a statement
announcing a settlement of the case.  “ReconTrust is no longer doing business in Washington
state,” the attorney general said. “It may only resume
foreclosures here if it satisfies a long list of conditions
imposed to protect borrowers.”  Based in Richardson,  Texas , ReconTrust provides foreclosure
trustee services in California, Texas,  Arizona ,  Nevada , Virginia
and seven other states, according to its  website .  It previously paid almost $1.1 million to McKenna’s office
as part of Bank of America’s participation in a $25 billion
five-bank national mortgage litigation settlement earlier this
year.  “The consent decree simply formalizes the resolution of an
issue that was settled as part of the multi-state settlement
reached earlier this year,” Bank of America said in an e-mailed
statement. The Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender said it
admitted no wrongdoing in its accord with the state.  “At this time, ReconTrust is not acting as a foreclosure
trustee in Washington,” the bank said.  The case is Washington v. ReconTrust Co., 11-26867-5,
Superior Court, King County, Washington (Seattle).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  