-- Boom-Dependent Australia Needs Productivity Jolt, McKinsey Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-15T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/boom-dependent-australia-needs-productivity-jolt-mckinsey-says.html
Australia ’s resource-led investment
and the windfall it receives from trade with China mask a
slowing in productivity growth that leaves the nation’s economy
vulnerable over the long term, a McKinsey Global Institute
report showed.  Australia’s high terms of trade, or export prices relative
to import prices, and investment accounted for 90 percent of
income growth in the past six years, said Chris Bradley, an
author of the report and principal at McKinsey & Co. in Sydney.
If strong commodity prices and investment don’t continue, A$135
billion ($141 billion) in annual income is at stake, according
to the report by the New York-based consultancy.  “Australia can counteract this threat and raise income by
almost A$90 billion per year through a concerted effort to
restore productivity as the primary engine of Australia’s
growth,” Bradley said in a statement. The world’s sixth-richest
country measured by gross domestic product per capita has
switched from being productivity-driven to being “boom
dependent,” he said.  The report echoes a speech by Treasury official David Gruen
last month. He said that multifactor productivity -- the output
produced from a bundle of labor and capital inputs -- has
“scarcely grown” this decade. While the deterioration in
performance is partly due to unusual developments in mining and
utilities, the slowdown from the 1990s is evident across most
industries, he said.  Productivity Reliance  “The gains in Australian living standards of the past
decade were more easily achieved than in the 1990s, but they
were achieved in ways that cannot be replicated,” Gruen,
executive director of the Treasury’s macroeconomic group, said
in the July 10  speech . “The gains of the next decade will rely
overwhelmingly on improvements in productivity.”  Labor productivity  has risen by 0.3 percent a year since
2005, adding A$17 billion in income annually, down from A$57
billion in the 1990s, McKinsey said.  “A focus on capital productivity is a new and important
imperative for the Australian economy, due to the sheer size and
scale of our pipeline of  capital investment ,” Bradley said.  McKinsey’s report outlines four possible scenarios for
Australia’s income growth:
• ‘Paradise’ -- 3.7 percent annual growth if the terms of trade
remain high and productivity is restored
• ‘Lucky escape’ -- 2.4 percent if the terms of trade stay
elevated and productivity stays stagnant
• ‘Earned rewards’ -- 1.8 percent per year if the terms of trade
fall while productivity is revived
• ‘Hangover’ -- 0.5 percent per year, or almost no income
growth, if the worst-case scenario occurs for both the terms of
trade and productivity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  