-- Branson Ejected From U.K. Rail as FirstGroup Wins Routes
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r
-- 2012-08-15T11:38:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/branson-ejected-from-u-k-rail-as-firstgroup-wins-west-coast-bid.html
Richard Branson  plans to quit the
U.K. rail business after  FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  won a contract to run
Britain’s premier express route with a bid he said reflects the
“insanity” of the franchise system and could end in bankruptcy.  The West Coast line, operated by Virgin Trains since 1997,
will be transferred to FirstGroup for at least 13 years from
Dec. 9 in a deal generating 5.5 billion pounds ($8.6 billion)
for the government, the Department for Transport said. The RMT
union said that the winning tender, worth more than Virgin’s, is
based on a “massive cuts plan” that it will oppose.  The decision excludes Branson from the U.K. rail industry
for the first time since its privatization. The Virgin founder
said he made a “strong and deliverable” offer for the West Coast
line, which transports 31 million people a year between  London 
and the cities of Birmingham, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Liverpool and
Manchester, and that he’s unlikely to ever run a railway again.  “To have bid more would have involved dramatic cuts to
customer quality and considerable fare rises, which we were
unwilling to entertain,” Branson said in a statement. “We also
did not want to risk letting everybody down with almost certain
bankruptcy at some time during the franchise. Sadly the
government has chosen to take that risk with FirstGroup.”  Winner Falls  Shares of Aberdeen, Scotland-based  FirstGroup fell  as much
as 9.6 percent and were trading 7.9 percent lower at 238.5 pence
as of 12:04 p.m. in London. The stock has declined 29 percent
this year, valuing the company at 1.15 billion pounds.  Perth, Scotland-based  Stagecoach Group Plc (SGC) , which owns 49
percent of Virgin Trains and said it was “disappointed” with the
government’s decision, traded 0.7 percent higher. The stock has
advanced 6.1 percent this year. Virgin is closely held.  Branson, who established Virgin Trains with a pledge to
bring a flavor of travel with his Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd.
brand to the railway, said West Coast could go the same way as
the East Coast route, from which winning bidder  National Express
Group Plc (NEX)  withdrew after revenue fell during the global slump,
forcing the government to re-nationalize the service.  Virgin Trains has now been outbid for franchises on four
occasions, and in three of those cases the winning operator has
come “nowhere close to delivering their promised plans and
revenue,” Branson said, adding: “Insanity is doing the same
thing over and over again and expecting different results.”  Flawed Process  Bidding for West Coast cost 14 million pounds, the
entrepreneur said, with the process too costly and uncertain.  “Based on the current flawed system, it is extremely
unlikely that we would bid again for a franchise,” he added.  Transport Minister Theresa Villiers said in a statement
that the award will deliver passenger improvements. Eleven 125-
mile-per-hour, six-car electric units will be ordered, totaling
12,000 seats a day, and FirstGroup has pledged to cut the cost
of standard anytime fares by 15 percent in the first two years
and add trains to Blackpool, Telford, Shrewsbury and Bolton.  FirstGroup will also provide 10 million pounds of
shareholder capital, a 45 million-pound performance bond and a
190 million-pound subordinated loan to support its bid, the DfT
said, though the company could still walk away from the contract
without defaulting on its four other rail franchises.  Villiers said in a BBC television interview that she’s
hopeful Virgin will stay in the rail market, though “that is of
course a matter for them.”  ‘Modal Shift’  The West Coast business, which currently generates annual
sales of about 900 million pounds, will deliver an operating
profit equal to about 5 percent of revenue over the span of the
deal, according to FirstGroup. Chief Executive Officer Tim O’Toole said its bid is justified by the ability to maintain
compound annual revenue growth at 10 percent by adding capacity.  The job total will be “flat” through the life of the
franchise he said, though positions may be created in areas such
as catering as FirstGroup carries out a complete rebranding.
Seats will also be renewed and more luggage space added.  “Of course we want to see buoyant economic conditions,”
O’Toole said on a conference call. “But we are in the middle of
a long-term modal shift and this is a corridor where we are
going to see growth in both professional and leisure travel.”  The RMT said FirstGroup’s bid contains “a billion-pound
black hole” and requires cuts of 20 percent “across the board.”
The union is preparing a ballot on industrial action to defend
800 train-crew jobs now “on the block” as on-board shops and
catering are reconfigured to add seats, it said in a statement.  Pricier Tickets  Maria Eagle, transport spokeswoman for the opposition
 Labour Party , said in a statement that the government must show
it has “not been swayed by an unrealistic bid that does not in
the end deliver the payments that have been promised,” adding
that it may prove tough to increase revenue through passenger
growth, given “severe and worsening capacity constraints.”  The West Coast tender also permits fare increases of 8
percent above retail price inflation in 2013 and 2014 and 6
percent for the rest of the franchise, she said. Companies can
lift prices by RPI -- currently running at 3.2 percent -- plus 3
percentage points from January, while a fares-flexibility option
allows for a further 5-point raise, making 11.2 percent overall.  CrossCountry Loss  Branson’s remarks suggest he could seek a judicial review
of today’s award, delaying the handover, according to Patrick
Twist, a rail expert at law firm  Pinsent Masons , though a
challenge would require him to show that the decision was
“perverse,” something that would be tough to do.  “The process does go beyond ‘highest bidder wins, but not
as much as you’d think, and one suspects that cash is always the
primary consideration,” Twist said by telephone.  Virgin Trains lost its only other contract, the long-
distance CrossCountry network, in 2007. French state rail
operator SNCF and NV Nederlandse Spoorwegen of the Netherlands
had also bid for the West Coast contract.  FirstGroup already runs the Great Western route to  Wales 
and southwest  England , against which it took a 59.9 million-
pound charge last year in turning down a three-year contract
extension to boost its chances of retaining the franchise for a
longer period. The new term will begin in 2013 and run for 15
years, with the winner better able than at present to influence
development of a line earmarked for electrification.  West Coast benefited from a 9 billion-pound upgrade that
was  Europe ’s biggest construction project last decade. At the
same time, the work led to closures at weekends and on holidays,
frustrating Virgin’s ability to get the best from a 583 million-
pound fleet of Pendolino trains that tilt into corners, boosting
speeds on a 175-year-old route that’s 70 percent curved.  Banks, Gyms  Branson had been keen to develop some of the stations on
the 1,660-mile West Coast network to include innovations such as
bank branches after his Virgin Money Holdings U.K. Ltd. agreed
to buy Northern Rock Plc last year for 747 million pounds.  While some West Coast stations such as Crewe and Preston
serve limited local populations, they’re also major interchanges
with extensive buildings, many of them unoccupied, offering
scope to accommodate expanded retail sites, as well as more
novel facilities such as business centers and gyms. Branson’s
Virgin Group includes the Virgin Active health club chain.  SNCF last month signed a deal with Regus Plc to open six
“drop-in” business centers at railway stations in  France ,
offering workspace equipped with printers, scanners and video-
communication facilities for as little as 10 minutes a session.  The French company said that it, too, was disappointed with
the outcome of the West Coast contest, though it’s still
committed to the U.K. market, where future tenders will be
judged on their merits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  