-- Brazil’s Banco Cruzeiro Seeks Tender Offer Amid Writedown
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2012-08-15T18:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/brazil-s-banco-cruzeiro-seeks-tender-offer-amid-writedown.html
Banco Cruzeiro do Sul SA’s $1.6
billion of bonds plunged after the deposit-insurance fund
overseeing the Brazilian bank began a repurchasing offer that
will saddle creditors with losses of as much as 74 percent.  Cruzeiro do Sul’s $400 million of subordinated notes due
2020 fell 1 cent to 30 cents on the dollar after the fund, known
as FGC, offered 31 cents for the bonds to investors who tender
by Aug. 28 and 26 cents afterward. The bank’s bonds due 2016
fell 9.25 to 47.75 cents at 2:34 p.m. in  Sao Paulo , according to
Trace, the bond price-reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. FGC offered 56 cents on those notes to
creditors who sell by Aug. 28.  The discounted bond repurchase is part of the deposit-
insurance fund’s attempt to cover a capital shortfall after
Cruzeiro do Sul took a writedown of 3.11 billion reais ($1.5
billion). An audit requested by the fund, known as FGC, found
accounting violations that included the balance sheet showing
more than 1.3 billion in assets that don’t exist, FGC officials
said at a press briefing yesterday in Sao Paulo.  “There are a couple doubts in the market, but I believe
the market has to accept the tender,” Luiz Campos, an emerging-
market portfolio manager at Dinosaur Securities LLC, said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. If the deal falls through
and “the bank goes to liquidation, bondholders will lose more
money.”  Sale Plans  Central bankers seized Cruzeiro do Sul on June 4 after
finding “unsubstantiated asset items” and placed it under the
temporary administration of the privately owned FGC amid a probe
into possible accounting fraud. The fund requested the audit by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLC as part of its effort to find a buyer
for the bank.  “We divided up the losses in a fair way,” Celso Antunes da Costa, the FGC’s executive director, said at yesterday’s
briefing. “We’ve found a way to save the bank.”  The FGC plans to sell the bank by Sept. 12 and will
recommend liquidation if that fails, Antunes said. A minimum of
90 percent of creditors must accept the repurchase offer for it
to proceed, he said. The deal is also dependent on the FGC
receiving a binding offer from a financial institution to
acquire control of Cruzeiro do Sul, according to today’s
statement.  The average discount that Cruzeiro’s local and
international creditors are being asked to accept is 49 percent,
Antunes said. In addition to the dollar bonds due in 2016 and
2020, the buyback also includes securities due in 2012, 2013,
2014 and 2015.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are
arranging the bond repurchase offer.  Creditors Huddle  “I don’t think people will accept” the repurchase terms,
Carlos Legaspy, who manages about $350 million at Precise
Securities and bought Cruzeiro do Sul senior bonds after the
lender was taken over by the FGC, said in a telephone interview
from  San Diego . “It becomes a game of chicken, to see who
blinks first.”  Bingham McCutchen LLP, a Boston-based  law firm , plans to
hold a conference call with bondholders tomorrow after being
contacted by “a number of” them, Timothy DeSieno, a partner at
the firm, said in an e-mailed statement today.  “The proposed sequencing -- ‘creditors make concessions
now, and we will figure out the rest later’ -- is consistent
with behavior in recent years in many stressed bank
situations,” DeSieno said in the statement. “Experience shows
that investors are best served to be well-organized with a
credible alternative plan at a very early time.”  Stock Plunges  Cruzeiro do Sul is at least the sixth mid-size Brazilian
bank to need emergency action from regulators since 2010 as the
industry struggles to get long-term financing and  Latin
America ’s biggest economy slows.  Banco BTG Pactual SA, the Sao Paulo-based bank controlled
by billionaire  Andre Esteves , acquired Banco Panamericano SA in
January 2011. BTG received a 1.3 billion-real loan from the FGC
to help finance the acquisition of Panamericano, which faced an
accounting-fraud probe. The central bank liquidated Rio de
Janeiro-based lender Banco Morada SA in April 2011.  Cruzeiro do Sul’s shares fell 6.1 percent to 1.68 reais
today, extending losses this year to 88 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  