-- Brazil Mobile Carriers Face Removal of Dropped-Call Fees
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-08-15T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/brazil-mobile-carriers-face-removal-of-dropped-call-fees.html
Brazilian wireless carriers may lose
revenue under a government proposal designed to cut down on fees
by increasing the time users can restart dropped calls without
incurring an extra charge.  Under the plan approved yesterday by telecommunications
agency Anatel, a user who experiences a dropped call would be
able to reconnect within two minutes without being charged for a
new call. Current rules stipulate a time limit of 30 seconds for
restarting a call at no extra charge.  Brazilian carriers offer some wireless plans that charge by
the phone call instead of by the minute. Should the proposal be
adopted it would cut into the revenue of Telefonica Brasil SA,
 Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) ,  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  and  Oi SA (OIBR4) , the nation’s
largest wireless carriers. The plan now faces a public
consultation, Anatel Superintendent Bruno Ramos said yesterday.  “If the call drops, no matter what the user’s plan of
 service , it will have to be charged only as a single call,”
Ramos said in an interview in Brasilia. “The measure provides
an enormous benefit for users on plans that charge per call.”  Anatel allowed Tim, America Movil and Oi to restart sales
of new plans on Aug. 3 after they said they would improve their
networks. The agency suspended sales in some states for 11 days,
citing complaints about service including dropped calls.  Anatel reached its decision on removing dropped-call
charges after the close of trading yesterday.  Telefonica Brasil, a unit of Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
fell 0.7 percent to 49.51 reais in Sao Paulo yesterday. Tim, a
division of  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , gained 0.9 percent to 8.61
reais. Rio de Janeiro-based Oi slid 2.2 percent to 8.90 reais.
America Movil gained 1.5 percent to 17.08 pesos in Mexico City,
where it is based.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  