-- Brazil Will Sell Licenses for $66 Billion of Roads and Rails
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   M a r i a   L u i z a   R a b e l l o
-- 2012-08-15T17:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/brazil-will-sell-licenses-for-66-billion-of-roads-and-rails-2-.html
Brazil ’s government will sell
licenses to build and operate roads and railways requiring as
much as 133 billion reais ($66 billion) in investments over 30
years to help boost growth in the world’s sixth-largest economy.  The government will sell licenses for private companies to
operate 7,500 kilometers (4,660 miles) of roads and 10,000
kilometers of railways, Transport Minister Paulo Sergio Passos
said during a ceremony in Brasilia today.  “Brazil is offering an extraordinary investment
opportunity in an environment of economic and institutional
stability,” President  Dilma Rousseff  said at the event.  Inadequate road and rail infrastructure has limited
Brazil’s growth potential as the country prepares to host the
2014 World Cup soccer tournament and the 2016  Olympic Games .
Rousseff said the new projects will help solve infrastructure
challenges that stem from a decade without investment.  Brazil’s economy will grow 1.8 percent this year, according
to the latest central bank survey, down from 2.7 percent last
year and marking the second-slowest pace since 2003. The
flagging economy caused  tax revenue  in June to fall from a year
earlier for the first time since November 2010.  “Today we begin a new stage of the development model,”
Rousseff said in her speech. At a press conference after the
ceremony she said the measures will help the country grow at a
steady 4.5 percent to 5 percent a year.  Investment Burden  Sharing the investment burden for railway projects with the
government will make them more attractive to private companies,
Luciana Nazar, director at Fitch Ratings Ltda.’s global
infrastructure group, said.  “The railway investments are quite high and the internal
rates of return for these projects are quite low,” Nazar said
by telephone from  Sao Paulo . “The only way to make it feasible
is through the public-private partnerships.”  The program calls for 91 billion reais in investment for
10,000 kilometers of new railways, of which 56 billion reais
will be disbursed over the first five years and the remainder
over the following 25 years. To help reduce risk for investors,
a government company will buy new railway capacity from
contractors, thereby assuring demand.  Private contractors for highway concessions will channel 42
billion reais toward 7,500 kilometers, of which 23.5 billion
will be spent over the first five years and 18.5 billion over
the next 20. Projects include the implementation of multiple
lanes for major arteries in several states. The bidder offering
the lowest toll charge will win the road concession.  State development bank BNDES will provide as much as 80
percent financing for the projects, with interest set at 1.5
percent above the  long-term investment rate  for roads and 1
percent above that rate for railways.  Workers’ Party  “We are not selling off state assets to raise cash,”
Rousseff said.  Rousseff’s Workers’ Party (PT) has historically been
opposed to privatization measures. Her government is now
amenable to privatization as a means to guarantee continued
smooth development, said Igor Maresti, associate director in
Fitch’s global infrastructure group, by telephone from Sao Paulo
on Aug. 14.  “If you have to bring in private companies to share the
risk and to bring expertise, they are willing to do that,”
Maresti said.  The government will create a state company to administer
and plan transport projects without operating any of them,
Rousseff said.  Foreign companies will probably participate in the auctions
given a lack of investment opportunities abroad, said Bernardo Figueiredo, head of the new Planning and Logistics Co., to
reporters in Brasilia.  Ports and Airports  The government plans to announce concessions for ports and
airports later this month, Rousseff said without providing
further detail.  Brazil’s national aviation agency, Anac, auctioned the
rights to operate the Guarulhos, Viracopos and Brasilia airports
in February. The winning bidders have a 51 percent stake in the
licenses while state-run airport operator Infraero retained a 49
percent stake in management of the airports.  The next auction will focus on the expansion and
modernization of the Galeao airport in  Rio de Janeiro , Confins
airport in Minas Gerais state and Salvador airport in Bahia
state, an official familiar with the plan said last month.  Concessions for the ports of Sao Luis, Belem, Santarem and
Itacoatiara are to be included in the privatization program,
Senator Katia Abreu, who heads the National Agriculture
Confederation, said in an interview this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net 
Maria Luiza Rabello in Brasilia at 
 mrabello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  