-- Brevan Howard Raising Money in U.S. for Currency Hedge Fund
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-08-15T16:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/brevan-howard-looks-to-u-s-to-raise-money-for-currency-fund.html
Alan Howard ’s  Brevan Howard  Asset
Management LLP,  Europe ’s second-largest hedge fund, is looking
to the U.S. to raise money for a three-year-old investment pool
focused on currencies.  London-based Brevan Howard filed an Aug. 9 private-
placement notice with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to raise an unspecified amount of assets for its
 Macro FX fund . The $1 billion currency fund is managed by Luke Ding, a former Merrill Lynch & Co. foreign exchange trader who
joined Brevan Howard in 2007.  Brevan Howard is boosting its profile in the U.S. as
surveys show American pension funds and endowments are more
bullish on hedge funds than their European counterparts. Brevan
Howard announced last month that it had opened a New York-based
investment firm, and the hedge fund formed a partnership this
year with the Pennsylvania Public School Employees’ Retirement
System to buy mortgage-backed securities.  Brevan Howard officials declined to comment.  U.S. pension funds, endowments and other hedge-fund clients
said their investments in the industry would grow by 15 percent
this year, down from an estimated 17 percent increase in 2011,
according to a  Goldman Sachs & Co. (GS)  survey published in May.  U.K. clients predicted their investments would appreciate
by 14 percent this year, down from 20 percent in 2011. French
investors estimated growth of 7 percent, compared with 25
percent a year earlier, and Scandinavian investors predicted an
increase of 5 percent, down from 26 percent in 2011, according
to New York-based Goldman Sachs. U.S. respondents surveyed by
Goldman Sachs managed about $668 billion, while European
investors oversaw $559 billion.  Macro FX  Brevan Howard, which managed $36.7 billion at the end of
June, started Ding’s Macro FX in 2009. The fund has produced an
average annual gain of 3.6 percent since its inception in
November 2009 through June of this year, compared with a 3.7
percent rise for the  broader industry , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Other hedge funds that trade currencies based on global
economic trends produced an average annual  loss  of 0.9 percent
from November 2009 through June of this year, the most recent
data available from Hedge Fund Research. Such funds have been
hurt by wagers that the European sovereign-debt crisis would
lead to a plunge in the euro.  That bet hasn’t paid off as intervention by politicians has
triggered temporary surges in the single currency’s value over
the course of its 14 percent slide against the  U.S. dollar  since
the end of 2009.  SEC Registration  Brevan Howard is seeking minimum investments of $1 million
for its currency fund, according to the filing. The private-
placement notice it filed allows a hedge fund to raise money
without going through the SEC’s registration process, based on
the regulator’s view that potential investors are sophisticated
and able to fend for themselves.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act required U.S. hedge-fund managers
to register with the SEC this year, which subjects the firms to
routine agency inspections and requires disclosure of leverage
and investment positions to regulators.  While BlueCrest Capital Management LLP and Winton Capital
Management LLC, the third-biggest and fourth-biggest European
hedge funds respectively, are registered, Brevan Howard’s main
investment advisory unit isn’t, according to the SEC website.
The Brevan Howard unit isn’t required to register with the SEC.  Brevan Howard U.S. Investment Management LP, the New York-
based affiliate Brevan Howard set up in June, is registered with
the SEC. The U.S. firm will invest on behalf of Brevan Howard’s
biggest hedge fund, the Master fund, and currently manages about
$800 million, according to an Aug. 1 filing with the SEC.  The $26 billion Master fund, which had fallen 1.3 percent
this year through July 20, hasn’t posted an annual loss since
its inception in April 2003. Howard, 48, founded Brevan Howard
in 2002 with four other fixed-income traders from Credit Suisse
Group AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  