-- Bright Food Tops Banks With $800 Million Loan: Corporate Finance
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   W e n d y   M o c k
-- 2012-08-15T03:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/bright-food-tops-banks-with-800-million-loan-corporate-finance.html
Bright Food Group Co., the Chinese
company buying wine merchants in  France  and cereal makers in
Britain, is cutting interest costs by as much as a third as it
benefits from foreign lenders eager to build better relations.  In what bankers say is the first offshore loan to a Chinese
company that doesn’t carry fees, Bright Food would pay an
interest margin of 230 basis points over the  London  interbank
offered rate for the financing of about $800 million, people
familiar with the matter said this month. Dollar-denominated
loan margins globally have averaged 344.1 basis points this
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Banks outside  China  are participating in loans with terms
once considered unpalatable as they seek to do more business in
the world’s second-largest economy. At a time when lending
volumes elsewhere in  Asia  are falling as a global slowdown makes
companies wary of taking on debt, cross-border acquisitions in
China financed by bank loans are rising, jumping 20 percent to
$100.6 billion last year, Bloomberg data show.  “Foreign banks may have the liquidity but not the
relationships,” Mark Young, the Singapore-based head of
emerging-market bank research at  Fitch Ratings , said. “China’s
an important economy so some of those lenders may be prepared to
sign up for deals on more competitive terms than they normally
would to establish a relationship foothold longer term.”  Relative Rate  For Bright Food, based in  Shanghai  and backed by the city’s
government, the loan rate would be 129 basis points, or 1.29
percentage points, less than its lowest coupon fixed-rate bond
and 342 basis points below the People’s Bank of China’s one- to
three-year best lending rate of 6.15 percent.  London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Rabobank International in
Amsterdam, Credit Agricole SA of Montrouge, France, and at least
two other international banks are considering participating in
the financing, according to the people, who declined to be
identified because the details are private.  The company’s 2 billion  yuan  ($314 million) of 3.99 percent
one-year notes due July 2013 yield 4.026 percent, Chinabond
prices show. Three-month dollar Libor was set at 0.4365 percent
yesterday, according to the British Bankers’ Association.  Wang Lili, a Shanghai-based spokeswoman for  Bright Food ,
declined to comment on details of the company’s financing plans
when contacted via telephone yesterday.  Bank Opportunities  “International banks are keen to build relationships with
Chinese companies,” Joe Cheung, a vice president in  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s emerging-markets financing group for Asia-
Pacific, said. “There are potential financing opportunities
because Chinese enterprises are actively seeking overseas
acquisitions, especially strategic assets.”  Cheung didn’t comment on whether or not the Swiss lender is
considering the Bright Food facility. “There’s also the
possibility of advisory roles and capital market mandates for
banks which have good relationships with these Chinese
companies,” he said.  Bright Food, which has more than 3,300 retail outlets
across China and whose brands include  Big White Rabbit  candy and
Aquarius drinking water, would use the proceeds from the loan to
help finance its purchase of a stake in Weetabix Ltd. The
company, which also operates tea, dairy and rice farms, agreed
to buy the 60 percent stake from private equity firm  Lion
Capital LLP  in May.  Volumes Shrink  The deal values the maker of Ready Brek and Alpen cereals
at about 1.2 billion pounds ($1.9 billion), according to a May 3
statement. Bright Food lost out on a stake in French yogurt
maker Yoplait last year and was outbid by Wilmar International
Ltd. for CSR Ltd.’s sugar unit in 2010.  Foreign bank interest in China is being driven in part by a
drop in loan volumes across the rest of Asia. The lack of deals
makes banks more willing to consider any transactions that
emerge, handing borrowers a stronger bargaining position.  Syndicated loans in the Asia-Pacific region outside of
 Japan  plunged 37 percent to $181.5 billion this year from the
similar period of 2011, Bloomberg data show.  Loan volumes fell as banks’ wholesale cost of funding
increases and companies, conscious of  Europe ’s spiraling debt
crisis and how it might affect global growth, postpone
refinancing.  ‘Tightly Priced’  “There are only a few high-profile deals in the loan
market right now, and most them are tightly priced,” Cheung
said. “So when an unusual structure comes to a market, whether
it’s asset-backed, receivables-backed, acquisition-related or
bridge, investors will give the opportunity serious
consideration.”  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. borrowed $4 billion from a
syndicate of international banks including Zurich-based Credit
Suisse,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in  New York  and Barclays Plc of London in
June. Founder and Chairman Jack Ma said he wants to eventually
sell part of Alibaba Group in an initial public offering. That
deal, which according to Ma may still be a few years off, could
be the largest stock market debut in Chinese internet history.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil and natural-gas
explorer, is seeking about $5 billion in offshore financing from
foreign banks to back its acquisition of Canada’s Nexen Inc.,
two people familiar with the matter said Aug. 1. Banks expect
Cnooc to pay about 150 basis points or less for the bridge
facility, three people familiar with the matter said Aug. 14.  Average Margins  Five non-Chinese banks agreed to a margin of 220 basis
points in June for a loan for a unit of state-controlled Citic
Group Corp., Bloomberg data show.  The average interest margin for U.S. dollar loans signed by
companies in Asia rose to 294.8 basis points more than Libor in
the second quarter, from 259.04 basis points the first three-
months of 2012, the data show.  Bright Food’s  revenue  rose 22 percent in 2011 to 75.8
billion yuan, and net income climbed 16 percent to 1.4 billion
yuan, Bloomberg data show. The company plans to boost sales
outside China to as much as 30 percent of revenue in five years
from 5 percent, Chairman Wang Zongnan said in a July 2011
interview.  The company has shifted its focus to buying international
brands and believes making cross-border acquisitions is “a very
effective way” to enhance Chinese companies’ global
competitiveness, Chairman Wang said in a June 30 interview.  ‘Financing Possibilities’  Bright Food also mandated HSBC, Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Credit Suisse as advisers to help it
get a  credit rating , other people familiar with the matter said
Aug. 8. “We are open to all kinds of different financing
possibilities,” spokeswoman Wang Lili said at the time.
“Seeking a rating and issuing a bond is one of them.”  While some of the banks considering the Weetabix
acquisition loan are prepared not to be paid fees, others,
rather than walk away from the facility, are negotiating with
Bright Food for a 230 basis-point so-called all-in rate
inclusive of a margin, plus a nominal fee, the people familiar
with the matter said.  Bright Food is asking for minimum commitments of $20
million from international banks and a significant portion of
the loan may be funded by Chinese lenders, including China
Development Bank Corp., the people said.  Of the seven lenders involved in a Bright Food’s loan to
acquire a stake in  Australia ’s Manassen Foods last year, only
one was a Chinese bank, people familiar with the matter said at
the time. Fees paid for that facility weren’t disclosed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 Knicholas2@bloomberg.net 
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  