-- Brown Democrats Dismissed as Phonies by Warren Supporters
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/brown-democrats-dismissed-as-phonies-by-warren-supporters.html
Boston ’s former Democratic mayor,
Ray Flynn, urges voters to back Republican Scott Brown for re-
election to the  U.S. Senate  against Elizabeth Warren, a one-time
adviser to President  Barack Obama , in a recent television spot.  Flynn isn’t alone among Democrats to go for Brown, the only
Republican in Congress from  Massachusetts  and whose upset
victory in 2010 was fueled with Tea Party support. The
advertisements featuring well-known local Democrats are aimed at
undecided voters like Margaret Boles Fitzgerald.  “Ads that show people going from one side to the other
have that surprise message, the surprise messenger, that catches
my eye, my ear, my fancy,” said Fitzgerald, 56, who works in
Boston. A registered Republican, she considers herself an
independent voter and doesn’t know which candidate she’ll back.  Brown, running in a state where Democrats outnumber
Republicans three to one, stresses his bipartisan record in a
race where a few thousand votes may decide the winner. Warren
supporters dismiss Democrats backing Brown as having little
clout. The most-recent polls show a dead heat in the contest,
which is among the most closely watched and well-financed in the
nation and may help determine which party controls the Senate.  Truth Squading  When former Worcester Mayor Konstantina Lukes, a Democratic
city councilor, came out for Brown, members of her party stood
outside  City Hall  handing out literature showing that she has
previously backed Republicans. She was voted off the Democratic
city committee after supporting a Republican for governor.
Worcester is the state’s second-largest city by population.  “It’s about an education process for folks to know and for
us to get that out there,” said Candy Mero Carlson, the
committee’s leader. “We have thousands of volunteers across the
state. We’re going to do everything we can to make sure voters
are making an educated decision.”  The 30-second TV spots send a signal to both independents
and uncommitted Democrats that it’s all right to support Brown,
according to Peter Blute, the deputy chairman of the state
 Republican Party  and a former Massachusetts congressman.  “I always tell young Republican candidates: You have to
understand that the liberal-element faction is not a majority in
Massachusetts, but they are the largest discrete minority, and
they’re cohesive, so in order to defeat that you have to string
together almost everyone else,” said Blute, who beat nine-term
incumbent Democrat Joe Early in 1992 to become the first member
of his party to represent central Massachusetts in Congress
since 1947. “That’s how I was able to do it.”  Kennedy Seat  Warren, a Harvard Law professor who helped Obama set up the
federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, is her party’s
hope to recapture the seat long held by  Ted Kennedy , who died in
office in 2009. Brown upset Attorney General  Martha Coakley , a
Democrat, in a January 2010 special election to serve the
remainder of Kennedy’s last six-year term.  The challenger supports Obama’s health-care overhaul,
investing in clean energy technology and opposes subsidies for
oil, gas and coal producers, according to her website. She
opposes the federal Defense of Marriage Act, which bars
recognition of  same-sex marriages , and is against privatizing
Medicare, the health-insurance program for Americans over 65.  Tax Opponent  Brown, whose 2010 victory was propelled by his promise to
help repeal the health overhaul, also opposes providing driver’s
licenses and in-state college tuition to illegal immigrants, as
well as the $700 billion bank bailout in 2008. He has pledged to
fight tax increases because “government has proven to be a
terrible steward of our money,” according to his website.  Both candidates are trying to win over independent voters,
who make up a majority in the state. Warren’s supporters have
been quick to paint many of the prominent Democrats backing
Brown, such as Lukes in Worcester, as party turncoats.  Flynn, a former U.S. ambassador to the Vatican, is also
backing ex-Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney ’s challenge to
Obama, and supported Republican  George W. Bush ’s White House bid
in 2000. Still, the TV ads may persuade some undecided voters.  “It’s brilliant to showcase that people from the other
side are switching allegiances,” said Fitzgerald, who worked in
advertising for 30 years at Boston’s Hill Holliday agency.
“What made them take what might seem like a bold move?
Something influenced them and I’m more likely to listen to them
than the same-old, same-old.”  Creating Narratives  Commercials let campaigns create narratives about a
candidate, said Michael Goldman, who has consulted on campaigns
for Democrats since the 1960s, including U.S. Representative
Thomas P. “Tip” O’Neill, the former House Speaker from
Massachusetts, and 1988 Democratic presidential nominee Michael S. Dukakis, who served three terms as the state’s governor.  “The nuance of Flynn’s lack of support for Democratic
candidates who are pro-choice, for example, is lost in a 30-
second commercial -- and that’s the point,” Goldman said.  The difference between the winner and loser in November may
come down to as few as 35,000 votes out of 3.1 million cast in
the state of 6.5 million, said David Paleologos, who directs
Suffolk University’s Political Research Center in Boston.
According to state records, 52 percent of Massachusetts voters
aren’t members of any party.  “People are going to make their decision based on what
they feel,” Paleologos said. Endorsements generally don’t
decide an election, yet in a close race, they could tip the
balance, he said.  Small Groups  Support from Flynn, who served as Boston’s mayor from 1984
to 1993, may help sway lower-income voters and Catholics who
oppose abortion, Paleologos said. And he may influence people in
the greater Boston area, where most the state’s residents live.  “Brown has been consistently sticking to the theme of his
independence -- that’s part of the Democrats endorsing him and
is helpful for him because the national Republican Party is too
far to the right, particularly on economics and social issues,
to be helpful here,” said Maurice Cunningham, chairman of the
political science department at the University of Massachusetts-
Boston. “It’s such a tight race and the campaigns are so well-
matched that every little edge could have significance.”  Brown will also get some help from a nationally known
independent from out of state,  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
who plans to host a fundraiser today in his East Side townhouse.
Bloomberg, a billionaire who was raised near Boston, threw his
support to Brown after the senator backed a gun-control measure
last month. The mayor is a founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  Big Money  Between the two of them, Brown and Warren had collected
almost $41.5 million in campaign contributions by June 30,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit
research group in  Washington . Warren pulled in the biggest
amount, at $24.5 million to Brown’s almost $17 million.  While Warren has also received praise from Obama and
endorsements -- including from Massachusetts Governor  Deval Patrick , the National Organization for Women, the Human Rights
Campaign and the AFL-CIO’s state chapter -- these are “already
high-intensity Democrat groups,” Suffolk’s Paleologos said. As
a result, they don’t bring many new voters to her side, he said.  Brown has focused on his bipartisan record in Congress
while characterizing Warren as an ideologue who will further
polarize the politics of Washington.  ‘Independent Thinker’  “More and more Massachusetts Democrats are crossing the
aisle to support  Scott Brown  because he is an independent
thinker who works in a bipartisan manner to get things done for
the people he represents,” Alleigh Marre, a spokeswoman, said
by e-mail. “Brown is a bridge-builder, not a rock-thrower, and
the last thing we need in Washington right now are partisan
ideologues like Professor Warren who would rather leave blood
and teeth on the floor than compromise.”  Warren has sought to tie Brown to the national Republican
Party while emphasizing her years spent as a consumer advocate.  “Scott Brown’s voting record -- like protecting tax breaks
for millionaires and giveaways to big oil -- makes clear he
stands with  Wall Street , big corporations, Mitt Romney and  Paul Ryan ,” Alethea Harney, a Warren spokeswoman, said by e-mail.
“ Elizabeth Warren  stands with middle-class families and small
businesses to level the playing field so everyone has a fair
chance to get ahead.”  Menino’s Play  While endorsements may help pry some voters away from their
party or persuade them to support one candidate over the other,
the one local political figure who could make the most
difference is Boston Mayor Tom Menino, according to Tom Whalen,
a Boston University associate professor whose books include “A
Higher Purpose: Profiles in Presidential Courage” and “Kennedy
Versus Lodge: The 1952 Massachusetts Senate Race.”  A Democrat who has held the office for 19 years, Menino has
been conspicuously silent on making an endorsement in the race.
John Guilfoil, a spokesman, declined to comment.  “Right now, Menino is playing coy, no doubt trying to
wrest some assurances from Warren’s camp that she will secure
some serious federal largesse for Boston if elected,” Whalen
said.  Warren has “great respect” for Mayor Menino’s leadership,
said Harney, Warren’s spokeswoman. “She is working across the
commonwealth every day, hard, to earn each vote, including the
mayor’s.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  