-- Carlyle Buys Getty Images From Hellman & Friedman
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-08-15T13:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/carlyle-buys-getty-images-from-hellman-friedman.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s
second-largest private-equity firm, agreed to buy photo archive
Getty Images Inc. from Hellman & Friedman LLC in a deal valued
at $3.3 billion.  Carlyle will acquire a controlling stake in the company,
while Getty co-founder and Chairman Mark Getty and the Getty
family will roll “substantially all” of their ownership
interests into the transaction, Washington-based Carlyle said
today in a statement. Getty Images’ management, including co-
founder and Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Klein, will also
invest “significant equity” in the company, Carlyle said.  The price is less than the $4 billion that San Francisco-
based Hellman & Friedman was seeking, a person familiar with the
matter said yesterday. CVC Capital Partners Ltd., which was also
bidding, declined to top Carlyle’s offer, according to the
person, who asked not to be named because the talks were
private. Hellman bought Seattle-based  Getty Images , the No. 1
distributor of archived photos, for $2.4 billion four years ago
and took out dividends of at least $950 million.  “We will harness Carlyle’s financial resources and global
network to help take Getty Images to the next stage of product
innovation and global growth,” Eliot Merrill, a managing
director in Carlyle’s telecommunications and media group, said
in the statement.  Secondary Sales  Private-equity managers have turned to other buyout firms
to buy and sell companies as the IPO market slowed amid the
European sovereign-debt crisis, weaker growth in  Asia  and
concern about the U.S. fiscal deficit. So-called secondary sales
are the second-most common method of exiting investments, after
sales to strategic buyers, accounting for seven buyout deals
during the second quarter, according to London-based researcher
 Preqin Ltd .  Getty Images, which was founded in 1995 by Getty and Klein,
was the first stock-photo business to license images online,
according to its website. Competitors include Seattle-based
Corbis Corp., owned by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  co-founder  Bill Gates .  Carlyle will make the investment out of its Carlyle
Partners V fund, a $13.7 billion pool that began investing in
2007. The fund had a net internal rate of return of 9 percent as
of June 30, Carlyle said last week. Other investments in the
fund include BankUnited Inc., Booz Allen Hamilton Inc. and HD
Supply Inc.  Carlyle’s Deals  Carlyle, which oversees 99 funds and 63 funds-of-funds, has
been an active buyer. In the past month, the company agreed to
buy a unit from United Technologies Corp. and a majority stake
in TCW Group Inc., the $131 billion asset manager founded by
 Robert Day  in 1971. Carlyle last month also committed $800
million to help finance Genesee & Wyoming Inc.’s purchase of
RailAmerica Inc.  The purchases have helped Carlyle deploy about 80 percent
of the capital from its flagship buyout fund, bolstering its
pitch for fresh capital as it markets a successor pool. The firm
closed on $2 billion of commitments to that pool in the second
quarter, co-CEO  David Rubenstein  said last week. The new fund,
Carlyle Partners VI, is targeting $10 billion.  Carlyle was advised by Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, and Getty
Images was advised by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) , Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett
LLP.  -- Editors:  Larry Edelman , Christian Baumgaertel  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  