-- Carlsberg Profit Misses Estimates on Marketing, Wet Weather
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-08-15T08:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/carlsberg-profit-misses-estimates-on-advertising-wet-weather.html
Carlsberg A/S (CARLA) , the maker of Tuborg
beer, reported second-quarter profit that missed estimates as
unseasonably wet weather stunted sales in  Europe  and the company
increased advertising spending.  Earnings before interest, tax and some one-time items fell
6.1 percent to 3.47 billion kroner ($574 million), the
Copenhagen-based company said. That missed the 3.9 billion-
kroner average  estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The results are disappointing, and Carlsberg is only able
to keep its guidance unchanged because of better-than-expected
foreign exchange,” Eddy Hargreaves, an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity Ltd. in  London  wrote today.  Brewers have suffered as rain across Europe and weakening
consumption drag on beer volume growth. Larger competitor
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  said in July that its western European
sales were hindered by wet weather, and  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  had
“depressed” volume across western Europe even as the effects
of the Euro 2012 soccer tournament boosted sales in central and
eastern European countries.  Carlsberg’s shares rose 0.7 percent to 512.5 kroner at
10:44 a.m. in Copenhagen, having fallen as much as 3.7 percent
in early trading.  2012 Outlook  Carlsberg reiterated its full-year forecasts as a better
ruble exchange rate of about 40.5 rubles to the euro for the
year offsets the effect of bad weather. Carlsberg predicted in
February that full-year operating profit will stay at about the
same level as last year, based on an average exchange rate of
about 43.3 rubles to the euro, and said it anticipates that
adjusted net income will grow “slightly.” The forecast
excludes some one-time items.  “Carlsberg implicitly decreased their organic Ebit
outlook” due to the weather,  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in a note today.  Second-quarter revenue rose 4.5 percent to 19.59 billion
kroner. Excluding currency shifts and acquisitions, sales rose 2
percent as the brewer raised prices.  Carlsberg owns Baltika, Russia’s leading brewer, where the
beer market grew 3 percent in the second quarter. The company
faces the threat of stricter alcohol regulation in Russia,
including a potential ban on plastic bottles. The government has
set a Sept. 17 deadline for a decision on the matter, according
to David Belaunde, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in London.
Carlsberg increased its share of that market to 37.3 percent.  Advertising  Carlsberg’s promotional investments were weighted to the
first half of the year due to marketing restrictions  Russia 
implemented in July, the brewer said. Sales and marketing
investments, as a percentage of revenue, are expected to be
about the same level as last year at its eastern European unit,
it said.  Chief Executive Officer Joergen Buhl Rasmussen said today
that he expects the Russian beer market to be “flattish” this
year, and that it’s too early to comment on the effect of the
Russian marketing restrictions.  The brewer got 39 percent of  profit  from its eastern Europe
unit last year, and 49 percent from northern and western Europe.  Lower Consumption  The beer markets in northern and western Europe slid 3
percent to 4 percent, excluding Poland, in the first half of the
year, more than the company had expected due to wet weather and
“challenging consumer dynamics” in some countries, Carlsberg
said.  Poland ’s beer market grew 6 percent as consumers drank
more beer during the soccer Euro 2012 tournament, held in that
country.  Second-quarter revenue from the region slid 2 percent and
operating profit plunged 12 percent as drinkers in markets like
Denmark and France chose cheaper brands or bought more beer to
drink at home instead of in bars and restaurants, Carlsberg
said. Those figures exclude currency shifts and acquisitions.  Brewers are seeking growth in  emerging markets  to offset
tough environments in Europe. Carlsberg’s revenue and operating
profit both increased in  Asia  in the second quarter, it said,
aided by sales in India,  Cambodia ,  Vietnam  and  Laos . Carlsberg
introduced its Tuborg brand to China in April and added new
bottles in Russia, India and Belarus during the first half.  “The first signs are very encouraging,” the company said.  Net income increased to 3.36 billion kroner from 2.06
billion kroner last year as Carlsberg booked a 1.7 billion-
kroner pretax gain from the sale of most of its Valby site in
 Denmark .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  