-- Carlyle Buys Stake in Chinese Private Medical Company
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-08-15T03:39:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/carlyle-buys-stake-in-chinese-private-medical-company.html
Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s
second-largest private-equity firm, purchased a 13.5 percent
stake in Meinian Onehealth (Group) Co., the biggest private
medical check-up services company in  China .  The investment was made by Carlyle’s yuan-denominated fund,
established with Beijing’s municipal government in 2010, the
company said in a statement today, without giving a price for
the stake. The domestic fund reached 3.2 billion  yuan  ($503
million) in July last year, according to Carlyle.  Private-equity investors are turning to China’s growing
middle class as the volume of deals in  Europe  and the U.S.
shrinks. The check-up service industry in China generates 40
billion yuan of annual revenue, and is growing at 15 percent a
year, driven by increasing awareness of health issues and rising
disposable income among the nation’s middle class, said Janine Feng, a managing director at Carlyle, in a phone interview
today.  “The industry is historically dominated by public
hospitals, but in the last 7 to 8 years you’ve seen the private
sector entering health-care services,” she said. Carlyle’s
other investments in health care companies will help Meinian
expand, it said in the release today.  The U.S. fund has investments in Healthscope Ltd.,
 Australia ’s second-biggest private hospital operator, Integrated
Dental Holdings Plc and Associated Dental Practices, two dental
care providers in the U.K., Carlyle said. The private-equity
firm also owns a stake in China’s Concord Medical Service Co.  Meinian offers medical examinations, disease screening, and
doctor referral services to individual and corporate customers.
The company became China’s largest private provider of
preventive health care check-ups in 2011, with 83 clinics in 41
cities, around 20 of which will be opened by the end of this
year, according to the release.  Including the domestic fund, Carlyle has invested about $4
billion in more than 60 deals in China, according to the
statement. Carlyle was among the first global funds to announce
it had raised a yuan-denominated fund.  Meinian Onehealth is the second investment made by
Carlyle’s Beijing fund, after another investment in a consumer
company last year, Feng said without disclosing the other
company. Carlyle collected 2.4 billion yuan in the first round
of fundraising with Beijing’s government in July 2010, after
setting up a $100 million fund with Fosun Group in Shanghai five
months earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  