-- Cashing Fake Check Funds Applause as Banks Get Reviled
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2012-08-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/cashing-fake-check-funds-applause-as-banks-get-reviled.html
As people turn on the bankers they
blame for the financial crisis, it’s difficult to say whether
Patrick Combs captured the moment or the moment captured him.  Since 2002, the once-struggling San Francisco-based author
has taken his one-man show -- about how he cashed a junk-mail
check for $95,093.35 and the ensuing fight with his bullying
bank -- to audiences from Dallas to Dublin.  With every year that’s gone by, bankers have given Combs’s
“Man 1, Bank 0” more legs and made it more lucrative than the
check.  Combs has now arrived at the annual  Fringe  festival in
Edinburgh, the Scottish city that was also an epicenter of
Britain’s financial crisis, and whose biggest bank,  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , still ranks as the world’s largest
banking bailout.  Next stop, he says, is  London , where fraud prosecutors are
investigating  interest rates  after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined by
regulators for rigging them.  “Their behavior has been immaculate for my show,” said
Combs, 46, who was originally from  Oregon  and now living in  San
Diego . “While I’m packing, Barclays runs off and creates the
perfect environment. I’m like, ‘Thank you Barclays!’”  The 75-minute performance starts with how Combs, saddled
with $45,000 of credit-card debt, decided to play a joke on Los
Angeles-based First Interstate Bancorp by depositing the phony
check he’d received in a mailer about a get-rich-quick scheme.  He endorsed it with a smiley face on the back and placed it
in the automated teller’s deposit box.  To his astonishment, it cleared.  Jail Threat  The rest of the show recounts how Combs waited for the bank
to rectify its mistake, withdrew the sum as a cashier’s check,
put it in a deposit box, and then was tracked down by a bank
official who threatened him with jail.  After months of back-and-forth, Combs returned the money
and kept the knowledge that the bank was in the wrong, all told
at a rat-tat-tat pace with the help of two key props: a
telephone and a projector screen. The show’s title came from a
headline in the St. Jose Mercury News once the story hit the
media, Combs tells the audience.  “It resonates anywhere,” said Robin Lawson, 59, who saw
the show in Edinburgh while on vacation from  Massachusetts .
“People just resent banks.”  That wasn’t always the case, said Combs.  Although he began performing the show in 2002 in schools
before starting it formally in  Dallas  the following January, the
story of the check dates back to 1995.  Motivational Speaker  At that time, Combs was beginning to make a living as a
motivational speaker after publishing a book on the ingredients
for a successful college career. “Man 1, Bank 0” began as a
book, amassing 140 rejections from publishers over the eight
years before it hit the stage.  “In 1995, at best, people were complaining about paying to
use ATMs, or when I bounce a check they charge me,” Combs said
in an interview. “There was a seismic change in the landscape.
Now they talk about how they ruined their country.”  The visit to Edinburgh follows Combs’s tour of Ireland,
home to the largest banking crisis in the euro region.  Royal Bank of  Scotland  had to receive 45.5 billion pounds
($71.4 billion) of rescue money from the British taxpayer to
avoid going under, with the first sum roughly a month after the
collapse of  Lehman Brothers  in September 2008.  Goodwin Protests  By March 2009, protesters were stoning the windows at the
Edinburgh home of  Fred Goodwin , the RBS chief executive officer
who became the lightning rod for public wrath against bankers.  The flyer for “Man 1, Bank 0” talks of “a comedy
adventure that will appeal to anyone who has ever wanted to get
one over on the bankers.”  The show is playing until Aug. 26 at the 150-seat Gilded
Balloon Wine Bar, one of 279 venues ranging from pubs to
ballrooms in the Edinburgh Fringe. Combs says dates for London
are still being finalized.  “Doing the smallest, most inconsequential thing ever
literally took over my career,” he said. “It’s been a rocket
ride. My intuition and what I’m observing tells me that the show
is about to get presented in a much bigger way. The banking
environment says it must.”  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on restaurants,  Jason
Harper  on cars and  James Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 