-- LCH Buys IDCG, U.S. Swaps Clearinghouse, From Nasdaq
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-08-15T18:29:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/lch-buys-idcg-u-s-swaps-clearinghouse-from-nasdaq.html
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. bought
International Derivatives Clearing Group LLC from  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and other investors, seeking to expand in the U.S.  London-based LCH.Clearnet acquired IDCG by issuing shares
at 19 euros each to Nasdaq, LCH said in an e-mailed statement
today. The deal allowed the U.S. exchange operator to take a 3.7
percent stake in the world’s biggest interest-rate swaps
clearinghouse.  “We wanted to make a bigger commitment to the U.S.
marketplace,” Ian Axe, chief executive officer of LCH, said in
an interview today. “We felt a domestic central counterparty
would complement our international model well. We know the
imminent Dodd-Frank regulation is looking to promote increased
clearing activity” through central counterparties.  The two companies signed a non-binding agreement in April.
New York-based IDCG, which opened in January 2009 for interest-
rate swap futures, has struggled to capture market share.
LCH.Clearnet is seeking to expand its U.S. business in
guaranteeing  interest-rate swaps  with its SwapClear
clearinghouse even as the U.S. Dodd-Frank Act mandates more
processing of trades.  Deal’s Value  LCH.Clearnet had 36.1 million shares outstanding as of
April 3, when shareholders backed the clearinghouse’s proposal
to sell a majority stake to LSE,  Europe ’s oldest independent
bourse, for 463 million euros. Based on this data, a 3.7 percent
stake would amount to 25.8 million euros, according to Bloomberg
calculations.  According to Berenberg Bank calculations, at the end of
2011, LCH.Clearnet had about 40.6 million shares outstanding and
a 3.7 percent stake would amount to about 30 million euros. LSE
is also paying 19 euros a share for its planned acquisition of a
majority stake in LCH.Clearnet.  LCH CEO Ian Axe declined to comment on either the number of
shares outstanding or the valuation as did Robert Madden, a
spokesman for  Nasdaq  in  New York .  Nasdaq follows  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) , which it
has failed to buy at least three times, as an LCH.Clearnet
shareholder. Nasdaq last year tried to buy a minority stake in
LCH.Clearnet, with Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld 
seeking talks on how IDCG and LCH could work together.  ‘No Volume’  IDCG has cost Nasdaq about $10 million, or 5 cents in
earnings per share annually,  Niamh Alexander , an analyst at KBW
Inc., said in April. In June, Nasdaq said it plans to start an
interest-rate derivatives trading platform in London, competing
directly with NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse AG.  IDCG struggled to attract business, according to  Chris
Allen , an analyst with  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  in New York who
covers Nasdaq. A potential benefit for LCH.Clearnet may be the
connections IDCG has to U.S. customers, Allen said. He stopped
tracking how many contracts the clearinghouse processed a few
months ago, he said.  “We stopped because there’s been no volume,” Allen said,
adding that, for Nasdaq, it will free $75 million in regulatory
capital the company had to hold against the rates clearing
business. “Once it’s bought by someone else that cash is free
to use as they see fit,” Allen said.  LCH.Clearnet’s SwapClear clearinghouse service began
processing interest-rate contracts traded between banks in 1999
and expanded to offer U.S.-based services in March 2011.  “This is a sensible move to support the budding U.S.
business ahead of Dodd-Frank adoption by the buy side,” said
Richard Perrott, exchange analyst at Berenberg in  London . “I
can see why this is a good deal for SwapClear. I’m not sure why
this is a good deal for LCH.Clearnet.”  Profit Sharing  LCH.Clearnet shares SwapClear’s profits with the major
banks via OTCDerivnet, according to Berenberg. The profit-
sharing arrangement involves the first 5 million pounds of
profit staying with LCH.Clearnet while the next 5 million pounds
is split equally between OTCDerivnet and LCH.Clearnet,
Berenberg’s Perrott said. Any additional profits are split with
85 percent accruing to OTCDerivnet and 15 percent to
LCH.Clearnet, he said.  The U.K.’s antitrust regulator is now scrutinizing the LSE-
LCH deal, which both companies intend to complete by the fourth
quarter. LCH attracted interest from Nasdaq and  NYSE Euronext (NYX) 
before agreeing to the LSE bid.  LCH.Clearnet appointed Axe as CEO in April 2011 to revamp
the company after losing two CEOs in less than six years. LCH
has seen its market share in equities eroded by new entrants
even as regulators mandated more clearing to reduce risk.  Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members, who post
collateral, reducing the threat from a trader’s default.  NYSE Euronext, the owner of the New York Stock Exchange and
LCH.Clearnet’s biggest customer, plans to stop using the venue
to clear European derivatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  