-- China’s Stocks Drop to Two-Week Low on Slowdown
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-15T07:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/china-s-stocks-decline-on-slowdown-concerns-brokers-retreat.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging down
the benchmark index to the lowest in two weeks, on concern the
nation’s economic slowdown is curbing demand for products from
copper to household appliances.  Citic Securities Co. (600030)  and Haitong Securities Co., the
nation’s biggest-listed brokerages, dropped after Capital Week
magazine reported there are discussions to reduce stock
commissions by 20 percent. Jiangxi Copper Co. and Aluminum Corp.
of  China  Ltd. led losses for metal stocks after the world’s
biggest iron-ore producer said China’s “golden years” are gone
as economic growth decelerates. Suning Appliance Co., China’s
biggest electronics retailer, rebounded 10 percent after its
second-biggest shareholder said it will buy shares.  “There’s no stimulus from the government recently and
without strong policies, the economy will have a hard time
rebounding on its own,” said Wang Weijun, a strategist at
Zheshang Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “The market weakness will
persist.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 1.1 percent to 2,118.95
at the close, the lowest level since Aug. 2. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
fell 1.1 percent to 2,331.61. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in  Hong Kong  declined 1.5
percent. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 0.6 percent in
 New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite has tumbled 14 percent from this
year’s high on March 2 amid concern the economic slowdown is
deepening. The index is valued at 9.5 times estimated profit,
compared with the 17.4 average since Bloomberg began compiling
the data in 2006.  Broker Commissions  Citic Securities declined 1 percent to 10.70  yuan  and
Haitong Securities retreated 2.1 percent to 8.62 yuan. China
Merchants Securities Co. lost 1.7 percent to 9.91 yuan.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission, fund managers
and brokerages are discussing plans to cut commissions by 20
percent, Capital Week reported yesterday, citing an unidentified
person at Fullgoal Fund Management Co. Commissions may be
reduced to 0.064 percent from 0.08 percent, according to the
report.  While overseas firms were granted $6.9 billion of quotas to
purchase mainland securities since December, more than in any
full year since the government program began, the number of
Chinese stock accounts containing funds dropped by 788,000 to
56.3 million in the year to Aug. 3, the most for a 12-month
period. A record 110 million are empty or frozen, according to
regulatory data compiled by Bloomberg.  Vale’s China Outlook  Jiangxi Copper, the nation’s biggest copper producer, fell
1.9 percent to 21.33 yuan. Chalco, the listed unit of nation’s
biggest maker of Aluminum, slid 1.6 percent to 6.04 yuan.
Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., the listed unit of China’s second-
biggest steelmaker, lost 1 percent to 4.14 yuan.  “We are not going to see the spectacular growth rates of
10, 12 percent per year,” Roberto Castello Branco, Vale SA’s
director of  investor relations , said at the Bloomberg Brazil
Economic Summit in Rio today. “The golden years are gone.”  Vale, which shipped about 44 percent of its iron ore and
pellets to Chinese steelmakers in the second quarter, expects
the country to start to recover by the end of the year, said
Branco. Vale sees some “early signals” of recovery, which are
still “very weak,” he said.  Suning rebounded by the daily maximum 10 percent to 6.47
yuan. The company said its second biggest shareholder will
increase its stake by as much as 1 billion yuan within three
months. The stock plunged as much as 5.3 percent earlier after
the company said it would cut prices.  Policy Outlook  Suning,  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (493) , China’s
second-largest electronics retailer, and 360buy.com announced
campaigns to lower prices yesterday, according to the official
microblogs of Gome’s online store, Suning.com’s Executive Vice
President Li Bin and 360buy.com Chairman Liu Qiangdong. Gome
declined 6.9 percent to HK$0.67.  Chinese government data showed last week that July exports
grew 1 percent after climbing 11.3 percent in June. Industrial
production and new bank loans also rose less-than-estimated.  The government’s slower-than-forecast cuts in banks’
reserve requirements show authorities are reluctant to shake
their concern inflation will quicken, three months after Premier
 Wen Jiabao  shifted priorities to boosting growth.  “The central bank is still concerned about a rebound in
inflation, and it is reluctant to loosen too much on the
liquidity side,” said Xu Gao, an economist with Everbright
Securities Co. in Beijing.  China has left the reserve ratio for the biggest banks at
20 percent since mid-May while lowering  interest rates  in June
and July, bucking forecasts from HSBC Holdings Plc and Societe
Generale SA that the government would build on three ratio
reductions since Nov. 30.  B Shares  International money managers are lining up to buy stocks in
mainland China at a record pace, even as a third year of equity
losses spurs local investors to empty trading accounts like
never before.  “Buying A-shares now is a good opportunity as valuations
in the Chinese market have dipped so much,” said  Mark Mobius ,
the executive chairman of Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group.  China International Marine Containers (Group) Co.’s B
shares jumped 3.3 percent to HK$9.67 after announcing plans to
move trading to Hong Kong. The world’s biggest container maker
intends to list on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange by converting
1.43 billion B shares to H shares, it said in a statement.  “There’s never been a case of B shares being converted to
H shares, so this is innovative,” Xu Minle, a Shanghai-based
analyst at Bank of China Ltd., said by telephone. “B shares are
lightly traded and less active compared with H shares, so this
is good for their name recognition globally.”  Thirty-day volatility in the Shanghai index was at 14.3
today, compared with this year’s average of 17.5. About 5.3
billion shares changed hands in the gauge today, 34 percent
lower than the daily average this year.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  