-- China Gains as $17.5 Billion Subsidy Curbs ONGC Buyouts
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-08-16T07:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/china-gains-as-17-5-billion-subsidy-curbs-ongc-buyouts.html
Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) ,  India ’s
biggest state-run explorer, is lagging behind Chinese peers in
the race for overseas assets after subsidies to cap fuel prices
drained profit by $17.5 billion over the past decade.  “If it weren’t for the subsidies, all that money would’ve
gone into overseas acquisitions,” Chairman Sudhir Vasudeva said
in an interview. “We’d definitely have been more aggressive.”  ONGC has spent 1.7 trillion rupees ($30 billion) on
discounts since India asked state energy explorers to share the
cost about a decade ago, draining profit by about 971 billion
rupees, Vasudeva said. ONGC pays state refiners that sell fuels
such as diesel and kerosene at below-market rates to temper
inflation in a nation where almost 800 million people, according
to the  World Bank , live on less than $2 a day.  The burden is paring ONGC’s ability to challenge Chinese
rivals, which made 95 overseas oil and gas purchases worth $86.4
billion in the past decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. ONGC, based in New Delhi, has made seven acquisitions
valued at about $8 billion in the same period.  “India is very vulnerable to oil because it imports almost
80 percent of its needs, so companies like ONGC need to buy
overseas assets,” said Taina Erajuuri, a Helsinki-based  money
manager  at FIM Asset Management, which oversees about $1.2
billion in assets. “ China  can pay much more because of its huge
foreign-exchange reserves, and this has made them more
aggressive.”  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  reported the nation’s biggest corporate
loss this month after the government failed to compensate it for
capping fuel prices. The state-run company’s loss widened to
224.5 billion rupees in the three months ended June 30 from 37.2
billion rupees a year earlier.  Videsh Output  ONGC has  gained  1.8 percent in the past 12 months, compared
with a 5.2 percent increase in the benchmark BSE India Sensitive
Index and Brent oil’s 5.6 percent gain in  London .  ONGC Videsh Ltd., the overseas unit that can produce about
10 million metric tons of oil equivalent a year, may have
doubled its output through acquisitions had the subsidy funds
been used for buyouts, Vasudeva said.  State-owned explorers will pay refiners 550 billion rupees
as subsidy for the year ended March 31, two people with
knowledge of the matter said May 21.  While ONGC, which started in 1955 as a division of the
Ministry of Natural Resources, wants to increase international
production sixfold by 2030, it has been beaten by overseas
rivals in the quest for assets from  Latin America  to  Africa  as
developing economies in  emerging markets  seek to secure energy
supplies.  Tullow Stake  ONGC failed to win  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s 25 percent stake in
an Angolan oil block after making a $2 billion offer, two people
with knowledge of the matter said in March last year. Sonangol
EP, Angola’s state-run oil producer, bought the stake, the
company said on Feb. 24.  A joint offer by ONGC, Indian Oil and Oil India Ltd. to buy
a 33 percent stake in London-based Tullow Oil Plc’s Ugandan
exploration interests failed as the consortium was outbid by
 Cnooc Ltd. (883) , the Hong Kong-listed unit of China’s biggest
offshore oil and gas explorer, a person familiar with the matter
said in June 2010.  Earlier this year, ONGC and GAIL India Ltd. said they were
participating in the sale process of  Cove Energy Plc. (COV)  In June,
ONGC Videsh said it wouldn’t make an offer for Cove, for which
Thailand’s  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  bid 1.2 billion
pounds ($1.9 billion).  Syria Sanctions  ONGC is seeking alternatives as oil output from its Sudan
and Syria fields is disrupted, and it faced criticism from
India’s auditor for its most expensive acquisition.  Output by ONGC Videsh, which has 30 projects overseas,
dropped 7.4 percent to 8.75 million tons of oil equivalent in
the year ended March, according to a May 21 company statement.  Syria is producing fewer than 200,000 barrels of oil a day,
almost half its output before an uprising against the regime of
President Bashar al-Assad began in March 2011, Oil Minister Said
Hunaidi said on Aug. 3. The U.S. and European Union have imposed
sanctions on the country following al-Assad’s crackdown on
protesters. More than 21,000 people have died in the unrest,
according to the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights .  “There’s no certainty when production will start again in
Syria. We’re in a difficult position there,” Vasudeva said.  South Sudan  halted production in January after a pipeline
payment dispute with neighboring Sudan. The two nations reached
an agreement on Aug. 4. Restarting production may take six
months or longer, the  International Energy Agency  said on Aug.
10.  ‘Politically Unstable’  ONGC’s biggest acquisition was the 1.4 billion pound
purchase of Russia-focused Imperial Energy Corp. in 2009. ONGC
Videsh lost 11.8 billion rupees in the 15 months ended March
2010 because of lower production from its Russian fields
operated by Imperial, the Comptroller & Auditor General of India
said in March 2011.  The company is close to an agreement to buy its first shale
gas asset in the U.S. and plans to spend at least $1 billion on
purchases, D.K. Sarraf, managing director of ONGC Videsh, said
on March 2.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and ONGC have signed an agreement to
develop shale resources in India and  North America .  ONGC, which had more than 200 billion rupees of cash as of
March 31, may not get a cheap asset in developed nations like
the U.S., FIM Asset’s Erajuuri said.  “They need to look at countries in Africa that may be
politically unstable, but will provide good assets for a better
price,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  