-- China Overnight Money Rate Rises Most Since June on Cash Crunch
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-15T09:11:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/china-overnight-money-rate-rises-most-since-june-on-cash-crunch.html
China’s overnight money-market rate
rose the most in eight weeks on speculation a cash shortage will
worsen as the central bank refrains from lowering  reserve
requirements  for major lenders.  The People’s Bank of China has gauged demand for seven- and
14-day reverse-repurchase operations tomorrow, according to a
trader required to bid at the auctions. The nation’s financial
institutions  sold  3.8 billion yuan ($597 million) more foreign
currency than they bought in July, the first net sales since
April, PBOC data showed yesterday, suggesting capital outflows.  “Reverse repos are still not enough to maintain loose
liquidity,” said Wang Huane, a senior bond trader at Qilu Bank
Co. in Jinan, capital of the eastern Shandong province. “The
liquidity outlook is also not good because of declining capital
inflows.”  The one-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, gained 45 basis points to 3.14 percent as
of 4:30 p.m. in Shanghai, the biggest increase since June 20,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  The PBOC also asked banks to submit orders for an auction
of 91-day  repurchase agreements  tomorrow, according to the
trader.  Bonds Decline  The  finance ministry  sold 30.06 billion  yuan  of five-year
bonds at an average yield of 2.95 percent, according to a trader
at a  finance company  that participates in government debt
auctions. That compared with the 2.89 percent median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey. The highest winning-bid yield at the
sale was 3.02 percent and the auction drew bids for 1.27 times
the amount offered, the trader said.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 2.88 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the 3.14 percent
government bonds due February 2017 advanced six basis points to
2.95 percent, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in  Shanghai  at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  