-- China Soured Loans Rise for Third Quarter as Economy Slows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-15T07:09:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/china-bad-loans-rise-for-third-straight-quarter-as-economy-slows.html
Chinese banks’  bad loans  increased
for a third straight quarter, the longest streak of
deterioration in eight years, highlighting pressures on asset
quality and profit growth as the economy weakens.  Non-performing loans rose by 18.2 billion  yuan  ($2.86
billion) in the three months ended June 30 to 456.4 billion
yuan, the China Banking Regulatory Commission said in a
 statement  on its website today. Bad loans surged at all types of
banking institutions, including the largest state-owned lenders,
rural banks and foreign banks, the regulator said.  Chinese lenders are grappling with rising defaults, weaker
loan demand and lower lending profitability after  economic
growth  decelerated for a sixth quarter and the central bank cut
 interest rates  twice this year. Combined net income growth at
the nation’s 3,800 lenders slowed to 23 percent in the second
quarter from 24 percent in the previous three months, the
regulator said today.  “There’s no doubt that banks’ asset quality is worsening
along with the economy,” said Xie Jiyong, a Shanghai-based
analyst at  Capital Securities Corp. (6005)  “The question is when will
this peak. We haven’t seen signs of stabilizing yet.”  Shares Decline  Chinese banking shares dropped.  Shanghai Pudong Development
Bank Co. (600000)  fell 3 percent to 7.57 yuan at the close of trading in
its home city, the biggest decline in a month, after saying
yesterday its bad loans surged by more than 30 percent in the
first half.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd., the
nation’s largest lender, lost 1.8 percent at 3:06 p.m. in  Hong
Kong .  Non-performing loans, or those overdue for at least three
months, accounted for 0.9 percent of banks’ total advances as of
June 30, unchanged from March, according to the regulator.  Most of the increase in bad loans came from the eastern
Chinese province of Zhejiang, where soured debt rose by 26.8
billion yuan in the first half this year to 75.9 billion yuan by
June, the Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing an
unidentified banker.  New local-currency loans  of 540.1 billion yuan in July
missed analysts’ estimates, declining 41 percent from June.
Industrial-output growth of 9.2 percent was the weakest in three
years. Producer prices declined 2.9 percent, pointing to further
pressure on companies’ profits and ability to repay debt.  Korean Households  Slowing economic growth is eroding  credit quality  among
South Koreans also. Lenders’ ratio of soured  household debt  to
total lending in the category rose to 0.76 percent in June,
almost a six-year high, Korea’s Financial Supervisory Service
said today. New bad loans may rise in the second half if the
economy deteriorates due to  Europe ’s debt crisis or slowing
growth in China, the FSS said in an e-mailed statement.  Kim Seok Dong,  South Korea ’s Financial Services Commission
chairman, told lawmakers last month that while the country’s
household debt is manageable, a slowdown in China is a potential
threat to the economy.  Barclays Plc, Deutsche Bank AG and Bank of America Corp.
this month cut their third-quarter growth forecasts for  China ,
while Morgan Stanley lowered its outlook for the full year to an
8 percent expansion, down from 8.5 percent.  Chinese banks’ net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, narrowed to 2.7 percent in the second quarter
from 2.8 percent in the first, according to today’s statement.
Their capital adequacy ratio rose to 12.9 percent as of June 30,
from 12.7 percent in March.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bloomberg News in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  