-- Chocolate Losing to Cocaine on Colombia Cocoa Slump
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-08-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/chocolate-losing-to-cocaine-on-colombia-cocoa-slump.html
Cocaine is proving a more resilient
commodity than chocolate in  Colombia , the largest supplier of
the narcotic to the U.S.  Prices of  cocoa beans , used to make chocolate, have dropped
40 percent this year in Colombia, South America’s third-largest
supplier, as the cost of leaves processed into cocaine holds
steady, according to data compiled by police and growers.  The chocolate ingredient’s slump in the past year, as
concern about Ivory Coast supply disruptions subsides and
European demand weakens, is threatening a more than decade-long
campaign in Colombia to eradicate drug production that funds
guerrilla movements. It’s also jeopardizing growers’ plans to
become South America’s largest cocoa producer after  Brazil .  “If you make an effort to invest in cocoa and then get
unprofitable prices, and someone else shows up and pays cash for
the other stuff, the farmer migrates to what’s easier,” said
Ciro Alfonso Ramirez, who heads a northern Colombian regional
office of the  National Cocoa Growers Federation .  The number of hectares planted with coca leaves rose 3.2
percent in 2011, faster than the area sowed with cocoa, based on
federation and  United Nations  data. While the government
eradication campaign saw cocaine production slip 1.4 percent to
345 metric tons last year, cocoa output tumbled 9.8 percent.  Rebel Funding  A drive to reduce cocaine production has eroded funding for
the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, the nation’s largest
guerrilla group, improving security and drawing record
international investment to Colombia. Planting cocoa is a key
strategy to provide revenue to farmers who now are dependent on
illegal crops, said retired Gen. Rafael Alfredo Colon, who heads
a state-run illicit crop eradication program.  “We are worried about the instability of prices in
international markets for cocoa,” Colon said. “The government
is creating strategies to attend to those vulnerable
communities.”  Cocoa futures in  New York  have slumped 16 percent in 12
months after reaching a 32-year high of $3,775 a metric ton in
March 2011. Cocoa for December delivery slipped 0.2 percent to
$2,436 on ICE Futures U.S. yesterday, trimming a one-month gain
to 10 percent buoyed by West Africa supply concerns.  Remote Areas  Slower chocolate demand may push prices to as low as $2,200
this year, Sterling Smith, a commodity analyst at  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , said by telephone from  Chicago  on Aug. 14.  Colombian prices for the bean have fallen to about 3,000
pesos ($1.65) per kilogram from about 5,000 pesos in December,
according to Ramirez and federation figures. Coca leaves, the
main ingredient in cocaine, fetch about 2,300 pesos per
kilogram, while farmers can sell a paste made from the leaves
that later is processed into cocaine for at least 1.8 million
pesos per kilogram, according to government figures.  “Cocoa is bulky, you’re trying to sell half a ton at a
time, and it’s hard to get to market when you’re in a remote
area,”  Adam Isacson , an analyst at the Washington Office on
 Latin America , said in a phone interview. “Coca is portable,
and you have plenty of people to pick it up.”  Guerrillas including the Revolutionary Armed Forces, or
FARC, and crime gangs help fund purchases of seeds and
fertilizer and pay cash for coca leaves in remote areas of the
country, where the chance authorities will catch lawbreakers is
low, according to Isacson.  Finding Buyers  The crop can be harvested four times a year, more often
than cocoa, which is the main legal crop being backed by the
government to replace coca leaves since both crops thrive in hot
and humid climates.  More than 62,000 families grow the leaves, compared with
about 16,000 families making a living off the chocolate-making
beans, based on United Nations and federation figures.  To support cocoa farmers, the government is helping them
find buyers, offering loans, and planning to improve
infrastructure like roadways to ease access to markets, said
Colon, from the state-run eradication program. The efforts also
are aimed at discouraging farmers from replanting coca after
government spraying eradicates crops, he said.  The government aims to cut cocaine output by 25 tons to
about 320 tons this year, a two-decade low, according to police
estimates. Less drug revenue and military strikes against rebel
leaders have weakened guerrilla groups and cut terrorist attacks
since 2002, helping draw a record $13.2 billion in international
investment to Colombia last year.  Surpassing Ecuador  Getting more farmers to switch from illegal crops to cocoa
also is part of Colombia’s ambitions to increase production of
the chocolate ingredient and surpass neighboring  Ecuador  as
 South America ’s largest supplier after Brazil, said Jose Omar
Pinzon, executive president of the growers’ federation. Colombia
has the potential to produce 250,000 tons in 2018 compared with
37,000 tons last year, said Pinzon.  “It’s not easy to convince farmers now to plant cocoa
since we are coming out of a price situation that’s difficult,”
Pinzon said. “But if you’ve lived through it, you know this is
cyclical.”  Not for all commodities. According to Colombian police,
concern about global economic growth hasn’t dented international
demand for cocaine and domestic prices for coca leaves have held
steady in the past 12 months -- making it a better bet than cocoa,
coffee, orange juice and cotton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  