-- Cisco Beats Estimates as Price Cuts Lure More Customers
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-08-16T21:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/cisco-beats-estimates-as-price-cuts-lure-more-customers.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest
maker of computer-networking equipment, reported quarterly
profit and sales that topped analysts’ estimates as job cuts
kept costs in check and price reductions attracted customers.  Profit excluding some costs was 47 cents a share in the
period ended July 28, Cisco said in a statement yesterday. That
compares with the average estimate of 46 cents,  according to
data  compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue rose 4.4 percent to $11.7
billion, compared with analysts’ prediction for $11.6 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  John Chambers  has cut 7,800 jobs,
shut businesses and reduced prices to win business lost to
 Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and combat a
slowdown in  Europe , which makes up a fifth of sales. Shares were
buoyed after the company boosted its dividend by 75 percent and
forecast sales and profit that met expectations.  “Their growth is modest, so it’s not clear when they can
start accelerating some of the top-line growth,” said  Erik Suppiger , an analyst with JMP Securities LLC in San Francisco.
“But they’re effectively keeping their profitability intact and
taking some steps to return earnings back to shareholders.”  Cisco rose 9.6 percent to $19.02 at the close in  New York .
The stock is  up 5.2 percent  this year.  Since new business generates 80 percent of quarterly sales,
Cisco is seen as a bellwether for the broader technology
industry. Net income rose 56 percent to $1.92 billion, or 36
cents a share, from $1.23 billion, or 22 cents, a year earlier.  Dividend Boost  The San Jose, California-based company is increasing  its
dividend  to 14 cents a share, starting this quarter, from 8
cents a share. Chief Financial Officer Frank Calderoni said
yesterday Cisco would return at least half of cash generated
from operations via dividends and share buybacks.  “Our financial strength gives us the confidence to commit
and execute against this strategy, in order to provide
meaningful return to our shareholders,” he said in a statement.  Cisco, a beneficiary of the growth in data that needs to be
shuttled between servers, mobile phones,  search engines  and
video websites, forecast sales and profit in line with
estimates.  Including last month’s acquisition of NDS Group Ltd., which
makes software that powers cable set-top boxes and delivers
video, Cisco forecast profit of 45 cents to 47 cents a share in
the current quarter, compared with the average estimate of 46
cents. Sales will rise 4 percent to 6 percent from a year
earlier, which translates to a range of $11.6 billion to $11.9
billion. Analysts predicted $11.7 billion.  Europe Weak  While Cisco’s efforts have helped reverse share losses in
some markets, demand for networking equipment has been weak in
Europe, India and from government agencies, Chambers said on a
conference call with analysts yesterday.  “Europe’s going to get worse before it gets better, and
federal  government spending  is not going to improve in the short
term here in the U.S.,” he said.  Orders from Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa fell 6
percent over last year, the only geographic region to experience
a decline. Switching revenue was flat in the fourth quarter at
$3.61 billion while routing revenue grew 4 percent to $2.1
billion.  The job cuts kept costs in check, contributing to a 3.8
percent drop in operating expenses in the just-ended fiscal
year, while price reductions attracted customers. Orders from
the Americas rose 4 percent and from  Asia  rose 12 percent.  “Cisco is doing all they can to control what they can
control,” said  Joanna Makris , an analyst with Mizuho Securities
USA Inc. The results released yesterday suggest demand for
networking gear “is not that bad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  