-- Citadel’s E*Trade Exit Still Seen Blocked by Mortgages: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-08-15T20:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/citadel-s-e-trade-exit-still-seen-blocked-by-mortgages-real-m-a.html
E*Trade Financial Corp. (ETFC) ’s next chief
executive officer could find the brokerage’s 51 percent discount
to net assets isn’t enough to attract a buyer any time soon, as
mortgages from the housing bubble impede a potential sale.  After the broker rejected putting the company up for sale
in November, E*Trade fired CEO Steven Freiberg last week,
pushing the shares up 8.1 percent amid optimism a deal will be
reconsidered. The New York-based company is looking for a new
leader as its stock trades at 0.49 times the value of E*Trade’s
net assets, trailing rivals  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  and
 Charles Schwab Corp. (SCHW)  that fetch double their book value,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The shares fell 52 percent in the past 18 months, even as
E*Trade shrunk mortgages by 61 percent since 2007 and the
biggest owner,  Ken Griffin ’s Citadel LLC, demanded a strategic
review last year to address “catastrophic losses.” Nomura
Holdings Inc. and Topeka Capital Markets say a takeover of the
$2.48 billion company isn’t probable until loans are reduced
further. While Credit Agricole SA estimates E*Trade would fetch
at least  $12 a share  in a takeover, a 38 percent premium to
yesterday’s price, the firm says a deal isn’t imminent.  “Eventually E*Trade will be sold,” Keith Murray, a New
York-based analyst at Nomura, said in a telephone interview.
Still, the CEO shift “doesn’t alter the timeline of a potential
deal. That will be driven by the wind-down of the loan book and
the comfort level that a potential suitor has with the risks of
E*Trade.”  Talking Baby  “E*Trade is singularly focused on executing our business
strategy of growing our core brokerage business, enhancing our
overall risk profile and continuing to reduce our balance
sheet,” Jaime Stein, a spokeswoman for E*Trade, said in an e-
mailed statement in response to being asked whether the company
is considering a sale.  Katie Spring , a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Citadel, said
Griffin declined to comment.  E*Trade, the online brokerage known for advertisements
featuring a talking baby, has suffered since the subprime-
mortgage crisis from its expansion into home lending. The stock
has tumbled 96 percent since the end of 2006,  worse  than every
financial institution in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index except
American International Group Inc. The mortgage portfolio swelled
to $27.4 billion at the end of 2007, a month after turmoil in
credit markets forced E*Trade to pursue a $2.55 billion  cash 
injection from Citadel.  Fifth CEO  Freiberg was E*Trade’s fifth  chief executive officer  since
2007. When he was named CEO in March 2010, analysts at Collins
Stewart Inc. and Raymond James Financial Inc. said his
appointment would reduce speculation E*Trade was up for sale.
The next year, as the stock headed for a second straight annual
decline, Citadel demanded E*Trade hire a financial adviser to
review its options following “catastrophic losses.”  After E*Trade agreed to hire Morgan Stanley in July 2011,
Citadel complained about the selection process and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. was brought in as a replacement. In November, E*Trade
said its board, which included Citadel’s Griffin, unanimously
agreed not to pursue a sale. E*Trade’s decision followed Schwab
CEO Walt Bettinger’s statement that he wouldn’t buy companies
with “balance sheet challenges.”  Greg Gable , a spokesman for Schwab, declined to comment on
whether the company is interested in E*Trade.  While E*Trade has cut the principal balance for its home-
equity loans and mortgages by 61 percent since the end of 2007,
the company still had $10.7 billion of loans outstanding as of
June 30. In its last annual report, E*Trade said: “there can be
no assurance that our allowance for loan losses will be adequate
if the residential real estate and credit markets deteriorate
beyond our expectations.”  ‘Primary Obstacle’  Mortgages have been “the primary obstacle for a
transaction over the past couple of years, and that certainly is
still an issue,” Michael Tarkan, a New York-based analyst at
Topeka Capital, said in a phone interview. “As the portfolio
continues to shrink, interest from an acquirer will pick up.”  E*Trade said Aug. 9 that Chairman Frank Petrilli will take
over as interim CEO while the company seeks a permanent
replacement for Freiberg. Given that Citadel’s Griffin is one of
the  board members  leading the CEO search, they are likely to
pick someone who is “more amenable” to an acquisition, said
Matt Fischer, a New York-based analyst with  Credit Agricole .
Still, it may be another 12 months before investors get an
offer, he said.  CEO Search  “It does take them one step closer to potentially doing a
deal,” Fischer said in a phone interview. “But they’re in the
process of finding a new CEO, so that doesn’t happen overnight.
It’s going to take some time to find the right person who wants
the job first.”  After plunging 50 percent in 2011, E*Trade  shares  had risen
less than 1 percent this year before Freiberg’s departure was
announced last week. Even after the subsequent 8.1 percent rally
to $8.67 yesterday, the shares were still valued at a 51 percent
discount to the company’s $5.08 billion in book value, or assets
minus liabilities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The stock trades at about  18 times  its earnings for the
last 12 months, while Omaha, Nebraska-based TD Ameritrade and
San Francisco-based Schwab have price-earnings ratios of 15 and
20, respectively, the data show. E*Trade shares fell 1.6 percent
to $8.53 today, posting the biggest decline among financial
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Less Power  Faye Elliott, a McLean, Virginia-based analyst with BGB
Securities Inc., says E*Trade’s negotiating power will be
reduced the longer it waits to sell itself.  “E*Trade needs a buyer more than a buyer needs E*Trade,”
she said in a phone interview. “You’re not going to offer a
premium for a company that is just going to keep spiraling down.
For an acquirer, it’s a great opportunity because they’re
between a rock and a hard place. The next step is the price
either comes back down or they’re taken out in relatively short
order.”  E*Trade fired its CEO at a time when a slowdown in  stock
trading  is hurting profits throughout the industry. Volume for
exchange-listed securities has averaged 6.67 billion a day in
2012, down for a third straight year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Daily average revenue trades, or DARTs, at E*Trade
have declined during the past three quarters versus a year
earlier.  The industry slump means it’s more important for companies
to merge, making E*Trade a more attractive  target , Credit
Agricole’s Fischer said.  Containing Fallout  “Trading volume being down, if anything, would be a reason
to do a scale acquisition,” he said.  The company continues to try to contain the fallout from
its mortgage business. In a plan submitted to the U.S. Federal
Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
E*Trade said it plans to “strengthen our risk profile by
reducing credit costs and the size of the balance sheet,” Chief
Financial Officer Matthew Audette said on a conference call in
July. As a result, the company “ceased any plans to offer new
banking products to customers, including mortgages,” he said.  “E*Trade’s focus right now is more about how we clean up
the  capital structure ,” Nomura’s Murray said. “If E*Trade can
execute on what I call the two albatrosses -- the loan book and
the capital structure -- and figure out a way to clean up the
debt and continue to shrink the loan book, I think you’ll have
more value get unlocked there.”  E*Trade’s $14.1 billion in debt is more than 10 times its
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. TD Ameritrade’s
leverage ratio is 3.1, while Schwab’s is 1.9.  Takeover Valuation  In a takeover, E*Trade could still fetch $12 to $18 a
share, according to Credit Agricole’s Fischer. The likely buyer
is TD Ameritrade because it would be able to cut the most costs
and potentially partner with Toronto-Dominion Bank to manage the
loans that would be inherited in a takeover, he said.  Kim Hillyer , a spokeswoman for TD Ameritrade, said the
company doesn’t comment on market speculation, when asked
whether it is interested in acquiring E*Trade.  “I don’t think a deal is imminent,” Rich Repetto, a New
York-based analyst for Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, said in a
phone interview. “The loan portfolio needs to continue to wind
down and the capital needs to be bolstered. I don’t think
removing the CEO changes how acquirers look at the company. When
you’re dealing with that much money, you need to evaluate it
objectively.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  