-- Citigroup Sees Souring Loans Eroding Turkey Bank Profit
-- B y   S i b e l   A k b a y
-- 2012-08-15T11:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/citigroup-sees-souring-loans-eroding-turkey-bank-profit-2-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  said rising bad debt
at Turkish banks will erode second-half profit, as a slowing
economy prompts more consumers to default on loan payments.  “Provisions against bad debt in the banking sector will be
revised up in the coming period,”  Luis Costa , an  emerging
markets  strategist at Citigroup in  London  said in an Aug. 14
telephone interview. “We expect some sort of detrimental effect
on the bottom line of banks’ balance sheets.”  The number of Turkish consumers who didn’t repay credit-
card loans rose to 343,428 in the first half, 10 percent more
than the figure for all of 2011,  according to the central bank .
Non-performing consumer loans rose by 13.9 percent at the end of
June from end 2011, while total consumer loans in the period
rose 6.3 percent to 179 billion liras ($99.4 billion).  Turkey, which grew faster than every major emerging market
except  China  last year, is forecast to expand 2.3 percent this
year, down from 8.5 percent in 2011, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in April. It had its first quarterly contraction in
three years in the first quarter.  The central bank and regulators may need to act should bad
loans in the nation’s financial system worsen, Suleyman Aslan,
chief executive officer of  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , Turkey’s
biggest listed state-run bank, said earlier this month.  Banks’ total loans rose by 8 percent to 748.2 billion liras
in the first six months of 2012 from end-2011. Banks’ non-
performing loans rose by 6.1 percent to 20.1 billion liras in
the same period, according to banking regulator data.  Bad Loan Growth  “Growth in bad loans has not really kept up with the
growth in total loans,” Ilker Yoney, investments director of
 LBT Varlik Yonetim , which buys bad loans from banks, said in a
telephone interview on August 10. “But we expect the slowdown
in economic growth to soon start changing this balance.”  Banks’ loan loss provisions, or expenses set aside to cover
bad loans, which might reflect a deterioration in banks’ credit
quality, increased 57 percent to 3 billion liras in the first
half of 2012 from a year ago, according to regulator data.  Banks have to wait 90 days before they can officially
declare a loan as  “non-performing,‘‘ according to the banking
regulator’s rules, Sadrettin Bagci, analyst at Istanbul-based
brokerage Yatirim Finansman, said in a telephone interview.  ‘‘Bad loans forming in the first half will be reflected on
balance sheets starting from the third quarter,’’ he said.  Lower Interest Loans  Borrowers may be paying off credit card debt with lower-
interest consumer loans and then defaulting on those, according
to Bagci and Hakan Aygun, of Ak Investment, a brokerage. The
highest monthly charge Turkish banks can apply to credit cards
is 28.08 percent annually, while the weighted average annual
 interest rate  on cash loans is 17.7 percent, on housing loans
12.3 percent and 14.5 percent on commercial loans, according to
central bank data.  Bad loans to small-and medium-sized enterprises have not
yet increased, ‘‘but it will pull down our profitability when
they do,’’ Ergun Ozen, chief executive officer of  Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s biggest bank by market value, said
in April.  Such loans make up 37 percent of Garanti’s total loans
while loans to small businesses compose 22 percent of the total
at  Turkiye Is Bankasi (ISATR)  AS, Turkey’s biggest bank by assets. Loans
to so-called SMEs compose 27 percent of total loans of  Akbank
TAS (AKBNK) , owned by Citigroup Inc. and Haci Omer Sabanci Holding,
according to the banks’ earning statements.  Not a Problem  Rising bad loans are not a problem for Isbank, chief
executive officer Adnan Bali said.  ‘‘Turkish banks’ bad debt may rise slightly in the third
quarter,‘‘ he said at a news conference in Istanbul on August 9.
‘‘But I don’t think it will pose any substantial problems for
us.‘‘  Turkey ’s  main banking index  was little changed at 2:34 p.m.
in Istanbul today, having dropped as much as one percent in
earlier trading.  Unpaid loans rose to 25 percent of total lending in 2002
after a banking crisis in 2001 that prompted Turkey to
recapitalize its banks and introduce tighter regulation.  ‘‘Banks’ CEOs’ recent remarks are a warning as to what may
happen if bad loans increase,’’ Bagci said. ‘‘The first half
really gives no alarm, but they’re trying to tell the
authorities to take precautions before things go bad.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sibel Akbay in Istanbul at 
 sakbay@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  