-- Colombian Peso Falls as Government Buys Dollars to Ease Rally
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-08-15T22:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/colombian-peso-falls-as-government-buys-dollars-to-ease-rally.html
Colombia ’s peso dropped to its
lowest level in two months after Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said the Treasury will buy $300 million this week to
curb the currency’s rally.  The peso slid 0.8 percent to 1,817.80 per  U.S. dollar  after
earlier touching 1,821.76, the weakest level since June 4. It
has rallied 6.6 percent this year, the best performance in the
world after the Chilean peso and the Hungarian forint among
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Echeverry’s announcement after the close of trading
yesterday follows earlier comments in which he urged an increase
in minimum daily dollar purchases from $20 million, saying a
strengthening peso threatens to undermine local industry and
farmers. Central bank co-director Cesar Vallejo said in an
interview earlier this week that policy makers are considering
doubling daily purchases to $40 million.  “After so much intervention talk, the government is
finally moving from rhetoric to action,” said Juan Nicolas Garcia, a currency trader at HSBC Colombia.  Speaking to reporters today, Echeverry said the Treasury
will continue to buy dollars as long as it has “ammunition.”  Citigroup Inc. recommended in a research note that clients
take bets that the peso will fall against the dollar. The peso
may weaken to as low as 1,850 per dollar, Citigroup said.  Standard & Poor’s  said in a statement today that it may
raise Colombia’s foreign debt rating as economic growth in the
Andean country increases revenue and leads to lower debt levels.
S&P rates Colombia BBB-, the lowest level of investment grade.
The outlook was moved to positive from stable, it said.  The announcement came after the close of Colombia’s bond
and currency market.  Peso bonds in the long end of the curve may gain tomorrow
following S&P’s announcement, Alianza Valores brokerage wrote in
a note to clients.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 closed little changed at 6.64 percent. It fell
to 6.60 percent on Aug. 2, the lowest on a closing basis since
the securities were first issued in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  