-- Connecticut Offers Millions to Aid Bridgewater Expansion
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/connecticut-aids-bridgewater-hedge-fund-to-build-new-hq.html
Bridgewater Associates, the world’s
biggest hedge fund, intends to build a $750 million headquarters
financed partly with state aid in  Stamford , Connecticut,
according to Governor Dannel Malloy.  The company, which paid founder Raymond Dalio $3.9 billion
in 2011, occupies five buildings in nearby Westport. The new
headquarters is planned for Stamford’s Harbor Point waterfront
district, Malloy, 57, said yesterday in a  statement . Bridgewater
also committed to adding hundreds of jobs.  Connecticut agreed to give Bridgewater a $25 million
“forgivable” 10-year loan at 1 percent interest to help
finance two buildings totaling 750,000 square feet (69,700
square meters). It will also provide as much as $5 million for
job training, $5 million for alternative-energy systems and $80
million in tax credits, according to the statement.  “This is stealing from the poor and middle class to make a
billionaire even richer,” Jonathan Pelto, a former deputy
majority leader in  Connecticut ’s House of Representatives, said
by e-mail. “This isn’t economic development.”  Pelto, a Democrat who works as a political consultant and
commentator, said it was “shocking beyond words” that Malloy,
a Democrat elected in 2010, was giving handouts to a company as
wealthy as Bridgewater. “If a Republican governor did this, we
Democrats would be calling for impeachment.”  SAC Capital  Stamford, where Malloy, a Democrat, was mayor before he
became governor, is home to hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors LP,
run by billionaire  Steven A. Cohen . The city is about 13 miles
(21 kilometers) from Westport, where Bridgewater oversees about
$130 billion in assets.  The Bridgewater project is expected to be completed in
2017, subject to regulatory approvals, according to Malloy’s
office. State financial support will come from the Economic and
Community Development Department.  James Watson , a spokesman,
said part or all of the $25 million loan to help pay for
construction won’t have to be repaid “if certain job-retention
and creation requirements are met.”  Bridgewater agreed to create as many as 1,000 “high-
level” jobs within 10 years, while retaining its current
workforce, according to Malloy’s office. The company employs
1,225 people in Westport.  ‘Economic Win’  “To have a company of Bridgewater’s stature make the
business decision to invest $750 million in our state and
significantly increase its workforce is not only an
extraordinary economic win, but signals to the rest of the world
that Connecticut is strengthening its leadership position in the
very competitive financial services sector,” Malloy said in the
statement.  Company managers and Malloy share a “vision of creating a
state-of-the-art and environmentally sustainable” headquarters
that will restore the city’s waterfront from past industrial
uses, Greg Jensen, co-chief executive officer, said in the
statement from Malloy’s office.  “A lot of work needs to be done to see if a move to the
Stamford campus can become a reality,” Lindsay Fetzner, a
Bridgewater spokeswoman at Prosek Partners, said by e-mail. “We
will continue to work with our team of skilled partners to
evaluate and plan the campus and will make our decisions known
as we make them.”  The new buildings will “facilitate creativity,
collaboration and help reinforce Bridgewater’s distinct
culture,” Jensen said. The hedge-fund firm is known for a
workplace governed by a voluminous set of management  principles 
created by Dalio, 63, and posted on the company website.  Best-Paid  Dalio, who grew up in Manhasset Hills on  New York ’s  Long
Island , started Bridgewater in 1975 in his New York apartment
and built it into the world’s largest hedge-fund firm, with
about $77.6 billion in assets as of January, according to
Bloomberg News research. A 1973 Harvard Business School
graduate, Dalio was the best-paid U.S. hedge-fund manager last
year, according to AR Magazine, an industry publication.  Malloy, who served 14 years as Stamford’s mayor, said
Bridgewater is one of eight companies, including Deloitte LLP
and NBC Sports Group, that are participating in his development
initiative. The Legislature passed a measure authorizing the
program last year.  The governor has previously taken steps to keep financial-
services jobs in the state. In August 2011, he announced a five-
year agreement with UBS AG to keep at least 2,000 of the
company’s 3,500 workers in Stamford. In exchange,  Switzerland ’s
biggest lender got a $20 million forgivable loan.  Wealthiest State  Connecticut, which is the wealthiest U.S. state, is a
hedge-fund mecca. Many are based in Fairfield County, which
surrounds Stamford and such wealthy enclaves as Greenwich and
Darien and abuts New York’s suburban Westchester County.  Malloy’s predecessor, Republican Jodi Rell, started a
campaign in 2010 to lure  hedge funds  from New York after that
state approved a measure to increase taxes on their highly paid
managers. The step was later retracted.  While the Stamford area is wealthy, Fairfield County is
also home to Bridgeport, where the metropolitan area encompasses
the largest gap between rich and poor in the country. If the
region were a country, it’d be the world’s 12th-most unequal in
terms of income, ranking just below  Guatemala .  “This is an insult to anyone in Stamford who may not be
one of the 1,000 to get a well-paid job at this hedge fund,”
said Dana Baliki, a local organizer for the  Occupy Wall Street 
movement.  “It’s hard for me to believe that a billionaire needs a
tax break for his firm,” Baliki said. “These are the skewed
priorities taking this country down. The money could have been
directed towards education, housing and community needs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 