-- July Consumer Prices Unchanged as U.S. Pricing Power Wanes
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-08-15T12:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/consumer-prices-unchanged-in-sign-of-lack-of-u-s-pricing-power.html
The cost of living in the U.S. was
little changed in July for a second month, showing companies
lack pricing power.  The unexpected reading in the consumer-price index capped a
1.4 percent gain over the past 12 months, the smallest year-to-
year increase since November 2010, the Labor Department reported
today in  Washington . The median forecast of 85 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an increase of 0.2
percent. The  core  index, which excludes volatile food and fuel
costs, rose less than forecast.  Companies may find it difficult to charge more while
joblessness hovers above 8 percent. Tempered inflation makes it
possible for Federal Reserve policy makers to take additional
steps if needed to revive the economic expansion when they meet
next month.  “The fact that the economy was so weak in the first half
of the year means there’s probably less pricing power,” said
 Omair Sharif , U.S. economist at RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “It’s going to be tough to push prices through to
the consumer who’s already very weak and shown an appetite for
discount shopping,” said Sharif, who correctly forecast the
increase in core prices.  “If you’re the Fed, inflation is the least of  your
concerns right now,” he said.  Manufacturing in the New York area unexpectedly contracted
in August for the first time since October, indicating factories
are cutting back amid the global economic slowdown, another
report today showed.  Manufacturing Contracts  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index fell to minus 5.9 from 7.4 in July. The median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey of economists was 7.0. Readings less than
zero signal contraction in the so-called Empire State Index,
which covers  New York , northern  New Jersey  and southern
Connecticut.  Treasuries securities trimmed earlier losses after the
reports, putting the yield on the benchmark 10-year note at 1.76
percent compared with 1.74 percent late yesterday. The contract
on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in September fell
0.2 percent to 1,398.8 at 8:50 a.m. in New York.  Declining prices for a broad-range of goods and services,
including hotel rates, airline fares and new and used cars
helped offset rising costs for medical care and rents, the
report showed.  Economists’ estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
unchanged to a gain of 0.4 percent. Economists forecast a 0.2
percent gain in the core index, according to the survey median.  Core Prices  The core CPI climbed 0.1 percent in July and was up 2.1
percent over the past 12 months, the smallest year-to-year
increase since October 2011.  Energy costs decreased 0.3 percent from a month earlier,
while food prices rose 0.1 percent.  A worst-in-a-generation drought from  Indiana  to  Arkansas  to
 California  is damaging crops and rural economies and could lead
to higher consumer costs at the supermarket in the coming
months.  Paychecks are failing to keep up with even limited
inflation. Hourly earnings adjusted for inflation were little
changed in July after a 0.3 percent increase the prior month,
and were up 0.2 percent over the past 12 months.  Pricing Strategy  Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS)  is among companies having mixed
success in boosting prices, getting customers to pay more for
some items and having to pull back on others.  “Some of them worked out fine and the customer accepted
them and some other ones didn’t,” Edward Stack, chairman and
chief executive officer of the Coraopolis, Pennsylvania-based
retailer, said on an Aug. 14 earnings call.  Sustained gains in demand are needed to give merchants more
pricing power. Retail sales  rose  in July for the first time in
four months, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.  Merchants including  Gap Inc. (GPS) , Home Depot Inc. and TJX Cos.
are reporting improved sales as households strengthen their
balance sheets and look beyond the global economic slowdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  