-- Consumer Prices in U.S. Probably Rose for First Time Since March
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/consumer-prices-in-u-s-probably-rose-for-first-time-since-march.html
The cost of living in the U.S.
probably rose in July for the first time in four months, showing
inflation is in check, economists said before a report today.  The projected 0.2 percent gain in the consumer-price index
follows no change in June, according to the median estimate of
84 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Other data may show
industrial production rose and homebuilder confidence
stabilized.  The increase last month probably capped the smallest year-
to-year gain in consumer prices since January 2011, indicating
companies are finding it difficult to charge more with
joblessness hovering above 8 percent. A lack of inflation will
make it possible for  Federal Reserve  policy makers to take
additional steps if needed to revive the economic expansion.  “It’s not a picture that says we have a broad-based
inflation problem,” said  Nigel Gault , chief U.S. economist at
IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  The Labor Department will issue the consumer-price index at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from
unchanged to a 0.4 percent gain.  At 9:15 a.m. in Washington, a Federal Reserve report is
projected to show output at factories, mines and utilities
increased 0.5 percent in July after increasing 0.4 percent a
month earlier, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey.  A report from the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  at 8:30
a.m. may show  factories  in its region expanded in August at
about the same pace as in the prior month.  Year Ago  Today’s Labor Department price report is projected to show
the cost-of-living index climbed 1.6 percent from July 2011
after a 1.7 percent year-over-year gain in June, the survey
median showed.  Core prices, which exclude volatile food and energy costs,
rose 0.2 percent for a fifth month, according to the survey
median. From a year earlier, the gauge probably climbed 2.2
percent, the same as in June.  Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS)  is among companies having mixed
success in boosting prices, getting customers to pay more for
some items and having to pull back on others.  “Some of them worked out fine and the customer accepted
them and some other ones didn’t,” Edward Stack, chairman and
chief executive officer of the Coraopolis, Pennsylvania-based
retailer, said on an Aug. 14 earnings call.  Retail Sales  Sustained gains in demand are needed to give merchants more
pricing power. Retail sales  rose  in July for the first time in
four months, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.  Merchants including  Gap Inc. (GPS) , Home Depot Inc. and TJX Cos.
are reporting improved sales as households strengthen their
balance sheets and look beyond the global economic slowdown.  The  consumer price index  includes goods and services,
making it the broadest of three inflation gauges from the Labor
Department. About 60 percent of the index measures prices paid
for services, including doctor visits, airfares, movie tickets
and rent.  Prices paid by producers rose 0.3 percent in July, the
Labor Department reported yesterday. Wholesale costs increased
0.5 percent over the prior year, the smallest gain since October
2009.  Federal Reserve  The Fed remains cautious about the recovery’s resilience.
Central bankers have said they’re prepared to stimulate the
economy if necessary to boost growth and reduce a jobless rate
that’s exceeded 8 percent for more than three years. Subdued
inflation gives Fed policy makers more leeway to take action.  Investors agree a flare-up in prices is of little concern.
The  difference in yields  between 5-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, which represents
traders’ expectations for the rate of inflation over the life of
the securities, was 1.91 percentage point as of at 4 p.m. in  New
York  yesterday. The Fed’s goal is to keep inflation at around 2
percent.  Also today, the National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo confidence  index , due at 10 a.m., probably held at 35 in
August, matching the prior month’s figure that was the highest
in five years, according to the median in a Bloomberg survey of
economists.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  