-- Copper Seen Falling as China May Struggle to Sustain Growth Pace
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-08-15T11:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/copper-seen-falling-as-china-may-struggle-to-sustain-growth-pace.html
Copper was seen falling in  New York 
on concern  China , the world’s biggest consumer of the metal,
will struggle to sustain its growth pace and U.S. economic
reports may weaken the case to expand stimulus.  China’s “golden years” are gone as the world’s second-
largest economy slows, leading global iron-ore producer Vale SA
said yesterday. Growth in the Asian country reached a three-year
low in the second quarter and banks’ bad loans increased for a
third straight quarter.  “Base metals should remain hamstrung by near-term China
demand worries,”  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
analysts led by  Mark Pervan  wrote in a report today.  Copper for December delivery fell 0.5 percent to $3.355 a
pound by 6:49 a.m. on the Comex in New York. Copper for three-
month delivery slipped 0.4 percent to $7,390 a metric ton on the
London Metal Exchange.  “Economic data seems to be weighing on the outlook,”
 William Adams , an analyst at Basemetals.com in London, wrote in
a report. “We are in the middle of the summer lull and the
economic outlook remains uncertain.”  Figures due today may show industrial production rose in
July in the U.S., the second-largest copper user, and
homebuilders’ confidence stabilized this month. The Copper
Development Association says construction generates about 40
percent of demand for the metal.  Copper prices this year and in 2013 will be lower than
previously projected, according to a government body in  Chile ,
the world’s largest producer of the metal. State copper
commission Cochilco lowered its forecast for the metal’s average
price this year to $3.52 a pound from $3.85 and trimmed next
year’s estimate to $3.48 from $3.75.  Copper  stockpiles  monitored by the LME declined for a fifth
day to 236,375 tons, remaining at the lowest level since June
11, daily exchange figures showed. Orders to remove the metal
from warehouses monitored by the  London  bourse fell for a 16th
session in 17 to 33,500 tons.  Zinc, aluminum, nickel, lead and tin declined in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  