-- Witten to Miss Preseason Cowboys Games With Lacerated Spleen
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/cowboys-jason-witten-may-miss-preseason-with-abdominal-injury.html
Jason Witten will miss at least two
 Dallas Cowboys  preseason games because of a lacerated spleen,
coach  Jason Garrett  said.  Garrett ruled pro Bowl tight end Witten out of games
against San Diego on Aug. 18 and  St. Louis  on Aug. 25 He will be
kept out of practice for seven to 10 days, Garrett said.  Witten’s status for the final preseason game against Miami
on Aug. 29 and the  Sept. 5 season opener  against the  New York
Giants  in East Rutherford,  New Jersey , is still to be determined.  “It’s a very serious injury and we’re really taking this
day by day,” Garrett said on the team’s website. “He has to be
very still and idle. We have to make sure he heals as well as
possible and as quickly as possible. He has to let time heal
it.”  Witten was injured in the first quarter of Dallas’ 3-0 win
over the  Oakland Raiders  on Aug. 13 when he caught a pass from
quarterback  Tony Romo  and was hit by linebacker Rolando McClain.
Witten left the game immediately, then returned for the next
offensive series.  Witten, 30, has been selected to seven Pro Bowls and has
caught 696 passes for 7,909 yards and 41 touchdowns during his
10-year career.  He has played in 143 games, missing one game during his
rookie season in 2003 with a broken jaw. Witten has played games
following broken ribs, sprained ankles and concussions,
according to the Cowboys.  The latest injury leaves the Cowboys thin at tight end.
John Phillips missed last week with an ankle injury, with only
rookies James Hanna and Andrew Szczerba available for practice
yesterday, the team said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  