-- CSN Posts First Loss in 10 Years After Usiminas Writedown
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-08-15T20:50:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/csn-posts-first-loss-in-10-years-after-usiminas-writedown.html
Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA (CSNA3) ,
 Brazil ’s third-largest steelmaker, fell to the lowest in almost
two weeks after unexpectedly posting its first quarterly loss in
10 years on the declining value of its stake in rival  Usinas
Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA. (USIM5)   CSN, as the Sao Paulo-based company is known, slid 1
percent to close at 10.35 reais in  Sao Paulo  today, the lowest
since Aug. 2. The stock has  dropped  31 percent since the
beginning of the year, compared with a 2.5 percent gain in
Brazil’s Bovespa Index.  CSN posted yesterday a second-quarter net loss of 1.03
billion reais ($509.3 million), compared with net income of 1.14
billion reais a year earlier. It was expected to post profit
excluding some items of 50.1 million reais, according to the
average of eight analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  CSN had been buying shares in Usiminas since at least
January 2011 to seek to alter the competitor’s management or
control structure. The efforts were thwarted last year when the
Techint Group agreed to pay 5.03 billion reais for a 27.7
percent voting stake in Usiminas, joining  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  in
the company’s controlling group.  CSN booked a 1.6 billion-real net tax loss for its equity
investment in Usiminas after the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based
company’s share price slumped, the company said yesterday. CSN
held 20.14 percent of Usiminas preferred stock and 11.97 percent
of its common shares as of Dec. 31, CSN said.  ‘Disturbing Strategy’  “The booking of a significant loss highlights what we
consider to be CSN’s disturbing strategy of utilizing its
cash,”  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  analysts Felipe Reis and Alex Sciacio
in Sao Paulo said in a note to clients today. “We continue to
recommend that investors avoid the stock due to our projection
of poor operating performance in the coming quarters.”  Usiminas’s preferred shares  fell  to the lowest in more than
eight years last month amid higher production costs. The
company’s voting shares slid 67 percent in the past 12 months
through yesterday, the worst performer in Brazil’s benchmark
Bovespa  Index. (IBOV)   CSN continues analyzing “all alternatives” for its
Usiminas stake, Investor Relations Executive Officer David
Salama said today, echoing similar comments since last year. The
company will continue making accounting adjustments according to
the value of the stake at the end of each quarter, he said
during an earnings conference call.  The second-quarter loss was CSN’s first since the third
quarter of 2002, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Gerdau
SA (GGBR4)  and Usiminas, the two largest Brazilian steelmakers, beat
second-quarter analysts’ estimates amid rising sales.  Declining Sales  CSN’s net revenue fell 4.2 percent in the quarter to 4.14
billion reais, less than the 4.3 percent increase in the cost of
goods sold. Iron-ore sales volumes declined 9.5 percent to 6.1
million metric tons, while steel sales increased 8.5 percent to
1.41 million tons, CSN said.  Net debt as of June 30 rose to 15.6 billion reais from 14.3
billion reais at the end of the previous quarter.  CSN is facing lower prices and volumes in its iron-ore
division, increasing competition in the domestic steel market
and boosting project development costs, Credit Suisse Group AG
analysts including Ivano Westin said in a Aug. 9 note after
cutting the stock to the equivalent of sell from the equivalent
of hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  