-- Cuomo Says Dairy Industry Can Make New York U.S. Yogurt Capital
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-08-15T19:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/cuomo-says-dairy-industry-can-make-new-york-u-s-yogurt-capital.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said he wants
 New York  to become the yogurt capital of the U.S., just as
California’s Silicon Valley has grown to dominate the global
high-tech industry.  New York is home to 29 yogurt plants, up from 14 in 2000,
Cuomo said today in  Albany  at the state’s first Yogurt Summit.
The 54-year-old Democrat organized the event to bring together
dairy farmers and industry leaders, including New Berlin, New
York-based  Chobani Inc. , which produces Greek-style yogurt.  Cuomo said he wants to develop a so-called “cluster
economy” around yogurt production to bring jobs to upstate New
York, where the  poverty rate  rose to 13 percent in 2008 from 11
percent in 2000, according to a 2011 report by  Cornell
University .  “There’s a business advantage to being together, like
Silicon Valley,” Cuomo said. “These cluster economies don’t
just happen. It doesn’t come down from space. Maybe they begin
randomly, but then they are planned, developed and
facilitated.”  New York’s $8.9 billion  dairy industry  employed 8,070
people and paid $414 million in wages last year, a 14 percent
increase from 2005. At the summit, Cuomo announced a regulation
change that will allow farms to have as many as 300 cows, rather
than 200, before having to meet manure-discharge regulations
that can cost farmers thousands of dollars.  Yogurt is a tart-tasting dairy product made from fermented
milk, usually from cows but sometimes goats or yaks. Greek
yogurt requires three times more milk than traditional yogurt,
according to Cuomo’s office.  Pepsi Plant  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and the Theo Muller Group of  Germany  said Aug.
2 they will open a 350,000-square-foot yogurt-production plant
in Batavia to be run by their joint venture, Muller Quaker Dairy
LLC. They picked the western New York city because it’s
“situated in one of the nation’s most concentrated milk-
producing and processing regions,” according to a statement e-
mailed by PepsiCo, which is based downstate in Purchase.  The companies are investing $206 million in the plant. New
York is providing about $13 million in tax breaks as well as a
$1 million grant. Genesee County is giving $12 million in tax
breaks.  At the summit, the possibility of New York finding other
ways to work with the dairy and yogurt industries to remove
barriers fueled talk of New York becoming the world capital of
yogurt production.  “We must work together, government and business,” said
Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat. “If we
make it our mission, there is no reason why we can’t make New
York the yogurt capital of the  United States , if not the
world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  