-- Danske Bank Pension Arm Says Italian Bonds Aid Yield Search
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-08-15T13:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/danske-bank-pension-arm-snaps-up-italian-bonds-in-yield-search.html
Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ’s pension unit,
Danica, has been purchasing Italian debt in an effort to
generate returns as short-term Danish benchmark yields go
negative.  Danica, which had investment assets of about $50 billion at
the end of June, holds about 7.2 billion kroner ($1.2 billion)
in mostly Italian short-term notes and some Spanish debt,
according to Peter Lindegaard, the chief investment officer at
the pension unit of Denmark’s biggest bank in Copenhagen.  “In the long term, there might be issues regarding the
euro, but in the short term, there is political will to save the
situation,” Lindegaard said in an interview. “We think it’s a
good risk reward.”  Italian 10-year yields surpassed 6.5 percent last month as
confidence in the euro area’s ability to stop the debt crisis
from spreading to the bloc’s third-largest economy waned. Yields
have since eased as Prime Minister  Mario Monti  pledged spending
cuts to tame the government’s deficit and persuade investors
Italy won’t need a bailout.  Italy’s benchmark 5.5 percent bond due September 2022
yielded 5.78 percent at 2:22 p.m. in  London  today. Denmark’s 10-
year benchmark note yielded 1.25 percent, or about 25 basis
points less than similar-maturity German bunds.  Italian Yields  The yield on Italy’s two-year note eased nine basis points
to 3.333 percent, compared with minus 0.209 percent on similar-
maturity Danish debt.  “It’s difficult to get a yield today on anything that is
totally safe, so when you use your risk budget, you need to
contemplate how to do that the best way,” Lindegaard said.
“This is one of the more risky things, but you are being paid
for it.”  At PFA A/S,  Denmark ’s biggest commercial pension fund,
domestic yields around zero have also prompted the investor to
turn to the euro area.  “We’ve been in the peripherals where we see more stable
markets,” Poul Kobberup, head of fixed income at PFA, said in
an interview. “It’s very attractive to go abroad, from a
domestic point of view.”  Pension funds in AAA rated Denmark are stepping up their
purchases of foreign bonds in an effort to boost returns. The
shift may help offset a capital influx into Denmark that’s sent
two-year yields below zero and forced the central bank to cut
its deposit rate to minus 0.2 percent last month to defend the
krone’s peg to the euro.  Discount Rule  Danish pension and insurance funds increased their holdings
of bonds from outside the Nordic country by 62 percent to 15.9
billion kroner in June, central bank data show. That compares
with sales of foreign bonds of 26.7 billion kroner a year
earlier.  Demand for higher-yielding securities follows a June
decision by Business Minister Ole Sohn to ease pension industry
discounting rules, enabling funds to purchase riskier assets
over domestic bonds.  “Some might say: ‘We don’t want anything with  Italy  in
it,’ but we haven’t taken that decision,” Lindegaard said.
“The risk-reward is okay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  