-- De Beers Studies U.S. After 60-Year Ban in No. 1 Market
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-08-15T17:01:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/de-beers-studies-u-s-after-60-year-ban-in-no-1-diamond-market.html
De Beers , being taken over by  Anglo
American (AAL)  Plc, is studying U.S. diamond retailing and polishing
after settling lawsuits that had prevented it operating directly
in the biggest market for the gems for more than 60 years.  “We couldn’t do business in the U.S. since 1948,” Chief
Executive Officer Philippe Mellier, 56, said in an interview.
“That’s clearly one of the avenues we’d like to pursue, to grow
the business as De Beers in a much bigger way in the U.S.”  A $295 million agreement by De Beers, the largest diamond
supplier by sales, to settle antitrust suits became effective in
May, ending restrictions on U.S. operations. The nation accounts
for about 45 percent of diamond-jewelry sales. De Beers operates
10 De Beers Diamond Jewellers stores in the U.S. through a tie-
up with Paris-based LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA.  The joint venture stores were set up with a “completely
independent management team” before the final settlement, De
Beers said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “It’s not like it hasn’t been operating in the U.S., it
just hasn’t been operating directly in the U.S.,” Omar Saad, an
analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group LLC in  New
York , said today by telephone. “Is it better for De Beers to be
able to control its distribution and operations in the world’s
largest diamond market? Yes. Is it a massive shift in the
competitive landscape? I doubt it, at least not anytime soon.”  Oppenheimer Family  The company, with mines in Botswana,  Canada ,  South Africa 
and off the Namibian coast, isn’t ruling out setting up its own
diamond cutting and polishing facilities in the U.S. “Not now,
but never say never,” Mellier said near Gaborone in Botswana.  Anglo American is buying the Oppenheimer family’s 40
percent in De Beers for $5.1 billion, increasing the company’s
holding to 85 percent.  Botswana  owns the rest of the business.  The deal should be effective “within days,” Mellier said
in the interview yesterday. “We are going to agree” with Anglo
“and implement ideas to grow the business,” he said.  Mellier joined the company in July 2011, marking a break
with De Beers’ tradition of internal hiring. An engineer with a
background in cars and trains, Mellier had been vice president
for Alstom SA’s rail equipment and transportation services.  “What we want to do is improve on what we do in the mines
because that’s the biggest part of our business,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  