-- Deere Cuts Forecast as Equipment Sales Slow in Asia
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-08-15T20:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/deere-cuts-forecast-as-overseas-equipment-demand-slows.html
Deere & Co. (DE)  cut its full-year profit
forecast as sales slow in  Asia  and  Latin America , undermining
the growth strategy at the world’s largest manufacturer of
agricultural equipment.  Net income in the year ending Oct. 31 will be $3.1 billion,
Moline, Illinois-based Deere said today in a statement. That
compares with its May forecast of $3.35 billion and the $3.33
billion average of 15 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The shares dropped the most in a year.  Deere is facing weaker demand in  Argentina  and  India , which
are among the developing economies that Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Sam Allen is targeting as the company aims for
$50 billion in annual revenue by 2018. Deere plans to get at
least half its sales from outside the U.S. and Canada by then,
compared with 39 percent in fiscal 2011. The worst U.S. drought
in five decades also threatens the purchasing power of U.S.
farmers.  “The fundamentals are deteriorating,”  Stephen Volkmann , a
New York-based analyst for Jefferies & Co. who has a hold rating
on the shares, said in an interview today.  Deere also reported fiscal third-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates for the first time in 11 quarters, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Manufacturing Inefficiencies’  Deere fell 6.3 percent to $75.10 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest drop since Aug. 8, 2011.  Net income climbed 11 percent to $788 million, or $1.98 a
share, in the three months ended July 31, from $712.3 million,
or $1.69, a year ago. That trailed the $2.32 average of 17
estimates.  Equipment sales rose 16 percent to $8.93 billion from $7.72
billion a year ago, trailing Deere’s May forecast for a gain of
25 percent. The company said sales increased in U.S. and  Canada 
and were “essentially unchanged” elsewhere.  “Sales fell short of our expectations due to weakening in
certain international markets and short-term manufacturing
inefficiencies resulting from the introduction of a record
number of new products,” Allen said in the statement.  Deere maintained its industry farm-machinery sales forecast
in the U.S. and Canada for an increase of more than 10 percent.
The region’s turf and utility equipment sales are expected to be
5 percent higher at most for 2012 because of the U.S. drought.  EU Forecast  Asia sales will drop “moderately” in the full year
because of “softening” in India and  China  while South American
sales will be 5 percent to 10 percent lower because of
“uncertainty” in Argentina and drought earlier in the year in
parts of the region, Deere said.  “Global economic conditions and dryness in several key
markets warrant some caution in coming months,” Allen said.
“However, this year’s drought could positively influence our
outlook as it spotlights the need for  John Deere ’s highly
productive agricultural equipment.”  Full-year industry sales in the European Union will be
unchanged “as strength in the northern European market offsets
weakness in the south,” compared with a previous estimate for a
gain of as much as 5 percent, Deere also said.  Sales in the  Commonwealth of Independent States  are
expected “to be up” strongly this year.  U.S. Drought  The worst U.S. drought in five decades is seen reducing the
country’s corn crop to a six-year low. Corn futures in  Chicago 
have risen to a record in the last month because the drought in
the U.S. Midwest.  The country’s net farm income will drop to $91.7 billion
this year, the second-highest total, the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  said in February. The USDA will update its forecast
on Aug. 28 to reflect the drought that began hurting crops
around June.  A dozen analysts recommend buying the company, eight have a
hold rating and two recommend selling it, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  