-- Delta Petroleum to Get Approval of Restructuring Plan
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-08-15T23:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/delta-petroleum-to-get-approval-of-restructuring-plan.html
Delta Petroleum Corp., an oil and
natural-gas explorer and developer, will receive court approval
of its restructuring plan setting up a joint venture with
Laramie Energy II LLC.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey at a hearing today in
Wilmington,  Delaware , said he will approve Denver-based Delta’s
plan giving creditors equity interests in a reorganized company
that will own 33 percent of the joint venture, Piceance Energy
LLC, after clarifying language is added.  Under the restructuring plan there would be two entities:
the joint venture and the reorganized Delta, according to court
papers. Reorganized Delta would get one-third of the equity
interest in the venture and Laramie the rest, according to court
documents. Delta would also get $75 million to make payments
under the plan.  Piceance Energy would hold the companies’ oil and gas,
surface real estate and other related assets in  Colorado ’s
Garfield and Mesa counties. Delta’s oil and gas lease with
Buzzard Creek Elk Ranch in Mesa County would be excluded.  Delta has received two other offers to co-sponsor its
reorganization plan since reaching a deal with Laramie, Kathryn
Coleman, a lawyer for the company, told Carey.  ‘Buttoned-Up’  Coleman said that despite the offers there wasn’t enough
reason to delay seeking approval of the plan today for one of
them because the company doesn’t want to lose Laramie “to chase
something that may or may not be real.”  “Things aren’t all buttoned-up with Laramie,” she said,
noting that they still need to complete exit financing.  If one of those offers matures into something “we have no
option but to go forward with that,” Coleman said. The company
may cancel the deal with Laramie up until the day the plan
becomes effective.  After holding bidding on April 24 and 25 to either sell the
assets or sponsor a reorganization plan, Delta determined that
Laramie made the “highest and best offer” for the assets,
according to court documents.  The company determined it could provide a greater recovery
for stakeholders if they allowed offers to back a recovery plan
that would preserve its net operating loss carryforwards and
other tax attributes. Delta has about $885 million in NOLs,
which could result in about $309.8 million in tax savings, court
papers show.  Assets, Debt  Delta listed $375.5 million in assets and $310.7 million in
debt in Chapter 11 papers filed Dec. 15 when it sought
 bankruptcy protection . The company mostly operates out of the
Piceance Basin in the Rocky Mountain region of Colorado.  Kirk Kerkorian , the billionaire founder of  MGM Resorts
International (MGM) , is Delta’s largest shareholder, owning a 33
percent stake, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Kerkorian invested at least $684 million in Delta.  Delta owes $152.2 million on 7 percent notes due in 2015
and $115.5 million on 3.75 percent notes due in 2037, according
to court documents. The 7 percent notes traded at 57 cents on
the dollar as of Aug. 1, and the 3.75 percent notes traded at 33
cents on the dollar as of July 31, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulation
Authority.  The case is In re Delta Petroleum Corp., 11-14006,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in  New York  at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  