-- Deutsche Bank Top Hollywood Banker Claims Police Beating
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-08-15T20:58:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/deutsche-bank-top-hollywood-banker-claims-police-beating.html
A  Deutsche Bank AG (DB)  media banker
arrested after an early-morning confrontation with Los Angeles
police in May has filed a claim with the city accusing officers
of beating and illegally detaining him.  Brian Mulligan, vice chairman and managing director of
Deutsche Bank’s Los Angeles entertainment practice, sustained a
broken shoulder blade and 15 nasal fractures, his attorney, J.
Michael Flanagan, said yesterday in an interview. The claim,
which lists damages of as much as $50 million, is a necessary
step before a lawsuit can be filed, Flanagan said by telephone.  City prosecutors said they are considering whether to file
charges against Mulligan, 52, after an outburst of erratic
behavior that resulted in his arrest on May 15 for interfering
with a police officer. Mulligan was forcibly subdued at about 1
a.m. after he took a fighting stance and charged officers who
approached after seeing him attempt to enter moving vehicles in
the city’s Highland Park neighborhood,  Los Angeles  Police
Lieutenant Andy Neiman said in a telephone interview.  The same officers had questioned Mulligan about two hours
earlier after responding to citizen calls that a man was trying
to get into occupied autos in the drive-through lane of a fast-
food restaurant in the area, Neiman said.  Mulligan specializes in financing for Hollywood film and
television studios and has participated in deals including
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Inc.’s $500 million credit facility
announced in February. He joined Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank
in 2009 and previously was chairman of Brooknol Advisors LLC, an
entertainment advisement and investment firm. Before that he had
senior executive roles at Seagram Co.,  Universal Pictures  and
Fox Television.  Wage Losses  Mulligan has been unable to work since the beating, has
lost about $500,000 in pay and stands to lose $5 million,
according to a copy of the claim. In addition to physical
injuries, he has experienced post-traumatic stress syndrome. He
will require reconstructive surgery and psychological treatment
that may cost as much as $1 million, according to the claim.  “Mulligan has been rendered unable to function in his
normal, everyday life, including maintaining the relationship
with his family,” according to the claim.  Cash Questioned  During the first encounter with police, Mulligan was
examined by a drug-abuse expert and questioned about a
“significant” amount of cash seen in his automobile, Neiman
said. There was no evidence that Mulligan was under the
influence of a controlled substance or that the money was
obtained illegally, the police lieutenant said.  “Mr. Mulligan became much more lucid and explained that he
was tired and said if he could get to a hotel and sleep it off
he would be fine,” Neiman said.  At Mulligan’s request, officers transported Mulligan to a
hotel and left him there.  According to his attorney, Mulligan was on foot in the
 Highland Park  area when he was first accosted by officers. It is
Mulligan’s “usual custom and practice” to carry large amounts
of cash, according to the claim. The document doesn’t address
why Mulligan was in the area and Flanagan declined to provide a
reason.  After it was determined that Mulligan wasn’t under the
influence of controlled substances, officers placed him in a
motel, Flanagan said. Mulligan feared that the officers intended
to steal the cash he was carrying, the attorney said.  “They put him in a motel and said, ‘You’re a dead man if
you leave here,’” Flanagan said. “Maybe the fact that he had
$5,000 in cash had something to do with it.”  Facial Scars  Mulligan fled the motel and was apprehended about six
blocks away, where he was beaten and arrested, Flanagan said.  Mulligan was admitted to a local hospital for his injuries.
He was left with facial scars and difficulty smelling and
breathing, Flanagan said.  The officers struck Mulligan with “inappropriate
weapons,” the claim said. Neiman said the officers didn’t use
weapons in the confrontation.  The officers’ use of force in the case is undergoing a
routine investigation, Neiman said. Both remain on their regular
assignments, he said.  Los Angeles city prosecutors are considering whether to
file charges against Mulligan, said Frank Mateljan, spokesman
for the city attorney’s office. An alternative also under
consideration is to schedule a hearing to advise Mulligan how to
avoid similar problems in the future, he said.  No specific time frame has been set for a decision,
Mateljan said.  “Our criminal branch decided to give it one more look
before we move in that direction,” Mateljan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  