-- Dollar Advances Against Yen as Yield Difference Widens
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-15T21:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/dollar-climbs-against-most-peers-amid-waning-fed-qe-bets.html
The dollar touched a one-month high
against the yen as the extra yield investors receive from U.S.
securities rose to the most in three months.  The dollar gained for a third day against  Japan ’s currency
after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report yesterday the
 Federal Reserve  will delay a third round of bond-buying, known
as quantitative easing. Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said
today additional easing could look political. The euro weakened
on speculation the  Swiss National Bank  sold the currency amid an
increase in its foreign-exchange holdings. Canada’s dollar
touched the strongest in three months.  “The combination of changing expectations, and a lot of
the euro-zone risks having abated,” have pushed Treasury yields
higher, said  Mary Nicola , a New York-based currency strategist
at BNP Paribas SA. “The dollar-yen will struggle to sustain a
move stronger as people are still pricing in easing.”  BNP Paribas is expecting the U.S. central bank to announce
a third round of asset purchases in September, Nicola said.  The dollar rose 0.3 percent to 78.99 yen at 5 p.m. New York
time after reaching 79.05, the strongest level since July 18. It
advanced 0.3 percent to $1.2290 per euro. The euro rose 0.1
percent to 97.08 yen.  The  difference  between the yield on the 10-year U.S.
benchmark and a similar maturity Japanese security widened to
100 basis points, the most since May 10. The  yield  on the 10-
year Treasury note touched 1.82 percent, the highest since May
16.  Canada Strength  The Canadian dollar rose 0.3 percent to 98.94 cents per
 U.S. dollar  after touching 98.87, the strongest since May 4. It
traded above parity for a ninth day, amid speculation North
American economic growth will sustain the nation’s exports.  Colombia’s peso dropped to its lowest level in two months
after Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said the Treasury
will buy $300 million this week to curb the currency’s rally.  The peso slid 0.8 percent to 1,817.80 per U.S. dollar. It
has rallied 6.5 percent this year, the best performance in the
world after the Chilean peso and the Hungarian forint among
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The rand weakened for a fifth day, the longest losing
streak in three months. The South African currency retreated as
much as 0.7 percent and traded 0.5 percent weaker at 8.2407 per
dollar.  The  Dollar Index (DXY)  rose 0.2 percent to 82.664. Investors are
betting the Fed will start a third round of asset purchases,
which may debase the currency because of the additional dollars.  ‘Solid Case’  “Our own view remains that there is a very solid case for
additional accommodation under the Fed’s dual mandate of maximum
employment and 2 percent inflation,”  Jan Hatzius , chief
economist at Goldman Sachs in New York, wrote in the report.
“While QE3 at the Sept. 12-13 Federal Open Market Committee
meeting remains possible, our best estimate is that it will take
until late 2012, early 2013 before Fed officials return to
balance-sheet expansion.”  U.S. assets have maintained their attraction as European
Union leaders face a worsening debt crisis.  China , the largest
foreign holder of Treasuries, increased its holdings of the debt
in June, government data released today show. Japan’s position
in  U.S. government debt  rose by $10.4 billion, or 0.9 percent to
$1.1193 trillion, Treasury data show. The country is the second
largest foreign lender to the U.S.  Fisher, a non-voting member of the Federal Open Markets
Committee, said the U.S. needs fiscal clarity and that weak
global demand is prompting a “defensive crouch.” Stimulus is
not having much impact on jobs and may seem political, he said,
speaking in a CNBC interview.  Momentum ‘Uptick’  “The data from today reinforces the message we got from
payrolls and retail sales yesterday, which is that the economy
is not screaming for QE at the moment,”  Richard Franulovich , a
senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “It suggests that there is a
little bit of an uptick in momentum.”  The Swiss National Bank’s foreign-currency reserves swelled
11.3 percent in July to 406.5 billion Swiss francs ($416
billion), it said on Aug. 7. Walter Meier, an SNB spokesman in
Zurich, said then that “a large part” of the increase resulted
from currency purchases to defend the minimum  exchange rate .  The euro tumbled 0.4 percent at about 5:50 a.m. New York
time.  “I’ve heard that a bank has been working with the SNB
selling euros against the pound,” said  Jeremy Stretch , head of
foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
in  London . “In this instance, it’s against the pound. But the
selling pressure of euros in general is acting as a negative on
the currency as a whole, so all the euro crosses are lower,
including euro-dollar.”  Silvia Oppliger, a Zurich-based SNB spokeswoman, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  