-- Don’t Let the SEC Punish Too Harshly
-- B y   R u s s e l l   G .   R y a n
-- 2012-08-15T22:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/don-t-let-the-sec-punish-too-harshly.html
The ink is barely dry on the 2010
 Dodd-Frank  financial-reform law, but Congress is already
considering new legislation that would grant the Securities and
Exchange Commission its latest wish list of much higher
financial penalties, especially against recidivists.  The sponsors of the bill, Senators  Charles Grassley  and
 Jack Reed , say the new law would “crack down” on financial
misconduct so that “the punishment better fits the crime.” If
enacted, this would be the sixth time Congress has ratcheted up
SEC penalties in the past 30 years.  There is scant evidence that increasing penalties again
would improve deterrence or financial compliance, but that is a
secondary concern with the bill. More troubling is that Congress
is incrementally blurring the line between civil regulatory
enforcement and criminal punishment, reflecting an eerie
indifference to due process and the proper constitutional
allocation of law-enforcement responsibility.  Although it’s easy to forget, the SEC had no power to
punish wrongdoers during its first 50 years. It could ask a
court to stop violations and prohibit future misconduct, but it
couldn’t impose penalties. The agency was primarily a regulator
rather than a law-enforcement agency, and for good reason. Penal
law enforcement is an executive branch function under the
Constitution. It is therefore entrusted to the  Justice
Department  headed by an attorney general who serves at the
pleasure of the president, who in turn is politically
accountable to the people.  Constitutional Support  Independent administrative agencies such as the SEC, by
contrast, operate beyond the control of the attorney general and
are headed by unelected officers who are neither Cabinet members
nor removable at will by the president. To the extent they
engage in law enforcement, they do so on thinner constitutional
ice.  A related concern is that civil SEC law enforcement lacks
many due-process safeguards that are taken for granted in
criminal cases. That’s mostly because SEC cases can’t lead to
incarceration. For most other practical purposes, however, the
potential consequences of SEC  law enforcement  -- severe
financial sanctions, lost livelihoods, and destroyed reputations
-- can be just as devastating as a criminal conviction.  But when the SEC seeks harsh punishment in civil cases, its
burden is much lighter than that of a prosecutor seeking
comparable sanctions in a criminal case. The presumption of
innocence in SEC cases is negligible, because the agency doesn’t
need to prove guilt beyond reasonable doubt; it is enough if
guilt appears just slightly more probable than innocence.
Moreover, the right to remain silent is of little comfort,
because the SEC can treat silence as evidence of guilt and draw
an “adverse inference” against the defendant.  Other constitutional rights likewise don’t apply in civil
SEC cases. Courts say the double-jeopardy clause doesn’t
prohibit successive imposition of civil penalties in an SEC case
on top of criminal punishment in a separate prosecution for the
same offense. Similarly, courts generally don’t restrict SEC
penalties under the  Eighth Amendment ’s prohibition against
“excessive fines.” And if the defendant can’t afford an
experienced securities lawyer, tough luck; the government won’t
pay for one because the  Sixth Amendment  right to counsel
generally doesn’t apply in civil cases, and the defendant
usually isn’t indigent enough to qualify for legal-aid
assistance or pro bono representation by a private  law firm .  Unilateral Power  Especially ominous is a change wrought by Dodd-Frank on
which the proposed new legislation would double down. Before
Dodd-Frank, the SEC could win financial penalties against people
outside the regulated securities industry only by proving its
case in a trial before an independent federal judge and jury.
Until recently, it was unthinkable that the SEC could inflict
severe monetary punishment on ordinary citizens and companies
without this basic check and balance, but Dodd-Frank abandoned
that notion with barely a whisper of debate. Since Dodd-Frank,
the SEC can unilaterally impose harsh punishment in its own non-
jury administrative proceedings, subject only to limited review
by a federal court after the fact.  The proposed legislation would discard even the few
safeguards left intact by Dodd-Frank. Existing law at least sets
maximum dollar limits on penalties the SEC can impose
administratively, but the proposed law would remove those,
effectively allowing the SEC to get the same sky-high penalties
whether it goes to court or not. One might reasonably ask why
the agency would ever bother going to court under such a regime.  Making “punishment fit the crime” is a nice sound bite,
but civil SEC remedies have no legitimate role in punishing
crimes. Those who insist otherwise need to acknowledge that
draconian SEC penalties constitute punishment that warrants the
full panoply of due-process rights before they are imposed. That
means proof beyond reasonable doubt, jury trials and no
“adverse inferences” drawn from remaining silent.  It also means SEC penalties should be mutually exclusive of
criminal punishment for the same offense and challengeable as
excessive under the Eighth Amendment. Finally, it means having a
right to competent defense counsel, including appointment at
public expense, if necessary.  (Russell G. Ryan, a former assistant director of the SEC’s
division of enforcement, is a securities lawyer at King &
Spalding LLP in  Washington . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  messy Medicare debate  and
on rejuvenating  India’s economic miracle ;  Jonathan Alter  on  Paul
Ryan’s gift  to Democrats;  Caroline Baum  on why conservatives
 don’t mind meddling  in private affairs;  Ezra Klein  on how Ryan
could be  Democrats’ worst nightmare ; Jonathan Mahler on the U.S.
popularity of  European soccer ; Adam Kirsch on the  politics of
personal destruction  in “Advise and Consent.”  To contact the writer of this article:
Russell G. Ryan at  rryan@kslaw.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 