-- Water Shortages Means 44% Return for Impax’s Water Strategy
-- B y   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-08-15T12:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/drought-in-u-s-means-44-return-for-impax-s-water-strategy.html
Impax Asset Management Group Plc (IPX) , a
London-based investor managing 1.8 billion pounds ($2.8 billion)
in clean-energy funds, is taking a bigger stake in water-related
companies as droughts reduce supplies.  Impax’s water strategy has produced a 44 percent return in
the three years to July 31, more than double the 17 percent gain
by the MSCI World Index and the 7.8 percent increase of the  FTSE
Environmental Opportunities All-Share Index. (EOAS)   “We are particularly interested in the water sector,”
Chief Executive Officer Ian Simm said in an interview. “Over
the past decade, we’ve seen a steady increase in the number of
drought-related events around the world, and have been building
up our water exposure accordingly.”  London-based Impax Asset Management Group Plc specializes
in environmental markets. The value of assets under management
in its water strategy have doubled to 220 million pounds
currently from 112 million pounds at the end of 2008. Its
biggest water investment is in Washington-based  Danaher Corp. (DHR) ,
which makes water disinfection and analysis technologies.  It also has shares in IDEX Corp., a  Lake Forest ,  Illinois ,
maker of pumps, and in the water utility American Water Works
Co. of Voorhees,  New Jersey . There’s also a stake in Severn
Trent Plc, an U.K. water utility, which Impax said is attractive
because of a dividend yield of more than 4 percent and
supportive government regulations.  Just outside the top 10 holdings is Hong Kong-based China
Everbright International Ltd., which develops projects for waste
water and water infrastructure. The Chinese government is
increasingly a major investor in the sector, which Impax said
underpins its growth prospects.  American Drought  This summer the U.S. has experienced the worst drought in a
generation. Water demand could rise by more than 50 percent over
the next forty years as the world’s population increases by two
billion, Pictet Asset Management Ltd., whose Geneva-based water
fund manages $2.8 billion of assets, said in a March 2012
report.  Impax’s water strategy saw a return of 15 percent for the
first three months of this year, according to a presentation
made to investors on May 16.  That exceeded Impax’s broader strategies including the
“Environmental Specialists” and “Environmental Leaders,”
which returned 10 percent and 12 percent respectively in the
quarter. That compares with an 8.8 percent gain in the  MSCI
World Index (MXWO)  and a 9 percent increase for the FTSE Environmental
index during the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  