-- The Senate Rises Above Politics (If Only in Fiction)
-- B y   A d a m   K i r s c h
-- 2012-08-15T22:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/the-senate-rises-above-politics-if-only-in-fiction-.html
The phrase “the politics of personal
destruction” entered the American lexicon during the impeachment
of President  Bill Clinton .  Since 1998, it has become conventional wisdom that we are
living through a uniquely vicious and polarized political
period, a time when opponents no longer want to defeat each
other, but to annihilate each other. Pundits speak of red and
blue states as if a new Civil War was raging.  Rumors  and
slanders that would once have been confined to the fringe --
such as the idea that President Obama is faking his birth
certificate, or is secretly a Muslim -- enter mainstream
discourse.  One of the most commonly named symptoms of the breakdown of
political civility is the polarization in the Senate. Once a
chamber full of gentlemen and statesmen, the story goes, the
Senate is today as bitterly partisan as the House. And the
combination of Senate tradition with extreme politics is said to
be producing an unprecedented gridlock. Senators place
indefinite holds on presidential nominees. Most notably, the
filibuster, once a rarely used piece of political theater, has
become routine, meaning that 60 votes are now required to pass
any major legislation in the Senate -- a supermajority that the
Democrats briefly attained in 2009, and used to pass the
 Affordable Care Act .  Beloved Washington  It is all a long way from the world depicted in Allen Drury’s Pulitzer Prize-winning best-seller “Advise and Consent,”
which was published in 1959. That novel shows that “the politics
of personal destruction” are hardly a product of our own times.
On the contrary, it tells the story of a virtuous senator driven
to suicide by the scandal-mongering of his opponents.  Yet Drury also depicts the Senate as a place of high
ideals, jealous of its honor, where party divisions matter less
than principles and friendships. Drury  is in love  with
 Washington , in a way that seems antique today, with politicians
of all parties running as enemies of “the Beltway.” Drury loves
to describe how a Senate quorum is called, what goes on at a
Georgetown party, even how the Tidal Basin looks when the cherry
blossoms come out.  The plot of “Advise and Consent” centers on the president’s
nomination of Robert Leffingwell to be secretary of state, and
the novel follows four main characters and a host of subsidiary
ones as they fight to confirm or defeat the nominee. In
Leffingwell, a patrician liberal who got his start in politics
as a New Dealer, there are strong echoes of Alger Hiss, whose
career was similar. Soon enough the nominee is plunged into a
confrontation with a  Whittaker Chambers  figure out of his past,
who accuses him of having once been part of a Communist cell.  Drury effectively weights the novel against Leffingwell,
painting him as a wishy-washy peacenik who will jeopardize
America’s resolve to fight back against Soviet aggression. The
closest thing in the novel to an outright villain is Senator
Fred Van Ackerman, a young, fire-breathing liberal who rallies
support for Leffingwell by giving speeches of the better-dead-
than-Red variety: Drury takes care to paint him as a demagogue
verging on a psychotic.  On the other hand, Leffingwell’s chief opponent, Seabright
Cooley, is a long-serving Dixiecrat in the Strom Thurmond mold,
who may be a racist and spoilsman, but whose heart is always
shown to be in the right place. The spectrum of opinion mirrors
that of the  Democratic Party  in the 1950s, but Drury goes out of
his way not to use party labels. He writes only of “the majority
party” and “the minority party,” a token of his belief that in
the Senate, partisanship matters much less than principle and
personal relationships.  Deadly Secret  Through a series of contrivances, the fate of the
nomination comes to rest on the shoulders of Utah Senator
Brigham Anderson, a widely admired young politician with a
dangerous secret. Years earlier, during World War II, he had a
gay love affair with a fellow soldier. Today, we are accustomed
to thinking of the 1950s as the great age of repression and
homophobia, but in “Advise and Consent” we find a best-selling
novel that treats homosexuality with total sympathy, reserving
all its condemnation for the gay-baiting politicians who would
use it to destroy Anderson.  Threatened with exposure unless he gives up his opposition
to Leffingwell, Anderson commits suicide, becoming a martyr to
prejudice and to the honor of the Senate. (Drury based this plot
on the real-life case of  Lester Hunt , who committed suicide in
his Senate office in 1954, after political opponents threatened
to publicize his son’s arrest for soliciting a male prostitute.)  The driving force behind the blackmail of Anderson, it
turns out, is the president himself. An unnamed figure who
resembles the elusive  Franklin Roosevelt  more than the
straightforward Dwight Eisenhower, the president is depicted in
an ambiguous light that reflects Drury’s conflicted attitude
toward power itself. Watching the president in action, the
humble, Harry Truman-like vice president reflects: “This, he
supposed, was greatness -- this ineffable combination of
sincerity, insincerity, straightforwardness, duplicity,
determination, adaptability and sheer downright guts. Thank God
he wasn’t great, he told himself with a surge of innocent
relief.”  In another novel, the destruction of Anderson would be all
you needed to know about the price of power and the ruthlessness
of the powerful. Even Robert Penn Warren’s Willie Stark doesn’t
do anything quite so loathsome. Yet Drury allows the senators of
“Advise and Consent” a chance to reassert their basic decency
and integrity, and to show another face of American politics:
principled, nonpartisan and solely dedicated to the nation’s
welfare. Van Ackerman, the persecutor of Anderson, is censured
and effectively cast out of the Senate.  Conscience Prevails  When the Leffingwell nomination finally comes up for a
vote, the majority leader instructs his followers to vote their
conscience, not the party line. “The system had its problems,
and it wasn’t exactly perfect,” Drury writes, “yet...there was a
vigor and a vitality and a strength that nothing, he suspected,
could ever quite overcome, no matter how evil and crafty it
might be.”  And in the novel’s last sequence, both parties and all
branches of government rally together in the face of a
threatening message from the  Soviet Union , which -- in this
post-Sputnik, pre-Apollo novel -- is supposed to have just
landed the first man on the moon. Politics stops at the water’s
edge, yet another old truth of American politics that today
sounds antiquated, if not hypocritical.  “Advise and Consent” concludes with a paean to “a few
scraps of things, the memory of a meeting in Philadelphia, a
speech at Gettysburg,” and other icons of American myth. Today,
the noble individuals who populate Drury’s Senate seem similarly
mythical -- relics of a bygone age that we will not recapture,
no matter how much we miss it.  (Adam Kirsch is a senior editor at the New Republic and a
columnist for Tablet magazine. He is the author of “Why Trilling
Matters.” The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part
2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 5  of his series on classic political novels.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  messy Medicare debate  and
on rejuvenating  India’s economic miracle ;  Jonathan Alter  on  Paul
Ryan’s gift  to Democrats;  Caroline Baum  on why conservatives
 don’t mind meddling  in private affairs;  Ezra Klein  on how Ryan
could be  Democrats’ worst nightmare ; Jonathan Mahler on the U.S.
popularity of  European soccer ; Russell G. Ryan on giving the
Securities and Exchange Commission  too much power .  To contact the writer of this article:
Adam Kirsch at  adam.kirsch@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  