-- Lehman Said to Hire BlackRock to Manage $3 Billion Loan Assets
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s ,   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-08-15T13:58:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/lehman-said-to-hire-blackrock-to-manage-3-billion-loan-assets.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. hired
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  to oversee about $3 billion of loans it provided
to companies before filing the largest bankruptcy in U.S.
history, as the bank accelerates efforts to repay creditors.  The BlackRock Solutions advisory group, which has helped
the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  sell toxic debt taken on
during the 2008 bailout of American International Group Inc.,
was assigned the contract, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be identified because
the terms are private. WCAS Fraser Sullivan Investment
Management LLC previously oversaw the loans, which are typically
for high-yield, high-risk companies.  “The manager was changed by mutual agreement between the
company and the prior manager due to a shift in strategy,”
 Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, said in an e-mail,
citing confidentiality agreement in declining to name BlackRock.  Lehman switched to BlackRock, the world’s largest money
manager, after emerging from bankruptcy in March and as it seeks
to raise $53 billion through 2016 to pay creditors an average of
18 cents on the dollar. A new board is taking advantage of
rising appetite for assets ranging from commercial property to
corporate debt that helped sink the investment bank in September
2008. Last week Lehman moved to take apartment owner Archstone
Inc. public to capitalize on soaring demand for rentals.  Farrell Denby, a spokesman for New York-based BlackRock,
and John Fraser, co-founder of WCAS Fraser Sullivan, declined to
comment.  Buyout Wave  Lehman was the seventh most active underwriter of U.S.
leveraged loans in 2007, arranging $54.8 billion of deals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Under Chief Executive
Officer Richard Fuld, the bank helped finance takeovers for
First Data Corp. and TXU Corp. as private-equity firms took
advantage of cheap financing to undertake a wave of buyouts.  Demand for the debt started to dry up in July 2007 and
effectively vanished when Lehman’s September 2008 bankruptcy
froze credit markets and led to the worst financial crisis since
the 1930s. The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100
Index plunged to a record low 59.2 cents on the dollar in
December 2008 after starting the year at 94.8 cents.  Lehman, which retained portions of credit lines and loans
to companies, was stuck with debt it couldn’t sell.  The  bankruptcy court  approved WCAS Fraser Sullivan to
manage $5.3 billion of the debt in August 2011, including $1.5
billion of unfunded loan commitments. The plan was for the New
York-based money manager to hire 10 people from Lehman’s Legacy
Asset Management Co., or LAMCO, and securitize some of the
loans, according to an August 2011 statement.  Prices Rise  The firm would create at least two CLOs, a type of
collateralized debt obligation that pool high-yield, high-risk
loans and slice them into securities of varying risk and return,
by August 2012. Lehman would receive interest payments from the
lowest portions of the funds.  The bank, which said it engaged a new manager to oversee
the portfolio, according to a July 30 regulatory filing, changed
course as values of loans recovered. Prices have risen 3.99
cents to 94.74 cents this year, the highest level since July
2011.  The change in manager doesn’t mean Lehman is liquidating
the portfolio, according to one person with knowledge of the
strategy. Lehman has avoided forced asset sales, such as with
its real estate holdings, since the bankruptcy.  BlackRock Solutions has worked with the U.S. government,
helping the New York Fed sell more than $70 billion of toxic
debt assumed during the bailout of AIG and  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s takeover of Bear Stearns Cos. That includes subprime bonds
and CDOs tied to commercial mortgage backed securities. It’s
also assisted governments in Ireland and  Greece  by evaluating
their troubled banks.  The New York Fed has benefited this year as the  Federal
Reserve  has held  interest rates  near zero, fueling demand by
fixed-income investors for higher-yielding assets. Leveraged
loans are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and
lower than BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  