-- Growth Concern Sinks Telecoms as Hollysys Jumps: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-08-15T21:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/telecoms-lead-adr-slump-on-wen-s-growth-outlook-china-overnight.html
Chinese telecommunications operators
traded in  New York  dropped on concern a slowdown in the world’s
second-largest economy will threaten smartphone usage growth,
while  Hollysys Automation Technologies Ltd. (HOLI)  jumped.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. was little changed at 92.48
yesterday.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU) , the nation’s second-
largest wireless network carrier, fell the most in three weeks
as  China  Telecom Corp., the third-biggest, sank to a one-week
low.  Sina Corp. (SINA)  slid for a fourth day before reporting second-
quarter results yesterday. NetEase Inc. surged to a one-month
high ahead of its earnings announcement after market close.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said downward pressure on the
economy remained “relatively large,” the nation’s state radio
said yesterday. Easing inflation allows more room to adjust
monetary policy, Xinhua News Agency reported separately
yesterday, citing Wen. Banks’ bad loans in China increased for a
third straight quarter, the banking regulator said yesterday.
Analysts predict second-quarter profits at China Unicom and
China Telecom will decline, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Weaker-than-expected economic growth will delay the
process for current mobile service users to upgrade their
devices to smartphones,” Michael Ding, lead manager of the
 China Region Fund (USCOX)  at U.S. Global Investors Inc., which oversees
$2.2 billion, said by phone from  San Antonio , Texas yesterday.
This will reduce “the operators’ earnings,” he said.  China ETF Retreats  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., dropped 0.8 percent to $34.93.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of the biggest U.S. shares rose
0.1 percent to 1,405.53.  Consumer prices in China rose 1.8 percent last month, the
 slowest pace  since January 2010. Policy makers cut  interest
rates  in June and July after two reductions in banks’ reserve-
requirement ratios this year as the economy decelerated for a
sixth quarter.  American depositary receipts of China Unicom sank 2.1
percent to $15.90, the steepest decline since July 23.  The company, scheduled to report  second-quarter earnings  on
Aug. 23, will probably say that adjusted profit declined 26
percent to 1.8 billion  yuan  ($280 million), according to the
average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its price estimate for
Unicom’s ADRs to $18 from $18.9 in a report yesterday, citing
concern that the company may lose third-generation subscribers
market share. It maintained a neutral rating on the stock.  China Telecom’s ADRs sank 1.6 percent to $52.69. Goldman
reduced its 12-month price target for the company to $59 from
$60 and reiterated a neutral rating.  Mobile Network Deal  China Telecom expects to acquire the its parent’s mobile-
phone network, with a net asset value of 120 billion yuan by
year end, Jack Yung, a Hong Kong-based spokesman of the unit,
said in an e-mail on Aug. 3. It is still negotiating terms of
the proposed acquisition, and no agreement has been reached,
Yung said.  The price China Telecom will pay is “slightly above the
book value” and competition will intensify in fixed-line
business with  China Mobile (CHL)  Ltd., Donald Lu, an analyst at
Goldman in Beijing, wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday.  ADRs of China Mobile, the country’s biggest carrier,
dropped 0.7 percent to $58.89. Goldman increased its price
target to $67 from $64 and maintained a buy recommendation on
China Mobile.  Sina, Hollysys  Sina, which provides the Twitter-like Weibo service,
declined for a fourth day, retreating 1.3 percent to $50.90. The
company may report a net loss of $3.9 million for the second
quarter, after posting a net income of $9.96 million a year ago,
according to the mean estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Hollysys, a Beijing-based maker of industrial automation
systems, jumped 7.5 percent to $9.03, the highest level since
May 30.  The company said in a Aug. 14 statement that it expects
sales of $385 million to $410 million for the fiscal year 2013,
exceeding the $370 million average estimate of five analysts.  Beijing-based NetEase, China’s second-biggest online games
company, increased 3.8 percent to $58.18 in New York, extending
a four-day gain.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dipped 1.1 percent to 2,118.95
yesterday while the  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese
companies plunged 1.4 percent to 9,779.06, the most in three
weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  