-- Telemarketers Get Higher Approval Rating Than U.S. Congress
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/telemarketers-get-higher-approval-rating-than-u-s-congress.html
Stockbrokers receive higher public-
approval marks than the  U.S. Congress . So do telemarketers,
health maintenance organizations and banks.  Approval of Congress’s performance fell to 10 percent in
August, tying a record low set in February, according to a
Gallup poll released Aug. 14.  A separate pair of Gallup surveys from June and December
show that the public views a range of institutions and
professions more favorably than Congress and its members.  Only 6 percent of respondents in the June  survey  said they
had “a great deal” of confidence in Congress, while almost
one-half, 47 percent, said they had “very little.” That’s less
confidence than the public places in big business, banks, HMOs
and newspapers, according to Gallup.  Former Representative  Mike Castle , a Delaware Republican,
said in a telephone interview that the high level of scrutiny to
which lawmakers are subjected contributes to the public’s
unfavorable views.  When a member of Congress is involved in a personal or
criminal scandal, “that becomes page one headline news,”
Castle said yesterday. “When a person of another profession may
do the same type of thing, it’s probably a lesser story.”  Bottom Ranking  In his current job as a registered lobbyist with  DLA Piper ,
Castle is part of a profession that the public rates low in
terms of honesty and ethical standards, according to Gallup.  Gallup, which has approached the institutional popularity
question in different ways over time, has consistently found
Congress at the bottom.  Members of Congress, lobbyists and car salesman tied for
last place in a Nov. 28-Dec. 1 Gallup  poll  in which 7 percent of
respondents assessed the honesty and ethical standards of people
in the three jobs as “high” or “very high.”  Stockbrokers, telemarketers, lawyers, journalists and
funeral directors scored higher.  “Part of it is just the character of the news about
Congress,” said  John Pitney , a political scientist and
professor at  Claremont McKenna College  in Claremont,  California .
“If a member of Congress is totally upstanding and a good
family person and is scrupulous about finances, that doesn’t
make news.”  The most recent survey, released Aug. 14, found that 83
percent of Americans disapprove of the way Congress is doing its
job, the latest in a string of poor marks that the legislative
branch has received. The 10 percent approval rating, down from
16 percent in July and 17 percent in June, ties the lowest
ranking registered for Congress since Gallup began measuring
congressional approval 38 years ago.  Equal Disdain  The largest decline in approval was among Democrats polled.
Nine percent approved of the institution’s performance in
August, down from 18 percent in July.  The survey found equal disdain for Congress across
political groups, with 10 percent of Republicans and 11 percent
of independents saying they approved. The Aug. 9-12 telephone
poll of 1,012 adults has a margin of error of plus or minus 4
percentage points.  Congress’s approval rating, which reached a record high of
84 percent in October 2001 after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
hasn’t exceeded 20 percent in Gallup’s monthly survey since May
2011.  As of yesterday, Congress had sent 79 bills to President
 Barack Obama  for his signature this year. Many of them name post
offices or convey land parcels, and most of the rest extend
previously approved programs.  This year’s slow pace of legislating is reminiscent of last
year’s, when lawmakers sent to Obama 90 bills that eventually
became law. The 2011 output barely topped that of 1995, when 88
bills were signed into law, fewer than at any time since the
Congressional Record started keeping track in 1947.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  