-- Eletrobras Net Quadruples on Dollar Revenue From Itaipu
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-08-15T21:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/eletrobras-net-quadruples-on-dollar-revenue-from-itaipu.html
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) ,
 Brazil ’s largest utility, said second-quarter profit more than
quadrupled as dollar revenue from its power dam venture with
 Paraguay  surged in local-currency terms.  Net income jumped to 1.35 billion reais ($670 million) from
327 billion reais a year earlier, the Rio de Janeiro-based
state-run power producer and distributor, known as Eletrobras,
said in a regulatory filing late yesterday. The result missed
the 1.4 billion-real profit excluding some items expected by
analysts, according to the average of three estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Brazil’s real declined 9.1 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
in the quarter, the worst performance among 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The weaker real boosted the local-currency
value of dollar-denominated revenue from Itaipu, the world’s
second-largest hydroelectric dam, which straddles the Brazilian
and Paraguayan borders.  “There’s an effect from the dollar’s appreciation, because
Eletrobras has dollar revenues from Itaipu,” Filipe Corga Acioli, an analyst at Rio-based Agora CTVM SA, said in an Aug.
10 telephone interview, before the earnings were announced.
Corga rates the stock hold.  Eletrobras booked a 701 million-real financial gain
stemming from the real’s decline, compared with a 404 million-
real loss a year earlier.  Eletrobras rose 0.7 percent to close at 20.62 reais in Sao
Paulo trading. It’s down 23 percent this year, compared with a
2.5 percent increase in the benchmark Bovespa index. The
earnings report was release after markets closed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  