-- EMC Weighs Using $5.65 Billion Cash on Security Startups
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/emc-weighs-using-5-65-billion-cash-on-security-startups.html
Just three years ago,  EMC Corp. (EMC)  was
considered takeover bait. How things have changed: Since then, 
the world’s biggest maker of storage computers has made 15 
acquisitions and its mergers team is figuring out how to use 
$5.65 billion in cash to bulk up in security technology.  “The biggest area would probably be security,” said
President and Chief Operating Officer David Goulden, when asked
about EMC’s acquisition plans in a July 25 interview. He said
the company had “all the key parts we were looking to put
together” in its core storage business.  To fuel growth and repel competition, EMC uses acquisitions
and a research and development budget that topped $2 billion
last year. It also deployed a venture capital team to monitor
emerging companies and turn them into allies before they become
threats. EMC needs to show it can keep up  revenue growth  as an
explosion in corporate data and shift to Internet-based cloud
computing spurs former partners such as  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL)  to enter the $64 billion storage industry.  “The market is now saying EMC is likely to be a
consolidator and not a consolidatee,” said Chief Executive
Officer Joe Tucci, in an interview at EMC’s Hopkinton,
Massachusetts offices, where the entryway to the executive suite
is decorated with two of EMC’s newest sleek, black,
refrigerator-sized storage machines.  Smart Buyers  Potential targets could include firewall companies such as
 Fortinet Inc. (FTNT)  and  Palo Alto Networks Inc. (PANW) , said  Brian Marshall ,
an analyst at ISI Group who lists EMC as his top stock pick for
the next few years. Tony Ursillo, an analyst at Loomis Sayles &
Co., said EMC may go for a firewall company, and adds  Check
Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP)  to a list of possible targets.  “EMC and Oracle are arguably the two most savvy acquirers
in the entire tech landscape and the two most successful,”
Ursillo said.  Reflecting the value the market places on its potential,
EMC is  valued  at 15 times projected 2012 earnings, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, compared with 12 for Oracle and 6
for Dell. EMC shares have gained 19 percent this year, compared
with 17 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  While Goulden declined to discuss possible targets, he said
security technology needs to be “reinvented” for a new age of
cloud computing, where programs and security can be moved 
together smoothly from server to server.  “There’s a lot of startups doing that kind of stuff now,
so there’s a lot of opportunity for us to expand,” said
Goulden, who was promoted to president and COO in a
reorganization last month.  Traditional firewall and antivirus technology sold by
 Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  and other companies is being upstaged by more
innovative products crafted by startups such as Fortinet and
Palo Alto Networks.  On Top  Three years ago, financial analysts at firms such as Credit
Suisse and Stifel Nicolaus & Co. expected EMC to be acquired by
a tech giant like  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  or  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  The
company was mentioned in Barron’s and the  New York  Times as a
potential target.  EMC was viewed as too small to reach the top tier of
technology firms by itself, said Abhey Lamba, an analyst at
Mizuho Securities USA. That isn’t a comment you hear anymore, he
said. While EMC’s erstwhile acquirers have faced challenges, it
consolidated a lead in the storage market. The 2004 acquisition
of VMware for $635 million, which Lamba lists as the best
technology acquisition of all time, boosted sales growth and
thrust EMC into the vanguard of cloud computing.  Fueling Growth  EMC posted annual revenue growth of 18 percent in 2011 and
21 percent in 2010, bolstered by acquisitions, including the
$2.25 billion purchase of Isilon Systems Inc. As its biggest-
ever takeover, Isilon allowed EMC to serve a faster-growing part
of the storage market and fend off competition from  NetApp Inc. (NTAP) 
Sunnyvale, California-based NetApp is the only one among EMC’s
peers with a  comparable  2012 price-earnings ratio of 16.  EMC’s revenue growth compares with 1 percent for Hewlett-
Packard and 4.2 percent for Oracle in their latest fiscal years.  “The key for EMC is continuing to grow in adjacent markets
and to look how they can continue 10 percent-plus annual revenue
growth,” said ISI’s Marshall.  EMC also keeps a close eye on early-stage startups though a
venture capital program. Run by a small team with a budget the
company won’t disclose, it takes several-million-dollar stakes
in young companies to learn about emerging technologies. When
EMC sees promise, it buys the startup, such as the purchase of
Israeli flash storage company XtremIO Inc. in May for $430
million.  Turf Wars  EMC’s joint venture with Cisco, forged in 2009 to sell
software and gear for data centers, also could fall apart, said
Mizuho’s Lamba. He said he expects Cisco -- having expanded into
the server market -- to try moving into storage and could buy
NetApp, creating a more formidable competitor.  Tucci said although Cisco could try its hand at storage,
EMC values the partnership and it’s his “strong, strong
desire” to retain it. Yet VMware last month bought Nicira, a
software-based networking company and a direct Cisco competitor.  After delaying a planned move from the CEO job until at
least the end of 2013, Tucci is unlikely to depart from EMC’s
longstanding acquisition policy of buying smaller companies. He
said integrating big companies takes attention away from
promising new technologies that come with a deal. While larger
rivals will expand into wider categories, EMC will be cautious,
he said.  “The big players will try and be more and more and more
self-sufficient,” he said. “In there presents a weakness, too.
I don’t know how you get great at everything.”  Most Opportunistic  Tucci said the industry is about two years into a 10-year
wave of change that will be the biggest in the history of
 information technology : the shift to cloud computing, which
allows companies to tap into software online without installing
programs onto their own hardware. The trend will be “the most
opportunistic” and “the most destructive,” he said.  Now a new shakeout is under way and already claiming
victims. Jeremy Burton, EMC’s executive vice president for
product operations and marketing, cites Hewlett-Packard as an
example of a company that has fallen behind because it failed to
keep pace with research and development investments. He also
lists  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Research in Motion Ltd.  as companies that
“were giants five years ago and now they look like they’re
history.”  Tucci knows the risks. He joined EMC in 2000 when the
company was the second-best performer in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index for the previous decade with products that underpinned
the Internet boom. Then the bubble burst, precipitating a two-
year slide in EMC’s sales before Tucci was able to turn it
around.  “If you get complacent, you’re going to get killed,” he
said.  -- Editors: Reed Stevenson, Jillian Ward  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  