-- Emerging Stocks Fall as Chinese Shares Drop Most in Three Weeks
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-15T21:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/emerging-stocks-fall-as-chinese-shares-slide-most-in-three-weeks.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, led by
the biggest drop in Chinese shares in three weeks, as rising bad
loans fueled concern the nation’s economic slowdown will deepen.  The MSCI Emerging Markets  Index (VXEEM)  retreated 0.3 percent to
974.23. The Hang Seng  China  Enterprises Index of mainland
companies listed in  Hong Kong  lost 1.4 percent as  China Life
Insurance Co. (2628)  and  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd.
declined.  Brazil ’s Bovespa stock index gained, with homebuilders
 Brookfield Incorporacoes SA (BISA3)  and  Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  gaining the most.  China’s banking regulator said  bad loans  increased for a
third straight quarter, the longest streak of declines in eight
years. China’s “golden years” are gone as growth in the
second-biggest economy slows, an official at Rio de Janeiro-
based  Vale SA (VALE3) , the largest iron-ore producer, said yesterday. A
report showed manufacturing in the  New York  area unexpectedly
contracted in August for the first time since October.  “The news flow from China is going to deteriorate a great
deal and at this point the endgame is uncertain,” John-Paul
Smith, an emerging-market strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in
 London , said by phone. “Many emerging-market assets need a high
level of activity out of China and without that they are in a
lot of trouble. The only thing that can rescue emerging markets
is an upturn in the  U.S. economy .”  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, fell for a
third day, dropping 0.1 percent. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
declined 4.1 percent.  Bovespa Slumps  The Bovespa index rose 0.2 percent, led by Brookfield
Incorporacoes, which gained 6.1 percent. Gafisa advanced 5.5
percent.  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general economic
index fell to minus 5.9 this month from 7.4 in July, indicating
U.S. factories are burdened by the global economic slowdown. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists was 7.0.
Readings less than zero signal contraction in the so-called
Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern  New Jersey 
and southern  Connecticut .  The MSCI  developing-nations measure  has climbed 6.3 percent
this year, trailing an 8 percent gain by the MSCI World Index.
Shares in the  emerging-markets  index trade at 10.8 times
estimated earnings, compared with the average multiple of 13 for
the developed-nation gauge, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  China Life  The Philippine peso depreciated 0.6 percent, the most since
June, as the government signaled it may take steps to limit the
currency’s strength.  China Life Insurance, the nation’s biggest insurer by
market value, retreated 3.4 percent, the most since July 23. The
company said yesterday after trading closed that premium income
in the seven months through July fell 5.6 percent. ICBC, the
country’s largest lender by market value, declined 1.1 percent.  Non-performing loans rose by 18.2 billion  yuan  ($2.86
billion) in the three months ended June 30 to 456.4 billion
yuan, the China Banking Regulatory Commission said in a
statement on its website today. Bad loans surged at all types of
banking institutions, including the largest state-owned lenders,
rural banks and foreign banks, the regulator said.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (493) , China’s second-
largest electronics retailer, sank 6.9 percent in Hong Kong
after the company and rivals Suning Appliance Co. and 360buy.com
announced campaigns to cut prices. Haier Electronics Group Co.,
a washing machine and water heater manufacturer, lost 5 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
bonds over U.S. Treasuries fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 310, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  