-- Tencent Profit Rises 32% on China Online Advertising, Games
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-08-15T16:08:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/tencent-profit-rises-32-on-china-online-advertising-games.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) ’s second-
quarter profit jumped 32 percent as  China ’s biggest Internet
company drew more advertisers to its social-networking websites
and added online-game players.  Net income  climbed to 3.1 billion  yuan  ($487 million) from
2.35 billion yuan a year earlier, Tencent said in a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday. That compares with the
3.08 billion-yuan average of nine analysts’  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales rose 56 percent to 10.5 billion yuan.  Tencent added social-networking users to sites including
Qzone and Pengyou, helping boost  Web advertising sales  even as
economic growth in China slowed. Chief Executive Officer Pony Ma
is increasing spending on e-commerce operations to challenge
local industry leader Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and pare
reliance on online games.  “The company has outperformed the rest of the advertising
market, and is selling more ads on its online video and social
networking sites,” said Dundas Deng, who rates Tencent buy at
Guotai Junan Securities in Shenzhen. “The company did well in
online games.”  Tencent fell 0.2 percent to HK$230 at the close in  Hong
Kong  trading yesterday, before the earnings announcement. The
stock’s 47 percent climb this year is the  second-biggest
percentage gain  on the city’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI) , which
has gained 8.8 percent.  “We achieved strong revenue growth on our social networks
during the quarter,” Tencent said.  Game Sales  Online games sales rose 53 percent to 5.57 billion yuan in
the second-quarter, Tencent said. Internet advertising revenue
increased 72 percent to 880 million yuan, the Shenzhen-based
company said.  Last month, Tencent said it will offer  Activision Blizzard
Inc. (ATVI) ’s “Call of Duty” game in China. That’s one of more than
40 titles in Tencent’s games pipeline, according to an Aug. 13
report by Jefferies Group Inc. analyst Cynthia Meng in Hong
Kong.  Tencent plans to accelerate the expansion of its online
games business overseas, which at present account for a
“small” proportion of game revenue, President Martin Lau said.  “It’s an area we will devote more resources to,” Lau said
in a conference call with analysts yesterday, without providing
details. Overseas game revenue has increase “quite a bit” in
the past few quarters, he said.  Tencent’s “League of Legends” game was the most popular
title in  South Korea  with a market share of 21 percent,
according to a May 12 report by Barclays Plc’s investment-
banking unit.  Cost of Revenue  Cost of revenue rose 85 percent to 4.31 billion yuan,
partly because of expenses in its e-commerce business, Tencent
said. In May, Tencent said it plans to invest $1 billion in its
e-commerce unit to meet rising demand for online shopping in
China.  The proposed investment in e-commerce is planned “over a
relatively long period of time,” Lau said on the call, without
specifying a time frame. Tencent’s spending will be “prudent,”
he said.  Tencent had 783.6 million monthly active user accounts for
its QQ instant messaging service at the end of June, after
adding 31.7 million last quarter. The company had 469 million
registered users for its microblog service at the end of June,
it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  