-- England Cricket’s Pietersen Apologizes for Criticizing Teammates
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-08-15T11:59:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/england-cricket-s-pietersen-apologizes-for-criticizing-teammates.html
England  batsman  Kevin Pietersen 
apologized to the England and Wales Cricket Board for
criticizing his teammates in “provocative” text messages to
 South Africa  squad members.  Three days ago, Pietersen was left out of England’s squad
for the third Test against South Africa, which starts tomorrow
at Lord’s in  London , after the texts critical of team captain
 Andrew Strauss  came to light. England managing director Hugh Morris said further discussions were needed to see if the South
African-born Pietersen could be added back to the team.  His exclusion came a day after he committed himself to the 
team, saying he’d play in all forms of the game, following a 
wrangle over his international career. In May, Pietersen said 
he’d only play Tests in the future. He’d wanted to pull out 
of 50-over one-day internationals and carry on with five-day 
Tests and Twenty20s but ECB contracts don’t allow that.  “I did send what you might call provocative texts to my
close friends,” Pietersen said in a statement released by the
ECB. “The texts were meant as banter between close friends. I
need to rein myself in sometimes. I apologize to Straussy and
the team for the inappropriate remarks at the press conference
and for the texts. I truly didn’t mean to cause upset or tension
particularly with important games at stake.”  In the second Test at Leeds he scored 149 runs in the first
innings as England went on to draw the game and trail 1-0 in the
three-match series.  England needs to win the final match to retain its No. 1
Test ranking. South Africa won the opening match at the Oval in
London by an innings and 12 runs.                       Discussions  Last weekend the England and Wales Cricket Board said it
held “several discussions” with Pietersen but had been unable
to reach an agreement on his inclusion. It said one sticking
point was that Pietersen wouldn’t admit that he sent derogatory
 text messages  about England to South Africa players.  The  Daily Mail  reported that he had sent the texts during
the last Test that contained “less than flattering” comments
about Strauss and his teammates.  “We are in receipt of Kevin’s apology, but further
discussions need to take place to establish whether it is
possible to regain the trust and mutual respect required to
ensure all parties are able to focus on playing cricket and to
maintain the unity of purpose that has served us so well in
recent years,” Morris said in the statement. “Critically,
those discussions should take place behind closed doors, rather
than in the media spotlight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 