-- Lenovo Earnings Rise 30% as PC Maker Boosts Market Share
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-15T23:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/lenovo-earnings-rise-30-as-pc-maker-boosts-market-share.html
  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of personal computers, posted a 30 percent
increase in first-quarter profit as it expanded market share
globally to almost pull even with leader  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   Net  income  climbed to $141.4 million in the three months
ended June 30, from $108.8 million a year earlier, Lenovo said
in a statement today. That beat the $133.5 million average of
eight analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Lenovo increased shipments of computers including Thinkpad
laptops by almost 15 percent in the three months ended June,
even as industry shipments fell 0.1 percent, researcher Gartner
Inc. said last month. The PC maker expanded its global market
share by two percentage points to 14.7 percent, almost matching
Hewlett-Packard Co.’s 14.9 percent share.  “Lenovo benefits from their position in the China
market,” Christine Wang, a Taipei-based analyst at Daiwa
Capital Markets, said before the earnings. “Their penetration
in China’s countryside and lower-tier cities is higher than any
of the others. In lower-tier cities the PC growth rate is still
double-digit, which is why Lenovo is able to beat the industry
average.”  Revenue rose 35 percent to $8 billion, compared with an
estimate for $8.12 billion, the average of 13 analysts in the
Bloomberg survey.  The company, with headquarters in Beijing and Morrisville,
 North Carolina , plans to become the world’s biggest PC maker,
Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  said in October. He helped
boost sales by acquiring control of  Medion AG (MDN) , an Essen,
Germany-based computer maker, and the PC unit of Tokyo-based  NEC
Corp. (6701)  last year.  Yang is also stepping up development of smartphones,
tablets and Internet-ready televisions to widen the Chinese
company’s product line for consumers, following Apple Inc. and
Samsung Electronics Co.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  