-- ENRC Says $8.8 Billion Spending Review Won’t Negate Split
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-08-15T15:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/enrc-profit-falls-60-as-commodity-prices-slip-reviews-spending.html
Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC) ’s
review of $8.8 billion of planned spending on mine development
won’t negate an existing study into splitting up the company
that was set up this year to seek ways to fund the expenditure.  “The strategy review and capex review go in parallel,”
Chief Executive Officer Felix Vulis said in a phone interview
today. “One will have an effect on the other, that is for sure,
but it’s not like if we decided to delay the capex that will
cancel, for example, the split of the company.”  The producer of metals in  Kazakhstan  reported a 60 percent
slump in first-half profit today and said it planned to review
spending on new developments as commodity prices slide, eroding
earnings. The review follows the announcement of a study into
spinning off foreign operations to boost funds for expansion.  The company, a producer of ferroalloys,  iron ore , aluminum
and electricity in Kazakhstan, also owns copper and cobalt
assets in Zambia and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.  “The company is in a position where it has to review and
prioritize capex projects,” said Biraj Borkhataria, an analyst
at ING Groep NV. “Investors may start to become nervous with
debt rapidly rising and the earnings outlook weakening.”  Net debt rose to $3.41 billion at the end of the half from
$972 million at the start of the year, ENRC said in a statement,
while the company reduced its estimated  capital spending  for the
full year to $2.4 billion from the previous $2.7 billion figure.  Profit Slide  Net income dropped to $463 million in the half from $1.17
billion and sales slid 19 percent to $3.25 billion. Output of
saleable ferroalloys, used in steel, fell 3.1 percent to 595,000
metric tons and iron-ore extraction shrank.  The company declined 8.5 percent to 379.6 pence by the
close in London trading, the steepest decline since Sept. 22.  ENRC, like larger peers Rio Tinto Group and  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) , faces rising costs and lower prices as growth slows in
 China , the world’s biggest commodities consumer. The price of
iron ore, ENRC’s biggest earner last year, averaged about $141 a
ton in the half, down 21 percent on a year earlier.  “ENRC has shown a resilient performance in the first half
of 2012, a period characterized by deepening economic
uncertainty and declining prices for our key products,” it
said. ENRC is in the “advanced stages of reviewing all capital
expenditure projects that are not currently in execution.”  Further declines in commodity prices will be “limited”
even though a recovery is unlikely in the second half, the
company’s Chief Commercial Officer Jim Cochrane said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  