-- Seattle’s Hernandez Throws 23rd Perfect Game, 3rd of MLB Season
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/hernandez-throws-3rd-perfect-game-of-mlb-season-23rd-in-history.html
Felix Hernandez  pitched the 23rd
perfect game in Major League Baseball history and the third this
season as the Seattle Mariners defeated the Tampa Bay Rays 1-0.  It’s the first time three perfect games have been thrown in
a major league season. Chicago White Sox right-hander Philip Humber pitched one April 22 -- in Seattle -- and  Matt Cain  of
the San Francisco Giants achieved the feat June 13.  Hernandez struck out 12 of the 27 batters he faced
yesterday at Safeco Field in Seattle to improve to 11-5 this
season. The three-time All-Star and winner of the 2010  Cy Young 
Award as the best pitcher in the American League raised his arms
and kissed his right hand before being mobbed by his teammates
after he struck out  Sean Rodriguez  to end the game.  “It’s always on my mind in every game -- I need to throw a
perfect game,” Hernandez told reporters. “For every pitcher I
think it’s in his mind. It’s something special.”  Dallas Braden of the Oakland Athletics and  Roy Halladay  of
the Philadelphia Phillies threw perfect games in 2010. Lee
Richmond threw the first perfect game on June 12, 1880, and John
Ward got the second five days later. It was another 24 years
before Cy Young recorded the third in major league history.  “Felix had great command of all his pitches all day
long,” Seattle catcher John Jaso told reporters.  Jesus Montero’s third-inning single scored Brendan Ryan for
the only run of the game.  Fourth No-Hitter  It’s the fourth no-hitter in Mariners history and the
second this season.  Kevin Millwood  and five Mariner relievers
combined to no-hit the visiting Los Angeles Dodgers on June 8.
The Mariners’ previous no-hitters were thrown by Chris Bosio in
a 2-0 win over Boston on April 22, 1993, and  Randy Johnson  in a
2-0 shutout against Detroit on June 2, 1990.  Hernandez is the second pitcher born in Latin America to
throw a perfect game after Dennis Martinez, a Nicaraguan who
pitched one for the Montreal Expos against the Dodgers in 1991.  The Rays have now given up three perfect games to tie the
Dodgers for the MLB record. Braden’s perfect game two seasons
ago was against Tampa Bay and  Mark Buehrle  also threw one
against the Rays on July 23, 2009.  Also this season, Johan Santana of the New York Mets
pitched a no-hitter June 1, the first in the team’s history, and
Jered Weaver of the Los Angeles Angels threw one May 2.  Texas Rangers President and Hall of Famer Nolan Ryan holds
the major league record with seven no-hitters.  The  San Diego Padres  are the only major league team not to
have thrown a no-hitter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  