-- European Stocks Little Changed; Mining Shares Lead Drop
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-08-15T15:59:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/european-stock-index-futures-slip-carlsberg-might-move.html
European (SXXP)  stocks were little changed,
after the Stoxx Europe 600 reached its highest level in almost
five months yesterday, as a worse-than-expected manufacturing
report for the New York area revived hopes the Federal Reserve
will act to stimulate the economy.  A gauge of European mining companies slumped, with  Rio
Tinto  Plc dropping 3.4 percent. Eurasian Natural Resources
Corp., a Kazakh metal producer, slid the most in 11 months.
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  gained 4.1 percent after the company
settled a New York money laundering probe for $340 million.  The Stoxx 600 lost 0.1 percent to 270.35 at the close of
trading. European stocks rallied for the last 10 weeks amid
better-than-expected company earnings and speculation policy
makers from will do more to stimulate the economy. The Stoxx 600
climbed yesterday as a report showed German growth slowed less
than forecast.  “The surprisingly weak Empire State index is disappointing
and shows that the mood in the U.S. industry remains tense,”
Ulrich Wortberg, an analyst at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen, wrote in an e-mail. “With these numbers, the QE3
topic could get a little bit more life again,” he said,
referring to a potential third program of stimulus from the U.S.
 Federal Reserve .  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the Stoxx 600 was 53 percent lower than the average of the last
30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Markets in
Italy, Luxembourg, Austria and Greece were closed today.  National Benchmarks  National benchmark indexes declined in eight of the
western-European markets that were open today. France’s CAC 40
retreated less than 0.1 percent, while the U.K.’s FTSE 100 fell
0.5 percent. Germany’s DAX slipped 0.4 percent.  In the U.S., a report showed that manufacturing in the New
York area unexpectedly contracted in August for the first time
since October. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s general
economic index fell to minus 5.9 this month from 7.4 in July.
The median estimate in a  survey  of Bloomberg economists was 7.0.
Readings less than zero signal contraction in the so-called
Empire State Index, which covers New York, northern New Jersey
and southern Connecticut.  A separate report showed industrial production in the U.S.
increased in July, propelled by a pickup in motor vehicle output
and a rebound in utility use during the hottest month on record.  The 0.6 percent increase last month at factories, mines and
utilities followed a revised 0.1 percent gain in June that was
smaller than previously reported, Federal Reserve data showed
today in Washington. Economists forecast a 0.5 percent rise,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  U.K. Jobless  U.K.  jobless claims  unexpectedly fell in July as the
 Olympic Games  created jobs in London. Jobless-benefit claims
fell 5,900 to 1.59 million, the Office for National Statistics
said today. The median forecast of 29 economists in a Bloomberg
News Survey was for a gain of 6,000.  Spain’s government is considering a request for a sovereign
bailout, European Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  signaled.  “The Spanish government has an open mind on this issue,
but no decision has been made,” Rehn said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in New York yesterday. “We stand ready to
act if there is a request.”  His remarks came after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he
would ask the  European Central Bank  to buy Spanish bonds “if it
seems reasonable.”  Miners Decline  A gauge of European  mining companies  posted the worst
performance of the 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600.  China’s “golden years” are gone as economic growth at the
world’s second-biggest economy slows, said an official at  Vale
SA (VALE3) , the top iron-ore producer.  Iron-ore prices dropped to the lowest since Dec. 2009
yesterday on slower growth in China, the biggest user of the raw
material, and a weaker outlook for the global economy.  Rio Tinto lost 3.4 percent to 3,038 pence, contributing the
most to the Stoxx 600’s decline, while BHP Billiton Plc fell 2.3
percent to 1,936.5 pence.  Eurasian Natural Resources (ENRC)  slid 8.5 percent to 379.6 pence,
its biggest decline since Sept. 22. First-half sales of $3.25
billion missed the average $3.4 billion analyst estimate, and
the company said the market will remain volatile with uncertain
pricing. Net income for the period fell 60 percent to $463
million.  Cigarette Ruling  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  lost 1.7 percent to 2,489 pence.
Australia will become the first country to require cigarettes to
be sold in uniform packages after its top court rejected a
challenge from  tobacco companies , setting a precedent for other
nations to follow.  The  High Court  of Australia dismissed claims by companies,
including  Imperial Tobacco , that the government illegally seized
their intellectual property by barring the display of trademarks
on packs.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  fell 1 percent to 188.75 pence after
Bank of America Corp. cut the world’s second-biggest mobile-
phone company to neutral, the equivalent of hold, from buy.  Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone company partly controlled by
 Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, lost 1.3 percent to 6.57 euros
after it halted the sale of its Belgian mobile-phone unit Base,
saying the non-binding offers it received were
“unsatisfactory.”  The bids for the mobile-phone unit reflected the “current
difficult financial-market conditions and didn’t take Base’s
strong position and outlook into account,” the Hague-based KPN
said today in a statement.  FirstGroup Slides  FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  slumped 6.1 percent to 243.2 pence. The
company won a U.K. Department for Transport contract to operate
the new InterCity West Coast rail franchise, which links London
with Scotland, until 2026. Shares had gained 7.6 percent in the
last five sessions after reports that it may win the contract.  Standard Chartered increased 4.1 percent to 1,426.5 pence
as it settled a New York money-laundering probe for $340 million
a day before the bank was to appear at a hearing to defend its
right to continue operating in the state. It still faces federal
investigations over allegations it helped Iran funnel money
through the U.S.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  rallied 3.4 percent to 2.08 euros. Reuters
reported the company will keep Windows as its smartphone
platform, citing Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop. Shares
pared gains of as much as 8.1 percent after  Standard & Poor’s 
cut the company’s debt, already at junk status, by two
additional steps, as the unprofitable mobile-phone maker loses
market share and burns cash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  