-- Euro Advances Against Yen Amid Spain Financial Aid Speculation
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-08-15T08:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/euro-advances-against-yen-amid-spain-financial-aid-speculation.html
The euro advanced against the yen
for a third day as  European Economic  and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  signaled that Spain is considering asking
for an international bailout to curb borrowing costs.  Europe’s common currency was 0.1 percent from its strongest
level in a week against its Japanese counterpart. The yen fell
against all of its 16 major peers before a report economists
said will show U.S. industrial production rose last month,
sapping demand for the currency as a haven. The dollar climbed
for a third day against the yen on speculation signs the
economic recovery is being sustained will reduce the chances of
further monetary easing from the  Federal Reserve .  “It would actually be positive” if Spain asked for help,
said  Geoff Kendrick , head of European currency strategy at
Nomura International Plc in  London . “That would actually be
euro-positive because then you’d have the European Central Bank
buying. As long as they do enough buying, it kind of stems
contagion.”  The euro rose 0.4 percent to 97.37 yen at 9:52 a.m. London
time, after climbing yesterday to 97.47 yen, its strongest level
since Aug. 8. It gained 0.1 percent to $1.2334. The dollar
appreciated 0.3 percent to 78.94 yen.  “The Spanish government has an open mind on this issue,
but no decision has been made,” Rehn said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in  New York  late yesterday. “We stand
ready to act if there is a request.” That came after Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he would ask the ECB to buy Spanish
bonds “if it seems reasonable.”  Industrial production in the U.S. rose 0.5 percent last
month after a 0.4 percent gain in June, according to the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey before today’s
data. The New York Fed’s  general economic index  is predicted to
be at 7 in August, a separate survey indicated. Readings greater
than zero signal expansion in the region and the last negative
reading was in October.  Commerce Department figures yesterday showed July retail
sales expanded more than economists forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  