-- Hewlett-Packard Remakes WebOS as Gram to Revive Brand
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-08-15T20:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/hewlett-packard-remakes-webos-as-gram-startup-to-revive-brand.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. is rebranding
WebOS -- the mobile software acquired from Palm Inc. -- as an
internal startup called Gram and recruiting staff for the
venture, according to an internal company e-mail.  “We are no longer a consumer hardware brand, we are a
different company with a focus on software, user experience,
cloud, engineering and partnering,” Martin Risau, a senior vice
president at Hewlett-Packard, wrote in a recent e-mail that was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Under Chief Executive Officer  Meg Whitman , Hewlett-Packard
plans to run Gram as a wholly owned subsidiary, apart from the
larger organization, to help spur innovation and revive demand
for the kinds of products that once featured WebOS. The company
discontinued smartphones and tablets running WebOS a year ago,
under former CEO  Leo Apotheker , and Whitman began offering the
software code under an open-source license in December.  The company said at the time it would make WebOS available
to device makers under a license that requires companies using
it to contribute their changes back to the software product.  In his e-mail, Risau said Gram will include the operating
system, Hewlett-Packard’s Enyo  software development  tools, and
software for delivering programs via cloud computing over the
Internet. The venture will operate in “stealth mode”  to give
it time to grow, he said.  Windows 8  Hewlett-Packard is attempting to position WebOS as an
alternative to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android mobile
operating systems, which will be difficult after  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
releases its Windows 8 touchscreen software later this year,
said Josh Greenbaum an analyst at Enterprise Applications
Consulting in Berkeley, California.  “As nice an operating system as it was at the time, if you
want an alternative to iOS and Android, you’ll go to Windows
8,” Greenbaum said. WebOS, which features the ability for users
to run multiple program simultaneously, has seen its base of
customers and developers dwindle, he said.  The decision to rebrand WebOS was previously  reported  by
WebOS Nation blog.  Hewlett-Packard’s shares fell 0.4 percent to $19.29 at the
close in  New York . The  stock  has declined 25 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  