-- MF Trustee Says He will Work With Customers Suing Corzine
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-15T21:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/mf-trustee-says-he-will-work-with-customers-suing-corzine-1-.html
The trustee liquidating MF Global
Inc. said he planned to work with customers in a lawsuit against
 Jon Corzine  and other former brokerage executives, helping to
prosecute claims and eventually distributing any money they
recovered to claimants.  Trustee James Giddens struck a “cooperation agreement”
with lawyers for the plaintiffs, whom he will help assert “all
possible claims and legal theories for recovery,” he said.
Working with them on a suit in progress in federal court in
Manhattan, he won’t have to duplicate their efforts, he said
today in a statement.  Under the plan, Giddens will assign to the plaintiffs his
“potentially viable” claims against Corzine and other officers
and directors of the MF Global holding company being sued. U.S.
District Judge  Victor Marrero  has been combining the cases,
saying they make similar claims about Corzine and other company
officials.  In a court filing today, the trustee said his own
investigation shows that in the company’s final week of
operations, certain officers, directors and employees used
segregated customer funds to pay the parent’s debts. They did so
“with conscious disregard, recklessness, or negligence in
violation of statutory and common law including breach of their
fiduciary duties,” he said.  The agreement needs a U.S. bankruptcy judge’s approval in
 Manhattan , he said.  Bankruptcy Filing  Parent company  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ)  filed the eighth-
largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31 with debt of almost
$40 billion after making $6.3 billion in bets on sovereign debt
and getting margin calls. The brokerage is being separately
liquidated to pay customers facing a $1.6 billion shortfall.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 