-- Facebook Claimant’s Lawyers Quit After Judging Case a Fraud
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-08-16T01:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/facebook-claimant-s-lawyers-quit-after-judging-case-a-fraud-1-.html
A  New York  law firm that represented
 Paul Ceglia  in his suit claiming to own part of  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
quit the case last year after determining the contract on which
he bases his case is a fraud, according to a letter from the
firm that was cited by a judge.  The letter, by Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman LLP,
informed two other firms on Ceglia’s team, DLA Piper LLP and
Lippes Mathias Wexler Friedman LLP, that it was withdrawing from
Ceglia’s case. U.S. Magistrate Leslie Foschio disclosed the
subject of the April 13, 2011, letter, which wasn’t made public,
in an order filed today in federal court in Buffalo, New York.
He said he had reviewed the letter in chambers.  In his order, Foschio gave Ceglia three days to produce the
document to Facebook and fined Ceglia and his current lawyer,
Dean Boland, $1,000 each for failing to obey earlier orders to
produce it. Foschio, who called their conduct “beyond
disrespect,” ruled earlier that Ceglia had waived any claim of
attorney-client privilege by disclosing the letter to a person
outside his legal team.  Ceglia claims a 2003 contract with  Mark Zuckerberg ,
Facebook’s co-founder and chief executive officer, entitles him
to half of Zuckerberg’s Facebook holdings. Facebook is trying to
get the suit dismissed, arguing that the contract is a forgery.  DLA Piper and Lippes Mathias withdrew from Ceglia’s case in
June 2011, without giving a reason, after less than three months
on the job. DLA Piper, which has 4,200 lawyers, is one of the
biggest law firms in the world. The Lippes Mathias team was
headed by former New York Attorney General Dennis Vacco.  Boland, of Lakewood,  Ohio , didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment on Foschio’s ruling and the
Kasowitz Benson letter.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  