-- Fed Steps Up Newly Issued Debt Buys, Stimulus Drains Supply
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-08-15T15:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/fed-steps-up-newly-issued-debt-buys-as-stimulus-soaks-up-supply.html
The  Federal Reserve  has been
accelerating purchases of more newly issued Treasuries as part
of its maturity-extension program while primary dealers’
willingness to offer securities to the central bank ebbs.  For the first time, the Fed bought the so-called on-the-
run, or most actively traded, 10-year note last month as part of
its Operation Twist program. It purchased $667 million of the
benchmark 10-year on July 18, followed by $1.57 billion on July
25 and $1.85 billion on Aug. 6.  The 21 primary dealers  submitted  offers equaling $2.22 for
each $1 of the securities bought by the Fed in yesterday’s debt
purchases, compared with an average of $2.8 in offers this year.
The Fed’s Operation Twist followed buying $2.3 trillion of
mortgage and Treasury debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of
so-called quantitative easing, or QE, while Treasury yields
reached record lows in July.  “The Fed purchases have been moving further and further
into recently issued bonds in different maturity sectors,” said
 Scott Sherman , an interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse
Group AG in New York, in an interview. “It’s a signal that the
central bank is consuming the inventory out there that people
hold and are willing to sell in old off-the-run issues. The Fed
therefore is going to have to buy where there is supply that
people are willing to get rid of. And recently issued bonds fit
that description.”  Monetary Policy  The Fed is purchasing Treasuries as part of its effort to
support the economy by swapping $667 billion of short-term debt
with longer-term securities to lengthen the average maturity of
its holdings, an action dubbed Operation Twist.  The central bank sold $7.8 billion in Treasuries today with
a maturity range of February 2014 through August 2014 as part of
Operation Twist. The Fed is scheduled to purchase between $1.5
and $2 billion in bonds maturing from February 2036 through
August 2042 tomorrow.  The Fed owns its self-imposed  upper limit  of 70 percent of
the total outstanding of seven notes that have maturity dates
between 2020 and 2022 in its System Open Market Account, or
 SOMA , as of Aug. 8, according to data on the Fed Bank of  New
York ’s website. In the 10- to 20-year maturity sector, the
central bank overall owns 34 percent of the amount outstanding,
according to Barclays Plc.  With the Fed owning more than 50 percent of the outstanding
amount of many off-the-run notes, holders are becoming less
willing to sell and this may eventually affect liquidity,
Sherman said. When there are fewer securities in the open market
to buy and sell it can affect liquidity by increasing the spread
between the bid and offered prices, making it more difficult to
purchase or sell large quantities.  Holdings Limit  The Fed imposed a limit for its open-market debt purchases
of as high as 70 percent of the total outstanding of any single
Treasury security in December 2010.  “In the eight- to 10-year maturity sector, there are only
a few securities that are still eligible to be offered to the
Fed,” said Anshul Pradhan, an interest-rate strategist in New
York at Barclays. “Primary dealers end up absorbing a
substantial share of the auctions, which makes it easier for
them to offer recently issued securities to the Fed.”  The U.S. central bank has held short-term  interest rates 
near zero since 2008 and plans to keep them there through 2014
to stimulate the world’s biggest economy. Benchmark 10-year
yields reached a record low 1.38 percent on July 25, while 30-
year bond yields established an all-time low of 2.44 percent on
July 26.  Economic Watch  Earlier this month, the Fed said it would pump fresh
stimulus, if necessary, into the weakening economic expansion to
boost growth and reduce an  unemployment rate  that’s been stuck
at 8 percent or higher for more than three years.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  “will provide additional
accommodation as needed to promote a stronger economic recovery
and sustained improvement in labor market conditions in a
context of  price stability ,” it said on Aug. 1 in a statement
at the end of a two-day meeting in  Washington . “Economic
activity decelerated somewhat over the first half of this
year.”  “If we were to continue to see the Fed buying the on-the-
runs then it could impact liquidity,” said Larry Milstein,
managing director in New York of government and agency debt
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors. “In the past, you have seen
that if liquidity becomes an issue, the on-the-run begins to
trade very rich versus the off-the-runs. When that has happened,
you’ve generally seen a reaction with the Treasury coming out to
issue more of the same bond to improve liquidity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  