-- Florida’s Stearns, Who Led Solyndra Probe, Loses Primary
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-08-15T20:28:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/florida-s-stearns-who-led-solyndra-probe-loses-primary.html
U.S. Representative  Cliff Stearns ,
who led a House investigation into federal aid to solar-panel
maker Solyndra LLC, conceded defeat in Florida’s Republican
primary, losing to a Tea Party-backed newcomer, Ted Yoho.  Stearns, 71, trailed Yoho, a veterinarian, 34 percent to
33 percent, in a four-way race, figures from the Associated
Press show. The top two candidates were separated by 830 votes
of 64,000 ballots cast, according to the AP tally today.  “I am disappointed that I won’t be able to continue my
investigations of the Obama administration,” Stearns said in a
statement. He was bidding for a 13th term.  Yoho, 57, sold his Gainesville-based veterinary practice
last year to make his first full-time foray into electoral
politics, he said. He credited anti-tax, anti-spending Tea Party
groups in  Florida  with helping him defeat Stearns, state Senator
Steve Oelrich and Clay County Court Clerk James Jett.  One Yoho television spot  featured  three men in dark suits
rolling in mud with a voiceover saying, “Career politicians are
like pigs feeding at the trough.”  Leadership Lacking  Stearns “talked a good game, but it was his lack of
leadership that brought us here,” Yoho said of the congressman
during a telephone interview. “Mr. Stearns was there for a
quarter of a century and never passed one bill that faced the
serious problems of our country: immigration, energy
independence, health care or our deficit.”  Yoho will face Democrat J.R. Gaillot, who ran unopposed for
his party’s nomination from the North Florida district, in the
Nov. 6 general election.  Stearns is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee’s oversight and investigations panel. He led House
Republican critics of New York-based  Planned Parenthood , a
women’s health-service provider, and the $535 million Energy
Department loan guarantee awarded to Solyndra. The manufacturer
entered bankruptcy two years after receiving the support.  “He let his national profile with the Solyndra
investigation get in the way of making sure he was connecting
with primary voters,”  Nathan Gonzales , deputy editor of the
Rothenberg Political Report, said in a telephone interview.  $2 Million Left  “Otherwise, he wouldn’t have finished with $2 million in
the bank and 800 votes short,” Gonzales said, referring to how
much Stearns has left in his campaign fund.  Stearns’ investigation into whether Planned Parenthood
illegally used government money to pay for abortions led to a
decision in February from the Susan G. Komen for the Cure
organization to end about $680,000 in grants to the group.
Komen, a Dallas-based advocacy group for those afflicted with
 breast cancer , reversed its decision after supporters expressed
indignation.  The House report on Solyndra said the Energy Department
ignored red flags in the company’s finances and that White House
officials were interested in promoting the company’s award
before the administration review was completed. Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has emphasized the probe,
saying Solyndra symbolized Obama’s broader shortcomings in
trying to revive the economy.  Yoho said Stearns should have known about Solyndra’s
financial issues and the politics involved in the aid “before
that money was handed out.”  ‘Fed Up’  “People are fed up with the ineffectiveness of Washington
and the whole process,” said Yoho, whose campaign slogan is
“Had Enough?”  In another Florida race pitting a Republican incumbent
against a Tea Party-backed challenger, U.S. Representative  John Mica  defeated Representative Sandy Adams last night in a primary
in a redrawn House district near  Orlando .  Mica, chairman of the House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee, had 61 percent of the vote compared
with 39 percent for Adams, according to the AP. Adams, in her
first term in Congress, had support from Tea Party figures
including former Alaska governor Sarah Palin.  Mica, in his 10th term in Congress, will face Jason Kendall, a self-described fiscally conservative Democrat, in the
November general election. Kendall defeated Nicholas Ruiz for
the Democratic nomination, 61 percent to 39 percent with 100
percent of precincts reporting, according to the AP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in  Washington  at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  