-- Foote’s Texas Mating Games; Speedy ‘Richard III’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-08-15T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/foote-s-texas-mating-games-speedy-richard-iii-review.html
“Give me back my arm!” a deranged
man shouts at the manager of a cotton gin where he lost the limb
in an accident.  He’s not the only one howling in “Harrison, TX: Three
Plays by Horton Foote.”  A spurned lover is given to drunken, late-night bellowing
of “Helen!” that has scandalized the mostly female residents
of the rooming house where she is trying to get on with her
life.  These and all the other denizens of Harrison, the great
fictional wellspring of Foote’s prolific imagination, are drawn
with a compassion that never clouded his gimlet eye.  Foote, who died in 2009, was equally adept at full length
plays and one-acts like these crystalline miniatures.  In “Blind Date,” Foote’s daughter and unequalled
interpreter, Hallie, plays a nervous aunt whose attempts to find
a suitable match for her dour niece (Andrea Lynn Green) are
invariably rebuffed.  “The One-Armed Man” -- set, like “Blind Date,” in 1928
-- concerns a showdown between a not-unlikable cotton-gin
manager (Jeremy Bobb) and the man (Alexander Cendese) who
reappears regularly to demand the return of his arm.  Live Television  The longest of the three plays (the entire evening runs
well under two hours) is “The Midnight Caller,” written in
1956, when Foote was a top writer for live television dramas.  It takes place in a rooming house where Helen (Jenny Dare
Paulin) falls in love with a new tenant (Bobb) to the distress
of her ex.  The eldest tenant, played by the incomparable Jayne
Houdyshell, shares moments of revelation and optimism with the
others with Hallie Foote on hand as the solicitous landlady.  Foote was an American Chekhov, the subtlest actions of his
characters releasing the greatest emotions. Pam MacKinnon, one
of our most gifted directors (“Clybourne Park”), lets things
unfold at a natural pace. The plays are cast perfectly, the tone
not reverential yet intensely soulful.  Through Sept. 15 at 59E59 Theaters, 59 E. 59th St.
Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://www.ticketcentral.com 
Rating: ****  ‘Richard III’  The  Public Theater ’s Mobile Shakespeare Unit takes Joseph
Papp’s institution back to its 1950s roots, bringing Shakespeare
to audiences that can’t make it to the Astor Library in the East
Village or the Delacorte in  Central Park : The infirm, the
imprisoned, the poor and others.  A production of “Richard III” that has travelled the
boroughs has settled in for a run at the downtown home base and
it’s worth seeing for the extraordinary performance of Ron
Cephas Jones in the title role.  A brief prologue brings the audience up to date on who’s
who. Then Jones makes his entry, sinister, brooding and intense,
in a black caped hoodie.  He’s riveting as he declaims the murderous Gloucester’s
jealous assessment of the times: “Now is the winter of our
discontent made glorious summer by this sun of York,” outlining
his plan to usurp the throne and become Richard III.  There’s just one problem.  No Barking  Jones is very tall, all muscle and sinew, pharaonic in look
and regal in pose. Though he wears the metal and leather leg
brace and glove favored by many Richards, it’s impossible to
believe this character’s self-description as so hideously
deformed that dogs bark at him in the street and no woman would
want to sleep with him.  This is a severely stripped-down, Poor Theater-style
production (it runs barely 90 minutes without intermission).
It’s performed in the round, with minimal set and lighting and
delivered, under Amanda Dehnert’s direction, at breakneck speed,
which doesn’t always serve the text.  A big white tarp includes the names of every character,
X-ed out in red as each falls to Richard’s diabolical plan.  The actors include Suzanne Bertish, spitting out Queen
Margaret’s curses with enthusiasm, and Michelle Beck as Lady
Anne, whom Richard successfully woos after killing her father
and her husband.  “I’ll have her, but I will not keep her long,” Cephas
Jones sneers, sending a chill -- and a thrill -- through the
audience.  Through Aug. 25 at 425 Lafayette St. Information: +1-212-
967-7555;  http://www.publictheater.org .
Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and
 Warwick Thompson  on opera.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 