-- Ford Seeks Relief From Most Expensive Workers
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-08-15T13:56:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/ford-seeks-relief-from-most-expensive-workers.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  enters labor
negotiations in  Canada  today seeking concessions from its most
expensive workers. With the Canadian dollar rising and U.S.
workers already acquiescing to money-saving steps, union leaders
will be under pressure.  The Canadian Auto Workers union, which is opening talks
with Ford, General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC, is headed
by Union President  Ken Lewenza , representing about 21,000
workers. He vowed yesterday to resist further givebacks.  While the Canadian dollar has strengthened 52 percent
against the U.S. currency over the last decade, the three
automakers have moved U.S. union-retiree medical costs off of
their books, frozen wages of senior workers and lowered pay and
benefits for new employees.  “The reality is that all of the new capacity that is being
put in in North America tends to be in the U.S. South or in
Mexico and those are in lower-cost jurisdictions,” said Carlos
Gomes, an economist with Scotia Capital Inc. by phone from
Toronto. “So obviously maintaining that cost competitiveness is
going to be the key from the company’s perspective.”  Ford estimates that it spends $79 for every hour of work in
Canadian plants, when including costs for benefits and retirees,
compared with $64 an hour in the U.S., $48 in  Germany  and $35 in
 Australia , Lauren More, a Ford spokeswoman, said. Looking just
at wage rates, CAW assemblers get about $34 an hour, 21 percent
more than the $28 paid to a senior worker represented by the
 Detroit-based United Auto Workers  union, she said.  ‘Main Focus’  “Competitiveness will be the main focus of the
discussions,” More said yesterday in an e-mail. “Right now,
labor costs are higher in Canada than at any other Ford
operation in the world. When it comes to future investment,
labor costs are one of the most important considerations.”  The CAW disputes Ford’s estimates, saying much of the gap
relates to former employees. Without these so-called legacy
costs, union labor runs a little more than C$62 an hour,
compared to C$60 for workers in the CAW’s American counterpart,
said Jim Stanford, the union’s economist.  While he puts the cost gap against the UAW at about 5
percent, Stanford said competition from low-cost jurisdictions
like  Mexico  means the union risks losing investment.  “We have to respect our members’ desire to get some
recognition for the sacrifices they made,” he said. “And
remember: It’s a democratic process, so these contracts have to
be approved by our members. On the other hand, we recognize our
costs look high because of the dollar so we have to be careful
about what we add to the costs.”  2009 Concessions  Canada and Ontario provided a combined C$13.7 billion to
the rescues of GM and Chrysler in 2008 and 2009, and the CAW
agreed to a wage freeze, sacrificed bonuses and gave up time off
among its concessions. It avoided the so-called two-tier wage
system that the UAW conceded to in the U.S. The UAW last year
accepted profit-sharing bonuses instead of cost-of-living pay
increases or base wage raises, which Lewenza says the CAW
opposes.  “I warn the companies not to be overzealous in their
talks,” Lewenza told reporters in Toronto. “Again, I don’t
want to emphasize the term warning, but the reality is our
membership has put us on notice that the corporations’ period of
overzealousness, quite frankly, must come to an end.”  John MacDonald, 33, who has worked on the line at GM’s
Oshawa, Ontario, assembly plant since 2004, said he and his co-
workers aren’t interested in making concessions now that the
companies are all profitable again.  Profits Swing  “We’ve made those sacrifices,” he said in a telephone
interview from Oshawa. “To do that and then turn around and
hear, ‘well, it’s not good enough,’ it doesn’t resonate with all
of the people I work with.”  Automakers’ profits soared last year, with GM setting a
full-year record and Ford earning more than in any year since
1998. While  North America  remains the companies’ most profitable
region, this year hasn’t been as rosy: Both automakers’ first-
half net income was cut in half.  GM slid 39 percent since its November 2010 initial public
offering and Ford fell 12 percent this year through yesterday.
GM was little changed at $20.18 in  New York  at 9:41 a.m. and
Ford was steady at $9.45.  Canada and Ontario provided financial aid to GM and
Chrysler in exchange for ownership stakes in both companies to
preserve an estimated 52,000 jobs, according to the country’s
2012 budget plan. Canada holds about 140 million shares, or  9
percent (GM) , of GM’s common stock. The country exited its Chrysler
investment in July 2011.  Former Advantages  Lewenza said the government should step in again. In April
the union released a national auto policy that included a call
for the government to intervene to lower the value of its
currency, to negotiate “manufacturing footprint commitments”
with automakers.  The  auto industry  has been confronted by a rise in the
Canadian dollar against its U.S. counterpart in the past 10
years that has made Canada’s factories less competitive.  The nation’s system of universal health care long provided
a cost-advantage compared to American workers. By 2007 the car
companies had managed to move a large part of their U.S. health-
care costs off the books and into a separate fund managed by the
union, said Kristin Dziczek, the director of the Center for
Automotive research. That removed two-thirds of the Canadian
union’s cost advantage, she said.  “The health care was an advantage, the currency was an
advantage, and those are all kind of neutralized,” she said by
telephone from  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan .  Already Cutting  Ford and GM are already reducing their presence in Canada.  Ford retrenched last year to one assembly plant in Canada,
the Oakville, Ontario, factory that makes the Ford Edge and Flex
and Lincoln MKX and MKT sport-utility vehicles. The company in
September closed its St. Thomas, Ontario, facility that made the
Ford Crown Victoria police cruiser and Lincoln Town Car sedan.  GM said June 1 that it plans to shut its consolidated
assembly line in Oshawa, Ontario, in June 2013, which will
eliminate 2,000 jobs, according to the CAW. The company plans to
shift production of its Chevrolet Equinox sport-utility vehicle
from Oshawa to  Tennessee , where most workers will be paid less
than $16 an hour. Oshawa is where GM makes the new Cadillac XTS
full-size luxury sedan.  Canada will probably lose new-vehicle assembly work to
lower-cost Mexico through the next decade, according to industry
researcher R.L. Polk & Co. Canada’s share of North American car
and light-truck assembly may slip to 12.6 percent in 2017 and
12.1 percent in 2022, from 15.8 percent this year, Polk said in
a July 9 report on its website.  Jeff Schuster , an auto analyst at LMC Automotive in Troy,
Michigan said the flagging global economy makes a strike
undesirable for the company, while the need to win future
investment makes it dangerous for the union, but anger among the
workers could cause one anyway.  “Honestly I don’t think either side can afford it,” he
said by telephone. “Given the situation, given the environment
that we’re in, I don’t think either side can afford a strike. It
doesn’t mean one won’t happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  