-- Ford Boosts Investment for Battery-Powered Cars
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-08-16T00:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/ford-boosts-investment-for-battery-powered-cars.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , debuting five
battery-powered models this year, is spending $135 million to
design electric-drive parts and double battery testing capacity.  Ford is moving more battery research in-house and has hired
60 engineers in the last year, bringing its electric-vehicle
engineering staff to more than 1,000, according to a statement
today. The moves help reduce the cost of hybrid systems by 30
percent and speed development by 25 percent, Ford said.  Almost all of the electric-vehicle engineers will work
under the same roof to foster “an innovative atmosphere,” Joe Bakaj, Ford’s vice president of powertrain engineering, told
reporters in Dearborn, Michigan. Some of the $135 million
includes a U.S. Energy Department grant, Christin Baker, a Ford
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Ford has said hybrids, plug-in hybrids, and all-electric
cars will account for as much as 25 percent of its new vehicle
sales by 2020, from less than 3 percent last year. The second-
largest U.S. automaker is competing in the nascent market for
electrified vehicles with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors
Co. (GM) , Nissan Motor Co. and startups such as  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  and
closely held Fisker Automotive Inc.  Ford said it plans to hire “dozens” of additional
engineers for electric-vehicle development. It’s also renaming
its 285,000-square-foot (26,477-square-meter) advanced
engineering center in Dearborn the “Ford Advanced
Electrification Center.”  Electrified vehicles accounted for 3.4 percent of the U.S.
market in this year’s first half, up from 2.2 percent a year
earlier, according to researcher LMC Automotive. Hybrids fell to
2.2 percent of the U.S. market last year, down from 2.4 percent
in 2010 and 2.8 percent in 2009, LMC said.  Ford’s Share  Ford, based in Dearborn, had just 4 percent of the U.S.
hybrid and electric-vehicle market in the year’s first half,
compared with 72 percent for Toyota, said Mike Omotoso, a Troy,
Michigan-based researcher for LMC. Ford’s share of the hybrid
market fell from 11 percent in the first half of last year
because the automaker is discontinuing the slow-selling Escape
hybrid, Omotoso said.  The automaker hasn’t sold more electrified vehicles because
“we are dependent on the price of gas,” Bakaj said. “But when
you look over the long term, it’s still our feeling gas prices
will rise.” The national average price of unleaded gasoline was
$3.71 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA.  Ford research showed 60 percent of customers would buy a
hybrid or electric vehicle if there was no price penalty, Bakaj
said. When customers are asked if they would accept a higher
price if the premium is paid off in four years, 26 percent say
they’d still be interested in a hybrid or electric, he said.  ‘Significant Number’  “That’s still a very significant number,” Bakaj said.
“We know fundamentally there are customers who want to buy
these products.”  Ford was the first U.S. automaker to sell a hybrid when it
debuted a gasoline and electric powered version of the Escape
sport-utility vehicle in 2004. Sales of its Fusion hybrid sedan
are down 22 percent this year, to 6,097, according to researcher
Autodata Corp.  Ford began selling an electric version of its Focus compact
car in May for $39,200. Later this year, Ford will introduce
hybrid and plug-in hybrid versions of the C-Max wagon, a model
coming from  Europe . A new version of the Fusion hybrid, which
gets 47 miles (76 kilometers) per gallon in city driving, is
also coming this year. Production of a plug-in Fusion sedan
starts at year-end.  Mulally’s Plan  Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  has made fuel-
efficiency central to his turnaround plan for Ford. He said in
April that Ford wouldn’t back off its ambitious sales goals for
electric-powered vehicles just because they get off to a slow
start.  “We believe that the electrification of vehicles is going
to continue as the battery cost comes down, as we move to
generate electricity cleanly,” Mulally told reporters in Laguna
Niguel,  California , that month. “We see this as continually
growing. This is a long-term journey.”  Ford gained 0.5 percent to $9.49 at the close in  New York 
and fell to $9.48 at 8:04 p.m. New York time after the end of
regular trading. The shares have slid 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Dearborn,  Michigan , at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  