-- Gagfah FFO Increases on Asset Sales, Lower Interest Costs
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2012-08-16T15:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/gagfah-ffo-rises-as-company-sells-assets-cuts-vacancies.html
Gagfah SA (GFJ) ,  Germany ’s second-largest
property company by market value, said second-quarter funds from
operations rose 37 percent as the company sold assets and
reduced its interest expenses.  FFO, a measure of a property company’s ability to generate
cash, rose to 42.9 million euros ($53 million), or 21 cents a
share, from 31.4 million euros, or 14 cents, a year earlier, the
Luxembourg-based company said in a statement yesterday.  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG) , the New York-based private-equity firm and
hedge fund manager, owns  61 percent  of the company.  Gagfah, which is selling homes to reduce the amount of
properties it must finance, is seeking bids for its 38,000
apartments in Dresden, spokesman Rene Hoffmann said on Aug. 13.
Gagfah is among the private-equity firms facing debt deadlines
after buying German properties with cheap credit in the years
before the global financial crisis started in 2008. The company
must repay 3.1 billion euros of debt next year.  “Resolving Gagfah’s 2013 loan maturities will remain our
principal focus for the remainder of the year,” Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Charlton said in the statement.  Gagfah was up 44 cents, or 5.2 percent, at 8.89 euros at
the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt , the highest since Feb. 17,
2011. The shares have more than doubled this year, the  best
performance  among stocks in the German DAX Mid-Cap Index for
medium-sized companies, which has gained 25 percent. The company
has a market value of 1.97 billion euros.  Sales Proceeds  Gagfah’s net income from the disposal of investment real
estate and assets held for sale rose to 5.1 million euros in the
second quarter from 3.6 million euros a year earlier, according
to the statement. Interest expenses related to loans fell to
54.4 million euros from 60.1 million euros because the company
had a smaller portfolio.  The company announced the results after the close of
trading yesterday.  Gagfah expects to begin negotiating the sale of the Dresden
Woba portfolio in the fourth quarter and aims to close the deal
by the end of the year, Charlton said on a conference call
today. The company may sell 3,000 homes in the western German
city of Osnabrueck to an institutional buyer and plans to divest
an additional 4,000 apartments to private individuals this year,
he said.  On August 13, the company said it plans to sell the Dresden
portfolio for at least its book value of about 1.8 billion
euros. The condominium sales to private individuals will
generate about 250 million euros in revenue this year, Charlton
said.  “Investors and lenders both continue to value investments
that provide stable cash flows throughout the economic cycle,
creating an environment within the German residential real
estate market that is conducive to our asset and portfolio sales
efforts,” Charlton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 