-- German Stocks Decline From a Four-Month High
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-08-15T15:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/german-stocks-retreat-allianz-munich-re-lead-declines.html
German stocks  declined from a four-
month high as  Munich Re  retreated, outweighing industrial
production in the U.S. that increased in July.  Munich Re fell 1 percent following a report that its
private-health insurance unit will close corporate group
contracts to new business.  Salzgitter AG (SZG)  slid 4 percent as a
gauge of commodity companies posted the biggest drop of the 19
industry groups on the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   TUI AG (TUI1)  climbed
5.4 percent after Deutsche Bank AG increased its forecast for
the share price.  The DAX dropped 0.4 percent to 6,946.8 at the close in
Frankfurt, paring an earlier decline of as much as 0.9 percent.
The equity benchmark yesterday rose to its highest level since
April 3. It has  rallied 16 percent from this year’s low on June
5  as central banks around the world took steps to bolster
economic growth. The broader HDAX Index also retreated 0.4
percent today.  “General nervousness is creeping into the market,” said
Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst at IG Index in  London . “The
worry now among investors is can we wait until September before
more central-bank intervention? If U.S. data gets better, good
news now is bad news because it makes more quantitative easing
less likely.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 46 percent lower than the average of the past 30
days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  A Federal Reserve report today showed that industrial
production in the U.S. climbed 0.6 percent in July, following a
revised 0.1 percent gain in June that was smaller than
previously reported. Economists had forecast a 0.5 percent
increase, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Munich Re  Munich Re retreated 1 percent to 119.35 euros. The
reinsurer’s private health insurer, DKV, will reorganize its
corporate business, closing unprofitable group contracts,
according to a Financial Times Deutschland report today, which
didn’t say where it got the information. DKV will close all
corporate group contracts for new business and has begun talks
with its customers about new terms, according to the German
newspaper.  Salzgitter,  Germany ’s second-biggest steelmaker, declined 4
percent to 30.26 euros.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , the country’s largest
steelmaker, retreated 2.3 percent to 15.77 euros.  “Things are very fragile at the moment,” said Markus Huber, head of German sales trading at ETX Capital in London.
“Even with just a 1 percent decline in growth in  China , German
companies might be even more impacted. Lower growth raises
concerns that there is much more weakening to come. German
carmakers are increasingly connected to China.”  TUI, the majority shareholder in Tui Travel Plc, advanced
5.4 percent to 5.95 euros as Deutsche Bank increased its
forecast for  the company’s share price  to 7.30 euros from 6.60
euros. The brokerage cited increased numbers of visitors to
 Spain  in a note dated today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  