-- Melky Cabrera’s Ban Will Cost Him Tens of Millions, Dolich Says
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/giants-melky-cabrera-suspended-50-games-for-testosterone-use.html
Melky Cabrera’s suspension for
performance-enhancing drug use will probably cost him “tens of
millions” of dollars in lost contract and endorsement wages,
former Oakland Athletics executive Andy Dolich said.  San Francisco Giants  outfielder Cabrera, a free agent after
the season, yesterday was suspended 50 games by  Major League
Baseball  after testing positive for testosterone.  Cabrera, whose .346 batting average was second-best in the
major leagues, is being paid $6 million this season. Because of
the suspension it’s unlikely teams will offer the 28-year-old
more than a one-year contract.  “He’s taking a major hit in terms of what his long-term
earning power is going to be,” said Dolich, who spent 1980-94
as president of business operations for the A’s.  Cabrera in a statement provided by the  Major League
Baseball Players Association  acknowledged that he’d used a
banned substance.  “I am deeply sorry for my mistake and I apologize to my
teammates, to the San Francisco Giants’ organization and to the
fans for letting them down,” he said.  Cabrera’s agents, Seth and Sam Levinson, didn’t immediately
return a message left at their  Brooklyn ,  New York  office.  Multiyear contract offers won’t be the only financial hit
for Cabrera, who, including this season’s statistics, is a .284
career hitter. Cabrera, the All-Star game Most Valuable Player
affectionately referred to as the “Melk Man,” can surrender
any chance of aligning himself with a company seeking an
athletic endorser, Dolich said.  “All it takes is one national campaign for a player to add
several million more into a yearly take,” Dolich said.  Giants Record  After last night’s 6-4 loss to the  Washington Nationals ,
the Giants are 64-54, one game behind the  Los Angeles Dodgers ,
who lead the National League West Division.  The Giants have 44 regular-season games remaining, meaning
Cabrera’s suspension would stretch into the postseason if the
club qualifies.  After learning of the suspension, the team in a statement
said it was “extremely disappointed.”  Cabrera’s batting average is second to Pittsburgh’s Andrew McCutchen, who is hitting .358. He can still win the batting
title.  Cabrera, who joined the major leagues in 2005, played his
first five seasons with the  New York Yankees . He’s also had one-
year stints with the Atlanta Braves and Kansas City Royals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  