-- Global Logistic Seeks China Growth From Amazon: Southeast Asia
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-08-16T01:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/global-logistic-seeks-china-growth-from-amazon-southeast-asia.html
Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP) , a
unit of Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund, said its China assets
will match those in  Japan  as tenants, including online retailers
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and 360buy.com, add more space.  The company invested $1 billion in China last year and
expects to expand from that base as it attracts tenants with
modern warehouses in the world’s fastest-growing major economy,
Chief Executive Officer Ming Z. Mei said. The net asset value in
China will match that in Japan in six to 12 months, he said.  “We are in the very early stage of the industry so it’s
going to be a long time before we can satisfy the needs of our
customers,” Mei said in an interview in  Singapore  yesterday.
“Eighty percent of China’s logistic facilities are old and
obsolete so it will be a long time before we can refill all
those spaces. We can grow on that $1 billion base.”  The growth in its China  assets  will boost contribution from
a market where earnings jumped fivefold in its fiscal first
quarter, supplementing a more stable income stream from Japan,
Mei said. The company is also seeking more efficiency in China,
where logistics costs are equivalent to 18 percent of the gross
domestic product, twice the level in the U.S., Mei said.  China has 550 million square meters (5.9 billion square
feet) of warehouse space, compared with 1.2 billion square
meters in the U.S., Mei said.  Three to four of its top 10 clients are from the e-commerce
industry, Mei said. These Internet companies represent 16
percent of the leased area in China and 11 percent in Japan, the
Singapore-based company said in a presentation this week.  Adidas, Coke  Customers also include consumer goods makers Adidas AG, and
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , as well as logistics companies such as Deutsche
Post AG’s DHL and  Nippon Express Co. (9062) , according to its  website .  The expansion drew investors including China Investment
Corp., the nation’s sovereign wealth fund. The two agreed in
December to buy 15 Japanese warehouses for 122.6 billion yen
($1.6 billion) as demand for storage rebounded after the March
2011 earthquake. The Singapore company formed a joint venture
with the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board last year to
invest $250 million each over three years in Japan.  Global Logistic  reported  a 57 percent increase in profit to
$153 million in its fiscal first quarter ended June, it said on
Aug. 14. Earnings from  China  jumped to $56.6 million, it said.  “There is a lot of potential for a big player like GLP,
which is by far the largest player in China, to take advantage
of redeveloping old facilities,” said Donald Chua, a Singapore-
based analyst at CIMB-GK Pte, who rates the stock the equivalent
of a hold after a rally. “These will also form a source of
acquisition targets. A lot of the local companies are builders
but not operators, and GLP has that edge of building and
operating.”  Stock Rally  Global Logistic increased 0.8 percent to S$2.41 as of 9:31
a.m. in Singapore trading, set for a record. The gain added to
the 37 percent advance this year, compared with the 21 percent
gain in the  Bloomberg Asia Pacific Real Estate Index. (BPRREAL)   The company’s total assets rose 13 percent to $14 billion
as of June 30, it said this week. The expansion into China
included the purchase of a 53.1 percent stake in Airport City
Development Co., which runs logistics facilities within the
Beijing Capital International Airport.  Global Logistic is seeking more space amid concerns about
the economic outlook of its two key markets. Japan said this
week its gross domestic product rose an annualized 1.4 percent
in the three months through June, slower than the median 2.3
percent forecast of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. An
aging population and two decades of low growth have also left
the nation with a debt pile projected to exceed 1 quadrillion
yen ($12.7 trillion) next year, the biggest in the world.  Circumvent Slowdown  China’s manufacturing teetered on the edge of contraction
in July, adding to signs of a deepening global slowdown as
 Europe ’s debt crisis curbs demand for the region’s goods. Chua
at CIMB said Global Logistic was able to “circumvent” the
slowdown in the last quarter.  The company has  operations  in 29 cities in China with a net
asset value of $3.65 billion as of June 30, according to its
presentation this week. In Japan, it’s in seven key locations
with a combined net asset value of $3.93 billion.  “New demand is from new economic growth in China,” Mei
said. Japan’s “steady, strong cash flow will fuel the growth in
China as we want to rebalance the portfolios. We tend to grow
faster in China,” he said.  Global Logistic raised S$3.5 billion ($2.8 billion) in
October 2010 in what was Singapore’s biggest IPO since 1993. It
is a unit of the Government of Singapore Investment Corp., which
manages more than $100 billion of the nation’s reserves.  Mei expects a longer time frame before total assets in both
countries reach “equilibrium.” Global Logistic has $8.3
billion of assets in Japan and $5.7 billion in China, he said.  “It’s not sexy, it’s not glamorous, but it’s what everyone
uses every day that goes through our warehouses,” Mei said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  