-- Goldman Said to Cut as Many as 30 Sales, Trading Jobs
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-08-15T14:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/goldman-sachs-said-to-cut-more-than-20-in-sales-trading.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the Wall
Street bank that generated 58 percent of first-half revenue from
sales and trading, eliminated 20 to 30 jobs in that division
this week, according to a person briefed on the matter.  The cuts affected salespeople and traders in the U.S., with
most taking place in  New York , said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the reductions aren’t being announced
publicly. The decision is part of a continuous review of
staffing levels amid difficult markets, the person said.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, said
last month that it plans to eliminate $500 million from annual
expenses, mostly from compensation, after reporting its lowest
first-half revenue since 2005. The cuts are on top of a $1.4
billion expense-reduction program that was completed earlier
this year. Goldman Sachs employed 32,300 people at the end of
June, according to a company press release.  “We’re controlling the levers that we can, which are
expenses and capital,” Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar,
57, said on a July 17 conference call with analysts. “We
obviously don’t want to go too far on either one because we
think that the world will get better.”  In June, Goldman Sachs eliminated several dozen
administrative jobs in the U.S. and also cut fewer than 50 jobs
that included some managing directors, the second-highest
position at the firm after partners, a person familiar with the
matter said at the time.  Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman at Goldman Sachs in New York,
declined to comment on the job reductions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  