-- Goldman Sachs Sees Lower Odds of September QE3 on Data
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-08-15T13:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/goldman-sachs-sees-lower-odds-of-september-qe3-on-data.html
Stronger U.S. economic data have
reduced the probability that the  Federal Reserve  will announce a
third round of so-called quantitative easing when policy makers
gather next month,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said.  “We do not expect a move to QE3” at the Sept. 12-13
Federal Open Market Committee meeting,  Jan Hatzius , chief
economist at Goldman Sachs in  New York , wrote yesterday in a
note to clients, citing retail sales that rose more than
forecast in July. Economic growth probably accelerated, he said.  “While QE3 at the September 12-13 FOMC meeting remains
possible, our best estimate is that it will take until late
2012/early 2013 before Fed officials return to balance sheet
expansion,” Hatzius wrote. “The U.S. economic recovery remains
sluggish, but we believe that it will pick up a bit in coming
months.”  Additional asset purchases by the central bank are less
likely next month as strengthening  retail sales  and slowing
inventory accumulation by businesses signal that “U.S. economic
data continue to look a bit stronger,” Hatzius wrote. Economic
growth in the third quarter probably accelerated to 2.3 percent
from an earlier tracking estimate of 2.2 percent, the economist
said, citing Goldman Sachs estimates.  “Although Fed officials clearly adopted a strong easing
bias at the July 31-Aug. 1 FOMC meeting, we do not think that
this amounts to a pre-commitment to QE3,” Hatzius wrote.
“Instead, we believe that continued weakness is necessary to
prompt a substantial easing move. And so far, that weakness is
not showing up in the data.”  Retail, Inventories  Retail sales increased 0.8 percent in July, the biggest
gain since February and first gain in four months, the Commerce
Department said Aug. 14. A separate report the same day showed
that inventories at U.S. companies rose in June at the slowest
pace in nine months.  “There is a very solid case for additional accommodation
under the Fed’s dual mandate of maximum employment and 2 percent
inflation,” Hatzius wrote in the report published yesterday
after U.S. markets closed. “We do believe that Fed officials
will ultimately decide to ease policy further.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  