-- Gold Runs Out in Lisbon as Price Drop Compounds Money Misery
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-16T16:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/gold-runs-out-in-lisbon-as-falling-prices-compound-money-misery.html
Paulo Oliveira and his wife sold
their wedding rings to pay the rent after he lost his job as a
builder last month. They were the couple’s last pieces of
jewelry.  “We have no more gold to save us from being kicked out
this month,” the 46-year-old said as he stood in the area of
downtown Lisbon popular with cash-for-gold stores. “Everyone I
know is struggling, even the gold stores are empty because
nobody has any more gold left to sell.”  Oliveira encapsulates a growing trend in debt crisis-
stricken  Europe  as household gold supplies dry up after record
prices and a deepening recession prompted a proliferation of
places to exchange the metal for money.  In  Portugal , the historical home of some of Europe’s
biggest  gold reserves , the number of jewelry stores, which
include cash-for-gold shops, increased 29 percent in 2011 from a
year earlier, a study commissioned by parliament found. In the
first quarter, an average of two new stores opened every day,
the report said. Now some of them are closing.  “Business has gone from great to terrible in a matter of
months,” Luis Almeida, whose family has owned a gold store near
Lisbon’s Rossio Square for more than 40 years, said in an
interview. “The sad truth is that most of my clients have
already sold all of their gold rings.”  Market Slump  Recycled gold supplies, which are derived in part from
melted jewelry, fell 7.7 percent to 363.7 tons in the three
months through June from the previous quarter, according to the
World Gold Council. Global demand for gold dropped 7.1 percent
in the second quarter to 990 metric tons from a year earlier,
the London-based industry group said today in a report.  Gold for immediate delivery jumped 10 percent in  London  in
2011, reaching a record of $1,921.15 an ounce on Sept. 6. Since
then, the price has fallen 16 percent and traded at $1,616.04 at
5:06 p.m. in London.  The market swing coincided with Portugal raising taxes and
cutting spending to meet terms of the 78 billion-euro ($96.2
billion) 2011 bailout package from the  International Monetary
Fund  and its European partners. Portugal was the third country
to seek aid, following Greece and Ireland in 2010.  “That’s when I started selling all the gold I had,” said
Oliveira, who made 800 euros a month working as a bricklayer for
construction companies such as  Mota-Engil SGPS SA (EGL)  and Soares da
Costa SGPS SA before being laid off in July.  Gold Exports  Portugal’s gold exports increased by more than five times
to 519.4 million euros last year from 102.1 million euros in
2009, according to data published on the Lisbon-based National
Statistics Institute’s  website .  Oliveira said he now makes as little as 15 euros a day
polishing shoes on a wooden stool in Lisbon’s central Barros
Queiroz street, where gold traders complain competition is
eating profit.  “It’s like seven dogs for one bone,” said Alcina
Bernardo, who owns a gold shop 500 meters away in the Rua do
Ouro street, once a center for goldsmiths working with metal
brought back from  Brazil  in the 18th and 19th centuries.  As a country, Portugal traditionally has guarded that gold.
The central bank holds more gold relative to the size of the
country’s economy than any euro country, mostly accumulated
during former dictator Antonio de Oliveira Salazar’s 36 years in
power, based on data compiled by the World Gold Council.  The law prevents proceeds from selling any gold reserves
from going toward the government’s budget.  Already Melted  While central banks bought 157.5 tons in the second
quarter, compared with 66.2 tons a year earlier, jewelry use
slipped 14 percent to 418.3 tons, the council said. Jewelry
demand from  India , 2011’s biggest buyer, plunged 30 percent to
124.8 tons, accounting for 30 percent of the global total.  “The loose scrap in the market has already been melted,”
said  Nikos Kavalis , an analyst at the  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  in London who forecasts  gold prices  will fall to
$1,250 an ounce by 2015.“People are also less willing to sell
their jewelry amid lower gold prices.”  With the Portuguese unemployment rate at a euro-era record
of 15 percent in the second quarter, Oliveira is now wondering
who will help bail him out now that his job and gold are gone.  The government forecasts unemployment will increase to 15.5
percent for all of 2012 and to 15.9 percent next year. An
average of 86 people a day sought help for indebtedness during
the first half of the year, the  Portuguese Association for
Consumer Protection  said in a report published in July.  “It’s okay for the gold shops around me to go broke,
they’ve already made their profit,” Oliveira said. “What I
would like to know is who will help me and my wife when we get
evicted?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  