-- Samsung E-Mails Show Google Asked Devices Not Mimic Apple
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-16T10:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/google-asked-samsung-to-make-design-less-like-apple-lawyer-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  asked  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  to change the design of its phones and tablets
to look less like Apple Inc.’s devices, according to e-mails
shown to a jury at a trial between Apple and Samsung.  Harold McElhinny, a lawyer representing Apple, yesterday
displayed a Feb. 16, 2010, internal Samsung e-mail describing
minutes from a design meeting that was sent to “pass along only
a few comments from Senior Designer Cho who went into the Google
meeting yesterday,” according to the message.  “Since it is too similar to Apple, make it noticeably
different starting with the front side,” the message says,
referring to one of Samsung’s tablets.  The e-mails were introduced as evidence in the third week
of the multibillion-dollar  intellectual-property trial  in
federal court in  San Jose ,  California . Samsung has used Google’s
Android free operating system to build phones that propelled it
to the number one spot in the phone market.  Apple sued Samsung in April 2011, accusing it of copying
patented designs for mobile devices, and Samsung countersued.
The case is the first to go before a federal jury in a battle
being waged on four continents for dominance in a smartphone
market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1 billion.  Internal E-Mail  During a cross-examination yesterday, McElhinny asked
Samsung designer Kim Jin Soo if he recalled two e-mail exchanges
in 2010 at Samsung about Google’s request.  Kim, speaking through an interpreter, denied he was aware
of it.  “Whether that is a fact or not, I cannot confirm that for
you, and whether such statement was made, if it was the official
position of Google, or by someone made” at a different level of
the company, “I don’t know such things,” Kim said.  A second e-mail, dated Feb. 22, 2010, was sent to more than
30 Samsung  employees .  “I am notifying you of the team leader’s directives from
the executives’ meeting yesterday,” the message begins. The
sixth item on the list addresses a need to “respond to the
issue of design similarity for the S series,” which Kim
testified was a reference to Samsung’s S series of smartphones,
some of which are at issue in the case.  ‘Distinguishable Design’  “Google is demanding distinguishable design vis-à-vis the
 iPad ,” the e-mail said. “Consider design distinguishability
for the items demanded by Google while maintaining the current
design, and in regards to each carrier’s demands.”  Kim testified that he doesn’t recall any such directives
from his superiors. Looking at the e-mails at trial, he said he
saw the documents for the first time yesterday in preparation
for his testimony.  Jim Prosser, a spokesman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, didn’t immediately respond to a voice-mail seeking
comment on the testimony.  Apple is claiming at least $2.5 billion in damages for
patent and trade-dress infringement. Cupertino, California-based
Apple also wants to make permanent a preliminary ban it won on
U.S. sales of a Samsung tablet, and extend the ban to Samsung
smartphones.  Samsung, based in Suwon,  South Korea , is trying to persuade
the jury to declare Apple’s  patents  invalid and to find that
Apple has infringed its patents.  Paid Witness  The company yesterday called a paid witness, Tim Williams,
a retired entrepreneur and electrical engineer, who testified
that versions of Apple’s iPhone and iPad infringe two Samsung
patents covering mobile-technology standards.  After using Williams’s testimony to advance its
counterclaims against Apple, Samsung called another witness to
bolster its defense to Apple’s infringement claims.  Andries Van Dam, a Brown University computer science
professor who said he charges $1,000 an hour for his expertise,
testified that Apple “was not the first to invent the snap-
back” of graphic images. Samsung elicited the testimony in an
attempt to invalidate a patent Apple claims covers
“rubberbanding,” or the way an iPad or iPhone screen seems to
bounce when a user scrolls to the end of a file.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh, who is presiding over the
case, yesterday said both sides face risks in a jury verdict,
and urged the chief executive officers at both companies to talk
again before jurors begin deliberating. Koh said she wants
deliberations to begin by Aug. 21.  Face to Face  Koh earlier this year ordered Apple CEO  Tim Cook  to meet
face to face with his counterpart at Samsung, Choi Gee Sung, who
has since been replaced as CEO by Kwon Oh Hyun. The May
conference didn’t yield a settlement.  “It’s at least worth one more try,” Koh said yesterday.  Apple shipments of iPads surged 44 percent to 17 million in
the second quarter, giving the company its biggest share of the
tablet market in more than a year as devices from competitors
lost ground. Apple’s market share climbed to 69.6 percent in the
quarter from 58.1 percent in the previous three-month period,
according to an Aug. 14 report from IHS.  Samsung had a 9.2 percent share in the second quarter, down
from 10.8 percent. The company will begin selling the pen-
equipped Galaxy Note 10.1 tablet in the U.S. today. Samsung
shares have climbed 27 percent this year, trailing a 56 percent
gain in Apple’s stock.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  