-- Icahn Wins One Seat on Forest Laboratories’ Board
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-08-15T22:03:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/icahn-wins-one-seat-on-forest-laboratories-10-member-board.html
Billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  won
one board seat at  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  as shareholders
supported his claims that the drugmaker needs more oversight.  Pierre Legault was elected to Forest’s 10-member board,
according to a preliminary tally of shareholder votes released
at the company’s annual meeting today in  New York . Legault is
chief executive officer of Stone Management LLC and former
finance chief of OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc.  Icahn, the second-largest shareholder, had nominated four
directors to New York-based Forest’s board in his second proxy
fight in as many years. The 76-year-old investor has said Forest
didn’t adequately prepare for the loss of patent protection on
its top-selling drug, the antidepressant Lexapro, and questioned
the potential for the son of CEO Howard Solomon to succeed him.  Solomon called Icahn today to congratulate him on the
results, the investor said.  “It was a nice gesture on his part,” Icahn said in a
telephone interview today. “We both agreed it’s better to have
peace than war, and we’ll both try to work together if we can.”  Forest declined less than 1 percent to $33.88 at 4 p.m. New
York time.  Goldwasser Replacement  Legault replaces Dan Goldwasser, who had served on the
board since 1977.  “It’s a great victory for corporate governance,” said Dan Ninivaggi of  Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP) , one of the three Icahn
nominees who weren’t elected. “The company spent millions of
dollars to oppose our slate, they fought us in court. Yet we
still won.”  Icahn failed to get any of his four nominees on the board
last year. Eric Ende and Andrew Fromkin were the other Icahn
nominees this year.  “The board is ready to welcome Pierre Legault with open
arms,” Frank Perier, Forest’s chief financial officer, told
reporters after the meeting. “We welcome his contributions.”  Icahn has said Forest would make an “excellent”
acquisition for a larger drugmaker. Perier declined to comment
on that assertion.  “Our board has always and will always consider potential
transactions presented to them from a maximizing  shareholder
value  standpoint,” Perier said.  Won Support  Icahn won the support of Institutional Shareholder Services
Inc., a proxy adviser, for Ninivaggi and Legault earlier this
month. Glass Lewis & Co., another adviser, backed all of
Forest’s 10 directors, while Egan-Jones Proxy Services, a third,
recommended all four of Icahn’s nominees.  The two sides have traded blows since Icahn announced his
intention to nominate directors in May. The investor criticized
the loss of shareholder value as Forest’s stock declined from a
high in 2004 of $77.59 to close at $33.98 yesterday, and said he
planned to investigate stock sales made by CEO Solomon.  Forest countered that Icahn has ignored the progress the
company has made in the last year, such as bringing drugs to the
market and filing for approval of others.  “The election of only one of Mr. Icahn’s four nominees
reflects our shareholders’ continued confidence in Forest’s
strategy, corporate governance practices and the strength of our
pipeline and portfolio of products,” Kenneth Goodman, Forest’s
presiding independent director, said in a statement today.  Icahn said he would like to see Forest add more outside
board members.  “We tried to get four guys on, so we do think there should
be additional outside board members to make for better corporate
governance,” Icahn said by telephone today.  Icahn Investments  Icahn has a track record of investing in drugmakers and
profiting from their turnarounds or sales to larger companies.
He invested in ImClone Systems Inc., which was sold to  Eli Lilly
& Co. (LLY)  in 2008 for $6.5 billion; Genzyme Corp., sold to Sanofi
for $20.1 billion last year; Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc., which
agreed to be bought by  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  for $5.3 billion
on June 29; and  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) , whose stock has more than
doubled in the last two years.  Icahn’s head of biotechnology investing,  Alex Denner , left
the firm last year to start his own hedge fund. He and Richard Mulligan, a genetics professor at  Harvard Medical School , worked
with Icahn on many of his investments in drugmakers.  Asked whether he would support the addition of Denner or
Mulligan to Forest’s board, Icahn said he would.  “I’d love to see Denner and Mulligan get on the board even
as additions,” Icahn said. “They did a great job at Biogen and
I’ve seen them work, and they did a great job at ImClone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  