-- If Only Conservatives Were More Like Libertarians
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-08-15T22:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/if-only-conservatives-were-more-like-libertarians.html
Have you ever wondered why
conservatives are so opposed to government interference in the
marketplace yet so tolerant, even welcoming, of its role in our
personal lives? You could say the same about liberals, whose
preferences for government involvement run in the opposite
direction.  Either way, it strikes me as inconsistent. If you believe
in the principle of live-and-let-live, it should apply to all
aspects of your life. When the Wall Street Journal’s
conservative editorial page invokes “free markets, free
people,” I always wonder, what happened to the free-people
part?  The idea that government knows best is anathema to fiscal
conservatives, who believe in a limited government of enumerated
powers. How is it that same government can be the ultimate
authority on how we live our lives, whom we can marry, how we
raise our children, where we worship, what we inhale and ingest,
and what we do behind closed doors?  I ask David Boaz, executive vice president of the
libertarian  Cato Institute  in  Washington , to crawl inside a
conservative’s head and explain it to me.  “Sometimes libertarians assume that the questions we ask
are the same questions other people ask,” he says. For example,
“a libertarian might ask: What is the role of government? What
are the rights of individuals? A conservative, on the other
hand, might ask: What is good for an orderly society? Different
questions yield different answers.”  Rousseau’s Romanticism  Armed with the necessary fodder, I ask a conservative the
same question and get pretty much the same answer: It’s all
about how you frame the question.  “You have to approach it through a prism of liberty and
what are the conditions for securing and preserving liberty for
everyone,” says David Azerrad, associate director of the Center
for Principles and Politics at the  Heritage Foundation , a
conservative think tank in Washington. “We’re not ’legislating
morality,’ as libertarians claim, but creating the conditions
that allow for liberty.”  Uh-huh. I understand the words, but I’m having trouble
getting my arms around the concept. I try a specific example.  What about a gay couple I know who adopted two, mixed-race,
crack-cocaine babies? Aren’t these children better off growing
up with two loving, caring parents than as products of the
foster-care system? So what if both parents are “daddy”?  To me, it’s a rhetorical question. To conservatives,
judging by their opposition to gay marriage and gay adoption, it
clearly isn’t.  Azerrad tells me I’m assuming “a very Rousseauian approach
to politics” by taking individual examples and appealing to the
heart. (I knew cutting social philosophy in college would catch
up with me someday.)  Given conservatism’s inherent suspicion about the state,
“when it recognizes a role for the state, clearly there’s
something important at stake,” he says. And that means
“supporting certain institutions and actively promoting them.”  Take marriage, for example. The only reason the state has
an interest in it is because children are involved, and research
has shown the nuclear family is best for raising kids, Azerrad
says. (I wonder if there’s an exemption for childless couples.)  It would be one thing if Homo sapiens could no longer
reproduce; if the present generation were the last one on Earth.
“Then we could all be libertarians,” he says.  Because they can, and do, reproduce, the state has an
interest in those children being raised in “optimal
conditions,” Azerrad says. “The overarching principles are:
How do you structure a community and what institutional setups
are conducive to preserving it.”  Big Job  That sounds like a big assignment for an entity that can’t
make the trains run on time -- and  loses money  when they do.
What gives the government the moral authority to tell us how
best to live our lives? It almost sounds presumptuous. All that
laissez-faire stuff about a voluntary exchange between
individuals as the basis for a market economy collapses when
applied to choices in our personal lives?  Typically, conservatives line up in support of family
values (what if the family is dysfunctional?), a strong military
and national defense, the right to bear arms, the death penalty
and school prayer. They oppose embryonic stem-cell research,
abortion, divorce, gay marriage, gay adoption and euthanasia.
It’s the conservative version of a cradle-to-grave model, all
spelled out in great detail.  Just contrast conservatives’ list of do’s and don’ts with
that of libertarians, who just want to be left alone.  “Conservatives understand that letting people do their own
thing builds a strong economy,” Cato’s Boaz says. “Why can’t a
strong society be built from a few rules you learned in
kindergarten? Don’t hit other people, don’t take their stuff and
keep your promises.”  If it were that simple, we could scrap the  82,419-page 
 Federal Register , the government’s book of rules and
regulations. Neither conservatives nor libertarians -- nor
liberals, for that matter -- would have a problem with that.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  messy Medicare debate  and
on rejuvenating  India ’s economic miracle;  Jonathan Alter  on  Paul
Ryan ’s gift to Democrats;  Ezra Klein  on how Ryan could be
 Democrats’ worst nightmare ; Jonathan Mahler on the U.S.
popularity of  European soccer ; Adam Kirsch on the  politics of
personal destruction  in “Advise and Consent”; Russell G. Ryan on
giving the Securities and Exchange Commission  too much power .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  