-- Hilaria Yoga, Mnuchin; Fischl on Tennis, Caro: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-08-15T15:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/hilaria-yoga-mnuchin-fischl-on-tennis-caro-scene.html
The yoga mat is gaining traction as
a fundraising tool in the Hamptons.  A private yoga session with Hilaria Baldwin went for
$10,000 at Guild Hall’s benefit on Aug. 10, auctioned by her
husband, Alec, to hedge-fund-manager-turned-entrepreneur Nick
Lobaccaro. (The package also included a night with  Alec Baldwin 
in his box at Guild Hall’s theater.)  On Aug. 24, Hilaria Baldwin will lead a class to benefit
the Child Mind Institute Inc., organized by the Southampton-
based studio  Yoga Gives . Tickets are $250, which goes to the
institute to improve mental-health care for children. Baldwin is
once again donating her services.  Yoga Gives has organized several similar events alongside
its for-profit offerings. Kelly Morris, a popular instructor in
 New York , led one to benefit  the Retreat , an East Hampton
shelter for victims of domestic violence. Heather Mnuchin, whose
husband, Steven T. Mnuchin, runs OneWest Bank Group LLC, went to
the mat for the  Sag Harbor Food Pantry .  Mnuchin has also taken classes, along with Julia Koch, wife
of David H. Koch of Koch Industries Inc., and Christine Mack,
wife of  Richard Mack , North American chief executive officer of
Apollo Real Estate Advisors.  “To me it’s a natural pairing,” said Amanda Taylor,
founder of Yoga Gives. “The idea of yoga is to be of service,
to be present to other people, to be aware, awake and alive.”  Taylor got the idea after hearing about the one-hour
SoulCycle spin class that raised more than $35,000 for  Baby
Buggy .  “If they can do that with bikes, I thought, I can do that
with yoga mats,” she said.  Gala Alternative  Taylor sees the classes as a welcome alternative to the
evening gala. They’re certainly cheaper: Yoga Gives has been
charging $50 a class or less.  “A woman can say, ‘I don’t have to buy a dress, book a
baby sitter, drag my husband -- this is just a part of my
day,’” Taylor said.  Like last season, the studio is open for six weeks through
Labor Day. Next year Taylor hopes to open for the whole summer.  Eric Fischl  The galleries at the cultural center Guild Hall in  East
Hampton  are currently filled with paintings of beach scenes by
Eric Fischl, who lives year-round in Sag Harbor.  The artist himself is no beach bum.  “I’ve only been to the beach twice this summer,” said
Fischl at the opening of the exhibition on Aug. 11. “I tend to
play tennis and work.”  These pursuits have a lot in common, according to Fischl.
“Tennis and painting are very similar to each other,” he said.
“They both take place inside a rectangle and use an extended
reach. It’s all about intention and execution. It’s all about
gesture and force of gesture.”  Robert Caro  With so many of his thick books stacked in front of him,
 Robert Caro  almost had to stand up to see the fans greeting him
at the East Hampton Library’s trade-show-cum-literary-cocktail-
party.  Caro was one of more than 120 authors who participated in
the library’s eighth annual Authors Night, which raised more
than $200,000.  The affair was a significant upgrade, with a larger tent
(the same used by Guild Hall for its benefit the night before)
and much better food from local purveyors including Lucy’s Whey.  Dick Cavett, Robert K. Massie, author of a biography of
Catherine the Great,  Kati Marton  and Patty Farmer, author of
“The Persian Room Presents: An Oral History of New York’s Most
Magical Night Spot,” were among the signers.  ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at 
 agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  