-- In Soccer, America’s Team Is European
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M a h l e r
-- 2012-08-15T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/in-soccer-america-s-team-is-european.html
The Olympic torch is out. Baseball
is plodding along, one  painfully drawn-out at-bat  after the 
next. The U.S. Open tennis tournament is still 11 days away.
College and professional football are floating even further
in the distance.  But a lot of Americans are looking at this weekend’s sports
calendar and thinking red meat: Saturday is the start of the
 Barclays Premier League  season.  That’s football season, if you are reading this anywhere
outside of the U.S. In the U.S., we of course call it soccer, as
in the perennial question: Will soccer, the most popular sport
on the planet, ever take hold here?  The answer is, it already has. It’s just not the U.S.
version. Instead, we have fallen in love with  England ’s Premier
League. So maybe we are ready for a new question: Can American
soccer ever make it in America?  European soccer is no longer the sports equivalent of free
jazz, fetishized by a few who maybe had a relative in  London  or
spent a semester in Barcelona. So deeply has it penetrated
mainstream American sports culture that jaw-slackening goals
from the Premier League and  Spain ’s  La Liga  are now hogging
airtime on the closest thing we have to a barometer of our
national sports fixations: ESPN’s “SportsCenter.”  More Popular  Consider the soaring television ratings. A decisive late-
season match last spring between crosstown rivals  Manchester
United  and  Manchester City  -- broadcast live on ESPN on a Monday
afternoon -- produced the largest U.S. audience ever for a
Premier League match on cable TV, attracting 1.033 million
viewers. That’s almost twice as many as the previous record
holder, a 2010 match between Arsenal and Chelsea. Paltry numbers
when compared with the big-time spectator sports in the U.S.,
yes. (In 2011 the typical NFL game was watched by an  average of 
17.5 million people.) But what league wouldn’t kill for that
sort of growth rate?  Now consider some anecdotal evidence. For all of the
millions of kids playing youth soccer here every year, the U.S.
has not yet produced a megastar of global stature. What we have
produced is a lot of soccer parents. Specifically, soccer dads.  Those guys with “flexible” work schedules, the ones who
might have been toting around a diaper bag a decade ago? Now
they are on the sidelines of their kids’ games in  Sambas  and
 Gerrard jerseys , monitoring their BlackBerrys for updates on
their fantasy EPL teams. (Speaking of which:  Juan Mata  or Eden Hazard at midfield?)  They have presumably discovered the beauty of a game that,
at its essence, is incomprehensibly boring and deeply
intoxicating at the same time: Is anything ever going to happen?
I don’t know, but I obviously can’t leave the couch in case it
does.  They have also been masterfully seduced. In the summer of
2003, Manchester United made its first trip to the U.S. in more
than 50 years for a slew of “ friendlies ,” opening the floodgates
for what has since become an annual influx of international
clubs eager to raise their profile in the U.S. by packing soccer
fans into awkwardly reconfigured baseball parks.  While these summer tours may be a financial boon to the
clubs and a treat for U.S. soccer fans, they’re not doing much
good for professional soccer in the U.S. Strictly speaking, the
scores of European soccer clubs and  Major League Soccer  are not
competitors, but even the most rabid fans need to make time to
sleep and eat.  More Gimmicks  It is easy to see who is winning the competition for
America’s attention. Last fall, a taped Premier League game on
Fox drew almost twice as many viewers as Major League Soccer’s
 championship match , broadcast on ESPN that same weekend.
Liverpool and AC Roma had no trouble selling out their late July
match in  Boston , pretentiously billed as “Football at Fenway.”
Meanwhile, many MLS clubs have been reduced to promotional
gimmicks that would make most Class-A baseball teams cringe.
(The Colorado Rapids offers a “ Lads Night Out ” special: $44 gets
you two tickets, two beers, two hot dogs and, for some reason,
two scarves, which hardly seems something “the lads” would get
excited about.)  How can the MLS win back -- or win, period -- its hometown
fans? One way,  suggested by  none other than the L.A. Galaxy’s
 David Beckham , is for the MLS to lift its salary cap -- to try
to beat the EPL at its own game by outbidding them for the
world’s biggest soccer stars.  But why add another species of athletic prima donna to our
already bloated sports ecosystem? I favor a less costly option:
Let’s go with what we’ve got and build on it. I’m not saying the
U.S. should be satisfied with a second-tier league. I’m saying
it should celebrate what it has already accomplished as a young
soccer nation -- not only assembling a women’s team that rules
the sport, but also a men’s team that came out of nowhere to
qualify for the  World Cup  in 1990 and hasn’t missed one since.
I’m saying we should stop whining about the MLS’s “inferior
product,” about all of the talented U.S. players fleeing to
 Europe  for their paydays. I’m saying let’s cut it with the “Lads
Night Out” and the faux-European team names like Real Salt Lake
and FC  Dallas .  And to my fellow soccer dads: How about taking a pass on
this year’s  home Arsenal jersey , and spending that $84.99 on
your local MLS team instead? More money will flow into the
league, and before you know it, we will have created an
authentic, powerful U.S. soccer culture, something we are never
going to do relying on aging ex-Premier League stars and ersatz
Euro touches.  (Jonathan Mahler is a sports columnist for Bloomberg View.
A long-time contributor to the  New York  Times Magazine, he is
the author of the best-selling “Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx
Is Burning,” “The Challenge” and “Death Comes to Happy Valley.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  messy Medicare debate  and
on rejuvenating  India’s economic miracle ;  Jonathan Alter  on  Paul
Ryan’s gift  to Democrats;  Caroline Baum  on why conservatives
 don’t mind meddling  in private affairs;  Ezra Klein  on how Ryan
could be  Democrats’ worst nightmare ; Adam Kirsch on the  politics
of personal destruction  in “Advise and Consent”; Russell G. Ryan
on giving the Securities and Exchange Commission  too much power .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Mahler at  jmahler11@bloomberg.net  or @jonathanmahler on
Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  