-- Factory Output in U.S. Climbs as Prices Remain Tame: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-15T21:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/industrial-production-in-u-s-rises-0-6-on-autos-utilities.html
Manufacturers are turning out more
cars and computers, homebuilders are gaining confidence and
prices are little changed, showing the  U.S. economy  is expanding
with inflation contained.  Production at factories, mines and utilities increased 0.6
percent in July following a 0.1 percent gain the prior month,
Federal Reserve data showed today in  Washington . The cost of
living over the past 12 months rose at the slowest pace in
almost two years and sentiment among residential construction
companies climbed to a five-year high, according to other data.  The reports ease concern the debt crisis that has dragged
Europe to the brink of a recession and slowing demand in  Asia 
will bring an end to the U.S. recovery that began in June 2009.
At the same time, a lack of pricing power makes it possible for
Fed policy makers to take whatever additional steps are needed
to ensure the expansion is sustained.  “Manufacturing is still moving in the right direction,”
said  Michael Carey , chief economist for  North America  at Credit
Agricole CIB in  New York . “Domestic demand has been holding up,
and there are some areas that continue to do well, such as
autos,” said Carey, who accurately predicted the gain in
output. “Inflation is well under control and not something the
Fed is worried about.”  Most stocks rose as investors weighed what influence the
data will have on Fed policy makers when they meet next month.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.1 percent to
1,405.53 at the 4 p.m. close in New York.  Treasury securities 
fell, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 1.82
percent from 1.74 percent late yesterday.  U.K. Economy  Elsewhere today, U.K. jobless claims unexpectedly fell in
July and a wider measure of unemployment dropped to its lowest
in a year as the  Olympic Games  created jobs.  Australian  consumer confidence  fell by the most in five
months even as wages climbed, sending mixed signals on the
economy as its central bank weighs whether to hold  interest
rates  at a developed-world high.  The U.S. consumer-price index was unchanged in July, less
than the median forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
which called for an increase of 0.2 percent. The cost of living
climbed 1.4 percent over the past 12 months, the smallest year-
to-year increase since November 2010, the Labor Department
reported.  Core Index  The  core  index, which excludes volatile food and fuel
costs, rose 0.1 percent last month, also less than forecast.
Declining prices for a broad-range of goods and services,
including hotel rates, airline fares and new and used cars
helped offset rising costs for medical care and rents, the
report showed.  “The fact that the economy was so weak in the first half
of the year means there’s probably less pricing power,” said
 Omair Sharif , U.S. economist at RBS Securities Inc. in Stamford,
 Connecticut . “It’s going to be tough to push prices through to
the consumer who’s already very weak and shown an appetite for
discount shopping,” said Sharif, who correctly forecast the
increase in core prices.  Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS)  is among companies having mixed
success in boosting prices, getting customers to pay more for
some items and having to pull back on others.  “Some of them worked out fine and the customer accepted
them and some other ones didn’t,” Edward Stack, chairman and
chief executive officer of the Coraopolis, Pennsylvania-based
retailer, said on an Aug. 14 earnings call.  Gaining Confidence  Homebuilders such as  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  are gaining confidence
as less expensive properties and record-low  mortgage rates 
entice buyers.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
confidence index rose to 37, higher than projected and the best
showing since February 2007, figures from the Washington-based
group showed. Readings below 50 mean more respondents said
conditions were poor.  “The outlook appears to be brightening,” Barry Rutenberg,
chairman of the NAHB and a builder from Gainesville, Florida,
said in a statement. At the same time, “there is still much
room for improvement.”  The production report showed factories are holding up.
Manufacturing, which makes up about 75 percent of total output,
rose 0.5 percent in July for a second month.  The Fed’s figures showed motor vehicle output increased 3.3
percent in July after a 1.9 percent increase the month before.
Computer and electronics makers produced 1.5 percent more.  Demand Rebounds  “The  auto industry  is probably responding to something
they didn’t expect when the year started, and that was a pretty
impressive bounce-back in demand,” said David Resler, chief
economic adviser at Nomura Securities International Inc.  The report also showed utility production increased 1.3
percent after slumping 3.3 percent in June as Americans tried to
cool their homes. July was the hottest month in the lower 48
states in records going back to 1895, according to the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . The average temperature
in the 48 states was 77.6 degrees Fahrenheit (25.3 Celsius), or
3.3 degrees above normal, the agency reported.  Not all the data was positive. A report from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York  showed manufacturing in the region
unexpectedly contracted this month. The so-called Empire State
Index fell to minus 5.9 in August from 7.4 last month. Readings
less than zero signal contraction in the measure that covers New
York, northern New Jersey and southern Connecticut.  Deere & Co. (DE) , the largest maker of  farm equipment , today
posted fiscal third-quarter profit that trailed analysts’
estimates and cut its full-year earnings forecast after global
demand slowed. Equipment sales rose 16 percent from a year ago,
compared with the 25 percent increase Deere forecast in May.  “Sales fell short of our expectations due to weakening in
certain international markets and short-term manufacturing
inefficiencies resulting from the introduction of a record
number of new products,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Sam Allen said in the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  