-- International Demand for U.S. Assets Declined in June
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-08-15T14:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/international-demand-for-u-s-assets-falls-from-previous-month.html
International demand for U.S.
financial assets fell in June from the previous month’s inflows,
as investors saw  Europe ’s leaders moving toward a resolution of
their financial crisis.  Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled
$9.3 billion during the month, a drop from net purchases of
$55.9 billion in May, the  Treasury Department  said today in
Washington. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected net
buying of $40 billion of long-term assets, according to the
median estimate.  Including short-term securities such as stock swaps,
foreigners bought a net $16.7 billion in June, compared with net
purchases of $121.3 billion the previous month. Net foreign
purchases of  U.S. Treasuries  fell to $32.4 billion in June from
$45.9 billion the previous month.  “The U.S. was not the safe haven it was earlier in the
year for global funds as questions over the sustainability of
the U.S. recovery cropped up,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  New York , said
in an e-mail after the report was released. “Credit concerns
seemed to be paramount as the selling of corporate bonds has
been sizeable.”  U.S. Attraction  U.S. assets have been attractive to investors this year as
European Union leaders face a worsening debt crisis. The euro-
area economy shrank in the second quarter and tougher budget
cuts forced at least six nations into recessions. Gross domestic
product in the 17-nation currency bloc fell 0.2 percent from the
first quarter, when it stagnated, according to European Union
data released yesterday.  Mike Englund, chief economist at Action Economics LLC in
Boulder,  Colorado , said purchases of Treasuries in June remained
“relatively large” even if net buying of U.S. assets was
“fairly modest.”  With the world’s largest economy and deepest financial
markets, the U.S. has been a shelter for investors at a time
when Europe is struggling to contain its sovereign-debt crisis
and Chinese growth is slowing.  Low yields -- 10-year Treasuries fell to a record 1.379
percent on July 25 -- show that most money managers have faith
the government will meet its obligations, in spite of a decision
by  Standard & Poor’s  in August 2011 to downgrade U.S. government
debt.  Economist Estimates  Estimates of foreign purchases of long-term U.S. assets in
June ranged from net buying of $20 billion to $85 billion,
according to six economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the
report.  Treasuries fell today, sending 10-year yields to an almost
three-month high, on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will put
off more stimulus measures. The 10-year yield rose as much as
five basis points to 1.79 percent and was four basis points
higher at 10:16 a.m. in New York.  China  remained the biggest foreign owner of U.S. Treasuries
in June after its holdings rose $300 million to $1.16 trillion,
according to the Treasury.  Hong Kong , counted separately from China, lowered its
holdings of Treasuries by $8.3 billion to $135.5 billion.
Japan’s holdings increased by $10.4 billion to $1.12 trillion.  The Treasury Department’s data capture international
purchases of government notes and bonds, stocks, corporate debt
and securities issued by U.S. agencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 Ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  