-- Interserve Rises After Announcing Higher Dividend: London Mover
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-08-15T15:58:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/interserve-rises-after-announcing-higher-dividend-london-mover.html
Interserve Plc (IRV)  rose in London as the
U.K. builder and provider of services from training to cleaning
announced higher pretax profit, raised its dividend and said it
will expand in Latin America and the  Middle East .  Interserve climbed 3.5 percent to 335.2 pence, the biggest
advance since July 10. The company increased its dividend by 6.7
percent to 6.4 pence per share, “reflecting our confidence in
the medium-term outlook,” it said in a statement today. Pretax
profit advanced 8.3 percent to 32.6 million pounds ($51 million)
on “strong” support services growth.  Interserve, which was involved in projects for the London
 Olympic Games  including the aquatic center, reiterated its
guidance for stable performance this year and said it will
continue to develop internationally. It operates in Middle East
countries including Oman, Qatar and Dubai, as well as  Latin
America  and is now looking at  Brazil .  “We’re in  Chile  and in  Panama  and we export into one or
two other territories in Latin America but clearly our focus is
in Spanish speaking Latin America,” Chief Executive Officer
Adrian Ringrose said on a conference call. “Brazil is a
possibility. It is clearly slightly different, but the scale of
the market is one that we cannot ignore and we are not
ignoring.”  Public sector services  The company’s sales climbed 2.8 percent to 1.21 billion
pounds in the first six months. Interserve won more than 1.4
billion pounds of work in the period, with 800 million pounds
from support services, 500 million pounds from construction and
100 million pounds from equipment services. For next year, the
company has 1.1 billion pounds of work.  Interserve has expanded into India, Singapore, Chile and
Panama in the last couple of years, Ringrose said,  Panama’s economy is projected to expand 7.5 percent in
2012, making it the second straight year that Panama would lead
Latin America in growth, according to the  International Monetary
Fund .  The Brazilian government plans measures including
investment in roads, ports and airports to spur the largest
emerging-market economy after  China , President  Dilma Rousseff 
said in July. Brazil’s economy will grow 1.8 percent this year,
according to the latest central bank survey.  U.K. Services  The company’s U.K. support services unit derives about 65
percent of its revenue from the public sector and 35 percent
from the private sector and expects the breakdown to remain at
the same levels, Ringrose said on the call. The division’s
projects include support for the U.K. Department of Work and
Pensions welfare programs and work with the U.K. Ministry of
Justice for outsourced prison services.  “The underlying economics of the government situation
remains very, very challenging,” Ringrose said.  Interserve revenue in the U.K. construction division rose
by 0.4 percent in the first six months of 2012, as the company
focused on small projects and on clients that have repeated
business requirements.  “This strategy has served us pretty well,” Ringrose said.  Britain’s economy shrank 0.7 percent in the three months
through June, the third straight quarter of contraction.  “One can never stop worrying about a business,” Ringrose
said. “We could be in a lot worse place than we are. It’s a
fairly challenging market backdrop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Zega in  London  at 
 rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  