-- Offshore U.S. Oil Rule Disappoints Environmentalists
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/interior-issues-u-s-offshore-drilling-safety-rule-correct-.html
The U.S. issued a final rule on
offshore drilling safety that the Obama administration said will
reduce the risk of blowouts such as the 2010 one in the  Gulf of
Mexico , while environmentalists said the regulations don’t go
far enough.  The Interior Department said the rule, issued yesterday,
will cost the industry $130.7 million a year for additional
inspections, testing and equipment designed to prevent a spill
similar to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Gulf of Mexico disaster in 2010.  Companies including BP, the largest leaseholder in the deep
waters of the gulf, and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  have been
operating under similar interim requirements imposed shortly
after the BP accident, which killed 11 workers and spilled
millions of barrels of oil. Environmentalists say tougher rules
are needed to control companies that are drilling at ever deeper
levels in the gulf and expanding exploration of the Arctic.  The new rule “is stronger than the interim rule but not
strong enough,” David Pettit, senior attorney at the New York-
based  Natural Resources Defense Council , said in an e-mail. “It
should require real-world testing of the response time for
containment of a wild well.”  The rule requires a professional engineer to certify that a
well’s casing and cementing, used to prevent uncontrolled leaks,
are appropriate. An independent third party must also verify the
adequacy of the rig’s blowout preventer -- equipment designed to
plug a gusher, which failed at BP’s drill site.  Expanding Operations  “The administration’s priority is continuing to expand
offshore oil and gas development, while ensuring that drilling
operations in our oceans continue to be the safest in the
world,” Jim Watson, the director of the Interior Department’s
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Drillers added safety equipment and created systems to
collect oil spilled under the water’s surface after BP spent
about three months trying to bring its Macondo well under
control. Shell, which is planning to start drilling in the
Beaufort and Chukchi seas off  Alaska ’s north coast this year,
has been delayed by the U.S. inspections of the containment
system it aims to use in Arctic conditions.  “We are reviewing the rule,” Reid Porter, a spokesman for
the  American Petroleum Institute , a Washington-based trade
organization, said yesterday in an e-mail. “Our number one
priority is safety.”  ‘Lax Inspections’  Oceana , a Washington-based environmental group, criticized
the rule for failing to improve on the interim one.  Coming on top of “lax inspections and laughably low
fines,” the new standards create a “recipe for another
spill,” Jacqueline Savitz, Oceana’s senior campaign director,
said in an e-mail.  Compared to the interim rule, the final one clarifies what
is required in well-control barriers; defines testing
requirements for cement; clarifies requirements for the
installation of dual mechanical barriers; and extends the
requirement for blowout preventers to well-completions and
decommissioning operations.  Annual costs under the interim rule were estimated at
$183.4 million. The Interior Department said much of the savings
in the final version come from a reduced estimate for the length
of time required for underwater testing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  