-- Ironman’s $1,200 Price May Spell End for New York-Area Triathlon
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/ironman-1-200-price-tag-may-mark-end-to-new-york-area-triathlon.html
The Ironman triathlon’s first visit
to the  New York  area may be its last after the entry fee surged
to $1,200.  “This race may be one and done,” John Korff, the event’s
local organizer, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “The
price is too high.”  Ironman, which is owned by Providence Equity Partners Inc.,
suspended registration for the 2013 race on Aug. 13, citing
feedback from customers and the logistics of staging the race in
the New York metropolitan area. The inaugural race was held Aug.
11, with a fee of $895.  “What John Korff and his team were able to accomplish from
a logistics standpoint was actually very impressive,” Shane
Facteau, Ironman’s vice president of North American operations,
said in an interview. “I don’t want that to get lost. That
being said, there are challenges and we need to take a step back
and look at everything. Operating one of these races in a major
metropolitan area carries a pretty significant price tag.”  Refunds will be given to early registrants who paid $1,200,
a 34 percent increase over this year’s fee, Ironman said.  Chris Schauble, a 42-year-old news anchor who traveled to
New York from  Los Angeles  with his wife and four daughters to
compete in the race as part of a family vacation, said he
understands why the price increase has caused backlash. He wants
the race to continue.  ‘Well Done’  “Whatever it takes for them to keep the race going, I
support it,” Schauble, who spent about $8,500 on the trip, said
in a telephone interview. “It was well done. Was it perfect? No.
Would I do it again? Absolutely. I know the people involved need
to make a profit. But most people who do Ironman know that it’s
just such a unique experience. To me, it was worth every
penny.”  While Korff, 60, said there were minor logistics issues
that need to be addressed, the decision to suspend the
registration was based mostly on economic reasons. Registration
for the 2012 race sold out in 11 minutes.  Some competitors in this year’s race said it was difficult
to get to the event’s start area, which required a ferry ride at
4 a.m. local time, and said the race’s run portion through
 Manhattan ’s Riverside Park was difficult due to numerous
pedestrians being on the course.  Opposing Return  Javier Ruiz, a 39-year-old wealth management adviser with
UBS Financial Services Inc. in Weehawken,  New Jersey , competed
in the race after finishing his first Ironman last year in Lake
Placid, New York.  “I’d never do this race again,” Ruiz said in a telephone
interview. “Going through that park was just awful. The
romantic idea of it was great and they did the best they could,
but it’s just a difficult race to do in a metropolitan area.
I’ll probably go back to Lake Placid.”  Korff said he wasn’t consulted about the price increase
before registration opened and declined to disclose how many
people had signed up for next year.  Facteau and Korff also said the decision was unrelated to
the death of a competitor in the swimming portion or the Hudson
River sewage discharge that briefly threatened to cancel the
swim.  Money Issue  “It’s all about the entry fee,” Korff said. “New York
did not fit Ironman’s economic model. They came out with a very
high price to be guaranteed of a certain profit. The athletes
spoke and they didn’t sign up as quickly as they should and
Ironman got nervous. They’re in this to make money. That’s not
cold, that’s just reality. If I’m them, I may do the same
thing.”  A decision on whether to reopen registration will be made
in four to six weeks, Korff said.  If the race is held again,  John Marshall , a 42-year-old
real estate developer who traveled from Miami,  Florida , to
compete in his 12th Ironman, said he would likely sign up.  “I ran across the George Washington Bridge,” said
Marshall, who grew up in Pelham, New York. “How cool is that?
Complexity costs money. If you don’t like the price, sign up for
a different one. This is not your typical Ironman.”  The Ironman consists of a 2.4-mile swim (3.9 kilometers),
112-mile bike ride and 26.2-mile run.  A 43-year-old male competitor died during the swim portion
of the race. Organizers haven’t identified him, with the  South
China Morning Post  saying he was Andy Naylor, a member of the
Hong Kong Police Force since 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  