-- Ivy Beats Blackrock-Pimco Revealing Flaw: Riskless Return
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-08-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/ivy-beats-blackrock-pimco-revealing-flaw-riskless-return.html
Bryan Krug, a 35-year-old junk-bond
fund manager at Ivy Investment Management Co., is beating peers
at Pacific Investment Management Co. and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  with
higher returns and less volatility by ignoring ratings
companies.  Krug’s $5.7 billion  Ivy High Income Fund (WHIAX)  rose 9.8 percent
in the past five years after adjusting for price swings, the
best among 27 junk bond funds holding more than $2 billion in
assets, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. Krug
beat rivals including those from the world’s two biggest bond
firms, Pimco and BlackRock.  Krug won by favoring the education and technology
industries and holding 28 percent of his fund in bank loans,
which can reduce volatility and risk. He benefited from holding
lower-rated bonds when he disagreed with the views of ratings
companies such as  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service. Debt with S&P’s CCC rating, deemed “currently
vulnerable to nonpayment” by the rating company, beat all other
non-investment grade bonds in the portfolio this year, according
to  data compiled by Bloomberg .  “In our view the  credit-rating agencies  do a poor job,”
Krug, who has run the fund since 2006, said in an interview. “I
think their methodology is flawed.”  Debt Ratings  Ivy High Income holds more low-rated debt than its peers,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund had 27 percent
of its assets in debt with a CCC rating from S&P, almost triple
that of the  SPDR Barclays Capital High Yield Bond ETF (JNK) , which
tracks an index of liquid high-yield bond securities.  The fund holds more than half of its assets in debt rated
B, or five levels below investment grade, compared with about 46
percent for the SPDR ETF, the data show. Of BB rated debt, which
is two levels below investment grade, the Ivy fund holds only
9.2 percent, compared with 38 percent for the SPDR fund,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  High-yield, high-risk bonds are rated below BBB- by S&P and
lower than Baa3 by Moody’s. Krug says the lower credit ratings
don’t mean that his fund is riskier.  “You are assuming that credit rating agencies are good at
measuring risk,” he wrote in an e-mail.  U.S. speculative-grade companies are in the best position
ever to meet debt obligations as Moody’s said Aug. 1 that its
Speculative-Grade Liquidity-Stress index, which falls as
corporations’ ability to manage cash improves, dropped to a
record low in July. That index fell to 3.1 percent in July,
beating the previous record low of 3.3 percent in May.  CCC Outperforms  Debt rated CCC in Krug’s fund has advanced 10.8 percent
this year, compared with the 10.6 percent return for B rated
debt in the portfolio and the 9.7 percent gain for debt with a
BB rating, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Junk bonds  have been buoyed by rising corporate earnings
and record low interest rates since the 2008 financial crisis,
which have made it possible for even lower-quality borrowers to
refinance their debt, said  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer
at Harris Private Bank in  Chicago , where he helps oversee $60
billion. High-yield bonds returned 9.2 percent a year in the
five years ended Aug. 13, outstripping the gains on other
corporate bonds and Treasuries, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  Pimco, BlackRock  Ivy High Income returned 60 percent in the five years ended
Aug. 13 before adjusting for volatility. It ranked 13th out of
27 funds in volatility over that period. Over the past year, the
fund had the best risk-adjusted return with the third-lowest
swings.  The $2.5 billion  Columbia Income Opportunities Fund (AIOAX) 
produced a total return of 54 percent over the period with
below-average volatility, for a risk adjusted gain of 9.5
percent, the second-best in the ranking. The $2.4 billion
Prudential High Yield Fund, ranked third with a risk-adjusted
gain of 9.4 percent.  The $18.5 billion  Pimco High Yield Fund (PHDAX)  advanced 45 percent
over the past five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The fund has a risk-adjusted return over that period
of 6.2 percent, ranking 21st in the ranking. The fund’s
volatility is the third-highest in the group.  The $8.4 billion  BlackRock High Yield Portfolio (BHYIX)  has climbed
52 percent over the past five years. On a risk-adjusted basis,
the fund ranks 10th, with a volatility that is ninth-highest in
the group.  Down Markets  Krug beat a majority of his peers in six of the last seven
calendar years. In 2008, he lost 20 percent compared with 26
percent for the average high-yield fund, by avoiding cyclical
industries, including autos, Krug wrote in a regulatory filing
in 2009.  “The manager has done well in down markets,” Ronald Sugameli, chief investment officer of Wellesley, Massachusetts-
based Weston Financial Group Inc. said in a telephone interview.
Sugameli, who has a stake in Krug’s fund, helps oversee $1.7
billion for wealthy clients.  Krug has been pessimistic about the  U.S. economy  because he
anticipates it will take time to work off the debt burden
weighing on households and the government. That outlook has
influenced his choice of investments.  Slower Growth  “It’s hard to get too excited about cyclical industries
when you expect 1.5 percent GDP growth,” he said. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predict the U.S. will expand 2.1 percent
this year.  Industries favored by Krug such as telecom and technology
outperformed all high-yield bonds this year, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes. High-yield bonds issued by
technology companies rose 11 percent this year, compared with a
9.8 percent increase for junk bonds through Aug. 13, according
to the data.  Krug has boosted leveraged loans to 28 percent of the fund,
up from 17 percent two years ago, regulatory filings show.
Leveraged loans or bank loans, typically five- to seven-year
loans made to companies with below investment grade debt,
provide a fixed spread over a benchmark, usually the London
interbank offered rate.  Bank loans tend to be less volatile than bonds, Michael Weilheimer, director of high-yield investment at Boston-based
 Eaton Vance Corp. (EV)  said in a telephone interview, because they
are higher up in the  capital structure . In the event of a
default, loan investors typically suffer smaller losses than
their high-yield bond counterparts, he said.  Laureate Stake  Bonds issued by education companies are another favorite
for Krug. Two of his top 10 holdings as of June 30 were bonds
issued by Laureate Education Inc., a Baltimore, Maryland-based
provider of college education.  The two bonds represented 4.8
percent of Ivy High Income, according to the fund’s website.  The company, which is privately-held, hired Morgan Stanley
and Barclays Plc to manage an initial public offering, a person
familiar with the plans said in April. Most of Laureate’s
students are outside the U.S., where for-profit colleges face
less competition, Krug said.  Because Laureate isn’t a public company, he said,
relatively few people pay attention to it, creating
opportunities for investors like himself to exploit.  “When Apple reports earnings, 50 people have a take on the
numbers,” said Krug. “With these under-followed holdings, you
don’t have that.”  Laureate’s bonds are  rated B  by S&P, which has a stable
outlook on the bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mispriced Securities  Krug avoids making predictions on the overall direction of
the high-yield market, preferring instead to focus on individual
securities he regards as mispriced.  In 2007, he began buying debt issued by  Dollar General 
Corp., a Goodlettsville, Tennessee-based discount retailer.
Moody’s had rated the company’s  senior subordinated notes  Caa2
at the time, the fourth-lowest step on its risk scale.  The rating, said Krug, didn’t accurately reflect the
company’s strength.  Dollar General, he said, was already
improving its operations and stood to benefit in a weakening
economy in which consumers would gravitate toward sellers of
low-priced goods.  Events supported Krug’s confidence. The company’s bonds
rallied in September 2008 after Dollar General reported a
profitable second quarter on a 10 percent jump in same-store
sales.  Moody’s raised its rating  on the company’s senior
subordinated notes twice in 2009, once in March and again in
December, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Fantastic’ Result  “The trade was over by the time of the upgrade,” Krug
said. “If you had waited for the rating agency you would have
missed a fantastic result.”  One of the securities Krug owned, the 11.875 percent senior
subordinated note due in July 2017, returned more than 50
percent between April 1, 2008, the first time it appeared in
Ivy’s portfolio, and Dec. 17, 2009, the date of the second
upgrade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Krug has been scouting for opportunities in  Europe . Over
time, he said, regulatory pressure will force loans and debts
off bank balance sheets into the  capital markets .  “Europe could be interesting to watch,” he said. “They
just haven’t felt enough pain yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  