-- Jaguar Revival Cuts Tata Bond Risk More Than Ford: India Credit
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-08-16T12:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/jaguar-revival-cuts-tata-bond-risk-more-than-ford-india-credit.html
The risk of holding debt in  Tata
Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  is dropping the most among automakers worldwide as
sales at its Jaguar Land Rover unit increase during a global
economic slump.  The cost of five-year swaps insuring the Mumbai-based
company’s bonds against non-payment has fallen 262 basis points
this year, compared with declines of 124 basis points for  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  and 74 basis points for  Daimler AG (DAI) , according to data
provider CMA. The yield on Tata’s pound-denominated 8.125
percent notes maturing 2018 touched a record low of 6.951
percent on Aug. 15, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Second-
quarter  revenue  rose 30 percent.  Chairman  Ratan Tata  is focusing on emerging economies such
as  China , the world’s biggest car market, after buying the U.K.
luxury  vehicle brands  from Ford in 2008 for $2.5 billion. Jaguar
Land Rover sold 86 percent more vehicles in Asia’s biggest
economy last quarter from a year earlier. Standard & Poor’s
raised Tata Motors’  credit rating  on July 9, saying its main
unit’s operating performance is expected to improve.  “Apart from western  Europe , all JLR markets continue to
grow, and we don’t see that the volumes are going to falter,”
 Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst at Fortune Equity Broking  India 
Ltd., said in an Aug. 14 interview. “JLR’s profitability will
continue to grow, and that in turn will spur Tata Motors.”  Bond Risk  The bond risk for India’s biggest automaker by revenue has
fallen faster than credit-default swaps on  State Bank  of India,
which some investors consider a proxy for the sovereign. The
cost of protecting the lender’s debt has declined 69 basis
points in 2012 to 326 in  New York , according to CMA, owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. Those for Reliance Industries Ltd., the
country’s biggest company by market value, slid 134 basis points
to 267.  The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to debt agreements. A drop signals improving
perceptions of creditworthiness.  Tata Motor’s  shares  have advanced 32 percent this year,
beating a 14 percent advance in the  BSE India Sensitive Index. (SENSEX) 
The shares rose 0.2 percent to 235.45 rupees at the close in
Mumbai. The market was closed yesterday for a public holiday.  Debasis Ray, the automaker’s Mumbai-based spokesman, didn’t
reply to an e-mail seeking comment or return calls made to his
mobile phone on Aug. 14 and yesterday.  Jaguar Land Rover’s sales in July rose 41 percent to 26,921
vehicles, Tata Motors said in a statement today. The sales have
risen 36 percent to 110,373 since April 1, the statement said.  Borrowing Costs  Falling borrowing costs are providing financing
opportunities for Indian companies. The average yield on Indian
dollar bonds has fallen to 5.18 percent, from 6.83 percent at
the end of last year. ICICI Bank Ltd. sold $750 million of bonds
at 4.7 percent on Aug. 14 and  Union Bank of India  raised $350
million selling 4.625 percent dollar-denominated notes.  Ten-year rupee borrowing costs for companies rated AAA by
Crisil, the Indian unit of  Standard & Poor’s ,  declined  to 9.49
percent as of Aug. 14 from 9.60 percent on April 4, the highest
level in 2012. Tata Motors raised 2.5 billion rupees in May
selling 10 percent bonds maturing in May 2017, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The notes traded close to their par value
on Aug. 2, according to the Fixed Income Money Market and
Derivatives Association of India.  Credit Rating Raised  The yield on the benchmark 8.15 percent government debt due
June 2022 rose two basis points to 8.24 percent today, according
to the central bank’s trading system. The  extra yield  on 10-year
sovereign notes over U.S. Treasuries fell two basis points to
639 basis points, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Growth in Jaguar Land Rover’s sales volume and demand for
Land Rover’s models such as the Evoque led S&P to raise Tata
Motors’ credit rating by one notch to BB, its second-highest
non-investment grade, with a positive outlook.  Fitch Ratings 
affirmed its BB ranking and stable outlook on Aug. 13.  Net income  rose 12 percent to 22.45 billion rupees ($406
million) in the three months ended June 30, on sales of 431.7
billion rupees, Tata Motors said in an Aug. 9 statement. The
company said it suffered a one-time loss on foreign exchange of
4.4 billion rupees. The Indian currency, which declined 8.6
percent in the quarter through June in the worst performance in
the region, fell 0.6 percent to 56.01 per dollar today.  Jaguar Land Rover  Jaguar Land Rover, which accounted for 64 percent of the
company’s  revenue , said earnings before interest, taxation,
depreciation and amortization rose 45 percent to 526.4 million
pounds ($826 million) in the quarter ended June 30. The unit had
cash of 2.3 billion pounds, it said in an Aug. 9  investor
presentation.   “The fastest growing markets will be China and Asia,”
Chairman Tata said in an Aug. 10 speech to shareholders.  While China’s growth is the fastest among major economies,
its 7.6 percent pace of expansion in the second quarter was the
slowest in three years. Neighboring India,  South Korea  and
 Indonesia  this month reported slides in their overseas sales
amid the global slowdown. The euro-area economy shrank in the
second quarter, European Union’s statistics office said Aug. 14.  “Everywhere the growth is slowing,” said Taina Erajuuri,
a  money manager  at FIM Asset Management in Helsinki, which
oversees about $1.2 billion of assets and holds Tata Motors
shares. “China was earlier considered to be immune, but now
we’re seeing growth slow there as well,” she said by telephone
on Aug. 14. “Car sales are usually the first ones to be hit as
customers spending power decreases.”  ‘Doing Well’  Jaguar Land Rover is banking on new designs to increase
sales.  Evoque , the hit model that has a special edition styled
by former Spice Girls singer  Victoria Beckham , went on sale in
September and accounted for more than 37 percent of Land Rover-
brand sales last quarter.  Tata Motors said in May it would spend 2 billion pounds
this year on an expansion that includes a pipeline of 40 new or
upgraded vehicle models over the next five years.  “New models may help boost volume,” Juergen Maier, a
Vienna-based  fund manager  at Raiffeisen Capital Management that
oversees about $1.1 billion of emerging-market assets, said in
an Aug. 9 telephone interview. “The long-term picture is in
place. JLR is doing well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 