-- China Calls on Japan to Release Arrested Island Activists
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-08-16T07:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/japan-arrests-14-for-landing-on-island-claimed-by-china.html
China  called on Japan to release
Hong Kong activists who landed on an island claimed by both
countries, amid reports they may be deported.  China’s Ministry of Commerce is “highly concerned” about
the detention of 14 Chinese nationals, Xinhua News Agency said,
citing spokesman Shen Danyang. The group may be deported in the
next few days,  Kyodo News  reported, without citing anyone.
Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda yesterday said the men
would be treated “strictly according to Japanese law.”  Energy rights are at the center of the dispute in the  East
China Sea  over the islands, known as Senkaku in Japanese and
Diaoyu in Chinese. The two countries have failed to implement a
June 2008 deal to develop a natural  gas field  in the area and
Japan has objected to Chinese drilling nearby.  “Growing competition for the rich energy and fishing
resources that lie beneath  Asia ’s waters is adding an economic
incentive for rivalry,” Thomas Berger, a professor of
international relations at  Boston University , said in e-mailed
comments. “The landing and arrest of the Chinese activists on
the disputed Senkaku/Diaoyu islands is only the latest sign of
troubles ahead.”  The arrests, on the 67th anniversary of the Japanese
surrender that ended World War II, came as Japan and  South Korea 
struggled to overcome a separate maritime territorial dispute
that has frayed ties. The bickering comes ahead of leadership
contests this year in all three countries.  The collision of a Chinese fishing boat with two Japanese
Coast Guard vessels near the islands in September 2010 sent
bilateral relations to the lowest level in at least five years.
The captain of the boat was detained for 17 days before being
released.  Flag Planted  The activists, called the  Action Committee for Defending
the Diaoyu Islands , planted a Chinese flag on the island before
being detained, the Japanese Coast Guard said in a statement.
Five of the 14 were arrested for landing on the island and
violating immigration laws, according to the statement.  The Chinese government lodged “solemn representations”
with  Japan  over the “illegal detention” of Chinese nationals,
Xinhua said. Hong Kong Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying summoned
Japanese Consul-General Yuji Kumamaru to express his concerns,
the city government said in a press release.  A Japanese group of about 150 people, including some
lawmakers, plan to sail a boat near the islands on Aug. 19.
 Tokyo  Governor Shintaro Ishihara in April said the metropolitan
government was seeking to buy the islands from a private
Japanese family that owns them, sparking outrage in China.  Historical Legacy  Japan’s aggression in the first half of the 20th century
continues to play a part in its regional relations. While Noda
yesterday expressed “profound remorse” for Japan causing
“tremendous damage and suffering” during the war, two of his
ministers visited a controversial war shrine in Tokyo seen in
China and  Korea  as a symbol of the period.  “Chain links tangled in the history of Korea-Japan
relations are hampering the common march toward a better
tomorrow in Northeast Asia,” South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said yesterday in  Seoul  to mark Liberation Day.  His Aug. 10 trip to a string of islets also claimed by
Japan eroded bilateral ties, with Japan recalling its ambassador
to South Korea in protest. The opposition Liberal  Democratic
Party  today called on the Noda government to reconsider its
policy on South Korea, including whether to renew a $70 billion
currency swap accord.  Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura yesterday
said the government wasn’t reconsidering the agreement.  Gas Reserves  The rocks, called Takeshima in Japanese and Dokdo in
Korean, lie 87 kilometers (54 miles) east of the closest South
Korean territory and 158 kilometers from the nearest Japanese
land, and are near fishing grounds and natural gas reserves.  Lee reiterated his call for the Japanese government to
compensate Korean women forced into prostitution during World
War II. As many as 200,000 women, mostly from Korea and China,
were forced into sexual servitude during Japan’s colonial
period. Japan apologized in 1993 and set up a compensation fund
that some victims rejected because it was funded through private
contributions.  National Public Safety Commission Chairman Jin Matsubara
and Land Minister Yuichiro Hata became the first cabinet members
to go to Yasukuni Shrine, whose honorees include men convicted
of  war crimes , since Noda’s Democratic Party of Japan came to
power in 2009 pledging to improve ties with China and South
Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  