-- Japan Ministers Visit War Shrine as Ties With S. Korea Fray
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-08-15T07:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/japan-minister-visits-war-shrine-fraying-ties-with-south-korea.html
Two Japanese cabinet ministers
visited a controversial war shrine in Tokyo in a move that may
worsen relations with  China  and South Korea that are fraying
over maritime territorial disputes.  The two men today visited Yasukuni Shrine, whose honorees
include men convicted of  war crimes , to commemorate the 67th
anniversary of  Japan ’s surrender that ended World War II. South
Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  and Japanese Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  each attended ceremonies in their countries to
mark the occasion.  “Chain links tangled in the history of Korea-Japan
relations are hampering the common march toward a better
tomorrow in Northeast  Asia ,” Lee said in  Seoul . Noda expressed
“profound remorse” for Japan causing “tremendous damage and
suffering” during the war, in remarks in Tokyo.  Lee’s Aug. 10 trip to a string of islets also claimed by
Japan worsened ties between Asia’s second and fourth-biggest
economies and preceded a flare-up over a separate set of islands
to which Japan and China each assert ownership. The bickering
comes ahead of leadership contests this year in all three
countries.  Lee reiterated his call for the Japanese government to
compensate Korean women forced into prostitution during World
War II. Lee yesterday said Emperor Akihito should apologize for
Japan’s aggression during the first half of the 20th century,
when it occupied the Korean peninsula and much of China.  Sexual Servitude  Noda and Japanese Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  today
both criticized Lee’s request for an apology from the emperor as
“extremely regrettable.” Gemba called on both countries to
deal with their differences “calmly.”  As many as 200,000 women, mostly from Korea and China, were
forced into sexual servitude during Japan’s colonial period. The
Japanese government apologized in 1993 and set up a compensation
fund that some victims rejected because it was funded through
private contributions.  Japan recalled its ambassador to South Korea in protest
after Lee’s visit to the rocks, called Takeshima in Japanese and
Dokdo in Korean and which lie 87 kilometers (54 miles) east of
the closest South Korean territory and 158 kilometers from the
nearest Japanese land. The area includes fishing grounds and
natural gas reserves and may also have oil, according to the
South Korean government.  A maritime dispute between Japan and China flared as a boat
carrying a group of activists from  Hong Kong  approached islands
in the  East China Sea  claimed by both countries. At least six
Japanese Coast Guard vessels surrounded the boat after issuing a
warning that it had entered Japan’s territorial waters, group
leader Chan Miu-Tak said by telephone in Hong Kong.  Coast Guard  The Coast Guard yesterday said it will stop the Hong Kong
group from reaching the islands, known as Diaoyu in Chinese and
Senkaku in Japanese. Chan, chairman of the  Action Committee for
Defending the Diaoyu Islands , said the boat was about 27
nautical miles from the islands.  China has asked Japan not to take actions that will harm
the activists, Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang said in a
statement posted on the ministry website.  A group of about 150 people, including some Japanese
lawmakers, plan to sail a boat near the islands on Aug. 19.
 Tokyo  Governor Shintaro Ishihara in April said the metropolitan
government was seeking to buy the islands from a private
Japanese family that owns them, sparking outrage in China.  Noda Ignored  Sovereignty over the area gives the holder control of
undersea natural gas and oil fields, and China and Japan signed
an agreement in 2008 for joint development that has yet to be
implemented. The collision of a Chinese fishing vessel with two
Japanese Coast Guard boats in the area almost two years ago
soured relations between the two countries.  National Public Safety Commission Chairman Jin Matsubara
and Land Minister Yuichiro Hata became the first cabinet members
to go to Yasukuni since the  Democratic Party  of Japan came to
power in 2009, pledging to improve ties with China and  South
Korea . The two ignored Noda’s Aug. 10 call for his ministers
“to refrain from officially visiting the shrine.”  South Korea holds a presidential election in December to
replace Lee after his five-year term. China is gearing up for
its once-in-a-decade leadership transition later this year and
Noda faces re-election as head of the DPJ in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  