-- Japan, Australian Stock Futures Advance on China Stimulus
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2012-08-15T23:47:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/japan-australian-stock-futures-advance-on-china-stimulus.html
Japanese and Australian  stock
futures  rose as Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said easing inflation
is allowing room to adjust monetary policy and positive signs
are emerging in the world’s second-largest economy.  American depositary receipts of  Sony Corp. (6758) , a Japanese
consumer electronics exporter that gets almost 70 percent of its
revenue overseas, rose 1 percent from the closing price in Tokyo
after the yen weakened. Shares of All Nippon Airways Co.,
Japan’s largest carrier, may be active after saying it will sell
shares. ADRs of Woodside Petroleum Ltd., Australia’s second-
largest oil producer, gained 0.5 percent after crude prices
increased.  Futures on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
September closed at 8,935 in Chicago yesterday compared with
8,920 in Osaka. They were bid in pre-market trading at 8,930 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
futures rose 0.1 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
gained 0.1 percent in Wellington.  “Monetary easing is taking effect in China. Wen’s remarks
are pushing it, and that’s a positive catalyst for the
markets,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a Tokyo-based strategist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which oversees about $70
billion. “The Premier seldom makes such direct remarks, but he
might want to emphasize that government wants to support the
economy by monetary policies.”  Wen Stimulus  State television reported Wen as saying there’s “growing
room for monetary policy operation” during a two-day inspection
tour in the eastern province of Zhejiang.  “We have the
conditions and capabilities, and will be sure to fulfill this
year’s economic and social development targets,” Wen said, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. He said downward
pressure on the economy remained “relatively large,” according
to state radio.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  were little
changed today. The S&P rose added 0.1 percent yesterday in New
York as investors weighed manufacturing data for clues on
whether the  Federal Reserve  will move to stimulate the economy.  Industrial production in the U.S. increased in July, Fed
data showed, propelled by a pickup in motor vehicle output and a
rebound in power use during the hottest month on record. A
separate report showed manufacturing in the New York area
unexpectedly contracted in August for the first time since
October.  “The U.S. economic data are mixed and business sentiment
is neither good nor bad,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees
about $633 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. “That’s boosting expectations the Fed may add to
quantitative easing.”  Yen Falls  U.S. trading has slowed as vacationing traders await policy
clues from the Fed’s summit at the end of the month and the
European Central Bank meeting in September.  The yen depreciated to as low as 79.05 against the dollar
last night in Tokyo, compared with 78.79 at the close of  stock
trading  yesterday, boosting the value of overseas income at
Japanese companies when repatriated.  Crude oil for September delivery gained 1 percent to $94.33
a barrel in New York yesterday, the highest settlement since May
14.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S was little changed at 92.48 yesterday.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 7 percent from this year’s
high on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis will worsen and  China’s economy  is
slowing. The regional benchmark index traded at 12.4 times
estimated earnings compared with 13.6 times for the  S&P 500
Index  and a multiple of 11.6 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Of the 1,008 companies listed on the Asian benchmark gauge,
117 are reporting earnings this week, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Of the 428 companies that have posted quarterly
results since July 1, and for which Bloomberg has estimates, 44
percent have exceeded expectations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  