-- JBS Reports Profit After Year-Ago Loss as Beef Margins Widen
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2012-08-15T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/jbs-reports-profit-after-year-ago-loss-as-beef-margins-widen.html
JBS SA (JBSS3) , the world’s largest beef
producer, posted a second-quarter profit after last year’s loss
amid improved Brazilian beef margins and a stronger  U.S. dollar 
that boosted gains from overseas operations in local currency.  Net income of 169.5 million reais ($83.6 million) compares
with a loss of 180.8 million reais a year ago, the Sao Paulo-
based company said in a regulatory filing yesterday. The average
adjusted profit estimate of five analysts tracked by Bloomberg
was 253.9 million reais.  Earnings before items represented 5.5 percent of sales, up
from 4 percent a year ago, after margins at its Mercosur beef
unit improved on lower cattle prices. Cattle prices in Brazil,
which accounts for about a quarter of sales, fell 7.2 percent,
on average, in the period, the University of Sao Paulo’s Cepea
crop-research agency said on its website.  Pilgrim’s Pride (PPC) , the company’s U.S. unit, “showed a
material recovery in profitability,” which translated into
better results, Ricardo Boiati, an analyst with  Banco Bradesco
SA (BBDC4) , said in a Aug. 7 note to clients. He rates the stock market
perform, which means the stock is expected to perform in the
range of 10 percent above or below the main Bovespa stock index.  The Brazilian real’s 9.1 percent slide against the U.S.
dollar in the quarter boosted the value of overseas assets in
local currency, which is booked as a gain under the country’s
accounting rules. Overseas units, including the U.S. and
 Australia , represent about 75 percent of sales.  JBS’s financial loss of 389.4 million reais in the quarter
fell from 590.9 million reais a year ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  