-- JFK Coaches Patterson; Nantucket Vies With the Vineyard: Books
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/jfk-coaches-patterson-nantucket-vies-with-the-vineyard-books.html
Floyd Patterson was a champion
truant, a youthful burglar, a juvenile delinquent’s juvenile
delinquent.  Nothing particularly distinguished about that -- nothing,
that is, until he discovered “he was a natural when it came to
smashing his fist into another kid’s face,’’ as W.K. Stratton
puts it in his deft new biography, “ Floyd Patterson: The
Fighting Life of Boxing’s Invisible Champion .”  So boxing became Patterson’s avocation and vocation. He
trained hard, fought hard, gained confidence, gained riches. As
a young fighter he aimed for the Olympics -- and won a gold
medal in 1952. He made good, and made history.  For much of his life, he seemed charmed. His path
intersected with Eleanor Roosevelt, Billy Eckstine and  John F.
Kennedy . He defeated Archie Moore to become the heavyweight
champion of the world, the youngest ever. Champions are meant to
be toppled, however, and Patterson was.  Kennedy urged Patterson not to fight Sonny Liston, nobody’s
idea of a solid citizen, and Liston beat him solidly. His match
with  Muhammad Ali  was freighted with religious and political
overtones, and Ali came out the clear winner on all counts.  As the cheers receded into the past, so too did the claims
that Patterson was an Uncle Tom, a tool of the white
establishment. At a time when Ali’s reputation still shines, and
Liston’s fearsomeness still resonates, Stratton’s biography re-
establishes Patterson as one of the greats of his time, an
invisible champion no longer.  ‘Dream Team’  Speaking of legends and legacies, let’s turn to the 1992
U.S. men’s Olympic basketball team. The names still shimmer in
memory:  Charles Barkley .  Larry Bird .  Patrick Ewing .  Magic
Johnson .  Michael Jordan . Scottie Pippen.  David Robinson .  Jack McCallum was there, as a Sports Illustrated writer. He
was credited, perhaps too grandly, with first describing this
squad as the “ Dream Team ,” which inevitably is the title of
his chatty and amusing new book looking back on these men and
the magic and myths they spun on the court.  In returning to what he calls a team “forged amid
conflicts athletic and bureaucratic and touched by tragedy and
controversy when it returned home,’’ McCallum has produced an
insider’s account of a remarkable group of athletes and -- often
forgotten -- an equally remarkable group of coaches under Chuck Daly (P.J. Carlesimo,  Mike Krzyzewski  and Lenny Wilkens).  Private Game  But the highlight of this volume is the account of what
McCallum calls “the greatest game that nobody ever saw,” the
intra-squad game that pitted Johnson’s “blue team’’ against
Jordan’s “white team,’’ which in the end prevailed in a
meaningless game that nonetheless seemed to mean everything.  “It was not about the hoops,’’ McCallum writes. “It was
about the passion that those guys put into the game, the
importance they placed on winning and personal pride.’’  Pride is also at the heart of what may be the sweetest
sports book of the summer,  James Sullivan ’s lyrical “ Island
Cup : Two Teams, Twelve Miles of Ocean and Fifty Years of
Football Rivalry.’’  Martha’s Vineyard and Nantucket have everything and nothing
in common. They both sit off the Massachusetts coast, in summer
offering refuge for the rich, colonies for artists and the
setting for fabulous restaurants. But their histories, cultures
and outlooks are different. Off season, they share one important
element -- a gridiron rivalry like no other.  For years this rivalry lit up the late fall on these
islands and then -- because of high travel costs and the
movement of one team (the Vineyard) to higher glory and the
other (Nantucket) to pigskin peril -- it all stopped, the match-
up coming to an end.  But both islands, and both teams, felt its absence deeply,
and now the game is back on again, resuming with a classic
struggle where the scoreboard almost didn’t matter.  “Floyd Patterson” is published by Houghton Mifflin
Harcourt (269 pages, $25). “Dream Team” is published by
Ballantine (352 pages, $28). “Island Cup” is published by
Bloomsbury (292 pages, $24). To buy these books in  North
America , click  here .  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 