-- JPMorgan, UBS Said Among Banks Queried in Libor Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-08-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/jpmorgan-barclays-said-among-banks-to-get-libor-subpoenas.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  are among seven banks subpoenaed in New York and
Connecticut’s investigation into alleged manipulation of Libor,
according to a person familiar with the matter and company
filings.  Subpoenas were sent in recent weeks to five of the banks,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in addition to JPMorgan and Barclays, the person
said yesterday.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  received subpoenas
earlier this year as part of the investigation.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and Connecticut
Attorney General George Jepsen are jointly investigating alleged
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate by lenders.
RBS, UBS,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Deutsche Bank are among
the lenders regulators in Europe, Asia and the U.S. are
investigating. The U.S. is conducting a criminal investigation.  Confidence in Libor, a benchmark for financial products
valued at $360 trillion worldwide, has been dented by Barclays’s
admission that it submitted false London and euro interbank
offered rates.  Robert Diamond  resigned as Barclays’ chief
executive after the bank was fined 290 million pounds ($454
million).  False Submissions  Derivatives traders requested the false submissions in the
Libor and Euribor setting process, as they were “motivated by
profit and sought to benefit Barclays’ trading positions,” the
U.K. Financial Services Authority said.  The investigation by Schneiderman and Jepsen could broaden
to include additional banks, said the person.  Jennifer Givner, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman, and Jaclyn
Falkowski, a spokeswoman for Jepsen, declined to comment on the
subpoenas.  Sarah Binnie, a spokeswoman for Edinburgh-based RBS, said
the bank continues to receive requests from various regulators
investigating the setting of Libor and other  interest rates . The
lender is cooperating with the investigations and “keeping
relevant regulators informed,” she said in e-mail.  “It is not possible to estimate with any certainty what
effect these investigations and any related developments may
have on the group,” Binnie said.  Information Requests  Kathryn Hanes, a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank, said the
lender has received subpoenas and requests for information from
some regulators and governmental entities in the U.S. in
connection with setting interbank rates and is cooperating.  New York-based Citigroup said in a regulatory filing that
subsidiaries “have received additional requests for information
and documents from various U.S. and non-U.S. governmental
agencies, including the offices of the  New York  and Connecticut
attorneys general.”  UBS said in a regulatory filing that numerous agencies,
including “various state attorneys general” are investigating
whether there were improper attempts to manipulate Libor and
other rates. A second person familiar with the matter said the
bank received a subpoena from New York in February. Both
declined to comment because the matter is private.  New York-based JPMorgan dropped almost 1 percent on the
news. JPMorgan closed at $37.07 in New York Stock Exchange
composite trading. London-based Barclays’s American depositary
receipts fell 6 cents to $11.47. One receipt equals four shares.
Zurich-based UBS fell 3 cents to $10.71 in New York. Frankfurt-
based Deutsche Bank rose 9 cents to $30.78.  ‘Actively Reviewing’  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, Juanita Gutierrez, a
spokeswoman at HSBC, and Barclays spokesman Michael O’Looney
declined to comment on the subpoenas. HSBC said in a 2012
interim report that it is “the subject of regulatory demands”
and is cooperating with the investigations.  In addition to Schneiderman and Jepsen, Florida Attorney
General Pam Bondi is “actively reviewing the Libor matter” and
has issued subpoenas, spokeswoman Jenn Meale said yesterday in
e-mails. Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley ’s office
said in July it was also conducting a Libor investigation and
was working with other state agencies.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. Lenders
are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from one another
for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a set number of quotes are excluded, those remaining are
averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  