-- Kashmir No Longer World’s Most Dangerous Place as Tourism Climbs
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-08-15T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/kashmir-no-longer-world-s-most-dangerous-place-as-tourism-climbs.html
Hotel owner Wahid Malik drives his
ball down the fairway at the Royal Springs Golf Course in Indian
Kashmir, taking a break from hosting tourists flocking to the
disputed region guarded by half a million soldiers and police.  Malik plans to build a new guest house to cash in on a
tourism boom that has seen the number of visitors double to a
record 2 million in the past year, to an area over which
nuclear-armed  India  and Pakistan have fought two wars. With an
anti-Indian insurgency causing the  fewest deaths  since it began
in 1989, five-star hotels are full and the cost of flights to
Kashmir’s summer capital of Srinagar is up 40 percent.  “Our hope is that a few years from now, Kashmir will no
longer be known as a place of tanks and troops,” said Malik, 50,
whose hotel is overlooked by 2,700-meter (8,800-feet) Himalayan
peaks and served as a residence for the army for 15 years until
2005. “No one who lived through the dark days wants a return.”  The tourist rush promises  jobs  in a region where half the
population aged between 18 and 30 are out of work. Getting more
young Kashmiris into full-time employment can further lower
violence and aid peace moves along the subcontinent’s most
intractable fault line, where fighting between militants and
India’s army has killed 50,000 people over more than two decades.  “The security situation feeds off unemployment,” Omar Abdullah, 42, the chief minister of the Indian state of  Jammu
and Kashmir , said in an interview in Srinagar. “A youngster who
is poorly educated with dismal job prospects is more likely to
be recruited into militancy.”  ‘Only Answer’  While the return of the  tourists  brings hope, Kashmir won’t
be at peace until India and Pakistan reach a political solution
for the region that’s been at the core of their conflict for
seven decades, according to Abdullah, whose father and
grandfather both led the state.  “We don’t see tourism as a barometer of normalcy,” he
said, sitting on the  balcony  of his heavily fortified hillside
home. “The problem in Kashmir is political. So even if
militancy were to disappear tomorrow, we still need to address
this problem. That’s the only answer.”  It was the mix of natural beauty and a hybrid culture
blending Sufi Islam, Hinduism and other faiths that each year in
the 1980s drew more than 650,000 Indian tourists, western
backpackers and skiers.  Trekkers’ Kidnapping  By the end of the decade, an election widely perceived as
rigged energized the separatist movement. The 1995 kidnapping of
six westerners by  Islamic guerrillas  demanding that India free
jailed militants dealt a hammer blow to Kashmir tourism,
resulting in the decapitation of a Norwegian hiker and
disappearance of four others. Visitors plunged to 60,000 that
year, government data show.  Pressure on  Pakistan  from the U.S., its biggest aid donor,
to drop state support for Islamic groups, and improved Indian
defenses have seen the cross-border insurgency decline, with
deaths  down  90 percent since 2005.  Anger over alleged human-rights abuses by Indian soldiers
and a lack of self-rule can still boil over into street clashes,
such as those in 2010 in which police shot dead almost 100
protestors.  With India and Pakistan re-engaging in peace talks and
pursuing their biggest initiative yet for cross-border trade,
the fall-off in violence is reviving the Kashmiri economy.  Dal Lake  Vivanta by Taj, the  Tata Group ’s five-star hotel on a
forested hilltop overlooking Dal Lake with room rates of as high
as $300, has been booked out since May. The luxury Lalit hotel
located in the residence of Kashmir’s last maharajah is full.
Billionaire  Anil Ambani , who runs part of the Reliance empire,
and  Hero Motocorp Ltd. (HMCL)  Chairman Brijmohan Munjal were among this
summer’s guests, said Ashwani Patel, the Lalit’s manager.  “This year has surpassed all our expectations,” making
the hotel the chain’s best-performing property on a room-to-
revenue basis across nine Indian cities, said Patel, 32.  The first five-star hotel in the ski resort of Gulmarg is
being built by U.S.-based Interstate Hotels & Resorts Inc. and
Kashmiri business group Khyber Industries Ltd. The 85-room hotel
is due to open in October.  “Investing in Kashmir is no longer a roll of the dice,”
Umar Tramboo, a director at Khyber, said in an interview.  Tourism is once again the second-largest employer, after
farming, and accounts for 20 percent of Jammu and Kashmir’s $9
billion economy, which grew 6.6 percent last year, according to
 government data . Abdullah’s administration says a prolonged calm
will see annual 10 percent growth in tourist arrivals over the
next decade.  ‘Enough Bloodshed’  “Enough bloodshed has been spilt,” said Malik at the golf
course overlooking a glistening Dal Lake. “Each year more and
more people are coming back. Let’s hope this time it lasts.”  Most of the visitors are domestic, with just 3 percent
coming from abroad in the past 12 months. Abdullah, who took
power after elections in 2008 in which 61 percent of eligible
Kashmiris voted, up from 44 percent in 2002, is pressing U.S.
and western European governments to rescind advisories against
their citizens traveling to Kashmir.  While Kashmir has seen a steady decline in violence since
U.S. President  Bill Clinton  called the region the world’s most
dangerous place in 2000 -- a year after the U.S. intervened to
restrain India and Pakistan from broadening a two-month border
conflict -- the state still resembles a war zone.  Razor Wire  Bunkers covered in razor wire, armored vehicles and police
cradling machine guns mark many crossroads in Srinagar. There
are about half a million troops and police providing security in
the state, according to Abdullah, one for every 25 civilians.  Finding a political solution to the region’s troubles has
remained bogged down in issues of faith and identity ever since
India and Pakistan gained independence from Britain. Two months
after the 1947 split from the U.K., the Hindu maharajah of Jammu
and Kashmir joined India following an invasion by tribal
militias and Pakistani troops.  Pakistan, created as a homeland for the subcontinent’s
Muslims, continues to claim the Kashmir Valley, where the
majority follow Islam. For India, the region’s membership in the
union bolsters the country’s secular credentials.  “For India and Pakistan, Kashmir is a non-negotiable
issue,” Uday Bhaskar, a New Delhi-based analyst at the National
Maritime Foundation, a research group, said Aug. 9. Still,
“separatist forces within Kashmir are not getting the kind of
support they used to get earlier. Kashmiris are becoming more
aware that peace and prosperity is possible,” he said.  Helping ‘Downtrodden’  Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, the head Muslim priest of Kashmir and
chairman of the  All Parties Hurriyat Conference , a coalition of
pro-independence parties, said the return of tourists will help
improve life for the valley’s “downtrodden” people.  “That doesn’t mean peace has returned to the valley,”
Farooq said by phone from Srinagar. “Yes people want better
education, better health care and better roads. That doesn’t
mean they don’t want freedom. The government of India should
come up with something substantial in terms of moving forward.”  Separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani says only 2 percent
to 3 percent of Kashmiris would benefit from the tourists’
return.  Geelani, whom Abdullah has blamed for provoking the 2010
violence, rejects the talks with the Indian government that
other top pro-independence politicians support. He says Kashmir
is ready to erupt again as its people remain harassed and denied
basic rights, with many who protest imprisoned and tortured.  ‘Under Occupation’  “We remain under occupation and a very brutal
occupation,” said Geelani over a cup of tea and almond biscuits
at his home in Srinagar, which he says he hasn’t been allowed to
leave for four months without being given a reason why. “There
isn’t real peace, this is a managed peace.”  Previous governments that associated a return of tourism
with an end to the uprising were caught off-guard by a
resurgence of violence, so it’s essential that a high security
presence is maintained, Abdullah said.  Tariq Ahmad Bhat, 32, embodies the challenges.  Unemployed and frustrated at what he considered a military
occupation, he joined thousands of young Kashmiris who spent
much of the summer of 2010 pelting Indian security forces with
stones after a teenager was killed by a police tear-gas shell.  Police responded with bullets, fueling a cycle of violence.
Geelani supported the demonstrations while Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  spoke of some violence being orchestrated by pro-
independence groups.  Bhat was arrested and after being released took a job
earning $120 a month ferrying tourists to houseboats on Dal Lake.
His new income hasn’t eased his anger.  “Every day we face harassment,” Bhat said, standing on
the street corner where he was detained two years ago. “Kashmir
is a tinderbox and it just takes one match for things to get out
of control again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  