-- S. Korea Unemployment Falls to 7-Month Low on Service Jobs
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-08-16T00:26:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/korea-jobless-rate-falls-to-7-month-low-as-hiring-offsets-europe.html
South Korea ’s unemployment rate
unexpectedly fell to a seven-month low on increasing numbers of
self-employed workers and service-sector jobs even as Europe’s
debt crisis dragged down exports.  The  jobless rate  was at 3.1 percent in July, compared with
3.2 percent in June, Statistics  Korea  said today in Gwacheon,
south of  Seoul . The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of 14 economists was for a rate of 3.3 percent.  The outlook for the labor market is clouded by signs that
 Asia ’s fourth-largest economy is losing steam. A decline in
exports in July was the steepest since 2009 and the central bank
said Aug. 9 that domestic demand is also weakening.  “Jobs are increasing in the service sector and the self-
employed are lifting the total number of workers, but  Europe ’s
fiscal crisis is taking a toll on company hiring,” said Sun Yoo, an economist Woori Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul.
“The quality of the job market is deteriorating with more
people taking non-salaried work.”  The won weakened 0.3 percent to 1,133.00 per dollar at the
9:00 a.m. open in Seoul and the benchmark Kospi stock index was
little changed.  The number of employed people increased by 470,000 to 25.1
million in July, with the self-employed and public services
providing 318,000 of those new jobs. The seasonally unadjusted
jobless rate was also at 3.1 percent in July, compared with 3.2
percent in June, today’s report showed.  Deepening Crisis  The  Bank of Korea  kept  borrowing costs  at a 14-month low on
Aug. 9, while saying in a statement that Europe’s debt crisis is
deepening. Gross domestic product in Asia’s fourth-largest
economy grew at the slowest pace in almost three years last
quarter.  “Job market figures have been coming in quite good, but
there are an increasing number of self-employed people earning a
small amount of income,” said Lee Min Koo, an economist at
Eugene Investment & Securities Co. Seoul. “That hidden number
not represented in the overall jobless rate will likely drag on
the domestic economy.”  South Korean manufacturers’ confidence dropped to a three-
year low for August and  consumer confidence  fell to a five-month
low in July, the central bank said last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  