-- Korea Aerospace Sale May Fail After Only Drawing Korean Air
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-08-16T08:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/korea-aerospace-stake-sale-may-fail-as-election-deters-bidders.html
Korea Aerospace Industries Ltd. (047810) 
shareholders only drew interest from  Korean Air  Lines Co. as
they seek to sell a 1.1 trillion won ($970 million) stake,
threatening to derail the process.  The shareholders extended a registration deadline until
Aug. 31 from today as they seek another potential bidder, said
an official at state-run  Korea Finance Corp. , who declined to be
identified citing company policy. They will decide whether to
proceed after that, he said. At least two bids are needed
because of rules governing sales by government entities.  Concerns about the impact of a looming presidential
election may have deterred bidders even as  North Korea ’s
militarization and rising defense spending in  emerging markets 
spur demand for Korea Aerospace’s helicopters and T-50 trainers
jets, said Justin Lee, a Seoul-based analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc. The government last month didn’t get any bids for a stake
in  Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000) , the country’s biggest financial
services group by assets.  “Extending the deadline won’t change the picture,” Lee
said. “The political situation will continue to be a burden for
the deal.”  About 1,600 workers also protested against the sale outside
Korea Finance’s offices today in  Seoul , according to the
planemaker’s biggest union.  Korean Air  Korean Air said it had registered its interest as it tries
to expand its aerospace business. The company, which already
makes parts for Airbus SAS and Boeing Co., didn’t say how much
it would offer for the Korea Aerospace stake. The sale is being
managed by  Korea Development Bank  and Credit Suisse AG.  Bidders still have until Aug. 31 to make formal offers,
Korea Finance said. The company is offering part of its 26
percent stake in Sacheon-based Korea Aerospace in the sale. It
plans to remain the second-biggest  shareholder .  Hyundai Motor
Co. (005380) , Samsung Techwin Co. and Doosan Group are each looking to
offload 10 percent holdings. The planemaker has a market value
of $2.37 billion, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The  planemaker  advanced 1.1 percent to close at 27,550 won
in Seoul. Korean Air fell 0.6 percent to 50,300 won.  Lawmakers have objected to the sale because of concerns
about transparency. Korea Finance is acting “hastily” and
placing the planemaker under private control may weaken public
accountability, Chyung Ho Joon of the Democratic United Party
said during a July 30 meeting of the National Policy Committee,
a parliamentary body that oversees Korea Finance and other
agencies.  Kim Jung Hoon of the ruling New Frontier Party also said at
the same meeting that the current administration shouldn’t rush
the sale. His colleague Park Geun Hye is leading opinion polls
ahead of the December election. President  Lee Myung Bak  will end
his five-year term in February.  Failed Attempt  Korean Air has previously been unsuccessful in buying a
stake in Korea Aerospace. The company abandoned a three-year-
long attempt to gain control of the planemaker in 2006 because
of a lack of progress. The airline generates 3.3 percent of
 revenue  making plane parts  Korea Aerospace has a limited pool of potential bidders
because national-security rules mandate that it remains under
local ownership. The South Korean military accounted for 57
percent of the company’s 1.29 trillion won sales last year.  The company also requires continued investment in order to
churn out new high-technology products, which may damp interest,
Lee said.  “Even without considering a potential political backlash,
I don’t know if there would have been enough interest,” he
said. “Whoever ends up buying the company will have to be able
to meet continuous capital-expenditure needs.”  Spending Plans  Korea Aerospace plans to spend 245.4 billion won this year,
including construction of a new plant that will make wing
components for Airbus A320 planes under a record $1.2 billion
deal signed in March. The company also supplies Boeing.  The Korean planemaker is separately working on the nation’s
first heavy fighter, after developing the  KUH-Surion helicopter 
with Eurocopter. Next year, it will begin making the FA-50, a
light combat fighter based on the T-50, which will be supplied
to the South Korean  air force .  “Fundamentally, this company has a stable earnings
structure, with most of its revenue coming from the military,”
said Paul Hah, an analyst at Woori Investment & Securities Co.
in Seoul. “Overseas sales are also looking promising.”  U.S. Contest  The company is set to bid for a $15 billion contract to
supply training jets to the U.S. The bid is in partnership with
Lockheed Martin Corp., which helped develop the T-50. Talks on
selling the trainers to  Iraq  and the  Philippines  are also under
way after the company won its first overseas order, from
 Indonesia , last year. The company lost out on an Israeli order
to Finmeccanica SpA in February.  The Korean company said in February that total orders this
year may more than double to 5.45 trillion won. Second-quarter
 net income  increased 27 percent to 44.1 billion won and sales
rose 6.6 percent to 395.5 billion won.  “Political factors are weighing down on this deal,” said
Hana Daetoo Securities Co. analyst  Thomas Lee . “Excluding that,
this is a company many would be interested in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  