-- KPN Halts Base Brand’s Sale After ‘Unsatisfactory’ Offers
-- B y   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2012-08-15T07:23:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/kpn-halts-base-brand-s-sale-after-unsatisfactory-offers.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone
company partly controlled by  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB,
halted the sale of its Belgian mobile-phone unit Base, saying
the non-binding offers it received were unsatisfactory.  The bids for the mobile-phone unit reflected the “current
difficult financial market conditions and didn’t take Base’s
strong position and outlook into account,” the Hague-based KPN
said today in a statement.  The Dutch operator, led by Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok, began a sale of Base after discussions on a potential
merger involving its E-Plus wireless unit in Germany failed.
Base may fetch 1.8 billion euros ($2.2 billion), people with
knowledge of the matter have said. KPN may need to cut its
dividend further after reducing its forecast 61 percent to 35
cents a share last month, said Jeffrey Vonk, an Amsterdam-based
analyst at  ING Groep NV. (INGA)   “We see potential for a dividend cut and or rights
issue,” Vonk wrote in an investor note. He has a hold
recommendation on KPN. The phone company’s leverage is “at the
high end of the financial framework.”  Shares Decline  KPN dropped 1.8 percent to 6.54 euros as of 9:07 a.m. in
Amsterdam. That values the company at 9.4 billion euros.  During the second quarter, KPN unsuccessfully tried to stop
Mexico City-based  America Movil  from increasing its stake in the
phone company to 28 percent. America Movil pushed through its 8
euro-a-share tender and expanded its holding in KPN for about
3.07 billion euros in June.  Mexican billionaire Slim’s America Movil is establishing
footholds in Europe as the continent’s debt crisis hurts the
value of phone companies in the region. America Movil acquired
21 percent of  Telekom Austria AG (TKA)  alongside the KPN purchase in
June.  While the unsuccessful sale is “negative,” the overall
impact isn’t “significant,”  Victor Bareno , an Amsterdam-based
analyst at SNS Securities, said in a note. He has suspended his
recommendation on KPN. “Base accounts for just 6 percent of
total enterprise value and as far as the financial condition is
concerned, the recently announced dividend cut already gives KPN
a bit more breathing space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mariajose Vera at 
 mvera1@bloomberg.net  