-- Navigating the Romney-Ryan-Obama Medicare Bedlam
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-15T23:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/navigating-the-romney-ryan-obama-medicare-bedlam-view.html
Mitt Romney  accuses U.S. President
 Barack Obama  of robbing Medicare of more than $700 billion.
Obama claims the Republican presidential candidate would end
Medicare as we know it. If you find this debate confusing, it’s
no wonder.  In the spirit of not adding more spin and demagoguery to
the bedlam, here are some important facts to keep in mind:  Much as it’s loved by seniors and revered as part of the
1960s social contract designed by President  Lyndon B. Johnson ,
Medicare can’t keep going without major reforms. It’s 11 years
away from going broke, according to the program’s  trustees . By
2022, costs will almost double, to $895 billion from $485
billion this year.  The reforms Obama and Romney offer to slow Medicare’s
escalating costs might seem like polar opposites, but they would
cut the same amount of money from the program over the long run.
The difference is in how Obama or Romney -- or Romney’s running
mate, U.S. Representative  Paul Ryan , whose Medicare plan Romney
is so far endorsing -- would “save” Medicare.  Obama’s  plan  is more government-centric. He relies on the
Affordable Care Act to do his heavy lifting. Over the next 10
years, the law lowers payments to hospitals, doctors and other
providers while empowering an advisory board to root out
unnecessary spending or ineffective treatments. The law also
creates incentives for providers to control costs themselves by
coordinating care, bundling payments and accepting payment-for-
quality versus fee-for-service.  Market-Based  Ryan’s  plan  is more market-based, more radical and longer-
term. As of 2023, he would move Medicare to a premium-support
program in which beneficiaries choose between a private plan and
traditional, fee-for-service care. All seniors would get a
subsidy large enough to cover the cost of the second-least
expensive plan in the market. To drive down costs, Ryan relies
on competition among insurers.  Some of the confusion arises because, even within the
parties, there is disagreement over how to fix Medicare and
whether it is politically feasible. In the 2010 midterm
elections, many House and Senate Republicans won their seats by
promising to repeal Obama’s health-care law, citing its Medicare
“cuts” as particularly onerous for seniors (60 percent of whom
voted for Republicans). Those cuts aren’t really cuts at all,
but reductions in projected spending, which will hit Medicare
providers, not beneficiaries.  In any case, Ryan’s Medicare plan incorporates the very
same Medicare savings -- the  Congressional Budget Office  last
month pegged this at $716 billion over 10 years -- even as Ryan
calls for repeal of the health-care law.  For its part, the Obama campaign glosses over the fact that
Medicare is running on fumes and that Ryan’s premium-support
plan wouldn’t take effect for 10 years. Anyone older than 55
would receive the traditional Medicare package seniors now have.
Even after 2022, seniors could continue to choose  old-fashioned
Medicare , although an individual’s voucher might not cover all
of the cost.  Even more misleading is Romney’s new attack ad against the
Medicare savings in the health-care law. “So now the money you
paid for guaranteed health care is going to a massive new
government program that’s not for you,” the ad says, referring
to the subsidies that the uninsured will get to purchase
coverage through exchanges. It never mentions that the law
improves Medicare by adding preventive services and filling a
hole in the prescription-drug program.  If Romney walks away from the $716 billion in Medicare
savings embedded in Ryan’s budget, as the Republican candidate
is hinting he might do, then he would have no plan at all to
slow the program’s growth in the next decade.  Medicare Advantage  Another way the Affordable Care Act lowers the Medicare
budget is by trimming payments to private insurers’ Medicare
Advantage plans, which are generally more expensive than
Medicare’s because they lack its negotiating leverage. About a
quarter of beneficiaries belong to Advantage plans, and they are
billing the government 107 percent of the cost of traditional
Medicare -- a 7 percent bonus. By eliminating the extra
payments, the health-care-reform law saves $156 billion (out of
the $716 billion).  Because Ryan’s premium-support idea builds off the
Advantage concept, there’s reason to wonder whether it would
actually save money. We just don’t know; the  Congressional
Budget Office says the plan  is so complicated it can’t tell,
though reduced access to care could result.  Democrats and Republicans agree on this much: Medicare must
be put on a diet. Both Obama and Ryan would cap annual spending
growth at gross domestic product plus 0.5 percent. From there,
it’s easy to see how the Affordable Care Act and premium support
might work hand-in-hand. If Obama’s law can push doctors to
provide more effective care, track patient progress better, use
less expensive technology and coordinate with one another more,
then consumers could have more control over their own spending,
so premium support would have a better chance of working.  Both Obama and Ryan would also guarantee a basic package of
care and provide a taxpayer subsidy that can be used to purchase
coverage on exchanges offering competing plans. But they are too
busy talking past each other to notice.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View.  Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on rejuvenating  India ’s economic
miracle;  Jonathan Alter  on  Paul Ryan’s gift  to Democrats;
 Caroline Baum  on why conservatives  don’t mind meddling  in
private affairs;  Ezra Klein  on how Ryan could be  Democrats’
worst nightmare ; Jonathan Mahler on the U.S. popularity of
 European soccer ; Adam Kirsch on the  politics of personal
destruction  in “Advise and Consent”; Russell G. Ryan on giving
the Securities and Exchange Commission  too much power .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 