-- Netflix to Enter Nordic Region to Push Deeper Into Europe
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-08-15T09:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/netflix-to-enter-nordic-region-to-push-deeper-into-europe.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the world’s largest
video-subscription service, will start operating in the  Nordic
countries , entering a region with about 25 million people and
expanding its push outside the U.S.  The online service will start offering movies and TV shows
in Norway, Denmark, Sweden and Finland before the end of 2012,
according to a statement from the  Los Gatos , California-based
company today. Netflix will offer local and global content in
the region.  Netflix, which has been streaming videos to U.S. customers
since 2007, is expanding in  Europe  as intensifying competition
weighs on growth in its home market. The time is right to push
deeper in Europe after a successful entry into the U.K. earlier
this year, and before  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Lovefilm and other
similar services become more dominant in the Nordic region, said
James Cordwell, an analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP in London.  “If you’re serious about international expansion, you
probably want to take on your biggest competitor before they get
an unassailable lead,” said Cordwell, who  rates  Netflix shares
“neutral” and doesn’t own any. “The presence of a competitor
in Scandinavia could help with initial momentum in that they
don’t have to explain the concept of streaming.”  Lovefilm, which has more than 2 million customers, already
operates in Sweden, Denmark and Norway, as well as the U.K. and
Germany. Netflix has more than 27 million streaming customers in
the U.S., Canada,  Latin America , the U.K. and Ireland. Chief
Executive Officer  Reed Hastings  said Netflix added 1 million
subscribers in the U.K. in the first 6-1/2 months.  ‘Questionable Return’  Netflix said July 24 it expects a loss in the fourth
quarter because of  costs  to expand into an unnamed European
market. Hastings has said Netflix will use profit from existing
markets to finance its international expansion. Netflix added
560,000 international subscribers during the second quarter to
bring the total to 3.62 million.  “Investors are likely to put a significant discount on the
international expansion plans given that there’s a questionable
return profile, that they’re going to be losing money for a
number of years, and it’s not clear that they’ll be able to
establish a market position,” Cordwell said. “Given where the
stock is now, it’s become increasingly well understood that
reported profits are going to be pretty much zero for the
foreseeable future.”  Netflix  rose  3.1 percent to $61.76 yesterday and has fallen
11 percent this year. The U.S. Standard and Poor’s 500 Index has
risen 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in  London  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  