-- NHL’s Bettman Says Owners, Union Face ‘Wide Gap’ on Contract
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/nhl-s-bettman-says-owners-union-remain-apart-in-contract-talks.html
National Hockey League Commissioner
Gary Bettman said a “wide gap” remains between the league and
its players’ union in negotiations on a new labor agreement.  Bettman spoke a day after the league received a proposal
from the  NHL Players’ Association  that offered to cut its share
of hockey-related revenue by as much as $800 million over the
next three seasons. The amount may be as low as $465 million,
depending on league growth, the union said.  “This is a process that we’re going to continue to work
hard on,” Bettman said yesterday in Toronto. “There’s still a
number of issues where we’re looking at the world differently.”  The union proposal maintained the cap on salaries and
increased revenue sharing to as much as $250 million a year as a
means to help less financially stable clubs.  “There were parts of it they liked and parts of it they
didn’t like,” Donald Fehr, executive director of the union,
told reporters. “That union and management see things
differently, that’s not terribly unusual. The process is to find
an agreement that you can both live with even if you come at it
from different directions.”  Two days ago, Fehr said that its plan “can produce a
stable industry and one that, going forward, can give us a
chance to move beyond the recurring labor strife that has
plagued the NHL for the last two decades.”  The two sides will meet again Aug. 22, Bettman said.  Players and the league are trying to reach agreement on a
collective bargaining agreement and avoid a work stoppage that
may affect games next season.  The current deal was reached after the 2004-05 season was
wiped out when owners shut down the league. If a new agreement
isn’t reached by Sept. 15, there’s no legal requirement for a
lockout and the league and players can continue to operate under
the old accord.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  