-- Nokia’s Junk Debt Rating Dropped Lower by S&P on Losses
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-08-15T12:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/nokia-s-junk-debt-rating-dropped-lower-by-s-p-on-losses.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s debt, already at junk
status at the three biggest rating companies, was cut two
additional steps by Standard & Poor’s as the unprofitable
mobile-phone maker loses market share and burns cash.  The long-term rating was cut to BB- from BB+, three levels
below investment grade, Standard & Poor’s said today in a
statement. The outlook for Espoo, Finland-based Nokia’s ratings
is negative, Standard & Poor’s said.  Nokia has announced more than 20,000 job cuts and shuttered
production and research sites as it tries to offset a continuing
decline in revenue. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is
relying on the Lumia smartphone running  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  software
to halt gains by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets using  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  “The rating actions reflect a downward revision of our
estimates of revenues and profitability for Nokia’s smartphone
operations in 2012 and 2013,” Standard & Poor’s said.  Nokia’s net cash may drop to less than 3 billion euros
($3.7 billion) by the end of the year from 4.2 billion euros at
the end of June, the ratings company said. Nokia has  debt  of 5.2
billion euros and lost 2.34 billion euros in the first half of
this year.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings reduced Nokia
last month.  ‘More Agile’  Nokia said the impact of the rating downgrade is “limited.”
In addition to having net cash, Nokia said it has access to a
1.5 billion-euro revolving credit facility without financial
covenants until 2016.  “As we continue our transition, we are applying a strong
focus on cash conservation while simultaneously reducing our
operating costs and making our operating model stronger and more
agile,” Timo Ihamuotila, Nokia’s chief financial officer, said
in a separate statement.  Nokia shares rose 3.4 percent to 2.08 euros at 3:55 p.m.
Helsinki time. They’ve declined 47 percent this year through
yesterday.  The company will continue to post losses as its volumes are
declining and it is forced to reduce prices to defend its market
share,  Standard & Poor’s  said. The average selling price Nokia
received for each of its flagship Lumia phones fell 15 percent
in the second quarter from the previous three months and will
drop further “in the coming quarters,” Standard & Poor’s said.  Nokia is seeking a sales boost from new Lumia handsets
based on the Windows Phone 8 operating system. The company will
introduce devices based on the program as soon as next month, a
person familiar with the matter said this month.  “We expect Nokia to launch new models, notably those based
on the Windows Phone 8 operating system, but we think it could
take some time before this can help stabilize revenues,”
Standard & Poor’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  