-- Novatek’s German Contract Price Seen at 18% Above Spot at Alfa
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-08-15T08:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/novatek-s-german-contract-price-seen-at-18-above-spot-at-alfa.html
OAO Novatek,  Russia ’s second-biggest
natural-gas producer, may be selling the fuel to  Germany ’s  EnBW
Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  at an 18 percent premium to spot
prices,  Alfa Bank  said.  “Assuming Novatek will be acquiring third-party natural
gas at spot, we believe the company will be able to monetize the
spot/contract gap,” Maria Yegikyan, a Moscow-based analyst at
Alfa Bank, wrote in a research note today.  Novatek confirmed yesterday that it signed a 10-year
contract for about 2 billion cubic meters of gas a year with
EnBW, Germany’s third-largest power supplier. It marks the first
step to a potential breakup of OAO Gazprom’s export monopoly.  The deal implies “purely commercial trading operations,”
Novatek Chief Financial Officer Mark Gyetvay said on a
conference call with investors, declining to disclose the source
of the fuel, saying Gazprom won’t act as an agent.  EnBW said on July 12 it signed a gas contract with an
unidentified foreign gas producer valued at 600 million euros
($740 million) a year. The contract covers about a third of the
company’s gas needs and will start in October, EnBW said. The
value of the deal implies a gas price of about $370 per 1,000
cubic meters.  The deal, which Gyetvay said will help Novatek create a
consumer market for its gas, won’t have “a substantial impact”
on the company’s valuation, Yegikyan said. The contract is
expected to increase Novatek’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in 2013 by “just 2 to 3
percent,” she said, adding that the gap between spot and
contract prices may converge in the long term.  “In the future, however, Novatek may replace the supplied
volumes with its own production if export rights are granted,
which we believe will eventually take place,” Yegikyan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  