-- Obama Campaign Argues Ohio Voting Law Unconstitutional
-- B y   D e n i s e   T r o w b r i d g e   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-15T15:41:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/obama-campaign-asks-court-to-equalize-ohio-early-voting-laws.html
President  Barack Obama ’s campaign
organization asked a federal judge to issue an order equalizing
the amount of time all Ohioans have to vote in advance of the
national election in November.  Under Ohio law, U.S. armed forces members and residents
living overseas are allowed to cast ballots until the day before
the Nov. 6 election, while early voting for all other Ohioans
ends four days before, a split the Obama for America campaign,
state and national Democratic parties call unconstitutional.  The case was “never about taking away the right of
military or anyone else to vote during those three days, it’s
about restoring that right to other Ohioans,” campaign attorney
Donald McTigue told U.S. District Judge Peter Economus today
during oral arguments in Columbus federal court.  As the arguments began, a Pennsylvania state court judge in
Harrisburg rejected an American Civil Liberties Union lawsuit
challenging that state’s voter identification law. The judge
ruled the civil rights group failed to prove the measure would
disenfranchise voters. The plaintiffs said they would appeal.  Ohio holds 18 of the 270 electoral college votes needed to
win a presidential election and no Republican has won without a
victory there. In 2008, Obama won the state with 51.5 percent of
the ballots cast. The judge didn’t rule during the 90-minute
hearing. Pennsylvania has 20 electoral votes.  Ohio previously had one early voting period that enabled
all voters to vote until the day before Election Day, before
legislation signed by Republican Governor  John Kasich  over the
past two years created the division. Obama and Democrats sued
Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine and Secretary of State Jon Husted last month, seeking to enjoin the law.  ‘Fundamental Right’  “There is no fundamental right to in-person early
voting,” Husted and DeWine, who are both Republicans, said in
an Aug. 1 filing opposing the injunction request. Ohio has a
rational basis for treating military and overseas voters
differently from its other eligible residents, they said.  Ohio’s curb on early voting for non-military citizens is
needed to allow local election boards to synchronize the early
balloting records with those at 9,800 polling places to prevent
people from voting twice, said Husted.  “There’s a balance we have to strike between access and
accuracy,” he said.  Ohio  attorney William Consovoy told the judge the “state
believes that there needs to be time to prep for election day,”
adding that “absentee voting is not a fundamental right.”  Obama and the Democrats disagreed, contending there’s no
distinction between otherwise-eligible voters that justifies
giving more time to one group than to another.  “Because Ohio has made those voting mechanisms available,
it cannot then deny them to some of its citizens on an arbitrary
basis,” the party and campaign said in a July 17 filing.  Fifteen fraternal military organizations on Aug. 6 won
permission from the judge to intervene on the side of the state.  The case is Obama for America v. Husted, 12-cv-00636, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denise Trowbridge in Columbus, Ohio federal court
at   dgtrowbridge@yahoo.com ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  