-- Obama Spars With Romney Over Biden’s ’Back in Chains’ Remark
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-08-16T18:59:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/obama-defends-biden-as-romney-says-remarks-show-desperation.html
Vice President  Joe Biden ’s remark
that Republican policies would put middle-income Americans
“back in chains” has touched off a partisan sparring match,
drawing a rebuke from Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  and leaving President  Barack Obama  to defend his No. 2.  Romney said the Biden comment is demeaning. Obama said the
fuss is exaggerated. And a Democratic-turned-Republican former
congressman detected racial overtones.  Obama dismissed the criticism as Romney said Biden’s
remarks take the White House campaign “another level lower.”  The president said in an interview with People magazine
that Biden was referring to Republican opposition to laws passed
to tighten regulations on banks.  “The truth is that during the course of these campaigns,
folks like to get obsessed with how something was phrased even
if everybody personally understands that’s not how it was
meant,” Obama said in the interview. Excerpts were released by
the magazine. While in Iowa the president made similar comments
on the syndicated television program “Entertainment Tonight.”  The campaigns engaged in a battle over Biden’s words as
Obama, Romney and their running mates made appeals to voters in
the handful of swing states that may decide the November
presidential election. They escalated their attacks on each
other on taxes and the government’s Medicare program, which has
moved to the center of the debate since Romney picked Wisconsin
Representative Paul Ryan as his choice for vice president.  Biden’s Remarks  Biden told a crowd in Danville,  Virginia , two days ago that
Romney would “let the big banks once again write their own
rules. Unchain  Wall Street . They’re going to put you all back in
chains.”  Former U.S. Representative Artur Davis, who is black, told
 CNN  that Biden’s words carried racial overtones.  “I know what Joe Biden was doing yesterday,” Davis, who
switched from the  Democratic Party  to the  Republican Party , told
CNN. “And every black person in that room knew who the ‘ya’ll’
was, knew what the chains were about, knew what the metaphor
was.”  Obama, the first black U.S. president, said in the People
interview that the context of Biden’s statement made clear he
was saying “you, consumers, the American people, will be a lot
worse off if we repeal these laws as the other side is
suggesting.”  “In no sense was he trying to connote something other than
that,” Obama said.  Obama Meeting  Obama met with Biden for their weekly lunch at the White
House. Press secretary  Jay Carney  reiterated that there is no
chance Obama would replace Biden on the ticket. “That was
settled a long, long time ago,” he said.  Carney said Republicans were “trying to make something out
of nothing” to distract from the debate over policy, an
accusation that both Romney and Ryan have leveled at the
president’s campaign.  ‘Troubling Course’  Romney told donors in  Charlotte , North Carolina, yesterday
that Obama has an “attack America” strategy that “is
demeaning to the presidency,” and an “unfortunate and highly
troubling course in this campaign.”  Biden’s comment, he said, “just takes the White House
another level lower.”  “I happen to think the president will do or say anything
to get elected,” Romney said at the Duke Mansion at the first
of three fundraising events in Charlotte that his finance
director,  Spencer Zwick , said would raise a total of $1.5
million.  At a campaign event in  Ohio  this week, Romney referred to
the vice president’s comment without naming Biden, calling it an
“outrageous charge.”  “This is what an angry and desperate presidency looks
like,” Romney said. Ryan, in Ohio yesterday, said Obama was
trying to run an election campaign “based on anger and
division.”  Obama campaign spokesman  Ben LaBolt  said in a statement
that Romney’s remarks “seemed unhinged.”  Medicare Debate  The rhetoric from the campaigns also sharpened over policy.
The campaigns are sparring over Medicare, the government health
program for the elderly, which is prized by senior citizens, who
vote in disproportionate numbers. The debate has devolved into a
policy-oriented round of mudslinging, with both sides
misrepresenting the other’s plans.  Ryan said he welcomed the debate over his Medicare
proposals, wading into the politically risky issue in a swing
state.  “We want this debate. We need this debate and we will win
this debate,” he told voters gathered on the campus of Miami
University in Oxford, Ohio.  The remarks, made in his only public event of the day,
marked the first time Ryan has mentioned Medicare at a campaign
event since being announced as Romney’s running mate on Aug. 11.  Standing on a small podium at his alma matter, Ryan said
Obama is raiding the program to pay for the health-care law that
passed Congress in 2010.  Long-Term Sustainability  The Romney campaign says that the $716 billion in reduced
Medicare spending over a decade used to finance the law will
undermine the long-term sustainability of Medicare.  Obama, campaigning in  Iowa , said Romney and Ryan are
“making all kinds of stuff up about my plans.”  While most of Obama’s stump speech centered on criticism of
Romney’s fiscal proposals -- referring to them as “trickle-down
snake oil” -- he has added a section on Medicare as Romney and
Ryan, chairman of the House Budget Committee, have spotlighted
it.  “I have strengthened Medicare,” Obama said in Dubuque,
Iowa. “Now, Mr. Romney and his running mate have a very
different plan. They want to turn Medicare into a voucher
program.”  The Medicare cuts Romney is focusing on include reduced
reimbursement rates to hospitals, drug companies and insurers.
Those reductions don’t affect the benefits that seniors are
guaranteed to receive under the program.  The latest version of Ryan’s plan -- and the one Romney
proposes -- would give the elderly a choice of staying in the
Medicare program or taking a subsidy to buy private insurance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in East Davenport, Iowa, at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Charlotte,  North Carolina , at  jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  