-- OGX to Recover as Bovespa Increases Weighting: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-08-15T20:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/ogx-to-recover-as-bovespa-increases-weighting-corporate-brazil.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA,
the Brazilian  oil company  that plunged to a three-year low in
June, is set for a rebound as its weighting in the Bovespa index
may more than double because of increased trading.  The energy producer’s stake in  Brazil ’s benchmark equity
gauge will likely rise to about 5.3 percent from 2.3 percent,
the biggest gain among the index’s 67 members, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The preliminary weightings, which are
based on trading volume, will be announced tomorrow and the
final change will take effect on Sept. 3.  OGX’s average daily trading  volume  surged to 168 million
shares after the company’s June 26 announcement that it cut
output targets by up to 75 percent at its first oil project,
from about 24 million shares in May. The weighting change will
fuel a rebound as funds increase holdings of the company
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista , said Luiz Otavio Broad,
an analyst at Agora CTVM SA brokerage.  “Many funds mirror the Bovespa index’s portfolio, so if
the stock’s weighting increases, demand for it also increases,”
Broad said in a telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “It can
help boost shares in the short term.”  Rio de Janeiro-based OGX declined 55 percent this year
before today, making it the worst performer on the Bovespa,
which is up 2.3 percent. The drop dragged down Batista’s mining,
logistics and energy companies on concern the enterprises, some
of which rely on OGX for revenue, will also scale back
production targets. Shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , which has
contracts with OGX, has declined 28 percent from this year’s
high on March 15.  Bovespa Rebalancing  Shares of OGX fell 3.9 percent to 5.95 reais in  Sao Paulo 
trading today. OSX declined 4.4 percent to 11.95 reais, while
the Bovespa was up 0.2 percent.  OGX last night said its loss before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization widened to 110 million reais
($54.3 million) from 107.5 million reais a year earlier. The
company was expected to report an Ebitda loss of 137.9 million
reais, the median estimate of four analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  OGX’s press office didn’t respond to an e-mail for comment.  The oil company’s weighting will likely rise further when
the Bovespa rebalances the index again as OGX consolidates its
position as Brazil’s biggest oil company behind state-controlled
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, said Rogerio Freitas, a partner at Rio
de Janeiro-based hedge fund Teorica Investimentos.  “There were a lot of people rushing to sell shares after
the target cut, which explains the volume increases,” Freitas
said in a telephone interview. “There’s also more visibility on
the company as it starts actual production after years in a pre-
operational stage. There’s more interest in the company now,
which also means more trading.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  