-- Ohio Secretary of State Sets Uniform Voting Hours for Counties
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-08-15T21:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/ohio-secretary-of-state-sets-uniform-voting-hours-for-counties.html
Ohio ’s 88 counties will have uniform
early voting hours to ensure residents casting ballots in the
presidential election are treated equally, Secretary of State
Jon Husted said.  The Ohio Democratic Party had complained that hours for
early in-person voting by absentee ballot before the Nov. 6
election were being expanded in counties that lean Republican
and not in Democratic ones, to help presumptive Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney .  Absentee voting starts 35 days before the election in Ohio,
and Husted directed that election offices remain open from 8 a.m.
to 5 p.m. for the first three weeks and until 7 p.m. on weekdays
in the final two.  “All Ohioans will vote by the same standards,” Husted, a
first-term Republican, said during a news briefing in Columbus.  Ohio,  Florida  and  Pennsylvania  are among states where
changes in voting rules by Republican-controlled legislatures
are being challenged because Democrats say they threaten
President  Barack Obama ’s re-election.  Ohio puts two Democrats and two Republicans in charge of
each county elections board, and the secretary of state breaks
tie votes.  Chris Redfern, chairman of the Ohio Democratic Party, had
said Republican election-board members were allowing extended
early-voting in several Republican-leaning counties but not in
Democratic ones -- among them the state’s two largest, Cuyahoga
and Franklin. That created 2-2 ties that Husted broke.  Voting Hordes  Redfern issued a statement in response to the directive
criticizing the secretary for eliminating the possibility of
early in-person voting on weekends. He said Republicans “have
done everything they can to limit voting access.”  Husted said he spoke with county elections officials and
concluded that expanded weeknight hours were sufficient,
considering the limited financial resources in many counties.  The Obama campaign has sued over another facet of Ohio’s
law, claiming it violates the U.S. Constitution’s guarantee of
equal protection by giving troops and certain overseas voters
three more early voting days than other Ohioans. Oral arguments
were held on that lawsuit in Columbus today.  This year, early voting in Florida, the country’s biggest
swing state, will end sooner under a new law that Democrats have
sued to block, claiming it’s likely to hurt minority-voter
turnout. And in Pennsylvania, new photo-identification rules
burden the poor and elderly, according to a challenge by the
 American Civil Liberties Union .  Ohio, the seventh-most-populous state and a battleground
with 18 electoral votes, has voted for the winner in every
presidential election since 1964. Obama won it in 2008 with 51.5
percent of the vote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  