-- Oil Gains as Supplies Decline More Than Expected
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-08-15T20:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/oil-drops-as-supplies-increase-new-york-manufacturing-shrinks.html
Oil reached a three-month high after
the Energy Department reported a decline in supply amid rising
demand and  Middle East  tension grew as three nations called on
their citizens to leave Lebanon because of a kidnapping threat.  Futures rose 1 percent as supplies dropped 3.7 million
barrels and total oil use reached the highest level in nine
months last week. Gains accelerated as  Saudi Arabia , the United
Arab Emirates and Qatar directed their citizens to avoid or
depart Lebanon.  “The bigger-than-expected draw in crude is the primary
driver of the price,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of commodities
research at IAF Advisors in Houston. “The Saudi news is fueling
speculation that any type of instability in the Middle East
could lead to oil curtailment.”  Oil for September delivery rose 90 cents to $94.33 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement
since May 14. Prices have rallied 11 percent in the second
quarter.  Brent crude  for September settlement, which expires
tomorrow, rose $2.22, or 1.9 percent, to close at $116.25 on the
London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Brent’s premium to WTI
widened $1.32 to $21.92 a barrel, a nine-month high.  Oil inventories  dropped to 366.2 million barrels, a four-
month low. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had expected a decline
of 1.5 million.  Petroleum consumption  jumped 5.7 percent to 20
million barrels a day, the most since Nov. 4, led by a 5.3
percent gain in gasoline demand.  ‘Strongest Demand’  “We are seeing some of the biggest, strongest demand for
oil in almost a year,” said Carl Larry, president of Oil
Outlooks & Opinions LLC in  New York . “It’s a significant jump,
and that’s where a lot of this oil draw comes from.”  Gasoline stockpiles  fell 2.37 million barrels to 203.7
million.  Distillate supplies , which include heating oil and
diesel, rose 677,000 to 124.2 million. The  refinery utilization
rate  was unchanged at 92.6 percent.  “The crude draw is bigger than expected so you would
expect a little bit of a bullish reaction and that’s what we’ve
got,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at
Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.  Oil has advanced 7.1 percent in August, helped by concern
that Middle East tension will disrupt supplies from a region
responsible for about one-third of the world’s oil production.  Saudi Statement  The three nations issued the warnings after reports that
the Meqdad clan, an extended family that belongs mostly to
Lebanon’s Muslim Shiite community, kidnapped more than 20
Syrians in retaliation for the abduction of one of its members
in Syria.  Saudi Arabia and Qatar have supported rebels battling
President Bashar al-Assad’s government in Syria. Many rebels are
 Sunni Muslims , while the government is dominated by members of
the Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam.  “Events like this move the market,” said Rich Ilczyszyn,
chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in Chicago.  The U.A.E., Saudi Arabia and Qatar are three of the four
Arab Gulf members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries. Kuwait is the fourth.  In Israel, dozens of people crowded in front of a
storefront at a Jerusalem shopping mall yesterday to pick up new
gas masks, part of civil defense preparations in case the
military strikes  Iran . Iran produced 2.8 million barrels a day
of oil in July, Energy Department data show.  “The Middle East is the main reason that’s keeping  oil
prices  higher,” said  James Williams , an economist at WTRG
Economics, an energy-research firm in London,  Arkansas . “There
is a clear debate going on in Israel on whether or not they
should attack Iran.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 684,780
contracts as of 3:11 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 469,180
contracts yesterday, 14 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.47 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Margot Habiby at 
 mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  