-- Oil Gains as Supplies Decline More Than Expected
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i   a n d   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-08-16T12:51:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/oil-gains-as-supplies-decline-more-than-expected.html
Oil traded near the highest close
since May after U.S. stockpiles dropped to the lowest in four
months and China signaled it may take more steps to boost growth
in the world’s second-biggest economy.  Futures extended gains, rising as much as 0.6 percent,
after climbing 1 percent yesterday. Crude supplies shrank 3.7
million barrels and total fuel use reached the highest level in
nine months last week, the  Department of Energy  said in a
report. Slowing inflation gives China more room to adjust
monetary policy, Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said, according to
state media. The number of Americans filing applications for
 unemployment benefits  was little changed last week, Labor
Department figures showed today in Washington.  “There was a huge jump yesterday after the U.S. oil
inventories were published, with the price not just driven by
falling inventories but demand increasing markedly,” Thina Saltvedt, analyst at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in Oslo, said by phone
today. “Any movement in the oil price today must be on the
political side, especially anything relating to Iran.”  Oil for September delivery gained 42 cents to $94.75 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 1:47 p.m. in London. It earlier rose as much as 52 cents, or
0.6 percent. Yesterday’s close at $94.33 was the highest since
May 14. Prices are down 4.1 percent this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement, which expires today,
rose 18 cents to $116.43 after climbing 2 percent yesterday on
the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The more actively
traded October contract was at $114.57. Brent’s premium to WTI
was $21.68 a barrel after closing yesterday at $21.92, the
highest since October.  Inventory Drawdown  Crude inventories  dropped to 366.2 million barrels, a four-
month low. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast a decline
of 1.5 million.  Petroleum consumption  jumped 5.7 percent to 20
million barrels a day, the most since Nov. 4, led by a 5.3
percent gain in gasoline demand.  Gasoline stockpiles  fell 2.37 million barrels to 203.7
million.  Distillate supplies , which include heating oil and
diesel, rose 677,000 to 124.2 million. The  refinery utilization
rate  was unchanged at 92.6 percent.  “One of the drivers would have been the continued drawdown
in U.S. inventories,” said  David Lennox , a resource analyst at
Fat Prophets in Sydney. Data from China showing easing inflation
“does give them the opportunity to stimulate their internal
demand and that would have potential to push up  oil prices .”  Strike Iran  Israel would be willing to strike Iran, even if doing so
only delayed its ability to produce nuclear weapons for a few
years, Israeli Ambassador to the U.S.  Michael Oren  said
yesterday. The country’s leaders have stressed this month that
time is running out for a diplomatic solution to the nuclear
program that it regards as an existential threat.  The escalating conflict in Syria should increase the oil
 risk premium  for the country, according to Petromatrix GmbH.  Persian Gulf states  urged their citizens to leave Lebanon
after kidnapping threats were made against them following the
abduction of a Lebanese man in Syria, raising concern that the
Syrian crisis was spilling across borders.  “We were focusing on the north of Syria with our concern
that the next supply disruption will be in the Bay of Iskenderun
rather than in the  Strait of Hormuz ,”  Olivier Jakob , managing
director at Switzerland-based Petromatrix, said today in an e-
mailed report. “Yesterday, oil markets priced a higher risk
premium for Syria but for developments to the South (Lebanon)
rather than to the North (Turkey).”  Middle East  Concern that  Middle East  tension would disrupt supplies
from a region responsible for about one third of the world’s
crude production helped oil advance 7.1 percent in August.  Tropical Storm Gordon formed in the North Atlantic to
become the seventh named storm of the year. The system was
located about 585 miles (940 kilometers) east of Bermuda, where
it’s currently no threat to land, according to the U.S. National
Hurricane Center in Miami.  The system has top winds of 40 miles per hour and is moving
north-northeast at 14 mph, the agency said in an  advisory 
shortly before 5 a.m.  New York  time yesterday.  Seven named storms have formed this year including
Hurricane Ernesto, which struck Mexico last week, killing at
least two people and causing widespread flooding. The Atlantic
season runs from June 1 to Nov. 30 and U.S. forecasters expect
12 to 17 storms to form in the basin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  