-- Oil Declines in New York Amid Signs of Higher U.S. Supply
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-15T11:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/oil-declines-in-new-york-amid-signs-of-higher-u-s-supply.html
Crude oil in New York slipped from
the highest close in a week amid signs that supplies are
increasing in the U.S., the world’s largest consumer.  West Texas Intermediate futures dropped as much as 0.7
percent. Crude inventories rose 2.78 million barrels last week
to 367.1 million, the  American Petroleum Institute  said
yesterday. This contrasts with forecasts for Energy Department
data due later today. The department may report that stockpiles
fell by 1.5 million barrels, according to a Bloomberg News
 survey . North Sea Brent traded at a premium of more than $20 a
barrel to WTI for a fourth day.  “High inventories, high imports, anemic demand” are
weighing on WTI, said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities
research in Frankfurt at Commerzbank AG, who predicts U.S. crude
may slide further.  Oil for September delivery traded at $93.11, down 32 cents,
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 12:39 p.m. London time.
It earlier dropped to $92.77. The contract advanced 70 cents
yesterday to $93.43, the highest settlement since Aug. 7. Prices
are down 6 percent this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement, which expires
tomorrow, was at $113.70 a barrel, down 33 cents, on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It rose 43 cents yesterday to
$114.03. The more-active October contract slipped 16 cents to
$111.99 a barrel.  The European benchmark contract’s premium to  New York 
futures was at $20.64, compared with a close of $20.60
yesterday.  U.S. Supply  U.S. crude supply rose as imports increased for a second
week, gaining 5.3 percent to 9.4 million barrels a day, the
highest since the week of July 20, the API data showed.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines and
its weekly report is published after futures prices settle each
Tuesday. The government requires that reports be filed with the
Energy Department for its weekly survey, which is due at 10:30
a.m. in Washington.  Today’s Energy Department report may show  stockpiles 
decreased by 1.5 million barrels, or 0.4 percent, to 368.4
million in the seven days ended Aug. 10, according to the median
of 10 analyst estimates. That would be the least since April 6.
All 10 respondents forecast a decline in the Bloomberg survey,
speculating that tropical storm weather in the  Gulf of Mexico 
reduced imports at a time when U.S. refinery utilization held
near a five-year high.  Israeli Gas Masks  Tension with Iran over its nuclear program may still be
solved with diplomacy, U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said
yesterday. The Persian Gulf nation is the third-largest oil
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  The “window is still open” for diplomacy, Panetta said
yesterday following comments earlier this month from Israeli
officials that time has almost run out to avert military
strikes. The U.S., concerned that a conflict could destabilize
the  Middle East  and send  oil prices  higher, has been urging
Israel to exercise caution.  Dozens of Israelis crowded in front of a storefront at a
Jerusalem shopping mall yesterday to pick up new gas masks, part
of civil defense preparations in case the military strikes Iran
and the Islamic Republic or its allies retaliate.  Average U.S. gasoline pump prices were at a 12-week high as
of Aug. 13 after climbing 11 percent in the previous six weeks,
according to AAA, the nation’s largest motoring organization.  The biggest two-week gain in 17 months could turn fuel
costs into a battleground again for President  Barack Obama  and
Republican  Mitt Romney  in the Nov. 6 election, according to
 Harry Tchilinguirian , head of commodity-markets strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  