-- Holcim Shakes Up Management as CEO Unveils Leadership
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-08-15T12:01:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/holcim-shakes-up-management-as-ceo-unveils-leaner-top-structure.html
Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  announced a management
shake-up under new Chief Executive Officer Bernard Fontana and
said the Swiss cement maker may need to further streamline its
business in Europe to stem falling demand.  Holcim will introduce a “leaner and more efficient”
structure, including a new head of Europe, as of Sept. 1, it
said today. The cement maker also cut its outlook for the region
as it reported second-quarter earnings, predicting a contraction
for 2012 after previously anticipating a stable development.  “When the market goes so low you need to adapt your
cost,” Fontana, who took over in February, said on a conference
call.  Spain , Italy and  Bulgaria  suffered the steepest volume
declines, he said.  Holcim dropped the most in 3 weeks, as its European outlook
mirrored that of Dublin-based building-materials maker  CRH Plc (CRH) ,
which said yesterday that it is advancing a cost-cutting program
as European sales drop faster than anticipated. Holcim cut
almost a third of employees in Spain in July, as it battles
overcapacity in southern Europe.  “Trade unions understand that the economic situation in
some parts of Europe is really difficult,” Chief Financial
Officer Thomas Aebischer said in an interview, adding that
dialog with worker representatives “will continue”. Holcim
looks at capacity utilization and the profitability of units
when taking decisions on restructuring, Fontana and Aebsicher
said.  Holcim fell as much as 3 percent to 58.20 Swiss francs and
traded at 59.80 francs as of 1:49 p.m. in Zurich. The drop was
the biggest since July 23, valuing Holcim at about 19.51 billion
Swiss francs.  Management Shake-Up  A building slump in  Europe , which accounted for 29 percent
of Holcim’s sales in 2011, means cement makers are in the midst
of restructuring their units in that region, including headcount
reductions and plant closures.  Second-quarter net income at Holcim rose 9.2 percent from a
year earlier to 379 million Swiss francs ($389 million). The
gain was Holcim’s first in five consecutive quarters. Sales rose
2 percent to 5.6 billion francs, below the 5.7 billion-franc
average estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  As part of the changes announced today, three managers will
leave the executive committee and Urs Bleisch has been promoted
to head Fontana’s “Holcim Leadership Journey”.  Holcim will bundle several European divisions into one unit
led by Roland Koehler, who is now CEO of Holcim Group Support
Ltd. Bernard Terver, who leads Holcim’s U.S. businesses, will
join the executive committee. Executive Committee members
Benoit-H. Koch, responsible for  North America , the U.K.,  Norway 
and the Mediterranean, and Patrick Dolberg, responsible for
Western and central Europe, will leave the company.  Reshuffle  Urs Boehlen, member of the executive Committee and
currently responsible for Eastern and Southeastern Europe, CIS,
will step down and act as an adviser to Fontana until his
retirement in 2013.  “Holcim has taken out a layer of executives in Europe,”
Ian Osburn, an analyst at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, said by
phone. “This is Fontana taking much more direct control of the
business.”  Holcim will increase operating profit by at least 1.5
billion francs by the end of 2014 by cutting energy consumption,
supply chain costs, and introducing measures to improve customer
loyalty, Fontana said in May.  The company said today it expects better than previously
forecast growth in North America and reiterated its target of
total organic growth in operating earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization this year.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  and  Lafarge SA (LG)  both beat analyst
estimates for the second quarter and have followed Holcim in
announcing cost cuts, with Lafarge pledging an additional 1
billion euros ($1.2 billion) of asset sales to reduce debt.  The Swiss company is the only major cement maker to have
retained its investment grade credit rating. Fontana is seeking
to preserve the rating as he faces the risk of antitrust fines
from regulators in  Brazil  and  India  and the slowdown in Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  