-- Homebuilder Confidence in U.S. Increases to Five-Year High
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-15T14:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/homebuilder-confidence-in-u-s-increases-to-five-year-high-1-.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
climbed in August to the highest level in more than five years,
affirming the improvement in residential construction.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
builder confidence index rose to 37, higher than projected and
the best showing since February 2007, according to figures from
the Washington-based group released today. The  median  forecast
in a Bloomberg survey of economists called for no change from
July’s 35. Readings below 50 mean more respondents said
conditions were poor.  Builders such as  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)  are benefiting as less-
expensive properties and record-low  mortgage rates  entice
buyers. At the same time, faster hiring and fewer foreclosures
are needed to bring about bigger gains for the industry that
precipitated the worst recession in the post-World War II era.  “The outlook appears to be brightening,” Barry Rutenberg,
chairman of the NAHB and a builder from Gainesville,  Florida ,
said in a statement. At the same time, “there is still much
room for improvement.”  Other reports today showed production at factories, mines
and utilities climbed more than forecast in July, and consumer
prices were unexpectedly little changed.  Stocks Climb  Shares rose as the figures showed the world’s largest
economy was sustaining the recovery that began in June 2009. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.2 percent to 1,406.14 at
10:08 a.m. in  New York . The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding
Index advanced 0.8 percent.  Estimates for the builder sentiment index of 46 economists
in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 31 to 38. The gauge, which
was first published in January 1985, averaged 54 in the five
years leading to the recession that started in December 2007. It
reached a record low of 8 in January 2009.  The builders group’s index of present single-family home
sales climbed to 39 this month from 36 in July and a measure of
sales expectations for the next six months rose to 44 from 43.
Both gauges reached the highest level since 2007. The index of
buyer  traffic  increased to 31, the highest since May 2006, from
the prior month’s 28.  The survey asks builders to characterize current sales as
“good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective buyers’
traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook for the
next six months.  Regional Breakdown  Confidence improved among builders in two of the four U.S.
regions, led by the Midwest, where it rose to 42, the highest
level since October 2005, from 33 the prior month. The South
reported an increase to 35 from 33. The sentiment index fell to
25 from 34 in the North, and declined to 40 from 43 in the West.  The report “provides further evidence of the gradual
strengthening that’s occurring in many housing markets,”  David Crowe , the association’s chief economist, said in a statement.  PulteGroup, the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, posted
a better-than-estimated profit and a 32 percent jump in orders
in the second quarter, the company said July 26.  With cheaper mortgage rates and homes, “we are very
optimistic about housing demand,”  Richard Dugas , Pulte’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said on a July 26
conference call with analysts. “That being said, we are keeping
a watchful eye on the macro trends, which ultimately need to
turn more positive for the recovery to expand further.”  Home-improvement retailer  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  is also
benefiting. The Atlanta-based company yesterday reported second-
quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates and raised its
forecast for profit this year as customers spent more on
remodeling projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 