-- London Cable Car Lauded by Arnie Seeks ‘Flyers’ as Olympics Fade
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-08-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/london-cable-car-lauded-by-arnie-seeks-flyers-as-olympics-fade.html
London’s  cross-Thames cable car ,
which lured 20,000 visitors a day at the height of the Olympics,
faces a struggle to sustain passenger levels with the games over
and the subway offering a cheaper way of spanning the river.  The 63 million-pound ($99 million) mechanism reaped a surge
in traffic during London 2012 thanks to its position between two
of the main venues. Prior to the Olympics it carried about 9,700
passengers a day, less than 15 percent of capacity.  London Mayor  Boris Johnson  touted the cable car as the
“latest addition” to the U.K. capital’s transport network when
he took  Arnold Schwarzenegger  for a trip on Aug. 12. While the
California governor praised the views from 90 meters (295 feet)
above the Thames, locals say the ride’s location more than 5
miles from the city center means it will struggle to win
passengers as days shorten and tourist numbers dwindle.  “Before the games we did have customers from the cable
car, but only at weekends and when the weather was good,” said
Ellen Chung, 26, duty manager at a supermarket near the southern
terminal, who has yet to take a trip. “Friends of mine who live
in the area have tried it once, and only for entertainment.”  The cable car runs from the O2 arena, which staged the
Olympic gymnastics, basketball and trampoline contests, 1.1
kilometers north to the ExCel center, host to the boxing, judo,
fencing, wrestling, table tennis, taekwondo and weightlifting.  Quiet Morning  “It’s going to be an issue once the novelty has gone,”
said real-estate manager David McCullach, 63, before his first
trip on the cable car. “Where people live and where they work,
that’s what you have to connect. Time is important as well.”  Even during the games only about 150 people were observed
using the gondola between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m., the  London  rush-
hour peak, most of them families. Five hours later after the
start of the day’s Olympic events, during a visit scheduled by
Transport for London, which runs the cable car, five-minute
lines had formed as people transited between games venues.  The number of people using the cable car is
“encouraging,” operations manager Danny Price said in an
interview, with passenger levels likely to be sustained by work-
related travel and the 8 million annual visitors to the ExCel
and O2 sites.  “I do accept there’ll be a tourist market that perhaps may
look to the summer season, but the commuters are going to be
there in the winter and the conference center is as busy in the
winter as in the summer,” he said. “The O2 is equally as
busy.”  Costlier Option  Still, the U.K. attracts 24 percent fewer visitors from
October through March than in the summer, with trips about 40
percent shorter, Office for National Statistics figures show.  Simon Baker, 26, a computer technician who spoke after his
first trip on the cable car, said there’s little likelihood that
people will use it daily to cross such a short distance.  “You don’t go to a convention at the ExCel and then leave
for a concert in Greenwich on a regular basis,” said Baker, who
had traveled to London from Peterborough, eastern  England .  The cost of a single cable car trip -- 4.30 pounds -- would
also fund travel anywhere within zones 1 to 3 of the subway
network or Tube, stretching from Ealing in the west to Beckton
in the east, a distance of more than 15 miles.  Price said the attraction may prove popular in the winter
for its panoramas of night-time London, with opening hours
successfully extended in recent weeks to permit viewing after
dark. The cost of a journey also compares well with the 17-pound
fee for 30 minutes on the London Eye, which lures 3.5 million
visitors annually, though the big wheel is boosted by its
position across the Thames from the Houses of Parliament.  Frequent Flyers  “The cable car might be cheap for tourists, but it’s
expensive for commuting,” said Sam Scott, 34, a video-game
programmer who lives locally and hasn’t yet used the system.  Costs come down to 1.60 pounds if customers invest in 10-
journey “Frequent Flyer” tickets, though only 534 were sold in
the first month of operation, according to TfL. Oyster-card
holders are charged 3.20 pounds, falling to 1.60 pounds for one
week if five trips or more are made in the previous seven days.  TfL paid 27 million pounds for the cable car, which will be
operated by its builder, Mace Group, for three years. The local
transport body, overseen by Mayor Johnson -- who on meeting
Schwarzenegger asked if the actor had ever wrestled someone in a
gondola -- expects to recoup its outlay via ticket sales and an
application for 8 million pounds of European Union funds.  Dubai-based Emirates, the No. 1 carrier by international
traffic, provided 36 million pounds in a 10-year sponsorship
deal. Under the accord, the cable car is known as the Emirates
Air Line and appears on London’s iconic subway map by that name.  While the aim is for the ride to break even “over a
reasonable period time,” it’s too early to say when that will
be and targets will be reassessed once normal volumes of use
have been more clearly established, Price said.  Baker, the IT technician, said following his trip on the
cable car that the project has cost “a crazy amount of money”
that probably won’t be clawed back.  “It is empty right now,” he said. “So I can’t see it
being profitable and I wonder where it will be five years from
now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at   rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  