-- Hong Kong Air Reviews A380s After Scrapping London Flights
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-08-16T08:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/hong-kong-air-reviews-a380-order-after-scrapping-london-flights.html
Hong Kong Airlines, holder of the
biggest backlog of Airbus SAS A380 orders in Asia, said it’s
reviewing plans to add the superjumbos after scrapping its only
intercontinental route.  The fate of the 10-plane order will be decided “based on
our future development and the market situation,” President
Yang Jianhong told reporters in Hong Kong yesterday. He didn’t
give a timeframe for the decision or say whether talks with
Airbus were under way.  The carrier, whose fleet size has also been limited by Hong
Kong’s regulator, has changed its strategy to focus on serving
Asian routes with smaller A320s and A330s, Yang said. The
airline is halting its all-business-class service to London’s
Gatwick Airport after less than a year as it struggled to lure
passengers from  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  amid a slowing
corporate-travel market.  “Given the current high fuel prices and uncertain demand
in the market, it is probably not the best time for any airline
to expand aggressively,” said Jim Wong, a Hong Kong-based
transport analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. Cathay Pacific will
continue to dominate the local market, unless there is a
significant easing of access rules, he said.  Cathay Pacific rose 2 percent to HK$13.06, the highest
level in about a month, at close of Hong Kong trading today. The
city’s benchmark Hang Seng Index fell 0.5 percent.  Regional Services  Hong Kong Air’s regional services are “performing well,”
Yang said. Its passenger numbers rose 33 percent in the first
seven months of the year to 1.97 million.  First-half profit fell 50 percent, Yang said, without
elaborating. Cathay Pacific, the city’s biggest carrier, swung
to a loss in the period on a cargo slump and higher fuel prices.  Hong Kong Air also delayed the arrival of six  Boeing Co. (BA) 
777 freighters, previously scheduled to start next year, until
at least the middle of 2014, Vice President Sun Jianfeng said
yesterday. Deliveries of A380s may start as early as 2013, Hong
Kong Air said in November.  There’s no change in the carrier’s Airbus orders, said Sean Lee, a Singapore-based spokesman for the planemaker.  The airline also postponed a planned initial public
offering beyond year-end because of the market slowdown and the
possibility of a combination with affiliate Hainan Airlines
Ltd., Yang said.  Parent HNA Group will continue to support Hong Kong Air,
said Chen Wenli, board director at the Hainan province-backed
investment company.  Discussions with Airbus about the A380 order aren’t at an
advanced stage, Chen said yesterday, when asked whether HNA will
consider transferring the 10-plane order to other airlines in
the group.  A380 Backlog  Airbus had a total of 177 outstanding orders for A380s at
the end of last month, according to data on its website. That
includes five from  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  that were delayed
beyond 2016 because of losses at the Indian carrier.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , the biggest Asia-Pacific customer for
the A380, received 12 of the 20 superjumbos it ordered by the
end of last month. Singapore Airlines Ltd. had taken delivery of
18 of its 19 planes.  Hong Kong Air operates a fleet of 26 planes. It intends to
phase out its Boeing Co. 737s as it switches to an all-Airbus
passenger fleet, according to a statement.  Hong Kong’s Civil Aviation Department said Aug. 2 it had
limited the carrier’s fleet because the airline needed time to
“catch up” following expansion. There are no safety concerns,
and the carrier can continue flying its existing fleet, the
regulator said.  The limit may be lifted as soon as the carrier demonstrates
that it has enough equipment, staffing and other resources to
support a larger operation, the regulator said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  