-- Lonmin Worker Turnout ‘Low’ After 10 Killed at Mine
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-08-15T17:19:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/lonmin-worker-turnout-low-after-10-killed-at-mine.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI)  employees turned out in
“low” numbers at the Marikana mining complex in  South Africa  a
day before a company ultimatum for striking miners to return to
work and after clashes left 10 dead, including two policemen.  Turnout is “still very low,” Barnard Mokwena, the
executive vice president of human capital at the world’s third-
biggest platinum producer, said by phone today.  Most Lonmin mines are running on essential services, the
company said yesterday, with production severely disrupted since
Aug. 10 by an illegal strike, followed by riots and shootings at
Marikana in North West province. It produced 96 percent of the
company’s platinum group metals in concentrate in 2011. Lonmin
plans to issue an ultimatum to about 4,200 rock-drill operators
to return to work by tomorrow, Mokwena said yesterday.  South African mines are being rocked by a deadly turf war
as the Association of Mining and Construction Union recruits
workers in an effort to break the grip on the industry of the
dominant  National Union of Mineworkers .  Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd. (IMP)  halted its operations at Rustenburg, the world’s biggest
platinum mine, for six weeks as the unions battled for control.  Union Rivalry  Lonmin said Aug. 14 union rivalry was behind incidents at
its Western mine, part of the Marikana operations.  Two security guards were killed at Western, an employee was
hacked to death on his way to work and another found dead with
five gunshot wounds. Two police were killed and one critically
injured, while three suspects died, in a protest at a hostel.
Another body was discovered in the area yesterday, police said.  There were still as many as 3,000 people gathered at a
rocky outcrop on the outskirts of Marikana this evening, police
spokesman Dennis Adriao said.  “Our concern is that they have weapons,” including sticks
and knives, he said by phone. Both unions have addressed the
gathering, Adriao said.  Lonmin and the unions say they haven’t received a list of
demands from workers.  The AMCU plans to boost its membership at Lonmin to a level
where it gets the legal right to bargain with management over
conditions. The union needs to recruit more than 35 percent of
skilled and semi-skilled workers, Abey Kgotle, Lonmin’s
executive manager of external affairs, said yesterday. It has
5,000 members, or 21 percent of employees at Lonmin, while the
NUM represents more than 12,000 of a total of 28,000, he said.  The NUM, with about 300,000 members, is the biggest
affiliate of the Congress of South African Trade Unions. Cosatu
helped South African President  Jacob Zuma  oust his predecessor.  Job Losses  Conflict at mines in South Africa, producer of more than
three-quarters of the world’s platinum, is hitting companies’
profit, already undermined by a slump in international prices
and a global supply surplus that Stanlib Collective Investments
Ltd. fund manager Kobus Nell estimates at more than 500,000
ounces this year. Producers have cut  capital spending  and closed
mines as increases in labor and power costs outpace inflation.  The government, concerned job losses will add to the 25.2
percent unemployment rate, is seeking ways to help the industry.  Mines Minister Susan Shabangu condemned the violence.  Platinum has declined 23 percent over the past 12 months,
trading at $1,394.75 an ounce by 4:41 p.m. in  London .  Price Decline  Lonmin retreated for a third day, losing 1.9 percent to 695
pence and taking its drop in the past five days to 8.4 percent,
by the close in London and making it the worst performer on the
 FTSE All-Share Mining Index (FAMNG)  in the period after Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp., which has lost 11 percent.  “I suspect that the production loss so far has not been
that significant,” Edward Sterck, an analyst at BMO Capital
Markets Ltd., said by phone from London. “The irony is that
these production disruptions reduce supply. I’m sure they are
doing nothing for the unit costs of the producers but in terms
of supply for the market, maybe in the mid-term, it will improve
the price outlook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  