-- Moore Leads Funds Avoiding ’Dead Money’ in JPMorgan Stake
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-08-15T21:49:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/moore-leads-funds-avoiding-dead-money-in-jpmorgan-stake.html
Moore Capital Management LLC, the
hedge fund that had boosted its  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  investment
earlier this year, joined other firms in selling the bank’s
shares following a multibillion-dollar trading loss.  Moore, the $15 billion New York-based firm run by Louis Moore Bacon, sold its full JPMorgan holding of about 6.47
million shares in the second quarter, according to a filing
yesterday with the Securities and Exchange Commission. TPG-Axon
Management LP, the $4 billion fund run by  Dinakar Singh , sold
its stake of 3.13 million shares.  JPMorgan stakes held by  hedge funds , mutual funds and other
asset managers with at least $100 million in U.S listed equities
shrank by $28.7 billion to $89.8 billion in the second quarter,
the biggest position decrease among all U.S. equities in the
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Firms sold a
net 65.5 million shares in the period after the New York-based
bank disclosed a trading loss that has grown to at least $5.8
billion and its stock slumped 22 percent.  The hedge-fund sales are “a reflection of the fact that at
least for the near term, it’s dead money,” said  Nancy Bush , an
analyst and contributing editor at SNL Financial LC, a research
firm based in Charlottesville, Virginia. “We’re only a couple
months into this process so we have at least several more months
of this playing out. You just don’t know what the collateral
damage is going to be.”  ‘Penalty Box’  JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, initially
called the trade a “tempest in a teapot” before the bank said
it had found “material weakness” in its internal controls and
financial reporting. The lender is being investigated by at
least 11 state, federal and international enforcement bodies,
the company said in an Aug. 9 regulatory filing.  The stock has settled into a range and isn’t likely to
break out until more legal and regulatory repercussions are
known, Bush said. “When you get into the penalty box,
particularly when you surprise your regulator, it’s not a good
thing,” she said.  JPMorgan fell 3 cents to close at $37.07 in New York. Its
market value has declined by about $28 billion since Bloomberg
News reported April 5 that the bank had built up a large and
illiquid position in  credit derivatives .  Moore Capital ’s move is a reversal from the first quarter
when it bought 6 million shares to make JPMorgan its largest
U.S. stock holding, according to filings.  Acquiring JPMorgan  Others selling a JPMorgan stake included  George Soros ’s
Soros Fund Management LLC, which disposed of 606,000 shares, and
Owl Creek Asset Management LP, the New York-based fund founded
by Jeffrey Altman, which sold 2.94 million, filings show.  Highfields Capital Management LP, the Boston-based hedge
fund run by Jonathon Jacobson, sold 2 million shares, ending the
quarter with 7.36 million.  Leon Cooperman ’s Omega Advisors Inc.
sold 1.43 million shares, retaining almost 791,000.  Some investors were buyers. London-based Odey Asset
Management Ltd., run by  Crispin Odey , added to its holdings in
JPMorgan, Wells Fargo & Co. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , making the
lenders its three largest U.S. stock holdings at the end of the
period. The hedge fund purchased more than 645,000 shares of
JPMorgan, lifting its position to 3.04 million shares.  Capital Growth Management LP, the firm run by Kenneth Heebner, who ranked as America’s No. 1 stock picker before
losing most of his main fund’s assets, added 3 million JPMorgan
shares.  John Paulson ’s Paulson & Co. held 4 million shares as of
June 30 after reducing its holdings of JPMorgan warrants in the
quarter. The filing doesn’t indicate whether Paulson exercised
the warrants to accumulate the shares.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman
for the New York-based hedge fund, declined to comment.  Share Sales  Hedge funds soured on other banks as financial companies
lost  7.3 percent  in the second quarter.  At least one firm exited its investment in Citigroup in the
second quarter as the New York-based bank retreated from plans
to disburse more capital to shareholders. Citigroup, led by CEO
Vikram Pandit, 55, said in a June 8 statement that it won’t seek
permission to increase 2012 payouts.  Viking Global Investors LP, run by Andreas Halvorsen in New
York, sold 8.45 million Citigroup shares while  Bill Ackman ’s
Pershing Square Capital Management LP sold 25 million, ending
June with 1.1 million. Moore Capital also sold its stakes in
Wells Fargo and U.S. Bancorp.  David Tepper ’s Appaloosa Management LP sold more than 3.5
million shares of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-largest U.S.
bank, and Omega Advisors divested almost 6.5 million.  For JPMorgan, the risks remain, said Bush. Dimon ousted
traders and managers and overhauled the ranks of senior
executives after disclosing the trading losses in May.  “The biggest risk is that they can’t deliver the
earnings,” Bush said. “Does this make the company have to
essentially change their appetite for risk and does that change
their earning ability?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  