-- Morgan Stanley Unit Fined Over Trader’s $1.3 Billion Bet
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-08-15T23:54:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/morgan-stanley-unit-fined-over-trader-s-1-3-billion-bet.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney, the
brokerage venture of Morgan Stanley and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , was
fined $450,000 after a trader amassed a $1.3 billion bet in
2009, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority records show.  The brokerage didn’t have enough controls in place to
detect that Jared Weinryt, 31, had breached his $116 million
trading limit as he made overnight bets on futures, Finra 
said this month. The trades led to losses for Morgan Stanley 
Smith Barney of about $14.9 million, according to Finra.  Regulators are pressing  Wall Street  to heighten risk
controls after multibillion-dollar trading losses at UBS AG and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) 
after a $6.3 billion bet on European debt, and  Knight Capital
Group Inc. (KCG) ’s $270 million loss caused by faulty software.  Morgan Stanley Smith Barney “detected the trading activity
by a former employee that occurred three years ago, stopped it
promptly, reported it to regulators, and has since added new
controls designed to prevent a reoccurrence,” Christine Jockle,
a spokeswoman for the unit, said in an e-mailed statement.  The brokerage employed Weinryt from 2006 to 2009, Finra
records show. He bought and sold futures, agreements to trade
assets at set prices and dates. Investors sometimes buy futures
as a bet on price fluctuations and sell them before the delivery
date. Weinryt traded in futures tied to U.S. sovereign debt and
Eurodollars, according to Finra.  Market Turned  Weinryt’s futures bets totaled about $744 million at the
end of the trading day on July 14, 2009, exceeding his $116
million limit, according to a document posted on Finra’s
website. His bets swelled to about $1.33 billion as he continued
trading overnight, the document shows.  The market turned against Weinryt the next morning and he
tried to reduce the bets, incurring losses, according to Finra.
The brokerage cut off Weinryt’s access to the trading system in
late morning on July 15 and liquidated the contracts by the next
day. Total losses were $14.9 million, Finra said.  The industry regulator suspended Weinryt from trading for
two months and fined him $7,500 earlier this year, records show.
He consented to the sanctions without admitting or denying the
findings, according to Finra. Weinryt declined to comment.  He now works in the institutional fixed-income sales
division of  Palm Beach Gardens , Florida-based Kiley Partners
Inc., which trades securities including municipal bonds, U.S.
government bonds and corporate debt.  “We were delighted to have an opportunity to employ a
smart and talented employee like Jared Weinryt,” Chief
Executive Officer Michael Kiley said yesterday in a phone
interview. He “does a great job for us and his clients.”  Morgan Stanley owns 51 percent of the Smith Barney
brokerage, which has more than 17,000 advisers and $1.74
trillion in client assets. Citigroup, the third-largest U.S.
lender, owns the rest and is in the process of selling an
additional 14 percent stake to Morgan Stanley. Both banks are
based in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 