-- Mortgage Bond Market Dwindles to Aid Fed Punch: Credit Markets
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-08-15T16:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/mortgage-bond-market-dwindles-to-aid-fed-punch-credit-markets.html
The market for mortgage securities
backed by the U.S. government is the smallest in three years,
bolstering the value of the debt and potentially expanding the
effects of any new buying by the  Federal Reserve .  The outstanding amount of  Fannie Mae , Freddie Mac and
Ginnie Mae mortgage-backed securities shrank to $5.24 trillion
in July, about the lowest since July 2009, following a $34
billion decline from March, according to Bank of America Corp.
data. The market has receded by $150 billion from its 2010 peak.  The contraction, a legacy of the worst U.S. property  boom-
and-bust  in 80 years, is deepening even as housing improves
after a six-year slump and the corporate  bond market  expands.
New borrowing is being curtailed by lower home values, fewer new
households and buyers using more cash, while outstanding debt is
being erased by defaults and homeowners paying down their loans.  “All that translates into this scramble to buy” even as
the securities reached record prices, said  David Land , a  money
manager  at  St. Paul , Minnesota-based Advantus Capital Management
Inc., which oversees about $23 billion. “It’ll be even more
acute if the Fed comes in and they start buying.”  The shrinkage contributed to a narrowing last week to a
six-month low in the gap between a Bloomberg index of yields on
benchmark Fannie Mae 30-year home-loan bonds and those on 10-
year Treasuries. The spread, which reached 0.71 percentage point
from 1 percentage point on Jan. 1, rose to 0.79 as of 10:45 a.m.
in  New York .  ‘Remains Depressed’  Demand is coming partly from U.S. banks and  real estate
investment trusts , whose combined holdings soared more than $100
billion in the first quarter and is poised to jump again,
according to analysts at Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan Chase &
Co., which says the market may contract $70 billion this year.  The Fed, which said this month that housing “remains
depressed,” failed to announce further action to boost the
economy after an Aug. 1 meeting. While a JPMorgan survey the
prior week had found almost 80 percent of mortgage investors
forecasted a new round of buying, 6 percent of respondents
expected the decision at the meeting.  The contraction is among the reasons Fed purchases of $300
billion could pack “just as much punch” as the $1.25 trillion
bought during the  first round  of its so-called quantitative
easing through March 2010, Bank of America analysts including
 Chris Flanagan  and Satish Mansukhani said in a July 27 report.  Blackstone, Shell  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. was little changed, with
the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, at a mid-price of 102.9 basis points as of
12:06 p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The measure, which has climbed from a three-month low of
102.4 on Aug. 10, typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.99 basis point to 20.74 basis
points as of 12:04 p.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Shell Bonds  Bonds of Royal Dutch Shell Plc are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
77 trades of $1 million or more as of 12:07 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil producer, raised $2.5 billion
yesterday in a three-part offering through its international
finance unit. Its $500 million of 3.625 percent, 30-year bonds
fell 1.2 cents from the issue price to 98.76 cents on the dollar
to yield 3.69 percent as of 11:48 a.m. in New York, Trace data
show.  U.S. home-mortgage debt fell to $9.75 trillion as of March
31 from a record $10.6 trillion four years earlier, according to
the latest data from the Fed. The amount had doubled from 2001
to 2008, leaving borrowers overburdened as  home prices   tumbled .
After values fell 35 percent through February from a 2006 peak,
they gained 3.6 percent as of May, according to an S&P/Case
Shiller index.  The so-called agency mortgage-bond market, composed of
securities guaranteed by government-supported Fannie Mae and
 Freddie Mac  or U.S.-owned Ginnie Mae, initially grew at the
start of the credit crisis as the private market froze amid
record foreclosures.  All-Cash Deals  The outstanding amount expanded almost $1.5 trillion over
three years until a peak in February 2010 as first-time home
buyers relied on Federal Housing Administration loans packaged
into Ginnie Mae securities and as borrowers with other debt
refinanced in the market. Also at that time, Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac began to remove soured loans from their bonds after
shorter periods of delinquency.  The market for U.S. home-loan securities without government
backing has also contracted, falling to $1 trillion from a $2.3
trillion peak in 2007, Bloomberg and Fed data show. About $3
billion of bonds tied to new loans have been issued since 2008.  In contrast, the $4.5 trillion market for investment-grade
U.S. company bonds has been growing. Outstanding debt without
guarantees from governments has expanded by more than $270
billion this year, after increasing about $580 billion during
the previous two years, according to JPMorgan data.  REITs Buying  The government-backed mortgage market, which helps finance
about 90 percent of new mortgages, has also shrunk as more home
buyers use cash for property investments. All-cash deals
accounted for 29 percent of existing-home sales last quarter,
 according  to the National Association of Realtors.  The weak economy is also depressing household creation. New
households formed at an annualized rate of about 800,000 last
quarter, Census Bureau data show. A normal rate is 1.2 million,
Stephen East, an analyst with International Strategy &
Investment Group LLC, wrote in a July 27 report.  Among mortgage borrowers who refinanced last quarter, 23
percent reduced balances, a tactic sometimes needed to qualify,
 according  to Freddie Mac. Home equity tapped through “cash-
out” transactions that boost loan amounts fell to $5 billion,
from a record $84 billion in the second quarter of 2006.  The Fed owns $854 billion of agency mortgage bonds, buying
$273 billion since October under a program to reinvest
repayments into those notes to restrain yields.  Fed ‘Constrained’  “Across the world, there aren’t enough good, solid
sovereign-like assets,” Dave Cannon, co-head of mortgage-bond
trading at RBS Securities Inc., said in a telephone interview.  REITs that invest in U.S. mortgage debt have raised more
than $3 billion in equity this quarter. That means their
purchases of agency home-loan securities may be closer to the
first quarter’s “impressive” $52 billion than last quarter’s
$14 billion, JPMorgan analysts led by Matt Jozoff said in a
report.  The companies, which ended June with about $300 billion of
such holdings, about triple the 2009 level, are benefiting as
the Fed says it plans to hold short-term borrowing costs near
zero through at least late 2014.  That boon for the industry will continue for “several
years,”  AG Mortgage Investment Trust Inc. (MITT)  Chief Investment
Officer Jonathan Lieberman said on an Aug. 7  conference call ,
three days before the New York-based firm raised $135 million in
a share sale following a $45 million preferred stock offering in
July. The Fed is “constrained” because increases would depress
U.S. growth, he said.  58% Odds  U.S. banks may be poised to expand their buying as well,
after a period in which their “deposit growth has far
outstripped loan growth,” leading to “cash piling up,” the
JPMorgan analysts wrote in their Aug. 10 report. Commercial
banks increased their holdings from about $1.25 trillion at
year-end to about $1.31 trillion at the end of March and then
$1.34 trillion as of the week ended Aug. 1, the latest Fed data
show.  A “pick-up in demand” was seen last week as a result of
an increase in benchmark rates that drove yields higher, Morgan
Stanley analysts Vipul Jain and Janaki Rao said in an Aug. 10
report. Fed policy makers may fuel more buying by pledging to
keep short-term rates that guide banks’ borrowing costs low for
a longer period at their next meeting in September, they added.  Agency mortgage-bond investors are speculating more buying
by the U.S. central bank is also coming, with Credit Suisse
Group AG saying trading patterns yesterday signaled perceived
odds of about 58 percent. Average prices reached a record of
108.7 cents on the dollar on Aug. 2, before falling to 108.3
yesterday, Bank of America index data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  