-- Asian Stocks Drop as Mining, Metal Shares Slide on China
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-08-15T11:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/most-asian-stocks-advance-after-u-s-retail-german-growth-data.html
Asian  stocks  fell a third time in
four days as earnings disappointed investors amid concerns about
Europe’s simmering debt crisis. Steelmakers slid after the
world’s biggest ore producer said  China ’s golden years of
economic expansion are over.  China Aerospace International Holdings Ltd. slumped 5.3
percent in  Hong Kong  after the maker of liquid-crystal displays
said first-half profit probably dropped. Kobe Steel Ltd. and
other makers of industrial materials declined after an official
at Vale SA said China’s growth is slowing.  Great Wall Motor Co. (2333) 
slid 5.1 percent after recalling most of its vehicles sold in
 Australia  following the discovery of asbestos in some models.  “China’s economic slowdown remains a concern,” said
Shintaro Takeuchi, Tokyo-based  fund manager  at Tokio Marine &
Nichido Fire Insurance Co., which oversees $109 billion in
assets. “That could be tough for cyclical sectors, exporters
and manufacturers.”  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 0.5 percent to 119.79 as
of 7:58 p.m. in Tokyo, with almost two stocks declining for each
that advanced. Spain’s government is considering asking for a
broader bailout, European Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said yesterday as a report showed the
euro zone’s economy shrank in the second quarter.  Asia’s benchmark equity fell 6.7 percent from this year’s
high on Feb. 29 through yesterday on concern earnings would be
hurt by Europe’s debt crisis and China’s slump. The gauge traded
at 12.4 times estimated earnings compared with 13.6 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 11.6 for the Stoxx Europe 600
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nikkei 225  The  Nikkei 225  Stock Average fell 0.1 percent today.
 Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  retreated 0.3 percent after a
survey showed  consumer confidence  fell the most in five months
amid the highest  interest rates  among major developed nations.  Singapore’s Straits Times Index dropped 0.8 percent. Hong
Kong’s Hang Seng Index retreated 1.4 percent, while the Shanghai
Composite Index lost 1.1 percent. South Korea’s markets are
closed for a holiday today.  Futures on the  S&P 500 Index  fell 0.2 percent today. The
gauge was little changed yesterday as a slump in technology and
financial shares reversed an earlier rally sparked by bigger-
than-expected gains in U.S. retail sales.  Shares fell across Asia today after a report the euro-area
economy contracted in the second quarter as a spreading debt
crisis and government spending cuts forced at least six nations
into recession. Gross domestic product in the 17-nation currency
bloc fell 0.2 percent from the first quarter, when it stagnated,
the European Union’s statistics office said yesterday in
Luxembourg.  ‘Open Mind’  “The Spanish government has an open mind,” Olli Rehn said
in a Bloomberg Television interview in  New York  yesterday after
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said he would ask the central bank
to buy Spanish bonds “if it seems reasonable.”  In the U.S., retail sales climbed more than forecast in
July as spending rebounded at department stores and  car
dealerships . The 0.8 percent advance followed a revised 0.7
percent drop in June and was more than double economists’
 projections  for a 0.3 percent increase.  A measure of mining and metal companies had the second-
 biggest drop  among the MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s 10 industry
groups after Vale’s director of  investor relations  said China’s
“golden years are gone.”  “We are not going to see the spectacular growth rates of
10, 12 percent per year,” Vale’s Castello Branco said yesterday
at the Bloomberg Brazil Economic Summit in Rio. The mining
company shipped about 44 percent of its iron ore and pellets to
Chinese steelmakers in the second quarter.  Kobe Steel  Kobe Steel declined to 5.7 percent to 66 yen in Tokyo,
while  JFE Holdings Inc. (5411) , Japan’s second-biggest maker of the
alloy, slumped 3.9 percent to 1,047 yen. Daido Steel Co. dropped
1.6 percent to 440 yen.  Sims Metal Management Ltd. declined 7.7 percent to A$8.70
in Sydney after the recycler said writedowns on its North
American assets will lead to a loss of A$521 million ($547
million) this fiscal year. Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., an
Australian iron-ore explorer, lost 4.6 percent to A$4.20.  More than half of the  421 companies  on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index that have reported quarterly results since July,
and for which Bloomberg has estimates, missed expectations.
About 120 companies of the index’s 1,008 firms are reporting
earnings this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Aerospace declined 5.3 percent to 54 Hong Kong cents.
Profit for the six months through June may decrease from a year
earlier, the company said.  Gree Drops  Gree Inc., the online social network run by Japan’s
youngest billionaire, fell the most in almost three weeks in
Tokyo after forecasting a smaller operating profit than
estimated due to expansion costs. The stock dropped 7.3 percent
to 1,350 yen, its steepest decline since July 27.  Gome Electrical Appliances Holding Ltd. (493) , an electronics
retailer that gets all its revenue from China, tumbled 6.9
percent to 67 Hong Kong cents after announcing price cuts.  Great Wall Motor slid 5.1 percent to HK$16.48 in Hong Kong.
The Chinese automaker recalled most of its vehicles sold in
Australia after authorities found asbestos in in engine and
exhaust gaskets. The recall affects 23,000 vehicles, includes
some made by privately-held Chery Automobile Co., according to a
statement by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  