-- Lloyds Sells $1.6 Billion Private-Equity Assets to Coller
-- B y   R u s s e l l   W a r d   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-08-15T09:01:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/lloyds-sells-private-equity-assets-to-coller-for-1-6-billion.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the U.K.’s
second-biggest state-backed lender, agreed to sell private
equity-related investments for 1.03 billion pounds ($1.6
billion) as it shrinks following its 2008 bailout.  The sale of the portfolio, which had losses of 40 million
pounds in 2011, to a fund financed by British private-equity
investor Coller Capital Ltd., will result in a pretax gain for
Lloyds after it reverses a provision, the London-based bank said
in a statement today. The group will continue to manage the fund
in exchange for a fee, probably less than 10 million pounds a
year, it said.  Lloyds Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio is
selling assets after the bank received a 20.3 billion-pound
rescue following the 2008 credit crisis. Revenue and profit
margins are being squeezed as the U.K. economy contracts and the
 Bank of England  holds its key  interest rate  at a record low.  Lloyds valued the private-equity portfolio at 1.05 billion
pounds and the sale also includes the transfer of undrawn
commitments of 220 million pounds, the bank said. The buyer,
Coller International Partners VI, is a fund started by London-
based Coller Capital to buy private-equity portfolios from
investors who want to free capital. Banks have been selling such
holdings because the assets need more capital under new
regulations.  Record Transactions  Coller’s competitors include New York-based Lexington
Partners Inc. and Paris-based Axa Private Equity, which in June
raised $7.1 billion, the largest of such funds. Secondary
private-equity transactions rose to a record of about $25
billion in 2011 and are projected to stay at that level this
year as banks and insurers unload assets, according to a January
report by Cogent Partners, a New York-based advisory firm.  Lloyds started a so-called non-core division after its
bailout to house assets that it plans to sell or wind down. The
bank shrank the division by 44.9 billion pounds to 117.5 billion
pounds in the year through June. The lender plans to reduce non-
core assets to less than 70 billion pounds by the end of 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Russell Ward in Tokyo at 
 rward16@bloomberg.net 
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  