-- Paulson Steps Up Gold Bet to 44% of Firm’s Equity Assets
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-08-15T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/paulson-steps-up-gold-bet-to-44-of-firm-s-equity-assets.html
Billionaire  John Paulson  raised his
stake in an exchange-traded fund tracking the price of gold
while selling other stocks during the second quarter, leaving
his $21 billion hedge fund with more than 44 percent of its U.S.
traded equities tied to bullion.  Paulson & Co. purchased an additional 4.53 million shares
of the SPDR Gold Trust, the firm’s largest position, and bought
more shares of  NovaGold Resources Inc. (NG) , according to a Form 13F
filed yesterday with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Gold prices posted their biggest declines since 2008
last quarter.  While Paulson trimmed his stake in  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) 
and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , sales of energy, financial and auto-parts
stocks boosted the relative weighting of gold-related securities
in his U.S. stock portfolio to the highest in three years.
That’s making the fund more vulnerable to declines in the price
of bullion as the hedge-fund manager struggles to reverse record
losses last year.  Paulson, 56, has lost 23 percent so far this year in his
Gold Fund and 18 percent in the Advantage Plus Fund, in part
because of wrong-way bets on mining companies. Advantage Plus,
which seeks to profit from corporate events such as takeovers
and bankruptcies and uses leverage to amplify returns, declined
51 percent last year.  Concentrated Holdings  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for New York-based Paulson & Co.,
declined to comment on the filing.  Paulson’s U.S.-listed holdings peaked at $34.3 billion at
the end of March 2011, with about $7.7 billion of that amount,
or 23 percent, invested in gold related stocks. Since then, the
firm’s overall assets have declined more sharply than its
investments in the SPDR Gold ETF and gold miners, leaving the
funds increasingly exposed to the precious metal.  Paulson had 33 percent of his U.S. stock holdings in gold-
related securities at the end of the first quarter and 25
percent a year ago.  The last time his stock portfolio had a bigger
concentration in gold-related equities than last quarter was
March 2009, when U.S. equities hit bottom. At that time, gold
stocks equaled about 46 percent of Paulson’s $9.36 billion in
reported U.S. stock holdings.  Best Bet  Gold slumped 4 percent in the second quarter, the biggest
quarterly loss since Sept. 30, 2008. Prices fell as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  and Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  failed to increase stimulus measures, damping
the outlook for global growth and demand for the metal as a
hedge against inflation. The price is down 0.1 percent since
June 30.  Paulson, who became a billionaire in 2007 by wagering
against the subprime mortgage market, told clients in February
that gold is his best long-term bet, serving as protection
against currency debasement, rising inflation and a possible
breakup of the euro. Gold miners are historically inexpensive,
he said at a meeting with investors in April.  His hedge fund has been buying mining companies as part of
the bet on rising gold prices, though losses by the stocks have
hurt returns. Paulson added 4 million NovaGold shares, which
slumped the most in more than three years last month after
Barrick Gold Corp., the world’s biggest producer of the metal,
said their Donlin Gold joint venture didn’t meet its investment
criteria.  Selling AngloGold  Paulson sold 400,540 American depositary receipts of
AngloGold, its second-largest position, and 819,000 ADRs of Gold
Fields in the second quarter. The fund disposed of stakes in
Anadarko Petroleum Corp., Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., Medco
Health Solutions Inc., El Paso LLC and SunTrust Banks Inc.  Paulson said during a conference call with investors last
month that his firm has reduced risk at some of its funds,
according to a client, who asked not to be named because the
call was private. So-called net exposure in its Advantage funds,
which seek to profit from corporate events such as takeovers and
bankruptcies, was 11 percent; at the Credit funds it was minus 9
percent; and at the Recovery funds, which bet on assets Paulson
believes will benefit from a long-term economic advance, it was
31 percent, the investor said.  The Advantage funds had net exposure of 32 percent as of
the end of January, the Credit funds were at 27 percent and the
Recovery funds were at 55 percent, according to an annual letter
sent to clients in February.  Net exposure is calculated by subtracting the percentage of
a hedge fund’s short positions, or bets on falling securities,
from its long holdings, or wagers on rising stocks and bonds.  Money managers who oversee more than $100 million in
equities must file a Form 13F within 45 days of each quarter’s
end to list their U.S.-traded stocks, options and convertible
bonds. The filings don’t show non-U.S. securities or how much
cash the firms hold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  