-- Pennsylvania Voter ID Challengers Lose Bid to Block Law
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-15T18:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/pennsylvania-voter-id-challengers-lose-bid-to-block-law.html
Pennsylvania’s voter photo-ID law
was upheld and the Obama campaign challenged Ohio’s pre-election
voting timetables, in two of a series of lawsuits in the run-up
to the November presidential vote.  The  American Civil Liberties Union  and 10 voters in
Pennsylvania today failed to overturn a rule that voters show
approved photo identification at the polls. They didn’t prove
voters would be disenfranchised by the law, Judge Robert E. Simpson in Harrisburg wrote.  In neighboring Ohio, the campaign of President  Barack Obama 
asked a judge to equalize the time voters have to cast ballots
before the election. Under state law, early voting for armed
forces members and Americans living overseas ends three days
later than for others.  Voter cases are also active in Texas,  South Carolina ,
 Florida  and  Wisconsin .  “It’s a presidential election year, and so people tend to
care more about these kinds of disputes,” said Michael Dimino,
a Widener University law professor.  Pennsylvania  is one of nine states requiring photo IDs to
vote. Its law became a test case in the voter-eligibility debate
after a state analysis found as many as 9 percent of its
electorate may be unable to vote for president.  The ACLU sued in May, saying the law unfairly burdens
minorities, the elderly and the poor and might suppress voting.  The judge disagreed today in a 70-page opinion that sets
the stage for an appeal to the state’s highest court.  ‘Reasonable’ Requirement  “The photo ID requirement of Act 18 is a reasonable, non-
discriminatory, non-severe burden when viewed in the broader
context of the widespread use of photo ID in daily life,” he
wrote. “The commonwealth’s asserted interest in protecting
public confidence in elections is a relevant and legitimate
state interest sufficiently weighty to justify the burden.”  Pennsylvania has 20 Electoral College votes, and  Ohio  has
18. Together the states have 14 percent of the 270 electoral
votes needed to win the presidency.  The Pennsylvania ID debate is getting heightened attention
because of the state’s swing status, said Daniel Tokaji, a
professor at  Ohio State University ’s law school in Columbus.  Obama, a Democrat, won Pennsylvania with 55 percent of the
vote in 2008. He won by 620,478 votes there, fewer than the
number who, according to plaintiffs in the suit, might be kept
from the polls on Nov. 6.  In Ohio, no Republican has ever  won the presidency  while
losing the state. In 2008, Obama won it with 52 percent of the
ballots cast.  Prior Law  Ohio previously allowed everyone to vote until the day
before the election. A law signed by Republican Governor  John Kasich  created the division. Obama and Democrats sued last month
seeking to overturn the law. Oral arguments on a court order
blocking it were held today in U.S. District Court in Columbus.  “There is no fundamental right to in-person early
voting,” Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted and Attorney
General Mike DeWine, both Republicans, argued in court papers.
Ohio has a rational basis for treating military and overseas
voters differently from others, they said.  The curb on early voting for nonmilitary citizens allows
local election boards to synchronize those votes with those at
9,800 polling places to prevent double-voting, Husted said.  Obama and Democrats say no distinction between otherwise-
eligible voters justifies giving more time to one group than
another.  Other States  Elsewhere, the U.S. Justice Department has blocked voter-ID
laws in  Texas  and South Carolina, states that need permission
from the government under the federal Voting Rights Act before
changing election procedures because of their histories of
violations.  A panel of three federal judges heard the Texas case in
 Washington  last month. A hearing in South Carolina’s is
scheduled later this month.  Wisconsin’s voter-ID law was declared unconstitutional by a
state court judge in March. The state is appealing. In Florida,
officials told a federal appeals court that they may seek to
reverse a lower-court order blocking the enforcement of the
state’s restrictions on voter-registration groups.  The Pennsylvania plaintiffs will appeal today’s decision,
said David Gersch, a lawyer with the firm Arnold & Porter LLP.  “At trial, we demonstrated that there are about a million
registered voters who lack the ID necessary to vote under
Pennsylvania’s photo ID law,” Gersch said today in an e-mailed
statement. “If the court’s decision stands, a lot of those
people will not be able to vote in November.”  Acceptable ID  Pennsylvania’s law requires a driver’s license or other
state-issued ID, or an acceptable alternative such as a military
ID, to cast a ballot in the presidential election.  Backed by Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, the law
enacted in March was attacked by Democrats as a tool for
disenfranchising some voters.  The judge said the state offered credible evidence that
steps before election will help educate voters and streamline
the process of acquiring approved photo identification. Absentee
voting, provisional ballots and judicial relief for those with
special hardships make disenfranchisement less likely, Simpson
said.  State officials said the law will deter in-person voter
fraud, protect the integrity of elections and ensure public
confidence in the election process.  There has never been an investigation, prosecution or
confirmed incident of in-person voter fraud, the officials said
in the trial.  Number Affected  Records show about 759,000 prospective voters lack a
driver’s license and an alternative state ID, a number that may
be as high as 1.5 million, David Burgess, a deputy Ohio
secretary of state, testified during a week-long trial.  Secretary of State Carol Aichele said the 759,000 figure
was hastily gathered and testified that the state anticipated
100,000 would lack proper ID.  The challengers failed to establish that greater injury
will occur from refusing to temporarily bar the law than from
blocking it, the Pennsylvania judge said.  A “deferential standard” should be employed to evaluate a
challenge to the law, Simpson wrote, citing the U.S. Supreme
Court’s 2008 rejection of a constitutional challenge to
 Indiana ’s voter-ID law.  Obama in 2008 won 83 percent of the vote in Philadelphia,
the state’s largest city. The new requirement may disqualify
about 186,000 potential voters, almost 25 percent of the adult
residents in the city, according to the state’s estimates.  The Pennsylvania case is Applewhite v. Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, 330-md-2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg). The Ohio case is Obama for America v. Husted, 12-
cv-00636, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Ohio
(Columbus).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 