-- Pfizer’s Quigley Wins Approval for Bankruptcy Plan Vote
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-08-15T18:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/pfizer-s-quigley-wins-approval-for-bankruptcy-plan-vote.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s non-operating Quigley
Co. unit won permission to have creditors vote on a bankruptcy
plan that would bar most asbestos claims against the two
companies, as a judge said the issue of whether Pfizer bought
votes will be addressed later.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein in  Manhattan  today
approved Quigley’s sixth reorganization plan draft after
objections that it won’t resolve whether Pfizer devised the plan
in bad faith and manipulated the bankruptcy for its benefit.  An issue that keeps resurfacing -- whether Pfizer’s actions
are “just another attempt to buy the vote” of asbestos
claimants -- will be addressed at a trial when Quigley seeks
final confirmation of its plan after a vote, Bernstein said.  His ruling may lead to an end to the seven-year Chapter 11
case over how the former maker of products for the  steel
industry  and its parent, the  world’s largest drugmaker , will
resolve their liability for asbestos claims.  Under the draft plan, Pfizer would contribute assets to a
trust to cover claims that Quigley’s past products caused
asbestos-related injuries.  Asbestos claims against Quigley may total $4.45 billion
over 42 years, according to testimony cited by Bernstein in
September 2010, when he denied Quigley’s request to exit
bankruptcy under a prior plan.  At the time, the court found Pfizer’s proposed contribution
of $216.2 million wasn’t enough to pay asbestos claimants, who
may have fared better by suing the company under civil tort law.  Pfizer’s Contributions  Pfizer has since increased its contributions, and in March
2011 a committee formed by asbestos claimants settled with
Pfizer and will receive $800 million under the agreement.  The U.S. Trustee, an arm of the  Justice Department  that
oversees bankruptcies, objected to the current disclosure
statement, which describes how creditors would be treated.
Concerns raised by Bernstein in his September 2010 ruling still
haven’t been resolved, Tracy Hope Davis, the acting trustee,
said in court papers.  In that ruling, Bernstein found Pfizer “wrongly
manipulated the voting process to assure confirmation of the
plan, and thereby gain the benefit of the channeling
injunction” by giving some asbestos claimants incentives to
vote in favor of the plan, Davis said.  Under the  bankruptcy code , channeling injunctions allow
companies to limit future liabilities by channeling them to a
trust.  Victims’ Accords  The current plan still doesn’t disclose whether settlements
Pfizer made with asbestos victims are consistent with historic
standards, and why asbestos claimants who settled their lawsuits
against Pfizer before Quigley’s bankruptcy have a right to vote,
Davis said.  It would only give some asbestos claimants 7.5 percent of
what they seek and block them from making future claims against
Pfizer under tort law, where they might get an estimated
23 percent of what they seek, Davis added.  Quigley, in bankruptcy since 2004, filed the sixth version
of its plan June 29. It addresses an April appeals court ruling
on how Pfizer can use Quigley’s bankruptcy to protect itself
from asbestos claims. The court found that  law firm  of  Peter
Angelos  can sue Pfizer based on manufacturer liability under
Pennsylvania law.  The new plan’s exception for claims under state law would
be null and void if the appeals court’s decision was modified on
rehearing or by the  Supreme Court , Quigley said in the plan.  Litigation’s Start  Angelos began suing Pfizer in 1999, saying that because the
drug company’s logo appeared on Quigley products, it should have
liability for the asbestos-containing products.  Reaud, Morgan & Quinn LLP , a law firm that represents
asbestos claimants, objected, saying Pfizer is paying
$300 million more to the 40,000 claimants represented by the
committee than it paid 193,000 earlier, to “settle the claims
of the most outspoken opponents” of its reorganization plan.  Hissey Kientz LLP , a law firm which said it represents
3,200 claimants with diseases such as mesothelioma and lung
cancer, joined in Reaud Morgan’s objection. A committee of
unsecured creditors and Pfizer said they supported the current
disclosure statement.  Albert Togut, a representative for people who haven’t yet
manifested asbestos-related illnesses but will do so in the
future and bring claims against the trust, said in court papers
that he was still resolving issues with Quigley and Pfizer.  Spokesman’s Statement  Christopher Loder , a Pfizer spokesman, said the company is
“pleased with the court’s decision to approve Quigley’s
disclosure statement” and looks forward to moving ahead with
the bankruptcy.  Quigley, founded in 1916, made three products for the steel
industry from the 1940s to the 1970s that contained asbestos.
Pfizer bought Quigley in 1968. The unit stopped most operations
in 1992 and filed for bankruptcy in 2004.  Pfizer has said it never made or sold any Quigley products.
Some claimants haven’t released Pfizer from alleged derivative
liability, according to the company.  Under the sixth amended plan, Pfizer will contribute
$260 million in cash to a trust that will pay most future
asbestos claims brought against it and Quigley. Pfizer will also
forgive a secured claim of $95 million against Quigley, a loan
of $19 million to Quigley, and an unsecured claim of
$33 million. It will contribute insurance benefits that cover
asbestos personal injury claims.  Property’s Use  Pfizer will also contribute a property leased to an Orange
County,  California , Anheuser-Busch distributor to pay asbestos
claims. The property has an estimated value of $43.6 million and
produced cash flow of $1.9 million in the first 12 months since
Pfizer acquired it, according to court papers.  The committee of asbestos claimants asked in 2010 to have
the bankruptcy dismissed so it could bring tort claims, which
are otherwise blocked by bankruptcy law.  The U.S. Trustee also in 2010 asked the  bankruptcy court  to
end Quigley’s Chapter 11 case, citing the fact that creditors
alleging asbestos-related health issues have been unable to sue
New York-based Pfizer during the case, and many have died.  The case is In re Quigley Co., 04-15739,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The appeals
case is 11-2635, 11-2767,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second
Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 