-- Pfizer’s Experimental Drug Works in Ulcerative Colitis
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-16T20:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/pfizer-s-experimental-drug-works-in-ulcerative-colitis.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s experimental
rheumatoid arthritis pill tofacitinib eased symptoms of patients
with ulcerative colitis, an inflammatory bowel disease that
affects 750,000 Americans, a company-sponsored study showed.  Among 194 adults with moderate to severe ulcerative
colitis, tofacitinib reduced symptoms such as pain and bleeding
in 78 percent of patients given the trial’s highest dose,
according to  results published  in the New England Journal of
Medicine. The study was from the second of three stages of human
tests needed for regulatory approval.  Ulcerative colitis often starts when patients are in their
teens or 20s and  causes  diarrhea, bloody stool,  weight loss  and
abdominal pain, according to the U.S. National Institutes of
Health. About a third of patients don’t respond to two
injectable immune-modulating drugs used to treat patients today,
said Miguel Regueiro, co-director of the Inflammatory Bowel
Disease Center at the  University of Pittsburgh  School of
Medicine.  “These are very exciting data, this would clearly make an
impact on treatment,” Regueiro said in a telephone interview.  Pfizer, based in  New York , has moved tofacitinib into the
final stage of clinical testing for ulcerative colitis and is
awaiting a decision by U.S. regulators whether to approve the
drug for use in rheumatoid arthritis.  Pfizer  shares  fell less than 1 percent to $24.02 at the
close in New York.  In the study, 78 percent of 49 patients given a 15
milligram dose experienced a reduction in symptoms; 61 percent
of 33 patients given a 10 milligram dose improved.  Eight-Week Trial  Patients in the trial got Pfizer’s pill for eight weeks,
though likely would take it for longer because ulcerative
colitis is a chronic disease, said William Sandborn, chief of
the division of gastroenterology at the  University of
California ,  San Diego , who led the research.  “If it works in induction, it would be reasonable to test
it as a longer-term maintenance therapy,” Sandborn said.
“We’re anxious to see what the longer-term treatment profile
looks like.”  Pfizer is trying to get the drug approved for patients who
fail on other therapies,  Victoria Davis , a spokeswoman for the
company, said in an e-mail. In the study, patients also got
doses of 0.5 milligram and 3 milligrams.  Current patients first get mesalamine, an anti-inflammatory
drug. For the half of patients for whom the medicine doesn’t
work, they can go on injectable immunosuppressant therapies such
as Johnson & Johnson’s  Remicade (JNJ) , or the steroid prednisone, said
Sandborn.  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , based in  Abbott Park ,  Illinois ,
is also studying its injection Humira for use in the disease.  New Mechanism  Pfizer’s drug doesn’t work through the same biological
pathway as the Abbott and J&J medications.  “Having a different mechanism of action is hugely
important,” Regueiro said. It would also let patients take the
drug in pill form, instead of by injection or infusion. That
would help patients keep on their medicine, he said.  Pfizer said it has started three larger, longer phase III
studies that will better examine the drug’s safety and side
effects at the higher dosages. In rheumatoid arthritis patients,
immunosuppressant medicines can cause infections or cancers.
Those patients, though, are often older and have other medical
conditions, Sandborn said. Younger patients may be able to
tolerate a higher dose, he said.  Side Effects  The most common side effects related to infection reported
in the ulcerative colitis study included influenza and cold-like
symptoms. There was also a dose-dependent increase in LDL and
HDL cholesterol that reversed after patients stopped taking the
drug. The size of the trial, however, wasn’t large enough to
allow for a comprehensive assessment of the drug’s safety and
tolerability, researchers said in the study.  Pfizer is still recruiting patients for the phase III
trials, and doesn’t have a date on when the studies will be
complete or when it might submit to the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  to get the drug approved for ulcerative colitis,
said Pfizer’s Davis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  