-- Pfizer, Green Mountain, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/pfizer-green-mountain-google-intellectual-property.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest
drugmaker, will add an over-the-counter version of  AstraZeneca (AZN) 
Plc’s heartburn pill to its stable of consumer products that
include the pain reliever Advil and the vitamin Centrum.  Pfizer has been looking to expand its consumer business,
which generated $3.01 billion last year. The New York-based
company last year discussed trying to get regulators to approve
a nonprescription form of Lipitor, its top-selling cholesterol
pill that lost patent protection in November.  AstraZeneca is trying to plot its strategy after the April
resignation of Chief Executive Officer  David Brennan , who had
been criticized by investors for failing to bolster the London-
based company’s pipeline of experimental drugs. Pfizer has been
selling off its non-drug units and focusing on developing new
medicines. While it’s shedding its infant nutrition and animal
health businesses, Pfizer opted to keep its consumer business
that includes over-the-counter treatments.  To obtain the rights to an over-the-counter Nexium, Pfizer
paid AstraZeneca $250 million upfront with royalties from sales
once the pill enters the market in 2014, the companies said
yesterday in a joint statement.  Pfizer said the cost of the deal reduces its 2012 profit
 forecast  2 cents a share, to a range of $2.12 to $2.22.
AstraZeneca boosted its annual earnings  forecast  15 cents a
share, to $6 to $6.30.  With the deal, “Pfizer is continuing to enhance the value
of our consumer health-care business,”  Ian Read , Pfizer’s
chairman and chief executive officer, said in the statement.  The Nexium deal may be the first of several such
partnerships, Pfizer and AstraZeneca said. Both are “exploring
the potential for a strategic partnership that could include
similar agreements for other AstraZeneca prescription brands for
which OTC versions might be appropriate,” the companies said.  Nexium was AstraZeneca’s third-biggest drug in 2011, with
$4.4 billion in revenue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Nexium loses patent protection in the U.S. in 2014.
The agreement doesn’t change the sales rights for the
prescription version of the drug, which will stay with
AstraZeneca.  The over-the-counter version of the pill still has to be
approved by regulators, the companies said in their statement.
It could go on sale in the U.S. as soon as 2014, and other
markets afterwards.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Green Mountain Trademarks Rivo Name for Espresso Machine  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR) , which plans to
introduce an espresso maker this year to compete with  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX) , registered “Rivo” as a trademark for a machine to make
such drinks.  The name Rivo, which means “stream” in Italian, was
registered by Green Mountain’s Keurig Inc. unit this year for
electric brewing and electric espresso machines, according to
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office website. Waterbury,
Vermont-based Green Mountain previously said it is working with
Luigi Lavazza SpA to develop an espresso maker.  “We’ve not made a product announcement related to that
name,” Suzanne DuLong, a Green Mountain spokeswoman, said in an
interview.  Green Mountain is facing more competition as grocers and
other manufacturers, such as  Safeway Inc. (SWY)  and Rogers Family Co.,
make private-label capsules to fit into Keurig machines. While
the main patents for K-Cups expire in September, Chief Executive
Officer Lawrence Blanford has recently started selling the more-
expensive Vue machine and single-serve cups.  The Rivo is another step to help Green Mountain combat
emerging rivals as it struggles to accurately forecast capsule
sales. Green Mountain’s espresso machine will likely compete
with Starbucks’s Verismo single-serve beverage maker, which will
be sold in the U.S. this year online, in some Starbucks cafes
and in specialty retailers.  Starbucks CEO  Howard Schultz  announced in March that the
Verismo would specialize in high-pressure, espresso drinks and
would also make brewed coffee. The Seattle-based company hasn’t
released pricing information for the Verismo.  Lavazza, based in Italy,  owned  5 percent of Green Mountain
as of February 24, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dick’s Sporting Goods Buys Some Rights to Field & Stream Marks  Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS) , the largest U.S. retailer of
athletic goods, said it will buy the rights to  Field & Stream 
magazine’s trademark in a number of categories.  The magazine, which was founded in 1895, focuses on outdoor
activities related to hunting and fishing.  According to a
statement from Coraopolis, Pennsylvania-based Dick’s, the rights
that were bought are for use of the mark in the hunting,
fishing, camping and paddle categories.  Previously the company had leased these rights from the
magazine since 2007. Now Dick’s is paying $25 million to own
them, according to the Dick’s statement.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Bulgari Accuses Kenneth Jay Lane of Copying Jewelry Designs  Bulgari SpA sued Kenneth Jay Lane Inc., saying the New York
jewelry designer copies and imitates its rings and bracelets
without permission.  Rome-based Bulgari accused  Kenneth Jay Lane , in a complaint
filed Aug. 13 in federal court in Manhattan, of copyright
infringement, design patent infringement and unfair competition.
The company, a unit of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ,
seeks a court order to end the sale of allegedly infringing
jewelry and unspecified damages.  “Bulgari’s jewelry items consist of distinctive and
original designs, including design elements and features that
have become synonymous with Bulgari in the eyes of the public,
consumers and the luxury goods industry,” the Italian company
said in the complaint.  Jonathan Wolfert, a lawyer who represents Kenneth Jay Lane
in a separate trademark infringement case, didn’t return an e-
mail or telephone call to his office seeking comment on the
Bulgari lawsuit.  The case is Bulgari v. Kenneth Jay Lane, 12-cv-6194, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  Google Can Appeal Class-Action Status of Digital-Book Case  Google Inc. (GOOG)  can appeal the class-action status granted to a
lawsuit over digital books, a federal appeals court in New York
said yesterday.  U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin  in New York, sitting as a
federal trial judge in the case, in May granted class-action or
group status to a series of plaintiffs, including the Author’s
Guild and the American Society of Media Photographers in
lawsuits over electronic books.  Chin also granted a request for three individual plaintiffs
to represent a nationwide class of copyright holders in the
Author’s Guild suit.  The appeals court yesterday granted Google leave to appeal
the class-action ruling while the case is still pending before
Chin.  In July, Google asked Chin to dismiss the Authors Guild
case, arguing that authors benefit from the project because
their books can be more readily found, bought and read, while
the public gains “increased knowledge.” Google also argued
that the display of snippets of text is fair use under copyright
law and that the authors haven’t been harmed by the display.  In his May ruling, Chin also rejected Google’s arguments
that the groups lacked standing to sue over claims the search
engine company’s digital scanning of millions of books infringed
the copyright owners’ rights.  Maggie Shiels, a spokeswoman for Google, declined to
comment on the court’s ruling.  The suits stem from Google’s plan, announced in 2004, to
digitally scan books from public and university libraries to
provide short excerpts of text to people who use its Internet
search engine. The Authors Guild, individual authors and
publishing companies sued in 2005, claiming the  Mountain View ,
California-based company hadn’t sought authorization from the
owners of the works.  Google has argued that the display of snippets of text is
fair use under copyright law. Chin asked Google today why it was
important at this stage of the case to determine the ownership
of the copyrights.  Google said in a February court filing that it has scanned
more than 20 million books, and that Web users can see excerpts
in English from more than 4 million of them. The project began
with the digitizing of books from the libraries of the
 University of Michigan ,  Harvard University ,  Stanford University ,
Oxford University and the  New York Public Library .  The authors’ case is Authors Guild v. Google, 05-08136;
the visual artists’ case is American Society of Media
Photographers v. Google, 10-02977; U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Duke, Progress Ordered to Disclose Transactions Details  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  and  Progress Energy Inc. (PREX) , were ordered to
disclose some details of transactions with major customers they
had argued was a trade secret, Capitol Broadcasting Corp.
 reported .  The North Carolina Utilities Commission told the two
companies yesterday that the details they insisted should be
protected didn’t involve technical information and had no
independent commercial value, according to Capitol Broadcasting
Corp.  Aug. 24 is the deadline for the companies either to file an
appeal or release the public records, Capitol Broadcasting
reported.  The public inquiry that lead to the utility commission’s
ruling came in the wake of Duke’s acquisition of Progress,
according to Capitol Broadcasting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 