-- Porpoise Threatening Merkel’s $48 Billion Atomic Shift
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-08-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/porpoise-threatening-merkel-s-48-billion-atomic-shift-energy.html
Porpoises and bombs left by  Adolf
Hitler ’s forces six decades ago are adding millions of dollars
to costs for wind-turbine developers in waters off  Germany ,
delaying the nation’s shift from nuclear energy.  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , the country’s two biggest utilities, are
using technologies that reduce noise from driving turbines into
the seabed after nature groups complained that the work damages
the sonar-like hearing of porpoises. Unexploded mines from World
War II also are holding up work.  “A porpoise is doomed to die if its hearing is
shattered,” Kim Detloff, a marine expert at German nature
conservation group NABU, said in a phone interview. “The
regulator must sanction developers if they repeatedly violate
the noise limit.”  The concerns show that wind developers are beginning to
face the same scrutiny as  oil companies  for projects in
sensitive places, a trend likely to add costs and slim profit
margins that already are razor-thin. That adds another hurdle to
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s effort to build up offshore wind as
an alternative to atomic power, a program that may cost 39
billion euros ($48 billion) by 2020.  “Developing offshore wind in Germany is already more
expensive than in other countries as projects are situated
further from the coast in deeper waters,” said Fraser Johnston,
an analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance. “Any additional
costs such as delays to grid connections and environmental
considerations will put more pressure on already low returns.”  Whale Concerns  Three years ago,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) 
curbed seismic surveys that map underground rock structures near
the Sakhalin Island north of  Japan  after the wildlife group WWF
International said loud noises were disturbing endangered
western gray whales.  Marine Current Turbines Ltd., a tidal power company that’s
now mostly owned by  Siemens AG (SIE) , faced objections to installing a
device similar to an underwater windmill in  Northern Ireland 
because of potential damage to sealife. The company paid for
all-day monitoring of seals, porpoises, birds and sharks at the
site for three years before the turbine began running in 2008.  In Germany, the government envisions installing 25,000
megawatts of  wind turbines  offshore by 2030, which may cover an
area of the sea eight times the size of  New York  city.  “Quite a large proportion of our sea area will probably be
used for offshore wind farms,” said Hans-Ulrich Rosner, head of
the Wadden Sea Office for WWF in Germany. “This will have a
serious impact on nature, which needs to be mitigated.”  Underwater Sound  By next month, German utility EWE AG plans to complete work
using a sound-reduction system developed by the Dutch
engineering company  IHC Merwede BV . It’s being installed for the
first time commercially on offshore wind turbine foundations at
the 108-megawatt Riffgat facility in the  North Sea , said
Christian Bartsch, a spokesman for EWE.  EWE is placing a double-walled, water-filled steel casing
about 11 meters in diameter around the foundation. The system
produces a screen of air bubbles to absorb sound. Work started
in June. EWE is reducing the intensity and duration of hammering
piles into the seabed by using vibrations to seat them in the
first 30 meters (98 feet) then driving them in the final 40
meters using traditional methods.  “While developers are generally eager to install
foundations as quickly as possible, they’ve come under pressure
from regulators and nature groups to protect the porpoise,”
Otto von Estorff of the Hamburg University of Technology said by
phone on Aug. 14. “No developer wants to be seen harming the
environment.”  Government Support  Von Estorff, who heads the university’s modeling and
computation institute, is part of a group of scientists that
will start measuring noise at the Bard Offshore 1 construction
in mid-September in the North Sea. The German Environment
Ministry is paying for the project.  Developers are spending about 0.5 percent of a wind farm
investment on noise reduction, according to industry specialist
 Hydrotechnik Luebeck GmbH . It’s one of the factors making German
wind farms more costly than ones in the U.K.  German projects are developed at costs of between about 4.2
million euros to 4.4 million euros a megawatt ($5.2 million to
$5.4 million a megawatt). That compares with about 3.7 million
to 4 million euros for most projects in the U.K., according to
New Energy Finance.  Testing Results  “We will soon, possibly in the next two months, receive
noise test results that should be of interest to the entire
industry,” Bartsch said. “Without these measures work would be
faster. A crane-ship costs a lot of money each day. We all agree
that we need to do this to protect the animals.”  About 231,000 porpoises, which are smaller and stouter than
dolphins, live in the North Sea and  Baltic Sea , said Sven
Koschinski, a German marine biologist and consultant. The
population in the Baltic Sea dropped 60 percent to 11,000
between 1994 and 2005, he said.  Porpoises use clicking sounds to navigate, locate prey and
find mating partners. While sea mammals are coping with
increased ambient noise from shipping, driving foundations into
the ground can produce sudden sounds as loud as 245 decibels
that can lead to physical injuries, Koschinski said.  “In the central Baltic Sea, there is a separate stock of
only 400 remaining porpoises, and that’s an estimate from 1994
that could be smaller today,” Koschinski said. “Every dead
animal there is threatening the survival of the population.”  Reducing Costs  More than two decades after the first wind farm at sea was
installed in  Denmark  in 1991, developers are trying to reduce
costs linked to building offshore farms, which in most cases
require financing of at least 1 billion euros. Germany plans to
install 25,000 megawatts of the turbines by 2030, a program that
may cost 39.2 billion euros ($48 billion) by the end of this
decade, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance calculations.  Pile-driving into the seabed isn’t the only threat to
animals and developers.  TenneT TSO GmbH, the company linking the Riffgat project to
the grid, detected several World War II mines as it prepared to
lay cables. The bombs must be recovered or detonated, adding to
the costs of the project, said Cornelia Junge, a spokeswoman for
the grid operator.  EWE commissioned a screening of its turbine field because
weapons were known to have been dumped nearby. All the utility
found was waste from ships and households, Bartsch said.  “A screening costs money, but much less than if you’d have
to recover or defuse explosives,” he said.  Tons of Bombs  About 1.6 million metric tons of weapons, including naval
mines, TNT bombs and artillery shells filled with chemical
agents, are estimated to be lying in the German North and Baltic
Sea, according to a government-sponsored  report  released in
December. Detonating a 300-kilogram mine can tear the lungs of
porpoises 4 kilometers away, Koschinski said.  Germany’s  Federal Maritime and Hydrographic Agency , or BSH,
has set a noise limit of 160 decibels for 750 meters around
offshore wind construction work. Developers regularly overshoot
the limit, which is not applied to detonating old bombs, the
BSH’s Christian Dahlke said.  “Developers are making major efforts, which cost a lot of
money,” Dahlke said by phone from Hamburg. “The problem is
that the available technologies are only in the development
stages.” He estimates that noise reduction costs developers
“at least 5 million euros per project.”  Noise Reduction  Utilities including EON, RWE and Dong Energy A/S spent 3.9
million euros to reduce noise at a project completed in the
Baltic Sea last month. While the tests “brought the noise level
much closer” to the 160 decibel cap, more research and
development is needed “to meet the limit reliably in the
future,” RWE said in a  statement .  RWE is installing a large hose perforated to produce a
curtain of air bubbles around each of the 48 turbine foundations
at the Nordsee Ost project. It hopes that will absorb the noise
of more than 12,000 blows that will drive the structures 35
meters into the seabed.  Noise mitigation systems cost at least 80,000 euros to
100,000 euros per foundation, said Fabian Wilke, the RWE’s noise
reduction expert. The utility is also vibrating the foundations
as much as 15 meters into the ground to reduce the number of
hammer blows by about 1,000. While the method adds to costs,
“we want to do this as we aim to get the best possible results
for the environment,” Wilke said.  Strabag SE (STR) , central  Europe ’s biggest builder, in March said
it plans to spend more than 100 million euros on a factory in
Germany to make concrete foundations that are placed on, rather
than driven into the seabed.  “Our regulations are creating a new industry,” Dahlke
said. “If environmental rules to protect animal life are
tightened in other countries as well, our companies may even
export these technologies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  