-- Pregnancy Center Case to Go Before Full Appeals Court
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-08-15T21:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/pregnancy-center-case-to-go-before-full-appeals-court.html
The full U.S. Appeals Court in
Richmond,  Virginia , agreed to rehear a case involving a law that
requires anti-abortion pregnancy centers to post an advisory
encouraging their clients to consult with medical professionals.  The court set Dec. 6 for oral arguments in the rehearing,
accepting a request by Montgomery County,  Maryland , to review a
split decision by a three-judge panel.  Centro Tepeyac, a Catholic pregnancy center, sued
Montgomery County for requiring posted advisories stating that
it didn’t have medical professionals on staff and encouraging
women who are or may be pregnant to consult with a licensed
health-care provider. The center, based in  Silver Spring ,
Maryland, argued that mandating the advisories violated their
right to free speech.  A lower court had said the center must post a statement
that it didn’t have medical professionals on staff, while also
ruling that the center didn’t need to post a notice advising
women to consult a licensed health-care provider. The three-
judge appeals panel overturned the lower court’s decision on the
staff posting.  ‘Legislative Evidence’  “There is substantial legislative evidence that pregnancy
centers that are not staffed by licensed medical professionals
represent a threat to women’s health,” county officials said in
their July 6 request for the rehearing. “The policy issues that
underlie this matter are national in scope and call out for
fuller consideration by this Court.”  In a similar case, the appeals court on June 27 upheld a
lower-court ruling that bars the city of Baltimore from
enforcing a 2009 law requiring “limited-service pregnancy
centers” to visibly disclose their stance on abortion and  birth
control . Another case is before a federal appeals court in  New
York .  The cases are Centro Tepeyac v. Montgomery County, 11-1314,
and Greater Baltimore Center for Pregnancy Concerns Inc. v.
Mayor and City Council of Baltimore, 11-1111,  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Fourth Circuit (Richmond); Evergreen Association
v. City of New York, 11-2735, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   aadunn8@bloomberg.net  