-- Printer Blames Hacking for Hong Kong Filings Mix-Up
-- B y   N i c k   G e n t l e   a n d   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2012-08-15T04:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/printer-blames-hacking-for-hong-kong-filings-mix-up-correct-.html
(Corrects share price in eighth paragraph.)  The erroneous filing of three
documents under the wrong companies’ tickers on the  Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. (BNWEXCH)  news website on Aug. 12 may have been
caused by hackers, the printing company involved said.  An unidentified person or people uploaded several documents
without authorization, A.Plus Financial Press Ltd. said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. The company said it immediately
informed the exchange and Hong Kong police.  The printer called earlier comments about the incident
“untrue rumors.” Hong Kong Exchanges, which earlier yesterday
said errors at the printer, not hackers, were behind the
mistake, said in a response to questions last night that it
understood “unauthorised persons” were responsible for the
submissions.  Lijun International Pharmaceutical Holding Ltd. (2005)  was
suspended from trading yesterday after its first-half financial
data were released in error. Lijun is scheduled to resume
trading today after publishing estimated earnings in a filing
yesterday, with a request that shareholders and potential
investors ignore the unauthorized release. The police are
investigating the incident, the company said.  Exchanges and their trading systems are under scrutiny
after computer errors halted transactions on parts of the Tokyo
Stock Exchange twice this year and an automatic-trading
malfunction drove Knight Capital Group to the brink of
bankruptcy.  Hong Kong  Exchanges suffered two days of attacks on
its website by hackers almost exactly one year before the Aug.
12 error.  Internal Control  This time, “the issue was not with our system, there were
mistakes made at the printer,” Henry Law, the bourse’s head of
corporate communications, said by telephone yesterday. “The
issue is one of internal control at the printers and at the
listed companies who have to authorize publication of the
documents.”  There are safeguards in place to prevent erroneous
publication of filings on Hong Kong Exchanges’ system, Law said.
Printers have a code for accessing the system and cannot upload
without the concerned company also entering its unique access
code as a final authorization, he said.  The bourse’s  shares  fell 1 percent to HK$106.50 at the
midday break today in Hong Kong. The city’s benchmark  Hang Seng
Index  dropped 1.3 percent.  Lijun International said in a filing on Aug. 13 that the
communications hadn’t been authorized by its board. Lijun said
it was told by the printer that the issue was due to “an
information security failure” that may have involved the upload
of passwords from other listed companies, according to the
statement.  In addition to the Lijun publication, documents relating to
a takeover of  G-Prop Holdings Ltd. (286)  were published under  Natural
Dairy N.Z. Holdings Ltd. (462) ’s ticker.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Gentle in Hong Kong at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Fellman in Vancouver at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  