-- Prosecco on Tap, Grilled Quail Amid 1,080 Fountains
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-08-15T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/prosecco-on-tap-grilled-quail-amid-1-080-fountains.html
It’s a space the size of  Trafalgar
Square . Instead of a single fountain, there are 1,080 water
jets. A pretty canal runs along one side. It’s home to one of
London’s newest restaurants, which also serves wonderful coffee.  And you may never have heard of it.  Granary Square , between King’s Cross and St. Pancras
stations, is built on an old railway goods yard that dates back
to the 1850s. The Regent’s Canal, built in the early 1800s, is
on one side, across from the Granary Building, from 1851.  The building, which in January  won the Mayor’s Award  for
Planning Excellence, is home to the new campus for  Central Saint
Martins  College of Art and Design, part of University of the
Arts  London . It’s also home to an outpost of Caravan, a
restaurant and coffee roastery owned by friends from New
Zealand.  “We were offered what I regard as a pretty unique
opportunity to expand our business in a brand new part of
London,” said Miles Kirby, 39, who founded the original Caravan
on Exmouth Market in Clerkenwell in 2010 with Chris Ammermann
and Laura Harper-Hinton.  “It’s a pretty old part of London but the development’s
exciting to us, in that there’s so much history here and there’s
no one here yet, so it’s a bit of a building site,” Kirby said
in an interview. “It just seems like a fun place to be and a
place with so much potential.”  Shrimpy’s -- a quirky restaurant in a former gas station --
has opened nearby, and French chef Bruno Loubet is in talks to
open a venue called Granary Square Kitchen & Bar, where he will
promote vegetables from garnish to star billing on most dishes,
and generally reduce the protein element on the plate.  Just Students  For now, Caravan, which opened on Monday, mostly has the
St. Martins students to itself. Kirby says he’s hoping they will
be attracted by an adventurous menu that reflects the fact he
was formerly head chef at the fusion restaurant Providores.  Fancy fried chicken with watermelon, pomegranate and chili?
How about a pizza with smoked trout, roasted eggplant, creme
fraiche and rocket? Or maybe you’d prefer grilled quail with
chickpea puree, sumac and charred lemon. Prosecco is on tap.  Kirby started his career back home in  New Zealand  at a
restaurant called Mondo Cucina in Wellington and worked in the
Netherlands before settling in London. Ammermann and Harper-
Hinton previously worked for the event caterers and party
planners  Urban Caprice . Kirby declined to discuss the cost of
setting up the restaurant.  How nervous is he about the new Caravan? Granary Square is
currently rather quiet, and the King’s Cross area has some way
to go before coming a big dining destination.  “Incredibly nervous,” he said. “It’s still a building
site. It’s not the footfall we have at Exmouth Market, so we’ve
got to rely on people coming to us, which is why we’ve got to
make sure that everyone who walks in the door is treated like a
VIP.  “The name Caravan derived from the fact that we are three
New Zealanders. We parked up in London for a while. Maybe we’ll
stay forever. Who knows? It depends if anyone moves us on.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  James
Russell  on architecture.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines, in London, at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 