-- Queen Elizabeth’s Husband Philip Taken to Scottish Hospital
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-08-15T16:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/queen-s-elizabeth-s-husband-philip-admitted-to-scottish-hospital.html
Prince Philip, the husband of
Britain’s Queen Elizabeth II, was admitted to a hospital in
Aberdeen,  Scotland , “as a precautionary measure,” the third
time he’s been hospitalized in eight months.  Philip, 91, was admitted to  Aberdeen Royal Infirmary  while
staying at Balmoral, the monarch’s Scottish residence where she
traditionally spends her summers,  Buckingham Palace  said in a
statement released through the Press Association newswire today.
No details were given of the state of health of the Duke of
Edinburgh, as Prince Philip is formally known. Balmoral is 47
miles (75 kilometers) from the hospital.  The development comes 2 1/2 months after Philip spent five
nights in a  London  hospital with a bladder infection following a
boat pageant on the  River Thames  to celebrate the queen’s
Diamond Jubilee, marking her 60 years on the throne.  Philip also had a coronary stent inserted for a blocked
artery in December after suffering chest pains, causing him to
miss the royal family’s Christmas celebrations. The prince began
to scale back his royal engagements when he turned 90 last year.  The queen, 86, was accompanied by her husband at the
opening ceremony of the London  Olympic Games  just under three
weeks ago. Their grandson, Prince Harry, represented the monarch
at the event that closed the games on Aug. 12. Philip watched
the equestrian three-day event during which his granddaughter,
 Zara Phillips , won a silver medal with the British team.  In 2009, Philip became the U.K.’s longest-serving royal
consort, surpassing the 57-year, 70-day record set by Queen
 Charlotte , wife of King George III, in the 18th and early 19th
centuries.  The queen and Prince Philip married on Nov. 20, 1947, in
London’s Westminster Abbey. Their eldest son, Prince Charles, is
next in line to the throne, and they have three other children,
Anne, Andrew and Edward.  The queen described Philip on their golden wedding
anniversary in 1997 as “my strength and stay all these years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  