-- Rajoy Risks Riling ECB in Bid to Avoid Union Ire: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-08-15T07:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/rajoy-risks-riling-ecb-in-bid-to-avoid-union-ire-euro-credit.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
risks irking the European policy makers he needs on his side
after he extended  unemployment benefits  to avoid stoking social
unrest.  Rajoy said yesterday his government will continue to make
payments to the long-term unemployed, extending for six months a
benefit adopted by his Socialist predecessor three years ago
that was due to expire today. Rajoy, who reiterated he may
consider seeking European help to tame 10-year bond yields
hovering near 7 percent, didn’t say how he’d pay for the measure
he described as “just.”  The premier is trying to head off protests from Europe’s
largest army of unemployed as his popular support sinks. The
plan to increase spending two weeks after European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  offered to wade back into bond markets
threatens to undermine his best way of bringing down borrowing
costs from near levels that prompted  Greece ,  Portugal  and  Spain 
to seek bailouts.  “He’s going to provoke an angry response and make the ECB
even less willing to provide support,” said  Stuart Thomson , a
 fund manager  at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow, who expects
Spain to seek external funds by the end of the year. “Why
poison the negotiations with resistance and decisions that will
annoy the northern Europeans?”  Strict Conditions  Spanish 10-year bond  yields  dropped 1 basis point to 6.72
percent as of 9:26 a.m. in  Madrid  today compared with 6.73
percent yesterday and a euro-era intraday record of 7.75 percent
on July 25. They have fallen 44 basis points since Aug. 2, when
Draghi said the ECB was prepared to buy sovereign bonds to bring
down yields if countries applied for similar support from
 Europe ’s rescue fund and accepted strict conditions. Rajoy said
the next day he would consider triggering the mechanism if it
were “in the best interest” of Spaniards. He reiterated those
comments yesterday.  ECB policy makers have complained that previous attempts by
the central bank to bring down borrowing costs have led
politicians to ease pledges to implement budget cuts and
measures to overhaul their economies. The ECB briefly bought
Spanish and Italian bonds last year.  “We haven’t forgotten what happened in August of last
year: We bought Italian bonds and right after that the Italian
government reneged on its pledges,” ECB Governing Council
member Luc Coene said in an interview with  De Tijd  and L’Echo on
Aug. 11 “The conclusion is clear: When you take away the market
pressure, you take away the pressure on politicians to act.”  Costs Unknown  Under the extension announced by Rajoy, Spaniards who have
run through as much as two years of contributions-based jobless
benefits will continue to receive 400 euros ($494) per month.
The government hasn’t given an estimate of the price tag of
extending the program, which cost 642 million euros for six
months at its inception in 2009 when the jobless rate was 18
percent. More than 200,000 people were getting the aid as of
June, the Labor Ministry said yesterday.  Rajoy popular support is slumping, while the two biggest
unions are talking about a “hot autumn,” starting with a
nationwide protest march to converge on Madrid on Sept. 15. A
poll published July 23 by newspaper El Mundo found that Rajoy’s
 People’s Party  would win 36 percent of the vote, down from 45
percent at the Nov. 20 general election.  Backing for the government, which has an outright majority
in Parliament, is declining as Spaniards suffer the third year
of spending cuts and a  deepening recession  that’s pushed the
 unemployment rate  to almost 25 percent, leaving 1.7 million
homes with no breadwinner.  The latest package of 65 billion euros of budget
reductions, announced after the European Union gave Spain an
extra year to meet its deficit goals, included trimming the main
jobless benefit and raising the value-added tax in breach of
Rajoy’s election pledges.  Deficit Goals  The government risked a “confrontation with the unions”
if it didn’t roll over the subsidy, said  Gilles Moec , co-chief
European economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . The payment
plan “probably isn’t central for Spanish public finances,” as
the nation aims to cut the  deficit  to 6.3 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 8.9 percent last year, he said.  “I would hope the ECB wouldn’t focus on that,” he said.  Rajoy’s track record with European colleagues and investors
may make the decision more important than it would be otherwise,
 Ken Wattret , chief European economist at BNP Paribas SA, said in
a telephone interview.  Rajoy surprised investors and European allies in March when
he unilaterally changed Spain’s deficit target hours after
signing a pact on budget coordination in the euro region. Calls
from members of his government for the ECB to buy the nation’s
bonds have also prompted criticism from central bank policy
makers for encroaching on the bank’s independence.  “The problem is that the government’s credibility has been
damaged by the way it’s handled a number of issues,” Wattret
said. “Something that ordinarily might be seen as unimportant
from the ECB’s perspective might be seen as more important now
because of the mistakes the government has made in the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  