-- Rand Set for Longest Losing Streak Since May on Easing Delay
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-08-15T14:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/rand-in-longest-losing-streak-since-may-before-retail-report.html
The rand weakened for a fifth day,
the longest losing streak in three months, and bond yields rose
to a one-month-high on speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will
delay more monetary stimulus that would debase the dollar.  The South African currency retreated as much as 0.4 percent
and traded 0.2 percent weaker at 8.2090 per dollar as of 3:57
p.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its decline in the past five days
to 1.5 percent. Yields on 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 climbed
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 6.91 percent,
set for the highest since July 13.  Stronger U.S. economic data have reduced the probability
that the Fed will announced a third round of bond-buying, known
as quantitative easing, at its policy meeting next month,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report. Industrial production
in the U.S. increased more than economists’ estimates in July, a
report showed today. Data yesterday showed American retail sales
grew more than forecast last month.  “The U.S. data has been reassuring,” Ian Cruickshanks,
head of treasury strategic research at Johannesburg-based
Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone. “There’s not going to be
promises of further liquidity injection into the market for some
time.”  The dollar gained against the euro and stocks and metal
prices declined.  South Africa ’s benchmark stock  index  fell as
shares in commodity producers including Anglo American Plc and
BHP Billiton Ltd. tumbled.  Retail Sales  The rand stayed weaker after data showed South African
retail sales rose at the fastest pace in six months in June,
reducing chances the central bank will cut its benchmark rate
for a second time.  Sales growth accelerated to 8.3 percent from a revised 7.1
percent in May, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa said on
its website today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
11 economists was 4.7 percent. Sales rose 1.9 percent from a
month earlier.  “Persistent shifts in domestic interest rate expectations
will continue to aggravate volatility in the local  currency
market ,” Bruce Donald, a currency strategist at Johannesburg-
based  Standard Bank  Group Ltd., wrote in e-mailed comments.  The South African Reserve Bank cut its benchmark interest
rate by 50 basis points to 5 percent on July 19, citing the
slowing global economy. The Monetary Policy Committee meets
starting Sept. 18 to assess borrowing costs.  Forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on  interest
rates , are pricing in less than a 35 percent chance of a rate
cut within the next six months, Donald wrote. Three weeks ago,
the contracts implied a 70 percent chance of a cut. Standard
Bank expects the central bank to leave its repo rate unchanged
in this period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  