-- Ratch-Australia Plans to Spend A$1 Billion on Acquisitions, Wind
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-08-15T00:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/ratch-australia-plans-to-spend-a-1-billion-on-acquisitions-wind.html
Ratch-Australia Corp., 80 percent-
owned by  Thailand ’s  Ratchaburi Electricity Generating Holding
Pcl (RATCH) , plans to spend A$1 billion ($1.1 billion) in the next three
years buying  power plants  and building wind farms.  Ratch-Australia is considering acquisitions of coal- and
gas-fired power stations and renewable energy projects as
uncertainty about the government’s price on  carbon emissions  and
lower wholesale electricity prices pushes asset values down,
Steve Loxton, chief executive officer of the Sydney-based
company, said yesterday in a phone interview. The company also
may bid on New South Wales-owned power generators when the state
government puts the stations up for sale, he said.  “I’d rather be buying now than when times are particularly
strong,” Loxton said. “If there are large generation assets
for sale, we’d definitely take a look. There don’t appear to be
many parties wanting to play in that space.”  While Australia last month started charging polluters a
fixed rate of A$23 a metric ton for their carbon emissions,
opposition leader  Tony Abbott  has vowed to scrap the program
should his Liberal-National coalition win power in 2013.
Australia has set a target of generating 20 percent of its power
from renewable energy by 2020 to cut its reliance on coal.  The Australian power producer, 20 percent-owned by
 Transfield Services Ltd. (TSE) , is also seeking New South Wales state
approval for the Collector wind farm and expects to complete
financing for the venture in the second half of next year, he
said. Collector, and the proposed Mt. Emerald and High Road wind
farms in Queensland, are the three most advanced of about a
dozen potential wind projects for the company, Loxton said.  The Collector wind farm is estimated to cost A$350 million
and start in late 2015, said Loxton, whose company owns three
wind farms in  Australia . If all of Ratch-Australia’s proposed
wind projects were built, the investment would climb to more
than A$3 billion in the next 10 years, he said.  Collinsville Options  Australia requires retailers to purchase renewable energy
certificates from generators, providing an incentive to wind and
solar developers. An oversupply of the certificates reduced spot
prices to about A$35 this year, compared with a price of more
than A$50 needed for most wind farms to be viable, according to
a June 29 Bloomberg New Energy Finance report.  “As the industry ramps up to the meet the target, we see
the market improving,” Loxton said. “What it’s meant is that
developers of wind farms have to more rigorously review their
projects and make sure only the best ones get through.”  Ratch-Australia is still in talks with the Australian
government to close the  Collinsville  coal-fired power station in
Queensland, he said. The company is studying options to convert
Collinsville to a gas-fired station, a hybrid solar thermal
plant or a solar photovoltaic plant, while evaluating whether to
continue burning coal at the site, Loxton said.  Australia, which relies on coal to generate about 80
percent of its electricity, announced plans last year to pay to
shut down as much as 2,000 megawatts of coal-fired capacity by
2020 as part of the legislation to curb emissions.  The government, which expected to sign contracts by June
30, needs more time to reach agreements and will continue
discussions with the operators of the Hazelwood, Yallourn,
Playford, Energy Brix and Collinsville power stations,
Australian Energy Minister  Martin Ferguson  said June 29.  Among the assets Ratch-Australia is considering buying are
the New South Wales state power generators, Loxton said. The
state government last month appointed Goldman Sachs Australia
Pty as an adviser for the sale, expected to bring in proceeds of
about A$3 billion, Treasurer Mike Baird said on May 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  