-- Rejuvenating India’s Growth
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-15T22:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/re-imagining-india-s-growth-miracle.html
Is  India ’s growth miracle coming to
an end? Sadly, and despite the nation’s vast untapped potential,
the answer may well be yes.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  had a chance to dispel the
pessimism on Wednesday, and wasted it. His  address  from  New
Delhi ’s Red Fort to celebrate India’s 65th birthday as an
independent nation was a moment to convince the country of the
need for a new round of economic reform, the cause he first
championed 20 years ago as finance minster. Nobody was surprised
that the speech was low-key: Singh is calm and quiet to a fault.
Even so it was a letdown. Heavy on generalities and devoid of
details, it conveyed no sense of purpose or urgency, two things
India badly needs.  Before the reforms that began in 1991, India had grown
sluggishly for decades, even as  China’s economy  had soared.
Complacent politicians blamed democracy. Change was hard, they
said. India couldn’t hope to match an authoritarian state when
it came to growth.  Singh and the other reformers proved them wrong.
They dismantled the so-called License Raj -- a system of permits
and controls that told the country’s industrialists exactly what
to make and how -- and they eased restrictions on foreign trade.
The  growth rate  doubled to 9 percent and stayed there. World-
class companies appeared from nowhere, and poverty retreated
faster than ever before.  The miracle began to fade in 2009, not just because of the
global recession. Last year the  economy grew  by 6.5 percent --
halfway back to the “Hindu rate of growth” that an earlier
generation of leaders deemed depressingly adequate. The  World
Bank  and other development agencies, and many Indian business
leaders, say the country should still be growing at 9 percent or
10 percent a year, and they’re right.  Growth is  faltering  because the first great surge of reform
petered out. The public sector remained a crushing fiscal
burden, through an unfathomable array of badly targeted
subsidies. The direct cost of food, energy and other supports is
 nearly 10 percent  of gross domestic product. Their indirect cost
is enormous, too. Subsidies on such a scale invite corruption,
 which is worsening , spurring the populist reform movements of
 Anna Hazare  and others. Subsidies can also deter private
investment, a main cause of the power cuts that blacked out half
the country this month.  Crowded out by the cost of subsidies, pressing
infrastructure needs go unmet. The tax system is complicated and
unpredictable. Recently the government broke its promise to let
foreigners  compete in retailing , a sector crying out for
modernization. Many industries continue to be heavily regulated.  Singh understands all this and made glancing reference to
it in his Independence Day speech: “To attract foreign capital,
we will have to create confidence at the international level
that there are no barriers to investment in India.” Yet he
offered no specifics.  Far from promising to unravel the Subsidy Raj, he took
credit for the outlays needed to advance it: seed subsidies,
fuel subsidies, housing subsidies, you-name-it subsidies, a bank
account for every household, electricity for every household. Oh
yes. There’ll also be room in the budget for a  Mars orbiter
mission .  The prime minister blamed a lack of political consensus for
recent policy reversals and slowing growth -- an echo of the
favorite excuse from the pre-reform era. He’s right. He leads a
turbulent coalition, shares de facto power with  Sonia Gandhi ,
and is opposed at every turn by the Hindu-populist  Bharatiya
Janata Party .  It’s hard to be India’s prime minister, all right, but
leaders have to build consensus, and Singh is failing. In the
early 1990s, an economic crisis provided the initial momentum to
the reform program. Today’s sluggish growth is disappointing,
but it isn’t an emergency, so a different case for reform is
needed, one based on an undisguised commitment to market forces
and private enterprise. A constituency receptive to this case
now exists thanks to the flowering of Indian business since
1991.  Two recent appointments offer a glimmer of optimism. Singh
has reinstated Palaniappan Chidambaram, a  veteran reformer , as
his new finance minister and hired  Raghuram Rajan  of the
University of Chicago’s  Booth School of Business  as his  economic
adviser . Intellectually, this triumvirate is convinced of the
need for fiscal discipline, investment in crumbling
infrastructure and renewed economic reform -- and investors know
it. They know, too, that turning those ideas into action is the
problem.  India’s leaders solved it once, and must solve it again.
The first step is for Singh to pick a fight he can win, and use
it to announce a new phase of reform. Letting foreign investors
enter retailing is the perfect place to start. The government’s
retreat on the issue signaled weakness; that message needs to be
reversed. The economic case in favor is strong and, crucially,
can be cast in populist terms: A more competitive retail sector
would drive down prices of food and other goods, so the policy
is pro-poor.  It won’t be an easy fight, but settling for paralysis could
unwind the achievements of the past 20 years. Avoiding that
tragedy is worth a few risks.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  messy Medicare debate ;
 Jonathan Alter  on  Paul Ryan’s gift  to Democrats;  Caroline Baum 
on why conservatives  don’t mind meddling  in private affairs;
 Ezra Klein  on how Ryan could be  Democrats’ worst nightmare ;
Jonathan Mahler on the U.S. popularity of  European soccer ; Adam
Kirsch on the  politics of personal destruction  in “Advise and
Consent”; Russell G. Ryan on giving the Securities and Exchange
Commission  too much power .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 