-- Treasury Yields Rise to Almost 3-Month High Before CPI
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-08-15T21:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/treasury-yields-rise-to-almost-12-week-high-before-cpi.html
Treasuries fell, sending 10-year
yields toward the highest in almost three months, as signs of
improvement in the  U.S. economy  damped speculation the  Federal
Reserve  will expand monetary stimulus as soon as next month.  Benchmark 10-year notes declined for a third day as a
report showed that industrial production in the U.S. increased
more than forecast in July. Central bank policy makers said Aug.
1 they would provide more stimulus as needed and would monitor
developments “closely.”  “We definitely have seen some better economic numbers and
it’s put a dent in QE3 expectations,” said  Thomas Roth , senior
Treasury trader in New York at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc. “The market’s at risk for the first time in a long time.”  Ten-year  yields  rose eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
point, to 1.82 percent at 5:02 p.m. New York time, after
touching the highest since May 16, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The price of the 1.625 percent security due in
August 2022 fell 22/32, or $6.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 98
1/4. Thirty-year yields gained as much as nine basis points to
2.92 percent, the highest level since May 17.  Ten-year yields have climbed from the record low of 1.38
percent on July 25 amid signs the economy is picking up. Since
then, securities maturing in 10-years or longer have posted a
loss of 5 percent, compared with a 1.4 percent decline for all
 U.S. government debt  from then through Aug. 14, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Global Impact  Yields on Treasuries are rising along with those of
sovereign credits around the world.  German 10-year bond yields rose to the highest in more than
six weeks after  European Economic  and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  signaled  Spain  is weighing a request for
a sovereign bailout. German government spokesman Steffen Seibert
said  Chancellor Angela Merkel  will meet with Greek Prime
Minister Antonis Samaras next week to discuss  Greece ’s bailout
and all options will be put “onto the table.”  “It’s really not the U.S. that’s driving rates,” said
Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist at BNP Paribas SA in
New York, one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the central
bank. “The reality is it’s  Europe .”  U.K. government bonds slid for a third day, pushing yields
to the most in more than five-weeks, after jobless claims
unexpectedly fell in July, damping demand for the safety of
fixed-income assets.  Economic Output  The gap between yields on Treasuries maturing in two and 10
years reached 1.52 percentage points, the most since May 16.  The 10-year term premium, a model created by economists at
the Fed that includes expectations for  interest rates , growth
and inflation, rose to negative 0.73 percent, the highest since
May 7. It reached negative 1.02 percent on July 24, the most
expensive level on record. A negative reading indicates
investors are willing to accept yields below what’s considered
fair value.  Industrial production increased 0.6 percent in July
following a revised 0.1 percent gain in June that was smaller
than previously reported, Fed data showed today in  Washington .
Economists forecast a 0.5 percent rise, according to the
Bloomberg survey median. Manufacturing, which makes up about 75
percent of total production, rose 0.5 percent for a second
month.  “It’s a weak number, but I think there are still people
who, especially with the retail sales and payrolls data, think
QE3 may not be coming in September,” said Justin Lederer, an
interest rate strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in  New York , a
primary dealer. “Even as weak as today is, it doesn’t feel like
it’s a major game changer.”  Economic Data  The U.S. added 163,000 jobs last month, a government report
showed on Aug. 3, more than the 100,000 projected by analysts.
Retail sales rose 0.8 percent, the biggest increase since
February, Commerce Department figures showed yesterday.  The Fed, which said this month that housing “remains
depressed,” failed to announce further action to boost the
economy after an Aug. 1 meeting. While a JPMorgan survey the
prior week had found almost 80 percent of mortgage investors
forecasted a new round of buying, 6 percent of respondents
expected the decision at the meeting.  “Our own view remains that there is a very solid case for
additional accommodation under the Fed’s dual mandate of maximum
employment and 2 percent inflation,”  Jan Hatzius , chief
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York, wrote in the
report yesterday “While QE3 at the Sept. 12-13 Federal Open
Market Committee meeting remains possible, our best estimate is
that it will take until late 2012, early 2013 before Fed
officials return to balance-sheet expansion.”  Inflation Pace  A separate report showed the cost of living in the U.S. was
little changed in July for a second month, showing companies
lack pricing power.  The consumer-price index capped a 1.4 percent gain over the
past 12 months, the smallest year-to-year increase since
November 2010, the Labor Department data showed. The median
forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for
an increase of 0.2 percent. The core index, which excludes
volatile food and fuel costs, rose less than forecast.  “When you have a lot of people talking about QE and the
type of effect QE will have on inflation, this takes some of the
wind out of their sails,” said  Scott Sherman , an interest-rate
strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York, a primary
dealer. “If you’ve got weaker price pressures, it’s easier to
support growth under the dual mandate.”  Cost Measure  The difference between 10-year yields on Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities and conventional U.S. government
securities narrowed to 2.27 percentage points. It has climbed
from as low as 1.98 percentage points on July 26. The spread
represents the expected rate of price gains for the life of the
debt.  Foreign holdings of Treasuries rose $34.2 billion or 0.7
percent in June to a record $5.29 trillion, Treasury data showed
today. Overseas investors held 50.3 percent of the outstanding
public debt of the U.S., the most since November.  The Fed sold $7.8 billion of notes due from February 2014
to August 2014 today, according to the  website  of its New York
branch. The sales are part of the central bank’s effort to
support the economy by swapping shorter-term Treasuries in its
holdings for securities due in six to 30 years to cap long-term
borrowing costs, in what has become known as Operation Twist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  