-- Resolution CEO Tiner to Retire as Firm Abandons Sale Plans
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-08-15T09:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/resolution-ceo-tiner-to-retire-as-firm-abandons-sale-plans-1-.html
Resolution Ltd. (RSL) , the insurance
buyout firm founded by  Clive Cowdery , abandoned plans to sell
businesses on the public markets and said John Tiner, head of
its management company, will retire.  The boards of publicly traded Resolution Ltd., management
firm Resolution Operations and Friends Life, the operating
insurance business, will be overhauled as Andy Briggs becomes
chief executive officer, the Guernsey, Channel Islands-based
company said today. The firm scrapped its return target, said it
won’t make any more acquisitions and reported lower earnings.  The stock  rose as much as 8.8 percent in  London , erasing
its drop since the company scrapped plans to return 250 million
pounds ($392 million) to shareholders on July 20. Cowdery
created Resolution in 2008 to buy, merge and sell U.K. life
insurers. After buying three firms, including  Friends Provident ,
it fell short of its initial target of purchasing businesses
with a combined embedded value of about 10 billion pounds.  “It removes some of the overhang of deal risks and
potential for capital raises, and it removes question marks over
the corporate-governance structure,” said Matthew Preston, a
London-based analyst at Berenberg Bank with a hold rating on the
stock. “Now it becomes very much more like a traditional U.K.
life insurer.”  No Acquisitions  The  European debt crisis  and changes to how insurers’
capital is regulated made it more difficult to squeeze cash from
the acquired companies’ funds and sell firms on the public
markets. Resolution had planned to sell shares in its open and
closed life insurance businesses separately by 2014, thereby
achieving a mid-teens percentage annual return for investors.  So-called open life-insurance companies sell policies to
new customers, while closed books are collections of policies
that profit by releasing capital as they run off over time.  “It’s the end of the acquisition phase that started in
2009, which was to buy companies with the expectation that other
companies would become available during this period,” Cowdery
said on a conference call. “In markets as poor as this, people
aren’t selling, and as you’ve seen with our comments on the
exit, nor should we.”  The shares rose 6.3 percent to 233.9 pence at 9:51 a.m. in
London trading, valuing the firm at about 3.3 billion pounds.
Resolution is still the second-worst performer in the  FTSE ASX
Life Insurance Index (FALIFE)  this year.  It has fallen 40 percent since it began trading in 2008.
The share price would need to reach 275.6 pence for the
company’s initial investors to break even, given subsequent
rights offerings.  Management Company  Cowdery, who made a personal fortune of at least 100
million pounds buying and selling closed life funds between 2003
and 2007, led Resolution Operations as it charged fees to advise
Resolution Ltd., in which he was also an investor, on deals.
Resolution Operations will stop charging fees to Resolution Ltd.
and will continue to seek acquisitions as a separate, privately-
owned entity.  The changes will comply with new U.K. rules on companies
that are managed by external entities, Cowdery said on the call.  Tiner, a former head of Britain’s  Financial Services
Authority , will retire as CEO of Resolution Operations, where he
headed implementation of the firm’s strategy. Briggs, the former
CEO of Scottish Widows and current head of Friends Life, will
replace Tiner as chief of the combined firm, and the companies
will merge their boards with the board of Friends Life.  Odds ‘Stacked’  The company has no plans to give up its Guernsey domicile,
Chief Financial Officer Jim Newman said on the call, where he
also said the rate-of-return target had been scrapped.  First-half operating profit dropped 58 percent to 163
million pounds, missing the 179 million-pound median estimate of
six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The odds of a turnaround are stacked against them, with a
portfolio of weak companies with poor track records,”  Marcus Barnard , a London-based analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. who
rates Resolution hold, wrote in a note to clients. The changes
take place “against a backdrop of rapidly changing regulation
and distribution, low  interest rates , low gross domestic product
growth, poor  consumer confidence  and unhelpful equity markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  