-- Rice Harvest in India Set to Drop as Drought Curbs Sowing
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-08-16T12:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/rice-harvest-in-india-set-to-decline-as-drought-curbs-planting.html
Rice production  in  India , the
world’s second-biggest grower, is poised to slump from a record
as the worst monsoon since 2009 reduces planting, potentially
lowering exports and boosting global prices.  The monsoon-sown harvest may be between 5 million metric
tons and 7 million tons below a record 91.5 million tons a year
earlier, said P.K. Joshi, director for the South Asia region at
the Washington-based  International Food Policy Research
Institute . Production of food grains, including corn and
lentils, may slide as much as 12 percent from 129.9 million tons
a year earlier, he said.  Rice has rallied 6.3 percent in Chicago since the end of
May on prospects for a lower Indian crop and export curbs,
adding to global food costs that the United Nations estimates
jumped 6.2 percent in July. Corn and soybeans have soared to
records as the worst U.S. drought in half a century killed
crops. Global rice production this year will be smaller than
previously forecast, according to the UN’s Food & Agriculture
Organization.  “A lot of importing countries looking toward India for
more competitive prices are likely to shift to  Thailand  or
 Vietnam ,”  Abah Ofon , an analyst at Standard Chartered Plc, said
by phone from  Singapore . “If we see a drop in India’s rice
output, it is not going to have a significant impact on global
inventories. There may be slight moderation in exports.”  Export Restrictions  World reserves may touch 102 million tons by the end of the
season, the most in at least five years, according to the
London-based International Grains Council. Thailand is building
the biggest stockpile in at least five decades after Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra began a policy in October of buying
from farmers at above-market rates. Stockpiles may reach 12.1
million tons in 2012-2013, says the U.S. government.  A decline in output may prompt India to regulate exports,
said Harish Galipelli, vice president at Kochi-based JRG Wealth
Management Ltd., which advises traders. The government may
either impose volume limits or fix a minimum benchmark export-
price in October when crop outlook will be clearer, he said.  India exported about 5.7 million tons of non-basmati rice
as of July 20 after a ban on exports was lifted in September,
according to the food ministry. State reserves may help the
country check the increase in prices, IFPRI’s Joshi said.  Rough-rice for delivery in September fell 0.3 to $15.115
per 100 pounds on the  Chicago  Board of Trade at 5:29 p.m. Mumbai
time.  Food Crisis  The world may face a food crisis very soon as drought
parches corn crops in the U.S., IFPRI’s director-general
Shenggen Fan said Aug. 14. Corn surged to a record $8.49 a
bushel on Aug. 10.  The FAO on Aug. 6 cut its estimate for India’s crop by 9.8
million tons to 147.7 million tons of unmilled rice on “slow
and erratic advancement” of the southwest monsoon.  The deficient rainfall will not have any major impact on
the rice output, Harish Rawat, junior farm minister, said in New
Delhi today. Food grain production this year may exceed the
218.1 million tons harvested in 2009-2010, when the nation was
hit by the worst monsoon since 1972, he said.  The June-September  monsoon rains  are forecast to be 85
percent of a 50-year average, according to  India Meteorological
Department . Rainfall was 15 percent less than normal between
June 1 and Aug. 15, department data showed.  “Policy makers have tools to reduce the impact, but the
drought comes at a difficult time with inflation running high,
growth sluggish, and the fiscal space limited,” Leif Eskesen,
Singapore-based chief economist for India and  Southeast Asia  at
HSBC Holdings Plc, said in a report. “This means policy makers
will have to walk a tightrope.”  India should import  edible oils  and pulses to meet a
shortage, IFPRI’s Joshi said. Inflationary pressure will be
there for pulses, oils, vegetables, milk and meat, he said.  The  wholesale-price index  in July rose 6.87 percent from a
year earlier, after climbing 7.25 percent in June, the Commerce
Ministry said on Aug. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  