-- Rio Unit Pays $19.4 Million to Cancel Ex-CEO Contracts
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-08-17T07:42:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/rio-unit-pays-19-4-million-to-cancel-ex-ceo-s-flight-costs-1-.html
(Corrects headline of story published Aug. 15 to show
contracts refer to additional costs as well as aircraft rental.)  Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) ,
building a Mongolian  copper mine  with  Rio Tinto  Group, paid
$19.4 million to cancel cost-sharing deals with companies linked
to former Chief Executive Officer Robert Friedland.  “These arrangements were on a cost-recovery basis and
included aircraft rental and administration and other office
services” in London and Singapore, Turquoise, formerly Ivanhoe
Mines Ltd. and 51 percent  owned  by London-based Rio, said in a
statement dated yesterday. The deals were with companies 100
percent owned by Friedland, it said.  Turquoise also paid $17.8 million in severance payments to
the former management team and booked a non-cash charge of $24
million related to the acceleration of vesting stock options
held by former management, it said.  Friedland, who founded Ivanhoe, controls about 10 percent
of Vancouver-based Turquoise, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. He resigned as CEO in April, three months after Rio
raised its stake in Ivanhoe to 51 percent, allowing it to
replace managers.  Turquoise and Rio expect production from Mongolia’s $6.2
billion Oyu Tolgoi mine in the first half of next year. They
plan to complete talks on a $3 billion to $4 billion finance
package for the project by the end of the year, according to the
statement.  Seven directors --  Marc Faber , Edward Flood, Friedland,
David Korbin, Livia Mahler, Tracy Stevenson and Dan Westbrook --
resigned from the Turquoise board in April. Three others --
 Michael Gordon , David Huberman and Bob Holland -- resigned a
month later. A spokesman for Rio Tinto declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  