-- Rosemary’s $80 Steak, Warm Wines Not Worth Wait: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-08-15T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/rosenmary-s-89-steak-warm-wines-not-worth-wait-review.html
There was a 10-minute line just to
get to Rosemary’s host last Thursday, a no-reservations
restaurant where the prosecco flows from the tap like  Miller
Lite .  She told us a table was still 90-minutes away.  This is the slammed state of affairs at Carlos Suarez’s
latest New York hotspot.  It’s not worth the wait, though the scenery’s impressive.  Floor-to-ceiling windows overlook  Manhattan ’s West Village.
Rosemary’s has its own roof garden, which you can see for
yourself when you get lost looking for the restroom. And the
female-to-male ratio was so high that one might mistake
Rosemary’s for an NYU sorority house.  You can’t blame a restaurant for being popular.  But who pays $80 these days for dry-aged strip steaks that
have none of the flavor such aging should confer?  Thanks to its minifarm, Rosemary’s sends out good tomatoes
and basil. They’re lovely alone, or served warm with mozzarella
and focaccia. The mint is grown on the roof too; it makes your
cavatelli with mushy peas taste as though it was flavored with
toothpaste.  Call Me?  Unlike most popular walk-in spots, Rosemary’s won’t take
your contact info after you’ve signed in, or give you a beeper
so you can hunt down a decent drink and maybe relief from the
noise, which is already starting to make your ears buzz.  A bartender ferries over a $5 ramekin of olives, too warm
to enjoy, and $7 cheese sandwiches that taste like sales-meeting
leftovers.  Rosemary’s wine list is admirable in theory. All bottles on
the non-reserve list are $40; all glasses are $10. Poured into
fat-lipped stems, jammy reds arrive at near-room temperature,
while whites by the bottle get warm because your server fails to
offer a chill bucket.  Chef Wade Moises, late of Babbo, is not without skills. His
destination dish is octopus salami ($8), razor thin slices of
the cephalopod gelled together into a cool, briny, maritime
aspic. Tamer types will opt for soft cubes of tuna drenched in
olive oil ($8).  No one, however, will enjoy the over-poached shrimp.  Sleepy Pasta  Pastas taste of boredom: Spaghetti al pomodoro ($12);
linguini with preserved lemon both snooze. Orecchiette, with its
starchy sauce and clean, salty sausage ($14) is much better.  Three mains, each meant to serve two, should be bypassed.
The $70 carne misti is so-so poussin and pork ribs; if only the
smoked lamb shoulder was a stand-alone entree. Acqua pazza
($55), a stew of orata, mussels, shrimp and squid, lacks the
aromatic depth of flavor you might find in a good bouillabaisse.
And the $80 strip steak, while expertly charred, has none of the
heady mineral taste that you might encounter at Minetta Tavern
or The Dutch.  The best entree is the $22 porchettina, a musky, medium-
rare pork tenderloin wrapped in even muskier pancetta.  Plant lovers can order a very good $16 minestrone whose
lack of acid is compensated for by the aromas of carrots,
asparagus and radishes.  Skip dessert. Tiramisu, with no coffee flavor or rich
mascarpone thump, tastes like a recipe cribbed from the back of
a  Reddi wip  can.  Two bills might come when you ask for the check: One from
the bar; one from the restaurant. If the European Union can
unite the economies of an entire continent, Suarez can surely
adopt a joint accounting system for his single, silly space.  Rating: *  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Dishes range from $5 to $80.  Sound Level: Very loud, often over 80 decibels.  Date Place: Pick up place; no hard alcohol.  Inside Tip: Go late for no wait.  Special Feature: Champagnes start at $115 on reserve list.  Back on My Own Dime: Nope.  Rosemary’s is at 18 Greenwich Ave. Information: +1-212-647-
1818;  http://www.rosemarysnyc.com .  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and
 Warwick Thompson  on opera.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 