-- Russian Growth Forecast Cut by Morgan Stanley on Global Slowdown
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-08-15T14:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/russian-growth-forecast-cut-by-morgan-stanley-on-global-slowdown.html
Russia ’s economy will expand slower
than previously estimated this year and next as demand for the
country’s export goods in  China  and  Europe  wanes and the global
economy faces a deeper downturn, according to Morgan Stanley.  Gross domestic product  will advance 4.2 percent this year
and 3.7 percent in 2013, Morgan Stanley economists Jacob Nell
and Alina Slyusarchuk said today in an e-mailed note. The bank
previously forecast growth of 5 percent and 4 percent.  The world’s largest energy exporter is relying on domestic
consumption as Europe’s debt crisis and a slowdown in China sap
demand for raw materials. Russia’s economic expansion at 4
percent in the second quarter was the slowest in a year. The
government may revise up this year’s growth projection to 3.8
percent to 4 percent, from 3.4 percent, Economy Minister Andrei
Belousov said last month.  “The slowdown -- in particular its sharpness -- was a
surprise,” Moscow-based Nell and London-based Slyusarchuk said.
“Global linkages have hit trade and confidence.”  The main channel of contagion would be through lower  oil
prices  and a weaker ruble, leading households to reduce spending
and increase savings while companies run down inventories, the
economists said.  Urals crude , Russia’s chief export blend, is
down almost 9 percent since this year’s peak of $125.26 a barrel
in March, trading at $114.24 today.  Even so, growth may rebound in the next two quarters as a
strong labor market supports  consumer spending  and an investment
pick-up after the formation of a new Cabinet following May’s
presidential election and Russia’s entry in the World Trade
Organization boost confidence, the economists wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  