-- Russia’s Industry Growth Reaches Two-Month High, Beats Forecasts
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-08-15T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/russia-s-industry-growth-reaches-two-month-high-beats-forecasts.html
Russian  industrial production  grew
at the fastest pace in two months in July, beating economist
forecasts as manufacturing accelerated.  Output at factories, mines and utilities expanded 3.4
percent from a year earlier, up from 1.9 percent in June, the
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said by e-mail today. The
median of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg  survey  was for 2.5 percent
growth. Manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace since
February.  The economy of the world’s largest energy exporter is
weathering the debt crisis in the euro area, which accounts for
about half of its trade, with domestic demand powering growth of
4 percent from a year earlier in the second quarter. Indicators
of sentiment among Russian producers and consumers remain
“fairly positive,” the central bank said Aug. 10.  “Domestic demand remains exceptionally strong, mainly
because budget policy served as a stimulus at the start of the
year,” Alexey Pogorelov, an economist at Credit Suisse AG in
Moscow, said before the report.  The Micex Index of 30 stocks fell 1.8 percent to 1,435.93
as of 3:32 p.m. in Moscow. The ruble-denominated benchmark gauge
has advanced 2.4 percent this year, lagging behind a 6.2 percent
gain for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Manufacturing saw the biggest advance in July, with output
growing 5.7 percent from a year earlier, up from 3.4 in June,
the service said. Production at mines advanced 0.9 percent in
July, from 0.2 percent in June. Output growth at utilities
slowed to 0.8 percent from 2.1 percent in June.  GM, Volkswagen  Sales of cars and light commercial vehicles grew 14 percent
in July, matching the fastest pace since February, according to
the Association of European Businesses in  Russia . Foreign brands
such as  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) 
posted the biggest advances, while OAO AvtoVAZ’s Lada had a 7
percent decline in sales from a year ago.  OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel , Russia’s largest miner, reduced
second-quarter output of nickel by 8 percent from the previous
quarter, the company said July 30 in a statement. U.S.
steelmaker  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  predicted last month that growth would be
slower in Russia as European demand remains uncertain and prices
are low.  Economic output in the euro region contracted 0.2 percent
in the second quarter. That, together with slowing growth in
China, will constrain Russian industry, said Vladimir Miklashevsky, a Helsinki-based economist at  Danske Bank A/S. (DANSKE)   ‘Only Support’  “The only support may come from manufacturing industries
which are oriented toward domestic consumers,” he said by e-
mail before the release. Companies such as carmakers and food
producers focused on the local market will probably be the
strongest performers, he said.  The central bank left  interest rates  unchanged for an
eighth month on Aug. 10, saying monetary conditions had
tightened and factors outside its control were spurring
inflation.  Policy makers said in their statement a slowdown in
industrial production last month doesn’t pose a risk of a
broader economic deceleration because second-quarter
manufacturing growth was strong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  