-- S&P May Raise Colombia Credit Rating as Growth Buoys Revenue
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-08-15T22:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/s-p-may-raise-colombia-credit-rating-as-growth-buoys-revenue.html
Colombia’s foreign debt rating may
be raised by  Standard & Poor’s  as economic growth in the Andean
country increases revenue and leads to lower debt levels.  S&P rates Colombia BBB-, the lowest level of investment
grade. The outlook on Colombia’s  credit rating  was moved to
positive from stable, the agency said in a statement today.  “A gradually declining debt burden, combined with
continuity in key economic policies in coming years, could
sustain GDP growth, strengthen the resilience of the Colombian
economy, and reduce its vulnerability to external shocks,
leading to a higher rating,” Joydeep Mukherji, an S&P analyst,
said in the statement.  Colombia won an investment-grade credit rating last year
for the first time since 1999 as improved security bolstered
economic growth and attracted record foreign investment.
Congress in 2011 passed legislation, known as the fiscal rule,
allowing the nation to save part of the windfall it receives
during times of rising commodity prices.  Colombia ’s budget deficit may narrow to 1 percent of gross
domestic product this year, below the government’s 1.2 percent
target, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said yesterday.
Foreign direct investment in Colombia will likely rise to a
record $17 billion this year, Echeverry said earlier this month.  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings also rate
Colombia’s foreign debt at the lowest level of investment grade
and both have a stable outlook on the rating.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold Colombia dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 7 basis points to 118
basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index.  “Colombia’s fiscal performance has been improving at an
impressive pace,” Bret Rosen, a Latin America strategist at
Standard Chartered Bank in  New York , said in a phone interview.
“Colombia is a positive story and this shines light on its
achievements.”  Colombia’s central bank on July 27 reversed course and
unexpectedly cut borrowing costs for the first time since 2010
to buoy growth as the  European debt crisis  hurts export revenue.
The bank also lowered its 2012 economic growth forecast to 3
percent to 5 percent from 4 percent to 6 percent.  The cost of insuring Colombian debt against non-payment for
five years stood at 113.64 today, below that of Brazil at 127.06
and above  Mexico  at 111.46, according to CMA, which is owned by
CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
privately negotiated markets.  S&P rates both  Brazil  and Mexico BBB, which is one level
above Colombia’s BBB-.  “The market has confidence in the government,” said
Rosen. Colombia’s CDS nearing Mexico and trading below Brazil,
“shows the market was already pricing in the move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  