-- Sanford Convicted of Dumping Oily Waste in U.S. Waters
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-08-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/sanford-convicted-of-dumping-oily-waste-in-u-s-waters.html
Sanford Ltd. (SAN) , New Zealand’s second-
biggest fishing company, was convicted in a U.S. court in
 Washington  of dumping oil waste at sea and covering up its
actions.  A federal jury yesterday found that a Sanford vessel, the
San Nikunau, which routinely delivered tuna to  American Samoa ,
discharged oily bilge waste into the sea around the island since
at least 2007. The Auckland-based company was also convicted of
conspiracy, presenting false documents and deceiving the U.S.
Coast Guard, exposing the company to fines of as much as $3
million. Sanford was acquitted of obstructing justice.  The chief engineer of the San Nikunau, James Pouge, 52, was
convicted of violating international shipping law by failing to
keep an accurate record book and of obstruction of justice. He
faces a possible 20-year sentence. He was acquitted of allegedly
directing the ship’s crew to dump waste directly into the sea.
U.S. District Judge Beryl Howell set sentencing for Nov. 16.  “The prosecution demonstrates our commitment to enforcing
environmental laws and protecting our precious natural
resources,” U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen said in a statement.  The verdict was “naturally disappointing,” Sanford
Managing Director Eric Barratt said in a statement to the  New
Zealand  stock exchange. The case, he said, “highlights the need
to work diligently to properly maintain the required logs and
records regarding the management of oily wastes aboard
vessels.”  Maritime Rules  The U.S. belongs to an international  convention  that
regulates discharges of oil from ships. The U.S enforces the Act
to Prevent Pollution From Ships in waters under its
jurisdiction, including those around American Samoa and the port
of Pago Pago, where the San Nikunau ended its fishing voyages.  The U.S. charged Sanford with telling the San Nikunau’s
crew to dump the ship’s bilge waste directly into the ocean,
rather than first passing it through pollution control
equipment, according to the indictment.  The ship’s former chief engineer, Rolando Ong Vano, pleaded
guilty April 18 to covering up environmental crimes. In the plea
agreement, the engineer said it was routine practice by the
company to discharge oily bilge waste into the sea, bypassing
cleanup equipment. He admitted to falsifying the oil record book
and lying to Coast Guard inspectors, according to court filings.  The case is U.S. v. Sanford Ltd., 11-cr-00352, U.S.
District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  