-- Santander Mexico Said to Seek as Much as $4 Billion in IPO
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n ,   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-08-15T22:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/santander-unit-said-to-seek-as-much-as-4-billion-in-mexican-ipo.html
Banco Santander SA’s Mexican unit
plans to raise as much as $4 billion in a record initial public
offering for  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy, according
to two people familiar with the matter.  Grupo Financiero Santander  Mexico  SAB, the nation’s fourth-
largest lender by  outstanding loans , will probably sell the
shares after the first week of September, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.
The Mexico City-based bank may sell a 25 percent to 30 percent
stake, one of the people said.  While Spanish banks’ net borrowings from the  European
Central Bank  rose to a record in July as a part of a bailout,
Santander’s Mexican subsidiary reported a second-quarter profit
of 5.3 billion pesos ($404 million) in an economy that is
growing at about twice the pace of the U.S. The IPO will come as
Grupo Financiero  Banorte (GFNORTEO)  SAB, Mexico’s biggest publicly-traded
bank, has rallied 65 percent this year.  “People are looking for consumer plays, more liquid
names,” said Eric Conrads, who helps manage $1 billion in
stocks at ING Groep NV in New York. “If they’re flexible enough
in terms of valuation, it could take some of the flows from
Banorte.”  Bank Underwriters  Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and
Santander are among the banks helping manage the sale, according
to the people.  A Santander Mexico press official, who asked not to be
identified, declined to comment, citing company policy. A
spokeswoman with the Madrid-based parent company, who also asked
not to be named, declined to comment.  Corp. Inmobiliaria Vesta SAB (VESTA*) , a Mexican industrial park
operator, sold shares on July 19 after  Alpek SAB (ALPEKA) , the country’s
largest publicly-traded petrochemical company, sold stock in
April, in Mexico’s only two IPOs this year.  Banco Santander Chairman  Emilio Botin  said June 25 the bank
planned to sell shares in an IPO of its Mexican unit on Oct. 4
to take advantage of growth in the Latin American country.  Paulo Carreno, a spokesman with Citigroup’s Mexico unit
Banamex, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment. Jorge Arce,
chief country officer at Deutsche Bank’s Mexico unit, didn’t
respond to a phone call. An official at JPMorgan’s Mexico unit,
who asked not to be identified, declined to comment.  Consumer Loans  Mexico’s outstanding consumer loans rose 24 percent in real
terms in June compared with the same period a year ago,
according to the latest lending report from the  National
Securities and Banking Commission . Total mortgage credit
increased 9 percent in real terms versus the same month in 2011,
the report showed.  Santander Mexico’s outstanding loans totaled 339 billion
pesos at the end of June, an increase of 17 percent from the
same month a year earlier, the company said on July 26.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Spain ’s biggest bank, said July 26 that
second-quarter profit dropped 93 percent on costs for purging
bad loans. Net income fell to 100 million euros ($122 million)
from 1.39 billion euros a year ago, missing analysts’ estimates.  Banorte climbed 0.2 percent today, after paring gains of as
much as 1.7 percent amid speculation the Santander offering may
redirect investor interest.  Brazil  has completed three offerings and three were
scrapped, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Four Chilean
companies have made their trading debuts in 2012, making the
country the most active IPO market in Latin America.  Colombia 
has had two IPOs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  