-- Saudis, Qataris Urged to Leave Lebanon as Threats Grow
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-08-16T19:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/saudis-qataris-urged-to-leave-lebanon-as-threats-grow.html
Persian Gulf  citizens were urged to
leave Lebanon after kidnapping threats were made against them
following the abduction of a Lebanese man in Syria, raising
concern that the Syrian crisis was spilling across borders.  In  New York , the  United Nations Security Council  agreed not
to renew the mandate for the observer mission in Syria and the
operation will “fade out” beginning Aug. 19, French Ambassador
to the UN Gerard Araud said. The council endorsed a plan by
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to open a small political liaison
office in Damascus to prepare for what follows the Syrian regime
headed by President Bashar al-Assad.  Saudi Arabia’s ambassador in  Beirut  and the United Arab
Emirates Foreign Ministry undersecretary said their countries’
nationals should leave Lebanon immediately, as did Qatar and
Bahrain.  Kuwait ’s Foreign Ministry issued a similar warning “in
anticipation of a spillover from the Syrian crisis,” the state
 news agency  KUNA reported.  The calls came after the Meqdad clan, an extended family
that belongs mostly to Lebanon’s Muslim Shiite community,
kidnapped 20 Syrians in retaliation for the abduction of one of
its members in Syria, the Lebanese Broadcasting Corporation
reported, citing a family spokesman. The clan also seized a
Turkish national in Lebanon and the spokesman, who wasn’t named,
threatened to capture Saudis and Qataris, LBC said.  Hajj Maher Meqdad, the secretary general of the Meqdad
Family League, later pledged not to attack anyone else from the
Persian Gulf, Lebanon’s official National News Agency reported.  ‘Sufficient Number’  Meqdad said the clan had halted all “military operations
as they caught a sufficient number of Free Syrian Army
supporters as well as a Turkish citizen,” the news agency said.  Turkey and Gulf states including  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar
have backed the opposition against Assad’s government, where
fighting has taken on an increasingly sectarian character. Many
rebels are  Sunni Muslims , while the government is dominated by
members of the Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam.  The Organization of Islamic Cooperation early today
suspended Syria from the 57-nation group, with OIC Secretary
General Ekmeleddin Ihsanoglu saying the move signals that the
world needs to intervene in Syria.  Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem said the OIC’s
decision “violates” the organization’s charter because
decisions should be taken unanimously and in this case many
countries opposed it, Syria’s state television said.  The Local Coordination Committees in Syria said in an e-
mail that 158 people were killed across Syria today, including
60 unidentified people in the Damascus suburb of Qatana and 50
in Aleppo.  Humanitarian Needs  United Nations humanitarian aid chief  Valerie Amos  told
journalists in Damascus today that more than a million people
have been uprooted and another million have “urgent
humanitarian needs due to the widening impact of the crisis on
the economy and people’s livelihoods.” The Saudi government
will build 2,500 housing units for Syrian refugees in  Jordan ,
the Saudi Press Agency reported today.  The UN Security Council action reflects the limitation on
movements by observers amid the violence in Syria and the
failure of the mediation efforts of  Kofi Annan , who resigned
Aug. 2 as joint special envoy for the UN and  Arab League .  Russian Ambassador to the UN Vitaly Churkin faulted
countries that he said “did not really show a commitment to
ending hostilities,” a reference to the U.S.,  France  and
Britain, which supported ending the UN mission. Churkin said
 Russia  will convene a meeting of the so-called  Syria  Action
Group tomorrow in New York.  Churkin said the group will continue to press for
implementation of Annan’s six-point peace plan. The group, which
was established by Annan, includes Russia, the U.S., the U.K.,
France, China, Turkey,  Iraq , Kuwait, and Qatar.  New Office  “There was a general feeling that the conditions to
continue Unsmis were not fulfilled,” Araud said after a
Security Council meeting, referring to the UN observer mission’s
acronym.  The new UN office will have 20 to 30 people, and include
political, military, humanitarian and human-rights advisers, as
well as a de-mining unit, said Edmond Mulet, the UN’s assistant
secretary-general for peacekeeping. There were as many as 300
unarmed peacekeepers in the now-discontinued observer mission.  The unarmed UN observers were unable to halt the fighting
that has claimed over 17,000 lives since uprising began in Syria
last year.  Violence ‘Spillover’  In Washington, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
said the U.S. supports a smaller UN presence in Syria that could
help support humanitarian aid. The U.S. is concerned by the
“spillover” of Syrian violence into Lebanon, she told
reporters.  Lebanese President Michel Sleiman said he had information
that 11 other Shiite Lebanese abducted by rebels in May in Syria
were alive, the National News Agency reported. Prime Minister
 Najib Mikati  told reporters that the situation in the country
was “difficult,” adding that there are efforts to resolve the
issue of the hostages, the agency said.  The road leading to Beirut’s international airport was
reopened after overnight riots by the families of Lebanese being
held in Syria, according to the National News Agency. The
protesters had burned tires to block the road. Soldiers were
deployed on the road to secure it, it said. Mikati said today
that the “airport road will not be closed again,” according to
the agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  