-- Shattered Movie Dreams May Mean State Control for Detroit Suburb
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/shattered-movie-dreams-may-mean-state-control-for-detroit-suburb.html
It was lights, cameras, farewell.  California film executive Jimmy Lifton persuaded Allen
Park, Michigan, to become a Midwest moviemaking hub, then left
the Detroit suburb $31 million deeper in debt and, according to
a state report this month, so financially stressed that it needs
an appointed emergency manager.  Three years ago, hundreds attended Lifton’s announcement of
a $146 million studio where an automotive supplier once
operated. Then-Mayor Gary Burtka declared “Hollywood 48101” --
a reference to Allen Park’s zip code -- and Lifton talked of
cranking out movies like  Henry Ford  mass-produced cars, with
3,000 new jobs. The city sold $31 million in general-obligation
bonds to buy and improve 104 acres for Lifton’s Unity Studios.
By mid-2010, the deal had dissolved in a dispute over rent.  “We were buffaloed,” said Tony Lalli, a member of the
City Council that approved the bond sale and then was voted out
of office. “Everyone said they wanted it, and we went along.”  The crisis in Allen Park, which is saddled with $2.6
million in annual bond payments, a $6 million deficit and junk-
level B credit rating from  Standard & Poor’s , shows the risk
governments take when they go into debt to aid private
enterprise.  Rhode Island  is on the hook for $75 million in
state bonds to lure a video game company led by former Boston
Red Sox pitcher  Curt Schilling , which never took off.  Moberly,  Missouri , was stuck last year with $39 million in
bond debt to lure a Hong Kong-based artificial-sweetener plant
project that collapsed, and with it the promise of some 600 jobs
in the town of 14,000.  Paper Lion  “Different municipalities will experiment in different
ways,” said Michael Imber, senior director of public sector
services at Alvarez & Marsal, a  New York  restructuring
consultant. “Some will be successful, some won’t. That’s part
of the risk.”  Allen Park has 28,000 residents and is home of the  Detroit
Lions ’ football training camp, Michigan’s largest bowling alley
and what is said be the world’s biggest sculpture of a car tire,
an  80-foot Uniroyal . Its population is 93 percent white with an
annual median household income of $56,000 that’s higher than the
state average of $48,400, according to the 2010  U.S. census .  In Michigan, emergency managers have been imposed almost
exclusively on cities with chronic financial ills and large
percentages of black and poor residents. That’s prompted calls
of racial prejudice.  River’s Edge  In a string of southern suburbs called “Downriver,” Allen
Park had a reputation as a zone of stability, according to a
March 2011 Standard & Poor’s report. Then, as property values
plunged 25 percent since 2008, its tax base eroded. There are
$24 million in unfunded pension liabilities and $120 million in
retiree costs, according to the Aug. 8 state review, which
called the City Council “manifestly dysfunctional.”  The studio bond sale doubled Allen Park’s long-term debt
and is draining its general fund.  “It was a very risky decision, and they were being
pressured to do it because they thought they were going to miss
an opportunity,” said Mayor William Matakas, 72, who was
elected in November 2011 after Burtka resigned.  City officials plan to disband the police and fire
departments and have another municipality provide protection,
though Matakas said he’d rather obtain concessions. Instead of a
takeover, Allen Park needs lower worker costs and a property-tax
increase, Matakas said Aug. 4. Voters twice rejected a tax
increase to pay off the bonds.  The Pianist  A taxable general-obligation bond that the city sold for
the film-studio development in November 2009 with a 7.33 percent
yield and due in 2039, traded Aug. 10, the most recent sale,
with an average yield of 10.87 percent, 6.82 percentage points
above an index of benchmark taxable municipals due in 30 years,
Bloomberg data show. The bonds were trading with an average
yield as high as 12.89 percent April 10.  Should Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  order a takeover,
its effect would be in doubt. Voters will decide Nov. 6 whether
to keep a 2011 law that gave emergency managers sweeping powers
over cities and school districts, including the ability to
nullify union contracts and sell assets. Snyder said a weaker
1990 law is in effect for four cities and three school districts
under emergency managers -- and possibly Allen Park.  The state review portrays a city in turmoil.  Matakas and others describe Lifton, a Detroit-area native,
as a piano-playing charmer who swept into town when Michigan led
the nation in unemployment -- and offered the most generous tax
credits for filmmakers among states.  Lifton  is president of
Oracle Post in Burbank,  California , an audio and video post-
production company.  Blackboard Jungle  Lifton ran a movie-making school at the Allen Park site
until June 2011. The Lifton Institute for Media Skills offered
21 courses with tuition that ranged from $3,000 for script-
supervisor training to $13,000 to become a stunt coordinator,
according to state records. The school trained 195 students, the
records said.  Harry Sisko, 61, an Allen Park councilman who finished a
four-month course to become a location manager, said the state
paid his $3,000 tuition and that of many others under a
retraining program. Lifton’s plan for a movie studio depended on
income from the school, which folded when state funding stopped,
said Sisko, a former restaurant owner.  “We got hoodwinked,” Sisko said. He said only a few
landed temporary, low-pay movie jobs.  Lifton didn’t respond to a dozen attempts to reach him by
phone and at his Burbank office. Burtka, the former mayor,
didn’t respond to telephone calls for comment  The collapse of city finances infuriated residents.  Firemen’s Ball  “If my house starts on fire, is the mayor going to come
down?” said Brian Laurin, 37, in an interview at the city’s
street fair with his wife and 20-month old twin sons. “If
someone’s breaking into my house is the City Council going to
come?”  The studio plan “was just so fake, I told everybody it’s
just too good to be true,” Laurin said.  The 104 acres the city bought for $25.3 million was
appraised at $19.4 million in December 2010. The deal prompted a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry.  The property includes buildings covering 767,000 square
feet. About half has been leased, though rent payments will fall
$267,300 short of the cost of maintenance this fiscal year,
according to the state report.  Allen Park officials consulted with lawyers and investment
advisers before approving the studio bond sale, said Kevin
O’Shea, of the Miller Law Firm in Rochester,  Michigan . O’Shea
said the city asked him in May to investigate the bond sale
after the SEC inquired.  “This is not a bunch of rubes who were taken to the
cleaners by a fast talker,” O’Shea said. “There’s a lot more
to it.”  O’Shea said the glamor of a movie studio curdled.  “If it had been a pickle factory that didn’t work out, I
don’t think it would have drawn nearly the attention,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Lansing at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  