-- Singh Says Reforms as Important as National Security
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-08-15T06:18:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/singh-says-reforms-as-important-as-national-security.html
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said
 India  must treat measures to boost economic growth as a matter
of national security after his allies opposed steps to attract
overseas investors.  If India fails to encourage investment and improve the
government’s finances, “then it most certainly affects our
national security,” Singh, 79, said in his annual Independence
Day speech today in  New Delhi .  Singh is struggling to salvage his development agenda as
gridlock over attempts to open up the economy, graft scandals
and elevated inflation deter investment, contributing to the
slowest economic growth in almost a decade. Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings have threatened to strip India of its
investment grade score unless the government narrows the widest
 budget deficit  among BRIC nations.  “His comments reflect helplessness as the political-
economic considerations are not allowing him to implement his
ideas,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, an economist at state-owned
 Bank of Baroda (BOB)  in Mumbai. Still “if you are in power you can’t
say you can’t do it, you have to find a way out to take everyone
along, otherwise you have to lose the power.”  The rupee has slumped 19 percent against the dollar in the
past 12 months making it the worst performer among 11 Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It fell 0.6 percent to 55.6600
yesterday in Mumbai.  Political Consensus  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of stocks gained 0.5 percent,
while the yield on the 8.15 percent government bond due in June
2022 rose two basis points to 8.22 percent.  Markets are closed today to mark the end of British
colonial rule that culminated in the division of the country
into India and  Pakistan  in 1947. Pakistan celebrated its
Independence Day yesterday.  “As far as creating an environment within the country for
rapid economic growth is concerned, I believe that we are not
being able to achieve this because of a lack of political
consensus on many issues,” Singh said.  Opposition by his coalition allies such as West Bengal
state’s Chief Minister  Mamata Banerjee  has led to the government
foregoing potential investment from overseas insurers, pension
funds and retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  in the past
year.  The $1.8 trillion economy expanded 6.5 percent in the year
ended March 31, the slowest pace since 2003. Singh said growth
maybe a “little better” than last year, adding that the
weakest monsoon in three years may make it difficult to curb
price increases.  Price Pressures  A report yesterday showed  inflation  eased to a 32-month low
of 6.87 percent in July while remaining the highest in the BRIC
group, which also includes Brazil, Russia and  China . The rupee’s
depreciation and the impact of the deficient rains on crops
threaten to boost prices.  Sustained inflation prompted the  Reserve Bank  of India to
leave  interest rates  unchanged at 8 percent last month. It
lowered the benchmark  repurchase rate  in April by half a
percentage point for the first time since 2009.  Forecasters from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Citigroup Inc.
this month lowered predictions for Indian economic expansion
while raising inflation estimates and scaling back expectations
for interest-rate reductions by the Reserve Bank. Standard &
Poor’s cut India’s credit outlook to negative in April and Fitch
followed the move after two months.  Singh’s Pledge  “I promise to you today that our government will work hard
for India’s rapid economic growth and for shielding the country
from the effects of the global economic slowdown,” Oxford
University-educated Singh said. “To attract foreign capital, we
will have to create confidence at the international level that
there are no barriers to investment in India.”  Singh’s administration has faced corruption charges
including the 2008 sale of mobile-phone airwaves that the
nation’s chief auditor said lacked transparency allowing
ineligible bidders to get licenses at low prices. The
allegations also led to street protests in Delhi.  Indian anti-corruption campaigner  Anna Hazare  and
supporters held a fast that ended Aug. 3 intended to force the
government to speed up passage of laws to counter graft. Police
in the national capital this week stopped and detained yoga guru
Baba Ramdev and hundreds of his supporters from marching toward
parliament to protest corruption.  “We will continue our efforts to bring more transparency
and accountability in the work of public servants and to reduce
corruption,” Singh said. “But we will also take care that
these measures do not result in a situation in which the morale
of public functionaries taking decisions in public interest gets
affected because of baseless allegations and unnecessary
litigation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 