-- Smith & Nephew Bone Healing Device Awaits U.K. Approval
-- B y   M e h r e e n   K h a n
-- 2012-08-15T11:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/smith-nephew-bone-healing-device-awaits-u-k-approval.html
The U.K.’s health-cost regulator is
seeking more information about  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) ’s Exogen bone-
healing device before recommending its use by the National
Health Service for short-term fractures.  The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence
is opening consultation proceedings on Exogen, a device that
treats bone fractures by emitting ultrasound waves, after
evidence of the technology’s ability to repair unhealed shorter-
term breaks proved inconclusive, the London-based regulator said
today. The authority issued draft guidance for the use of Exogen
on fractures that have failed to heal after nine months.  Exogen, which saves 1,164 pounds ($1,830) per patient to
treat nine-month-old fractures without surgery, is less cost
effective when the treatment is used on breaks that haven’t
lasted as long, NICE said. The device’s cost increase versus
traditional treatments on three-month-old fractures amounts to
504 pounds per patient, NICE estimated.  There are “uncertainties about the rate at which healing
progresses and whether surgery would otherwise be needed,”
Carole Longson, director of NICE’s Center for Health Technology
Evaluation, said in the statement. “The cost modeling was
therefore complex, and the case for routine adoption in the NHS
could not be convincingly made.”  Exogen Product  Smith & Nephew, Europe’s largest maker of artificial hips
and knees, gets three-quarters of revenue from advanced surgical
devices in areas such as orthopedics. The London-based
manufacturer acquired the U.S. company that makes the Exogen
device in 1999. The product is now part of a joint venture that
Smith & Nephew set up with Palo Alto, California-based venture-
capital firm Essex Woodlands Health Ventures earlier this year.  “The public consultation will allow patients, patient
support groups and health-care professionals to help define the
appropriate use of Exogen so that these patients can get the
best treatment while significant savings are made for the NHS,”
said John Everett, vice-president of Smith & Nephew’s commercial
operations, in an e-mailed statement.  The Exogen system is designed to save on surgical and
hospital costs by being used by patients at home in 20-minute
treatment sessions, according to NICE. The device stimulates
healing by promoting new bone production. The ultrasound devices
for nine-month and three-month fractures are priced at 2,562.50
pounds and 999.38 pounds respectively.  NICE provides recommendations on cost effectiveness for
treatments used by the state-run NHS as the basis for deciding
whether to pay for a drug or health-care equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mehreen Khan in London at 
 mkhan108@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  