-- Spain Said to Speed EU Bank Bailout on Collateral Limits
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-08-16T17:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/spain-said-to-accelerate-eu-bank-bailout-after-collateral-limits.html
Spain  is about to receive an
emergency disbursement from the 100 billion-euro ($123 billion)
bailout of its financial system because of restrictions the
 European Central Bank  imposed on bank borrowing, according to a
person familiar with the matter.  The ECB last month  applied limits  on how much it will lend
banks against government-guaranteed bonds. The rule change meant
Spain had to ditch a plan for nationalized lender Bankia group
to get a loan from the Frankfurt-based central bank, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the matter is private.  Bankia group , formed in 2010 from the merger of Spain’s
troubled savings banks, will get the first portion of the
country’s European Union cash imminently, the person said. The
rescue program always included a 30 billion-euro tranche to be
paid out first and “mobilized in any contingency,” according
to the agreement document dated July 16.  “Spain needs the money for Bankia as soon as possible
because the uncertainty just makes it expensive for the
government to raise money in the bond markets,” said Arturo Bris, a professor of finance at the IMD business school in
Lausanne,  Switzerland .  Collateral Rules  The ECB didn’t change the loan collateral rules with Bankia
in mind and the lender never formally asked the central bank for
such a loan, said a Bank of Spain official, who asked not to be
named in line with its policy. The recapitalization in advance
of Bankia isn’t justified by the group’s liquidity-related
problems, he said.  Bankia was hoping to get the loan to finance its liquidity
plan announced in June. An earlier proposal, scrapped a month
earlier, would have involved recapitalizing Bankia using Spanish
Treasury debt.  Spain’s bonds have suffered from the burden the country
must itself bear to prop up the banking system. The government’s
 10-year security  rose today, pushing the yield 11 basis points
lower to 6.52 percent as of 5:30 p.m. in  Madrid , compared with
the record-high 7.75 percent reached on July 25. A basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Bankia SA (BKIA) , the listed unit of Bankia group, advanced 19
cents to 1.39 euros, valuing the lender at 2.78 billion euros,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The bank’s 500 million euros of 4.375 percent senior,
unsecured bonds due February 2017 rose 1.9 euros, the most since
March, to a one-month high of 71.84 cents on the euro, according
to Bloomberg generic prices. The notes have been climbing since
reaching a three-year low of 63.73 cents July 26.  As far as the EU bailout is concerned, Cezary Lewanowicz, a
spokesman for the  European Commission  in Brussels, said Spain
hasn’t asked for the initial 30 billion-euro payment to be
mobilized. He declined to comment further.  Officials at the ECB in  Frankfurt , and Bankia and Spain’s
Economy Ministry in Madrid, wouldn’t comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  