-- Standard Chartered Seen Paying $1 Billion to End Probes
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-08-15T16:08:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/standard-chartered-seen-paying-1-billion-to-end-probes.html
Standard Chartered  Plc may have to
pay as much as three times more than the $340 million it was
fined by a  New York  regulator to settle all the probes by
regulators into its transactions for Iranian clients.  The bank may have to disburse a total of $1 billion as
regulators including the  U.S. Treasury ,  Federal Reserve , Justice
Department and Manhattan District Attorney negotiate settlements
with the bank, according to  Simon Morris , a regulatory lawyer at
 CMS Cameron McKenna  in London. Cormac Leech, an analyst at
Liberum Capital, put the total cost at $700 million.  Benjamin Lawsky , head of the New York Department of
Financial Services, accused Standard Chartered on Aug. 6 of
helping Iran launder about $250 billion in violation of federal
laws, threatening to remove the London-based bank’s license to
operate in the state. That would have hurt Standard Chartered’s
ability to process dollar payments for clients in Asia and
reduced earnings by about 40 percent, according to Chirantan
Barua, an analyst at Sanford Bernstein Research in London.  “This is not over,” said  Simon Maughan , a financial
industry strategist at Olivetree Securities in London. “But
their license is now safe. They have admitted to a technical
infringement of the rules. The minute they admitted that, they
had to settle.”  The stock climbed 56.50 pence, or 4.1 percent, to 1,426.50
pence in London trading today for a market value of about 34
billion pounds ($53 billion). The shares are still about 9
percent below their Aug. 3 close, the last day of trading before
the probe was announced.  Funnel Money  The bank still faces federal probes over allegations it
helped Iran funnel money through the U.S.  Regulators including the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve
Bank, the  Justice Department  and the Manhattan District Attorney
declined attempts at a global settlement, a person familiar with
the matter said yesterday. September will be the earliest such a
global deal is possible, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. The regulators said in
statements they are working with their counterparts to complete
to the probe.  “We would expect the other regulators to settle in due
course, and the fines may be material, but we think the
aggregate cost will be below $1 billion,” analysts led by Amit Goel at Credit Suisse Group AG wrote in a note to clients
yesterday.  Latest Scandal  The fine is the latest scandal to hit Britain’s banking
industry this year after Barclays Plc was fined a record 290
million pounds in June for manipulating the London interbank
offered rate, the benchmark  interest rate  for $500 trillion of
securities worldwide. Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond ,
Chairman Marcus Agius and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del
Missier all stepped down following the fine.  Standard Chartered CEO  Peter Sands  will probably keep his
job because the bank largely followed the rules, according to
Leech.  “It’s become apparent the DFS rhetoric was quite emotive
and the fact other regulators in the U.K. and U.S. have
distanced themselves,” said Leech. “All that suggests the
wrongdoing was to do with the letter of the law, but in the
substance and spirit, Standard Chartered was 99.9 percent
compliant.”  Jon Tracey, a spokesman for Standard Chartered, declined to
comment.  Largest Fine  The fine may be the largest paid to an individual regulator
under a money laundering accord. In June, ING Bank NV agreed to
pay $619 million to settle similar allegations. That sum was
split evenly between the federal government and the Manhattan
 District Attorney .  Standard Chartered’s penalty is high when compared with the
$160 million  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s Wachovia Bank unit paid in 2010
to resolve a criminal investigation of how drug cartels used the
bank to launder money through Mexican exchange houses, said
Chris Skinner, director of the Financial Services Club, and CEO
of Balatro Ltd., a banking industry research firm in London.
Wachovia admitted failing to monitor $420 billion in trades
through exchange houses, known as casas de cambio.  “In the context of the two, I’d say they’ve been fined
heavily,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  