-- Standard Chartered Sued by Victims of 1983 Barracks Bomb
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-16T17:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/standard-chartered-sued-by-victims-of-1983-barracks-bomb.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  was sued by
victims of the 1983 Iran-sponsored terrorist bombing of U.S.
Marine barracks in Lebanon over allegations the bank conspired
with  Iran  to hide assets and evade a $2.7 billion default
judgment.  The plaintiffs said that after they obtained the judgment
in 2007, the bank conspired with “Iran and its agents to hide
Iran’s assets from its judgment creditors.”  “Those unlawful actions are part and parcel of Iran’s
longstanding, determined efforts to evade collection of the
judgment and other judgments obtained by the victims of Iran’s
ongoing terror campaign,” the plaintiffs said in the suit,
filed yesterday in U.S. District Court in  New York .  Julie Gibson, a spokeswoman for  Standard Chartered ,
declined to comment on the suit. The bank stopped all new U.S.
dollar business with Iran in November 2006 and ended all new
business with the country in all currencies in July 2007, Gibson
said.  The suit includes claims of tortious interference and seeks
unspecified damages from Standard Chartered. Plaintiffs were
identified as victims and survivors of the bombing, relatives
and heirs of victims, and representatives of injured service
members. The attack killed 241 U.S. Marines, soldiers and
sailors on Oct. 23, 1983, according to the U.S. Department of
Defense.  Standard Chartered assisted Iranian transactions by
agreeing to “strip” information “concerning the originators
and beneficiaries of over 60,000 wire transfer transactions from
the electronic system the banks utilize to conduct wire
transfers,” the plaintiffs alleged.  As a result, the bank “endeavored to conceal from
regulators, criminal authorities and Iran’s judgment creditors
the participation of Iran and its agencies.”  Settled Probe  Standard Chartered said in a statement Aug. 14 that it
settled a New York money laundering probe for $340 million the
day before it was to defend its right to operate in the state.  Benjamin Lawsky , head of the New York Department of
Financial Services, accused Standard Chartered of helping Iran
launder about $250 billion in violation of federal laws,
threatening to remove the London-based bank’s license to operate
in the state.  The New York regulator said in a statement that “the
parties have agreed that the conduct at issue involved
transactions of at least $250 billion.” The $340 million fine
will go to Lawsky’s agency, New York’s Department of Financial
Services, or DFS, and the state.  As part of the settlement, New York said the bank agreed to
install an independent on-site monitor for at least two years
who will report directly to regulators. Examiners from the DFS
will also be placed at the bank.  Similar Allegations  The settlement may be the largest ever paid to an
individual regulator as part of a money laundering accord. In
June,  ING Bank NV (INGA)  agreed to pay $619 million to settle similar
allegations. That sum was split evenly between a $309.5 million
payment to the federal government and an equal sum to the
 Manhattan   District Attorney .  Standard Chartered said in a statement that “a formal
agreement containing the detailed terms of the settlement is
expected to be concluded shortly.” It “continues to engage
constructively with the other relevant U.S. authorities,” the
bank said.  The case is Deborah Peterson v. Standard Chartered Bank,
12-cv-6257 Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  