-- Staples Declines After Cutting Annual Revenue Forecast
-- B y   C e l e s t e   P e r r i   a n d   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2012-08-15T20:17:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/staples-declines-after-cutting-annual-revenue-forecast.html
Staples Inc. (SPLS)  tumbled to the lowest
level since 2003 after the office-supply retailer cut its annual
sales and profit forecast amid slower growth in the U.S. and
tepid demand in  Europe .  The shares fell 15 percent to $11.49, the most since May
2011 and the lowest level since March 2003, at the close in  New
York . The stock had the biggest  decline  in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index.  The Framingham, Massachusetts-based retailer said results
fell short of its expectations in the second quarter ended July
28 because U.S. growth decelerated and demand remained weak in
Europe and  Australia . U.S. consumer prices were little changed
last month, according to the Labor Department, showing
companies’ lack pricing power. Staples said annual revenue will
be unchanged, compared with a May forecast for low-single digit
growth. Analysts had  estimated  a gain of about 1 percent.  “We’re taking a hard look at each of our businesses, and
we plan to make significant changes to improve results,” Chief
Executive Officer Ron Sargent said today in a statement.  Staples has been trying to expand beyond office supplies to
add revenue. Retail sales of copy and print, as well as mobile
phones and accessories, rose in  North America  last quarter, not
enough to counter declines in computer, software and PC
accessories, the retailer said.  Staples, which got 21 percent of revenue from outside of
North America for the year ended Jan. 28, cited the negative
impact of foreign exchange rates for its lowered revenue
forecast. The euro declined 5.1 percent against the dollar in
the second quarter, reducing Staples’ results in the region when
converted in dollars.  Full-year earnings per share will increase in the low
single-digits from $1.37, Staples said, a smaller gain than the
company anticipated three months ago.  Second-quarter net income dropped 32 percent to $120.4
million, or 18 cents a share, from $176.4 million, or 25 cents,
a year earlier. Sales fell 5.5 percent to $5.5 billion. Analysts
anticipated $5.72 billion, the average of estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  