-- Suicide Increase in U.K. Linked to Recession in Study
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-08-15T09:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/suicide-increase-in-u-k-linked-to-recession-in-study.html
The recession that began in 2008 may
have contributed to an increase in suicides in the U.K.,
according to a  study  that echoes findings from research in the
U.S. and  Australia .  Suicides in  England  had declined for 20 years to about
4,000 in 2007 before rising in 2008. About 1,000 more people
killed themselves between 2008 and 2010 than would have been
expected if previous trends had continued, according to
researchers at the University of Liverpool, the University of
Cambridge and the  London School  of Hygiene and  Tropical
Medicine . The British Medical Journal published the study today.  The findings provide further evidence of an association
between job losses and suicides, and show that a drop in
suicides in 2010 was the result of lower unemployment, the
researchers said. Suicide rates in the U.S. tend to rise during
recessions and fall amid economic booms, according to a study
last year from the U.S.  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention .  “Unemployment and the unequal economic recovery in England
are pressing  public health  issues,” the authors said in the BMJ
paper. “There is a danger that the human cost of continued high
levels of unemployment will outweigh the purported benefits of
budget cuts.”  Great Depression  In the U.S.,  suicides  reached a record high of 22 people
per 100,000 in 1932 during the Great Depression, CDC officials
said in their study, published in the  American Journal of Public
Health . That was double the rate seen in 2000, when 10 people
per 100,000 took their lives amid a prospering economy, the
study found.  Men in rural areas may be prone to suicide during times of
drought, according to Australian researchers who analyzed almost
40 years of that country’s rainfall records. In addition to the
financial stress of failed crops, environmental degradation
caused by extended dry spells also can be psychologically
harmful, according to the study published in the Proceedings of
the  National Academy of Sciences .  Today’s finding of a correlation between periods of
economic contraction and higher suicide rates should be treated
with caution, according to Keith Hawton, a professor at the
 Centre for Suicide Research  at the University of Oxford.  “The findings do not tell us why people who become
unemployed at times of recession are at increased risk,” Hawton
said in an e-mailed statement. “More detailed studies would be
needed to elucidate this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  