-- Suntech Replaces CEO Zhengrong Shi With Finance Chief King
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-08-15T20:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/suntech-replaces-ceo-zhengrong-shi-with-david-king.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
world’s largest maker of solar modules, is replacing founder and
Chief Executive Officer Zhengrong Shi with Chief Financial
Officer  David King .  Shi, 49, will remain executive chairman and in charge of
the company’s strategy, Suntech said in a statement today. Anlin
Ting-Mason, finance chief of Suntech America, will assume King’s
role on an interim basis.  “The solar industry is at a critical juncture, and is
facing both significant challenges and exciting opportunities,”
Shi said in the statement. “It’s important to devote more of my
time to guiding the strategic direction of the company.”  Suntech, based in Jiangsu,  China , last month said it may
have been the victim of fraud involving loan guarantees to an
affiliate worth 554.2 million euros ($680 million). Its shares
have dropped 99 percent from its high of $88.35 in December
2007. The American depositary receipts, each representing an
ordinary share, sold for $15 in December 2005 in  New York .  The company’s American depositary receipts fell 4.7 percent
to $1.01 at the close in New York.  “Suntech is done as a U.S. investment,” said  Mark Bachman , an analyst at Boston-based Avian Securities who has a
sell rating on the shares. “Shi is stepping down in the midst
of all these fraud allegations and as the company struggles
under a mound of debt. I wouldn’t be surprised if Suntech is the
first to delist their shares in the U.S.”  King, 55, joined Suntech as finance chief in 2011 after
about serving in similar roles for 11 years at  Tetra Tech Inc. (TTEK) ,
an environmental services and construction company based in
Pasadena, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  