-- Swiss Stocks Advance on Optimism Fed May Boost Stimulus
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-08-15T15:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/swiss-stocks-advance-before-u-s-industrial-output-data.html
Swiss stocks  advanced to the highest
in more than 14 months, as manufacturing in the  New York  region
unexpectedly shrank, fueling speculation the Federal Reserve may
boost stimulus measures.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  contributed the most to the increase in the
SMI.  Nestle SA (NESN) , which accounts for more than a fourth of the
 Swiss Market Index (SMI) , slipped 0.3 percent after Chairman Peter Brabeck-Letmathe told Finanz & Wirtschaft the company has no
plans to spin off its units.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN)  dropped 1.2 percent
after announcing a management shakeup.  The Swiss Market Index rose 0.1 percent to 6,511.87 at the
close in Zurich, the highest since May 31, 2011. The measure has
 gained 14 percent  from its 2012 low on June 4 as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged to preserve the
euro. The Swiss Performance Index was little changed today.  “The Empire State index, which was surprisingly bad, leads
to expectations of further easing,” said Alessandro Fezzi,
senior market analyst at LGT Capital Management AG in
Pfaeffikon, Switzerland. “There’s a good chance the Fed will
again loosen its monetary stance, and this is holding up equity
markets.”  Manufacturing in the New York area unexpectedly contracted
in August for the first time since October, a report showed
today. The Empire State gauge fell to minus 5.9 from 7.4 in
July, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said. The median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
reading of 7.  U.S. Industry  Another report from the  Federal Reserve  showed industrial
production in the U.S. increased 0.6 percent, following a
revised 0.1 percent gain in June that was smaller than
previously reported. Economists forecast a 0.5 percent rise,
according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Novartis, Europe’s largest drugmaker, advanced 1.4 percent
to 58.65 Swiss francs. A gauge of health-care stocks was the
 best-performing group  on the Stoxx Europe 600 Index today.  Nestle slipped 0.3 percent to 60.60 francs. Brabeck-
Letmathe told Finanz & Wirtschaft the company will neither
consider splitting itself up nor list its Nespresso coffee
business on the stock market.  Holcim lost 1.2 percent to 59.30 francs. The cement maker
said today it will introduce a “leaner and more efficient
structure” as of Sept. 1. As part of the changes, three
managers will leave the executive committee and Urs Bleisch will
head a cost-cutting initiative, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  