-- Syncora Sues California to Keep Redevelopment Agencies Alive
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-08-15T01:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/syncora-sues-california-to-keep-redevelopment-agencies-alive-1-.html
Bond insurer Syncora Guarantee Inc.
filed a lawsuit challenging  California  measures dissolving local
redevelopment agencies, saying they jeopardize bond payments and
unconstitutionally impair bondholder and insurers’ rights.  Syncora claims that provisions of the law dissolving the
redevelopment agencies and redistributing their funds has
“significantly reduced” money available to repay bonds. The
company, which provided bond insurance for debt issues by
California redevelopment agencies, seeks a court order declaring
the measures are unconstitutional and blocking the state from
implementing them.  The lawsuit is aimed at provisions that transfer debt
payment obligations from the agencies to municipalities and
allow cities to use  tax revenue  not needed to satisfy debt
obligations instead of retaining it to cover future debt,
according to the complaint filed Aug. 1 in state court in
 Sacramento , California.  Under the law, 400 redevelopment agencies will be abolished
and taxes going to them will be blended in a caretaker fund run
by local governments that would pay investors holding more than
$20 billion in bonds. The law, which was upheld by the
California Supreme Court on Dec. 29, redirected more than $1
billion in redevelopment funds to fill a state budget gap.  Redevelopment agencies provide funding for road, sewer,
lighting and affordable-housing projects across the state. State
officials had argued that redevelopment agencies in
control of billions of dollars of public money had to be
revamped to allow California to divert the money for education,
roads and fire departments.  Representatives of the state Department of Finance weren’t
available for comment on the lawsuit after regular business
hours today.  The case is Syncora Guarantee Inc. v. State of California,
12-80001215, California Superior Court, Sacramento.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  