-- U.K. Unemployment Unexpectedly Falls on Olympics Boost: E
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-15T10:43:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/u-k-unemployment-unexpectedly-falls-amid-olympics-boost-1-.html
U.K.  jobless claims  unexpectedly
fell in July and a wider measure of unemployment dropped to its
lowest in a year as the  Olympic Games  created jobs, showing the
labor market’s resilience in the face of deepening recession.  Jobless-benefit claims  fell 5,900 to 1.59 million, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in London. The median
forecast of 29 economists in a Bloomberg News Survey was for a
gain of 6,000. The  jobless total  measured by International Labor
Organization methods fell to 8 percent in the second quarter
from 8.1 percent in the three months through May.  The willingness of companies to keep hiring workers when
the economy is shrinking has provided a boost for Prime Minister
 David Cameron  and perplexed economists. Some say the improvement
is unsustainable and unemployment may rise in coming months.  “It might be difficult to sustain these strong trends,”
said Nida Ali, an economist at Ernst & Young’s ITEM Club in
London. “Activity in the second half of 2012 is expected to
remain sluggish, implying that the private sector will find it
increasingly difficult to create jobs.”  Britain’s economy shrank 0.7 percent in the three months
through June, the third straight quarter of contraction. The 
 Bank of England  sees the economy contracting about 0.2 percent
this year, according to figures published today.  Separately, minutes of the Bank of England’s Aug. 1-2
meeting showed policy makers voted unanimously to keep their
bond-purchase target unchanged this month. They said they will
assess the need for other measures in light of the impact of
their new credit-boosting program.  Payrolls Increase  The number of people in work  climbed 201,000  to a four-year
high of 29.5 million in the second quarter, the biggest increase
since 2010, the statistics office said. There were gains in both
full-time and part-time employment.  London  accounted for half of
the increase, partly reflecting hiring for the Olympics that
closed Aug. 12.  Unemployment in the period fell by 46,000 to 2.56 million,
the second straight quarter of decline. London made up 42,000 of
the drop. Of the fall in jobless claims last month, the British
capital accounted for 2,800, or almost a half.  The pound rose against the dollar after the report and was
trading at $1.5688 as of 10:55 a.m. in London, up 0.1 percent on
the day. U.K. government bonds stayed lower, with the yield on
the 10-year gilt climbing 3 basis points to 1.63 percent.  ‘Genuine Puzzle’  The statistics office said today that without cuts to lone-
parent benefits, which pushed more women onto the jobless roll,
the claimant count would have fallen by even more in July. The
report showed that the unemployment claims rate was unchanged at
4.9 percent last month. In June, claims rose by 1,000 instead of
the 6,100 initially reported.  Britain’s 8 percent unemployment rate compares with 11.2
percent in the euro region, 8.3 percent in the U.S. and 4.3
percent in  Japan .  Typically, the labor market is slow to respond to economic
downturns as companies hoard skilled workers in case the
weakness proves short lived. Still, economists are at a loss to
explain why the economy continues to create jobs after three
consecutive quarters of shrinking output. Bank of England Deputy
Governor  Charles Bean  last week described the resulting loss of
productivity as a “genuine economic puzzle.”  “More questions will no doubt be asked about why
employment has been so strong,” said  George Buckley , an
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. The data sit
“uncomfortably with three quarters of economic contraction. We
may see weaker jobs data in the second half.”  Australian Confidence  Elsewhere today, Australian  consumer confidence  fell the
most in five months in August, with an index of sentiment by
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute dropping 2.5
percent to 96.6. A government report showed the wage-price
index, which measures hourly pay rates excluding bonuses, rose
3.7 percent in the second quarter from 12 months earlier.  The mixed signals on the economy come as the nation’s
central bank weighs whether to hold  interest rates  at a
developed-world high.  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia , which lowered  interest rates 
by 1.25 percentage points from November to June to 3.5 percent
and paused at the past two meetings, has indicated wages need to
remain contained and productivity improve to ensure inflation
stays within its target of 2 percent to 3 percent.  Malaysia’s Economy  In  Asia ,  Malaysia ’s economic expansion unexpectedly
accelerated in the second quarter as manufacturing and
consumption climbed.  Gross domestic product  rose 5.4 percent
from a year earlier, after expanding a revised 4.9 in the
previous quarter,  Bank Negara Malaysia  said. Economists forecast
a 4.6 percent expansion.  Later today, a U.S., Federal Reserve report is projected to
show output at factories, mines and utilities increased 0.5
percent in July, according to a Bloomberg survey. A separate
report will show the cost of living rose in July for the first
time in four months. The projected 0.2 percent gain in the
consumer-price index follows no change in June.  Today’s U.K. figures also underlined the squeeze on
household incomes as  average earnings  rose just 1.6 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier, while inflation
accelerated to 2.6 percent in July. Excluding bonuses, pay
growth was unchanged at 1.8 percent.  Monthly figures prepared on an experimental basis show ILO-
based unemployment falling to 2.51 million in June from 2.59
million in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  