-- U.S. Asia Pivot May Help China, Australia Opposition Says
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-15T05:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/u-s-asia-pivot-may-help-china-australia-opposition-says.html
China  may benefit from an increased
U.S. military role in the Asia-Pacific region because it will
help secure raw material supplies that drive the world’s second-
biggest economy, Australia’s shadow defense minister said.  “By expanding our defense posture and disposition and
capability, we guarantee maritime security,” David Johnston,
defense spokesman for the opposition Liberal-National coalition,
said in an interview yesterday in Canberra. “We’re sending
massive amounts of energy to China.”  The U.S. is increasing its military presence in the region,
including deploying 2,500 Marines in northern Australia, as
China’s influence expands. A greater American presence in the
region would help to bolster defense of the northwest coast, the
heart of the nation’s resources boom, said Johnston, whose party
leads Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s Labor in polls ahead of an
election next year.  Western Australia  generates more than A$80 billion ($84
billion) in mineral export revenue a year and has mining and
infrastructure projects worth more than A$130 billion under way,
according to the state’s government.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  is partnering
with Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to build the
A$43 billion Gorgon liquefied-natural-gas project off the coast,
in an area called the Northwest Shelf.  Australia, the biggest supplier of China’s iron ore and
coal, needs to ensure that overseas powers or terrorists don’t
threaten resource projects, Johnston said. He didn’t specify
which countries or groups could pose a threat.  Expand Maritime Facilities  “One thing that China needs to understand is that the
three biggest investors in the Northwest Shelf -- Chevron, Exxon
Mobil and Shell -- all have a massive U.S. pedigree,” said
Johnston, a  senator  who represents the state of Western
Australia. “We need to secure our maritime environment so we
can continue to be a really reliable supplier” of resources, he
said.  Johnston said a coalition government would push to expand
maritime facilities in the western town of Exmouth on the  Indian
Ocean , in the vicinity of its resource projects. He said his
party also favored increasing defense outlays after the
government announced in May it would cut spending on the
portfolio by A$5.4 billion over four years in a bid to return
the  federal budget  to surplus.  Chinese ownership of Australian companies and projects
should be encouraged, in part to boost regional security,
Johnston said. Coalition leader  Tony Abbott  told business and
government leaders in Beijing last month that Chinese investment
in Australia “is complicated” by the prevalence of state-owned
enterprises in China.  China’s Behavior  “There’s a bit of insurance in having Chinese investment
in the country,” Johnston said. “If they’ve got some
commitment to us -- skin in the game is the common parlance --
then I think they are more prone to conduct themselves
reasonably.”  A Newspoll survey published Aug. 7 showed support for
Gillard’s Labor government rose to the highest level in six
months, though the ruling party still trailed the opposition by
12 points. Labor’s primary vote increased five points to 33
percent from two weeks ago, while support for the opposition
dropped one point to 45 percent, according to the Newspoll
survey, which was published in the Australian newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  