-- U.S. Appoints Greenwald, Miller to Ally Financial Board
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-08-15T19:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/u-s-appoints-greenwald-miller-to-ally-financial-board.html
Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , the auto lender
74 percent owned by U.S. taxpayers, added Henry S. Miller and
Gerald Greenwald to its board after the Treasury Department
exercised its right to name two directors.  “These two individuals will make a valuable contribution
to the board as Ally moves forward on its continued efforts to
repay taxpayers and support the auto-industry recovery,”
Treasury Assistant Secretary Tim Massad said today in a
statement. Six of the board’s 11 members represent taxpayers,
 Matt Anderson , a department spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Ally Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter is searching
for ways to repay U.S. bailouts exceeding $17 billion and pare
the government’s stake. Carpenter, 65, has bristled at Treasury
oversight and rebuffed a department proposal that someone else
be named to focus on the Detroit-based company’s turnaround
efforts, three people familiar with the talks said in February.  Greenwald, 76, founded private-equity firm Greenbriar
Equity Group and previously was chairman and CEO of United
Airlines parent UAL Corp., and vice chairman at Chrysler Corp.
Miller, 67, co-founded turnaround advisory firm Miller Buckfire
& Co. and is chairman of Marblegate Asset Management LLC. He’s
also on the board of New York-based  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , the bailed-out insurer majority-owned by the U.S.  ‘Key Perspectives’  “They bring extensive experience from both the financial
and auto sectors and will add key perspectives as Ally continues
its transformation,” Ally Chairman Franklin Hobbs said in a
separate statement.  Miller and Greenwald join Kim Fennebresque, Robert Blakely,
Marjorie Magner and John Durrett as Treasury’s representatives
on the board.  Carpenter has refocused his firm on auto lending and online
banking after the May bankruptcy of the Residential Capital
mortgage unit. He’s seeking to divest more than $30 billion of
assets in  Canada , Mexico, Europe and  Latin America  that, once
completed, may allow the company to repay two-thirds of the
bailout, Carpenter said in a May interview.  “Our objective in life is pretty straightforward,”
Carpenter said during an Aug. 1 conference call. “It’s to
continue building the auto business, to continue to build the
bank, and it’s to get the U.S. government completely out of
their shareowner position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 