-- U.S. August Empire State Manufacturing Index (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-08-15T12:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/u-s-august-empire-state-manufacturing-index-text-.html
Following is the text of the
Empire State Manufacturing Index.  The August Empire State Manufacturing Survey indicates that
conditions for  New York  manufacturers deteriorated over the
month. The general business conditions index slipped below zero
for the first time since October 2011, falling thirteen points
to -5.9. At -5.5, the new orders index was below zero for a
second consecutive month, and the shipments index fell six
points to 4.1. The prices paid index climbed nine points to
16.5, pointing to a pickup in the pace of increase in input
prices, while the prices received index hovered just above zero
for a third consecutive month.  The index for number of employees inched lower, but remained
positive at 16.5, suggesting a moderate increase in employment
levels, and the average workweek index rose to 3.5. Indexes for
the six-month outlook were generally positive but lower than in
July, indicating that respondents expected business conditions
to improve little in the months ahead.  In a series of supplementary questions, manufacturers were asked
about modifications to 2012 hiring and capital spending--both
year-to-date changes and revisions planned for the rest of the
year. Substantially more firms (roughly twice as many) made
downward than upward revisions in their plans for the second
half of the year. As for actual spending year-to-date, modest
downward adjustments were made, on balance. When asked about
negative influences on 2012 hiring and  capital spending  plans, a
majority of respondents cited increased uncertainty about
business prospects.  Business Conditions Deteriorate In August, the general business
conditions index fell thirteen points to -5.9, slipping below
zero for the first time since October of 2011--a sign that
activity declined for New York manufacturers over the month.
Twenty-two percent of respondents reported that conditions had
improved, while 28 percent reported that conditions had
worsened. The new orders index fell three points to -5.5, its
second consecutive reading below zero, pointing to a small
decline in orders. The shipments index fell six points to 4.1,
and the unfilled orders index inched higher but remained
negative at -10.6. The delivery time index fell six points to -
7.1, indicating that delivery times were shorter, and the
inventories index declined eight points to -8.3, suggesting a
modest decline in inventory levels.  Input Prices Accelerate, Employment Continues to Pick Up After
recording a cumulative forty-three point decline during the
March-July period, the prices paid index rose nine points in
August, to 16.5, suggesting a pickup in the growth rate of input
prices. The prices received index was little changed at 2.4,
pointing to a slight increase in selling prices. The index for
number of employees remained positive, though it was down
slightly, and at 16.5, pointed to a moderate increase in
employment levels over the month. The average workweek index
inched up to 3.5, indicating a slightly longer workweek for the
average worker.  Optimism Continues to Wane Indexes for the six-month outlook
were generally lower than last month and indicated a continued
decline in optimism about future conditions. The future general
business activity index fell for a seventh consecutive month,
dropping five points to 15.2. The future new orders index fell
eleven points to 2.4, and the future shipments index declined
seven points to 8.3. The future prices paid index fell to 31.8,
its lowest level in more than a year, and the future prices
received index inched down to 14.1. The index for expected
number of employees fell to 3.5, suggesting that employment
levels were expected to be only slightly higher in the months
ahead, and the future average workweek index was -8.2. The
capital expenditures index fell seven points to 12.9, and the
technology spending index fell thirteen points to 5.9.  Increasing Uncertainty Dampening Hiring and
Capital Spending Plans  In a series of supplementary questions to the August 2012 Empire
State Manufacturing Survey, manufacturers were asked if they had
modified their actual year-to-date hiring and capital spending
since the beginning of 2012 and if they were planning revisions
for the second half of this year. Respondents were also asked
about the extent to which various factors contributed positively
or negatively to revisions in hiring and capital spending plans
for the second half of 2012.  With regard to actual hiring and capital spending year-to-date,
slightly more firms reported making downward than upward
modifications, relative to what they had been planning at the
beginning of the year. Moreover, considerably more firms
(roughly twice as many) reported making downward than upward
revisions to their hiring and capital spending plans for the
second half of 2012.  By far the most widely cited factor behind the downward
revisions--for both hiring plans and capital spending plans--was
increasing uncertainty about business prospects. Indeed, more
than half of all respondents saw uncertainty as a negative
influence. More than 30 percent of respondents cited sales
running below plan as a factor dampening both hiring and capital
spending. A sizable number of manufacturers (28 percent) also
reported that increased difficulty in finding qualified job
applicants adversely affected hiring. Only a handful of
manufacturers cited reduced access to credit as a negative
influence on capital spending plans.  As for positive influences on hiring and capital spending, the
most widely cited factor was higher than-expected sales; 37
percent of respondents noted this as a factor supporting
increased hiring, while a little more than 30 percent identified
it as a factor supporting higher capital spending. Only about 10
percent of respondents cited decreasing uncertainty about
business prospects as a positive influence on hiring and capital
spending plans. ■ 