-- Most U.S. Stocks Rise as Investors Weigh Economic Data
-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-08-15T21:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-netlist-tumbles.html
Most U.S. stocks rose, after a two-
day decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as investors
weighed manufacturing data for clues on whether the  Federal
Reserve  will move to stimulate the economy.  Abercrombie & Fitch (ANF)  Co. and  JDS Uniphase Corp. (JDSU)  rallied at
least 8.2 percent after earnings topped analysts’ estimates.
 Deere (DE)  & Co. dropped 6.3 percent as profit trailed analysts’
estimates and the largest maker of  farm equipment  cut its full-
year forecast.  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  tumbled 15 percent after reducing
its projections amid slower growth.  More than two stocks advanced for each declining on U.S.
exchanges at 4 p.m. New York time. The  S&P 500  rose 0.1 percent
to 1,405.53, after falling as much as 0.2 percent. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  slipped 7.36 points, or 0.1 percent, to
13,164.78. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 4.8
billion shares, 26 percent below the three-month average.  “You’re getting back and forth data that sometimes confirm
the potential for QE3, like today, and yesterday brings it into
question,” said Andrew Slimmon, Chicago-based managing director
of global investment solutions at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney,
referring to another round of Fed stimulus known as quantitative
easing. His firm has $1.7 trillion in client assets. “There is
going to be no other expected major news between now and when
the Fed meets on Aug. 31. There will be a lot of conjecture back
and forth about what they are going to do.”  Industrial production in the U.S. increased in July, Fed
data showed today, propelled by a pickup in motor vehicle output
and a rebound in utility use during the hottest month on record.
A separate report showed manufacturing in the  New York  area
unexpectedly contracted in August for the first time since
October.  Price Swings  The S&P 500 slipped less than 0.1 percent yesterday as a
slump in technology and financial shares reversed an earlier
rally amid better-than-estimated retail sales. Intraday price
swings in the benchmark index have narrowed to a daily average
of 0.6 percent during the past eight days, the smallest
fluctuation over a comparable period since January 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The index has fluctuated around 1,400 for the past seven
trading sessions, with U.S. equity volume reaching the lowest
level since at least 2008 excluding holidays and volatility
sliding to a five-year low.  ‘Resisting Worries’  “With the volume so light, it doesn’t take much to get a
movement in either direction,”  Scott Armiger , a  money manager 
at Christiana Trust in Greenville,  Delaware , which has $11
billion in client assets, said in a phone interview. “The
market just seems to be resisting all the worries here.”  Trading has slowed as vacationing traders awaited policy
clues from the Fed’s summit at the end of the month and the
European Central Bank meeting in September. The index has
rebounded 10 percent from a five-month low on June 1 amid
speculation global central banks will introduce further stimulus
measures. The Fed will hold off from a third round of bond
buying in September amid better economic figures, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said in a report today.  About 4.5 billion shares changed hands on all venues on
Aug. 13, the lowest level in data compiled by Bloomberg going
back four years that excludes the days surrounding New Year’s,
Christmas, Thanksgiving and Independence Day. Volume averaged
5.8 billion shares a day this month, 13 percent below the
average level during the first seven months of 2012.  Volatility Bets  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Volatility Index (VIX) , known
as the VIX, lost 7.1 percent to 13.70 on Aug. 13, the lowest
level since June 2007. The VIX fell 1.5 percent to 14.63 today.  Investors are piling into securities that gain should
equity volatility increase, a bearish bet on stocks that was
last popular when the S&P 500 climbed above  1,400 (SPX)  in March.
Outstanding shares jumped to a record for the three most-used
exchange-traded securities that profit from volatility gains in
U.S. stocks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer discretionary, financial and commodities companies
in the S&P 500 rose more than 0.3 percent as a group today while
energy and utilities stocks performed worst, losing at least 0.3
percent.  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  rose 1.1 percent to $17.35 during
regular trading. After the market close, the biggest maker of
computer-networking equipment posted profit and sales that beat
analysts’ estimates and raised its quarterly dividend by 75
percent. The stock jumped 4.3 percent to $18.10 in extended
trading at 5:21 p.m.  Abercrombie & Fitch rallied 9 percent to $35.23. The teen-
clothing retailer authorized additional share buybacks and
reported second-quarter profit that topped the company’s
preliminary report earlier this month.  JDS Uniphase  JDS Uniphase surged 8.2 percent to $11.56. The maker of
fiber-optic testing equipment posted fourth-quarter profit
excluding some items of 15 cents a share, beating the average
analyst estimate of 12 cents in a Bloomberg survey. The company
forecast first-quarter sales between $415 million and $435
million, compared with the average analyst estimate for $426.2
million at the time of the company’s release.  Target Corp. (TGT)  added 1.8 percent to $64.50, the highest level
since October 2007. The second-largest U.S. discount retailer
raised its annual profit forecast as it increases sales by
adding groceries and enticing more spending from customers with
a discount card.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which raised $16 billion in the largest-ever
technology initial public offering, rose 4 percent to $21.20. A
lockup on shares held by investors begins to expire tomorrow.
The owner of the world’s most popular social network plunged 46
percent from its May debut through yesterday amid concern over
the company’s ability to make money from mobile users.  Deere, Staples  Deere lost 6.3 percent to $75.10. The world’s largest
manufacturer of agricultural equipment cut its full-year profit
forecast as sales slow in  Asia  and  Latin America , undermining
the company’s growth strategy. Profit for the full year will be
$3.1 billion, Deere said, compared with its May forecast of
$3.35 billion and the $3.33 billion average of 15 analyst
estimates.  Staples tumbled 15 percent to $11.49, the lowest close
since 2003. The office-supply retailer said results fell short
of its expectations in the second quarter because U.S. growth
decelerated and demand remained weak in Europe and Australia.
Staples said annual revenue will be unchanged, compared with a
May forecast for low-single digit growth. Analysts had estimated
a gain of about 1 percent.  The S&P 500 may reach 1,500 this year as the economy picks
up momentum in the fourth quarter, according to  Byron Wien , vice
chairman of Blackstone Group LP’s advisory services unit.  “Housing is bottoming, gasoline is down from the beginning
of the year, 90 percent of the people in the country have
jobs,” Wien said in an interview this morning on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” show. “The European situation is
getting better, not resolved, but getting better. The fiscal
cliff will be deferred,” he said, referring to higher taxes and
spending cuts that will take effect at year-end unless Congress
acts. “There will be more good news than bad.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  