-- Ukraine Widens West Rift in Tymoshenko Case Delay, Daughter Says
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   G o m e z ,   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-08-15T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/ukraine-widens-west-rift-in-tymoshenko-case-delay-daughter-says.html
Ukraine is widening a rift with the
West by stopping jailed opposition leader Yulia Tymoshenko from
taking her case to the  European Court  for Human Rights, her
daughter said.  A court in the capital, Kiev, will probably delay a hearing
today to overturn Tymoshenko’s seven-year sentence for abuse of
office, Eugenia Tymoshenko said yesterday. The appeal, which
defense lawyers say will be rejected, must be heard before the
case can be sent to the human-rights court in Strasbourg,
 France , according to attorney Serhiy Vlasenko.  Tymoshenko, an ex-prime minister and co-leader of the 2004
Orange Revolution, accuses President  Viktor Yanukovych  and his
administration, which backed her arrest and incarceration, of
corruption and violating democratic principles. Eugenia
Tymoshenko said her mother is a victim of political persecution
that’s destroying her health and eroding U.S. and European trust
in the former Soviet republic.  “This whole attack on the freedom of speech, the abuse of
law” is worsening Ukraine’s image and isolating it “not only
from  Europe , but from the democratic world,” Eugenia Tymoshenko
said in an interview in her mother’s party headquarters. “The
main problem is that Yanukovych and his people, and main
officials, they do not care about the political situation and
the place of Ukraine in the world.”  The benchmark Ukrainian Equity Index has  lost  26 percent
this year, while the cost of insuring government debt against
non-payment for five years using credit-default swaps has
declined to 831 basis points from 839. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Gas Deal  Yulia Tymoshenko  was convicted of harming Ukraine by
signing a natural-gas supply and transit accord with  Russia  in
January 2009, ending a price dispute that disrupted deliveries
to at least 20 nations for two weeks amid freezing temperatures.  Yanukovych says the contract has caused $12 billion of
losses in the last two years. Yulia Tymoshenko alleges the case
against her is aimed at preventing her from participating in
parliamentary elections set for Oct. 28.  Yanukovych’s Party of Regions has a narrow lead with 21.5
percent support, according to a May 31-June 6 poll of 2,000
eligible voters by the Kiev-based Democratic Initiative.
Tymoshenko’s party has 20.4 percent backing, the survey showed.
It had a margin of error of 2.3 percent.  European Support  Eugenia Tymoshenko, 32, a graduate of the  London School  of
Economics, has been pressing her mother’s case around Europe,
meeting political figures such as ex-European Parliament
President Pat Cox, who saw the former premier in her hospital
ward on Aug. 14, former Polish President Aleksander Kwasniewski
and Czech Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg.  She also appealed on May 7 to Hans-Gert Poettering, the
head of the Conrad Adenauer foundation and another former head
of the European Parliament, to speak out about  human-rights 
violations in Ukraine.  Since her arrest, Yulia Tymoshenko’s health has
deteriorated, her daughter said, with chronic back problems and
the effects of stress after an alleged attack in April by three
penitentiary officials. She has been refused medical treatment
by doctors she trusts for seven months, her daughter said.  Less than a month after she started an April 20 hunger
strike, Yulia Tymoshenko was transferred to a hospital ward,
where she is now kept under round-the-clock guard and video
surveillance, her daughter said.  ‘Political Repression’  Because of her declining health, she is unable to attend
hearings, prompting the court to issue delays, even though she
doesn’t need to be present for a ruling, her attorney said.
Eugenia Tymoshenko said the delays are politically motivated by
court officials under the control of the administration.  “Unfortunately this political repression continues,” she
said. “Her health is still very bad, which is exaggerated by
constant 24-hour psychological pressure on her in prison.”  Yanukovych said his political opponent’s prosecution was
carried out in a transparent and legal manner.  “Crimes carried out in various criminal cases were carried
out with Tymoshenko’s participation,” he said June 12. “This
isn’t a secret for the whole world -- this happened.”  Eugenia Tymoshenko said Yanukovych and political associates
are the guilty ones in her mother’s case.  “They care about self-enrichment and surround themselves
with people that serve them and do not serve the rule of law,”
she said.  Orange Enemies  Yulia Tymoshenko and Yanukovych have been political enemies
since she stood with  Viktor Yushchenko  during the Orange
Revolution. The uprising drew millions of Ukrainians into the
streets to demonstrate and led to the overturning of a
presidential vote that first gave Yanukovych the victory and was
later rerun to give Yushchenko the position as head of state.  Yulia Tymoshenko, as prime minister under Yushchenko,
annulled the 2004 sale of steelmaker VAT Kryvorizhstal to Viktor Pinchuk, the son-in-law of former President Leonid Kuchma, who
handpicked Yanukovych to replace him in 2004.  The plant was auctioned a year later and was bought by
Mittal Steel Co. for $4.8 billion.  She ran against Yanukovych for president in 2010 to replace
Yushchenko and lost by less than 3 percentage points. She
appealed the vote results, giving up the fight two weeks later.  She was arrested on Aug. 5, 2011, and has been in detention
ever since, with a conviction in October 2011.  The case has international implications for Ukraine,
including the indefinite delay of an Association Agreement with
the European Union that would improve trade links and economic
integration. She also is hoping for her mother’s release “very
soon, and even “before elections” in October.  Eugenia Tymoshenko said she won’t follow in her mother’s
footsteps by starting a political career. Instead, she will
concentrate on her mother’s case, keeping contact with
organizations including the European Parliament,  Transparency
International  and  Amnesty International .  “I am not planning to become a politician, that’s for
sure, because my mission is to say the truth about political
repression,” she said. “I hope I can continue what I am
doing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James M. Gomez in Prague at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  