-- Muni Defaults May Be 36 Times More Frequent Than Reported
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-08-15T19:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/muni-bond-defaults-said-to-be-36-times-more-than-moody-s-reports.html
Municipal bond defaults occur with a
frequency at least 36-fold greater than reported by credit
raters, Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  researchers say.  When including unrated debt not covered by the firms, 2,521
issuers in the $3.7 trillion market for state and local bonds
defaulted from 1970 to 2011, authors Jason Appleson, Eric Parsons and Andrew Haughwout wrote today in a  blog posting . That
compares with 71 reported by Moody’s Investors Service for
issues it rated over the period.  “Although the low default history of municipal bonds has
played a key role in luring investors to the market, frequently
cited default rates published by the rating agencies do not tell
the whole story,” the researchers wrote.  The New York Fed posting, “The  Untold Story  of Municipal
Bond Defaults,” analyzes data on rated bonds from  Standard &
Poor’s , Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, along with
unrated debt tracked by Mergent Inc. and S&P Capital IQ.  Moody’s collects data only on the issuers it grades, and
presents its default statistics in that context, said Robert Kurtter, a managing director at the New York-based company.  “We’re not really in the business of trying to evaluate
the unrated marketplace,” Kurtter said by telephone. The New
York Fed’s report “isn’t inconsistent with our view or what
we’ve been communicating to the marketplace.”  Defaults on general-obligation debt backed by the taxing
power of a state or city, such as that by bankrupt Jefferson
County,  Alabama , remain rare, according to the report. The
default rate on state and local general-obligation bonds is 0.01
percent, according to Matt Fabian, managing director at Concord,
Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors.  Missing Payments  Industrial-development bonds represented 26 percent of
failures to pay, the most of any single type of issue, the New
York Fed researchers wrote. Housing securities composed 17
percent of the defaults tracked since 1958 and nursing homes
made up 12 percent. The study included monetary defaults, in
which issuers missed cash payments to bondholders.  Summing up all non-rated muni debt “is like adding the
performance of penny stocks sold by boiler rooms to the  S&P 500 
and saying that stock returns had a lesser experience,”  John Donaldson , director of fixed income at Haverford Trust Co., said
in a statement.  Standard & Poor’s calculated 47 municipal defaults among
its rated bonds from 1986 to 2011, according to the report. That
number increases 50-fold to 2,366 when including ungraded debt.  Banking analyst  Meredith Whitney ’s prediction in December
2010 that “hundreds of billions of dollars” of defaults would
occur in the next year sparked the biggest outflow from muni
funds since at least 1992. The forecast failed to halt a
municipal-bond rally that pushed tax-exempt interest rates near
the lowest in 45 years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  