-- Turkish LPG Seller Ipragaz to Start Retail Unit, Seeks Targets
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-08-15T12:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/turkish-lpg-seller-ipragaz-to-start-retail-unit-seeks-targets.html
Ipragaz AS ,  Turkey ’s first
liquefied petroleum-gas distributor, plans to start a fuel
retail unit and is seeking acquisition targets to support
domestic expansion.  Ipragaz is working with consultants on a brand name for the
unit and operations will start next year, Chief Executive
Officer Selim Siper said in Istanbul where the company is based.
It will be the first LPG company in Turkey to sell gasoline and
diesel, he said in an interview.  “We need to invest about $50 million to have an initially
reasonable network size in the retail fuel business,” Siper
said yesterday.  More than 40 companies including  OMV AG (OMV) ,  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and OAO Lukoil already operate in Turkey’s fuel
retail industry. Ipragaz, which had sales of about $1.2 billion
last year and is owned by closely held Dutch energy company SHV
Holdings NV, is also looking to snap up rivals or assets.  “There are more than 70 LPG retail distributors in the
country and some of them may be selling assets,” the CEO said.
Acquiring a company or assets could take more than a year to
complete, Siper said.  He declined to say whether BP’s planned sale of its global
LPG bottles and tank filling business, including operations in
Turkey, was of interest.  Ipragaz was the fifth-biggest seller of LPG in Turkey last
year with a 7.8 percent market share, according to the energy
market regulator’s  website .  LNG Business  Ipragaz also plans to apply for licenses from the Ankara-
based energy regulator for wholesale electricity sales and
renewable energy production, he said.  SHV is set to start a liquefied natural gas, or LNG,
business in the U.K.,  Germany , France, Italy and Belgium,
Netherlands and Luxembourg.  That follows Ipragaz’s “successful” LNG sales of 100,000
tons a year in Turkey, said Siper, who is also in charge of
SHV’s operations in China, India, Pakistan,  Hungary  and the
 Philippines .  “SHV is setting up a company in Brussels for that
purpose,” Siper said. “SHV will adopt Ipragaz’s LNG sales
model for the new business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  