-- Uruguay Sets Deposit Requirement on Foreigners Buying Notes
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-15T18:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/uruguay-sets-deposit-requirement-on-foreigners-buying-notes-2-.html
Uruguay said foreign buyers of
central bank notes must deposit 40 pesos ($1.90) with the bank
for every 100 pesos of securities that they acquire.  The decision to implement  capital controls  was taken to
avoid pressure on the currency because of “unusually high”
participation at debt auctions by short-term foreign investors,
the bank said in a statement on its  website  today.  The move aims to “absorb in the best way external
volatility shocks, to avoid inflation going out of control and
problems in financial markets, and ensure the competitiveness of
Uruguayan companies,” central bank President Mario Bergara said
in the statement.  Investors will be able to purchase public debt with either
local or foreign currency, regardless of the currency in which
the securities are denominated, the bank said.  The peso gained 1 percent to 21 per dollar at 2:30 p.m. in
Montevideo, the most in the world after the Gambian dalasi.  Uruguay’s credit rating was raised to investment grade by
 Standard & Poor’s  in April and by Moody’s Investors Service last
month after the South American country reduced debt and
diversified exports. Moody’s lifted Uruguay one step to Baa3,
the lowest investment grade, from Ba1 and maintained its
positive outlook. The ratings company had cut Uruguay to B3 from
Baa3 in 2002.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Uruguayan
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 126 at 12:24 p.m. in
Montevideo, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index. The
index has fallen 87 basis points this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  