-- UVA Board Meets With Leader Facing Reinstated President
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-08-15T15:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/uva-board-meets-with-leader-facing-reinstated-president.html
Helen Dragas, the embattled head of
the University of Virginia’s Board of Visitors, confronts what
may be the most daunting period of her tenure as the group meets
for the first time since reinstating President  Teresa Sullivan .  Six new members, along with two senior advisers, were
appointed to the board of Charlottesville, Virginia-based UVA on
June 29. Dragas was also reappointed, just days after Sullivan
was restored to her position on June 26. The board meets today
in Richmond.  Dragas -- who led the failed effort to unseat Sullivan --
and the other appointees must still gain confirmation from the
Virginia General Assembly, which meets in January. As calls
mount among the faculty, students and alumni for Dragas to
resign from her post as head, or rector, she must work with
Sullivan to set a course for the university through a variety of
educational, financial and administrative challenges.  “They really have to put the events of recent months
behind them and remain focused on the issues of affordability
and quality that should be at the center of any discussion
between presidents and boards,” said  Anne Neal , president of
the American Council of Trustees and Alumni, a Washington-based
advocacy group, in a telephone interview. “Their focus has got
to be on the future.”  The university released documents last week related to the
ouster attempt that include hundreds of e-mails from alumni
demanding that Dragas resign.  ‘Knows Best’  The board’s head must show that she respects university
faculty and students enough to share information with them, said
Suzie McCarthy, a graduate student in politics who organized
protests against Sullivan’s dismissal.  Dragas has “taken a kind of ‘mother knows best’
attitude,” McCarthy said in a telephone interview. “If her
perspective is my way or the highway, she doesn’t belong at
UVA.”  David Toscano, a state representative from Charlottesville
who had called for Dragas’s voluntary resignation, said he
hasn’t decided whether he’ll support her reappointment by
Governor  Bob McDonnell .  “I’m hearing from a lot from my constituents that they
don’t want me to vote to reappoint Ms. Dragas,” Toscano said.
“I’m hearing from a lot of other delegates that to vote for
reappointment is not appropriate.”  Carmen Bingham, a spokeswoman for Toscano, said she knew of
no cases when the General Assembly failed to confirm an
appointee to the board.  No Crisis  The plan to force Sullivan’s resignation on June 10 sparked
protests from faculty and students calling for greater
accountability and transparency among board members, especially
Dragas. McDonnell charged the two new senior advisers -- Leonard Sandridge, former chief operating officer of UVA, and William
Goodwin, a former university board member -- with the task of
“solving strategic and communications challenges.”  More revelations about the failed ouster may come from an
outside investigation by the university’s accreditor, the
 Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on
Colleges , said  George Cohen , a UVA law professor and chairman of
the faculty senate. While board members have said they would
like to move beyond the incident, the trustees may have a duty
to explain why they set in motion a process that plunged the
school into turmoil and tarnished its reputation, he said.  “There was no emergency, no financial crisis,” he said in
a telephone interview. “It’s a good idea to figure out what
happened to make sure it doesn’t happen again.”  UVA’s Hurdles  In explaining her efforts to dismiss Sullivan, Dragas laid
out a series of “hurdles” standing before the college, founded
in 1819 by  Thomas Jefferson , that require quick, decisive
action. State funding per student has fallen to $8,300 from
$15,300 in 2000, and the possibility for an increase is
“bleak,” Dragas said in a June 21 letter to the university
community. The same financial pressures are making it harder for
UVA to recruit top teaching and research talent, she said then.  The school has also fallen behind  Harvard University , the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and  Stanford University  in
the use of online education and other technological advances in
teaching, Dragas said in the letter. The university lacks a
“strategic plan” to deal with these and other issues, she
said.  COO Departure  In a July 25 letter, University Provost John Simon also
asked Sullivan to begin a strategic planning process to address
the university’s goals for the next 10 years. While UVA entered
a partnership with Stanford on July 17 to teach courses online,
the letter echoed Dragas’s concerns about faculty, educational
techniques and finances.  Four days after Sullivan’s June ouster, Simon and Michael Strine, then the university’s chief operating officer, praised
the board’s action to remove her as “resolute and
authoritative.” Sullivan said she would return to her post only
if Strine and Dragas both resigned, the Washington Post reported
July 17. In an interview published in the Post today, Sullivan
denied that she had demanded Dragas’s resignation. She didn’t
discuss Strine, who stepped down Aug. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  