-- TV’s ‘Gallery Girls’ Fuels Critics in Cast, Blogosphere
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-08-15T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/tv-s-gallery-girls-fuels-critics-in-cast-blogosphere.html
On the three television screens in
his apartment Monday night, art dealer Eli Klein sported a gray
suit and gelled hair as he gave orders to two girls who landed
internships at his SoHo gallery.  It was the premiere of “Gallery Girls,” a Bravo reality
show that follows the adventures of seven 20-somethings at the
low end of the pecking order in  New York City ’s art world.
Klein, 34, is one of the main characters.  Off-screen he seemed more boyish and low-key as he mingled
with clients, friends and family members lounging on beds and
sofas in his SoHo flat. He wore his shirt untucked and regularly
checked his iPhone for Twitter mentions of his name.  “Kinda shocked that Eli Klein agreed to appear on
#gallerygirls. He must enjoy being a villain,” wrote Benjamin
Sutton, an editor at Artinfo.com, in a Twitter post.  In the show Klein was brusque with interns at his SoHo
 gallery , which specializes in contemporary Chinese art. These
are unpaid jobs requiring low-level work and often given to the
presentable offspring of wealthy families.  In the show, Klein quickly sends one applicant packing:
“You don’t speak Chinese and you haven’t graduated from
college.”  At the party, the dealer’s father, Richard Klein, said,
“He is a sweetheart.”  Drinking Game  Another “Gallery Girls” party was hosted in an apartment
across the  East River  in  Brooklyn  by art bloggers Marina
Galperina and Paddy Johnson. Galperina had published a drinking
game on her  AnimalNewYork  site before the show started at 10
p.m.  Players had to take a drink every time any one of eight
things happened in the show, including: “someone mentions their
parents” or “someone refuses to do basic work” or “someone’s
cleaning in heels or any other similarly ludicrous combination
of inappropriate attire and physical labor.”  Could they get seriously drunk by the episode’s end?  “We are taking sips, not drinks, because it’s a Monday
night and we have to go to work tomorrow,” Galperina said. “I
have to curb my cynicism.”  As their guests drank chilled rose and crunched baby
carrots, the two women shared their reactions on Twitter.  “I dunno. I liked ‪#gallerygirls‬,” wrote Johnson,
editorial director of a blog called  Art Fag City . “Based on the
twitosphere reaction though, I think I might be alone in this.”  ‘Mean Girls’  A Twitter post from Art Fag City blogger Corinna Kirsch
called the show “a drunk ‘Mean Girls.’” “OMG I’m already
bored,” wrote Hrag Vartanian, editor of an art website
 Hyperallergic.   At Klein’s apartment in  Manhattan , Amy Poliakoff, another
“Gallery Girls” cast member, squeezed her Tory Burch clutch as
she watched a scene. A childhood friend of hers who is one of
Klein’s interns ridiculed Poliakoff for babbling and drinking
too much.  “She was very mean to me,” said Poliakoff, 25, wearing
Valentino heels and a little black dress by  Catherine
Malandrino . “My image is exaggerated a little bit, but it makes
things more entertaining.”  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining,  Jeremy
Gerard  on theater.  To contact the reporters of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 