-- Verizon Commits to Utilize Airwaves Acquired in Cable Deal
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-08-15T22:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/verizon-commits-to-make-use-of-airwaves-acquired-in-cable-deal.html
Verizon Wireless  told U.S.
regulators it would commit to making use of airwaves it has
proposed buying from cable companies, led by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)   Verizon, in a filing today, told the Federal Communications
Commission it will send signals using the airwaves to 30 percent
of the people living in areas where it plans to acquire new
frequencies during the first three years, and to 70 percent of
the population within seven years.  Verizon, the largest U.S. mobile provider, is seeking
clearance from airwaves regulators at the FCC and antitrust
officials at the  Department of Justice  for a $3.6 billion deal
to buy airwaves from Comcast, the top U.S. cable company, and
No. 2 Time Warner Inc.  Verizon in today’s filing also said it would strike
agreements to let other wireless companies use its airwaves in
areas where it is acquiring frequencies from the cable
companies.  Verizon, based in  Basking Ridge ,  New Jersey , wants to add
airwaves as customers increasingly adopt smartphones such as
Apple Inc.’s iPhone to watch video and browse the Web. Comcast
and Time Warner are selling airwaves they’re not using.  Critics have said the deal would replace competition with
cooperation, bringing higher prices and less choice for
consumers.  ‘Meaningless Pledge’  The FCC “should reject this meaningless pledge and require
that Verizon return or share any unused spectrum after three
years,” Derek Turner, research director for the policy group
Free Press, which opposes the transaction, said in an e-mail.
Verizon has overstated its need for airwaves, Turner said.  Verizon and Comcast have agreed in principle with U.S.
antitrust officials to limit joint ventures as a condition for
buying the airwaves, people with knowledge of the negotiations
said.  U.S. officials are seeking to preserve competition in a
telecommunications market characterized by locally exclusive
cable companies and a wireless sector dominated by four players,
with 60.7 percent of the market held by Verizon and  AT&T Inc. (T)   The FCC had set an Aug. 21 target date for finishing its
review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 