-- VimpelCom Second-Quarter Profit Almost Doubles, Beats Estimate
-- B y   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2012-08-15T07:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/vimpelcom-second-quarter-profit-almost-doubles-beats-estimate.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  boosted profit more
than analysts estimated in the second quarter as the Russian
mobile operator expanded in Asia and Africa after combining with
Italy’s Wind Telecom SpA.  Net income climbed 83 percent to $488 million from a pro-
forma $267 million in the same period last year, VimpelCom said
today in a statement. That beat an average estimate of $316
million from five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Emerging market operations helped offset weak sales and
profits in Europe and  North America , according to the company.
VimpelCom’s biggest market remains Russia, where the government
is pushing billionaire shareholder  Mikhail Fridman  for an out-
of-court settlement with  Telenor ASA (TEL)  about the size of the
Norwegian company’s stake.  “The company is heading in the right direction,”
Konstantin Belov, an analyst at UralSib Financial said by phone
from Moscow, before the results. “There are signs that the
conflict between shareholders may be solved and it will be able
to benefit from growth in Russia and other  emerging markets .”  Telenor owns 35.7 percent of VimpelCom and Altimo, the
telecommunications division of Fridman’s Alfa Group, owns 31.4
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Billionaire
Naguib Sawiris’s Weather Investment’s has 18.8 percent. Russia’s
Anti-Monopoly Service is disputing Oslo-based Telenor’s right to
increase its stake in VimpelCom with the purchase of shares from
Sawiris’s companies.  Sales declined 4 percent to $5.75 billion, while earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization climbed 8
percent to $2.48 billion, the company said.  The “results were negatively impacted by U.S. dollar
appreciation against operating currencies,” VimpelCom said.  VimpelCom increased its subscriber base by 8 percent to 208
million, adding customers in its Africa and Asia business unit
and boosting fixed and mobile broadband services in Russia and
Italy, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anatoly Temkin in  St. Petersburg  at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  