-- Wal-Mart Joins Target in Forming Mobile-Payments Network
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-08-15T20:34:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/wal-mart-joins-target-in-forming-mobile-payments-network-1-.html
Retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT) ,  Target Corp. (TGT)  and  Best Buy Co. (BBY)  formed a company that would
allow customers to pay with their mobile phones as they work to
gain control over the growing method of processing purchases.  The company, named Merchant Customer Exchange, or MCX, is
developing a mobile application, the retailers said today in a
statement. The app is intended to work with all smartphones and
as many forms of payment as possible, including  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  debit- and  credit-card  accounts, said Terry Scully, president of Target’s financial and retail services.  The retailers see an opportunity to grab part of the
emerging mobile-payments industry, which may expand to $170
billion in 2016 from $60 billion this year, according to Juniper
Research. The venture also will try to improve the in-store
experience and cut costs, including swipe fees the chains pay
when consumers use a credit card, Scully said.  “This technology should help in addressing what is a well-
known issue,” Scully said.  The venture comes amid a proposed $6.6 billion settlement
between merchants and Visa and MasterCard of a lawsuit
concerning credit card swipe fees. The settlement faces
opposition from retail trade groups and individual retailers,
including Wal-Mart and Target.  Credit-card swipe fees, which average about 2 percent of
each transaction, generate about $40 billion a year for banks
such as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)   Financial Institutions  MCX is in talks with several large financial institutions
to become partners, Scully said. There are also many more
retailers than the 14 named in the statement that are at
different stages of involvement, Michael Cook, assistant
treasurer at Wal-Mart, said in an interview.  Including large banks may be a key to the venture, said
Richard Crone, chief executive officer of Crone Consulting LLC,
which advises retailers and banks on mobile-payment solutions.  Partnering with banks could lead to transactions being
processed directly by a financial institution instead of passing
through the payment networks run by Visa and MasterCard and
others, he said.  “This is a big deal,” said Crone, who’s based in San
Carlos,  California . This could be “revolutionary” for
merchants and banks, he said.  Courting Banks  Banks are being courted so consumers can have access to an
account they have with a bank such as Citigroup or JPMorgan,
said Cook, who declined to comment on whether transactions would
be made directly with financial institutions. Banks now get paid
fees on transactions made over payment networks such as Visa.
They, along with other participants in MCX, will be fairly
compensated, Cook said.  “Our objective is to make the system as efficient as we
can by taking out costs that add little or no value to the
system,” Cook said.  Customer data also is an important part of the push to
create MCX, Crone said. Mobile-payment products from  Google Inc. (GOOG) 
and ISIS, which is backed by carriers  Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T
Inc. (T) , track customer behavior and then send targeted ads.  “They are trying to inject themselves in between the
retailer and consumer and that’s what MCX is fighting to
protect,” Crone said. The merchants “risk being marginalized
and relegated to showrooms.”  Gas Stations, Restaurants  The platform will be available to all kinds of merchants,
including stores, casual restaurants and gas stations, the
retailers said. It will also have the versatility to be added to
a retailer’s existing mobile-payment technology, they said.  While the retailers have announced the formation of a
company, they still have a long way to go in developing a
product, said  Michael Taiano , an analyst with Telsey Advisory
Group in  New York  who covers the payment networks. MCX will need
a lot of retailers to join the effort to make it appealing
because consumers want a payment option that can be used almost
anywhere, he said.  “It’s easier said than done,” Taiano said in a telephone
interview. “The devil is always in the details.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  