-- Whitman Says He Spoke to Khan After She Tried to Tip Him
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-08-15T23:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/whitman-says-he-spoke-to-khan-after-she-tried-to-tip-him.html
Whitman Capital LLC’s Doug Whitman
told jurors that he continued to seek information from  Roomy Khan , a key prosecution witness against him, even after he
concluded she had tried to pass him illegal inside information.  Whitman, 54, testified yesterday in his criminal  insider
trading  trial in  Manhattan  federal court that he grew suspicious
in a phone conversation with Khan in April 2006 that she was
getting specific revenue figures from an executive at  Polycom
Inc. (PLCM)  Whitman, who said he didn’t trade based on what Khan told
him on the call, said today that he continued to ask her to seek
information from the executive, Sunil Bhalla.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher LaVigne questioned
Whitman about conversations he had with Khan in 2008, in which
he tried to persuade her to contact Bhalla for additional tips
on earnings at Polycom, a maker of video-conferencing equipment.
Khan, who testified earlier in the trial, said Whitman often
“hounded” her to get information from Bhalla.  Whitman is charged with trading on illegal inside
information about Polycom,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Marvell Technology
Group Ltd. (MRVL)  He claims his trades were based on legitimate
research on the companies, not illicit tips. If convicted, he
faces as long as five years in prison on each conspiracy charge
and 20 years on each securities fraud charge.  Whitman, the first defendant to elect to testify at a trial
in the U.S. government’s nationwide crackdown on insider trading
at  hedge funds , was on the stand for a third day. LaVigne began
cross-examining him this morning.  Khan Plea  Khan pleaded guilty in 2009 and is cooperating with the
government’s insider trading investigation.  Steven Mark Bauer, who represented Bhalla in a civil case
brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, didn’t
return a call yesterday seeking comment on Whitman’s testimony.  Bhalla in September agreed to pay $85,000 and was barred
from serving as an officer or a director of a public company for
five years to settle the SEC lawsuit.  In his testimony yesterday, Whitman said he suspected
several times that Khan had inside information, including about
pending takeover bids for Hilton Hotels Inc. and  Kronos Inc. (KRO) 
Whitman testified that he didn’t make any trades based on the
information.  Whitman’s ‘Moles’  LaVigne questioned Whitman about his use of the word
“moles” in discussing sources of information used by Khan and
Karl Motey, another cooperating witness who testified he gave
tips to the hedge-fund manager. Khan testified that Whitman used
“moles” to refer to sources of inside information.  Answering questions from his own lawyer this afternoon,
Whitman said a “mole” is “someone who’s knowledgeable on the
subject or knowledgeable on the company.”  LaVigne also asked Whitman about a secretly recorded
September 2008 phone call in which he urged Khan to contact
Bhalla for Polycom information.  “You know it’s easy for me, for them to connect my calls
to him,” Khan said. Whitman suggested she use an Internet-based
Skype phone number to avoid being caught.  Toward the end of the conversation, in which Khan said she
was reluctant to call Bhalla, Whitman asked her: “What value do
you have if you’re not a slimeball?”  Whitman frequently characterized the information he got
from Bhalla and other company insiders as “color,” or non-
confidential, information. He contrasted color information with
specific financial figures, which he said he understood to be
inside information.  ‘Not OK’  “To know the number, if you get it, you know, the exact
number, is not OK,” Whitman testified.  Khan testified that in 2007 she passed detailed Google
earnings figures to Whitman from Shammara Hussain, an employee
at an investor relations consulting firm that was working with
Google at the time.  Hussain agreed in June 2011 to settle SEC claims against
her for $48,000. She hasn’t been charged criminally. Robert
Knuts, who represented Hussain in the SEC case, didn’t return a
voice-mail yesterday seeking comment on the testimony.  Whitman testified that he didn’t use information from Khan
in his decision to buy Google put options in July 2007. He said
he didn’t believe Khan when she said she got information from a
friend working for an outside investor relations firm.  A week or two after selling the options, at a profit of
$590,000, Whitman testified, Khan told him that her source on
the Google tip wanted to be paid for the information. It was
only then that Whitman believed Khan had gotten inside
information, he said.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who is presiding over
Whitman’s trial, has said he expects the jury will begin
deliberations by the end of this week.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  