-- Paul Ryan’s Democratic Fan Club
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-08-15T22:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/will-ryan-pick-tip-house-back-to-democrats-.html
If  Barack Obama ’s campaign officials
were happy over the weekend about  Mitt Romney ’s selection of
 Paul Ryan  as his running mate, they’re ecstatic now.  The Obama camp is guarding against overconfidence and still
betting the U.S. presidential race will be close. But aides
traveling with Obama pointed with glee to  headlines from
Florida , Iowa and elsewhere that lash the Republican ticket to
Ryan’s plan for deep cuts in Medicare, the nation’s most popular
social program after  Social Security .  Some Democrats now dare to wonder if Romney’s pick for vice
president could even undermine Republican control of the  House
of Representatives . Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  has said for
months that the Democrats can take the House; no one believed
her. Although it’s still a steep challenge, Ryan’s addition to
the ticket makes the climb easier.  Almost every Republican in the House voted for the Ryan
plan -- twice. Last week, when Ryan was just the House Budget
Committee chairman, it was difficult to make much of an issue of
that. Voters didn’t know anything about Ryan or his plan. This
week, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee is
encouraging its candidates to wrap Ryan around their opponents’
necks.  The post-election era is also looking rosier to Democrats.
At a minimum, an Obama victory in November would discredit the
Ryan plan and strengthen the president’s hand in negotiations
over the fate of the Bush tax cuts, which are due to expire at
the end of this year.  Campaign Focus  Some Republicans lament that Ryan’s emergence makes it
easier for the Obama campaign to keep the campaign focus away
from jobs by shifting it to entitlements. Republican strategist
 Mike Murphy  posted on  Twitter  that someone should do a Nexis
search to see whether “economy” or “Medicare” appeared more
often in the news media in the 72 hours after the Ryan
announcement. His point was clear: Any day the country is
talking about Medicare instead of unemployment is a good day for
Democrats.  In Boone, Iowa, this week, I caught up with chief Obama
strategist  David Axelrod , who says he expected Romney to make
the safest choice for vice president, former Minnesota Governor
 Tim Pawlenty . (The Obama team didn’t think Romney would pick
Senator  Rob Portman  of Ohio, another leading contender, because
of Portman’s tenure as President  George W. Bush ’s budget
director. Bush is so unpopular in the party that he won’t even
attend the  Republican National Convention  in Tampa,  Florida , at
the end of this month.)  Axelrod argues that Romney’s choice of Ryan was another
example of Romney undermining his long-term prospects in order
to maintain short-term viability, as he did in the primaries
against Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and former Pennsylvania
Senator  Rick Santorum . “In beating Perry, he hurt himself on
immigration with Latinos,” Axelrod says. “In beating Santorum,
he hurt himself with women. Now, going into the convention, he
needs the base.”  Republicans spent tens of millions in recent months
attacking the president with ads built around his own words:
“The private sector is doing fine” and “You didn’t build that.”
The polls didn’t move. Axelrod compares the effort to change
voters’ views of Obama to the old Richard Pryor routine in which
a wife catches her husband with another woman. Disputing
reality, the husband protests: “Who are you going to believe --
me or your lying eyes?”  Personal Attacks  By contrast, Obama’s shots at Romney have been so effective
that Romney, in an interview with Chuck Todd of NBC News, called
for an end to personal attacks. Axelrod found that hilarious
given the barrage of super-PAC ads aimed at tearing down Obama.  Obama’s campaign, aided by supportive super-PACs, is also
spending plenty on harshly negative ads. It’s axiomatic in
politics that negative ads tarnish the attacker along with the
target, albeit to a lesser degree. So far, Obama seems to be
defying the axiom, despite Romney’s new charge that Obama is
“disgracing the presidency.”  Democratic voters have been waiting three years for the
president to throw some punches; they’re probably overjoyed to
see his negative ads. Independents, meanwhile, have a pretty
firm impression of Obama as a decent guy; that won’t be shaken
by a few low blows from Obama’s side of the partisan divide.  As a result, Obama can fearlessly pound Romney and Ryan for
promoting a plan to transform Medicare into a voucher system
while slashing other programs for the middle class and poor.  Romney is fighting back, accusing Obama of cutting $716
billion from Medicare as part of his health-care overhaul. (That
same message helped Republicans take the House in the 2010
midterm election.) But Obama’s  Medicare savings  are mostly in
reduced hospital reimbursement rates and in cuts to providers in
Medicare Advantage, a supplemental program for wealthier
seniors. Contrary to a new Romney ad, Obamacare doesn’t touch a
dime of basic benefits. Most of the other cuts slow the rate of
increase in spending, helping to secure the program for another
decade. As it happens, Ryan’s budget contains the same cuts,
which makes the whole Republican line of attack a little dicey.  It’s possible that Romney can fuzz up the Medicare issues
and pivot back to Obama’s failure on the economy. The 82 days
until the election are an eternity in politics. But the
selection of Ryan looks like it will make that effort harder,
and life in  Chicago  just a little bit easier.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  messy Medicare debate  and
on rejuvenating  India’s economic miracle ;  Caroline Baum  on why
conservatives  don’t mind meddling  in private affairs;  Ezra Klein 
on how Ryan could be  Democrats’ worst nightmare ; Jonathan Mahler
on the U.S. popularity of  European soccer ; Adam Kirsch on the
 politics of personal destruction  in “Advise and Consent”;
Russell G. Ryan on giving the Securities and Exchange Commission
 too much power .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net  