-- Wilmar Falls After Posting 70% Profit Drop: Singapore Mover
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-08-15T09:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/wilmar-falls-after-posting-70-profit-drop-singapore-mover.html
Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the
world’s biggest palm-oil processor, fell to the lowest in more
than three years in  Singapore  trading after it said second-
quarter profit plunged 70 percent.  The stock declined 7.1 percent to S$3.15, the lowest close
since April 1, 2009. Wilmar, down 37 percent this year, is the
 worst-performer  on the benchmark Straits Times Index.  The Singapore-based company said yesterday  net income  was
$117.1 million in the three months ended June 30, from $393.1
million a year earlier, because of losses at its oilseeds and
grains business and on lower earnings from its plantations. That
missed the $316.5 million average of three analyst estimates in
a Bloomberg survey.  “Results were very much below expectations,” James Koh,
an analyst at Maybank Kim Eng Holdings, wrote in a report today.
“Soybean crushing over-capacity in  China  will continue to hurt
margins and the market has been too optimistic to expect a
turnaround.”  The company posted a pretax loss of $40 million at its
oilseeds and grains division due to negative crushing margins
and depreciation of the  yuan  against the  U.S. dollar , Wilmar
said. Profit also declined because of lower prices and yields at
its plantations, it said.  Crushing Margins  “Crush margin in China was the worst I’ve seen in the ten
years we’ve been in the business,” Chief Executive Officer Kuok Khoon Hong said today at a briefing in Singapore. Wilmar managed
the timing of its soybean purchases better in the second quarter
compared with the previous quarter, Kuok said.  Soybean futures have rallied 34 percent this year, reaching
a record $16.915 a bushel on July 23 as the U.S. endured its
worst drought in half a century.  Shares of  PPB Group Bhd (PEP) , Wilmar’s biggest shareholder, fell
4.6 percent, the largest decline since May 2010 in Kuala Lumpur
trading. PPB holds a 18.3 percent stake in Wilmar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wilmar’s  stock recommendation  was downgraded to “sell”
from “hold” at both Religare Capital Markets Ltd. and UOB-Kay
Hian Holdings Ltd. after the earnings results.  Improving Returns  Returns should improve in the second half, especially for
its sugar business, Chief Financial Officer Ho Kiam Kong said at
the briefing. Its sugar division posted a pretax loss of $60.3
million in the quarter, Wilmar said yesterday.  Wilmar also recorded a pretax loss of $34.6 million,
compared with a profit of $34.9 million a year earlier, at its
non-core businesses on lower fertilizer and shipping profits and
higher losses from investments in securities, it said yesterday.  Wilmar may be open to selling its stake in Australian
breadmaker  Goodman Fielder Ltd. (GFF)  “at a good price,” Kuok said
today. The palm oil producer, which said in February it paid
A$115 million ($120.5 million) for a 10 percent stake in Goodman
Fielder, had planned to make a bid but its offer price was lower
than what target’s board wanted, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  