-- Wisconsin’s Thompson Wins Republican Senate Primary
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-08-15T11:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/wisconsin-s-thompson-wins-republican-senate-primary.html
Tommy Thompson , the longest-serving
governor in Wisconsin history, won the Republican U.S. Senate
nomination and will face Democratic congresswoman Tammy Baldwin
in November.  Thompson, 70, garnered 34 percent of the vote to 31 percent
for banker and investor Eric Hovde, with 100 percent of
precincts counted early today, according to unofficial results
reported by the Associated Press. Thompson won the right to
compete for the seat being vacated by retiring four-term
Democrat  Herb Kohl , 77.  Also defeated by Thompson were former U.S. Representative
Mark Neumann, and Assembly Speaker Jeff Fitzgerald. Baldwin, 50,
ran unopposed in the Democratic primary.  “He’ll definitely be the strongest candidate against
Baldwin,” said Joe Heim, who teaches politics at the University
of Wisconsin-La Crosse. “He bucked the Tea Party trend.”  Thompson, appointed by President  George W. Bush  as his
Health and Human Services secretary in 2001, was first elected
Wisconsin’s governor in 1987. He started the national debate
over welfare reform after he persuaded state lawmakers to pass a
bill requiring able-bodied recipients to find work. In 2008, he
ran unsuccessfully for the Republican presidential nomination.  Incumbents Battle  Elsewhere, Florida U.S. Representative  Connie Mack , 45, won
the Republican Senate nomination and will face two-term
Democratic incumbent Bill Nelson, 69, in November. In Sunshine
State House races, 10-term Representative  John Mica  defeated Tea
Party-backed Sandy Adams, 55, in her first term, after their
districts were combined. Mica, 69, is chairman of the chamber’s
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.  In Connecticut,  Linda McMahon , 63, the former World
Wrestling Federation chief executive officer who ran
unsuccessfully in 2010 for the U.S. Senate, won the chance for a
second try, defeating former U.S. Representative Chris Shays,
66, for the Republican nomination.  She will face Democratic U.S. Representative Chris Murphy,
39, in the race to succeed retiring four-term incumbent  Joseph Lieberman , 70, an independent.  Political attention paid to Wisconsin has increased since
Republican Mitt Romney selected U.S. Representative  Paul Ryan  of
Janesville to be his running mate in the presidential campaign.
Tea Party influence in the state helped elect Republican
Governor Scott Walker and U.S. Senator Ron Johnson, who defeated
three-term Democratic incumbent Russ Feingold in 2010.  Failed Recall  Walker provoked a recall election against him when he used
legislative majorities to curb collective bargaining power for
most public employees. He survived the June 5 ouster vote.  Thompson, whose political career in the state started in
1966, drew opposition from Tea Party supporters who said it was
time for new blood in the  Republican Party .  “Tommy has a reputation of getting things done,” Heim
said. “In this election, he was the establishment candidate who
won, beating the more conservative crowd.”  Baldwin, a Madison native, lawyer and former state
legislator, was first elected to Congress in 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  