-- Worker Wage-and-Hour Suits Rise in Difficult Labor Market
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-08-15T04:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/worker-wage-and-hour-suits-rise-in-difficult-labor-market.html
Lawsuits by U.S. workers contesting
 wages and hours , including demands for overtime pay, reached a
20-year high this year as unemployment remained above 8 percent.  There were 7,064 federal wage-and-hour cases filed during
the 12 months ending March 31, a number that has grown almost
every year since 2000, when the total was 1,854, according to
the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts, which plans to
release the data publicly later this year.  The recession and the  unemployment  rate contributed to the
rise, said  Richard Alfred , chairman of the national wage and
hour litigation practice at Seyfarth Shaw LLP, who represents
companies in lawsuits brought by groups of workers. His firm
 reported  the 2012 data in July.  “When employees are laid off, that may be an opportunity
for them to seek legal counsel either to see if there’s any
basis for contesting their termination or to make sure that what
they’re receiving in severance or other benefits is proper,”
Alfred said in a telephone interview.  Jason Rozger , a partner at Beranbaum Menken LLP in  New
York , which represents employees, said high unemployment gives
companies leverage to compel work off the clock because people
are worried about losing their jobs. That changes once they get
fired, he said.  “As unemployment goes up, people get laid off and they’re
no longer worried about retaliation,” Rozger said in a phone
interview.  Fired Workers  Attorneys for terminated employees seeking advice may be
prompted to look into wage-and-hour lawsuits, Alfred said.  “I don’t suggest these cases are brought in such a
cavalier way, but they’re complicated,” he said.  Different courts have reached different conclusions on the
same questions, such as which employees are entitled to overtime
pay, he said.  Ambiguities in the  Fair Labor Standards Act , which
establishes standards for overtime pay, also contribute to the
volume of cases, the lawyers said. The law, enacted in 1938 and
amended in 2004, defines which workers are entitled to extra pay
for working more than 40 hours a week.  It exempts executive, professional and outside sales
workers, among others, laying down rules for each category.
Someone exempted as an  administrator , for example, must do
office or “non-manual” work related to “the management or
general business operations” of the company.  The worker’s primary duty must include “the exercise of
discretion and independent judgment with respect to matters of
significance.”  Programmer Exemption  Computer programmers, defined as those who analyze and
design computer systems, are exempt from the overtime
requirement. Some employers try to classify workers performing
rote computer tasks under the exception, Rozger said.  “The fact that you’re using a computer doesn’t mean you’re
not entitled to overtime,” he said.  Alfred said the labor law is outdated.  “It is complicated, confusing, difficult for employers to
apply laws that were written and adopted in a very different
industrial setting to today’s far more technological
workplace,” Alfred said. “Proper application of the exemption
depends on many unclear concepts -- concepts that can be
interpreted differently by very well-intentioned people.”  Lawsuits arise over which workers exercise “discretion and
independent judgment.” In one such case, information technology
workers at Amdocs Inc., a software company, sued for overtime
pay in federal court in  San Francisco  in September 2010.  Trouble-Shooters  The employees claimed they “primarily performed non-exempt
duties including providing computer support, trouble shooting,
testing related to repairs and problem-solving and/or other
technical services,” according to a December 2011 court order
certifying the case as a class action, or group lawsuit.  “Plaintiffs have submitted evidence showing that they used
procedures and manuals to perform their jobs, and that they did
not have the discretion to deviate from prescribed guidelines,”
U.S. District Judge Susan Illston wrote.  She said the question of whether the employees’ primary
duty “includes the exercise of discretion and independent
judgment” should go to trial. The case is pending.  Amdocs argued in a court filing that the workers “fall
squarely within this exemption from minimum wage and overtime.”
While arguing that the plaintiffs fell within the computer-
programmer exception, Amdocs said they would be exempt under
other provisions of the law anyway.  Class Size  Amdocs told the court the class as certified might include
more than 700 people.  Similar issues arose in cases filed last year against  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  by home-mortgage consultants. The consultants were
paid commissions and didn’t get overtime. They sued Wells Fargo
and the Wachovia Mortgage Corp. unit it acquired in 2008,
alleging the companies misclassified them and owed them overtime
pay. A judge in Houston certified two classes on Aug. 10.  Wells Fargo said in a court filing that it changed its
classification system because of “legislative and regulatory
changes affecting the industry” and “to remain competitive
with other mortgage lenders.”  The San Francisco-based bank estimated the proposed class
would include 21,000 people.  Alfred said cases have also turned on disputes over
tracking hours for employees who can work from home or who spend
five minutes on a work-related phone call while technically off
the clock.  Independent Contractors  The use of independent contractors has prompted legal
actions ranging from mass litigation on behalf of FedEx Ground
drivers, now before a federal appeals court in  Chicago , to
individual disputes.  A U.S. Labor Department-commissioned  study in 2000  found
that 10 percent to 30 percent of companies in nine states
misclassified workers.  Sometimes growth leads to violations because a company is
unprepared to handle employee classification, said  Jahan Sagafi ,
a partner with Lieff Cabraser Heimann & Bernstein LLP, in San
Francisco, which represents plaintiffs.  Growing companies should be careful to get “adequate HR
protections” in place to comply with the law, Sagafi said.  Greater awareness of the law is fueling the litigation, the
three lawyers said.  As Congress debated Fair Labor Standards Act amendments in
2003, filings under the law almost doubled, to 4,055 from 2,035
in 2002, according to the  Federal Judicial Center , the research
arm of the federal courts.  Sagafi said he has worked on cases involving information
technology workers and the computer-professional exemption. He
said he has also seen cases in the drug and retail industries.  Alfred cited retailing as a frequent source of wage-and-
hour litigation, along with hospitals and hospitality.  “The fact that they continue to be brought in record
numbers is something that corporate America is paying attention
to,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York
at   egrannis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 