-- World Bank Says Ghana Needs $26 Billion for Infrastructure
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-08-15T09:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/world-bank-says-ghana-needs-26-billion-for-infrastructure.html
Ghana needs to spend $26 billion on
infrastructure such as roads and electricity to support economic
growth led by the start of oil production for export in 2010,
according to the  World Bank .  The investments to “upgrade basic infrastructure” should
have started that year, Dante Mossi, senior operations officer
with the World Bank’s office in the West African nation, said in
an interview in Accra, the capital, yesterday.  “Ghana needs to keep up with the growth of the economy and
the growing needs of the people,” he said.  The West African nation’s economy, with a gross domestic
product of 74 billion cedis ($38 billion) forecast for this year
by the  International Monetary Fund , grew 14.4 percent in 2011,
the fastest pace in sub-Saharan Africa. This year, expansion of
9.4 percent is projected, according to the  Finance Ministry . The
IMF forecasts growth of 8.8 percent.  The country needs to invest in energy, roads, water,
sanitation, education, housing and employment creation, Mossi
said.  Ghana, which is Africa’s second-biggest gold producer after
 South Africa  and the world’s second-largest cocoa grower after
neighboring Ivory Coast, started output at the offshore Jubilee
oil field, operated by U.K.-based  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , in December
2010.  The rapid pace of economic growth led to a 16 percent
decline against the dollar this year as companies seek dollars
to boost their investments. The cedi has since slowed its
declined, losing 0.8 percent in July and less than 0.1 percent
this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency gained 0.4 percent to 1.945 a dollar by 9:51 a.m. in
Accra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  