-- Treasuries Decline on Fed Speculation as Most Stocks Rise
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-08-15T20:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/yen-falls-asia-stocks-fluctuate-on-u-s-data-oil-drops.html
Treasuries fell, sending 10-year
yields to an almost three-month high, while most U.S. stocks
advanced as investors weighed economic data to gauge the
potential for more stimulus from the  Federal Reserve .  The 10-year rate rose seven basis points to 1.81 percent at
4 p.m. in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.1
percent to 1,405.53, while the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index slipped
less than 0.1 percent after falling as much as 0.6 percent.
Standard Chartered Plc climbed after settling a money-laundering
probe. The euro weakened against 14 of its 16 major peers.
Soybeans and gasoline rallied more than 2 percent, leading the
S&P GSCI Index of commodities up 1 percent.  The Fed next month will hold off from a third round of bond
buying, known as quantitative easing, amid better economic
figures, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said in a report. U.S.
industrial production increased in July, Federal Reserve data
showed today, while a government report yesterday showed retail
sales grew more than forecast. Other reports today indicated the
cost of living in the U.S. was little changed in July while
manufacturing in the  New York  area unexpectedly contracted.  “You’re getting back-and-forth data that sometimes confirm
the potential for QE3 like today and yesterday brings it into
question,” Andrew Slimmon, Chicago-based managing director of
global investment solutions at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, said
in a phone interview. His firm has $1.7 trillion in client
assets. “There is going to be no other expected major news
between now and when the Fed meets on Aug. 31.  There will be a
lot of conjecture back and forth about what they are going to
do.”  The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index for the U.S., which
measures how much data is beating or trailing the median
forecasts in Bloomberg surveys, climbed to an almost four-month
high of minus 12.1 yesterday after sliding to this year’s low of
minus 65.3 on July 19. The index was at minus 19.1 today.  International Demand  Yields on 30-year bonds increased eight basis points to
2.92 percent, the highest level since May.  International demand  for U.S. financial assets fell in June
from the previous month’s inflows, as investors saw Europe’s
leaders moving toward a resolution of their financial crisis.
Net buying of long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled $9.3
billion during the month, a drop from net purchases of $55.9
billion in May, the Treasury Department said. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News projected net buying of $40 billion
of long-term assets, according to the median estimate.  German bunds and U.K. gilts declined. Germany’s 10-year
 yield  climbed 10 basis points to 1.56 percent, surpassing 1.5
percent for the first time since July 4. The rate of similar-
maturity British notes jumped eight basis points to 1.68
percent, the highest in more than a month.  Default Risk  The cost of insuring European corporate debt rose from a
five-month low, with the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of
credit-default swaps on 50 mostly junk-rated companies
increasing eight basis points to 583.  The euro dropped 0.3 percent to $1.2288 and lost 0.1
percent versus the yen.  Among U.S. stocks, Deere & Co. retreated 6.3 percent after
trading after the largest maker of  farm equipment  cut its full-
year earnings forecast after fiscal third-quarter profit that
trailed behind estimates. Abercrombie & Fitch Co. rallied 9
percent and Target Corp. gained 1.8 percent after profit topped
analysts’ estimates. Staples Inc. tumbled 15 percent after
reducing its forecast amid slower growth.  Swings Narrow  The  S&P 500  has fluctuated near the 1,400 level for the
past seven trading sessions. Intraday swings narrowed to a daily
average of 0.7 percent from Aug. 6 through yesterday, the
smallest fluctuation over a comparable period since January
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The index has
rebounded about 10 percent from a five-month low on June 1.  U.S.  equity volume  this week reached the lowest level since
at least 2008 excluding holidays and volatility slid to a five-
year low as vacationing traders awaited policy clues from the
Fed’s summit at the end of the month.  About 4.5 billion shares changed hands on all venues on
Aug. 13, the fewest in data compiled by Bloomberg going back
four years that excludes the days surrounding New Year’s,
Christmas, Thanksgiving and Independence Day. Volume was about
4.8 billion shares today, still 28 percent below the average
level of the year.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known
as the  VIX (VIX) , sank to 13.70 on Aug. 13, the lowest level since
June 2007. The VIX rebounded 8.4 percent yesterday and slipped
1.5 percent to 14.63 today.  Volatility Bets  Investors are piling into securities that gain should
equity volatility increase, a bearish bet on stocks that was
last popular when the S&P 500 climbed above 1,400 in March.  Outstanding shares jumped to a record for the three most-
used exchange-traded securities that profit from volatility
gains in U.S. stocks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The S&P 500 may reach 1,500 this year as the economy picks
up momentum in the fourth quarter, according to  Byron Wien , vice
chairman of Blackstone Group LP’s advisory services unit.  “Housing is bottoming, gasoline is down from the beginning
of the year, 90 percent of the people in the country have
jobs,” Wien said in an interview this morning on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” show. “The European situation is
getting better, not resolved, but getting better. The fiscal
cliff will be deferred,” he said, referring to higher taxes and
spending cuts that will take effect at year-end unless Congress
acts. “There will be more good news than bad.”  European Markets  The  Stoxx 600 (SXXP)  slipped from its highest level since March
19. Mining companies led losses after a director at Vale SA, the
world’s biggest iron-ore producer, said that  China ’s “golden
years” are behind it. Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. slid 8.5
percent as the Kazakh metal producer posted a 60 percent slump
in  first-half profit . Stock markets in  Italy ,  Greece ,  Austria 
and Luxembourg were closed for public holidays today.  Standard Chartered  gained 4.1 percent after it agreed to
pay $340 million to settle a probe by New York regulators into
allegations it helped funnel Iranian money into the U.S. The
regulator had threatened to strip the lender of its license to
operate in the state.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 0.3 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index slid 1.1 percent and Russia’s Micex
Index lost 0.8 percent. Markets in  India ,  South Korea  and  Poland 
were closed for holidays.  Of the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI index, 12
advanced.  Oil for September delivery rose 1 percent to settle at
$94.33 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , a three-
month high, after the U.S. Energy Department reported a decline
in stockpiles and  Saudi Arabia  called on its citizens to leave
Lebanon, adding to tensions in the  Middle East .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  