-- Mystery Dog, Shakespeare, Peyroux Sings: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-08-17T14:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-15/mystery-dog-shakespeare-peyroux-sings-london-weekend.html
The  National Theatre  is staging the
bestselling story of a boy and a big black poodle.  Christopher sets off to find out why Mrs. Shears’s pooch
was killed in Mark Haddon’s novel “The Curious Incident of the
Dog in the Night-Time.” The theatrical version brings in other
narrators, such as a social worker (Niamh Cusack) who reads
passages from the book.  Though occasionally awkward, the play features strong
acting from Luke Treadaway (as Christopher) and a lively in-the-
round staging. Information:  http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk/ 
or +44-20-7452-3000.  Ever wondered what an amplified cactus sounds like?  You can hear one played at the Proms tonight in a tribute
to composer John Cage, who would’ve turned 100 this year. In
“Branches” (1976), Cage instructs percussionists to mike up
one or more cactus plants and pluck the needles with toothpicks.  Information:  http://www.bbc.co.uk/proms  or +44-845-401-
5040.  To eat before or after the Prom, Racine is nearby. This
unfussy French restaurant celebrated its 10th anniversary in
June and is a favorite of Londoners. Chef-owner Henry Harris is
usually in the kitchen, and this week he serves grouse.
Information:  http://www.racine-restaurant.com/  or +44-20-7584-
4477.  Saturday  If you think Londoners can get aggressive nowadays, you
should have seen them back in the 16th century.  Swarms of city dwellers paid to watch bears get savaged by
dogs on the south bank. The skull of one martyred creature, dug
up in 1989 on the site of the Globe Theatre, is one of the first
displays in “Shakespeare: Staging the World” at the  British
Museum .  Further along is the eyeball of a Jesuit priest suspected
of being part of the gunpowder plot against the king. After his
hanging in 1606, his right eye was fished out of the pot in
which his quartered body was being boiled.  The exhibition extends well beyond Shakespeare’s own time
and place to those periods and geographical areas that inspired
his plays:  Italy ,  Africa , and America.  Through Nov. 25. Information:  http://www.britishmuseum.org 
or +44-20-7323-8299.  Malabar Junction is a small and inexpensive restaurant near
the British Museum serving the South Indian cuisine of Cochin,
Malabar and Travancore. Dishes include a selection of dosa
crispy pancakes, vegetarian options and mains such as green
mutton masala. Information:  http://www.malabarjunction.co.uk/  or
+44-20-7580-5230/.  Saturday Night  Madeleine Peyroux brings her mix of jazz, blues, folk and
country to London. The French-American singer’s style recalls
 Billie Holiday ,  Joni Mitchell  and Bessie Smith. She writes her
own songs, and has covered everyone from  Bob Dylan  to  Leonard Cohen . A rendition of  Tom Waits ’s “(Looking for) The Heart of
Saturday Night” should be perfect for her Aug. 18 show.  O2 Shepherd’s Bush Empire, Shepherd’s Bush Green, W12 8TT.
Information: +44-844-477-2000,  http://madeleinepeyroux.com/  or
 http://www.o2shepherdsbushempire.co.uk .  Sunday  Ambling down the concrete ramp at Tate Modern this weekend,
you might run into a woman telling you she’s no good at chess.  She’s one of the people taking part in Tino Sehgal’s
“These Associations,” the latest installment in the Unilever
Series (which previously featured slides, a crack in the floor,
and a glowing sun).  In Sehgal’s performance-art piece, trained participants
roam up and down the hall, alone or in a group, and run, sit on
the floor, or chant. If you stare at one long enough, they might
stop and talk to you about a subject close to their heart.  Sehgal says all interpretations of his work are valid.  Information:  http://tate.org.uk  or +44-20-7887-8888.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are their own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 