-- M&A to Grow More ‘Robust’ Next Year, Effron Says
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-10-25T15:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/m-a-to-grow-more-robust-next-year-effron-says.html
The pace of mergers and acquisitions
will become “more robust” in 2013 after this year’s decline,
said Blair Effron, a co-founder of the Centerview Partners LLC
advisory boutique.  “Based on the dialogue we see among companies, I don’t
necessarily see companies, long-term, wanting to sit on their
hands,” Effron said today at the Bloomberg  Dealmakers Summit  in
New York. Clients at Effron’s New York-based firm have included
PepsiCo Inc. and News Corp.  Companies have announced $1.75 trillion in deals this year,
or about 13 percent less than the $2.02 trillion at the same
point in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Activity
rose in the previous two years as economies around the world
emerged from recession.  “As sort of a day-to-day banker, it doesn’t feel like a
down time,” said Jonathan Knee of New York-based  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR) , the author of “The Accidental Investment
Banker.” “It feels like a time when everybody is looking at
everything.”  In the U.S., there have been $662 billion of transactions
in 2012, or 20 percent less than during the same period last
year. Peter Solomon, founder of New York-based Peter J. Solomon
Co., said concerns about the strength of the U.S. recovery will
push companies to make purchases to spur revenue.  Seeking Growth  “You have to acquire today to grow,” said Solomon, whose
firm has advised clients including Walgreen Co. and PVH Corp.
“There’s not growth in the American economy.”  U.S. prospects, however, may look brighter from a distance.
Steven Baronoff, the head of M&A at  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , said
companies outside the U.S. are pursuing acquisitions here
because its economic growth prospects are stronger compared with
many other countries.  “It’s a very attractive market compared to  Europe ,”
Baronoff said in a separate panel discussion at the Dealmakers
Summit today.  The transactions taking place now tend to involve top-
quality assets, said Jeffrey Solomon, head of  Cowen Group Inc. (COWN) ’s
brokerage subsidiary. Just as investors in equity markets are
chasing the safety of low-risk, dividend-paying stocks,
acquirers in the M&A market are only willing to do quality deals
with less risk, he said.  “People are crowding around the best assets,” Solomon
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  