-- A Congress Too Polarized to Protect Itself
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-25T22:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/a-congress-too-polarized-to-protect-itself.html
The U.S. Congress is on an
extended election hiatus, yet there has been no noticeable
decline in its productivity. As polarization and
legislative gridlock have worsened in recent years, the
nation’s great legislative body has withered, losing not
only  popular support  but the ability to exercise its
constitutional powers.  The result has been a troubling expansion of executive
and judicial power. An example is President  Barack Obama ’s
 decision  in June to end the deportation of some illegal
immigrants who came to the U.S. as children. In 2011, he
had rejected calls to circumvent Congress to bring relief
to young immigrants. “You have to pass bills through the
legislature, and then I can sign it,” Obama said at the
time. His reversal may have been justified on the merits,
but it can be rationalized only by congressional
dysfunction.  Executive agencies such as the Environmental
Protection Agency, which is poised to issue its own carbon-
dioxide emissions standards for power plants, devise policy
with little fear of being overruled by Congress (the courts
are another issue). Environmentalists who think this is a
satisfactory arrangement may want to contemplate how such
executive power would be used in a potential  Mitt Romney 
administration.  Parody of Gridlock  Even the Federal Election Commission, itself a parody
of gridlock, takes the law into its own hands. If you
wonder what legislation led to the explosion of undisclosed
campaign donations to shadowy groups, the answer is “none.”
In fact, the McCain-Feingold legislation, passed in 2002,
requires disclosure of such contributions, and the Supreme
Court’s Citizens United ruling  explicitly presumed  that
disclosure would inhibit corruption. The FEC, however, had
issued its own “interpretation of law” in 2007 that quietly
gutted the law’s requirements.  The effects of congressional inaction radiate well
beyond  Washington . We have  previously cited  the economic
costs of gridlock, including the blow to recovery delivered
by last year’s debt-ceiling debacle, a black eye self-
administered by the House of Representatives. Similarly,
congressional gridlock delayed a Federal Aviation
Administration reauthorization bill last year, costing the
government $300 million in airline taxes and leaving 4,000
federal workers furloughed for two weeks. Tens of thousands
of private-sector construction workers went without work or
pay as well.  When ideology and incompetence combined to  weigh down 
a House highway bill this year, state and local governments
across the nation paid a price in stalled projects,
heightened uncertainty and decaying infrastructure.  It’s no wonder some states prefer to bypass Congress
on some matters. The Obama administration has  issued
waivers  to more than half the states allowing them to opt
out of provisions of the federal No Child Left Behind law
passed by Congress and signed by President George W. Bush.
What does Congress say about it? Who cares? The education
law, a reauthorization of a previous statute, hasn’t been
overturned or amended -- such efforts appear well beyond
Congress’s abilities. Instead, it’s simply ignored.  Congressional Overrides  The executive branch and states aren’t alone in
treading on congressional turf. Law professor Richard Hasen
of the University of  California ,  Irvine ,  argues  that the
Supreme Court, too, has been empowered by Congress’s
institutional weakness. Hasen found that the rate of
congressional overrides of Supreme Court statutory
decisions has “plummeted dramatically,” from about 12 per
congressional term in the period from 1975 to 1990 to fewer
than three per term from 2001 to 2012.  “The governing model of Congressional-Supreme Court
relations is that the branches are in dialogue on statutory
interpretation,” Hasen wrote. “Congress writes federal
statutes, the Court interprets them, and Congress has the
power to overrule the Court’s interpretations.”  That power evaporates when a polarized Congress proves
unable to function. Take the case of  NFIB v. Sebelius , in
which the Supreme Court decided the constitutionality of
Obama’s health-care law. The court’s nine justices heard
the case secure in the knowledge that they would have the
final word. There was no chance that a divided Congress
would pass a legislative response to the ruling -- no
matter what decision the justices reached.  The Founders didn’t envision Congress as an inert slab
of marble east of the tidal basin. They devised it to be
the beating heart of representative democracy. The petty
pursuits that have characterized this Congress -- the
 symbolic votes  and cheesy  partisan theater  of the House;
the formaldehyde atmosphere of the Senate, disturbed only
by the occasional thumb twiddle -- are unworthy of its
constitutional mandate, its history or even its current
occupants, who are diminished each time the institution is
brought low.  Regardless of who wins the presidency in November,
congressional leaders of both parties need a new approach
to their jobs and to their relations with one another.
American government is complicated in the best of times,
and partisanship is one of its mainstays. But there is no
excuse for the pathetic state of Congress, an institution
seemingly too weak to act affirmatively but just strong
enough to wreak destruction. To restore the balance of
power among the three branches, and fulfill Congress’s
obligations to the public, congressional leaders must find
ways to work together -- if only to raise their own
institution from its knees.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials,
columns and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Jonathan Alter on why moderate Romney
wouldn’t make it past  Inauguration Day ; Stephen L. Carter
on our  unprincipled politics ; Jonathan Weil on why  mandated
audits should end ; Dean Bakopoulos on the  unpredictable
Iowa voter .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 