-- ABB Chief to Hone Power-Systems Unit to Stem Margin Declines
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-10-25T13:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/abb-cautiously-optimistic-on-outlook-as-profit-beats-estimates.html
ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  Chief Executive Officer Joe Hogan said he’s working to improve the power-grid division’s
performance following delays in connecting a German offshore
wind farm.  The power-systems division booked a $20 million charge and
won’t meet a medium-term operating-margin target of 7 percent to
11 percent of sales this year, Zurich-based ABB  said  today. The
unit, which may post a charge of as much as $50 million in the
fourth quarter, will be “back in the middle” of the margin
target range in 2013, Hogan said on a conference call.  An economic contraction stemming from the sovereign-debt
crisis in countries using the euro has held back earnings across
the engineering industry, including at  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Schneider
Electric SA. (SU)  Hogan has instigated a savings program at ABB’s
low-voltage products unit and is being more selective on
projects. The CEO predicted today that ABB will exceed a savings
plan of $1 billion this year and is targeting a similar goal
next year.  “I get concerned that a lot of the macroeconomic signals
point down right now,” Hogan said in a video presentation of
earnings. “One area of concern is power systems. I expect to
see better performance out of that business in the upcoming
quarters.”  Stock Declines  ABB  dropped  as much as 2 percent to 17.25 Swiss francs, the
lowest intraday price since Sept. 7, and traded 0.9 percent
lower at 3:21 p.m. in Zurich. That values the engineering
company at 40.4 billion francs ($43 billion). Siemens stock has
gained 4.2 percent in 2012, while Schneider Electric has jumped
19 percent.  The power-systems division’s third-quarter earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization fell to 5.9
percent of revenue from 9.7 percent a year earlier.  Delays to the DolWin 1 offshore wind project led to the
third-quarter charge at the business, ABB said in a
presentation. The manufacturer has made some “needed”
management and organization changes to the unit to improve
performance, Hogan said.  Higher-priced large power-transformer orders should show up
in sales during 2013, replacing a backlog of lower-priced
contracts that ABB is working through, Hogan said.  Profit Falls  Third-quarter net income fell 4 percent to $759 million,
ABB said. Analysts predicted profit of $738.2 million. Earnings
before interest and taxes fell to $1.14 billion from $1.22
billion, short of an analyst target of $1.17 billion. Orders
decreased 5 percent to $9.3 billion.  The difference between profit and what analysts were
predicting is “modest,” yet power systems and a more negative
forecast relative to the second quarter are disappointing
developments, Andreas Willi, a London-based analyst at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., said in a note.  “We expect some slight downward revision to estimates due
to power systems,” said Takis Spiliopoulos, an analyst at Bank
Vontobel in Zurich. “However, our confidence level remains high
that the first quarter has been the trough in terms of
margins.”  Connections Hampered  Hogan aims for a greater portion of sales from automation
and service businesses as uncertainty over wind-farms subsidies
threatens new power orders in  Europe  and the U.S. ABB and
Siemens are grappling with issues connecting wind farms to the
grid, which contributed to the Munich-based competitor cutting a
profit goal earlier this year.  ABB will closely watch economic developments in  China , the
U.S. and western Europe in coming quarters, Hogan said. Base
orders for products under $15 million make up most of ABB’s
sales, which increased 4 percent to $9.75 billion.  Hogan, who has led ABB since 2008, reiterated targets for
2015, saying expansion in the U.S. is “paying off” and
additional revenue from the acquisition of Thomas & Betts Corp.
give ABB reason for “cautious optimism.” At the same time, the
stronger U.S. currency cut profit by $100 million in the third
quarter.  Cost savings in the first nine months of the year totaled
about $820 million. ABB has signaled a temporary freeze on new
takeovers until next year as the company digests $10 billion of
acquisitions since 2010. The acquisitions of Baldor Electric Co.
and Thomas & Betts have boosted the low-voltage and automation
units. ABB has said it may spend as much as $10 billion on
acquisitions by 2015, mostly in automation.  No major deals are “imminent,” Hogan said today. ABB’s
choice of Chief Financial Officer to replace Michael Demare, who
is leaving to become chairman of  Syngenta AG (SYNN) , will be “very
clear” in the next few weeks, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  