-- Macquarie First-Half Profit Rises 18% on Trading Businesses
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-10-26T05:31:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/macquarie-first-half-profit-rises-18-on-currency-rates-trading.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , Australia’s
largest investment bank, said first-half profit rose 18 percent
from a year earlier on increased earnings from its fixed income,
currency and commodity trading business.  Net income advanced in the six months to Sept. 30 to A$361
million ($374 million), versus the median estimate of five
analysts for A$371.8 million. The Sydney-based bank repeated a
forecast that the group’s full-year result will improve from the
prior 12 months, provided markets don’t worsen.  Chief Executive Officer Nicholas Moore has joined banks
including  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse Group AG in cutting jobs as
trading and merger and acquisitions fees dwindled,  Europe ’s debt
crisis roiled markets and  China ’s economic growth slowed. In
 Australia , dealmaking is set for its slowest year since 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Macquarie’s numbers are reasonable considering market
circumstances,” said Peter Esho, chief market analyst at City
Index Ltd. in Sydney. “Macquarie is doing its best to cut costs
and this is helping the bottom line.”  The bank’s fixed income, currency and commodity trading
unit reported profit of A$219 million in the half, from A$6
million in the same period a year earlier, it said. Commodities
trading rose 21 percent from a year earlier, underpinned by
energy and agricultural products, Chief Financial Officer
Patrick Upfold said on a conference call.  Surplus Capital  Macquarie’s shares added 3.5 percent to A$30.85 at the
close of Sydney trading, taking this year’s gain to 30 percent,
beating the 10 percent advance of the S&P/ASX 200 Index.
Macquarie has purchased A$251 million of its own stock under a
A$500 million buyback program, paying an average of A$25.58, it
said today.  The group has “billions” in surplus capital and would
consider acquisitions across all geographies while its region-
specific funds in areas including  Korea , the  Philippines ,
 Mexico ,  India  and  Russia  will also consider purchases, Moore
said in a telephone interview.  “We have looked at acquisitions in the past and we will
continue to look at them,” Moore said.  Macquarie’s securities unit reported a loss of A$64
million, wider than the A$19 million loss a year earlier as
Australian equity capital markets activity dropped 46 percent in
the period, the firm said. Macquarie Capital, which advises
clients on mergers and capital markets, reported a profit of
A$10 million after advising on 205 transactions valued at A$36
billion.  More Confidence  While the two units continue to be impacted by subdued
market conditions, “there is more confidence out there than
there was 12 months ago,” Moore said in the interview.  The contribution from Macquarie’s funds unit dropped 11
percent to A$356 million from a year earlier while its banking
and financial services division reported a 28 percent gain to
A$185 million.  Staff numbers were at 13,463 at Sept. 30, down from 14,202
at March 31, the bank said. Operating expenses dropped 9 percent
from a year earlier and 17 percent from the prior half.  Based on today’s results, analyst consensus forecasts for
Macquarie’s full-year profit is “too high”, said Victor German, an analyst at Nomura Australia Ltd. in Sydney. Macquarie
may report profit for this financial year of A$844 million,
according to the median  estimate  of nine analysts.  “Nobody really doubts Macquarie will improve on its 2012
performance, but the big question is by how much?” German said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  