-- Madoff Brother’s Sentencing Delayed at Defense Request
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-25T23:25:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/madoff-brother-s-sentencing-delayed-at-defense-request.html
Peter Madoff ’s sentencing for aiding
his brother Bernard’s Ponzi scheme was pushed back to Dec. 20
from Nov. 9 at the request of the defense.  Peter Madoff, who pleaded guilty in June in  Manhattan 
federal court, asked for more time to file the 11 years of
amended tax returns required under the terms of his agreement
with the U.S. Bernard Madoff received a prison sentence of
150 years for perpetrating the biggest investor fraud in U.S.
history.  “Much of the information necessary for Mr. Madoff to
prepare accurate amended returns was in the possession of the
government,” defense attorney John Wing told U.S. District
Judge Laura Taylor Swain in an Oct. 23 letter. Although Madoff
“worked diligently” to prepare the returns, Wing said, his
client is unable to meet a presentence deadline.  Swain granted the request today in a five-word order
handwritten on the bottom of the signature page of Wing’s
letter.  Peter Madoff, 67, pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy
to commit  securities fraud  and one count of falsifying records,
and faces a prison term of at least 10 years.  Madoff, who was chief compliance officer at Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities LLC, denies having known his
brother’s business was a sham until it collapsed in 2008.
Investors were thought to have lost $20 billion in principal,
though the firm’s trustee has said the figure is closer to
$17 billion.  The case is U.S. v. Madoff, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  