-- Aetna Third-Quarter Profit Rises as Enrollment Surges
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-10-25T20:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/aetna-third-quarter-profit-rises-as-enrollment-surges.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) , the third-biggest U.S.
health insurer, said third-quarter profit rose, defying analyst
predictions for a decline, as the company boosted revenue from
premiums and medical costs stayed stable.  Earnings excluding one-time costs climbed to $1.55 a share,
21 cents above the average estimate of 19 analysts tracked by
Bloomberg. Full-year profit is now expected to be about $5.10 a
share, at the top end of Aetna’s previous forecast, the
Hartford, Connecticut-based carrier said today in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer Mark Bertolini announced the $5.6
billion purchase of  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH)  on Aug. 20, as
Aetna expands into growing markets for government-backed
Medicare and Medicaid plans. The insurers’ third-quarter
surprise was driven largely by lower-than-expected medical costs
in plans for private employers, said  Ana Gupte , a Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York, in a note to clients.  The quarter’s results “should offer further relief to
managed care investors,” following last week’s higher earnings
from  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest U.S. insurer, Gupte
said. “Managed care fundamentals particularly within the
commercial risk market are solid.”  Aetna gained 1.1 percent to $44.43 at the close in New
York. The company’s shares have increased 5.3 percent this year.  International Growth  UnitedHealth, based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota ,  beat
analysts ’ estimates and raised its 2012 profit forecast on Oct.
16, citing moderating costs and rising enrollment. That followed
a week after the company said it would pay $4.9 billion for a 90
percent stake in  Amil Participacoes SA (AMIL3) ,  Brazil ’s largest
managed-care provider.  While Aetna may expand into domestic insurance outside the
U.S., for now it sees a better bet in selling information
technology and other services that help emerging countries
modernize their health systems, Joseph Zubretsky, the company’s
chief financial officer, said in a telephone interview.  “Our future lies more in health-care services and health
information technology than merely just in the insurance
business,” he said. “Job one is to help foreign governments
build out the health-care infrastructure of the future.”  Aetna already offers coverage for expatriate workers
outside the U.S. It’s more active currently in the Middle East
and Asia than Latin America, Zubretsky said.  “We have a lot of motivation and desire to grow
overseas,” he said. “The meaningful revenue that we’ll get out
of this is not in our strategic planning horizon. It’s beyond
that. But we feel compelled to begin making the investment.”  2013 Outlook  Aetna expects earnings per share to rise in 2013, pushed by
growing revenue from Medicare, the U.S.-backed program for the
elderly and disabled, and Medicaid, the state-federal program
for the poor, Zubretsky told analysts on a  conference call 
earlier in the day. The company will give more details at a Dec.
12 conference, he said.  While government business grows, profits may be squeezed
for the private-employer plans that make up the bulk of its
membership, the CFO said. Some contracts will require the
company to account for low medical costs this year by holding
down premiums in 2013. And enrollment will be limited by the
“lack of employment growth” in the U.S., Zubretsky said.  Earnings Rise  Third-quarter net income rose 1.8 percent to $499.2
million, or $1.47 a share, from $490.4 million, or $1.30, a year
earlier. Revenue increased to $8.92 billion from $8.48 billion,
helped by a 7 percent increase in customer premiums.  The company had 18.17 million people in medical plans at
the end of the quarter, less than the 18.23 million a year
earlier. The enrollment did grow from this year’s second
quarter, and the company said it had already reached the goal it
set for membership at the beginning of 2012.  The insurer spent 80.7 percent of the  premiums  it collected
on medical care for members. That, too, was up from 78.9 percent
a year earlier while still an improvement over the second
quarter.  Aetna has been able to attract new customers this year
without undercutting its profit margins, said  Dave Shove , a BMO
Capital Markets analyst in New York.  “Management has placed an emphasis on lowering costs and
keeping margin intact, rather than chasing members with price,”
Shove said in a note to clients yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  