-- Afren to Invest $120 Million in East Africa as Oil Race Quickens
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-10-25T12:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/afren-to-invest-120-million-in-east-africa-as-oil-race-quickens.html
Afren Plc (AFR) , a U.K. oil and gas
explorer, plans to spend as much as $120 million in two years
drilling wells in East Africa as the region’s untapped resources
lure competitors from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to Total SA.  Afren intends to drill four exploration wells, Associate
Director Galib Virani said today in an interview in Kenya’s
capital, Nairobi. The company has licenses in Kenya, Tanzania,
Madagascar, Ethiopia and the Seychelles, he said, without
specifying where each well will be located.  East Africa has become one of the world’s most active
exploration areas since  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  made the
decade’s biggest gas discovery off Mozambique. The growing
interest in the region was evident in the bidding war this year
between Shell and Thailand’s  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) 
for Anadarko’s London-listed partner Cove Energy Plc.  East Africa is set to become the “jewel in Afren’s
exploration portfolio,” Virani said. “We have always been
attracted to the geology in East Africa. The upside is very
significant.”  The five nations targeted by Afren hold an estimated 5.8
billion barrels of resources, mainly oil, according to seismic
and aero-magnetic data collected by the company at a cost of
$125 million, Virani said. Afren started building its East
African portfolio in mid-2010, and plans to use cash from its
Nigerian operations to finance work in the region, he said.  The London-based company and its partners already began
drilling the Paipai-1 well in Kenya’s Block 10A, where the U.K.
explorer has a 20 percent stake. The block is operated by  Tullow
Oil Plc. (TLW)   Elsewhere in Africa, Afren holds licenses in Nigeria,
Ghana, the Republic of Congo and  Ivory Coast , Virani said. It
also has producing assets in Iraq.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  