-- African Trade Barriers Curb Food Output, World Bank Says
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-10-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/african-trade-barriers-curb-food-output-world-bank-says.html
Trade barriers within  Africa  are
depriving farmers of fertilizers and seeds that could boost
production and help the region avoid food crises, the  World Bank 
said in a report.  African farmers could grow enough food to feed the
continent if policy makers agreed to lift cross-border
restrictions, the Washington-based bank said in the report
today. Instead they face regulations, high transportation costs
and unpredictable trade policies that lead countries to import
food from other continents, according to the study.  “The potential to increase agricultural production in
Africa is enormous,” the bank said in the  report . “Yields for
many crops are a fraction of what farmers elsewhere in the world
are achieving and output could easily increase two to three
times if farmers were to use updated seeds and technologies.”  World  food prices  rose in September to the highest in six
months as dairy and meat producers passed on higher feed costs
to consumers, the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization said this month. That’s pushing Africa’s food
imports bill up because of its reliance on global markets,
according to the bank’s report. For example, only 5 percent of
imports of cereals are provided by African farmers, the bank
said in the report.  “Trade in staples in Africa continues to be affected by
measures such as export and import bans; variable import tariffs
and quotas; restrictive rules of origin; and price controls,”
according to the World Bank report. “Often these are decided
upon without transparency and are poorly communicated, if at
all, to traders and officials at the border.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  