-- Agent ‘Shag’ Among Secrets Spilled in Spy Chief’s Diary
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-10-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/agent-shag-among-secrets-spilled-in-spy-chief-s-diary.html
The inside story on the discovery of
the “Cambridge Five” spy ring, radio-controlled carrier
pigeons and a double-agent codenamed “Shag” are among secrets
disclosed in the newly released diaries of a Cold War British
spymaster.  Guy Liddell was deputy director-general of  MI5, the
internal security service , from 1945 until 1953, keeping a daily
diary that remained secret until its publication today by the
 National Archives  in  London . It shows how he discussed the hunt
for Soviet moles inside the British establishment with his
friends Anthony Blunt and Kim Philby, both later unmasked as
members of a group of communist spies recruited at  Cambridge
University  in the 1930s.  The 10 volumes, parts of which are still redacted to
protect names and operations, also show how the government was
planning for a possible Russian invasion, and how MI5 cultivated
“Shag,” a Soviet double-agent, who they hoped would help them
catch other spies. In 1949, Shag was summoned to meet a Soviet
contact.  “The man meeting him will be smoking a cigarette and have
a rubber band on his little finger,” Liddell wrote, describing
the arrangements as “quite fantastic.” “Shag will bring out
his snuffbox and take a pinch of snuff. The visitor will then
ask for a light and offer Shag a cigarette, when the latter will
reply that he takes snuff. This will be the all-clear.”  ‘Double Cross’  The diaries indicate that Liddell had expectations that
Shag might help MI5 repeat one of British intelligence’s great
World War II deceptions,  the “Double Cross” operation , in
which it captured and turned virtually every German spy in the
U.K., using them to feed false information back to Berlin. In
fact, he was the victim of a much more successful campaign by
Soviet intelligence.  By January 1950, Liddell was worried about a Soviet network
operating in Britain. Two weeks later, he was consulted about
the possibility of prosecuting Guy Burgess, a British diplomat,
for going on a drinking binge and publicly identifying U.K.
agents during a 1949 visit to Gibraltar.  “My own view was that Guy Burgess was not the sort of
person who would deliberately pass confidential information,”
Liddell noted. “There was no doubt that drink loosened his
tongue.”  In April 1951, MI5 got its first break in a two-year hunt
for a mole who’d leaked documents from  Washington . Information
from the U.S. narrowed the suspects down to two men, one of them
Donald Maclean, another diplomat. He was put under surveillance.  ‘Gone Off’  By May 18, MI5 began to plan how it would interrogate
Maclean. Then, on May 29, Liddell recorded that his “watchers”
had lost their man over the weekend. At 11 a.m. he was told that
Burgess too had disappeared.  “It seems pretty clear that the pair of them have gone
off,” Liddell wrote. That evening, he consulted Blunt.  The records that follow show how Liddell gradually came to
suspect his friends Blunt and Philby. At first, he wondered
whether Burgess might have learned that Maclean was under
suspicion by reading files on Philby’s desk in Washington, where
Philby was the British intelligence representative.  By June, Liddell recorded the  CIA  had marked Philby as
“persona non grata.” King George VI was asking questions about
Blunt, who was by then a prominent art historian responsible for
the royal collection. Liddell reassured the king’s private
secretary, Alan Lascelles, who expressed relief, saying the
queen was already horrified by Blunt’s atheism.  ‘Somewhat Blacker’  By October 1951, Liddell had dropped first-name terms in
his diary. “The case against Philby seems somewhat blacker,”
he wrote. Still, he successfully argued against interrogating
Blunt. By November, he was referring to Philby by a codename,
“Peach.” At the end of the year, following a series of
interrogations, MI5 told the U.S. it believed Philby was a spy,
though it wasn’t able to prove it.  Burgess and Maclean  reappeared in Moscow in 1956 . It wasn’t
until Philby’s 1964 flight to the  Soviet Union  that British
intelligence finally confirmed he too was a traitor. Blunt was
also identified as a spy, though his involvement remained  secret
until 1979 , when he was unmasked by the press.  Liddell, who died in 1958, having been passed over for the
job of director-general of MI5 in 1953, also offered insights in
his diaries into the development of new secret technologies.  “Captain Caiger came to see me. He is our pigeon expert,”
Liddell recorded in 1946. “He is, in fact, the nearest thing to
a pigeon that I have ever seen. He talks, thinks and dreams
about them. Pigeons might be able to home on an electric beam,
in other words that you might have radio controlled pigeons.
There is apparently a slight suspicion that a man in  Scotland  is
already doing this.”  While Liddell made no further record of this, Chinese
scientists announced in 2007 that they had developed remote-
controlled pigeons, implanting electrodes in their brains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 