-- Thai Flood Zone Fortified to Lure Manufacturers: Southeast Asia
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-10-26T02:05:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/thai-flood-zone-fortified-to-lure-manufacturers-southeast-asia.html
Worasit Sriburanasorn points to the
spot where floodwaters overwhelmed a dike in central Thailand
and left hundreds of factories submerged a year ago, part of a
tour he now routinely gives to customers wary of returning.  Workers at Hi-Tech Industrial Estate are completing a levy
that’s 1.2 meters (3.9 feet) higher and twice as wide as the one
that failed when waters rose 4.9 meters above  sea level  last
year. The barrier is central to convincing suppliers to
companies such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  to move
production back to Ayutthaya province, Worasit said.  “Every time that our customers come, they say ‘I want to
see the actual dike,’” said Worasit, a senior manager at  Hana
Microelectronics Pcl (HANA) , Thailand’s biggest semiconductor packager,
as he stood on top of a mound of dirt and stone about 60
kilometers (37 miles) north of Bangkok. “From what our
customers have seen, they are quite impressed.”  While  Japan  has invested $2.1 billion in Thailand this year
and companies from  Toyota (7203)  Motor Corp. to Honda Motor Co. say
they will continue production in the country, only 55 percent of
factories have fully resumed operations a year after the floods.
Convincing manufacturers to stay is crucial to sustaining a
recovery in the economy, which the central bank expects will
grow 5.7 percent this year after expanding 0.1 percent in 2011.  Japan,  Thailand ’s biggest investor, is seeking to pump more
money into the country even after the floods because of the
strong yen, Myanmar’s emergence and frictions with  China ,
according to Supavud Saicheua, managing director at Phatra
Securities Pcl.  “So far the perception seems to be that the attractiveness
of Thailand in the medium term remains unaffected,” he said by
phone from Bangkok. “If there is another major flood like the
last time, then all bets are off.”  Economy Rebounds  Thailand’s central bank forecasts the economy will grow 5.7
percent this year and 5 percent next year. Industrial output has
yet to surpass pre-flood levels as a slowdown in global growth
damps demand for the nation’s exports.  Of the 839 affected plants in the seven business parks, 459
have fully resumed operations, 225 have partially opened and 68
have closed or relocated, the Industrial Estate Authority of
Thailand said on Oct. 15. About 20,000 fewer workers are
employed at three of the estates for which the IEAT had data.  Foreign direct investment in Thailand reached $5.1 billion
in the first seven months of the year, compared with $4.9
billion in the same period last year, according to Bank of
Thailand statistics. Japan accounted for $2.1 billion this year,
compared with $2.3 billion a year earlier, the data show.  75-Kilometer Wall  Japanese companies in the automobile industry can’t easily
shift operations to another country because their customers and
suppliers are in Thailand, according to Junichiro Haseba, an
official with the  Japan External Trade Organization .  “Some companies withdrew from the Ayutthaya area but the
majority of them just moved to different areas in Thailand,” he
said by phone from Bangkok. “Only a small percentage of them
moved overseas.”  At Rojana Industrial Estate in Ayutthaya, workers have
almost finished building a 75-kilometer concrete wall to protect
the 213 factories in the zone.  Honda (7267)  mentioned the barrier in
resuming production after suffering 23 billion yen ($288
million) in losses because of the floods.  Toyota, which booked 110 billion yen in flood-related
losses because its supply chain was disrupted even though its
own factories weren’t damaged, will continue to use Thailand as
a production base, according to Joichi Tachikawa, a Tokyo-based
spokesman for the carmaker.  Dam Management  Rainfall last year was about 40 percent more than the
annual average, filling Thailand’s dams up to capacity and
prompting authorities to release more than 9 billion cubic
meters of water down a river basin the size of  Florida . The
deluge inundated seven industrial parks that helped transform
Thailand from an agriculture-based economy to a manufacturing
hub since the first one was built four decades ago.  Less rain this year has spared the industrial zones north
of Bangkok, none of which managed to complete dikes before the
monsoon season that runs from about July to November. Water
levels in Bhumibol dam, Thailand’s biggest, averaged 62 percent
of capacity from Oct. 1 to Oct. 22, compared with 98 percent in
the same period a year earlier, according to data on the Royal
Irrigation Department’s website.  “We were lucky this year that we didn’t have as much
rainfall as we had last year,” Anond Snidvongs, a member of the
government’s water and flood-management committee, told
reporters this month. “Even before rainy season started, we
practiced and did a lot of rehearsal.”  Chao Phraya  Flood walls for the seven inundated industrial estates have
cost about 5 billion baht ($163 million), with the government
paying for two-thirds of the total, according to the IEAT. The
government is now preparing to award 324 billion baht in
contracts to revamp the water-management system in areas
including the Chao Phraya river basin.  A third of those funds will go to a floodway that can
handle about 1,500 cubic meters of water per second, or about 40
percent of the capacity of the Chao Phraya river that flows
through downtown Bangkok. The rest will be spent on reservoirs,
urban planning, warnings systems and drainage areas, according
to the Office of National Water and Flood Management Policy.  The government has prequalified eight groups to bid for the
projects, including companies such as Korea Water Resources
Corp., China International Water & Power Corp., Bangkok-based
 Ch. Karnchang Pcl (CK)  and Japan’s  Obayashi Corp. (1802)  The list will be
cut to three on Jan. 31, with the winning bidder announced on
April 10, according to the national water and flood office.  Emergency Spending  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s cabinet approved 350
billion baht in emergency spending last year to pay for the
projects, a sum it will need to borrow next year before the
decree expires.  The use of the emergency decree means the projects will
avoid parliamentary scrutiny and saddle the government with
financing costs, according to Korn Chatikavanij, a former
finance minister and deputy leader of the opposition Democrat
party.  “There is a complete lack of transparency,” he said by
phone, referring to the planned spending. “We don’t even know
what the plans are in detail. Everything is being discussed
behind closed doors.”  Thailand’s Board of Investment said yesterday it is
providing incentives for 35 projects valued at 28.4 billion baht
in Ayutthaya and Pathum Thani province, including two plants
that will supply autoparts to Honda’s local unit.  Sony Relocates  Not all companies are ready to return to Ayutthaya. Down
the road from Hana’s operations, a  Sony Corp. (6758)  factory sits
empty, with water stains visible on the walls and weeds poking
up in the parking lot. The company, which has yet to reopen two
production centers damaged in the floods, decided to expand a
facility in a province east of Bangkok that sits outside the
river basin, according to spokesman  George Boyd .  “Thailand remains an important production base for Sony,”
Boyd said in an e-mail. “We are considering various future
possibilities for the two sites as we monitor the Thai
government’s progress with flood-prevention measures and the
business situation.”  Hana has spent more than 230 million baht to protect its
factory from future floods, including adding water pumps,
waterproofing walls and raising machinery. It also bought a
removable aluminum flood wall that can be erected in five hours
around key buildings, alleviating the need for sand bags.  A large floodway through the region may help prevent a
similar disaster occurring in the future. Until then, another
massive deluge would make it “almost impossible” for employees
to get to work even if the factory stays dry because Hana has no
dormitories on site, Worawit said. The company is now investing
in facilities in northern Thailand and  Cambodia  to diversify its
risk in case of another flood, he said.  “It will cost us more to relocate,” he said. “Everything
is here -- people, facilities, everything. So you live with
it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  