-- Ai Weiwei Flips White House the Bird; Funny Lichtenstein
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/ai-weiwei-flips-white-house-the-bird-funny-lichtenstein.html
The first U.S. retrospective of
Chinese Conceptualist, architect and activist Ai Weiwei is at
 Washington , D.C.’s Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden. It’s
clear that his cultural significance far outweighs his artistic
importance.  Any discussion of Ai must consider his roles as an
outspoken provocateur, blogger and critic of  China ’s
totalitarianism and of traditional artistic values.  Ai’s calculated works, no matter how humorous, visually
arresting or seemingly benign, are almost always politically
charged -- and often the ideology runs their aestheticism
aground.  At the Hirshhorn, we encounter a handsome, though rather
dull show, including videos, handcrafted wooden sculptures,
documentary photographs and colorful installations.  There’s a circle of 42 piggybacking bicycles and a huge
snake, made of children’s backpacks, hugging the ceiling. Kids
will have a ball here, especially if you don’t tell them what
the works are about.  In “Straight,” rows of stacked, re-straightened, rusted
reinforcing bars, undulating like waves, are spread across the
gallery floor. Their Minimalist simplicity becomes suspect,
though, when you discover that you’ve been duped: Like a smoking
gun, the bars were taken from the remains of shoddily built
schools devastated during the Sichuan earthquake.  Chinese Olympics  The Chinese government has been hot and cold toward Ai.
Initially, his rising fame was financially supported and
internationally marketed. Ai participated, with architects
 Herzog & de Meuron , in the design of the Beijing Olympic
stadium.  But his subversive views and agitations have since caused
him to be beaten by the Chinese police and his studio to be
razed. In 2011, charged with  tax evasion  and the distribution of
pornography, Ai spent 81 days in a Chinese prison.  I can embrace Ai’s outrage and existential despair. But
when he photographs himself flipping the White House the bird,
his antics are merely childish.  At times his work feels senseless and wasteful, as in the
photographs of him dropping a Han dynasty urn. His Pop-art
vandalism of ancient vases with industrial paint and the Coca-
Cola logo make my heart sink every time I encounter them.  Ultimately, Ai comes off as an activist exploiting art for
social causes.  “Ai Weiwei: According to What?” runs through Feb. 24 at the
Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, on the National Mall at
Independence Ave. at 7th St. SW. Information: +1-202-633-1000;
 http://www.hirshhorn.si.edu .  Roy Lichtenstein  Pop-artist  Roy Lichtenstein  (1923-1997) may be the biggest
sellout in the history of 20th-century art.  Although Lichtenstein was billed as a painter, the wall
text at the National Gallery of Art’s retrospective informs us
that he “was fascinated by the one thing he could not seem to
make: a brushstroke.”  This tells you nearly all you need to know regarding
Lichtenstein’s oeuvre: He early on abandoned attempts at making
Abstract Expressionist paintings for the less-daunting task of
making funny, kitschy cartoons.  In this show, we see Lichtenstein appropriating everyone
from  Mickey Mouse  and  Donald Duck  to the ancient Greeks, Chinese
Song dynasty painters, Monet, Picasso, Mondrian and Matisse.  Whole rooms are devoted to his cold, flat formless poster-
colored dallies in war, romance, abstraction, the landscape, the
studio and the nude.  To walk through this show is to feel that masterworks by
other artists have been unmercifully run through Lichtenstein’s
Ben-Day-dot-patterned Pop-art wringer. Great art has been turned
into comic fare.  The best thing about this exhibition is that to exit you
must walk through galleries devoted to pictures by Braque,
Derain, Kandinsky, Matisse and Picasso, where great painting
makes a stand.  “Roy Lichtenstein: A Retrospective” runs through Jan. 13 at
the National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C., on the National Mall
between 3rd and 7th Streets at Constitution Ave. NW.
Information: +1-202-737-4215;  http://nga.gov .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on  cars  and Jeremy
Gerard on  music .  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in  New York , at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 