-- Usmanov’s Internet Company Sold $320 Million Facebook Stake
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-25T17:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/mail-ru-sold-320-million-facebook-stake-fuels-payout-optimism.html
Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL) , billionaire
 Alisher Usmanov ’s Internet company, cashed in about $320 million
by selling a stake in  Facebook Inc. (FB)  before an expiration of
share lockups for some employees of the social networking site.  Mail.ru sold about 16 million Facebook shares this month,
according to the Moscow-based company’s spokeswoman Ksenia
Chabanenko. Its stake dropped to 0.75 percent as of today,
according to a company filing. Facebook averaged at $20.41 in
October, meaning the shares could have earned $327 million. The
stock has recovered 26 percent since the beginning of September.  Usmanov, who made his fortune in metals and mining and who
once owned 10 percent of Menlo Park,  California-based Facebook ,
is among early investors that have been cutting their holdings.
Facebook Director  Peter Thiel  sold more than $1 billion worth of
shares in the IPO and after the end of the first lockup. The
ending of another restrictive period on Oct. 29 may weigh on the
shares, said  Scott Kessler , an equity analyst for S&P Capital
IQ.  “It’s going to be harder for it to appreciate,” said New
York-based Kessler, who cut his rating of the stock to “hold”
from “buy” today.  Facebook shares jumped 19 percent yesterday after the
company reported sales that topped analysts’ estimates. They
slipped 2 percent to $22.76 at 12:55 p.m. in New York.  Digital Sky  The lockup period for some Facebook employees that ends
Oct. 29 will make 234 million shares available for sale. On Aug.
16, Facebook unlocked 271.1 million shares, the first of five
insider sale restrictions scheduled during its first year as a
public company.  When Usmanov acquired a 10 percent stake in Facebook in
2009, his fund Digital Sky Technologies persuaded founder  Mark
Zuckerberg  to sell by giving up voting rights. Part of Usmanov’s
stake in Facebook was then transferred to Mail.ru before the own
IPO in 2010.  Mail.ru rose 4 percent to $33.48 at the close of trading in
London. The stock has gained 29 percent this year.  “Investors are hoping that the company will share proceeds
with shareholders and pay dividends,” said Anna Lepetukhina, an
analyst at Sberbank CIB, in an e-mail.  Mail.ru, Usmanov and his managing partner in DST, Yuri
Milner, cashed in their investments during Facebook’s IPO.
Mail.ru alone received about $745 million from selling Facebook
shares, according to its first-half report. It then agreed to
pay $795 million in special dividends in August.  Usmanov invested in Facebook when the company was valued at
between $6 billion and $10 billion, the businessman told state
television Rossiya 24 in April.  Mail.ru’s other technology and Internet investments in the
U.S. include  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  Chief Operating Officer
Verdi Israelian reiterated that those stakes may also be sold at
the right time and price.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  