-- Air China Prefers Bonds as Debt Beats Stock Sales: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-25T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/air-china-prefers-bonds-as-debt-beats-stock-sales-china-credit.html
Air China Ltd. (753)  has scrapped a
planned share sale and is preparing its first debt offering in
more than three years, capping a 10-month period in which bond
sales were almost 25 times greater than stock issuance.  The country’s biggest carrier by market value will offer 6
billion yuan ($961 million) of seven-year securities on Oct. 31,
according to a company filing. It last  sold  3 billion yuan  of
3.48 percent 2014 paper in March 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. China National Aviation Holding Co., the
parent of the carrier, also plans to sell 1 billion yuan of
three-year notes on Oct. 29.  Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s calls to expand the market drove a 64
percent increase in bond sales to 3.18 trillion yuan, while
equity issuance dropped 55 percent to 129 billion yuan as the
world’s second-largest economy slowed. Yields on top-rated
companies’ 10-year notes fell 12 basis points to 5.06 percent
this year, as the country’s benchmark stock  index  shed 4.5
percent. They dropped 47 basis points to 1.62 percent in the
U.S., according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “Air China’s moves show a trend that the  bond market  has
become increasingly popular for fundraising over the equity
market,” Zhou Meng, a Shanghai-based analyst at Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co., said in a phone interview on Oct. 24.
“It’s a good time for airlines, shipping companies and rail
builders to tap the bond market as borrowing costs are lower.”  Encouraging Bonds  Air China announced the planned sale two days after
scrapping a planned private stock offering. It has also yet to
complete a 1.05 billion yuan share sale to its state-owned
parent and the timing for a second non-public equity offering
isn’t “ripe at the moment,” it said in a filing to the
 Shanghai  stock exchange on Oct. 22. The Beijing-based carrier
will use proceeds from the notes to repay bank loans and
replenish working capital, according to separate company
filings.  “The bond market has demand as the risk appetite is pretty
low now with stocks falling,” said  Li Jun , a strategist at
Central China Securities Co. in Shanghai. “On top of that, the
central government has encouraged bond sales to increase the
proportion of direct financing.”  Equity sales in China have shrunk this year as the
benchmark Shanghai Composite Index is heading for a third-
straight annual loss.  Shares Slide  Shares of Air China have slumped 20 percent this year in
Shanghai as high fuel prices have added to investor concerns.  The carrier won’t resume discussions on the planned share
sale within three months, it said the Oct. 22 filing, without
identifying the size or potential buyers. Air China company
secretary Rao Xinyu declined to comment on why it canceled the
plan in an e-mailed response.  The yield on Air  China ’s Sept. 2015 notes has climbed 17
basis points this month to 6.44 percent, compared with the
benchmark government bond yield’s 9 basis-point increase to 3.55
percent.  Five-year credit-default swaps protecting sovereign notes
fell 1 basis point to 73 on Oct. 24, according to data provider
CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities if an issuer fails to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Air China’s long-term debt is  1.3 times  its equity, higher
than an average for its peers of 0.92 times, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The carrier plans to spend 57.1 billion
yuan in the three years through 2014 on aircraft, construction
of bases and pilot training, it said in the prospectus posted on
China.money.cn on Oct. 24.  Transportation Debt  Companies in China’s transportation sector have opted to
tap the bond market because it is difficult to attract equity
investors as earnings drop on the economic slowdown, Shenyin &
Wanguo’s Zhou said. China Shipping Development Co., a unit of
the nation’s second-largest shipper, sold 2.5 billion yuan of
bonds in August.  Guo Shuqing , the head of the China Securities Regulatory
Commission, has taken steps including setting up an office to
study new products and unveiling a plan to allow small and
medium-sized companies to sell lower-rated debt.  “Bond fundraising will continue to exceed stock sales next
year because developing the bond market is on top of the agenda
of the CSRC,” Chen Li, head of China equity research at UBS AG,
said in an interview in Shanghai on Oct. 24.  Chinese airlines had sharp drops in first-half earnings on
a slowing growth in  travel demand , higher fuel costs and
currency fluctuation. Air China, China Southern Airlines Co. and
China Eastern Airlines Corp., the nation’s top three airlines,
all said profit declined by more than 65 percent in the six
months to June.  Yuan Rises  All three, which are due to announce third-quarter results
by month-end, may see business “stabilizing” as negative
factors such as currency fluctuation are dissipating, according
to Davin Chunpong Wu, a transportation analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG in  Hong Kong .  The  yuan  appreciated 1.1 percent against the greenback in
the third quarter, after a 0.93 percent drop in the first half,
according to China Foreign Exchange System. The currency climbed
to a 19-year high yesterday, strengthening 0.10 percent to close
at 6.2417 in Shanghai, according to China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. Airlines are substantial dollar borrowers and a stronger
yuan can help pare the repatriated value of dollar-denominated
debts built up from buying planes and fuel overseas.  “The worst for the industry is over,” Wu said in a phone
interview in Hong Kong yesterday. “If Air China had planned to
sell shares to investors, rather than to its parent company, it
wouldn’t need to offer huge discounts for the sake of raising
money. With bond issuance, share price volatility isn’t a
factor.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  