-- Airbus Eyes Lead in Single-Aisle Market With Improved A320 Jet
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-10-25T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/airbus-eyes-lead-in-single-aisle-market-with-improved-a320-jet.html
Airbus SAS, which has split the
market for single-aisle planes with  Boeing Co. (BA)  over the last
decade, aims to capture 60 percent of sales for future single-
aisle planes with new engines, the sales chief said.  The European company has benefited from being first mover
on more efficient engines for its single-aisle series, called
the A320neo, Chief Operating Officer John Leahy said today in
Paris. That has given Toulouse, France-based Airbus a two-thirds
share, and Leahy expects to keep about 60 percent over the
longer term.  Airbus is seeking to appeal to a broader range of customers
with its bestelling model, with production sites in  Europe ,
 China  and one planned in Mobile,  Alabama  that aims to pull in
more U.S. carriers. Airbus now only has a 20 percent share for
single-aisle, or narrow-body planes in the U.S., the world’s
biggest aircraft market.  “It’s not just psychological value,” Leahy said of the
planned factory. For airline chiefs who choose Airbus over
Boeing in future, “it helps them to say their plane just came
from Mobile, Alabama,” he said in comments to the French
American Foundation in Paris today.  Airbus has already scored in Boeing’s backyard.  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s
American Airlines has broken with a practice to buy only Boeing
planes and ordered A320neos. Boeing has responded with a more
fuel-efficient engines on its 737s, the world’s most widely
flown aircraft. Leahy said past sales campaigns in the U.S.
often showed a preference to buy a local product.  “If this just wipes out that last phone call to  Seattle ,”
where Boeing’s commercial aircraft business is based. “It
accomplishes a lot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  