-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Advance on Inflow Speculation; Bonds Fall
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-10-25T08:19:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/taiwan-dollar-forwards-advance-on-speculation-of-more-inflows.html
Taiwan dollar  forwards advanced the
most in a week after the  Federal Reserve  said it would press on
with asset purchases, stoking speculation that more funds will
flow into emerging markets.  Government bonds  fell.  The  U.S. economy  is still growing modestly, unemployment
remains elevated and $40 billion in monthly purchases of
mortgage-backed securities will be maintained, the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said yesterday at the conclusion of a two-day
meeting in Washington. Gains in the Taiwan dollar may be curbed
by intervention from the central bank, said Suan Teck Kin, an
economist at  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)   “The appreciation pressure for the Taiwan dollar is still
there, partly stemming from all the quantitative easing,” said
Suan, who is based in Singapore. “The central bank will try to
resist that kind of pressure, at least make it orderly.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.3 percent to
NT$29.160 as of 4:15 p.m. in Taipei, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The contracts are at a 0.4 percent premium to the
spot rate.  In the  spot market , the Taiwan dollar strengthened 0.2
percent to close at NT$29.280 against its U.S. counterpart, data
from Taipei Forex Inc. showed. The currency was up 0.4 percent
before paring its gain in the last minute of trading. One-month
implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to
price options, declined one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 3.54 percent.  Taiwan’s central bank has intervened to stem advances in
the currency in the final minutes of trading on most days in the
past five months, according to traders who asked not to be
identified. Central banks intervene in currency markets by
arranging purchases or sales of foreign exchange.  Intervention Risk  Industrial production rose 3 percent in September from a
year earlier, the Ministry of Economic Affairs in Taipei
reported on Oct. 23, missing the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey for a 6.5 percent gain.  “The central bank won’t tolerate a strong currency at this
point,” Suan said. “Industrial output was worse than
expected.”  The yield on the government’s 2 percent bonds due July 2017
rose one basis point to 0.88 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market. The  overnight interbank lending  rate was
little changed at 0.385 percent, a weighted average compiled by
the Taiwan Interbank Money Center shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  