-- AllianceBernstein Rises Most in 14 Months on Earnings
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-10-25T20:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/alliancebernstein-rises-most-in-14-months-on-earnings.html
AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB)  rose
the most in eight months after earnings and revenue at the New
York-based asset manager exceeded analysts’ estimates and
redemptions slowed.  AllianceBernstein rose 7.2 percent to close at $16.69 in
 New York  trading after reporting yesterday that revenue
increased 10 percent in the third quarter to $708 million and
adjusted earnings per share gained 20 percent to 36 cents.
Results beat estimates for $659 million in sales and profit of
27 cents a share in a Bloomberg survey, prompting analysts at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods and Sandler O’Neill to upgrade the
stock.  “This report gives us confidence that flow momentum is
building and that they will take in money starting this
quarter,”  Michael Kim , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP in New York, said in a telephone interview, after he
raised the stock to buy from hold.  AllianceBernstein has been plagued by redemptions since the
financial crisis as customers pulled about $200 billion from its
equity products since the end of 2008. This year the firm has
cut the pace of withdrawals as it attracted money from retail
investors, especially into bond funds sold outside the U.S.  Customers withdrew $4.4 billion in the quarter ended Sept.
30, down from $15.4 billion a year earlier. AllianceBernstein
said it won $5 billion in deposits from individual investors
during the quarter.  AllianceBernstein has risen 28 percent this year compared
with an 18 percent increase for the 20-member  Standard & Poor’s
index of asset managers and custody  banks.  Luxembourg Fund  Its largest mutual fund, the Luxembourg-based $23.7 billion
 AllianceBernstein Global High Yield Portfolio (ACGHYAT) , attracted more
than $1 billion in each of the first two quarters of 2012,
according to data from Strategic Insight, a New York-based
research firm. The fund beat 80 percent of rivals over five
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company had “improved flows into fixed income and
‘other’ products, particularly in the retail channel, which we
believe will be instrumental in garnering positive flows
again,” Robert Lee at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc. said in a
note to clients yesterday. He raised his recommendation to
outperform from market-perform.  AllianceBernstein in December 2008 named  Peter Kraus , a
former executive at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., chief executive
officer. In June, Kraus’s contract was extended five years
through January 2019, even though the company’s shares fell and
redemptions continued during his leadership.  ‘Unprecedented Challenges’  Pete Smith, a member of AllianceBernstein’s compensation
committee, said in June that Kraus had been effective at guiding
the firm “through a period of unprecedented challenges since
the financial crisis.”  The company attributed its better performance in the third
quarter to higher distribution fees from outside the U.S. and
progress in cutting its real-estate costs. AllianceBernstein
said in August it would save $38 million to $43 million a year
by cutting back on the real estate it occupies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  