-- AMD Faces Looming Cash Crunch Amid Quest for New Markets
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-10-25T20:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/amd-faces-looming-cash-crunch-amid-quest-for-new-markets-tech.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the
long-struggling competitor of giant rival Intel Corp., is facing
yet another crisis amid a shifting technology landscape and
declining demand for personal computers.  Chief Executive Officer Rory Read is firing workers to pare
expenses as the chipmaker’s sales slide. Still, he can’t cut
costs fast enough to head off his next looming challenge:
shrinking cash reserves. Cash declined to $1.5 billion in the
third quarter, shedding $279 million from the previous period.  If the trend continues, cash levels may drop to $600
million by this time next year, according to an estimate by
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. That compares with the $1.1 billion
in reserves the company said it requires, and a quarterly
operating expense target of $450 million. AMD has $2.04 billion
of debt.  “I’d never been worried about cash flow; I am now
worried,” said Stacy Rasgon, an analyst at Bernstein.  Read said the decline of the PC market -- which provides 85
percent of AMD’s sales -- happened faster than he expected and
left him with less time to remake the company. As AMD
concentrates on developing products for new markets, Rasgon,
Chris Caso at Susquehanna International Group and Craig Berger
at FBR Capital Markets are among analysts who say they’re
concerned AMD might run out of money before any transformation
can happen.  Rasgon, who cut his rating on the stock to market perform
earlier this month, said a lack of compelling new products from
AMD could leave the Sunnyvale, California-based company with as
little as $300 million by the end of next year, he said.  Market Squeeze  Amid a squeeze by the weak economy and changing consumer
tastes, the global PC market will contract by 1.2 percent to
348.7 million units this year, according to  IHS ISuppli . That
would be the first annual decline since 2001.  As the market shrinks, AMD’s spot as the alternative to
 Intel (INTC)  in PC processors is also being threatened by the entrance
of companies such as  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  At the same
time, computer makers looking to move into tablets -- responding
to the success of Apple Inc.’s iPad -- may turn away from AMD,
according to Pat Becker Jr., a fund manager at Becker Capital
Management in  Portland ,  Oregon .  “You have to wonder if this is it for AMD,” Becker said.
“Are they done?”  Chasing Sales  The company’s cash flow became a focus for analysts during
its third-quarter earnings call on Oct. 18, provoking analysts
such as Longbow Research LLC’s Joanne Feeney to ask how AMD
would simultaneously reduce expenses and speed up the
introduction of new products.  Read said he plans to get more sales from markets such as
industrial equipment, computer games and communications by
adapting existing computer designs to fit in new devices with a
minimum of research and design effort.  A failure to deliver that new revenue might leave AMD
needing to make further cuts, which in turn would damage its
ability to produce competitive designs, Susquehanna’s Caso said.  AMD interim Chief Financial Officer Devinder Kumar, who
stepped in last month after the resignation of Thomas Seifert,
said that once AMD completes its operating-expense cuts, cash
reserves of $700 million to $800 million will be sufficient. In
addition, AMD is negotiating with a chip supplier,
Globalfoundries Inc., to reduce purchase commitments and
therefore expenses, he said.  “Those negotiations are going well,” Kumar said in an
interview. Much of the spending required to develop chips
capable of competing in new markets has already been done, he
said.  Lower Forecast  AMD stock, the worst performer on the  Philadelphia
Semiconductor Index (SOX)  this year with a decline of 61 percent,
advanced 1.9 percent to $2.12 at the close in New York.  The second-largest maker of PC processors, behind Intel,
last week forecast sales that will again miss analysts’
estimates and said it will cut 15 percent of its staff, or about
1,770 jobs. It’s reported a loss in three of the past four
quarters.  “The fourth quarter will continue to be challenging and we
do not expect PC market conditions to improve for several
quarters,” Read, who took over in August 2011, told analysts on
the conference call.  Cash Burn  The company had already disclosed on Oct. 11 that third-
quarter sales fell short of its earlier predictions, leading
Standard & Poor’s to place the company’s BB- credit rating on
watch for a possible downgrade.  Credit default swaps on AMD debt, which rise as investor
confidence deteriorates, are trading at their highest level
since Nov. 11, 2009. Derivatives traders are now pricing in a
62.5 percent chance of AMD defaulting within five years, up from
51 percent on Oct. 17, according to a standard pricing model
maintained by data provider CMA. Contracts protecting the
company’s debt climbed to 18.5 percentage points upfront today,
up from 9.3 percentage points on Oct. 17.  The company’s  $500 million  of 7.75 percent notes due in
August 2020 fell to 82.09 cents on the dollar, to yield 11.27
percent, on Oct. 22, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
That’s the lowest level for the debt since it started trading in
January 2011.  New Technology  AMD is facing an even greater challenge than the one it has
fought against Intel since they were both founded in the late
1960s. PCs are under threat from tablets and smartphones that
are built on different chip technology.  “Unfortunately for AMD, the PC market moved away from it
faster than the new management moved to remake the company,”
Caso wrote in a research report.  Yet unlike Intel, which has more than $10 billion of cash
and tens of thousands of engineers to recast its products and
explore new markets, AMD has struggled to stockpile cash. Since
2001, the company has reported five annual losses that have
dwarfed the profit accrued over that period by more than $6
billion in aggregate.  In the past, PC makers such as Hewlett-Packard Co. and Dell
Inc. have built at least some machines with AMD’s chips, using
it to limit Intel’s ability to dictate prices. While AMD and
Intel chips were the only ones able to run Microsoft Corp.’s
dominant desktop Windows operating system, that is set to change
later this week, when Microsoft begins selling two new versions
of Windows, including one that will work on ARM Holding Plc’s
alternative technology.  Viable Product  Dell, Lenovo Group Ltd. and Asustek Computer Inc. are among
PC makers that have said they will use phone-chip technology to
build devices running Windows aimed at trying to pare the lead
of Apple in tablet computers -- and have committed to using new
low-power chips from Intel for that market.  AMD announced one product win on Oct. 22, saying  Japan ’s
Fujitsu Ltd. chose a new chip it calls Z-60 -- a combination of
a microprocessor and graphics unit -- for a new tablet.  Still, the company hasn’t yet produced a chip targeting the
tablet market that’s good enough to win significant business,
according to C.J. Muse, an analyst at Barclays Plc.  “It comes down to the inability to provide a viable
product,” said  Daniel Berenbaum , an analyst at MKM Partners
LLC. Computer makers are “less concerned about keeping AMD
alive and more concerned with keeping themselves alive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  