-- Apple Evokes Polonius With Shortest Earnings: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-10-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/apple-evokes-polonius-with-shortest-earnings-chart-of-the-day.html
When the world’s largest company
reports earnings today, there’s one thing investors can count
on:  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s press-release comments will be the shortest
they’ll have to read among the biggest U.S. firms.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows that Apple’s earnings releases
have averaged about 250 words of commentary over the past 10
quarters, compared with an average of more than 1,300 among the
rest of the 10 biggest companies by market value that regularly
provide remarks in their releases.  “There’s a Shakespearean phrase, `brevity is the soul of
wit,’ and I guess the question is whether brevity is the soul of
profitability as well,” Nicholas Colas, the New York-based
chief market strategist at ConvergEx Group, said in a phone
interview yesterday, referring to remarks by Polonius in
“Hamlet.” “Apple is known for being very spare in their
design and the sparseness carries over to everything else too.”  Apple has grown to become the largest company by market
value, worth more than $575 billion as of yesterday’s close,
through growing sales of its iPhone and iPad devices. Analysts
forecast the Cupertino, California-based company will report
fiscal fourth-quarter net income of $8.3 billion on sales of
$35.7 billion after the close of trading today.  AT&T Inc. (T) , the first carrier for the iPhone, had the
longest average commentary at about 1,900 words, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  were next with more
than 1,500 words each.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  was the closest to its
rival in brevity, averaging less than 500. The word counts
excluded tables, footnotes, conference-call announcements and
boilerplate disclaimers about forward-looking statements and
business risks.  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  was not included
in the list because the holding company does not always issue an
earnings press release. When it does issue a release, Buffett’s
firm usually doesn’t include commentary and instead tells
investors to read its quarterly reports to the Securities and
Exchange Commission, which contain lengthy discussions of its
businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  