-- Arizona’s Brewer Spends Super-PAC Cash for GOP Candidates
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-10-25T18:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/arizona-s-brewer-spends-super-pac-cash-for-gop-house-candidates.html
Arizona  Governor Jan Brewer’s super-
political action committee is wading into the state’s  U.S.
Senate  race and three competitive House races in an unusual move
to help Republicans and shape her state’s congressional
delegation.  “Jan PAC,” the committee formed last year by the governor
known for signing the state’s tough immigration law in 2010, has
spent almost $190,000 on brochures known as mailers supporting
two Republicans and opposing two Democrats, according to Federal
Election Commission filings. Three were sent this week.  The campaign spending -- which follows months in which the
committee’s main activity was buying copies of Brewer’s book,
“ Scorpions for Breakfast ” -- is unusual for sitting governors,
who generally stay out of federal races, said  David Wasserman ,
House editor for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report.  “She’s a much more political governor than most, and she
doesn’t shy away from fights in her state,” Wasserman said.
“She’s a partisan.”  That may make it harder for Brewer to work with the state’s
representatives in  Washington , said Luis Heredia, executive
director of the state  Democratic Party .  “The bigger issue is the relationship that a sitting
governor will have with members of the delegation,” Heredia
said, noting Brewer’s frequent skirmishes with the federal
government over immigration and other issues. “Her getting into
politics to this degree sends the wrong message -- especially
attacking what could be a member of Congress.”  Toss-Up  Jan PAC reported yesterday spending $99,999 on a mailer to
support six-term U.S. Representative Jeff Flake in his race for
the open Senate seat being vacated by Republican Senator  Jon
Kyl . Flake is facing Democrat Richard Carmona, who served as
U.S. Surgeon General under President  George W. Bush . Recent
polls show the race is too close to call.  The committee also spent $35,567 this week opposing a
former Democratic representative, Ann Kirkpatrick, in her bid to
return to the House from the redrawn 1st District in
northwestern Arizona. Cook Political Report rates her race
against former state Senator Jonathan Paton, a Republican, as a
toss-up.  Two Districts  Democrats have the edge in two other districts where
Brewer’s PAC sponsored mailers, according to the Cook analysis.
Her committee reported spending $23,257 on Oct. 12 to fund a
brochure opposing former state Senator Kyrsten Sinema, a
Democrat, in her bid for a new House seat added during
redistricting to reflect Arizona’s population growth. Sinema, a
critic of the governor in the Legislature, faces Republican
Vernon Parker in the district that includes the main campus of
 Arizona State University  in Tempe.  Brewer’s PAC also spent $29,651 this week on a mailer to
support the Republican in the Tucson district formerly
represented by Democratic Congresswoman  Gabrielle Giffords , who
resigned earlier this year to recover from a gunshot to the
head. That seat is currently held by former Giffords aide Ron Barber, a Democrat, who was also injured in the January 2011
shooting and won the post in a special election in August.
Barber faces Martha McSally, a retired Air Force colonel who was
the first woman fighter pilot to fly in combat.  Competitive Races  The Senate race is the first time a seat from the state has
been open since Kyl took office in 1995. The three House races
are the most competitive in the state and key to deciding which
party gets the majority of Arizona’s House delegation. Five of
eight seats are now held by Republicans, the reverse of 2008
when voters sent five Democrats to Congress. It will have nine
House seats this year.  Brewer and other Republicans opposed the new congressional
maps drawn by the state’s Independent Redistricting Committee
last year, saying it favored Democrats. Brewer tried to fire the
head of the commission, an independent. The state’s  Supreme
Court  overturned the move.  “She’s trying to do at the ballot box what she couldn’t do
in court,” Wasserman said, referring to the attempt to wrest
control of the redistricting process by firing the commission’s
chairwoman.  Wading In  Brewer may wade into other federal-level campaigns in
Arizona and also in other states, said Paul Senseman, a former
Brewer aide who serves as a volunteer spokesman for Jan PAC.  Senseman said the governor is looking for races where her
money or personal campaigning can help Republican candidates
around the country who share her perspective, Senseman said.  “She has voiced often her anger with any number of
failures at the federal level,” Senseman said. “Her belief is
that this election cycle is one of the most important we’ve seen
in modern U.S. history.”  Senseman said the governor’s level of participation in
elections isn’t unprecedented.  “Is it unique? Sure, this is a very uniquely popular
governor,” Senseman said. Her national stature has led to
requests for her to campaign with candidates across the country,
he said.  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said Oct. 17 that he’d
spend as much as $15 million to help moderate congressional
candidates and back state ballot measures to legalize same-sex
marriage, through a new super-political action committee called
Independence USA. He is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Signed Copy  Jan PAC’s  website  says it is dedicated to securing the
border with  Mexico , fighting President  Barack Obama ’s healthcare
overhaul, creating jobs and reducing the size of government.
Donors who give $100 or more get a signed copy of Brewer’s book.  By the end of last month, the committee had collected more
than $600,000 and spent $145,000, according to the election
commission. Donors include the National Football League’s
Arizona Cardinals, which gave $5,000 in June. Mark Dalton, the
Cardinals’ vice president of media relations, didn’t respond to
a telephone call and an e-mail requesting comment.  The largest donor is Willis Johnson, chairman of salvage
vehicle auction company  Copart Inc. (CPRT) , a Fairfield, California-
based company that auctions used and salvaged cars, who gave
$100,000. Foster Friess, founder of Friess Associates Inc. of
Jackson,  Wyoming , who helped finance the super-PAC that
supported  Rick Santorum  in the Republican presidential campaign,
gave $25,000.  Brewer, 68, who was first elected secretary of state in
2002. She became Arizona’s top official in 2009 when she
succeeded Governor  Janet Napolitano , a Democrat who resigned to
serve as U.S. Homeland Security Secretary. Re-elected in 2010,
Brewer is barred by  term limits  from running for governor in
2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  