-- Harmony Says Many Workers Return as Rivals Fire Strikers
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-10-25T05:26:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/harmony-says-many-workers-return-as-rivals-fire-strikers.html
Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  said  many
of its 5,400 striking workers returned to the Kusasalethu mine
in  South Africa  after rivals began dismissing almost four times
that number of miners after they stayed away from work in an
illegal pay dispute.  The workers returned by the deadline at 6 a.m. local time
after the company issued a final ultimatum at the mine near
Carletonville after they walked out on Oct. 2, said Marian van
der Walt, a company spokeswoman, in an interview today .  Kusasalethu has lost about 20 days’ production, which
represents almost 13,000 ounces of gold output, because of the
strike, Harmony,  Africa ’s third-largest producer of the metal,
said Oct. 23.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the world’s
third- and fourth-biggest producers, have begun steps to fire
more than 20,000 workers in South Africa as ultimatums on
unauthorized walkouts passed.  The dismissal process has started for 12,000 AngloGold
workers, the company said yesterday. Gold Fields said in a
statement yesterday that 7,000 out of 8,100 workers fired at its
KDC East mine are appealing against the company’s move.  AngloGold said it remains in dialog with employees over the
dismissals at its mines.  Platinum miner  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  has fired
12,000 people in a similar dispute.  Mining Accord  Gold producers represented by the Chamber of Mines expect
to sign an accord today with labor unions.  Negotiations broke down in talks at the chamber on Oct. 15
after gold producers offered to scrap entry-level wages, bump
workers up to the next band of pay and award other employees an
additional 1.5 percent to 2 percent wage increase. The companies
already agreed last year to raise salaries by 7.5 percent to 10
percent for 2012. South Africa’s annual inflation rate was 5.5
percent in September.  “We really want the workers to return,”  Lesiba Seshoka , a
spokesman for the  National Union of Mineworkers , the country’s
largest union, said in a phone interview yesterday. “We’re
talking to the workers and we’re quite hopeful that workers will
consider it favorably,” he said of the accord.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  