-- Arsenal Is Two Years Away From Financially Competing, CEO Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-10-25T15:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/arsenal-is-two-years-away-from-financially-competing-ceo-says.html
Arsenal is two years away from
competing financially with major soccer clubs as the London team
signs more valuable sponsorship contracts and the sport’s
European governing body starts to enforce financial rules, its
chief executive officer said.  Arsenal’s board met with supporters and shareholders today
with the club coming off two losses, sitting in ninth place in
 England ’s Premier League, 10 points behind crosstown rival
Chelsea at the top. Fans questioned the team’s spending plan,
which allowed captains Cesc Fabregas and  Robin van Persie  to
leave in the last two seasons.  The 13-time English champion signed agreements with
Emirates airline to sponsor its 60,000-seat stadium, which
opened in 2006, and the players’ jerseys. They allowed Arsenal
to keep debt down while building the new facility, and Chief
Executive Officer  Ivan Gazidis  said the club is ready to get
more lucrative terms to close the financial gap to  Manchester
United ,  Manchester City  and Barcelona.  “As a consequence of this ambitious transformation, in the
next two years Arsenal will have the financial resources to sit
and compete among the leading clubs in the world,” Gazidis said
at the club’s annual meeting. “That’s an extraordinary
achievement for our club.”  Arsenal lost 1-0 at Norwich in the Premier League five days
ago and was beaten 2-0 last night at home by  Germany ’s Schalke
in the  Champions League ,  Europe ’s elite club competition. While
the club has made the regional tournament each of the past 15
years, Chelsea became the first London winner last season. The
Gunners last won a trophy in 2005.  ‘Real Confidence’  “We are now in a position to look forward with real
confidence in our position in the new emerging landscape of the
game,” Gazidis said. “I have no doubt that we can and will
return the club to winning trophies and driving it forward to
new heights.”  The team has attempted to increase its non-match day
revenue by touring  Asia  and expanding its commercial contract
department to allow it to find non-U.K. backers, Gazidis said.  Last month, Arsenal Holdings Plc said its fiscal full-year
profit doubled as the team benefited from the 2011 sales of
Fabregas to Barcelona and midfielder Samir Nasri to Manchester
City.  Net income rose to 29.6 million pounds ($48 million), or
475 pounds a share, in the year ended May 31, from 12.6 million
pounds, or 203 pounds. The club made 26 million pounds from
selling players, compared with a loss of 14.6 million in the
year-earlier period.  It also had 153.6 million pounds in cash, down slightly
from the year-earlier period, and net debt of 98.9 million.  Captain’s Sale  In response to a supporter’s question, Chairman Peter Hill- Wood said the team had sold  Van Persie  to Manchester United for
“footballing reasons,” not to make a profit. The Dutchman was
entering the final year of his contract and said he wouldn’t
resign with the Gunners.  “When we lose a great player like Robin van Persie, it’s
not because we want to lose Robin van Persie, and certainly not
because we want to make a profit on a transfer fee,” Gazidis
said. “We do have to be responsible in the type of difficult
decisions we make to make sure we’re not plunging our football
club into financial difficulty.”  Majority shareholder  Stan Kroenke , the American owner of
the  National Football League ’s St.  Louis Rams  and other U.S.
sports franchises, said he would be willing to meet with Arsenal
supporters to discuss the club.  ‘Optimistic Skepticism’  Gazidis said Arsenal was well-positioned to take advantage
of new spending rules being introduced next year by European
soccer’s governing body UEFA and its president  Michel Platini .  UEFA’s so-called Financial Fair Play regulations will aim
to punish clubs that spend beyond their means from 2014. English
soccer’s second-tier Championship division has also introduced
fiscal controls, and as many as 17 Premier League clubs are in
favor of domestic rules addressing spending.  “We have taken the approach of optimistic skepticism,”
Gazidis said. “It’s not being driven by Michel Platini on high
as a way to punish English clubs. It really is being driven by
the clubs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  