-- Artemis Owes $2.17 Billion in Damages, California Says
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-10-25T22:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/artemis-owes-2-17-billion-in-damages-california-says.html
A lawyer for  Francois Pinault ’s
Artemis SA holding company said the claim by the  California 
insurance commissioner that the company should be held liable
for $2.17 billion in damages was a “fantasy.”  “It’s not a damage theory, it’s a fantasy,” Robert
Weigel, Artemis’s lawyer, told a federal jury in Los Angeles
today during his closing statement. “It is speculation.”  The jury will have to determine whether then-Insurance
Commissioner John Garamendi “probably” would have accepted a
bid in 1991 from an association of insurance guaranty companies
for the assets of an insolvent California life insurance company
had he known about a “conspiracy to defraud” by a group of
French banks and insurers that bought the assets.  Weigel told the jurors that Garamendi publicly stated at
the time that it would have been irresponsible to accept a bid
that would have kept the junk-bond portfolio, which caused the
insurer to collapse in the first place, in the rehabilitated
company as was intended in the bid by the National Organization
of Life and Health Insurance Guaranty Associations, or NOLHGA.  “Mr. Garamendi would never have doubled down on the junk-
bond market,” Weigel said.  2005 Trial  The case, which first went to trial in 2005, dates back to
the 1991 sale of failed Executive Life Insurance Co. and its
junk-bond portfolio to a unit of Credit Lyonnais SA and a group
of French and Swiss companies organized and secretly backed by
the French bank to avoid regulatory restrictions.  Artemis, the company through which Pinault controls  PPR (PP)  and
its luxury goods brands including Gucci and  Yves Saint Laurent ,
acquired part of the junk-bond portfolio in 1992 and a
controlling stake in the rehabilitated insurance company. The
company is the only one of the French defendants that hasn’t
settled with the insurance commissioner.  The California insurance commissioner claims that Artemis
is liable for all the damages caused by the French bank and
insurers because it joined the conspiracy in 1992. The
commissioner claims the profits the French investors made on the
 junk bonds  should have gone to the policyholders.  The jury at the 2005 trial concluded Artemis had
participated in the fraud against California insurance
regulators by Altus and the MAAF Assurances SA group. The jury
didn’t award any compensatory damages to the California
insurance commissioner. A federal appeals court sent the case
back for a retrial on a single theory of damages that hadn’t
gone to the first jury.  ‘Wanton Violation’  “Today is the opportunity to go back in time and make
things right,” Arthur Shartsis, a lawyer for the current
insurance commissioner,  Dave Jones , said during his closing
argument today. “We had a wanton violation of the law.”  California is seeking as much as $4.33 billion in lost
profit and interest that the French buyers made from the sale of
the junk-bond portfolio. The jury will decide whether Artemis
should pay interest on any damages and U.S. District Judge Gary Klausner will calculate the amount of interest, Shartsis told
the jurors.  Weigel told the jurors that the commissioner’s theory
assumes that the insurance company created under the NOLHGA
rehabilitation plan would have made the exact same trades, at
the exact same time for the exact same amounts in the junk-bond
market.  “It’s easy to say now what you would have done 20 years
ago,” Weigel said. “Mr. Pinault put his entire life savings in
the bonds -- he took a huge risk.”  The case is Garamendi v. Altus Finance SA, 99-02829, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 