-- U.S. Stock Futures Drop on Apple as Treasuries Retreat
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h ,   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-10-25T21:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/asian-equities-snap-four-day-losing-streak-gasoline-rebounds.html
U.S. stock-index futures retreated
after  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s earnings and forecast trailed analyst
estimates. Treasuries fell for a second day as an auction of $29
billion in seven-year notes drew the weakest demand since 2009.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2
percent to 1,405.6 at 5:41 p.m. in  New York  after the gauge
climbed 0.3 percent in the regular session. Ten-year Treasury
yields climbed four basis points to 1.83 percent. The yen
weakened against all 16 major peers on speculation  Japan  will
add stimulus. The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials increased
0.1 percent as gasoline halted its longest slump on record.  “Apple is a real market mover,”  Richard Sichel , who
oversees $1.8 billion as chief investment officer at
Philadelphia Trust Co., said in a phone interview. “Investors
have been so much earnings-driven that any disappointment will
be reflected in the overall market.”  Apple, the world’s largest company by market value, dropped
as much as 4 percent in extended trading, and was down 0.5
percent at 5:41 p.m. in New York. The company forecast profit
and revenue that fell short of predictions for the crucial
holiday quarter as costs rose and customers held off on iPad
purchases before the release of a new model.  Amazon.com Inc. slid 1.5 percent after the market close as
the biggest online retailer’s revenue missed estimates.  P&G Rallies  Among U.S. stocks, energy, health-care and consumer-staples
companies led gains during regular trading as the S&P 500
snapped a two-day decline.  Procter & Gamble Co ., Pfizer Inc. and
Chevron Corp. rose the most in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .
P&G, the world’s largest consumer-products maker, rallied 2.9
percent after reporting first-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates as it slowed market-share losses and reduced
manufacturing costs.  An S&P index of 11  homebuilders  slid 1.7 percent after a
National Association of Realtors report showed growth in
existing home sales trailed economists’ forecasts, undermining
optimism the housing market was improving. A Commerce Department
report said orders for business equipment such as computers and
communications gear stalled in September, signaling a slowdown
in investment that may curb economic growth.  “The market is trying to digest a lot of reports,” said
 Walter Todd , who oversees about $940 million as chief investment
officer of Greenwood Capital in Greenwood. “For this earnings
season, while expectations were fairly low, certain names are
turning out to be worse than expected.”  Best Buy  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. tumbled 11 percent as the
largest U.S. iron-ore producer reported third-quarter results
that missed analysts’ estimates, while Best Buy Co. slumped 10
percent after saying profit will be “significantly” below last
year’s results.  Another economic report today showed U.S. jobless claims
decreased by 23,000 to 369,000 in the week ended Oct. 20 from a
revised 392,000 the prior period, the Labor Department reported.
The median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a drop in claims to 370,000.  Investors are flocking to the options market at an
unprecedented rate to place bets on  S&P 500  volatility, a sign
they see risks increasing after the calmest election year in two
decades.  Outstanding contracts tied to the Chicago Board Options
Exchange Volatility Index reached 9.01 million on Oct. 16, the
highest level ever, according to data on open interest compiled
by Bloomberg. Calls that pay should the VIX increase have almost
tripled this year to 4.38 million, while puts climbed 52 percent
to 2.14 million, the data show.  Election Year  Traders are snapping up VIX options after the gauge, which
moves in the opposite direction of the S&P 500 about 80 percent
of the time, lost 22 percent in 2012 through yesterday. That’s
the largest annual drop for any election year since it was
created in 1990, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
VIX has climbed 22 percent since Oct. 18 as the equity gauge
retreated 3.3 percent.  Treasuries  extended losses  as the auction’s bid-to-cover
ratio, which gauges demand by comparing total bids with the
amount of securities offered, was 2.56, the least since May
2009. Benchmark notes dropped earlier after the  Federal Open
Market Committee  ended a policy meeting yesterday without saying
whether it will continue with Treasury purchases after the
expiration of its so-called Operation Twist in December.  ‘Cheapened Up’  “The securities cheapened up coming into the sale, and
there is still a lot of uncertainty,” said  William O’Donnell ,
head U.S. government bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , one of
21 primary dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve .  Yields on existing seven-year securities increased five
basis points to 1.26 percent and touched 1.28 percent, the
highest since August. Two-year note yields added two basis
points to 0.31 percent and 30-year rates climbed three basis
points to 2.98 percent.  U.S. Treasuries  pared losses before the auction as  Fitch
Ratings  reiterated that its negative outlook on the U.S.’s AAA
credit ranking is unlikely to change before late 2013 as it
waits to assess any deficit-reduction plans following this
year’s elections. Fitch referred questions about U.S. downgrade
speculation to its July statement, Brian Bertsch, a spokesman
for the ratings firm, said in an e-mail to  Bloomberg News .  The yen slid to its weakest level in four months against
the dollar, depreciating 0.7 percent to 80.30 per dollar. It
dropped 0.4 percent against the euro. The 17-nation European
currency slipped 0.3 percent to $1.2939 and weakened against 13
of 16 major peers.  European Markets  About three shares gained for every two that declined in
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. BASF SE increased 0.8 percent after
the world’s biggest chemical maker reiterated full-year goals
for earnings and sales to gain. Unilever NV, the second-largest
consumer-goods company, jumped 2.6 percent after third-quarter
revenue grew, helped by sales in  emerging markets . Logitech
International SA sank 16 percent after the biggest maker of
computer mice forecast lower revenue and operating profit in
their second half than a year earlier.  German 10-year bunds fell, pushing the yield three basis
points higher to 1.58 percent, while credit-default swaps
dropped for a fifth day, sliding to the lowest since March 2010.  The pound strengthened against 15 of 16 major peers,
gaining 1.1 percent against the yen. Britain exited a double-dip
recession in the third quarter with the strongest growth in five
years as Olympic ticket sales and a surge in services helped
boost the rebound. Britain reported economic growth of 1 percent
in the third quarter from the second, the first Group of Seven
nation to release the data.  Emerging Markets  The  yuan  added 0.1 percent to 6.2417 versus the dollar,
according to China Foreign Exchange Trade System, the strongest
since the government unified the official and market exchange
rates at the end of 1993.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index rose 0.5 percent as
Brazil’s Bovespa jumped 1.2 percent, India’s Sensex increased
0.3 percent and South Korea Kospi added 0.6 percent. The
Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.7 percent as a leading indicator
for  China’s economy  rose at a slower pace in September. Taiwan’s
Taiex Index dropped 0.7 percent while Russia’s Micex Index
slipped 0.4 percent.  Silver, gasoline and heating oil led gains in 10 of 24
commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI, while nickel, corn and
wheat fell the most. Gasoline rose 2.8 percent on concern that
Hurricane Sandy may threaten East Coast refineries and delay
imports from Europe. Gasoline rebounded after tumbling 12
percent in the previous 10 days, the longest losing streak since
trading began on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  in 1986.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  