-- AstraZeneca Profit Beats Estimates; Forecast Unchanged
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-10-25T16:02:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/astrazeneca-profit-beats-estimates-forecast-unchanged.html
AstraZeneca Plc’s (AZN)  third-quarter
profit fell less than analysts estimated and the company
maintained its forecast for the year as a buyback program
reduced shares outstanding.  Profit excluding restructuring costs and certain other
items declined to $2.6 billion from $3.18 billion, the London-
based company said today in a statement. On that basis, earnings
per share fell to $1.51 from $1.71 a year earlier, beating the
$1.45 a share average  estimate  of 20 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  The U.K.’s second-biggest drugmaker has been scouting
licensing deals and small to mid-sized acquisitions to bolster
its pipeline amid development setbacks and patent expiries on
its best-selling medicines. Pascal Soriot, chief executive
officer since the start of this month, suspended the company’s
share buyback program on his first day on the job as AstraZeneca
reviews its strategy.  “The company’s financial performance in 2012 largely
reflects the ongoing impact from the loss of exclusivity for
several brands in key markets, as well as the challenges that
confront the pharmaceutical industry as a whole,” Soriot said
in the statement.  Forecast Maintained  The drugmaker confirmed its forecast for profit excluding
some items this year of $6 to $6.30 a share. The company raised
its forecast Aug. 13 to reflect an agreement with  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
for rights to over-the-counter sales of Nexium which includes an
upfront payment of $250 million.  Sales, which have been hurt by increased competition from
generic medicines and government measures to reduce drug prices,
fell 19 percent to $6.68 billion, compared with the $6.74
billion average estimate of 24 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Drugs that account for more than 40 percent of sales will
lose patent protection by the end of 2014. AstraZeneca’s second-
best-selling drug, Seroquel for schizophrenia, lost U.S. patent
protection in March, while the patent on Nexium for ulcers, the
third-biggest seller, expires in the U.S. in 2014. The two
generated $10.3 billion in sales last year.  Sales of Seroquel IR plunged 83 percent at constant
exchange rates in the quarter to $169 million. Nexium, which
already faces generic competition in Europe and  Canada , fell 6
percent to $995 million and cancer treatment Arimidex dropped 22
percent to $130 million. Sales of its blockbuster cholesterol
drug Crestor, which has faced increased competition from a copy
of Pfizer Inc.’s Lipitor, were down 3 percent from a year ago at
$1.54 billion.  Blood-Thinner  Sales of blood-thinner Brilique, sold as Brilinta in the
U.S., rose to $24 million during the quarter after the drugmaker
made gains in Germany and the U.S.  AstraZeneca is undergoing its annual strategy review and
will announce initial results when it reports 2012 earnings. The
company also will provide a forecast for 2013 at that time.  The stock rose 0.4 percent to 2,896.5 pence at the close of
trading in  London . The stock has returned more than 3 percent
including reinvested dividends so far this year,  compared with  a
15 percent return for the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   It’s “still business as usual,” Elmar Kraus, an analyst
with DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt, said in an interview. “We’re
waiting to see what Pascal will do. The current operating
performance should already be priced in.”  Ardea Takeover  The purchase of  Ardea Biosciences Inc. (RDEA)  for $1.1 billion in
April was the first acquisition greater than $1 billion since
AstraZeneca paid $14.7 billion for MedImmune Inc. in 2007. The
company has made a series of licensing deals and said July 1 it
would pay  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  $3.4 billion to co-develop
the diabetes drugs of Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc., which Bristol
is acquiring for $5.3 billion.  To cut costs, the company is looking to outsource some drug
development. AstraZeneca said last week it signed a research
deal with Beijing-based Pharmaron and a contract with  Charles
River Laboratories International Inc. (CRL)  for regulatory safety
assessments of early stage experimental drugs.  The drugmaker has repurchased $2.3 billion of stock this
year, compared with an initial target of $4.5 billion, the U.K.
company reiterated today. The decision to stop repurchasing
shares gives the drugmaker more flexibility to undertake a big
acquisition, Brian Bourdot, an analyst at Barclays Plc’s
investment-banking, has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in  Frankfurt  at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  