-- Austerity Alone Scorned as Tusk Rates Below Czech: Poland Credit
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-10-25T09:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/austerity-alone-scorned-as-tusk-rates-below-czech-poland-credit.html
For the first time ever,  Poland ’s
borrowing costs in euros fell below the Czech Republic’s as
investors favor Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s focus on preserving
growth over strict austerity measures.  Yields on Poland’s 10-year euro bonds fell below those on
similar Czech notes for the first time on record on Oct. 15,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield was one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, below the Czech counterpart
today, compared with a premium of 47 basis points two months
ago. Polish gross domestic product expanded 2.3 percent from
April to June, while the higher-rated Czech economy has
contracted since the last quarter of 2011.  Six weeks ago, Tusk’s government relaxed plans to cut the
budget deficit this year and next to allow more spending to
stimulate the economy. Czech Premier Petr Necas meanwhile is
struggling to push through tax increases designed to cut the
deficit as a party revolt threatens to undermine him.  “What the markets seem to care about these days is
growth,”  Mateusz Szczurek , ING Groep NV’s chief economist for
central and eastern  Europe , said by phone on Oct. 23. “As long
as you have growth, and you don’t do anything really erratic,
then the level of deficit has little impact on bond yields.”  Relaxing Austerity  Polish local currency bonds of one year or longer have
returned 18 percent in euro terms this year, compared with a 14
percent advance by Czech koruna bonds and an 9 percent average
from euro-area  government bonds , indexes from the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg show.  Tusk is relaxing  austerity  after the EU’s largest post-
communist economy grew at the slowest pace in almost three years
in the second quarter. The government raised its 2012 target to
3.5 percent of GDP, from 3 percent, and its 2013 target to 3
percent, from 2.2 percent. Tusk already cut the gap from 5
percent in 2011 and a record 7.8 percent in 2010.  “The priority is to maintain economic growth,” Tusk said
in a speech in parliament on Oct. 12. “We should be determined
to maintain this positive growth rate, even at a lower level
than in the recent years, regardless of the cost.”  In the  Czech Republic , Poland’s southern neighbor and the
second-largest economy in the eastern EU, the government
estimates the  fiscal gap  at 3.2 percent of GDP this year,
compared with the initial target of 3.5 percent.  Lost Majority  Necas, who lost his parliamentary majority in April amid
personnel and budget rows, credits previous austerity measures
with helping reduce domestic bond yields.  The country must meet its goal of cutting the deficit below
3 percent next year to maintain “credible” fiscal policy,”
Necas said on Sept. 20. Previous tax increases have sapped
household spending and helped the economy  shrink  for three
consecutive quarters, counted from the previous three months.  Necas has failed to win backing from his lawmakers for a
package of measures that include more increases in sales taxes
and a new  tax rate  for higher earners. He has staked the
government’s survival on the bill by tying its approval to a
confidence vote, which is expected as early as next week.  While yields on Polish 10-year zloty bonds have fallen 1.4
percentage points this year to 4.49 percent today, the
equivalent Czech yields in koruna decreased 1.44 percentage
points to 2.15 percent, helped by record-low  interest rates  from
 Prague ’s policy makers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Investment Plan  Tusk announced a 300 billion-zloty ($95 billion) investment
plan on Oct. 12 to create jobs and protect economic growth,
while keeping Poland on the path of decreasing budget deficits.  “The Polish government has recently scaled back planned
fiscal consolidation,” Danske Bank AS  emerging markets  analysts
wrote in a note on Oct. 15. “This is hardly positive from an
investor perspective, but in our view it is not jeopardizing
fiscal sustainability.”  Poland is rated A2 by Moody’s Investors Service, the fifth-
lowest investment grade and one below the Czech Republic.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Polish  dollar-
denominated bonds  rather than U.S. Treasuries fell six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 116 at 11 a.m. in Warsaw,
indexes compiled by JPMorgan Chase & Co. show.  The spread between Poland’s 10-year zloty bond and German
bunds narrowed six basis points to 289 today, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The zloty strengthened 0.3 percent to 4.1445
against the euro, extending this year’s gains to 7.8 percent.  Debt Insurance  The cost to insure Polish debt against non-payment for five
years using  credit-default swaps  declined one basis point to 95,
while Czech swaps were one basis point higher at 81, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Poland’s swaps cost 88 basis points less than the average
for countries in eastern Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa 
included in the Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index, compared with
an average 78 basis-point gap in the first half of 2012.  Poland endured the world’s third-biggest austerity cuts in
2010 to 2012, which reduced the government’s structural deficit
by 4.1 percent of GDP, trailing only Greece and  Portugal ,
according to data from the  International Monetary Fund  examined
by Bloomberg Rankings. The Czech Republic is 20th on the list
with a 1.9 percent fiscal balance reduction in the period.  “Political troubles in the Czech Republic, usually seen as
the safe haven of central and eastern Europe, are transferring
this status to Poland at the moment,”  Felix Herrmann , an
analyst for emerging markets at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt , said in
e-mailed comments to  Bloomberg News  on Oct. 22.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  