-- AutoNation CEO Says Acquisitions Will Probably Resume
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-10-25T20:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/autonation-ceo-says-acquisitions-will-probably-resume.html
AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the largest U.S.
retailer of new vehicles, is negotiating to acquire several
dealerships and sees pricing disputes that have held up deals
this year being settled, its top executive said.  “We have quite a number of deals in discussion that we
would very much like to do,” Chief Executive Officer  Mike Jackson  said today by telephone after the company reported a
quarterly profit that missed analysts’ estimates by 1 cent a
share. “There’s still a gap between sellers and buyers that has
to be bridged.” Jackson declined to provide estimated revenue
of the outlets AutoNation is considering purchasing.  AutoNation has foregone  acquisitions  this year after
spending $64.2 million on purchases through last year’s first
nine months, the  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based company said
today in a statement. Third-quarter net income rose to $81.6
million from $70.7 million a year earlier. Profit from
continuing operations climbed to 66 cents a share, missing the
67-cent average  estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Acquisition activity by public U.S. auto retailers
including AutoNation plunged 55 percent in this year’s first
half to $103 million, according to  Presidio Automotive , an
advisory firm. Spending on acquisitions probably fell further
behind last year’s pace through the third quarter, Alan Haig, a
managing director for Presidio based in  Chapel Hill ,  North
Carolina , said last week in a telephone interview.  Pricing ‘Standoff’  There is a backlog of dealers looking to sell stores,
Jackson said, citing the decline in acquisitions during the U.S.
auto market’s plunge to a 27-year low in 2009. Spending on
acquisitions by public companies fell three straight years to
$16 million in 2009 from $812 million in 2006, according to
Presidio.  Pricing disagreements have caused slower activity this
year, Jackson said.  “It’s a little bit of a standoff, that, at a certain
point, I think the market will set to a common ground that makes
sense, and then probably there will be quite a number of
transactions,” he said. “I just can’t say when.”  AutoNation’s first priority on  capital spending  is existing
outlets, and the company approved projects in the last quarter
including a more than $100 million investment in renovating and
updating 36 of its  General Motors Co. (GM)  stores, said Michael Maroone, AutoNation’s chief operating officer.  The retailer is almost finished with even larger
expenditures for a similar program with its  Toyota Motor Corp. (TM) 
business and has completed investments in its Mercedes-Benz
stores, Maroone said in a telephone interview.  AutoNation also may consider introducing a dividend,
Michael Short, the company’s chief financial officer, said today
on a conference call.  AutoNation declined 4.7 percent to $45.76 at the close in
 New York . The shares have climbed 24 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  