-- Lazard Shares Rise After Profit Beat, Cost-Cutting Plan
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-10-25T14:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/lazard-profit-drops-33-as-merger-advisory-revenue-falls.html
Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  rose the most in more
than two months in  New York  trading after third-quarter profit
beat analysts’ estimates and the firm said it would implement a
cost-cutting plan.  The shares climbed 4.9 percent at 10:16 a.m. to $29.67, the
biggest intraday increase since Aug. 7, after the Hamilton,
Bermuda-based company said earnings were $35.4 million, or 26
cents a share. The  average estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg was for per-share profit of 21 cents.  Lazard, run by Chief Executive Officer Ken Jacobs, 54,
said it’s implementing a cost-cutting plan, targeting $125
million in annual savings, to boost operating leverage through
reductions in staff and non-compensation expenses. Most of the
cuts will come in the fourth quarter, and result in as much as
$130 million in implementation costs, Lazard said.  “We are focused on revenue growth, cost discipline and
effective use of capital to build  shareholder value ,” Jacobs
said in the statement.  About two-thirds of the savings will be booked in 2013, and
the full impact will be realized in 2014, according to the
statement.  About $85 million of the savings will come from headcount
reductions and $40 million from non-compensation expenses
including technology and travel, Chief Operating Officer Alex Stern said today in a telephone interview. Lazard is focusing
its cost-saving efforts on support functions and the financial-
advisory business, Stern said, adding that it’s too soon to
provide more details on the size of the job cuts.  Return Outlook  “What we’re targeting are  areas  where we’re overstaffed
relative to the foreseeable market opportunity,” Stern said.
“There are certain businesses and groups, investments in our
view, that are hard to justify given the compensation levels
required and the return outlook for those investments.”  Third-quarter financial-advisory revenue fell 13 percent to
$220 million from $253.6 million a year earlier, driven by a 14
percent decline in revenue from advising on M&A transactions,
which decreased to $171.4 million.  Asset-management revenue rose 1.7 percent to $220.3
million, including a 13 percent increase in incentive fees,
which were $10.6 million in the quarter.  Lazard earns about half of its revenue from asset
management. The firm is in a “sweet spot” of the business
because global and international equity make up almost  three-
quarters  of its assets under management,  Nelson Peltz , who runs
Trian Fund Management LP, said earlier this year. Peltz in June
disclosed a 5.1 percent stake in Lazard, making it the second-
biggest  shareholder .  Lazard set aside $278.1 million for compensation in the
third quarter, or 63 percent of operating revenue, compared with
$276.7 million, or 59 percent, a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  