-- Bally Settles IGT Suit Over Slot-Machine Technology
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-10-25T22:25:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/bally-settles-igt-suit-over-slot-machine-technology.html
Bally Technologies Inc. (BYI)  settled a
patent-infringement lawsuit brought by rival slot-machine maker
International Game Technology over technology used in U.S.
casinos.  Bally, based in Las Vegas, will get a license to IGT’s
technology for monitoring slot-machine use to help decide which
players deserve promotional bonuses, Mariya Barnes, an IGT
spokeswoman, said today in a statement. Other terms of the
settlement were confidential, she said.  Bally said today that sales in the quarter ended Sept. 30
rose 21 percent from a year earlier to $235.2 million, while
operating income jumped 43 percent to $53.6 million. Gambling
revenue at U.S. casinos climbed 6 percent to $23.8 billion
through August, the American Gaming Association said this month.  Delaware, Indiana,  Missouri  and  New Jersey  registered
declines, while  Nevada , the biggest U.S. casino market, posted a
2.4 percent increase through July, the group said Oct. 2.  Mike Trask, a Bally spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment on the IGT settlement today.  IGT, the world’s largest slot-machine maker, sued Bally in
2006 in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware, seeking to block
the use of Bally’s “Power Bonusing” system in casinos on the
East Coast and in Nevada. IGT, based in Reno, Nevada, alleged
that Bally infringed IGT’s “ACSC Power Winners” technology.  U.S. District Judge Sue Robinson ruled in 2009 that IGT’s
patents on the slot-machine technology were valid and Bally had
infringed them. She also ruled that Bally’s “SDS Power
Winners,” “Power Bank” and “Power Promotions” technologies
didn’t infringe IGT patents, IGT said at the time.  The case is  International Game Technology (IGT)  v. Bally Gaming,
06-282, U.S. District Court, Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  