-- Banks Pushing Into Small Loans Compete With Payday Shops
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-10-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/banks-pushing-into-small-loans-compete-with-payday-shops.html
Banks facing lower revenue from
debit-card and overdraft fees are ramping up marketing of small
short-term loans, prompting regulators to question if they carry
the same risks to borrowers as other forms of payday lending.  The high-cost loans offered by firms including  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  and  U.S. Bancorp (USB)  are meant for people who can’t access
other forms of bank credit, similar to the clients of storefront
or online payday lenders.  Scrutiny of the loans increased on Sept. 21, when North
Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper asked  Regions Financial
Corp. (RF)  to provide data showing its loans don’t violate the
state’s  interest-rate  cap. That followed a decision in May by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. to investigate payday-like
products offered by banks, joining an inquiry by the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau.  “They lend money at a high interest rate and get it paid
back at the next paycheck,” Cooper said in an interview. “We
want to come at this from all angles to prevent these kinds of
loans in North Carolina.”  The matter also has found its way into the judicial system.
In August, a private lawsuit was filed in U.S. District Court in
 Ohio , claiming that  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  deceived customers about
the true costs of its short-term loans.  Traditional storefront payday loans are secured by a check,
post-dated to a borrower’s next payday. Online versions require
clients to have payments directly debited from their bank
account. Consumer groups have charged that the loans prey on
low-income people by concealing costs and ensnaring them in an
expensive debt cycle.  High APR  The consumer bureau has said traditional payday loans can
carry annual interest rates as high as 521 percent. The cost of
the loans is usually expressed by converting the fees into an
annual percentage rate. For example, a two-week $100 loan
carrying a $15 fee would have a 390 percent APR.  At least five banks are offering the loans, typically
through a customer’s online account. The banks don’t use the
term “payday.” The Regions loan is called Ready Advance while
Wells Fargo markets Direct Deposit Advance. Banks say they offer
lower interest rates than traditional payday loans and that,
unlike nonbank lenders, they make sure customers can’t renew
their borrowing indefinitely.  Customers at Regions have given “overwhelmingly positive
feedback” to the short-term loans, Jeffrey Lee, the bank’s
executive vice president, wrote in an Oct. 4 letter to  North
Carolina  officials.  Lee said the loans “create a credit record that will
enable them to graduate to more mainstream credit products,
whether with us or with another reputable institution.”  Months in Debt  Bank products have similarities to typical payday loans,
according to a study by the Durham, North Carolina-based Center
for Responsible Lending. The group, which said it analyzed how
55 customers used the loans, concluded that they paid an average
annual interest rate of 365 percent, took out an average of 16
loans annually and spent more than half the year in debt.  “These loans are structured just like loans from payday
shops, where borrowers typically are stuck in multiple payday
loans per year -- usually in quick succession with a new fee
each time, because they cannot afford to repay the loan in full,
plus the fee, and meet ongoing expenses,” the group wrote in
the  report .  The cost of the loans is “particularly unwarranted”
because the bank’s ability to withdraw from the customer’s next
direct deposit means the risk of nonpayment is low, according to
the lawsuit against Fifth Third filed Aug. 3 by customers
William Klopfenstein of Royal Oak,  Michigan , and Adam McKinney
of Lanesville,  Indiana .  Swipe Fees  Fifth Third’s payday-like product violates state interest-
rate caps and the federal Truth in Lending Act, the suit
alleges. Fifth Third spokeswoman Debra Decourcy declined to
comment on pending litigation.  Banks, which don’t separate out their earnings from short-
term loans when reporting results, are seeking ways to replace
revenue lost to regulations such as tougher enrollment criteria
for overdraft programs and a 2010 Federal Reserve rule limiting
debit-card swipe fees. They are paying increased attention to
short-term loans, according to  Fiserv Inc. (FISV) , a Brookfield,
Wisconsin-based firm that sells a software package to help banks
market and manage the products.  “Banks can serve a different kind of consumer that they
typically wouldn’t serve, in a far more cost-effective way,”
Jeffery Yabuki, Fiserv’s chief executive, said in a July 30
conference call with analysts.  Overdraft Probe  Fiserv said its Relationship Advance software suite is
aimed at helping banks identify which customers might be
receptive to short-term loans. The firm says in marketing
materials that the product would cause at most a small drop in a
bank’s revenue from checking-account overdraft fees. Overdraft
fees accounted for $31.6 billion in 2011 revenue for U.S. banks,
said Lake Bluff, Illinois-based Moebs Services, a research firm.  The flow of revenue from those fees may shrink as the
consumer bureau investigates whether banks are marketing
overdraft-protection programs in a misleading way.  Michael Calhoun, president of the Center for Responsible
Lending, said he met this month with Brenda Potter, Fiserv’s
vice president of public affairs, urging the company to abandon
its payday product. Potter declined, she said in an interview.  Potter said the company sees “great potential” among all
types of banks and  credit unions . Fiserv doesn’t disclose the
number of clients who use the software, she said.  Flat Rate  The software appears as a button on online bank accounts.
When clicked, it takes the user through an enrollment process.
It is a “vanilla system,” in which the bank controls all the
essential characteristics of the loan, such as maximum size,
maturity and fees, Potter said.  Wells Fargo limits its Direct Deposit Advance loan to $500,
and charges $7.50 per $100 borrowed. Customers may access as
many as six consecutive loans. If borrowers fail to bring their
account into the black after those six loans, no further cash
advances are permitted until the debt is paid in full.  San Francisco-based Wells doesn’t offer the product in 14
states, many of which ban payday lending.  U.S. Bank , the banking brand of Minneapolis-based U.S.
Bancorp, markets Checking Account Advance, a loan of up to $500
for as long as 35 days, according to its website. The fee is $2
per $20 borrowed. Tulsa, Oklahoma-based  BOK Financial Corp. (BOKF) ,
parent of the Bank of  Oklahoma , offers a similar product called
FastLoan.  The Regions loan is available to customers who have been
with the bank at least a year. It includes a “cooling off
period” if borrowers max out their  credit line  for six
consecutive months,  Evelyn Mitchell , a spokeswoman for the
Birmingham, Alabama-based bank said.  Similar Customers  The banks may be drawing the same kinds of customers who
use traditional payday lenders. Regions has calculated that
about 50 percent of its customers who use Ready Advance earn
over $50,000 per year, and 24 percent earn over $75,000,
according to Lee’s letter.  Advance America Cash Advance Centers, Inc., a chain of
storefront payday lenders that was acquired by  Grupo Elektra SAB (ELEKTRA*) 
this year, has a similar customer base with a median income of
about $54,000 and 20 percent of customers making over $75,000,
according to Jamie Fulmer, a senior vice president at the
company. The median income has risen from the “low 40s” in the
last few years, Fulmer said.  “So many of our customers chose our products and services
instead of those offered by their banks. In many cases this is
because a loan from Advance America may be less expensive, in
addition to being simple, transparent and fully disclosed,”
Fulmer said in an e-mail.  Borrowing $150  Karen Buschke of Birmingham said she saw an advertisement
for Ready Advance loans on the Regions website and decided it
was similar to short-term loans she’d previously gotten for
emergency car repairs or to pay a medical bill.  “I looked at it and thought, ‘This is just like a payday
loan,’ ” Buschke, 53, said in an interview.  She borrowed $150. The bank deducted the repayment from her
weekly paycheck a few days later. That started a cycle in which
she borrowed additional money to meet her other obligations.  Buschke complained to the bank that she hadn’t had enough
time to repay the loan. Her balance then was converted into an
installment loan, which was finally paid off early this month.
The bank has since put her in the cooling-off period, she said.  Shay Farley, legal director for Alabama Appleseed, a
Montgomery-based advocacy group, said she disagreed with
consumer advocates who are “hammering” Regions over its
marketing of the product.  Executives at the bank have met with her group twice, and
have shown they’re serious about consumer protection by changing
the product’s structure over time, she said.  “I think they are trying to do the right thing -- to find
a product that meets the customers’ needs and makes a profit,”
Farley said in an interview. “It may be an answer, even if it’s
not the perfect answer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  