-- BASF CEO to Take ‘Deeper Dive’ Into U.S. Shale Opportunities
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-10-25T11:45:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/basf-ceo-to-take-deeper-dive-into-u-s-shale-opportunities-1-.html
BASF SE (BAS)  is taking a “deeper dive”
into investigating opportunities to harness shale gas in the
U.S. as feedstock costs threaten to squeeze margins, Chief
Executive Officer Kurt Bock said in an interview.  The German maker of plastics, additives and catalysts is
the third-largest chemical maker in the U.S. and like  Dow
Chemical Co. (DOW)  is benefitting from cheaper feedstock at the
operations it does have there, Bock said in a Bloomberg
television interview.  Minimizing feedstock costs is paramount as Bock said
passing on raw-material inflation has become more difficult.
Global chemical production will likely slow to about 3 percent
this year as a result of economic turbulence, with demand
expected to remain stagnant in the fourth quarter, the CEO said.  “We have now to take a deeper dive to see essentially what
could be investment opportunities in the area of shale gas in
 North America ,” Bock said, adding that it’s too early to make
any decisions on this.  The Ludwigshafen, Germany-based company is already
installing a new formic acid plant in Geismar,  Louisiana  that
benefits from fracking-based feedstocks. At the moment, the
company is reviewing other opportunities for additional
investments, the CEO said.  BASF is looking to bolster its own oil-and-gas division,
Wintershall, following a $1.35 billion deal to acquire North Sea
oil-field operations from Norway’s  Statoil ASA. (STL)  The deal marks a
transition toward production from a mainly exploration
operation. The purchase will boost Norwegian production to
40,000 barrels from an existing 3,000 barrels.  “Our ambitions are to grow a very profitable business
further on and we have done this over the last 15 years,
increasing the reserve ratio dramatically and improving the
regional portfolio,” Bock said. “It’s a very strong
contributor in terms earnings as well as  cash flow  and I don’t
see why this shouldn’t be a nice fit for the biggest chemical
company in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  