-- OGX Jumps as Batista May Buy $1 Billion of New Shares
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-10-25T19:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/batista-may-buy-1-billion-of-new-ogx-shares-through-put-option.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
soared the most in three months after Brazilian Billionaire  Eike
Batista  granted a put option that could require him to buy as
much as $1 billion of new stock in the oil company he controls
at a 36 percent premium.  OGX, based in Rio de Janeiro, rose 2.6 percent to 4.75
reais in  Sao Paulo  after climbing as much as 8.2 percent, the
most intraday since July 27. The benchmark Bovespa index rose
1.2 percent.  Batista will only exercise the option at a premium relative
to the market price to avoid harming minority shareholders,
Chief Financial Officer Roberto Monteiro said in an interview
today. Batista would buy the shares at 6.30 reais each, OGX said
yesterday after markets closed.  “It’s not like the main shareholder is going to dilute the
smaller shareholders,” Monteiro said by telephone from Rio.
“This is not the case.”  The  oil company  will exercise the option should it need
additional capital and in the absence of more favorable
financing options, according to its Oct. 24 statement
distributed by  Business Wire .  “The move aims to reduce investor concerns regarding the
sustainability of OGX’s cash position and its ability to raise
more money if needed,” Itau BBA SA analysts Paula Kovarsky and
Diego Mendes said in a note to clients yesterday.  The put option is designed as an “insurance policy” to
guarantee OGX has enough money to participate in the
government’s upcoming auction for exploration areas next year or
other oil assets for sale in  Brazil , Monteiro said.  Rights Offering  OGX would consider a “non-negotiable” rights offering
extended to all shareholders if the stock’s price exceeds the
value set for Batista’s  put option , he said. OGX is also
considering selling stakes in some of its more developed oil
projects or selling future oil production to raise cash if
needed, he said.  The company began reducing its drilling fleet in Brazil to
cut exploration costs and focus on developing the  oil fields  it
has discovered. The company has also expressed interest in
competing for new exploration blocks when Brazil holds an
auction as early as May.  OGX has declined 65 percent this year, compared with a 1.9
percent gain in the Bovespa Index.  “This option underpins my confidence in OGX’s technical
expertise and quality assets, as well as the new opportunities
that the oil and gas sector offer to OGX,” Batista said in
yesterday’s statement.  Batista is also buying shares in his shipbuilding and oil
services unit  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  to raise capital. Batista will pay
39.38 reais a share, more than triple the current price, to buy
as much as $1 billion of new stock in the unit as part of a plan
to raise capital as it invests in a shipyard, OSX said
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  