-- Batista Only Using $1 Billion OGX Option at Premium: CFO
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-10-25T17:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/batista-only-using-1-billion-ogx-option-at-premium-cfo.html
Billionaire  Eike Batista  will only
exercise an option to buy $1 billion of  OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA (OGXP3)  at a premium relative to the market price to
avoid harming minority shareholders, the company’s finance chief
said.  OGX, the Rio de Janeiro-based oil explorer Batista
controls, would consider a “non-negotiable” rights offering
extended to all shareholders if the price exceeds the 6.30 reais
set for Batista’s put option, Chief Financial Officer Roberto Monteiro said in an interview. OGX is also considering selling
stakes in some of its more developed oil projects or selling
future oil production to raise cash if needed, he said.  “It’s not like the main shareholder is going to dilute the
smaller shareholders,” Monteiro said by telephone from Rio.
“This is not the case.”  OGX soared the most in three months after Batista announced
he was granting the  put option  at a 36 percent premium to
yesterday’s close. It rose 4.5 percent to 4.84 reais at 3:21
p.m. in Sao Paulo after climbing as much as 8.2 percent, the
most intraday since July 27.  The put option is designed as an “insurance policy” to
guarantee OGX has enough money to participate in the
government’s upcoming auction for exploration areas next year or
other oil assets for sale in Brazil, Monteiro said. The
company’s $2.9 billion of cash at the end of June is enough to
set up four production vessels and produce enough oil to make
 cash flow  positive, he said.  “We still would have a cash cushion of $400 million,” he
said.  The company has ordered three floating, production, storage
and offloading vessels from  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , also controlled by
Batista, and will order a fourth after it explores the area
where the equipment will be used, he said. OGX needs to know
what type of oil is in the area to complete designing the
vessel, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  