-- Berkshire Wins ResCap Loan Auction With $1.5 Billion Bid
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-10-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/berkshire-said-to-win-rescap-loan-auction-with-1-5-billion-bid.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  won an
auction for a portfolio of Residential Capital LLC’s loans with
a $1.5 billion bid, adding to  Warren Buffett ’s bet on a housing
market recovery.  The competing bidder was a group that included a unit of
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , according to two people familiar with
the matter, who declined to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly. ResCap auctioned its mortgage-
servicing business to  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  on Oct. 24 for $3
billion. Ocwen beat  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)  in an
auction that would create at least the fifth-largest U.S.
mortgage servicer.  “This is part of their optimism on the overall home
market,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
said of the auction results in a phone interview yesterday.  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) , a Detroit-based auto lender majority
owned by U.S. taxpayers, allowed its New York-based ResCap unit
to file for bankruptcy in May to distance itself from the
mortgage lender’s losses and help repay its 2008 bailout
following the U.S.  housing  crash and subsequent credit crisis.
Ally was previously owned by General Motors Corp.  ResCap’s board approved Berkshire’s offer for the portfolio
of about 47,000 whole loans as the “highest and best bid,”
according to a statement. The agreement must now be approved by
the bankruptcy court. A hearing is set for Nov. 19. The two
auctions were expected to generate about $4 billion, ResCap said
in a May 14 statement announcing its bankruptcy.  Warren Buffett  Buffett, Berkshire’s chief executive officer, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment sent to an
assistant. Ted Weschler, 51, who joined Berkshire this year to
help pick stocks, has handled negotiations for Buffett’s firm in
its discussions with ResCap as his role expanded at the company,
according to court filings. Jack Grone, a spokesman at Credit
Suisse, declined to comment.  ResCap, coupled with Ally’s much smaller business, was the
fifth-largest mortgage servicer in the U.S. in the second
quarter, handling the billing and collections on about $329
billion of mortgages, according to Inside Mortgage Finance, a
trade journal. ResCap, once among the largest originators,
reduced its assets to $15.7 billion in the first quarter from
more than $130 billion in 2006.  Faulty Mortgages  Mortgage liabilities at ResCap from faulty home loans made
before the housing bubble burst helped derail Ally’s initial
public offering. A successful sale of the unit would allow Ally
Chief Executive Officer Michael Carpenter to separate the auto
lender from its money-losing unit.  Berkshire has been betting on a housing rally by buying a
brickmaker and expanding a real-estate brokerage as Buffett bets
the creation of new households will boost demand for property.
Berkshire also owns Clayton Homes, the producer of manufactured
homes, and also has units selling paint, flooring, furniture and
insulation.  Buffett told Bloomberg Television’s  Betty Liu  in July, a
month after he sought to be the lead bidder for ResCap’s loan
portfolio, that the housing market was beginning to rebound,
helping Berkshire’s units that make building supplies.  “If that’s true, then not only will they sell more bricks
and more carpet and more paint, but the value that he can
extract out of these loan portfolios should also work in his
favor,” Shields said yesterday.  Loan Portfolio  In 2008, Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire paid $300 million
for a portfolio of loans backing factory-built homes from CIT
Group Inc., another lender that went into bankruptcy. The next
year, Buffett invested in commercial real estate as Berkshire
and  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  established Berkadia Commercial
Mortgage LLC, which was formed from a loan-servicing and
mortgage business purchased out of bankruptcy and once owned by
ResCap’s parent.  Berkshire had about $2.7 billion in mortgage-backed
securities as of June 30 in a fixed-maturity portfolio valued at
more than $31 billion. Buffett is also the largest stockholder
in  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the top mortgage lender in the U.S., and
invested $5 billion last year in  Bank of America  Corp. The
company had $40.7 billion in cash at the end of June, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Morrison & Foerster LLP is ResCap’s law firm handling the
bankruptcy case. Centerview Partners LLC and  FTI Consulting Inc. (FCN) 
are the company’s financial advisers.  Berkshire’s class A shares climbed 0.1 percent to $130,582
in New York trading yesterday. The stock is up 14 percent this
year.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  