-- BHP CEO Says Olympic Dam Mine Expansion Decision Years Away
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-10-25T16:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/bhp-ceo-says-olympic-dam-mine-expansion-decision-years-away.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company, won’t be able to make an  investment
decision  on the estimated $33 billion Olympic Dam mine expansion
project in South Australia state for years.  “We’ve been very clear that on Olympic Dam we’re not in a
position to take any decisions for years,” Chief Executive
Officer  Marius Kloppers  told reporters today in  London . Time is
needed to allow for the results of new leaching technologies
that facilitate extraction of minerals from ore, he said.  BHP, with $22.8 billion of projects in execution, said in
August it would continue spending on iron ore expansions already
approved while deferring other large projects after revenue and
commodity prices fell. Ventures put on hold then included
Olympic Dam, estimated by Credit Suisse Group AG to cost $33
billion, where BHP had been due to make an investment decision
by the end of this year.  The expansion plans for Olympic Dam, located 560 kilometers
(348 miles) north of the state capital  Adelaide , would’ve made
it the world’s largest uranium mine within 11 years. BHP had
also been due to decide this year on its outer harbor iron ore
project in Western  Australia  and the Jansen potash operation in
 Canada . The three projects were estimated to cost a combined $68
billion, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  Kloppers expects all of the development documents for the
outer harbor project in Western Australia to be filed by the end
of next year. Building the harbor has been estimated to cost $22
billion by Credit Suisse.  ‘Quite Some Time’  The Jansen project in Saskatchewan, the world’s largest
potash-producing region, may cost $14 billion, BMO Capital
Markets wrote in an Oct. 22 report. BHP is waiting for lease
approvals over the project as well as a “substantial amount”
of engineering work to complete, Kloppers said.  “We think we’ve got a good project,” he said following
the company’s annual general meeting of shareholders. “We do
have quite some time ahead of us before we need to consider
additional approvals.”  The company is developing two underground shafts that would
support production of at least 8 million tons a year, Kloppers
said at an analyst briefing in London in August. BMO estimates
global potash demand to be “adequately covered” to the mid-
2020s and BHP would be best served by returning cash to
shareholders rather than building the mine.  “We estimate that Jansen is just as unattractive as the
two recently canceled projects - Olympic Dam and Outer Harbor,”
BMO analysts Joel Jackson and  Tony Robson  said in the report.
“We believe that the worst option is to build Jansen, although
this may well be what BHP intends to do.”  Buying an existing producer, such as North American
supplier  Mosaic Co. (MOS) , would also be a better option for BHP
rather than building Jansen, the analysts said.  BHP was little changed at 1,995 pence in London today. It
earlier gained 0.2 percent to A$34.37 in Sydney trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  