-- Billionaire Hedge Fund’s Naval Prize Nabs 1% of Payday
-- B y   D r e w   B e n s o n   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-10-25T16:26:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/billionaire-hedge-fund-s-naval-prize-nabs-1-of-payday.html
For all the embarrassment
billionaire Paul Singer caused  Argentina  by seizing one of its
navy ships, the biggest triumph in a decade-long dispute brings
him just 1 percent closer to recouping his $1.6 billion claim.  The hedge fund manager still lacks the leverage to compel
the government to settle, even after Argentina sought help from
the United Nations, evacuated part of the 326 member crew and
fired the head of its navy since Ghana impounded the training
vessel on behalf of Singer on Oct. 2, according to Anna Gelpern,
a professor at Georgetown University. Singer, who owns debt from
Argentina’s $95 billion default, rejected two restructuring
offers that paid investors 30 cents on the dollar and is seeking
to force the South American country to repay in full.  While Singer’s efforts from freezing Argentine central bank
funds in New York to seizing the navy’s tall ship in  Africa  have
failed to result in payouts, Argentina’s unwillingness to
resolve the claims has also prevented the nation from tapping
the international credit markets for more than a decade. That’s
prompted the government to use foreign reserves to pay debt and
increased its borrowing costs to more than double the 4.65
percent average for developing nations.  “It’s getting loopier and loopier,” Gelpern said in a
telephone interview from  Washington . “They’re throwing mud at
the wall to see what will stick.”  Peter Truell, a spokesman for Singer's New York-based 
hedge fund Elliot Management Corp., declined to comment on the 
ship seizure and the firm’s attempts to recoup its money.  Sovereign Immunity  The average yield on bonds issued by Argentina, the world’s
largest soybean exporter, is 10.62 percent. That’s more than
twice the 4.875 percent rate that  Bolivia , one of the region’s
poorest countries, offered to sell 10-year bonds on Oct. 22.  Ghana  detained the Argentine vessel after a court in the
West African nation ruled in favor of a claim by Elliott’s NML
Capital Ltd. that the prospectus for the defaulted Argentine
bonds waived sovereign immunity on attachable assets.  Argentina modified prospectuses on bonds issued in its 2005
and 2010 restructurings to exempt certain assets, including
military property, from the sovereign immunity waiver.  Lawyers for NML wrote in an Oct. 5 letter that the fund
would authorize the navy ship to leave the port of Tema if the
country posted a $20 million bond, according to legal
correspondence obtained by Bloomberg.  ‘Take Our Frigate’  After the  ARA Libertad  was held in Ghana for almost three
weeks, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  ordered on Oct.
20 the evacuation of sailors on board the three-mast frigate,
including crew members from  Brazil ,  Chile , Uruguay,  Paraguay ,
 Venezuela ,  Ecuador , Bolivia and South Africa.  While she also ordered the government to seek damages from
Ghana, two days later Fernandez said they could keep the ship.  “As long as I’m president, you can take our frigate, but
nobody is going to take the liberty, the sovereignty and dignity
of this nation,” Fernandez said in an Oct. 22 speech.  The government chartered an Air France jetliner, which
isn’t subject to seizure upon landing in Ghana, to fly the
stranded sailors back to Buenos Aires.  Litigating creditors that also include Kenneth Dart, the
billionaire foam-cup magnate who runs EM Ltd., have attempted to
satisfy judgments through an array of ploys including the
freezing of Argentine bank accounts and trying to ground the
presidential plane Tango 01 during a maintenance trip to the
U.S. They’ve been mostly unsuccessful so far, even though legal
appeals have reached as high as the U.S. Supreme court.  ‘Small Potatoes’  While the ship, worth just 1 percent of the value of
outstanding claims that Singer owns, is “small potatoes,” the
hedge fund manager could ultimately gain the upper hand if it
wins a separate case in U.S. federal appeals court, said Mark Weidemaier, a law professor at the University of North Carolina.  Argentina appealed a decision from a U.S. district court
that a so-called pari passu clause in the defaulted debt
securities bars Argentina from paying owners of the new bonds
before it pays the so-called holdouts. If upheld, the ruling
could force Argentina into default on bond payments if it
refused to pay the hedge funds. The court heard arguments in
July and a ruling is expected any day.  “If you can present the government with the choice between
default and paying you, you’re in great shape,” Weidemaier
said.  Diego Ferro, who helps oversee more than $500 million at
Greylock Capital Management LLC in New York, says Argentina will
continue to struggle to protect its property abroad as long as
Fernandez refuses to settle with the hedge funds.  ‘Very Careful’  “If you’re Argentina and you don’t want to comply with
judgments from U.S. courts, which Elliott has won, you have to
be very careful with where you have your assets around the
globe,” Ferro said. “In this case, they made a mistake and
they’re paying for it.”  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold
Argentine government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries
narrowed eight basis points to 850 at 1:15 p.m. in Buenos Aires,
according to JPMorgan.  The cost of protecting Argentine debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps rose 16 basis points to
972 basis points, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The swaps pay
the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities
or cash if a government or company fails to comply with debt
agreements.  Warrants tied to Argentina’s economic growth rose 0.04 cent
to 12.52 cents. The peso slid 0.1 percent to 4.7513 per dollar.  Argentina is unlikely to let a $20 million ship force it to
negotiate with Elliott after thwarting its legal advances for a
decade and may instead dig in its heels, said Jorge Piedrahita,
chief executive officer at Torino Capital LLC.  Fernandez’s Foreign Ministry has derided Elliott as a
“vulture fund” that mounted “an attack that is nothing less
than kidnapping, extortion and an act of piracy against a
sovereign nation,” according to an Oct. 20 statement.  “I don’t think the government feels more pressure to reach
a solution with the vulture funds with this boat,” Piedrahita
said in a telephone interview from New York. “They are
ideologically walled in to not doing so.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  