-- Billionaire Okada’s Vegas Losses Mount as Wynn Doubles Dividend
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-10-25T05:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/billionaire-okada-s-vegas-losses-mount-as-wynn-doubles-dividend.html
Billionaire Kazuo Okada missed out
on an almost $200 million jackpot after  Wynn Resorts (WYNN)  Ltd., the
casino company he co-founded, declared a special dividend
yesterday.  The Las Vegas-based company run by billionaire  Steve Wynn 
declared an $8-a-share payout for investors holding the stock on
Nov. 7. Okada, 70, was the company’s  largest shareholder  until
February of this year when Wynn Resorts unilaterally redeemed
his 24.5 million-share position.  Wynn Resorts, which owns casinos in  Las Vegas  and Macau,
also doubled its quarterly dividend to $1 a share, meaning Okada
would have been entitled to payouts of almost $25 million a
quarter going forward.  Michael Weaver, a spokesman for Wynn Resorts declined to
comment. Steve Getzug, a Los Angeles-based spokesman for Okada,
said he would try to reach the executive, whose  Universal
Entertainment Corp. (6425)  is based in  Tokyo .  Wynn Resorts redeemed Okada’s shares at a 30 percent
discount to market value after declaring the executive
unsuitable to be an investor. The discount amounted to a $700
million hit to Okada’s net worth.  The board accused the Japanese pachinko machine maker of
trying to influence Asian casino regulators with free hotel
rooms and cash. Okada has denied the charges and challenged Wynn
Resorts’ action in court.  Wynn, also 70, said in a conference call yesterday that his
company increased the dividend because interest on bonds are low
and investors are looking for higher-yielding stocks to hold.
Wynn Resorts purchased Okada’s holdings in exchange for a $1.9
billion promissory note from the company that pays 2 percent
annually. Wynn Resorts shares now yield 3.6 percent per year,
based on yesterday’s dividend increase and closing stock price
of $112.29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  