-- Libya Leaks, Charges Leave Questions Unanswered
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-10-25T00:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/blizzard-of-leaks-and-charges-leaves-libya-questions-unanswered.html
While six weeks of leaks and
testimony have made it clear that the Obama administration had
reports from the start that the assault on the U.S. diplomatic
mission in Benghazi, Libya, was a terrorist attack, the partisan
dueling still leaves at least three questions unanswered.  The first is why the administration persisted for days in
saying the attack was a spontaneous demonstration that “seems
to have been hijacked” by militants. A second is whether U.S.
Ambassador to Libya Chris Stevens, who died in the assault, had
requested more bodyguards or other security. A third is how
Stevens was lost if, as a State Department e-mail during the
melee reported, “the compound had been cleared.”  Republicans have seized on that e-mail and another sent
about 25 minutes after the assault started that said the mission
was “under attack” as proof that the administration knew the
assault was violent from the start. U.S. officials yesterday
confirmed the authenticity of the e-mails.  Speaking to reporters yesterday, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said another e-mail two hours after the attack reporting
that an extremist group had claimed credit for it on Facebook
“is not in and of itself evidence.”  “I think it just underscores how fluid the reporting was
at the time and continued for some time to be,” she said.  A review board Clinton named to investigate will look “at
everything” instead of “cherry-picking one story here or one
document there,” she said.  Political Attack  Republicans are citing the e-mails in support of a
political line of attack against President  Barack Obama  by 
challenger  Mitt Romney  and campaign surrogates.  “There was no demonstration involved; it was a terrorist
attack, and it took a long time for that to be told to the
American people,” Romney said at the town hall debate with
Obama on Oct. 16. “Whether there was some misleading or instead
whether we just didn’t know what happened, I think you have to
ask yourself why didn’t we know five days later when the
ambassador to the United Nations went on TV to say that this was
a demonstration.”  White House press secretary Jay Carney, traveling with
Obama, said yesterday that the e-mails are just a fraction of 
the evidence the administration was collecting during and 
immediately after the attack.  “There were e-mails about all sorts of information that
was becoming available in the aftermath of the attack,” Carney
said.  Administration and congressional officials who have
reviewed the reports say that’s true, and they confirm that the
early reporting described the attack as a spontaneous action
inspired by protests next door in  Egypt  against an anti-Muslim
video.  Claiming Responsibility  The early reports don’t support the description of a
peaceful demonstration taking place that was hijacked by
terrorists, as U.S. Ambassador to the UN Susan Rice said on
Sept. 16. The officials requested anonymity because they aren’t
authorized to discuss the politically charged topic.  A report in one of the e-mails that the militant group
Ansar al-Sharia had claimed responsibility for the assault
proves nothing, said one of the officials, who said many if not
most such claims for terrorist attacks are bogus.  For that reason and because of the confusion surrounding
what was happening, all the contemporaneous reports carried the
customary bureaucratic caveats that the information they
contained was preliminary, incomplete, fragmentary and subject
to revision, the officials said.  One Arrest  That, the officials said, leaves open the question of why
Rice and other administration spokesmen didn’t simply say there
were conflicting reports, the details were unclear and the
president was determined to track down those responsible for the
deaths of Stevens and three other Americans.  Better information, on the attack at least, may be
forthcoming. The Tunisian government has arrested a 28-year-old
Tunisian man, Ali Harzi, in connection with the Benghazi
assault, according to the Associated Press. U.S. officials had
no comment.  Congressional and media inquiries have produced a number of
diplomatic cables and other messages from Stevens and security
officers at the U.S. Embassy in Tripoli, the Libyan capital,
warning through the spring and summer that more security was
needed and, separately, that the situation in Benghazi was
deteriorating.  It’s still not clear, though, whether Stevens asked
 Washington  for more armed guards, weapons, armored vehicles and
higher walls in Tripoli and in Benghazi, the officials said.
They declined to discuss whether he sent priority “Roger
Channel” or “Exdis” (exclusive distribution) cables to
Clinton seeking reinforcements, saying the review board headed
by former high-ranking diplomat Thomas Pickering will
investigate all communications from Stevens.  Stevens’s Style  U.S. officials who knew Stevens have said that, while he
was aware of the dangers surrounding his mission, he preferred
to operate in the open and meet with ordinary Libyans. On the
night of his death, in fact, he walked his last guest, a Turkish
visitor, to the front gate of the U.S. compound in Benghazi,
they said.  Finally, the circumstances of Stevens’s death remain murky.
Libyan eyewitnesses have said they found him near death in a
smoke-filled safe room in the compound and took him by car to a
local hospital, where he was pronounced dead.  One of the e-mails first obtained by the Associated Press
and other news organizations, though, reported about 90 minutes
after the attack began that it had stopped, the compound had
been cleared and a “response team” was attempting to find
missing personnel, presumably including the ambassador.  About that time, Libyan guards in the response team
“insisted for everyone’s safety, they needed to evacuate the
site,” Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Charlene Lamb told a
House panel on Oct. 10. The security team “made a final search
for the ambassador before leaving the annex in an armored
vehicle,” she said. “They took heavy fire as they pulled away
from the main building and on the street outside the compound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  