-- BlueMountain to Saba Searching for Yield in Bond Exotica
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-10-25T16:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/bluemountain-to-saba-searching-for-yield-in-bond-exotica.html
BlueMountain Capital Management LLC
and Saba Capital Management LP are leading investors into the
debt market’s darker corners to boost returns, buying securities
from collateralized loan obligations to bonds that seldom trade.  BlueMountain, the $11 billion hedge fund firm in  New York ,
raised twice the amount it anticipated this month from pension
managers for a credit fund that buys CLOs, asset-backed
securities and less liquid corporate bonds. Saba, founded by
 Boaz Weinstein , says CLOs are cheap compared with the underlying
loans, while Citigroup Inc. sees banks “getting increasingly
involved” in the securities for higher returns on capital.  Investors are casting a wider net as they face a fifth year
of  near-zero interest rates  and bond yields at record lows amid
Federal Reserve efforts to lift the economy and lower
unemployment. Even the lowest-rated portions of CLOs, which were
shunned after the financial crisis, are making a comeback.  “The corporate market has compressed so much, people are
looking everywhere,” said  Ashish Shah , head of global credit
investments at New York-based AllianceBernstein LP, which
oversees $230 billion in fixed-income assets. Investors such as
him have “become more open” to assets like CLOs because they
“haven’t compressed as much as comparable credit,” he said.
“They represent remaining parts of value in the market.”  Issuance Triples  CLO issuance has more than tripled this year to a more than
five-year high of $36 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg and
Morgan Stanley show. The instruments, which peaked at $91.1
billion of sales in 2007, are a type of collateralized debt
obligation that pool high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them
into securities of varying risk and return.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. expects $45 billion of CLOs will be
sold in 2012, and as much as $70 billion next year, analysts led
by Rishad Ahluwalia said in a report dated Oct. 19.  “During hot markets, bankers will typically slowly start
pushing the envelope little by little, introducing either lower
 credit quality  or increasingly esoteric structures to get a
sense of the market’s acceptance,”  Adrian Miller , director of
global market strategy at GMP Securities LLC in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “There’s still room to go with
structured credit.”  Clear Channel  Elsewhere in credit markets, Clear Channel Communications
Inc. issued $2 billion of bonds after the radio and billboard
company said its offer to exchange term loans for the new notes
was oversubscribed. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
approved rules intended to increase transparency in a corner of
the market for mortgage- and asset-backed bonds.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, increased 1.06 basis point to 10.78 basis
points. The gauge, which narrows when investors favor assets
such as corporate bonds and widens when they seek the perceived
safety of  government securities , touched 8 basis points on Oct.
17, the lowest level in Bloomberg data back to 1988.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. and  Europe  was little changed.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, rose 0.1
basis point to a mid-price of 98.7 basis points as of 12:15 p.m.
in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
measure has climbed from 89.7 on Oct. 17, the lowest level since
contracts on the latest version of the index started trading
Sept. 20.  In  London , the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings rose 0.3 to 128.2.  PDVSA Bonds  The indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of Caracas-based Petroleos de Venezuela SA, or PDVSA,
are the most actively traded dollar-denominated corporate
securities by dealers today, with 93 trades of $1 million or
more as of 12:14 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Clear Channel’s 9 percent securities due in December 2019
yield 780 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. More than $8.6 billion
of loans were submitted for the exchange, the San Antonio-based
company said in a statement today.  Fully Backed  The so-called priority guarantee notes will be “fully and
unconditionally” backed by the parent company and all
“existing and future domestic wholly-owned restricted
subsidiaries,” the company said in an Oct. 12 statement. The
notes also will be secured by certain Clear Channel assets.  The SEC agreed to a plan by the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority to create public reporting for trades of
so-called specified government-backed mortgage bonds and
securities tied to Small Business Administration loans,
according to an Oct. 23 notice posted on its website.  The protocols for disclosures through Finra’s Trace system
will allow for the unique identifiers of bonds called CUSIPs to
be hidden, in favor of generic information about the securities.  CLO Outlook  JPMorgan predicts that relative yields on top-rated
portions of CLOs will drop to 125 basis points more than the
London interbank offered rate by the end of the year, compared
with coupons on new deals last week of as much as 143 basis
points over the benchmark, analysts Ahluwalia and Maggie Wang
wrote in the Oct. 19 report. Spreads will continue to narrow to
100 by the middle of 2013, they said.  “Some CLOs issued before 2008 are still undervalued
comparing to the underlying assets,”  James Wang , a  money
manager  at Saba in New York, said in a telephone interview. Wang
said he likes debt from older CLOs, which “are more stable
because they are short-dated” and “have relatively low
volatility compared to the average CLO.”  BlueMountain raised $1.5 billion, double its target, for
its Credit Opportunities Master Fund I that invests in
structured corporate credit including CLOs, asset-backed
securities and less liquid corporate credit. Investors were
primarily pension funds in the U.S.,  Canada ,  Japan , and Europe,
Stephen Siderow, the fund’s president and co-founder, said in an
interview last week with Deirdre Bolton on Bloomberg
Television’s “Money Moves.”  Attracting Pensions  “We actually don’t think you have to take on that much
more risk to enhance your return,” Bryce Markus, a money
manager at BlueMountain, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “You need to forego liquidity and possibly accept
complexity but not necessarily greater market risk. For longer-
duration capital we think these types of assets make a ton of
sense.”  Pension managers were particularly attracted to the fund
because they traditionally have had long-dated liabilities and
shorter-dated, more liquid portfolios, said Markus, a managing
principal at the firm.  “We are seeing more and more pension funds embrace that
type of investing, where they see significant returns from
moving into longer-dated, less liquid investments,” he said.  BlueMountain also bought a portfolio of assets from
synthetic collateralized debt obligations, backed by derivatives
bets on the creditworthiness of borrowers, from  Credit Agricole
SA (ACA) , Siderow said last week in the Bloomberg Television
interview.  Likely Tempered  “There will be more of those types of transactions” as
U.S. and European banks cut risk and raise capital to comply
with more stringent global  capital requirements  and the Dodd-
Frank Act in the U.S., he said.  The Fed’s resolve to hold  interest rates  at about zero for
another three years has pushed yields on corporate debt to the
lowest ever. Bonds with maturities from one to three years have
returned 4.1 percent this year, compared with 11.7 percent for
debt with seven- to 10-year maturities, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  The move back into structured credit is likely to be
tempered by the outsized losses they left investors with during
the crisis four years ago, said Noel Hebert, chief investment
officer at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth
Management LLC, which oversees about $250 million.  Institutional investors “won’t soon wade back into that
pool regardless of yield -- too much career risk,” he said.
“The one unforgivable sin is to get pinged by them again,” so
it’s more  hedge funds  or more aggressive fund managers that are
investing now, he said.  ‘Terrible’ Cycle  As opportunities in older CLOs diminish amid spread-
tightening and maturities of existing bonds, investors are
migrating toward new deals, said  Robert Cohen , a senior credit
analyst at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP, which
oversees $45 billion in assets.  “The CLO structures have worked and they’ve survived a
terrible credit cycle,” he said. “As those prices tighten up
with the rest of the market, it makes people think about
investing in new deals, plus a new deal has the benefit of new
collateral and fresh portfolio quality and coverage tests as
well,” Cohen said.  Yields on the top-rated tranches widened to as much as 725
basis points seven months after the September 2008 collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Morgan Stanley data show. Spreads
on benchmark U.S. CLO portions rated AAA trade at 130 basis
points, JPMorgan said in the Oct. 19 note.  ‘Cheapest’ Assets  “CLO AAAs are one of the cheapest highly-rated assets”
with “negligible credit risk,” the JPMorgan strategists wrote
last week.  Some funds that buy speculative-grade debt are allocating
money to lower-ranking investment-grade portions of CLOs
“because they’re getting similar or higher yield and they’re
getting the fact that CLO A has subordination below it to
protect them from some default losses,” which explains some of
the rally in that slice, Citigroup analyst Ratul Roy said in a
telephone interview.  In the past, “there was limited equity capital available
so managers needed to bring most or all of the equity do get a
deal done,” DoubleLine’s Cohen said. “Now managers are able to
get deals done with substantially less, with third party
capital, so that’s helping to drive new issuance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  