-- BNP’s Rating Cut by S&P as SocGen Gets Negative Outlook
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   A l a n   K a t z
-- 2012-10-26T09:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/bnp-debt-rating-cut-by-s-p-socgen-given-negative-outlook.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest
bank, was among the country’s lenders whose credit rating was
cut by  Standard & Poor’s  on concern it may be hurt by Europe’s
prolonged economic weakness and a housing slump at home.  BNP Paribas’s long-term counterparty credit grade was
lowered one level to A+ from AA-, S&P said in a statement late
yesterday. S&P also revised its outlook to negative from stable
for 10 other French banks, including  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and
 Societe Generale SA. (GLE)  Shares of the three banks tumbled in Paris.  France’s 13-year-high unemployment rate, government debt
approaching 90 percent of gross domestic product and trade
deficits “are being aggravated in our view by the on-going
euro-zone crisis, a more protracted recession across Europe, and
lower domestic-growth prospects,” S&P said. French banks also
face “potentially limited, but still noteworthy, impact from an
ongoing correction in the housing market,” it said.  The S&P verdict comes as France’s largest banks have found
their funding situation stabilizing, thanks to 1 trillion euros
($1.29 trillion) in long-term loans by the  European Central Bank 
to the region’s lenders and the ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s
agreement last month to buy the bonds, under some conditions, of
euro nations whose sovereign yields have skyrocketed.  As the biggest holders of private and public debt in the
euro-area’s problem economies, French banks have had the most to
gain from the ECB’s moves as the crisis enters its fourth year.  Market Reaction  Credit default swaps, which reflect the cost of insuring
against a default, for BNP Paribas, Societe Generale and Credit
Agricole edged higher today after sliding last week to the
lowest since July 2011, when prospects for euro-area crisis
contagion blocked the banks’ access to debt markets and froze
them out of U.S. dollar funds.  Shares of the three banks slid in Paris today, with  BNP
Paribas falling  as much as 3.6 percent and trading down 2.7
percent at 38.56 euros by 11:03 a.m. to give the bank a market
value of about 48 billion euros.  Societe Generale , France’s
second-largest bank by market value, fell 2.8 percent to 24.19
euros and  Credit Agricole declined  3.5 percent to 5.79 euros.  BNP Paribas’s spokeswoman Julia Boyce declined to comment
on the S&P downgrade.  S&P’s stripping of French government debt of its AAA rating
in January has had little impact on the country’s borrowing
costs. On Aug. 3, the yield on French 10-year bonds slid to a
record low of 2.002 percent. U.S. borrowing costs tumbled after
the biggest economy was stripped of the top credit grade 14
months ago.  French Housing  S&P today estimated that French  house prices  may fall
between 10 percent and 15 percent in the next two to three
years. It added, however, that “French banks will continue to
benefit from sound domestic asset quality.”  France  has provided more than 60 billion euros of support
for three of the nation’s specialized lenders including home-
loans company Credit Immobilier de France.  The move came as Europe’s second-largest economy slumps,
forcing consumers to tighten their purse strings. The economic
weakness, as well as low  interest rates , will put pressure on
French banks’ revenue in 2013 and 2014, S&P said.  Banque Solfea SA’s long-term grade was reduced one level to
A- from A, according to S&P’s statement. Cofidis SA’s was cut
one step to BBB+ from A-.  BNP Paribas, Cofidis and Banque Solfea were downgraded by
S&P as “these groups are more vulnerable to the impact of
rising economic risks in the eurozone, particularly in France
and countries in southern Europe,” the ratings agency said.  Both BNP Paribas and  Credit Agricole  operate Italian branch
networks. French banks held $540 billion in private and public
debt in Greece, Ireland, Italy,  Portugal  and Spain at the end of
June, the highest amount among foreign lenders, Bank for
International Settlements data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
 Alan Katz  in Paris at 
 akatz5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ; 