-- Boehringer to Pay $95 Million to Resolve Drug Promotion Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-25T20:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/boehringer-to-pay-95-million-to-resolve-drug-promotion-case-1-.html
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals
Inc. will pay $95 million to settle government claims it
improperly promoted four drugs, the U.S. Justice Department
said.  The accord ends a federal False Claims Act lawsuit in
 Maryland  filed by Robert Heiden, a former company sales
representative, the government said today in a statement. Heiden
will get $17 million for his role as whistle-blower.  Boehringer promoted drugs for uses that weren’t approved by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and weren’t covered by
federal health-care programs, prosecutors said. Three of the
drugs were Aggrenox, used in the prevention of strokes;
Micardis, the blood-pressure medication; and Combivent, used to
treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.  The company also was accused of promoting the use of
Combivent and another pulmonary disease drug, Atrovent, at doses
exceeding those covered by federal health care programs and of
paying kickbacks to induce medical professionals to prescribe
all four of them.  “The company has been cooperating with the government
since its investigation began,” Kate O’Connor, a spokeswoman,
said by e-mail, adding that the company wanted to avoid the time
and expense of litigation. “The settlement is civil only and is
not an admission of liability by the company.”  The company is a unit of Ingelheim, Germany-based
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH.  More than $78.4 million in settlement funds will go to the
federal government. State Medicaid programs will get
$16.5 million, according to the U.S.  New York  will received more than $3.1 million, the state
said. Ohio will receive almost $1.4 million, according to a
statement from state Attorney General Mike DeWine.  “The accurate marketing of medications is essential for
their safe and beneficial use by those in need,” DeWine said.
“It’s also vital when it comes to paying for those medications.
Anything else is unfair to patients and taxpayers, and
illegal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 