-- BOJ Minds Its Words as Emerging Nations Eye Global Easing Warily
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-10-25T03:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/boj-minds-its-words-as-emerging-nations-eye-global-easing-warily.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  is trying to
improve its communication with non-Japanese as monetary easing
in developed economies fuels concerns about capital flows and as
foreigners grab a rising share of the nation’s debt.  The central bank held its first English-language briefings
for foreign media in Tokyo on Oct. 22 and 23. Mizuho Securities
Co. says policy makers may as early as next week alter the
English translation of their agenda to highlight an inflation
“target” rather than a “goal,” emphasizing a commitment to
ending deflation.  “More than ever, we see the need for careful explanations
of the Bank of  Japan ’s policies in simple terms for
foreigners,” Shuji Kobayakawa, assistant director general at
the bank’s monetary affairs department, said in an interview in
 Tokyo . “It’s becoming difficult to understand the whole picture
of monetary policy and its framework with an increasing number
of unconventional policies.”  Easing by central banks in major developed economies such
as Japan and the U.S. is drawing criticism from emerging nations
such as Brazil and  Russia  about effects on currencies and risks
including capital flows that can fuel inflation and asset
bubbles. At the same time, increased foreign holdings of
Japanese government debt, up 20 percent to 81.6 trillion yen ($1
trillion) in the second quarter, are giving the rest of the
world a bigger stake in Japan’s economy.  ‘Speak Clearly’  “The BOJ wants to say that it’s conducting appropriate
policies as it faces growing concerns among emerging nations
about easing,” said  Hiromichi Shirakawa , chief Japan economist
at Credit Suisse Group AG and a former BOJ official. “Increased
foreign ownership of Japanese debt also gives it a bigger
incentive to speak clearly to the world.”  As Japanese exporters struggle with gains in the yen that
crimp their sales and profits, any perception that the BOJ is
deepening its commitment to defeating deflation could help to
weaken the currency. The median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of analysts is for the yen to end 2012 at 78 per dollar,
up 19 percent over three years. It was 79.95 as of 12:14 p.m. in
Tokyo today.  As well as the media briefings, the bank has explained its
policies to the U.S. and U.K. chambers of commerce and the
Indonesian embassy in Tokyo, Kobayakawa said. The BOJ has also
tapped Satoshi Kawazoe, the former head of its London office,
for an international communications role and in December set up
an  English Twitter account  that has more than 2,000 followers.  More Easing  The BOJ has this year boosted the asset-purchase funds
which are its main policy tool amid near-zero  interest rates .
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and UBS AG expect more stimulus at its next
meeting on Oct. 30, where the wording on the inflation goal
could be altered according to Mizuho. The bank buys  government
bonds , exchange-traded funds, real-estate investment trusts and
other assets.  Russian Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said at an
International Monetary Fund meeting in Tokyo on Oct. 13 that
easing in the U.S. and Japan is undermining efforts to control
inflation, while BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said that the
bank knows the impact of its policies needs  “close
monitoring.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  