-- BP Cancels Florida Ethanol Plant, Extends Renewable Exit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-10-25T19:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/bp-cancels-plans-to-build-florida-cellulosic-ethanol-plant.html
BP Plc (BP/) , Europe’s second-biggest oil
producer, is abandoning a cellulosic ethanol project in the
U.S., its second move in a year to scale back in renewable
energy.  The company canceled plans to build a $300 million
cellulosic ethanol plant in Highlands County, Florida, to focus
on “more attractive” projects, according to a  statement  on its
website today.  BP doesn’t plan to build any commercial cellulosic ethanol
facilities on its own, and will now focus its U.S. biofuel
efforts on research and development and licensing its
technology,  Matt Hartwig , a spokesman, said today in an
interview. The company decided in December to wind down its
solar business, which had become unprofitable after prices
plunged.  “Ethanol is not something a lot of people are interested
in investing money in,”  Mark Schultz , an analyst at Northstar
Commodity Investment Co. in Minneapolis, said in an interview
today.  “Corn-based ethanol hasn’t been profitable for about a
year,” he said. BP is “seeing that this isn’t the right street
to go down anymore.”  Cellulosic ethanol is a renewable fuel produced from
inedible feedstocks such as waste and switchgrass. U.S.
government  mandates  require that refiners blend 36 billion
gallons (136 billion liters) of biofuels into their products
annually by 2022. The Environmental Protection Agency has had to
slash the targets for cellulosic ethanol because it isn’t yet
commercially available.  Verenium Venture  BP announced plans in 2008 to build the plant, which would
have produced 36 million gallons of fuel a year. It formed a
venture with biofuels company  Verenium Corp. (VRNM)  in 2009 to jointly
build the plant in south-central Florida and each invested $22.5
million in the project. BP bought Verenium’s biofuels business
for $98.3 million in September 2010.  “We believe it is in the best interest of our shareholders
to redeploy the considerable capital required to build this
facility,”  Geoff Morrell , a BP spokesman, said in the
statement.  BP continues to work with other renewable-fuel developers
including its Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC joint venture with
DuPont Co., Hartwig said. It will continue to operate a
cellulosic ethanol pilot plant in Louisiana and a research
facility in  San Diego , he said.  BP last year began exiting the global solar-energy industry
after 40 years. Competition from Chinese manufacturers created a
glut of panels, helping drive down prices 48 percent last year.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is Europe’s biggest crude producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  