-- Brazil Jobless Rate at Low for September on Growth Outlook
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-10-25T13:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/brazil-s-unemployment-rate-rises-first-time-in-three-months-1-.html
Brazil ’s  unemployment rate  was at a
record low for September as companies expect the economy to
rebound from its slowest growth in three years. The benchmark
stock index surged the most since Sept. 13.  Unemployment fell to 5.4 percent from 6 percent a year
earlier, even as it rose compared with August, the national
statistics agency said in Rio de Janeiro today. The median
estimate of 35 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 5.3
percent jobless rate.  Unemployment has remained at historic lows this year even as
growth slows in the world’s second-largest emerging market.
President Dilma Rousseff’s government has enacted a series of
stimulus measures to spur expansion, including eliminating payroll
taxes and other incentives to companies that pledge to avoid
firing workers. Companies have hoarded workers and held off on new
hiring in the anticipation of economic recovery.  “For this time of year it’s still a relatively good result,
especially given the background of slow growth,” Daniel Snowden,
 emerging markets  analyst at Informa Global Markets, said by phone
from  London . “If unemployment can remain around these levels it
provides a strong platform for the economy to continue its
recovery going forward into next year.”  Brazil’s benchmark stock index rose 1.66 percent to 58,109.04
points at 11:02 a.m. local time. Swap rates on the contract
maturing in January 2013, the most traded in Sao Paulo today, were
little changed at 7.11 percent.  Economic Growth  Economists surveyed by the central bank forecast growth will
accelerate to 4 percent in 2013, after slowing to 1.54 percent
this year. The economy grew at annualized rates of 0.5 percent and
1.6 percent in the first and second quarters.  Brazil generated 150,334 jobs in September, up from 100,938
in August and the most since April, according to a Oct. 17 Labor
Ministry report. Still, September job creation was down 28.1
percent from last year as demand for exports slumps amid a
slowdown in  China  and a deepening of  Europe ’s debt woes.  Yesterday, the government extended until the end of the year
a cut to so-called IPI taxes for vehicles as part of its plan to
revive economic growth.  “Brazil is one of the few countries where employment
continues to expand,” Finance Minister Guido Mantega told
reporters yesterday. “Manufacturing industry, the sector most
affected by the crisis, is already increasing employment.”  Car manufacturing is a cornerstone of Brazil’s economy and
the tax cuts helped push sales to a  record  420,080 vehicles in
August.  Rate Cuts  Since August 2011, officials have also cut the benchmark
Selic rate by 525 basis points to a record low of 7.25 percent,
more than any Group of 20 nation.  Recent growth figures have been “very frustrating” and have
given unions pause for thought in pushing for large raises in the
second half of the year, said Luiz Edmundo Prestes Rosa, education
director at the  Brazilian Human Resources Association , a group of
personnel professionals and companies that follow labor market
trends.  In the first half of the year, 96.5 percent of the employees
that negotiated their wages got increases above the national
consumer price index, according to a survey published in August by
Dieese, a trade union research institute. That was the highest
level since 1996, when Dieese started the research.  The unions “in the second semester will be more realistic
than in the first semester,” Rosa said by phone on Oct. 24 from
Sao Paulo. “They are not going to be asking for huge increases as
compared to the first semester.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Boston  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 