-- BrightSource Approved for Two of Five California Solar Contracts
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-10-25T21:49:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/brightsource-approved-for-two-of-five-california-solar-contracts.html
California approved today two
proposed power-purchase agreements for  BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE) 
solar projects and rejected three that regulators said were too
expensive.  The California Public Utilities Commission approved
unanimously the Oakland, California-based solar company’s deals
to sell power to  Edison International (EIX)  from its Rio Mesa 2 and
Sonoran West projects, and denied proposals for its Rio Mesa 1
and Siberia 1 and 2 plants.  BrightSource develops solar-thermal systems, which focus
the sun’s energy to heat a boiler and drive a steam turbine. The
technology generally is more expensive than photovoltaic panels,
the most common solar system, and regulators said the projects
they approved included capabilities, such as storage, that
panels can’t provide.  “Storage significantly improves the value” of solar-
thermal systems, CPUC President  Michael Peevey  said at today’s
meeting. “Ratepayers’ long-term interest will be best served in
my view by beginning to invest now in advanced technologies.”  The Sonoran West project in Riverside County is expected to
begin delivering power to Southern California Edison in 2017,
according to a commission  filing . It features a vat of molten
salt that retains heat and lets the system generate electricity
for several hours after the sun has set.  ‘Necessary Precursor’  Rio Mesa 2, also in Riverside County, doesn’t have storage
and was approved because it includes technical advances that are
considered “a necessary precursor” to developing solar-thermal
systems that do use molten salt, Peevey said. It’s expected to
be complete in 2015.  Energy storage will be necessary to meet  California ’s goal
of getting 33 percent of its energy from renewable sources by
2020, commissioner Michel Florio said.  “The Sonoran West project gives us this extremely valuable
technology that is really what we’re going to need in the
future,” Florio said.  The CPUC rejected the Rio Mesa 1 contract because it
“compares poorly on price and value,” regulators said. The
Siberia 1 and 2 projects included storage and were denied due to
“uncertainty regarding transmission availability” that would
require costly upgrades. The proposed electricity prices that
the utility would pay for power weren’t disclosed.  Rio Mesa “will continue to move forward as planned,”
Kristin Hunter, a BrightSource spokeswoman, said today by e-
mail. “The Siberia project will remain a part of BrightSource’s
90,000 acre site portfolio.”  Edison International’s Southern California Edison utility
has agreed to buy about one-third of the output from
BrightSource’s 377-megawatt Ivanpah project in San Bernardino
County, which is almost 60 percent complete.  BrightSource has seven additional contracts with  PG&E
Corp. (PCG) ’s Pacific Gas & Electric utility to deliver 1,310
megawatts of capacity from multiple projects, including about
two-thirds of Ivanpah’s output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  