-- German Bunds Fall as Greece, Portugal Progress Damps Safety Bid
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-10-25T16:05:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/bunds-fall-for-first-time-in-3-days-before-money-supply-report.html
German  government bonds  declined,
pushing 10-year yields to the highest level in five weeks, as
speculation  Greece  will get additional funding damped demand for
the region’s safest assets.  Bunds dropped for the first time in three days after the
 International Monetary Fund  completed its latest review of
 Portugal ’s economic program yesterday, effectively freeing up
1.5 billion euros ($1.94 billion) of aid for disbursement.
Spanish bonds fell as the government said it will extend its
rescue of cash-strapped regions next year, as Andalusia called
for help raising funds and the region of the capital  Madrid 
canceled a debt sale.  “Risk markets have stabilized after the recent selloff,
dampening the safe-haven bid for core government bonds,” said
 Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital
Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “Portugal has gained its latest
tranche of funding whilst Greece seems to be closer to an
agreement on fiscal and structural reforms, increasing the
likelihood of more funding.”  Germany ’s  10-year yield  rose three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 1.58 percent at 5 p.m. in  London  after
climbing to 1.66 percent on Oct. 18, the highest level since
Sept. 19. The 1.5 percent bond due in September 2022 fell 0.24,
or 2.40 euros per 1,000-euro face amount, to 99.25.  Greece will get a loan of as much as 20 billion euros to
supplement its second rescue package, Handelsblatt reported,
citing a Memorandum of Understanding from the so-called troika
of the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
IMF. The loan plan allows Greece an extra two years until 2016
to meet its deficit target, the German newspaper said.  ‘Issues Remain’  “Issues remain to be ironed out before we can” conclude a
staff-level agreement between Greece and the troika, EU
spokesman Simon O’Connor said in an e-mailed statement.  The IMF’s review of Portugal was the fifth in a program
that is backed by a three-year loan of 28.2 billion euros. The
executive board’s approval brings total IMF disbursements to the
country to 21.8 billion euros.  Bunds also dropped along with Treasuries and U.K. gilts
after reports showed U.S. durable goods orders increased last
month and Britain posted its strongest growth in five years in
the third quarter.  The  Treasury 10-year yield  climbed two basis points to 1.81
percent, and similar-maturity U.K. yields jumped six basis
points to 1.91 percent.  Spanish Treasury  The Spanish Treasury will sell debt to finance regions that
ask for assistance next year, according to a spokesman for the
Economy Ministry who asked not to be named in line with policy.
Details need to be worked out for the program, which will add to
the planned 207 billion euros of 2013 gross issuance, the
spokesman said.  Spain’s central government has already bailed out the
regions with more than 40 billion euros this year as most of the
17 states were locked out of public debt markets.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year bond  climbed five basis points
to 5.62 percent.  Greek  10-year yields  rose nine basis points to 17.10
percent after falling to 16.22 percent on Oct. 22, the lowest
level since the nation’s debt was restructured in March. The
price of the 2 percent bond maturing in February 2023 was at
32.62 percent of face value.  Still Value  There’s still value in Greek bonds, although they aren’t
for the fainthearted, said  Padhraic Garvey , head of developed
markets debt strategy at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam. The nation’s
10-year bond may increase in price by 25 percent before it
begins to “stall out,” he said.  The Portuguese 10-year bond yield was little changed at
7.84 percent.  Volatility on German bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of  Austria , according to
measures of 10-year or equivalent-maturity debt, the spread
between two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  German bonds returned 2.6 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Portuguese
securities advanced 50 percent, while Italy’s rose 17 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  