-- California Probes Shutdown of Edison Nuclear Plant
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-10-25T19:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/california-probes-shutdown-of-edison-nuclear-plant.html
The  California  Public Utilities
Commission voted to open an investigation into the causes and
costs of the shutdown of  Edison International (EIX) ’s San Onofre
nuclear power plant in Southern California.  The commission voted 5-0 today to determine if customers
should be charged for repairs and other expenses related to San
Onofre, which has been shut since January after investigators
found unusual wear on steam generator tubes. The commission will
also determine the cost-effectiveness of repairing or replacing
the generators.  The regulator “realizes the importance of the San Onofre
nuclear plant to the state of California and the consequences of
the problems with the plant for ratepayers and for all
affected,” Michael R. Peevey, president of the commission, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We will look very critically at the
utilities’ financial responsibility for the prolonged outage and
who should bear those costs.”  Without the nuclear plant, reliable power for  San Diego  and
 Los Angeles  “is at risk” when demand is high, Neil Millar, an
executive director of the California Independent System
Operator, said in  March . The shutdown has cost Rosemead,
California-based Edison $165 million in inspection, repair and
replacement power expenses through June 30, according to a July
presentation to investors.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission has determined that
faulty computer modeling and manufacturing issues contributed to
tube wear at the plant, located about 60 miles (97 kilometers)
south of Los Angeles.  Restart Plan  Edison, which owns 78.2 percent of San Onofre and operates
the plant, needs permission from federal regulators to resume
power output from the two units, capable of generating 2,200
megawatts of electricity. The company proposed on Oct. 4 to run
Unit 2 at reduced power for five months, while Unit 3 remains
shut for further study.  Damage is more extensive at its Unit 3 reactor, where a
pipe ruptured and released trace amounts of radioactive steam in
January.  Sempra Energy (SRE)  owns 20 percent of the plant and the city of
Riverside, California, owns the remaining 1.8 percent.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. (7011)  built the steam
generators, which were installed in Unit 2 in January 2010 and
Unit 3 in January 2011 at a cost of $671 million. Steam
generators are massive radiator-like assemblies that transfer
heat from the reactor to power-generating turbines.  Larry Agran, a council member for  Irvine , California, said
he supports the “safe, timely retirement” of San Onofre. “The
people of Southern California are justifiably worried,” Agran
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  