-- Canadian Tire Seeks Savings Ahead of Target Arrival
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-10-25T20:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/canadian-tire-seeks-savings-ahead-of-target-arrival.html
Canadian Tire Corp. Ltd. (CTC/A) , the
country’s largest auto-parts and sporting-goods retailer, is
planning to wring savings in contract talks with store dealers
as competition looms from U.S. discount chain  Target Corp. (TGT)   The Toronto-based company is negotiating with its  489 
franchisees before the current accord expires on July 1, 2014,
and as Target sets to open its first stores in Canada next year.
Canadian Tire, which says 50 percent of Canadians shop in its
stores each month, declined to discuss details of the talks or
the existing contract.  Operating costs equaled 31 percent of Canadian Tire’s sales
in 2011, compared with 20 percent for  Minneapolis , Minnesota-
based Target and 19 percent for Bentonville, Arkansas-based  Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , Mark Petrie, an analyst at CIBC World Markets,
wrote in a note Oct. 9.  “Looking at 2011, we estimate that the gap to Wal-Mart and
Target would have been roughly C$950 million in operating
expenses,” for Canadian Tire, according to Petrie.  Efficiency is going to be a bigger and bigger topic for the
Canadian retailer, which sells auto parts, small appliances,
hardware and sporting goods, Petrie said in a telephone
interview from Toronto.  “Canadian Tire has significant opportunities in terms of
improving its operating efficiency,” and a renegotiated dealer
contract is among them, Petrie said.  Target’s northern expansion will reduce Canadian Tire’s
sales by 1 percent as its faces increased competition in
housewares, apparel and seasonal merchandise, Jim Durran, a
Barclays Plc analyst wrote in an Oct. 1 note.  Supply Chain  Canadian Tire, which has 1,700 retail and gasoline outlets
across the country, disagrees with Petrie’s estimate, said Chief
Financial Officer Dean McCann. Canadian Tire’s operating costs
are not comparable to Target and Wal-Mart because the latter two
include grocery segments and are U.S. companies, he said.
Against comparable Canadian rivals, McCann said he’s “very
comfortable” with Canadian Tire’s performance.  Negotiations with dealers on supply chain and
administration could result in savings, McCann said. Those “are
things, as a team -- between the corporation and the dealers --
we can work together to reduce costs,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Canadian Tire acts as a wholesaler to dealers, who order
products they think will sell best. Stores at Wal-Mart, the
world’s largest retailer, and Target are controlled by the
corporation.  Dealer Input  The structure means Canadian Tire consults with dealer
committees for major decisions, making it harder to remove
underperforming dealers, and provides an incentive for dealers
to order a surplus of sale merchandise and sell the extra at
regular price after the sale ends. That increases margins at the
company’s expense, Petrie said in his note.  If the dealers allowed the company to streamline its
supply-chain by giving up some control, Canadian Tire could
reduce costs, Petrie wrote.  McCann said Canadian Tire won’t reduce dealer autonomy
because it’s an advantage having an independent entrepreneur
with knowledge of the local market making decisions for each
store.  “Any perceived inefficiency is far outweighed by the
opportunities, and the proof is in the pudding, we’re still
here,” he said. “It’s been extraordinarily effective.”  Canadian Tire will look for cost savings in the new
contract, McCann said. There are already mechanisms for removing
underperforming dealers, he said.  Ron Baugh, executive director of the Canadian Tire Dealers’
Association, referred questions on the negotiations to the
company.  Cost Savings  The  last  negotiation in 2007 produced as much as $20
million in extra pretax income that the company projected will
grow to as much as C$100 million by 2014, according to a
Canadian Tire statement at the time. The company didn’t disclose
the source of the extra income.  “One of the advantages of Canadian Tire has been the very
strong dealer organization in that the dealers have a
proprietary interest in their store,” said Stephen Jarislowsky,
chief executive officer of Jarislowsky Fraser Ltd., the largest
owner of Canadian Tire’s non-voting Class A shares. “You can’t
piss off your dealers but you also have to be on top of the
pricing.”  Canadian Tire had average revenue  growth  of 20 percent in
the last four quarters and reported about C$3 billion in revenue
in the second quarter, for a profit of C$134 million, or C$1.63
a share. Annual revenue growth at Canadian Tire will slow to 1.5
percent in 2013 after Target’s arrival, compared with projected
growth of 9.9 percent this year, according to a survey of
analysts by Bloomberg News.  Stock Performance  Canadian Tire rose 1.5 percent to C$71.56 at 4:20 p.m.
today in Toronto. The  shares  have gained 8.6 percent this year
through yesterday, lagging the 13 percent rise in the Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Consumer Discretionary Index. Three-month implied
 volatility,  a measure of expected volatility in the stock over
the next three months, has risen to about 19 percent from a low
of 15 percent on Aug. 24.  About 60 percent of Canadian Tire’s voting shares are
controlled by Martha Billes, daughter of A.J. Billes, who
founded the company with his brother in 1922 in Toronto, and her
son Owen, the company said in its March 15  proxy circular .  Canadian Tire Corporation Dealer Holdings Ltd., a unit
separate from the company which manages dealers’ shares, owns
20.5 percent of the voting stock, the circular said.  Store Expansion  Both Target and Wal-Mart are eroding the advantages of the
dealer system as they use more precise market research to build
knowledge of individual stores, and adjust pricing accordingly,
said Alex Arifuzzaman, a partner at Toronto-based retail
consulting firm InterStratics Consultants Inc. and a former
financial analyst at Canadian Tire.  When Wal-Mart first entered  Canada  in 1994, Canadian Tire
maintained revenue growth by adding stores, boosting total
retail square footage to 30 million by June of this year from
7.1 million, Canadian Tire said. That avenue won’t be available
this time, said Arifuzzaman.  “In the past they were able to address the increased
competition by growth, by increasing the store network, making
the pie bigger for Canadian Tire,” he said. “But now that is
not the case, growth is not at the level it was in the past, so
that’s the only way they can do it, through operational cost
savings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  