-- Canada August Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-10-25T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/canada-august-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s employment, earnings, and hours report for August
released by  Statistics Canada .  In August, average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll
employees were $907.19, up 0.4% from the previous month. On a
year-over-year basis, earnings increased 3.6%.  The 3.6% earnings’ increase during the 12 months to August
reflects a number of factors, including wage growth, changes in
the composition of employment by industry, occupation and level
of job experience, as well as average hours worked per week. In
August, non-farm payroll employees worked an average of 33.1
hours per week, up from 33.0 the month before and 32.9 in August
2011.  Average weekly earnings by sector  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings outpaced
the national average of 3.6% in three of the largest industrial
sectors: professional, scientific and technical services;
accommodation and food services; and construction. Earnings in
administrative and support services declined between August 2011
and August 2012.  Weekly earnings in professional, scientific and technical
services rose 7.4% to $1,273.60, with gains in almost all
industries within the sector.  Weekly earnings in accommodation and food services
increased 5.0% to $374.54 in the 12 months to August. Growth was
most notable in special food services, limited-service eating
places and traveller accommodation. Payroll earnings in this
sector were the lowest among all sectors, partly because it had
the lowest weekly hours.  In construction, weekly earnings rose 4.4% to $1,144.43,
with notable growth in non-residential building construction;
highway, street and bridge construction; and building finishing
contracting.  Average weekly earnings in administrative and support
services declined 3.2% to $724.03, mostly in employment services.  Average weekly earnings up in every province  Average weekly earnings of non-farm payroll employees
increased in every province in the 12 months to August. Growth
was notably above the national average in Newfoundland and
Labrador and Saskatchewan.  In Newfoundland and Labrador, average weekly earnings were
$942.31 in August, up 8.1% from 12 months earlier. This was the
third consecutive year-over-year increase above 6%. Weekly
earnings in the province are among the highest in the country.  In Saskatchewan, average weekly earnings increased 6.1% in
the 12 months to August, to $938.57, and were also among the
highest in the country. Earnings in the province have been
higher than the national average since August 2011.  Average weekly earnings in Prince  Edward Island  were
$761.13 in August, up 5.0% compared with 12 months earlier.
Year-over-year increases in earnings for this province have been
at or above the national average since the start of 2012.  In  Quebec , average weekly earnings amounted to $829.55 in
August, up 4.5% from 12 months earlier.  Average weekly earnings remained the highest of all
provinces in  Alberta , at $1,084.26 in August. On a year-over-
year basis, earnings increased 3.2% in the province, just under
the national average.  Weekly earnings in Ontario grew 3.0% to $919.05, the
fourth-highest earnings level in Canada. Year-over-year growth
in Ontario has been below the national average since October
2010.  Non-farm payroll employment by sector  Total non-farm payroll employment rose by 45,500 between
July and August, the sixth consecutive monthly increase.  In August, payroll employment increased in most sectors,
including educational services; public administration;
manufacturing; health care and social assistance; and mining,
quarrying and oil and gas extraction.  On a year-over-year basis, payroll employment rose by
316,000 (+2.1%), with most of these gains occurring since
February 2012 (+285,100).  Among all sectors, mining, quarrying, and oil and gas
extraction continued to post the highest 12-month growth rate in
payroll employment, at 10.7% in August. It was followed by
construction (+5.3%); accommodation and food services (+3.2%);
professional, scientific and technical services (+2.7%); and
transportation and warehousing (+2.7%).  Note to readers  The Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH) is a
business census of non-farm payroll employees. Its key objective
is to provide a monthly portrait of the level of earnings, the
number of jobs and hours worked by detailed industry at the
national, provincial and territorial level.  Statistics Canada also produces employment estimates from
its monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a household
survey, the main objective of which is to divide the working-age
population into three mutually exclusive groups: the employed
(including the self-employed), unemployed and not in the labour
force. This survey is the official source for the  unemployment
rate  and collects data on the socio-demographic characteristics
of all those in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological differences,
estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do differ from time to
time. However, the trends in the data are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11-010-x/2010003/part -
partie3-eng.htm) .  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and
salaried employees, as well as the “other employees” category,
which includes piece-rate and commission-only employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried
employees only and exclude businesses that could not be
classified to a North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS) code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude
businesses that could not be classified to a NAICS code.
Earnings data are based on gross payroll before source
deductions.  Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing total
weekly earnings by the number of employees.  With each release, data for the current reference month are
subject to revision. Data have been revised for the previous
month. Users are encouraged to request and use the most up-to-
date data for each month.  Data on the education sector  Changes in payroll employment in education during the
summer months can be affected by changes in payment schedules
and school-year calendars. Month-to-month changes in payroll
employment should therefore be interpreted with caution, and
more attention given to long-term trends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  