-- Candidates Wisely Turn to Home Front in Foreign Policy Debate
-- B y   R o m e s h   R a t n e s a r
-- 2012-10-25T05:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/candidates-wisely-turn-to-home-front-in-foreign-policy-debate.html
It took barely half an hour for
President  Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney  to change the subject of
their final debate from foreign to domestic policy.  Responding to moderator Bob Schieffer’s question -- “What
is America’s role in the world?” -- the candidates launched
into their respective plans for rebuilding the  U.S. economy .
Obama talked about creating manufacturing jobs; Romney vowed to
support entrepreneurs. Then they sparred over the merits of
hiring more public school teachers.  “Let me get back to foreign policy,” Schieffer
interrupted. The candidates ignored him, spending a few more
minutes debating whether Romney deserved credit for improving
student test scores as governor of  Massachusetts .  Voters expecting a focused discussion on matters of war and
peace might have been confused by the frequent detours into
domestic policy,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in its Oct. 29
issue. Yet the very assumption that overseas challenges are
distinct from those at home is outdated. In a global economy,
every national priority, from the stability of the financial
system to the safety of the  food supply , is influenced by what
happens beyond America’s borders.  The discussion of domestic issues in the context of
national security is long overdue.  “Both candidates, in their own way, made the point that we
need to look to ourselves to restore, repair and replenish the
foundations of American power,” said  Richard Haass , president
of the  Council on Foreign Relations .  Dynamic Economy  During the 20th century, the U.S. rise to global dominance
was driven less by its military strength than by the dynamism of
its economy, according to Patrick Doherty, director of the Smart
Strategy Initiative at the  New America Foundation  in  Washington .  “The key to America’s victories in World War II and the
 Cold War  is that we had our economy do the heavy lifting,”
Doherty said. “That’s always been the secret of American
strategic success.”  That strategic edge has eroded, however, because of a
decade of middling growth and ballooning deficits -- the result
of the 2008 financial crisis, huge increases in domestic
spending, and the costs of two wars.  “The cumulative effect is a much worse, far more
vulnerable position than we’ve ever had before,” said Haass,
whose latest book, “ Foreign Policy  Begins at Home,” is
scheduled to come out in the spring. “We’re strained in every
area. When you look at our financial capital, physical capital,
and human capital, all three are not where they need to be.”  National Debt  That’s why the most critical national security test facing
the next president isn’t terrorism, which Obama picked during
the Oct. 22 debate, or  Iran , as Romney said. Instead, the focus
should be on the $16.2 trillion  national debt , more than 33
percent of which is foreign-owned, with China alone holding
$1.15 trillion.  Haass said that the U.S. “would be constrained big time if
markets suddenly move against us” and force the country to pay
higher  interest rates  on its debt. That would precipitate
“massive and indiscriminate” cuts in military spending that
could compromise national security. Reaching a comprehensive,
bipartisan deal on deficit-reduction is thus essential for
preserving America’s strategic flexibility.  Debt is one area where domestic trends will influence
foreign policy. Energy is another. As  Daniel Yergin , chairman of
IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates, wrote in the Wall
Street Journal on Oct. 23, U.S. oil production has increased by
25 percent since 2008, the highest rate of growth in the world.
That has limited the spike in global  oil prices  caused by lower
Iranian supply, allowing for tougher international sanctions
that could slow the mullahs’ path to a nuclear bomb.  Education System  The biggest question for U.S. policy makers will be whether
they can recalibrate domestic priorities fast enough to catch up
to a changing world. Nowhere is the challenge more daunting than
in the American public education system.  A Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force
report, released in March, concluded that U.S. schools “are not
equipping the majority of students to effectively participate in
an increasingly fast-paced and interdependent global society.”  The report found that only 4.5 percent of U.S. college
students graduate with engineering degrees; in  China , 33 percent
do. Beyond hurting American economic competitiveness, the
knowledge gap is affecting the ability of the U.S. to defend
itself.  Low Scores  Among eligible high school students, 30 percent score too
low on the Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery to qualify
for military service. The U.S. diplomatic and intelligence
services report a shortage of applicants with the language and
analytical skills needed to serve in key posts around the world.  Even as Defense Secretary Leon Panetta warns that a cyber-
attack “could be as destructive as the terrorist attack on
9/11,” the U.S. education system isn’t giving students the
technical knowledge to deal with it. According to the council’s
task force, “The  United States  is arguably unprepared to mount
a strong defense against [a cyber-attack], partly because there
are not enough people with the kind of technological expertise
needed to do so.”  In that light, it’s encouraging that the presidential
candidates spent so much time discussing class sizes, test
scores and teachers during the foreign policy debate. America’s
role in the world will be determined by solutions the country’s
leaders come up with to the biggest domestic crises, such as
education and the national debt. What those solutions will be,
of course, remains very much up in the air. That’s what
elections are for.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romesh Ratnesar in  New York  at 
 rratnesar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  