-- Candidates Swim to Sicily, Give Up Sex in Regional Vote
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-10-26T15:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/candidates-swim-to-sicily-in-post-monti-preview.html
Italian voters, weary of funding
scandals and austerity, are getting new-look politicians who aim
to please by swimming to Sicily and renouncing sex in a  regional
election  that may shape Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s future.  The theatrics around Sicily’s Oct. 28 vote showcase the
outsiders and establishment forces vying to replace Monti in
national polls due by April. Mainland Italians will watch to see
if Beppe Grillo, who swam the 2.2 miles to the island of Sicily,
can turn his anti-austerity populism into votes. Pier Luigi Bersani, the frontrunner in the national race, is backing an
openly gay former mayor who vowed chastity if he wins.  “It’s a dress rehearsal,” said  James Walston , a politics
professor at Rome’s American University. “It will give us a
first barometer reading on the state of the parties.”  Political power in Italy is up for grabs as the dominant
parties of the last two decades struggle to shake the taint of
corruption, recession and Monti’s tax increases. Newer voices
like Grillo, a former comic turned political gadfly, are using
the race in Sicily to convince policymakers at the national and
European levels that voters are poised to repudiate  austerity .  “If Sicily changes,  Italy  changes,” Grillo said on his
blog. “And then, perhaps, Europe changes,” he wrote in English
in the  post , which was addressed to “Sicilians throughout the
world.”  Grillo’s Gains  Grillo’s 5 Star Movement will be the biggest opposition
party on the Sicilian ballot, and a showing of more than 10
percent should be considered a success, said Vincenzo Emanuele,
a political  researcher  at Luiss University in Rome.  “It took me six months of training, but in the end I
managed to swim across the strait of Messina in 15 minutes less
than what it takes by ferry,” Grillo, 64, said last night at a
rally in  Palermo  before thousands of supporters. He said 5 Star
has become Sicily’s biggest political force.  The country’s two main parties are running against each
other in the regional contest, resuming a rivalry that was
interrupted in November when the People of Liberty and the
 Democratic Party  came together to back Monti.  There has been little polling in Sicily, though a survey
published today by the Trieste-based SWG Institute of national
voting preferences put Grillo on 22 percent. That puts 5 Star
second only to the Democratic Party, on 25.4 percent, and ahead
of People of Liberty, which got 15 percent.  Hung Parliament  That kind of showing could lead to a hung parliament in
Sicily, and may force former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
People of Liberty Party and Bersani’s Democratic Party to join
forces again. Such an outcome may increase the chances of Monti
serving a second term should the national vote produce similar
political gridlock that would necessitate another grand
coalition.  “Political fragmentation means that it’s certainly
possible to have an hung parliament in Sicily,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Nomura International Plc in London.
“For the same reasons, this may happen again in the national
elections next year. Should that be the case, a hung parliament
in Rome would pave the way to a broad coalition led by a
technocrat, Monti himself or someone else.”  ‘Dangerous to Confidence’  Monti, 69, an apolitical caretaker, isn’t supporting a
candidate in Sicily and won’t compete in the national elections.
Still, the former university president and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  adviser has said he would be available to serve as premier
again after the national vote and under his tenure the yield on
the country’s benchmark 10-year bond yield has fallen more than
200 basis points to 4.895 percent.  “Any significant move toward anti-austerity or non-
conventional political forces such as Grillo could be dangerous
for market confidence, and increase nerves ahead of the April
general election,” said Biagio Lapolla, a rate strategist at
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in  London .  In a showing of opposition to the Italian government’s
austerity drive, thousands of protesters are expected to attend
a  rally  in Rome tomorrow organized by unions. A march in the
capital’s center branded ’No Monti Day’ takes place about a year
after a demonstration in Rome against Berlusconi government
policies turned violent with 30 police and 20 protesters
injured.  ‘Farewell to Sex’  Back in Sicily, the party of Berlusconi, who this week said
he wouldn’t run for prime minister in the national election, is
seeking to appeal to voters with former parliamentarian Nello
Musumeci. Bersani, of the center-left, tapped Rosario Crocetta,
who won fame as the mafia-fighting mayor of Gela in the south of
Sicily. Crocetta also has the backing of a centrist party that
has opposed same-sex unions.  “If I were to become Sicily’s president, I would say
farewell to sex,” Crocetta said in an Aug. 20  interview  with
news website KlausCondicio. “I will consider myself married to
my region and its inhabitants.”  The campaign is taking place in the country’s poorest
region, where the  jobless rate  is almost twice the national
average of 10.6 percent and where organized crime saps economic
growth. The early election was called after the resignation of
regional President Raffaele Lombardo, who was indicted for
alleged links with the Sicilian Mafia.  Voting opens at 8 a.m. with polls closing at 10 p.m.
Results will not be available until Oct. 29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net 
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  