-- Canon Reduces Forecasts as Smartphones Start Replacing Cameras
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-10-25T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/canon-reduces-forecasts-as-smartphones-start-replacing-cameras.html
Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest
camera maker, cut its full-year  profit  and sales forecasts as
consumers’ penchant for using smartphones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone to click pictures hurt demand for the company’s products.  Canon lowered its sales forecast for Powershot, Ixus and
other  compact models  by 9.5 percent to 19 million units, and for
professional-grade EOS models by 4.3 percent to 8.8 million, the
company said in a statement yesterday. The profit forecast was
cut 6.4 percent to 234 billion yen ($2.9 billion) as economic
turmoil in  Europe  and slowing demand in  emerging markets  also
hurt demand, Tokyo-based Canon said.  Chief Executive Officer Fujio Mitarai, 77, has slashed
compact-camera sales forecast twice since taking over the top
job in March as Apple and  Samsung Electronics Inc. (005930)  unveiled
phones that can take high-definition photos and videos. Canon,
 Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Nikon Corp. (7731)  are introducing new products to win
back customers in a segment that’s projected to have the worst
demand since 2009.  “Camera sales are slowing down and a forecast cut was
inevitable,” said Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Securities
Co. in  Tokyo . “With the yen’s gain and uncertainties over
economies, it’s hard to foresee Canon’s earnings improving going
forward.”  Global camera sales are expected to fall 4.3 percent this
year to 115.2 million units, according to market researcher IHS.
Industrywide camera shipments fell 25 percent in August from a
year earlier, according to the  Camera & Imaging Products
Association  in Tokyo.  Surging Smartphones  By comparison, global sales of smartphones -- devices that
can be used to shoot high-definition videos, read books, play
movies and surf the Internet -- rose 32 percent to 146.1 million
units in the second quarter, according to market researcher
 Strategy Analytics .  “We lowered our camera sales projection because of slower
economic growth and an increasing use of smartphones that’s
eroding demand,” Chief Financial Officer Toshizo Tanaka told
reporters in Tokyo yesterday.  Canon’s estimate for  full-year profit  lagged behind the 239
billion-yen average of 22 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The company yesterday also reported third-quarter
profit of 50.1 billion yen,  compared with  the 55.5 billion-yen
average of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
of 799.9 billion yen in the quarter also trailed analyst
estimates for 899.5 billion yen.  Apple, Nokia  Companywide sales this year may be 3.53 trillion yen, lower
than the previous estimate for 3.69 trillion yen, Canon said.
Operating profit may be 356 billion yen, down from an earlier
estimate for 390 billion yen.  The shares  rose 2.2 percent to 2,645 yen in Tokyo yesterday,
before the earnings announcement. The stock has declined 22
percent this year. In contrast, shares of Samsung, the world’s
biggest maker of smartphones, have advanced 25 percent, while
Apple, the second-biggest maker, has gained  52 percent .  Apple’s new  iPhone 5  -- with an 8-megapixel camera sensor
and backside illumination -- has software that lets consumers
take panoramic pictures. Last month,  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  unveiled a phone
with a spring-mounted camera for steadier pictures. In February,
the Espoo, Finland-based company introduced a phone that has a
41-megapixel camera.  Anti-Japan Protests  Camera makers are fighting back.  Canon’s first mirrorless model, the EOS M, became available
in  Japan  last month, following the introduction of products with
similar technology by Nikon and Sony. The mirrorless cameras are
smaller than professional models yet capture similar-quality
images with the ease of a point-and-shoot model.  The  European debt crisis  and anti-Japan protests in  China 
also are affecting demand. A stronger yen is hurting repatriated
earnings of a company that gets 80 percent of its revenue from
 overseas .  “The global economy remains weak in the fourth quarter and
concerns are increasing about a slowdown,” Tanaka said.
“Especially for Europe and China, we cannot foresee what will
happen.”  A dispute over islands in the  East China Sea  claimed by
both countries sparked anti-Japan protests in China last month,
disrupting local output by Japanese manufacturers such as Canon
and reducing demand for their products in the world’s second-
largest economy. China and Japan’s worst diplomatic crisis since
2005 was triggered by Japan’s purchase of the islands.  Printers, Copiers  Canon was among the Japanese companies that halted
production in China in September as demonstrators smashed stores
and set factories on fire. Canon has restarted its three
affected factories.  About a quarter of the cut in Canon’s annual sales of
cameras are due to risks in China, Tanaka said.  “Our forecasts are based on the worst-case scenario that
the China situation will continue until the end of the year,”
he said.  Worldwide printer and copier shipments declined 8.4 percent
in the second quarter from a year earlier, according to the
 International Data Corporation .  Canon’s office-equipment sales fell 13 percent to 409.4
billion yen in the third quarter, and imaging-system sales fell
to 322.1 billion yen from 347.4 billion yen in the same period,
the company said.  Canon based its full-year forecasts on exchange rates of 78
yen to the dollar and 100 yen to the euro.  The yen gained 2.4 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the
third quarter. Each 1-yen gain in the Japanese currency against
the dollar would erode second-half operating profit by about 5.3
billion yen, Canon said in July.  “Canon is vulnerable to an economic cycle and currency,”
said  Naoki Fujiwara , a chief  fund manager  at Shinkin Asset
Management Co. “Whether it can bottom from this quarter or
continue its slump depends on Europe and China.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  