-- CEOs Expand Ranks of Support for U.S. Budget Deficit Cut
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-10-25T15:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/ceos-expand-ranks-of-support-for-u-s-budget-deficit-cut.html
More than 80 chief executive
officers of U.S. companies, including  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) ,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Loews Corp. (L) , are now supporting a campaign
to reduce U.S. federal deficits through spending cuts and tax
increases.  The Campaign to Fix the Debt announced its expanded list of
CEO support today. Among the campaign’s leaders are Erskine Bowles and Alan Simpson, the co-chairmen of President Barack Obama’s 2010 fiscal commission.  “What we’re trying to do is drive support for the radical
middle,” David Cote, CEO of  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , said
on a conference call with reporters.  Congress has been deadlocked over deficit reduction. Obama
wants a plan that combines some changes to spending programs
with higher taxes on top earners. Republicans want cuts to
entitlement programs and oppose tax increases.  “They are likely to be relatively successful in setting
the terms of the discussion,” said  Michael Linden , director of
tax and budget policy at the Center for American Progress, a
Washington group typically aligned with Democrats. “No amount
of CEO pressure or any pressure, frankly, from sort of outside
groups is going to make a difference if Republican congressional
members simply won’t agree to new revenue.”  The CEOs contend that a long-term deficit reduction deal
would encourage economic growth and that today’s uncertainty is
limiting the U.S. economy.  “It’s stopping people from hiring,” said George Paz,
president and chief executive officer of Express Scripts Holding
Co. “It’s stopping the formation of new capital and new
businesses.”  Taxes, Entitlements  The principles of the $30 million campaign call for a mix
of policies like the ones that the Simpson-Bowles commission
leaders supported -- changes to entitlement programs and a tax
code overhaul that would reduce rates and bring in more revenue
from individuals. The changes would total about $4 trillion over
the next decade, enough to begin reducing the debt as a share of
the economy.  That approach is at odds with some Democrats who said the
Simpson-Bowles cuts go too far. It also runs counter to many
Republicans, including presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who
say tax increases should have no part in a deficit-reduction
package.  Other companies with chief executives participating in the
group include  Merck & Co Inc. (MRK) ,  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Bank of America
Corp.   The group says it wants Congress to set up a framework for
long-term deficit reduction after the Nov. 6 election as it
addresses the so-called fiscal cliff. If Congress doesn’t act,
taxes will go up and spending will be cut in January, probably
leading to a recession, according to the Congressional Budget
Office.  “It’s going to get harder as it gets more specific for
everybody involved,” said Maya MacGuineas, president of the
bipartisan Committee for a Responsible  Federal Budget , who is
leading the effort.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  