-- CFTC Said to Allow More Swaps Trading Via Phone in Final Rule
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-10-25T16:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/cftc-said-to-allow-more-swaps-trading-via-phone-in-final-rule.html
The Commodity Futures Trading
Commission will allow more swaps to be traded over the phone
than initially indicated under proposed Dodd-Frank Act reforms,
according to people familiar with the matter.  Chairman  Gary Gensler  outlined the changes in a meeting two
days ago in  New York  with executives of firms that want to
create regulated entities allowed to trade swaps, known as swap
execution facilities, or SEFs, according to two people who
attended.  The details of what will be allowed are still being worked
out for the final draft rule, which is expected to be shown to
the four other CFTC commissioners today, according to one of the
people, who asked not to be named because the discussions are
private.  The change in phone trading contrasts with the proposal
 written  in the Federal Register in January 2011, which said that
“entities offering the following services do not comply with
the statutory definition of a SEF: one-to-one voice services for
the execution or trading of swaps (other than for the execution
of block trades).”  Trades in interest-rate, credit-default and other types of
swaps historically have been done over the phone in negotiations
between banks and their customers. Gensler, with the backing of
Congress through the Dodd Frank reforms passed in 2010, has made
electronic trading of the instruments a central feature of
regulation in a market with $648 trillion of contracts
outstanding.  Reconciling Rules  David Gary, a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment.  Expanded phone trading would be a victory for inter-dealer
brokers who facilitate transactions between banks. The firms,
which use a combination of phone and computer trading to match
buyers and sellers, lobbied the CFTC through the Wholesale
Market Brokers Association, Americas to allow flexible methods
of trading.  The association’s members include ICAP Plc, Tradition
Financial Services Inc., GFI Group Inc., BGC Partners Inc. and
Tullett Prebon Plc.  The CFTC’s proposed rule for SEFs allowed for so-called
request-for-quote systems in which swaps buyers and sellers are
required to ask at least five other participants for a price.
How that will be reconciled with the expanded phone trading is
one detail that still has to be worked out, said one of the
people at the meeting, which was held after the Securities
Industry and Financial Markets Association annual conference.  Firms that have said they want to create swap execution
facilities include the members of the inter-dealer brokers
association, Phoenix Partners Group LP, Javelin Capital Markets
LLC, Tradeweb LLC and Bloomberg LP, the parent company of
 Bloomberg News .  The so-called notional value of contracts in the market
doesn’t represent actual money that has changed hands and is
used to calculate periodic contract payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 