-- Cheerful Billionaire Peterffy Works to Topple Obama With Ad
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-25T21:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/cheerful-billionaire-peterffy-works-to-topple-obama-with-ad.html
It hardly counts as news anymore
when a billionaire starts fulminating about  Barack Obama . The
likes of the Koch brothers, Stephen Schwarzman and  Leon Cooperman  have already called the president all sorts of things,
Schwarzman even comparing his tax policies to the Nazi invasion
of  Poland . He later apologized.  What’s startling, then, about a television ad suggesting
Obama is a socialist whose policies stifle entrepreneurship is
that it’s not angry at all. It’s sort of a tear-jerker.  The ad, “Freedom to Succeed,” is the handiwork of Thomas
Peterffy, a 68-year-old émigré from socialist Hungary who
founded Interactive Brokers Group Inc., the world’s largest
online broker, and built a fortune of $7.6 billion, according to
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its Oct. 29 issue.  Peterffy narrates and appears in the ad, which intersperses
shots of him with scenes from  Hungary  during his childhood.  “I grew up in a socialist country, and I have seen what
that does to people,” he says solemnly, as images of poverty and
suffering flash by. “There is no hope, no freedom, no pride in
achievement. The nation became poorer and poorer.”  The ad is also striking because it essentially takes up the
plight of the poor, albeit from an unusual angle. Peterffy
argues that Obama makes a practice of “bad-mouthing success,”
which demoralizes American entrepreneurs, sapping their drive to
succeed and pay the taxes that support the less fortunate.  ‘47 Percent’  In its own odd way, the ad argues on behalf of the “47
percent,” not against them. So far, he’s spent $2.5 million to
air the ad on national cable networks. “By Election Day,” he
says, “I’ll spend $5 million to $10 million.”  Unlike the other political billionaires, Peterffy is
little-known in Republican circles. He also maintains a
cheerfulness even while inveighing against Obama and the
Democratic Party.  Asked what prompted his political awakening, he laughs and
says, in a thick accent, “The Democratic spokespeople!
Politicians have killed the entrepreneurial spirit in this
country.”  Peterffy is convinced Obama’s criticism of capitalists has
put the country on a path that leads inexorably to socialist
Hungary.  “It takes mojo to take the risk to start to grow a
business,” he says. “When you trash the leaders, they don’t
invest. I came here when I was 21. I’ve paid $1.9 billion of
taxes in my lifetime. And now I’m being told that I’m not paying
my fair share, that I’m playing by different rules.”  ‘Why Strive’?  He adds that he would be happy to pay a higher tax rate.
His complaint is that Obama and the Democrats care more about
equality of outcome than opportunity. “If all are equal, then
why strive?” he asks.  Peterffy has maxed out his donations to  Mitt Romney  and
will vote Republican next month, but he’s hardly a party
loyalist. He’s called himself “pro-choice” and “pro-
environment.”  Four years ago, he voted for the Libertarian candidate:
“What’s his name? I forgot.” He isn’t giving to any
super political action committee and says he didn’t consult with
the Romney campaign before cutting his own ad.  The response has been overwhelming, he says. “It’s been
wonderful,” he says, laughing. “Many people have written to me.
And do you know what? A lot of them said they were opening
accounts with Interactive Brokers. So it’s helping my business.”  He laughs again. “All is not bad.” 