-- Cheniere Considers 50% Expansion of LNG Plant at Sabine Pass
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-10-25T06:12:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/cheniere-considers-50-expansion-of-lng-plant-at-sabine-pass.html
Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) , the first
company to win approval to export gas from the continental U.S.,
is considering a 50 percent expansion of capacity at its Sabine
Pass terminal in  Louisiana  as LNG demand rises.  “When we marketed the project at Sabine Pass, clearly we
had more demand than we could satisfy,” Nicolas Zanen, the vice
president of trading at Cheniere, said in an interview in
Singapore today. “It makes sense to look at expanding to a
fifth and a sixth” train for liquefying gas, he said. No
timeline for enlarging the facility has been set, he said.  GAIL India Ltd. (GAIL)  and  BG Group Plc (BG/)  are among customers that
have agreed to buy liquefied natural gas from Sabine Pass. The
plant may increase export capacity to 27 million metric tons
from a designed 18 million ton, and first shipments are expected
in late-2015. Cheniere has also begun offering fuel for its
Corpus Christi, Texas, LNG project, Zanen said.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s biggest LNG-buying company,
agreed in January to buy LNG from Sabine Pass based on prices at
the Henry Hub, the delivery point for  New York  futures. The
contract may help the utility buy the fuel for 30 percent
cheaper than supplies from Asia, which are traditionally indexed
to oil, the state-owned South Korean company said in April.  Natural gas for November delivery fell 8.5 cents to settle
yesterday at $3.45 per million British thermal units on the New
York Mercantile Exchange. The futures are down 4.3 percent from
a year ago.  “Customers come to us and say they want to buy LNG from
the U.S., they want to buy based on Henry Hub,” Zanen said.
“We have a good idea of what the demand is like. The U.S. gas
price is very cheap, and they want to benefit from that. They
want to diversify as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  