-- Chile Echoes Brazil on Currency War as Unchecked Peso Surges
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-10-25T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/chile-echoes-brazil-on-currency-war-as-unchecked-peso-surges.html
Chile ’s ability to depreciate its
peso is limited as developed countries and China fight
“currency wars” that keep their exchange rates artificially
weak, the Andean nation’s Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said
in an economic forum yesterday.  The U.S. Federal Reserve announced last month a third round
of asset purchases known as quantitative easing, or QE3, saying
it will buy $40 billion of debt a month to boost the labor
market. That, combined with steps in Europe and Japan to fuel
growth, create an influx of capital into emerging markets that
causes currencies like Chile’s peso to strengthen, Larrain said.  The peso has gained 7.9 percent against the dollar this
year, the best performance among  emerging markets  behind
Hungary’s forint. Chilean authorities are trying to contain the
peso without intervening in the  currency market  by keeping a lid
on public spending and are promoting the use of hedging, he said 
in New York. Still, the measures have limited effect.  “We can do nothing if the U.S. has in excess of $40
billion per month of quantitative easing,” he said. “I’m
skeptical about QE and what it can do for the  U.S. economy , but
am also concerned about what it can do to my economy and our
economies in the emerging world in what we can call sort of
currency wars, where you’re caught in the middle of this fire.”  Larrain’s comments echo those of his Brazilian counterpart,
 Guido Mantega , who often rails against the impact of developed
countries’ monetary policy and as China pegs its currency to an
artificial rate.  Federal Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  in defense this
month said a stronger U.S. recovery would benefit the world and
governments had tools to manage their economies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 Kporzecanski1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  