-- Chile Pays Historic Low Latin America Yield in Offering
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   M o l l y   S e l t z e r
-- 2012-10-26T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/chile-sells-bonds-in-first-overseas-offering-since-2011.html
Chile  locked in historic low
borrowing costs for a Latin American nation in the sale of $1.5
billion of dollar bonds, its first overseas debt offering in
more than a year.  The country, rated Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, the
highest grade in the region, priced 10-year bonds at a yield of
2.38 percent, or about 55 basis points more than U.S.
Treasuries, and 30-year debt at a 75 basis-point spread, Chilean
Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said yesterday. Similarly rated
10-year notes from  South Korea  yield 2.71 percent.  “When a country can sell debt at 2.4 percent, it’s
reasonable, and not just reasonable but responsible, to go out
and finance itself at those levels,” Larrain said at a press
conference in Santiago, speaking by phone from  New York . “Chile
has the lowest financing cost in the history of  Latin America 
and the lowest finance cost of any emerging-market country.”  Chile, the world’s largest producer of copper, has $3
billion of dollar bonds outstanding, $1 billion of which falls
due in January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Chile has the ultimate scarcity value and is clearly one
of the strongest credits in the world,” said  Siobhan Morden ,
the head of Latin American fixed income at Jefferies & Co. Inc.
in New York. “It has virtually no debt because it is one of the
most fiscally responsible countries, so whenever it comes to the
market there is huge appetite.”  The yield on Chile’s debt due in 2021 fell to a record low
of 2.15 percent on Oct. 19. The government last sold
international bonds in September 2011, paying 3.35 percent to
borrow over 10 years. Larrain said the government lured about
$10 billion of demand for the bonds sold yesterday.  Low Yield  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to own Chile’s
2021 bonds instead of similar maturity Treasury bonds rose three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 47 basis points in
New York yesterday.  Brazil  has $2.925 billion of dollar bonds
due in 2041 that traded yesterday at a yield of 106 basis points
more than comparable U.S. Treasury debt, up 5 basis points from
the previous day, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chile’s peso appreciated 0.4 percent to 479.7 per  U.S.
dollar  at the close of trading in Santiago and is up 8.3 percent
this year, the second-biggest advancer in the world after
 Hungary ’s forint among currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Larrain said the government doesn’t want to have “an
undesired effect on the  exchange rate ” and doesn’t plan to
repatriate the proceeds.  Bank of America Corp., HSBC Holdings Plc and JPMorgan Chase
& Co. managed the sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net ;
Molly Seltzer in New York at 
 mseltzer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  