-- China Aluminum Stockpiles Seen at Two-Year High Amid Glut
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-25T09:50:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/china-aluminum-stockpiles-seen-at-two-year-high-on-supply-glut.html
Aluminum stockpiles in the main
trading regions in  China  have climbed to the highest level in
two years as growth in supply outpaces demand in the world’s
largest user, according to two industry surveys.  Reserves in Shanghai, Wuxi and Hangzhou, and in  Guangdong
province  gained to about 940,000 metric tons as of Oct. 22, the
highest since September 2010, according to Wen Junxiang, head of
the research department at Guangzhou KT Commodity Information &
Consulting Co. Stockpiles more than doubled this year to about 1
million tons, the largest since July 2010, said Zhang Chenguang,
an analyst at data provider SMM Information & Technology Co.  The estimates add to signs of a glut in the second-largest
economy as new capacity, especially in the west, helps to boost
output to the highest ever even as China’s  manufacturing  shrinks.
Aluminum in  London  has dropped 13 percent over the past year,
and  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. producer, cut its forecast for
global demand growth this month as  China’s economy  slowed.  “There is no improvement in demand this October,” SMM’s
Zhang said in a phone interview on Oct. 23 in Shanghai. “As new
capacities continue to be installed in the west, we expect
inventories to climb further.”  Three-month metal on the London Metal Exchange, which
touched a 34-month low of $1,827.25 a ton in August, was little
changed at $1,939.25 at 5:47 p.m. in Shanghai. Barclays Plc said
aluminum’s fundamentals “offer the most bearish outlook for all
the base metals,” according to an Oct. 22 report from analysts
 Gayle Berry , Sijin Cheng and Nicholas Snowdon.  Capacity Reductions  The increased inventories may force smelters around the
world to cut output further. Alcoa said in January it was
reducing capacity 12 percent.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  said in November
it would close the Lynemouth smelter in the U.K. The lightweight
metal is used to make autos and consumer appliances.  The survey results from both companies, which tally
holdings in the three cities in the  Yangtze River Delta  as well
as Guangdong province in the south, include metal monitored by
the Shanghai Futures Exchange. Those holdings have more than
doubled to 434,363 tons this year, the highest level since
January 2011, according to Oct. 19  data  from the bourse.  Aluminum stockpiles in China probably won’t decline in the
next few months as demand “isn’t great,” Yang Xiaowu, a senior
economist at  Aluminum Corp. of China , said in an interview on
Oct. 17. Inventories may be about 900,000 tons, he said.  LME Reserves  Reserves in LME-registered warehouses -- none of which is
located in China -- have expanded 1.8 percent this year to 5.06
million tons, according to data from the bourse, with 13 percent
held in  Asia . The  holdings  reached a record 5.13 million tons in
February. China accounted for 42 percent of global aluminum
demand last year, according to Bloomberg Industries research.  Output in China climbed 11 percent to 14.77 million tons in
the first nine months from a year ago, according to the National
Bureau of Statistics, while CRU International Ltd. forecast
demand growth may slow to 7.5 percent this year. Production in
Xinjiang, a western region, was a record 104,282 tons in August,
according to Beijing Antaike Information Development Co. That
compares with 311,910 tons in Henan, the biggest producer.  The market balance shows an oversupply, both for this year
as well as 2013 even as water, power sourcing and logistics may
lead to slower-than-expected production growth in Xinjiang,
Barclays said in the Oct. 22 report.  Manufacturing may have contracted for a 12th month in
October, according to a preliminary reading of a purchasing
managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. The
gauge stood at 49.1, below the level of 50 that separates
contraction from expansion. The  economy  grew 7.4 percent in the
third quarter, the slowest pace since the first quarter of 2009.  ‘Huge Stimulus’  “Unless there are huge stimulus policies coming after the
party congress in November, inventories will rise to a new
record,” said Wen at Guangzhou KT, a unit of KCTH Trading Co.
The all-time high is 1.2 million tons, set in May 2010.  The Communist Party is set to begin a congress Nov. 8, part
of a once-a-decade power handover. The government won’t provide
large stimulus and a strong rebound in growth is unlikely, Song
Guoqing, an adviser to the People’s Bank of China, said Oct. 18.  Global aluminum demand will climb by 6 percent this year,
New York-based Alcoa said Oct. 9 in its third-quarter earnings
statement. It said in July that usage would rise 7 percent,
after increases of 10 percent in 2011 and 13 percent in 2010.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in  Shanghai  at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  