-- China Silver Demand to Climb to Record
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-25T07:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/china-silver-demand-to-advance-to-record-on-wealth-protection.html
Silver demand in  China , the world’s
second-largest  user , is set to jump as much as 10 percent next
year to a record as investors look to preserve wealth,
according to Beijing Antaike Information Development Co.  Consumption may climb to 7,700 metric tons after gaining 6
percent to 8 percent in 2012, Shi Heqing, an analyst at
Beijing Antaike, said in an interview on Oct. 22. About 33
percent of the country’s demand comes from jewelry and coins,
with the rest from industrial use in photography, solar and
electrical appliances, according to Antaike, which has studied
metals for two decades.  Investors in China are buying more silver as the second-
largest economy slowed for a seventh quarter, the Shanghai
Composite Index is heading for a third straight annual drop and
property curbs are limiting prices. Silver climbed 15 percent
this year and  holdings by exchange traded funds  gained 6.5
percent this year after touching 592 million ounces last week.  “Chinese investors want hard assets such as silver,
especially when it’s cheaper than gold and requires less
funding,” Shi said. “Many producers and investors have hoarded
the precious metal in the form of ingots or unwrought silver.”  Silver rose 53 percent in the  Federal Reserve ’s first round
of quantitative easing from December 2008 through March 2010,
twice as much as gold, and 24 percent during the second phase
ending in June 2011, three times as much. The U.S. central bank
announced a third round of QE on Sept. 13. Silver will probably
beat gold in the next several quarters,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  predicts.  Jewelry Sales  China’s jewelry sales jumped by 19.3 percent in the first
eight months from a year earlier, Shi said, citing the National
Statistics Bureau. The government doesn’t give a breakdown on
jewelry sales.  “I’m bullish on silver, so I personally have stockpiled 3
tons of it at home,” Yang Guohui, president at Hunan Yishui
Rare & Precious Metals Recycling Co., said in Xiamen on Oct. 17.
Yishui is based in Yongxing County,  Hunan province , where about
20 percent of China’s silver is from, according to Huang
Xiaoming, head of the local precious metals management bureau.  The spread between Chinese and overseas prices is about $40
a kilogram because of  import duties  and transportation costs,
Guan Bingren, a trader at Shanghai Hedge International Trading
Co., said yesterday. The premium rose to more than $200 in May
2011 when investors bid up the metal on the Shanghai Gold
Exchange amid a “frenzy” of speculation, Guan said.  Solar Industry  A recovery in the solar industry may add to demand, Shi
said. The government is targeting 21 gigawatts of solar-power
installations by 2015 after installing 2.6 gigawatts in 2011,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  China’s economy  expanded 7.4 percent in the third quarter,
compared with 7.6 percent in the April-June period. The nation’s
benchmark equity gauge, the Shanghai Composite Index, has
declined about 3.8 percent in 2012. China’s September new home
prices rose in fewer than half the cities monitored by the
government from a month earlier.  Silver for December delivery on the Comex in  New York 
traded at $32.115 an ounce at 3:28 p.m. in Beijing. Gold futures
traded at $1,712.60 an ounce, making it 53 times more expensive.  Output in China, the third-biggest producer, may reach a
record 13,000 tons this year from mining, smelting, refining and
recycling, according to  Wang Jian , deputy head of the  China
Nonferrous (1258)  Metals Industry Association.  “You don’t feel there’s a huge oversupply of silver in the
domestic  spot market ,” Shi at Antaike said. “It’s hard to
estimate because it’s not transparent.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  