-- China Leading Index Rises at Slower Pace, Conference Board Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-25T02:51:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/china-leading-index-rises-at-slower-pace-conference-board-says.html
A leading index for  China’s economy 
rose at a slower pace in September, damping signs of a  growth 
rebound in the world’s second-biggest economy.  The gauge increased 0.3 percent from August to 241.2, the
Conference Board, a New York-based research group, said in a
statement today, citing a preliminary reading. That compared
with a 1.7 percent gain in the previous month.  Today’s report may increase the urgency for leaders to roll
out more pro-growth policies ahead of a Communist Party congress
set to begin Nov. 8, part of a once-a-decade power handover.
 China ’s manufacturing may contract for a 12th straight month in
October, according to  data  released yesterday by HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics.  “The near-term outlook continues to be uncertain,” Andrew Polk, an economist with the Conference Board in Beijing, said in
the statement today. The gauge’s “very modest pickup in
September, due in large part to a heavy drag from real estate,
points to an economy that is unlikely to pick up rapidly in the
near term,” he said.  Increased  government spending  on infrastructure should
continue in the coming months and help support industries and
manufacturing, “even as real estate activity remains weak,”
Polk said.  China’s gross domestic product growth decelerated for a
seventh quarter to 7.4 percent in the July-September period from
a year earlier, while industrial production and investment
figures in September showed signs of a pickup. Chinese Premier
 Wen Jiabao  said the economy will keep showing “positive
changes,” according to a report last week by the official
Xinhua News Agency.  First published in May 2010, the Conference Board’s Leading
Economic Index has successfully captured turning points in
China’s economic cycles if plotted back to 1986, according to
the group.  The index’s components, which include loans, a gauge of
raw-material supplies, export orders, consumer expectations and
floor space started, use data from the central bank and the
National Bureau of Statistics.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  