-- China Leader’s Job at Odds With Tobacco Ties, Brookings Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-25T19:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/china-leader-s-job-at-odds-with-tobacco-ties-brookings-says-1-.html
The brother of Chinese Vice Premier
 Li Keqiang , who oversees public health, should be removed from
his post as a top official in  China ’s state-owned tobacco
monopoly to avoid conflicts of interest, a report published by
the Washington-based  Brookings Institution  said.  Li, set to succeed  Wen Jiabao  as premier early next year,
could boost his reputation as a populist leader and deflect
criticism from rivals if his younger brother, Li Keming, is
transferred from his position as deputy director at China’s
 State Tobacco Monopoly Administration , Cheng Li, a Brookings
senior fellow, wrote in a report. He said Li Keming’s prominent
role in the agency that runs the world’s biggest tobacco company
may have set back efforts to control tobacco in the country.  Public opinion in China is becoming more important on
social issues including health, environmental protection and
 food safety , Brookings’s Li said today. China has more than 300
million smokers, and at least 1.2 million die from smoking-
related diseases each year, a figure set to rise to 2 million a
year by 2020, according to the report, released two weeks before
China begins a once-a-decade leadership transition.  “In all these areas, I think leaders should set
examples,” Brookings’s Li said in an interview. “Particularly
now that many countries, including Russia and  India , are paying
more attention to public health issues.”  Government Revenue  The tobacco industry is more difficult to control because
China’s government gets so much revenue -- 600 billion yuan ($96
billion) in 2011 -- from it, the report said. The industry,
which makes 2.3 trillion cigarettes a year, consistently
contributes 7 to 10 percent of annual government revenues,
according to the report.  Brookings, a private nonpartisan research group based in
 Washington , got funding for the study from the  Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation  through the China Medical Board, an American
foundation that seeks to advance health in China. Cheng Li is
research director for Brookings’s John L. Thornton China Center,
where he studies China’s elite politics. He dedicated the report
to his brother, who died of smoking-related causes.  “Paradoxically, Li’s personal/family ties with the tobacco
industry might have prevented him from making a real effort to
constrain cigarette production and consumption in the country,”
Brookings’s Li wrote in the report.  Market Control  The State Tobacco Monopoly Administration both runs and
regulates China National Tobacco Corp., the world’s biggest
cigarette maker with a market share about the size of  Philip
Morris International Inc. (PM)  and  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) 
combined, the report said. The STMA should be separated from
China National Tobacco and the industry should have a new
regulator, the report recommended.  A person contacted by phone at the State Tobacco Monopoly
in Beijing who didn’t identify herself said the administration
doesn’t accept interview requests from foreign reporters. Li
Keming didn’t respond to a faxed request for comment sent to a
number on the monopoly’s website. Vice Premier Li Keqiang didn’t
respond to a faxed request for comment made to the State Council
Information Office in Beijing.  The volume of cigarettes sold in China is expected to keep
rising from 2011 to 2015, London-based researcher Euromonitor
International said in July 2011. It forecast China’s tobacco
market will grow at an average 14 percent a year to hit 1.8
trillion  yuan  in retail sales in 2015, about the gross domestic
product of  Malaysia  last year.  China National Tobacco controlled 97.9 percent of the
domestic market in 2010, according to Euromonitor.  Tobacco Monopoly  Executives at the state tobacco monopoly, which also acts
as a regulator, tout the cigarette industry’s growth like that
of any state-dominated field such as steel or
telecommunications.  The monopoly’s director, Jiang Chengkang, said on a  visit 
to northeast China last year that the tobacco industry needed to
“make new breakthroughs in technological innovation” and
“improve product taste and development,” according to China
National Tobacco’s website.  Li Keqiang’s tobacco ties stand in contrast to the family
of his future boss, Vice President  Xi Jinping , who is set to
take over as general secretary of the Communist Party at its
congress next month and president next year. Xi’s wife, the army
folk singer Peng Liyuan, has served as an “Anti-Smoking
Ambassador” along with basketball star  Yao Ming  for the Chinese
Association on Tobacco Control.  “By doing so, she can help to gain popular support and
political capital for her husband to consolidate his power,” Li
said in the report. He said both Xi and Li Keqiang quit smoking
“a couple of decades ago,” while 20 percent of the party’s 25-
person Politburo still smoke.  Activist Efforts  Anti-tobacco activists have scored victories in China. In
2005, China ratified a World Health Organization initiative to
reduce the production and consumption of tobacco, and Health
Minister Chen Zhu was recognized by the WHO in July for his
tobacco-control efforts.  China, which according to the report has a quarter of the
world’s smokers, aims to ban cigarette advertising, promotions
and sponsorship and raise tobacco product taxes and prices, the
health ministry said in August. The country aims to cut the
smoking rate among men to 40 percent by 2020 from 57 percent in
2002, the ministry said.  Those efforts are often stymied by China National Tobacco,
which skirts advertising bans through charities and
sponsorships, according to anti-tobacco activists. It funds
schools throughout the country, including the Sichuan Tobacco
Hope Primary School, the Xinhua News Agency reported last year.  Devastating Crisis  “Chinese authorities have been slow to acknowledge this
increasingly devastating public health crisis,” Li’s report
said. “Their hesitance to effectively curtail tobacco
production and consumption is driven primarily by the fact that
the tobacco industry is one of the largest sources of  tax
revenue  for the Chinese government.”  Li Keming, who has worked in the tobacco industry for three
decades, gets access to top officials when he travels across
China, a fact that’s “highly unusual in terms of Chinese
bureaucratic hierarchy and protocol,” Li wrote. One reason may
be that local officials want to “curry favor with Li Keqiang,”
he said.  Li Keqiang has told health ministry officials privately
that tobacco control efforts can’t be real because of the
industry’s contribution to the economy, according to the report,
citing a conversation between Cheng Li and an unidentified
public health official in 2011.  Zhejiang Visit  Li Keming visited coastal Zhejiang province in July, when
he met Communist Party Secretary Zhao Hongzhu and other
officials to “exchange views on the development of tobacco in
Zhejiang,” according to a report on the tobacco monopoly’s
 website .  Brooking’s Li said in the interview that he hopes Li Keming
“will be sensitive enough to volunteer to move to a different
position, a different industry.”  “Chinese leaders in the future need to be sensitive about
this; it’s in their best interest,” he said.  Transferring Li Keming out of the tobacco industry may make
his older brother less vulnerable to political attack from
rivals critical of his failure to curb tobacco more effectively
while overseeing public health since 2008, the report said.  “Although the tobacco industry -- a formidable vested
interest group -- may generate some political support for Li
Keqiang, his family ties with the industry may become ammunition
for his political rivals,” Li wrote.  The Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, which provided
information for the report, is a partner of the Bloomberg
Initiative to Reduce Tobacco Use, funded by  Bloomberg
Philanthropies . Bloomberg Philanthropies was set up by  New York 
Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  