-- McKesson Plans to Buy PSS World Medical for $1.62 Billion
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-10-25T20:17:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/mckesson-agrees-to-buys-pss-world-for-2-1-billion.html
McKesson Corp. (MCK) , the largest U.S.
drug distributor, agreed to acquire PSS World Medical Inc. for
about $1.62 billion to expand in medical supplies and services.  The $29-a-share cash agreement for Jacksonville, Florida-
based PSS World includes the assumption of debt, McKesson said
today in a statement. The offer by San Francisco-based McKesson
is 34 percent more than  PSS World’s (PSSI)  closing share price
yesterday. The deal includes the assumption of about $480
million of debt, bringing its total value to $2.1 billion.  McKesson will acquire PSS World’s distribution of medical
products to physician offices and long-term care homes and gain
the company’s $2.1 billion in annual  sales . Cost savings will be
about $100 million a year within four years, McKesson said.  “It is mostly about scale,” said Jeff Jonas, co-portfolio
manager of the Gabelli Healthcare & Wellness Trust fund, in an
e-mail. “The combined company will be significantly bigger and
the $100 million in synergies is reasonable given savings in
warehouses, delivery, and slightly better purchasing from the
manufacturers.”  PSS World has also been selling private-label brands, and
has a strong presence in diagnostic tests. That could help
McKesson grow in those areas. Jonas’s firm owns McKesson shares
and not PSS World.  McKesson gained 4.1 percent to $93.16 at the close in New
York. PSS World  rose  32 percent to $28.57.  500 Takeovers  There have been more than 500 takeovers in the U.S. medical
products industry in the past five years, totaling almost $26
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  McKesson is paying about 11 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization for PSS World, the data
show. That compares with the median of 15 times Ebitda paid in a
survey of more than 20 comparable deals since 2007.  “We view this deal positively as it should help McKesson
to expand its presence and sustain margins in medical
distribution,” said  Ross Muken , an analyst with International
Strategy & Investment Group in New York. The acquisition will
add 20 cents to 25 cents a share to McKesson’s full-year
earnings next fiscal year, he said in a note to clients.  The companies have known each other for a long time as
competitors and the door opened on a deal after they talked
about McKesson buying PSS World’s long-term care business unit,
McKesson Chief Executive Officer John Hammergren said on a
conference call today.  Long-Term Relationship  “We’ve had a long-term industry relationship,” he said on
the call. “Off and on over the year, we’ve had lots of
conversations about opportunities.”  The deal will slightly slow the company’s current share
repurchase program, said McKesson Chief Financial Officer Jeff Campbell.  “We are likely to do a little less share repurchase than
we otherwise would have done in the short term,” Campbell said.
McKesson’s board authorized $700 million in additional buybacks
in April, bringing the program to $1 billion.  Peter J. Solomon Co., an investment bank based in New York,
acted as financial adviser for McKesson, and Simpson Thacher &
Bartlett LLP was the legal adviser. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and
Credit Suisse Group AG advised PSS World, and Alston & Bird LLP
was legal adviser.  Separately, McKesson reported fiscal second-quarter
 earnings  excluding one-time items of $1.92 a share, beating the
$1.78 average of 15 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales of $29.9 billion fell short of analyst expectations of
$30.9 billion.  McKesson in January agreed to spend about $918 million for
the marketing and franchising businesses of more than 1,000
Canadian independent pharmacies, buying Drug Trading Co. and
Medicine Shoppe Canada Inc. from Katz Group Canada Inc., a
closely-held  Edmonton , Alberta-based company.  In 2010, McKesson bought US Oncology Inc. for about $2.2
billion including debt. The deal gave McKesson an increased
range of clinical tools for doctors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  