-- Australia Urged to Stick With Renewable Energy Policy
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-10-26T02:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/climate-authority-urges-no-change-to-australia-renewables-target.html
Australia ’s renewable energy target
should be retained in its current form to avoid undermining
investors’ confidence in wind, solar and geothermal power,
according to the government’s  adviser on climate change .  Australia should stick by its target to get 41,000 gigawatt
hours of electricity from renewable sources by 2020, the  Climate
Change  Authority said today in a preliminary review of the
policy before its final report due in December.  The target should be maintained even though it would put
the country on course to get about 25 percent of its power from
renewable energy rather than the 20 percent originally intended,
according to the authority. Some power companies including  CLP
Holdings Ltd. (2) ’s Australian unit, TRUenergy Holdings Pty Ltd.,
have said that the target should be lowered to account for
falling electricity demand and to cut costs.  “The challenge is to strike a reasonable balance between
encouraging further investment in renewable energy, leading to
ongoing reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, and the costs of
the scheme to household and business consumers of electricity,”
according to the climate authority’s statement.  Significant investment has been made on the basis of the
existing legislation with more planned, Bernie Fraser, the
authority’s chairman, said in the statement. Scaling back the
target would lead to only modest decreases in electricity bills
through 2030, according to the authority, which was set up on
July 1 to give advice to the government on its climate policies.  Certainty Sought  “Certainty for investors in renewable energy assets is
absolutely top of my mind,” Climate Change Minister  Greg Combet 
said yesterday after a speech in Sydney on Oct. 24. “It would
take a lot to convince me that there need to be changes in the
current renewable energy target settings.”  Australia’s policies to lower emissions and promote clean
energy may drive investment of A$100 billion ($104 billion) in
the next four decades, Combet said. The government set a price
of A$23 a metric ton on  carbon emissions  for about 300 of its
largest polluters for the year that started on July 1, with a
market-based system scheduled to begin in 2015.  While “there is a lot to like about the RET,” adjusting
the target could reduce power costs by about A$25 billion,
Melbourne-based TRUenergy said in a statement in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  