-- Coca-Cola Exit May Speed Greece’s Cut to Emerging Market
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-10-25T12:27:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/coca-cola-exit-may-speed-greece-s-cut-to-emerging-market.html
Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Co. SA (EEEK) ’s
decision to leave its home equity market in  Athens  for London
increases the chance that Greece will be demoted to an emerging
market next year,  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  said.  The index provider put Greece’s stock market under review
for downgrade from developed status on June 20 and will make a
final decision as part of its annual reclassification in June
next year. The  MSCI Greece Index (MXGR)  consists of just two companies,
with the world’s second-largest Coca-Cola bottler accounting for
75 percent by weight.  Market size “is the main driver for us to make that
proposal, but on top of that, one needs to admit that there are
still some operational issues that have been present since the
inclusion of MSCI Greece in developed markets back in 2001,”
Sebastian Lieblich, global head of index management at MSCI in
Geneva, said in a phone interview yesterday. Coca-Cola’s exit is
“a very important development, and this is something we’d need
to assess how investors see this move.”  Coca-Cola HBC’s departure will shave off about two-thirds
of the increase in Greece’s market size since the end of June.
The country’s largest company by market value is fleeing the
epicenter of the euro-area sovereign-debt crisis, saying it
wants a more stable economic and regulatory environment. The
company will be based in Switzerland and will trade on the
 London  Stock Exchange.  Lieblich said that MSCI’s decisions are based on
consultations with investors.  Exceptional Decision  MSCI said it won’t discontinue the Greece index after Coca-
Cola HBC’s exit. Any deletions from the gauge will be
substituted by the largest constituents of the  MSCI Greece Small
Cap Index (MXGRSC) , it said. There are currently 22 members in the small-
cap measure, led by  National Bank of Greece SA. (ETE)   MSCI will “exceptionally maintain at all times at least
two constituents in the MSCI Greece Index until further
communication,” it said in a statement yesterday.  Opap SA (OPAP) ,
 Europe ’s biggest listed gambling company, is the second stock in
the MSCI Greece, accounting for 25 percent of the gauge’s
weight.  Coca-Cola Hellenic makes up 21 percent of the benchmark
 Athens Stock Exchange Index (ASE) , followed by National Bank,  Hellenic
Petroleum SA (ELPE) , Hellenic Telecommunications Organization SA and
OPAP, with weights ranging from 8 percent to 5.6 percent.  Shrinking Market  The  Greek market  has lost about 85 percent of its value
since peaking at $273 billion in November 2007 as surging
borrowing costs forced the government to accept two European
Union-led bailouts.  The market value of the MSCI Greece has risen to 7.9
billion euros ($10.2 billion) from 6.7 billion euros at the end
of June, on optimism the nation will agree on a new financing
package with the International Monetary Fund and European
partners. The equity value is still down from 25.8 billion euros
in June 2011.  The overall Greek equity market has climbed to 32.2 billion
euros from 23.5 billion euros at the end of June this year. It
would fall to about 26.1 billion euros once Coca-Cola Hellenic
is removed.  MSCI said in June that restrictions on in-kind transfers,
off-exchange transactions, stock lending and short-selling
impeded  Greece  from having a fully functional trading place
aligned with those of developed markets. The Greek authorities
had not been receptive to repeated complaints from the
international investment community, the company said.  “If at one point in time any market doesn’t provide enough
stocks to clearly represent the investment-opportunity set, then
we may be forced to consider it for demotion,” said Lieblich.
“The current sovereign-debt issues that Greece is facing are
not at all the trigger point for the reclassification of Greece.
It is really the size combined with the operational issues which
haven’t been solved over the past ten years which we see as a
major concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  and @AndrewJRummer on Twitter 