-- Code in Aramco Cyber Attack Indicates Lone Perpetrator
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-10-25T21:54:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/code-in-aramco-cyber-attack-indicates-lone-perpetrator.html
Within hours after a virus had
devastated the computer network of Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the
world’s largest state-owned crude oil exporter, investigators
began searching for evidence of who was behind the attack.  Although anonymous U.S. officials have been suggesting that
 Iran  was to blame for the Aug. 15 attack, the cyber detectives
say the virus’s code had none of the sophisticated elements that
would suggest state-sponsored programmers were responsible.  Instead, they said, as the virus spread through the network
of the company known as  Saudi Aramco , destroying 55,000
computers, the malicious software failed to perform as its
designer had intended.  The mistakes in the virus’s code led investigators to the
point of attack -- a USB stick that had been inserted in a
computer on the internal company network -- and to the identity
of the suspected attacker, an Aramco employee who was logged
onto the machine at the time of the incident.  While malware constructed by state-sponsored hackers
doesn’t have to be sophisticated, it’s typically far more
advanced than the virus used against Saudi Aramco, according to
one person involved in the probe who characterized the attack as
amateurish. The investigators spoke on condition of anonymity
because they weren’t authorized to discuss the attack publicly.  Cyber War  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and other American
officials have suggested that the Aramco attack is evidence of a
brewing global cyber war, one in which countries including Iran
are improving their ability to attack commercial and government
targets to retaliate against assaults on their own computers,
protest U.S. policies or practice a new form of warfare.  Detailed forensic evidence from the Aramco attack and
others shows how difficult it is to distinguish cyber warfare
and espionage from a bewildering array of threats that includes
hacktivists, social malcontents, criminals and others.  The design errors and other aspects of the virus, dubbed
Shamoon by researchers, offer some of the strongest evidence
that the attack in Saudi Arabia most likely was perpetrated by a
single individual, a person involved in the investigation said.
The company insider didn’t have the skills or access to
penetrate the company’s oil production facilities, which would
have been far more devastating, the investigator said.  Nail Al-Jubeir, director of the information office at the
Saudi Embassy in  Washington , declined to comment, referring
questions to Saudi Aramco and the Saudi Interior Ministry, which
didn’t immediately respond to e-mails.  Stuxnet Virus  Two U.S. intelligence officials said in interviews that the
evidence implicating Iran in the Aramco attack is largely
circumstantial, though they declined to discuss it in detail.
The attack, they said, does fit a pattern of increased Iranian
cyber warfare activity since 2010, after a sophisticated virus
known as Stuxnet attacked its main uranium enrichment
facilities.  U.S. officials told the  New York  Times earlier this year
that President  Barack Obama  had ordered joint U.S.-Israeli
cyberattacks, code-named  Olympic Games , against Iran.  Forensic investigators involved in the Aramco probe,
though, aren’t convinced that the incident was an Iranian
response to attacks on its suspected nuclear weapons program.  The virus destroyed data on Aramco servers and erased hard-
drives on individual computers, replacing critical company data
with the image of a burning American flag. It’s considered among
the most damaging direct attacks against any corporate
information network.  Coding Errors  Parts of the virus used off-the-shelf software, while other
elements appear to have been downloaded from hacker forums,
according to a participant in the investigation. Errors in the
code kept it from overwriting certain segments of Aramco
directories that its designer had instructed it to, he said.
That allowed analysts to retrieve information that assisted
their investigation.  In response to a question from a reporter, Panetta said
today that the computer virus that attacked Aramco’s network
used “a very sophisticated tool.”  “There are only a few countries in the world that have
that capability,” Panetta said at a Pentagon press conference.
“But it raises tremendous concerns about the potential for the
use of that kind of tool when it comes to our  power grid , when
it comes to our financial systems, when it comes to our
government systems.”  The virus was “one of the first we’ve seen that can
actually take and destroy computers,” Panetta said.  Not Exotic  A person who helped investigate the Aramco attack
contradicted Panetta’s characterization of the virus as exotic.
The investigator said the malware destroyed computers by
overwriting the master boot record that computers need to start
up. That part of the virus, he said, was taken from an off-the-
shelf product made by  EldoS Corporation , a London-based security
company.  Eugene Mayevski, the company’s chief technology officer,
said in an Aug. 17  blog post  that the wiper used in the Shamoon
virus was a commercial EldoS product called  RawDisk  and guessed
that it “was probably stolen from some of our clients
software.”  Iran’s oil industry was hit with a similar data-erasing
virus in April, which was dubbed Wiper. Roel Schouwenberg, who
examined the viruses independently, says the Wiper virus may
have inspired the Aramco technique, but the two don’t use the
same code. Schouwenberg is senior researcher for Woburn,
Massachusetts-based Kaspersky Lab Inc., a division of Moscow-
based Kaspersky Lab.  Middle East  Shamoon also doesn’t share any of its code with Stuxnet or
Flame, two of the investigators said. Both of the more-advanced
cyber weapons are now in the hands of many nation-states and
sophisticated hackers.  “Shamoon really doesn’t have something in common with
these operations such as Stuxnet and Flame,” Schouwenberg said.
“The only thing it has in common is it’s an attack on critical
infrastructure in the  Middle East .”  “If Shamoon had happened in  Norway , we wouldn’t have been
drawing these comparisons,” he said.  Forensic analysis, though, cannot provide definitive proof
that an attack wasn’t the work of a nation-state, Schouwenberg
said. It’s possible a state actor might make a virus look
amateurish in an attempt to cover its tracks.  “Sloppy code may well become more prevalent as a form of
obfuscation,” he said.  RasGas Attack  Although pinning the attack on Iran is increasingly popular
in Washington, Saudi Arabian social networking sites offer a
different theory. They blame the Shiite Muslim minority in the
predominantly Sunni country’s oil-rich  Eastern Province , where
there are religious and economic tensions.  An attack two weeks later against  RasGas , a liquified
natural gas company in Qatar, underscores the difficulty of
sorting out motives and attackers in the shadowy world of cyber
conflict.  An investigator who’s familiar with both attacks said the
RasGas computer virus shares some characteristics with the one
used against Aramco but contains different coding errors. He
said it’s possible the RasGas attack was a copycat designed by
the attacker to make it look as if the two were linked.  In his Oct. 11 speech to Business Executives for National
Security on the deck of the USS Intrepid, a decommissioned
 aircraft carrier  in New York, Panetta said a cyberattack by
nation-states or violent extremist groups “could be as
destructive as the terrorist attack of 9/11.”  Effective Attack  Without linking the country to any specific attack, he
said, “Iran has also undertaken a concerted effort to use
cyberspace to its advantage.”  If the flaws in the Aramco virus don’t prove that Iran
wasn’t responsible, they also don’t mean the attack wasn’t
effective.  The virus not only destroyed the hard drives of more than
60 percent of Aramco’s computers, it also wiped out data on the
company’s servers, including the domain management servers that
were the heart of the corporate network, said an investigator
involved in the clean-up.  Following the attack, a team of investigators and
cybersecurity experts flew to  Saudi Arabia  to help analyze what
had happened and develop stronger defenses.  With few answers in the code itself or the nature of the
attack, the key to uncovering the culprit and the motive may lie
in whatever information is provided by the attacker, a piece of
the puzzle missing in other attacks of this scale.  Reports on Saudi social media suggest that the suspected
attacker is in custody. One investigator said that there has
been an information blackout as to the individual’s motives.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  