-- Coinstar Drops After Sales Miss Estimates on Redbox DVD
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-26T13:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/coinstar-sales-miss-analyst-estimates-as-weak-films-hurt-kiosks.html
Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) , owner of the Redbox
DVD rental machines, fell the most in almost three months after
third-quarter sales and the company’s outlook for the rest of
2012 missed analysts’ estimates.  Coinstar, based in Bellevue,  Washington , declined 5.3
percent to $40.92 at 9:32 a.m.  New York  time, following the
third-quarter report and forecast yesterday after the markets
closed. The stock dropped as much as 6.3 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since July 30.  Chief Executive Officer Paul Davis cited “temporary
headwinds” tied to a weak slate of new films in the home-video
market and competition for viewers from the summer Olympics.
Coinstar, owner of the largest DVD-rental service, and  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  are testing Redbox Instant, combining
streaming to TVs and smaller devices with DVD rentals. Verizon
has said the service will start by Christmas.  “We knew going into the quarter that we didn’t have great
new release content,” Chief Financial Officer Scott Di Valerio
said in an interview. “We had nine weeks in that time period in
what is traditionally one of our highest rental periods, where
we had two or less new titles in the kiosks, and they certainly
weren’t the best titles.”  Third-quarter revenue rose 15 percent to $537.6 million,
Coinstar said yesterday in a  statement . That missed the $557.4
million average of 14 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Profit excluding some items totaled $1.26 a share, beating
analysts’ projections of $1.17. Net income fell 1 percent to
$36.8 million, or $1.14 a share, from $37.1 million, or $1.18, a
year earlier.  Fourth Quarter  Fourth-quarter earnings will come up short of analysts’
projections. The company forecasts profit of 62 cents to 77
cents a share, excluding items, compared with analysts’
projections of $1.05 a share, the average of 13 estimates. Sales
will be $552 million to $602 million, the company said, compared
with estimates of $599.7 million.  Redbox plans to buy more copies of movies to make sure
customers get the films they want after a drop in traffic to
kiosks in the third quarter, according to Michael Pachter, an
analyst with Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los Angeles.  “Probably they’ve been getting complaints about people not
getting the movies they want to see,” said Pachter, who has an
outperform rating on the stock. “Now, they’ve decided to keep
these customers happy and give them what they want.”  Better Movies  Coinstar expects a better response to fourth-quarter titles
including “Marvel’s The Avengers” from  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and
Sony Corp.’s “The Amazing Spider-Man,” Di Valerio said.  The company and Verizon said in a separate statement an
agreement to put titles from Time Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros. on
the Redbox Instant system, the first such deal with a major
studio to be announced, according to Di Valerio. Newer films
will available for purchase and rental; older pictures will be
part of subscription streaming. The service is being tested with
company employees and will go public by year-end.  Warner also agreed to provide movies to Redbox kiosks for
rent 28 days after they go on sale. Coinstar previously had no
agreement with Warner and purchased titles from retailers to
stock their machines.  Redbox Instant will offer a la carte movie rentals and
purchases for download, in addition to subscriptions, Eric
Bruno, Verizon’s vice president of strategy and planning for
consumer and mass business markets, said in an interview last
month. The companies haven’t set a start date or prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  