-- Commercial Paper Contracts to Least Since January 2011, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-10-25T15:42:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/commercial-paper-contracts-to-least-since-january-2011-fed-says.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through  commercial paper  contracted for an eighth week, reaching
the lowest level in 21 months, as issuers reduced the amount of
short-term IOUs and sold longer-dated corporate bonds, with
yields at about record lows.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
dropped $19.2 billion to $924.4 billion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the  Federal Reserve  said today on its website.
That’s the longest stretch of declines in a year and the lowest
level since the market touched $916.8 billion in the period
ended Jan. 19, 2011, according to Fed data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Borrowers are taking advantage of unprecedented low
 interest rates  to sell longer-term company bonds and to reduce
the risk of a squeeze in short-term lending amid Europe’s
persistent debt crisis.  “The desire to extend maturities is a leading cause of the
decline in commercial-paper issuance, rooted in a desire amongst
investors to increase the liquidity of their portfolios, while
also reducing the possibility that the companies they invest in
face rollover risks from an abrupt loss of  market access ,”  Tony Crescenzi , a portfolio manager and strategist at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach , California, wrote in
an e-mail.  Money-market funds ’ demand for short-term IOUs has declined
on concern that Europe’s fiscal strains may damage  credit
quality  globally, making it more difficult for companies to
repay these obligations.  European Banks  The reduction in allocations by prime money market funds to
European banks is another cause of the weakness in commercial-
paper issuance, Crescenzi wrote.  Commercial paper sold by non-U.S. financial institutions 
fell $10.6 billion to $216.8 billion outstanding, the lowest
level since July 25, while the  amount issued by U.S.-based banks 
rose $1 billion to $245.9 billion outstanding, the first
increase in eight weeks, according to the Fed.  “Companies just don’t have the demand for credit” in the
commercial-paper market, Anthony Carfang, a Chicago-based
partner at Treasury Strategies Inc., a firm that advises
corporate treasurers, said in a telephone interview. Many
clients are “concerned about the fiscal cliff and therefore
they are pulling back,” he said, referring to automatic
spending cuts and tax increases that could go into effect
starting in January.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  Companies have sold $3.26 trillion of bonds worldwide this
year, a pace that’s second only to the record issuance in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yields on global
investment-grade company bonds fell to an all-time low 2.676
percent Oct. 15, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Parry  in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  