-- Conoco Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates on Production
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-10-25T20:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/conoco-third-quarter-net-income-drops-after-refining-spin.html
ConocoPhillips (COP) , which spun off its
refining business in April, reported third-quarter profit that
exceeded analysts’ estimates after it said petroleum production
was at the high end of an earlier forecast.  In its first full quarter after the spinoff, net income
fell 31 percent to $1.8 billion, or $1.46 a share, from $2.62
billion, or $1.91, a year earlier, the Houston-based oil and
natural gas producer said in a statement today. Profit excluding
one-time items such as a gain from asset sales was $1.44 a
share, 25 cents more than the  average  of 18 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Production was the equivalent of 1.525 million barrels of
oil equivalent a day, compared to the company’s forecast in July
that daily output in the quarter might be as low as 1.475
million barrels. ConocoPhillips said production in the fourth
quarter is expected to be higher than in the third quarter.
Output in the quarter from its Bakken and Eagle Ford shale
projects in North America doubled from a year earlier.  “I thought it was a very good quarter,” said Brian
Youngberg, an analyst with Edward Jones in St. Louis who has a
buy rating on ConocoPhillips shares and owns none. “Production
was at the high end of their guidance. Their strategy to focus
more on North American oil production is off to a good start.”  Largest Independent  ConocoPhillips created a new company,  Phillips 66 (PSX) , by
spinning off its refining, chemical and pipeline businesses on
April 30. Third-quarter results at ConocoPhillips didn’t include
earnings from its former operations, though they were included
in the results a year earlier.  ConocoPhillips is now the largest U.S. oil and gas
producer, based on market value, that doesn’t have refineries or
a chemical unit. The company has been selling assets and
remaking itself as part of a three-year plan to boost returns.  The company plans to complete $8 billion to $10 billion of
asset sales by the end of 2013. It generated $2.1 billion from
asset sales in the first nine months of this year, according to
today’s statement.  ConocoPhillips’ third-quarter production was aided by
output in China and Libya, and from oil sands, Chief Financial
Officer Jeff Sheets said in a telephone interview today. Some
maintenance was completed faster than expected, he said.  The company said capital spending this year will be $15.5
billion to $16 billion, reflecting some possible acreage
acquisitions. Spending may be in a similar “neighborhood” next
year, Sheets said.  Dividend Yield  In presentation slides, ConocoPhillips said it remains
“highly committed to profitable growth and sector-leading
yield.” The company’s dividend yield is about 4.6 percent at
today’s stock price.  The dividend yield may decline some as the stock rises,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ryan Lance told analysts on
a conference call today.  ConocoPhillips wants to be in a position to have annual
dividend increases in future years, Sheets said.  Brent crude futures, a benchmark oil price used by much of
the world, fell 2.4 percent from a year earlier to average
$109.42 a barrel in the third quarter. Gas futures traded in New
York dropped 29 percent from a year earlier to average $2.893
per million British thermal units.  ConocoPhillips rose 2.2 percent to $57.16 at the close in
New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  