-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Climbs to Highest Level Since April
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-10-25T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-climbs-to-highest-level-since-april.html
Consumer confidence  last week
reached a six-month high as U.S. households became less
pessimistic about the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 34.6 in
the period ended Oct. 21, the eighth gain in the last nine
weeks, from minus 34.8 the previous period. Americans’ views of
economy were the brightest since early May.  Lower  gasoline prices , an improving housing market and less
joblessness may be helping to ease anxiety as the world’s
largest economy approaches a presidential election in less than
two weeks. Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday acknowledged
a pickup in household spending that is helping to sustain growth
as business investment and exports slow.  “Consumer sentiment continues an impressive rebound from
summertime lows, mainly due to falling gasoline costs and
stabilization of housing prices,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a
senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York . The labor market
will “likely continue to see modest gains, which probably
bolstered income expectations among households.”  The number of Americans filing first-time applications for
 unemployment benefits  fell last week, returning to a level that
shows the labor market is making limited progress, another
report today showed.  Jobless claims decreased by 23,000 to 369,000 in the week
ended Oct. 20 from a revised 392,000 the prior period, the Labor
Department reported. The drop comes after weeks of big swings in
the figures caused by difficulties in adjusting the data for
seasonal variations.  Shares Advance  Stocks rose amid better-than-estimated earnings from
companies such as  Procter & Gamble Co . The  S&P 500  climbed 0.7
percent to 1,417.97 at 9:40 a.m. in New York.  Fed policy makers yesterday said the economy is still
growing modestly and unemployment remains elevated as they
maintained $40 billion in monthly purchases of mortgage-backed
securities aimed at spurring the three-year expansion.  “Growth in employment has been slow,” the  Federal Open
Market Committee  said at the conclusion of a two-day meeting in
 Washington . “Household spending has advanced a bit more
quickly.”  Two of the comfort index’s components improved. The
barometer of the state of the economy rose to minus 64.9 from
minus 67.9 the previous week. The  buying climate  index inched up
to minus 36.3 from minus 36.4. The gauge measuring Americans’
views of their personal finances fell to minus 2.4 from minus
0.1 a week earlier.  Less Unemployment  A decline in the jobless rate to a more than three-year low
of 7.8 percent in September may explain why the Bloomberg
confidence index has been on the mend since the end of August.
The index has held above minus 40, a level associated with
recessions and their aftermath, for five straight weeks.  Signs of a rebound in the U.S. housing market and lower
 gasoline prices  may also be helping to shore up confidence. The
average nationwide price at the pump fell to $3.63 a gallon on
Oct. 23, the cheapest since Aug. 5, according to AAA, the
largest U.S. auto group.  Gas prices  reached a 2012 high of $3.94
on April 4.  Home prices  in July climbed more than forecast, according
to a Sept. 25 report. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values in 20 cities increased 1.2 percent from July 2011, the
biggest 12-month advance since August 2010. That’s giving a lift
to sentiment.  “If you can think about sort of where people are coming
from, this being their largest asset, when that starts to
change,” that’s a reason to become more upbeat, William Rogers,
chief executive officer of Atlanta-based  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) ,
said on an earnings conference call on Oct. 22. “I think this
just tries to unlock some of the consumer confidence.”  Other Measures  Other indicators of consumer confidence have also
increased. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final
index of sentiment jumped in October to the highest level since
before the recession began in 2007.  The presidential election, which takes place on Nov. 6, may
be shaping economic assessments. Today’s report showed
confidence among Democrats rose to minus 22.1, the highest level
since mid-April. Confidence among Republicans fell to minus 37.2
from minus 33.2 the previous week. A measure of sentiment among
independents climbed to minus 41.6, the highest since the end of
June, from minus 44.5.  “Such gains in anticipation of presidential elections are
not the norm,” said  Gary Langer , president of New-York based
Langer Research Associates, which compiles the index for
Bloomberg. “While its improved trajectory could potentially
help  Barack Obama , the CCI remains far lower than its levels
when incumbents  George W. Bush  and  Bill Clinton  won re-
election.”  Demographic Groups  The demographic groups showing recent gains in confidence
included seniors, whose confidence level climbed to minus 25.5
last week, the highest since November 2007. The gauge for
Americans with annual household incomes of more than $100,000
rose to 4.9, the third time in the past four weeks it’s been
positive. Among men, confidence rose to minus 27.3 from minus
28.7 the previous week. The index among women fell to minus 41.4
from minus 40.5.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers 18 and older. Each week, 250
respondents are asked for their views on the economy, personal
finances and buying climate; the percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Editors: Vince Golle,  Carlos Torres   To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  