-- U.S. Company Credit Swaps Pare Fall; RBC Sells Benchmark Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-25T21:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-for-first-time-in-six-days.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk pared an earlier decline as orders for U.S. business
equipment stalled in September and Apple Inc. forecast profit
and revenue that fell short of analysts’ predictions for the
holiday quarter.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.2
basis point to a mid-price of 98.5 basis points at 5:07 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Contracts
tied to  Best Buy (BBY)  reached a record high, Bloomberg prices show,
after the company said profit will be “significantly” lower
than last year.  Apple’s profit in the current period will be about $11.75 a
share, the Cupertino, California-based company said today in a
statement. That compares with $15.49 a share, the average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Bookings for non-
defense capital goods excluding aircraft were little changed in
September, a Commerce Department report showed today in
 Washington . That was short of the 0.8 percent increase predicted
by analysts and may heighten investor concern that economic
growth is slowing, hindering companies’ ability to repay debt.  Credit markets responded to economic data that were “a
mixed bag this morning. If you throw out Boeing then you’re
flat,” Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC, said in a
telephone interview. “While you hate to say it because the
world is bigger than Apple,” the company’s earnings can
“really shape risk appetite.”  Aircraft bookings, which are often volatile, rose in
September as Boeing Co. said it received 143 orders for the
month, up from 1 in August.  RBC Offering  The credit-swaps index, which touched as low as 96.8 basis
points earlier, typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Royal Bank of Canada , the nation’s largest lender, raised
$1 billion in its first sale of benchmark dollar-denominated
three-year notes in more than seven months. The bank, which said
this week it agreed to buy Ally Financial Inc.’s Canadian auto-
finance and deposit business, sold the 0.8 percent securities to
yield 37.5 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Yields  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt fell 1
basis point, led by financial companies’ subordinated bonds,
which narrowed 2. The spread on speculative-grade debt declined
3 basis points.  The  risk premium  on the Markit CDX North America High Yield
Index, a measure of speculative-grade corporate debt risk,
dropped 3.4 basis points to 512.7 basis points, after closing at
the highest level since Sept. 5 yesterday, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Contracts protecting against Best Buy’s default rose 2.6
percentage points to 16.7 percent upfront as of 3:30 p.m. in New
York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Fiscal third-quarter profit will be short of last year’s
results, as comparable-store sales will drop at a rate
consistent with the first two quarters, the retailer said in a
statement yesterday. Same-store sales fell 5.3 percent in the
first quarter and 3.2 percent in the second.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in  New York  at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  