-- Deutsche Bank’s Hooper Sees 3% Growth If Fiscal Cliff Is Avoided
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-10-25T20:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/deutsche-bank-s-hooper-sees-3-growth-if-fiscal-cliff-is-avoided.html
U.S. economic growth may quicken to
more than 3 percent next year as consumers gain confidence and
spend more on deferred purchases if Congress avoids the fiscal
cliff,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  chief economist Peter Hooper said.  “This is an economy that has been laying the foundation
for a considerably stronger performance,” Hooper said today in
an interview at Bloomberg in Washington. “What has the
potential to drive it a good deal more rapidly is a lot of pent-
up demand that’s been built up by a period of very sluggish, by
historical standards, recovery from a very deep recession.”  Spending on homes and durable goods remains “well below”
the level needed to keep pace with the normal trend of economic
growth and the expanding population, said Hooper, who worked for
26 years as an economist at the Federal Reserve Board in
Washington.  Whether the potential translates into faster growth depends
on lawmakers avoiding the automatic spending cuts and tax
increases of more than $600 billion set to take place starting
in January, he said.  Failure to do so risks a shock to financial markets of even
greater magnitude than August 2011, Hooper said. Standard &
Poor’s stripped the U.S. of its top credit rating for the first
time on Aug. 5, 2011, amid  Europe ’s deepening debt crisis.  “Certainly it’s at least August 2011, it’s a lot worse
than that,” Hooper said today. “August 2011 was gridlock in
action and it did not result in a recession. You’re talking
about a much bigger near-term hit to the markets.”  U.S. Stocks  The swings in U.S. equities in the week after the Aug. 5,
2011, downgrade were unprecedented in the history of the
American stock market, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
and Birinyi Associates Inc. The S&P 500 Index plunged 6.7
percent on Aug. 8, 2011, its biggest drop since December 2008,
in the first trading session after the downgrade. S&P cited
lawmakers’ inability to agree to a budget plan that would cut
spending enough to reduce record deficits.  If the so-called fiscal cliff isn’t averted, the economy
will shrink 0.5 percent next year and joblessness will climb to
about 9 percent, according to the Congressional Budget Office.  Economists project the U.S. largest economy to expand by 2
percent next year, the median of 89 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  