-- Deutsche Bank Names Review Panel to Tackle Banker Pay Criticism
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-10-25T10:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/deutsche-bank-names-review-panel-to-tackle-banker-pay-criticism.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  named a panel of
business executives and a former German finance minister to
review its compensation system as  Europe ’s biggest bank by
assets seeks to lower costs and address criticism of banker pay.  Juergen Hambrecht, the former chief executive officer of
German chemical company  BASF SE (BAS) , will lead the group, the
Frankfurt-based lender said in an e-mailed statement today. The
panel’s recommendations will influence pay practices for this
year, according to the statement.  Banks are under pressure from shareholders, regulators and
politicians to cut compensation costs following taxpayer-funded
rescues and as volatile markets and stricter rules hurt profit.
Deutsche Bank, which has cut bonuses and overhauled pay for its
senior management, is betting that bankers won’t consider it a
less attractive employer as competitors follow suit.  “This panel and its work constitute a vital part of our
commitment to place Deutsche Bank at the forefront of cultural
change in our industry,” Anshu Jain and  Juergen Fitschen , the
lender’s co-CEOs, said in the statement.  Other panel members are Michael Dobson, CEO of U.K. fund
manager  Schroders Plc (SDR) , Morris Offit, an independent director at
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  and chairman of Offit Capital
Advisors LLC, Michael Otto, supervisory board chairman of German
retailer Otto Group, and former finance minister Theo Waigel,
according to the statement.  ‘Best Practice’  The group will benchmark Deutsche Bank’s systems against
“industry best practice” and regulatory requirements as well
as formulate “core principles” and minimum standards for
future pay structures, according to the statement.  Deutsche Bank has said it will increase the vesting period
for deferred bonuses for about 150 senior managers to five years
from three, and will make a single payout after the deferral
period ends.  The company plans to lower costs by 4.5 billion euros ($5.9
billion) a year by 2015 to reduce its cost income ratio to less
than 65 percent from 78 percent last year. That will help boost
after-tax return on equity, or ROE to 12 percent by 2015 from
8.2 percent in 2011, Deutsche Bank said Sept. 11.  Deutsche Bank’s bonus payments as a percentage of net
revenue have fallen from 22 percent in 2006 to 11 percent last
year, according to company filings. Deutsche Bank shrank its
2011 bonus pool by 17 percent and deferred about 61 percent of
the total amount, the company said in February.  The German bank, which didn’t require direct state aid amid
the turmoil following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008, has said it will cut about 1,900 jobs, or almost 2
percent of its workforce, to reduce costs.  Jain called on investors at a conference in  London  in
September to demand banks follow Deutsche Bank’s plans in
changing their compensation policy.  “We have taken a bigger first step than most of our
competitors,” he said. “Is there a risk that our competition
doesn’t follow suit? Only if you are willing to accept low ROEs
with unchanged compensation practices elsewhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  