-- Dutch Vote Boosts Pressure to Support Carbon Fix, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-25T15:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/dutch-vote-boosts-pressure-to-support-carbon-fix-lawmaker-says.html
The Dutch government will be under
pressure to endorse planned European Union curbs on supply in
the carbon market after a motion by the country’s parliament
yesterday, an EU lawmaker from the Netherlands said.  The parliament in the Hague called on the government to
support a strategy proposed by the European Commission to delay
auctions of some carbon permits as of 2013 and help prices
recover, a plan the outgoing  environment minister  said he was
unlikely to support. The vote means that the Netherlands, where
elections took place last month, is now unlikely to block the
so-called backloading proposal, according to Bas Eickhout, a
Dutch member of the European Parliament.  “It’s a significant move,” Eickhout, a member of the
Green group in the EU assembly, said in a phone interview from
Brussels today. “I expect the new government to follow the
parliament’s line. Theoretically it could ignore the motion but
by objecting to the proposal the minister would risk being voted
down.”  At stake is the price of emission permits in the world’s
biggest cap-and-trade system after they plunged to a record of
5.99 euros ($7.76) in April as the economic crisis hurt
industrial output, boosting the surplus of allowances to almost
half of the average annual pollution limit in the 27-nation EU.  The strategy proposed by the commission, the EU’s
regulatory arm, would see fewer permits being auctioned by
member states at the beginning of the next trading period that
starts in 2013, a move that would help alleviate the oversupply.
The postponed allowances would be returned to the market at a
later stage of the so-called Phase 3 that ends in 2020.  Backloading Measure  The Dutch environment ministry said in September the
country will probably not support the backloading measure as it
could lead to temporarily higher costs for companies in the
Netherlands that compete internationally. That could indirectly
be a disadvantage for the Dutch economy, the euro area’s fifth-
largest, the ministry said.  The  Liberal Party  of caretaker Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  is
in talks to form a new government with the  Labor party  led by a
former Greenpeace activist, Diederik Samsom. They may reach an
agreement as soon as this week, NOS television reported on Oct.
22, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the situation.  The motion calling on the government to endorse backloading
and deeper changes to the ETS was supported by 94 lawmakers in
the 150-seat parliament yesterday. The Liberals, which have 41
votes, and the  Freedom Party  led by  Geert Wilders , which won 15
seats in the elections, opposed the resolution.  ‘Increasing Pressure’  “There’s an increasing pressure on the government to
change its position,” Eickhout said.  The proposal to delay some auctions of carbon permits in
the EU emissions trading system, or the ETS, will be considered
in the so-called comitology procedure, in which a measure put
forward by the commission needs qualified-majority support from
representatives of national governments to pass. The EU strategy
to curb oversupply also includes a draft amendment to the bloc’s
emissions trading law to reassert the commission’s right to
decide about the timing of auctions.  The commission is planning to propose a specific number of
allowances to be postponed on Nov. 14 and aims for a vote in the
committee before the end of this year. The Netherlands has 13
out of 345 votes in the EU’s weighted ballot system that favors
larger countries. A blocking minority requires 91 votes.  Most member states are still scrutinizing the commission’s
proposal after they voiced reservations about the draft law
change at two meetings in September, an EU presidency official
said on Sept. 24.  Poland , which has repeatedly said it opposes
any measure to “manipulate” the ETS, has 27 votes and
Slovakia, which also signaled resistance, has seven.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  