-- DynCorp Let Off Hook by U.S. for Poor Work, Audit Finds
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-10-25T16:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/dyncorp-let-off-hook-by-u-s-for-poor-work-audit-finds.html
The Army Corps of Engineers freed
DynCorp International Inc., one of the largest U.S. contractors
in  Afghanistan , of responsibility for construction at an Afghan
Army garrison even though long-standing deficiencies remain,
according to an inspector general’s  report .  In a 2010 audit, Pentagon inspectors identified failings at
the camp in northern Afghanistan that included “poor site
grading” and “serious soil stability issues.” Inspectors
returned in March of this year to find “additional structural
failures, improper grading and new sinkholes,” the Special
Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction said in an
audit issued today.  DynCorp, which is owned by affiliates of New York-based
Cerberus Capital Management LP, oversaw the construction at Camp
Pamir in Afghanistan’s Kunduz province. The DynCorp project was
part of a U.S. effort to train and house the Afghan Army, which
is growing this year to 195,000 personnel.  “Despite the unsatisfactory performance of the contractor,
DynCorp,” officials from the Army Corps’s District North region
in Afghanistan “released DynCorp from further contractual
liability,” John Sopko, the inspector general, wrote in today’s
report. The company was paid $70.8 million on the contracts,
“releasing it from any further liabilities and warranty
obligations.”  DynCorp’s Comment  “We absolutely disagree with several of the report’s
conclusions concerning the causes for the issues experienced at
this site,” Ashley Burke, a DynCorp spokeswoman, said today in
an e-mail. “Further, work was completed and this contract was
closed out last year so we are unable to comment on 2012 site
conditions that may or may not exist today.”  DynCorp turned over responsibility for the site in 2011,
and the current occupants have been accountable for maintenance
and care of the facilities since then, Burke said.  Other contractors were doing additional construction and
grading work by the time inspectors returned, she said. The
company was still reviewing the report, which it didn’t see in
advance of its release, Burke said.  Delays at the Kunduz complex hampered training, the special
inspector general found in the April 2010 audit. Afghan troops
had to be housed in temporary facilities that exposed them to
mud, freezing conditions, sewage and unsafe food storage,
auditors told Bloomberg News in June 2010.  The contract release, in the form of a December 2011
settlement, “appears to be on unfavorable terms to the U.S.
Government,” Sopko said.  ‘Questionable’ Terms  Sopko called the settlement terms “questionable” with a
“lack of adequate explanation,” in a cover letter dated today
to U.S. Central Command Commander General James Mattis and U.S.
Forces-Afghanistan commander General John Allen.  Corps of Engineers Transatlantic Division Deputy Commander
Colonel John Hurley said in a written statement included in the
inspector general’s report that the organization “has initiated
an in-depth review of the rationale for the settlement.”  “Many of the key players involved with the settlement are
no longer in country and arrangements are being made to obtain
and evaluate their rationale,” Hurley wrote. The Corps wants to
complete the review by November 9, he said.  Sopko wrote that the camp is “at risk of further
structural failures, the construction contractor is not liable
and further remediation to protect the initial investment” will
require more funds that should be “justified and closely
monitored.”  An example of the lingering deficiencies was found during a
March 25 inspection at an electrical power transformer where
inspectors found “a sinkhole developing and general structural
settling,” according to Sopko’s report.  “Failure of the transformer would result in a loss of
electrical power over a large portion of Camp Pamir, causing
significant financial loss and increasing the risk of injury
through fire and electrical shock,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  