-- The Long and Controversial History of For-Profit Colleges
-- B y   C a i t l i n   R o s e n t h a l
-- 2012-10-25T20:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/the-long-and-controversial-history-of-for-profit-colleges.html
Advertisements touting for-profit
universities are everywhere. Schools such as  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) ’s
University of Phoenix peddle instruction in person and online,
promising that students can earn their degrees on their own
time, in their own homes -- even in their pajamas.  The growth of such institutions has sparked controversy,
partly because of their reliance on federal financial aid and
the high default rates of their students.  A recent congressional  report  found “exorbitant tuition,
aggressive student recruiting and abysmal student outcomes,” all
subsidized by taxpayers. Current regulations allow for-profits
to collect as much as 90 percent of their revenue from federal
financial aid, and many come close. In 2009-2010, the University
of Phoenix  received  more than 86 percent of its revenue --
almost $5.4 billion -- through such funding.  This isn’t the first time for-profit universities have
boomed, nor is it the first time they have stirred up debate. In
the late 19th century, the variety and availability of for-
profit education skyrocketed. By 1871, more than 150 commercial
colleges were operating across the U.S., and by the early 1890s,
estimates went as high as 500.  Practical Instruction  Business education was big business. Bryant & Stratton, a
Midwestern chain founded in 1854, aspired to open a branch in
every American city with more than 10,000 inhabitants. Within a
decade, the company had more than 50 schools and published an
array of popular textbooks. Many were short-lived, but Bryant &
Stratton College was not. Today, it operates 18 campuses in  New
York ,  Ohio ,  Virginia  and  Wisconsin .  Commercial colleges offered practical instruction in
bookkeeping, penmanship, stenography and surveying. They
operated mock bank offices and stock exchanges, teaching clerks
to prepare the many notes and financial instruments that greased
the wheels of the growing economy. Future steel magnate and
philanthropist  Andrew Carnegie  attended night school at a
commercial college to learn bookkeeping.  John D. Rockefeller 
studied accounting, penmanship and banking at Folsom’s
Commercial College in  Cleveland , which survives today as
Chancellor University.  Success stories aside, quality of instruction varied
wildly. Some schools were reputable establishments offering
“able commercial lectures and thorough training,” but others
were, as the U. S. commissioner of education put it in 1872,
“purely business speculations.”  Consider Pittsburgh’s Iron City Commercial College. In
1859, the school claimed to be training four times as many
students as any other in the U.S. However, less than a year
later, the Ohio Statesman reported that the school had “changed
hands under the Sherriff’s hammer” for the “second or third
time” since its opening only four years earlier. The school
“proved a ruinous concern.”  The Michigan Journal of Education agreed that a number of
“inferior schools” had “blazoned forth under the name and style
of the Commercial College.” But they remained confident that
time would sort the good from the bad, and that the commercial
college would “vindicate its title to a permanent place among
the educational institutions of the land.”  By 1897, the U.S. commissioner of education counted 123,913
students in commercial courses in high school and college. Among
the 76,819 collegiate students, more than 92 percent were
enrolled in the new for-profit commercial colleges.  Lifetime Education  The most common form of tuition at these early schools was
the “life scholarship.” Students paid a lump sum in exchange for
unlimited instruction at any of the college’s branches -- $40
for men and $30 for women in 1864. This was a considerable fee,
but much less than tuition at most universities. And it was
within reach of most workers -- common laborers earned about $1
per day and clerks’ wages averaged $50 per month.  Life scholarships appealed to prospective students by
offering what they really wanted: a skill that could lead to a
job. If students found themselves unemployed at the end of their
course, they could continue their education to sharpen their
skills. If they found employment midway through a course, they
could always return later to complete their education.  Modern for-profits, too, fill gaps in the U.S. educational
system.  Recent research  by Harvard economists David Deming,
Claudia Goldin, and Lawrence Katz shows that for-profits educate
proportionately more minority, disadvantaged and older students.
They also have greater success at retaining students during
their first year and in helping them to complete short degree
programs.  But the study also found that students at for-profits
graduate with far higher debt burdens than comparable students
elsewhere. This results from high tuition costs, which don’t
always translate into a better education. For one thing, a good
chunk of it is going to marketing: JPMorgan Chase & Co.
estimated that in 2010 the largest for-profit schools were
spending $4,000 to lure each new student. More problematically,
federal financial-aid policies entice for-profit universities to
 push tuition up  to the maximum aid levels available to students.
While such schools may give poorer students access to much-
needed education, they also encourage them to take on debt that
they will have trouble paying off.  And, unlike the 19th-century schools that sold life
scholarships, modern for-profits don’t continue training
students who can’t find a job. This is especially troublesome
given that students at for-profits are more likely to be
unemployed after graduation.  Edmund James, the first director of the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, characterized early commercial
colleges as “rough” and “primitive,” but he also understood that
they met an “immediate and pressing demand.” As he reflected,
the founder of the first commercial college “waited not to
formulate the problem and to discuss the solution, but bent
himself straight-a-way to furnish the opportunity and to meet
the demand.”  With the rise in online education today, for-profits are
booming again, and regulators are working to rein in their
excesses. Regulatory changes may push some for-profits out of
business, sending them the way of schools such as Iron City
Commercial College. But others may prove as adaptable as the
best of their 19th-century predecessors, surviving to offer
truly affordable education.  ( Caitlin Rosenthal  is the Harvard-Newcomen postdoctoral
fellow at  Harvard Business School . The opinions expressed are
her own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this article: Caitlin Rosenthal at
 caitlinrosenthal@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Timothy
Lavin at  tlavin1@bloomberg.net  or. 