-- Health Companies Sitting on Cash May Mean Bigger Deals
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-10-25T18:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/health-companies-sitting-on-cash-may-mean-bigger-deals.html
Health-care companies sitting on
piles of cash may start doing more deals next year as they seek
products that can bolster sales, said four top U.S. dealmakers.  Pharmaceutical companies in particular, which have led the
industry in deals over the last 12 months, are ready to divert
their focus from cutting costs to making agreements that can
help build product lines, said Jennifer Jarrett, managing
director of  investment banking  at  Citigroup Inc. (C)   “Pharma is turning away from how many synergies they can
squeeze out of a transaction and refocusing on how they can grow
their pipeline,” Jarrett said today at Bloomberg’s  Dealmakers
Summit  in  New York .  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest drugmaker, had $24.3
billion in  cash , near cash and short term investment at the end
of the second quarter, and will get more from the sale and
divestiture of its nutrition and animal health businesses.
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest U.S. health insurer, had
 $14.4 billion , and  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the No. 1 biotechnology company,
had $22.5 billion.  The large amounts of cash on hand may prompt an acquisition
next year larger than New York-based Pfizer’s agreement in April
to sell its nutrition unit to Nestle SA for $11.9 billion.  “I would not be surprised if in 2013 we see one or two
transactions north of $10 billion,” Henry Gosebruch, managing
director of mergers at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said at the summit.  2,076 Deals  In the last 12 months, there have been 2,076 deals
announced for health-care products, services and pharmaceutical
companies valued at $166 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  U.S. companies have been the biggest buyers, with $90.6
billion in purchases. Drugmakers have been the top acquirers in
the sector, with $37.1 billion, followed by insurers with $17.4
billion. The main targets have been biotechnology and genetics
companies, with $22.2 billion in deals announced. Valeant
Pharmaceuticals International Inc., based in  Montreal , was the
most acquisitive company, and announced 14 agreements valued at
$4.12 billion in the past 12 months.  The number of acquisitions may increase next year, said
Robert Glassman,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s managing director of
global health care.  “What tends to drive that is the need, there’s clearly a
need for larger companies who are facing patent cliffs and whose
own R&D machines have not panned out, to find growth,” he said.  Generics Effect  Loss of market exclusivity on drugs to cheaper generic
copies has driven down revenue at top pharmaceutical companies.
Pfizer lost patent protection of its best-selling drug,
cholesterol pill Lipitor, in November -- and along with it about
$10 billion in annual sales. Plavix, the top medicine for
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  with $7.09 billion last year, generated
just $64 million in the third quarter after facing competition
from generic copycats.  Companies may be held back from spending by the prices they
can command for new products. Health insurers and U.S.
government programs including Medicare and Medicaid, which
insure the elderly and poor, respectively, have been pushing
back on rising prices for drugs, services and medical devices,
said the panelists.  “In the old days, all you worried about was clinical
risk,” said Citigroup’s Jarrett. “Now there’s a lot more
regulatory uncertainty and there’s much more commercial
uncertainty. You don’t know whether payers are going to pay for
the drug and you’ll get reimbursement. That’s impacted M&A.”  Those concerns have also meant less venture capital money
going into startup companies that might eventually be acquired,
said Jonathan Leff, managing director of health-care at private
equity firm  Warburg Pincus  in New York.  The number of health-care companies getting venture capital
money is at the lowest level in 17 years, Leff said. “Are we
going to have enough new entrepreneurial companies delivering
these new products?” he said. “The returns on investment in
innovative R&D just haven’t been there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at  
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  