-- ECB Says Private Lending Contracted at Fastest Pace in 3 Years
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-10-25T08:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/ecb-says-private-lending-contracted-at-fastest-pace-in-3-years.html
Lending to households and companies
in the euro area contracted at the fastest pace in almost three
years in September amid a deepening economic slump.  Loans to the private sector fell 0.8 percent from a year
earlier after dropping an annual 0.6 percent in August, the
Frankfurt-based  European Central Bank  said today. That’s the
fifth decline in a row and the steepest since October 2009.
Loans contracted 0.2 percent in the month.  The 17-nation euro economy may have fallen into recession
in the third quarter after shrinking 0.2 percent in the previous
three-month period. While the ECB’s pledge to buy unlimited
bonds of debt-strapped countries has shored up investor
confidence, business sentiment in Germany,  Europe ’s largest
economy, unexpectedly declined in October to the lowest in more
than 2 1/2 years.  “Lending growth is likely to remain weak for quite some
time, partly because we expect the economy to remain weak,”
said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at ABN Amro Bank NV in
Amsterdam. “We’re not seeing any sharp declines in output but
no strong growth either. We don’t expect a sustained uptrend
before the second half of next year.”  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday he expects the
economy to remain weak in the near term before recovering very
gradually in 2013. The  International Monetary Fund  earlier this
month cut its euro-region growth forecast for next year to 0.2
percent from 0.7 percent and said the economy may shrink 0.4
percent this year as governments cut spending.  The rate of growth in M3  money supply , which the ECB uses
as a gauge of future inflation, fell to 2.7 percent in September
from 2.8 percent in August, the ECB said today.  M3 grew 3 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier.
M3 is the broadest gauge of money supply and includes cash in
circulation, some forms of savings and money-market holdings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  