-- Ecuador Wants Talks With U.K. on Health of Wikileaks’s Assange
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-10-25T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/ecuador-wants-talks-with-u-k-on-health-of-wikileaks-s-assange.html
Ecuador wants a meeting with U.K.
officials to discuss WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange’s
declining health as four months in the South American nation’s
embassy in  London  saps the anti-secrecy advocate’s strength.  Ecuador’s Foreign Minister Ricardo Patino said yesterday he
is “concerned” Assange, who has been holed up in the country’s
mission since June, is losing weight and wants the U.K. to
guarantee the Australian citizen’s safe passage to a hospital if
his medical condition worsens, according to a statement
published in the president’s official gazette.  Britain has threatened to arrest Assange and extradite him
to  Sweden , where he’s wanted for questioning over allegations of
sexual misconduct, if he walks out of the embassy near the
Harrods department store in London’s Knightsbridge district.
Assange and Patino also want British and Swedish guarantees they
won’t allow him to be turned over to the U.S., where they say he
could face torture and execution.  Ecuador “is waiting for an official statement by the
British government about what happens in the case of a medical
emergency,” Patino said, according to the statement. “I want
to know what happens if there is a complication in his health.”  Ecuador granted Assange, 41, diplomatic asylum in August
saying he is the victim of political persecution for releasing
thousands of U.S. classified military and diplomatic cables
through WikiLeaks.  ‘Enemy’  The move set off a diplomatic spat with Britain which
refuses to grant him safe passage out of the country.  The U.K. has said it has a “binding obligation” to send
Assange to Sweden after he exhausted options in U.K. courts to
avoid extradition.  London’s  Metropolitan Police Service  has orders to arrest
him if he steps outside the building’s door. Assange hasn’t been
charged with a crime.  Assange said last month that secret U.S. Air Force
 documents  obtained under a Freedom of Information Act request
show the U.S. has designated him as an “enemy.” The
allegations against him became public around the same time he
posted the leaked cables on the Internet.  A telephone message for U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague , left after normal business hours, wasn’t immediately
returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  