-- Hedge Fund Havens Weigh Taxes as Caribbean’s Debt Rivals Greece
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-10-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/hedge-fund-havens-weigh-taxes-as-caribbean-s-debt-rivals-greece.html
From the Cayman Islands to the
Bahamas, hedge fund havens are considering a surprising remedy
for widening deficits -- higher taxes.  The Bahamas is planning a town hall to debate a tax
overhaul that may include the nation’s first income and sales
tax. In the Cayman Islands, which has the highest number of
hedge funds in the Caribbean, Premier McKeeva Bush vowed to
increase registration fees for the industry after foreign
workers balked at a tax on their earnings. Antigua & Barbuda is
targeting self-employed workers for tax evasion, with the
Finance Ministry calling it “high time” to go after cheats.  Hedge funds and other financial companies such as Bain
Capital LLC, co-founded by U.S. presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , have invested in the region to help themselves and their
clients lower their taxes. Yet widening deficits and debt
burdens that rival Greece are causing some Caribbean governments
to reconsider the strategy they used to lure investors in the
first place.  “They are in a Catch-22,” said Carl Ross, managing
director of investments at Oppenheimer & Co. in Atlanta. “If
they start raising taxes on expats and trying to extract more
blood out of the stone, they make it much less attractive to go
there.”  Many countries may not have a choice, said Therese Turner-
Jones, deputy division chief of the Caribbean for the
International Monetary Fund. At least five Caribbean island
nations -- including  Jamaica , Antigua & Barbuda and St. Kitts &
Nevis -- have undergone debt restructurings since 2004. Grenada
missed a Sept. 15 payment on $193 million of bonds before paying
investors within a 30-day grace period.  ‘Quite Serious’  “The debt dynamics are becoming quite serious for a number
of these countries,” said Turner-Jones. “I don’t think
anything is off the table in the current environment.”  Low savings rates relative to other emerging markets and a
high reliance on external debt after the 2008 financial crisis
have taken a “heavy toll” on the region, Standard & Poor’s
said in a May 22 report. Economic growth in the region will
reach 0.9 percent this year, up from a 0.1 percent contraction
in 2011 yet less than the  3.2 percent forecast  for Latin America
and the Caribbean as a whole, the IMF said Oct. 12.  Cayman Islands Premier Bush withdrew his plan for a 10
percent income tax on foreign work permit holders in August
after protests erupted on social networks, with opponents saying
the move was discriminatory. Just over half of the 38,000 people
working in the territory are foreigners and financial services
account for 9.7 percent of jobs, according to the nation’s
 statistics agency .  Tax Shelters  In addition to serving as a base for hedge funds, the
Caymans has also attracted companies such as Facebook Inc. and
Medtronic Inc., which use subsidiaries based there to lower U.S.
tax obligations.  “It went against everything the Caymans stand for,” said
27-year-old Casey Goff, a local who co-founded the group Caymans
United to rally opposition to Bush’s so-called expat tax. “With
all these major companies that are registered here, when you
start taxing employees that allow that registration to be
possible, why come to the Cayman Islands instead of  Bermuda ?”  The Cayman Islands was home to 10,979 funds as of Sept. 30,
up from 9,258 in 2011, according to the country’s monetary
authority. The government cites its “tax neutral” policies for
fueling growth in the financial services sector. Bush, 57, is
now seeking to raise registration and work permit fees to offset
a fiscal deficit of about $17 million in the first quarter.  Island Expenses  Peter Hughes, managing director of Apex Fund Services Ltd,
said he staffs a small office in the Cayman Islands with local
workers to avoid permit fees that cost 70 percent more than his
headquarters in Bermuda.  “Cayman is a good place to do business, but it’s more
expensive,” said Hughes, whose company manages $23 billion, in
a phone interview from Hamilton, Bermuda. “When you’ve got to
pay these big work permit fees it makes a massive difference to
your cost of hiring.”  The Cayman Islands remains the preferred domicile for hedge
funds because of its history of friendly regulation, helping
prevent an exodus of money managers naturally averse to new
taxes, said Richard Coles, the chairman of Cayman Finance, a
trade group.  Cayman Competitors  “The financial world is a realist about this and they
understand that Cayman is in a similar revenue squeeze like
every other country in the world,” Coles, who was the nation’s
attorney general when it enacted laws in 1993 to attract hedge
funds, said in a phone interview. “The Caymans has to raise
fees, but odds are even our competitors are going to have do
exactly the same.”  Cayman Islands  dollar bonds  have returned 5 percent this
year, compared to an average of 15.9 percent for  emerging
markets , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. Dollar debt
sold by the Bahamas has returned 9.4 percent over the same
period.  With a deficit of $504 million in the 2011-2012 budget,
almost double what the government had forecast, the Bahamas also
needs to overhaul taxes to boost revenue, Prime Minister Perry Gladstone Christie said in his 2013  budget proposal .  “Our tax system is inadequate to finance a 21st century
public administration,” Christie, who was elected May 7, said
in his first budget statement. At 19 percent of gross domestic
product, the nation’s tax revenue “pales in comparison to that
in many other countries, where the ratio is in the mid-20
percent to 30 percent range,” he said.  Credit Rating  S&P lowered its credit outlook on the Bahamas to negative
Sept. 24, saying the island’s lack of an income or value-added
tax was limiting the revenue base. The country’s BBB rating, the
second-lowest investment grade ranking, puts it in a category
with Mexico and  Russia .  Bahamian officials, who  created  a Ministry of Financial
Services to promote the country as a destination for investment,
expect resistance to a proposed income tax when debate begins,
said James Smith, a former finance minister who advises the
prime minister. The town hall, scheduled for today, was delayed
because of Hurricane Sandy.  “We should look at all taxes,” said Smith, chairman of
the Nassau-based CFAL investment group. “But historically we
shy away from direct taxes on income, so I don’t think we can
get a consensus on that.”  Elsewhere in the Caribbean, St. Lucia’s 176,000 inhabitants
started paying their first sales tax this month. In Jamaica, the
region’s third-largest economy, the government began taxing
phone calls after the debt-to-GDP ratio climbed to 140 percent
in June, according to the IMF.  Greek-level Burden  St. Kitts & Nevis had the distinction of carrying the
Caribbean’s heaviest debt burden last year at 154 percent of
GDP, the IMF reported. That compares to 161 percent for  Greece ,
according to a May report by the European Commission. The island
nation this year agreed to give hundreds of acres of land to
creditors in exchange for canceling $333 million in domestic
debt, equal to about 45 percent of GDP.  As a result of the Caribbean tax debate and tighter
regulations in the U.S., more hedge funds are inquiring about
relocating to Bermuda, said Cheryl Packwood, the head of
Business Bermuda, a promotion agency.  Bartenders and Accountants  Marla Dukharan, an analyst with RBC Financial Caribbean Ltd
in Trinidad & Tobago, said that Caribbean countries should
consider sales taxes over payroll or income taxes for raising
revenue since almost 40 percent of workers are employed in the
informal sector.  Higher taxes alone may not dissuade hedge funds or other
financial companies from investing in the region.
Christopher Gregory, a 30-year-old investment manager at
Republic Bank Cayman Ltd., said proposed taxes on foreigners are
more likely to affect expatriate accountants, hotel workers and
bartenders than hedge fund managers.  Nevertheless, countries should be wary of taxes that give
funds an incentive to move their business elsewhere, said David
Marchant, founder of  OffshoreAlert , a newsletter that tracks the
offshore financial industry.  “There are only two pillars to the economies of your
typical official financial center -- tourism and international
business,” he said in a phone interview from Boulder,  Colorado .
“And international business is only there because of the
financial incentive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  