-- Medtronic Manipulated Bone Product Data, Senators Say
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-10-25T20:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/medtronic-manipulated-bone-product-data-senators-say.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  ghost-wrote sections
of medical papers and paid physician authors hundreds of
millions of dollars in “consulting fees” to promote its bone-
growth product Infuse, a U.S. Senate investigation found.  Medtronic, the world’s biggest maker of heart-rhythm
devices, helped write, edit and shape at least 11 medical
journal articles about the product, which is used to spur bone
growth after spinal surgery, according to  report  released today
by the Senate Finance Committee.  The doctors and researchers who were the authors of the
studies were part of a $210 million consulting and royalty
payments program by Minneapolis-based Medtronic and never
disclosed their ties or the company’s influence in their papers,
the panel said in its report.  “Medtronic’s actions violate the trust patients have in
their medical care,” Senator Max Baucus, a Montana Democrat and
committee chairman, said in a statement. “Medical journal
articles should convey an accurate picture of the risks and
benefits of drugs and medical devices, but patients are at
serious risk when companies distort the facts the way Medtronic
has.”  Study Results  Sales of Infuse plunged after The Spine Journal published
studies in May 2011 and June 2011 showing the genetically
engineered protein raised the risk of infertility, infections
and cancer. Revenue from the product was $195 million in the
three months ended in January 2011 and fell to $141 million in
the three months ended July 27, the company reported.  The report is likely to be “a public relations nightmare”
for Medtronic at the North American Spine Society meeting taking
place now in  Dallas , said  Glenn Novarro , an analyst for RBC
Capital Markets in New York, in a note to investors. While
Infuse’s sales decline may be bottoming out, the report may push
surgeons to further cut back their use, he said.  Overall, Infuse represents 2 percent to 2.5 percent of
Medtronic’s equity value, he estimated.  Medtronic rose less than 1 percent to $41.88 at 4 p.m. New
York time. The shares have gained 24 percent in the past 12
months.  “Medtronic was involved in drafting, editing, and shaping
the content of medical journal articles authored by its
physician consultants who received significant amounts of money
through royalties and consulting fees from Medtronic,” Baucus
and Senator Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican, said in a
statement. Part of that influence was inserting language into
one study that emphasized the pain caused by a competing
technique to Infuse, the senators said.  2002 Approval  Infuse was approved in 2002 for use in fusing damaged
vertebrae in the lower spine. It has never been approved for the
upper, or cervical spine, where it is now widely used. The Food
and Drug Administration warned surgeons not to use the product
on the cervical spine in July 2008 after learning of
complications in dozens of patients that included trouble
breathing and eating.  More than 140,000 spinal fusion surgeries were performed
with Infuse in 2009, according to the Agency for Healthcare
Research and Quality. Of those, only 21,240 were done using the
product with a technique that’s approved by regulators,
bolstering the contention that more than 85 percent of Infuse’s
use is in patients who aren’t formally cleared to receive it,
the senators said in the report.  Medtronic Rejects  Medtronic rejected many of the report’s findings.  “In particular, Medtronic vigorously disagrees with any
suggestion that the company improperly influenced or authored
any of the peer-reviewed published manuscripts discussed in the
report, or that Medtronic intended to under-report adverse
events,” the company said in a statement. It also said the
payments to doctors were part of a royalties program, not
consulting fees.  The Department of Justice and the Office of the U.S.
Attorney in  Boston  conducted a four-year investigation of the
company’s handling of Infuse marketing and closed the case in
May without any finding, the company said.  The Senate panel, as part of a 16-month probe, said it
reviewed 5,000 documents collected from the company, including
records that detailed payments to the doctors who conducted
research on Infuse. The researchers were aware of the products
risks and failed to disclose them, the committee, which has
jurisdiction over the government health programs Medicare and
Medicaid, said in its report.  Side Effects  Thirteen clinical trials funded by Medtronic reported no
side effects from Infuse, while data provided to the FDA showed
as many as half of patients had complications including
infections, pain, cysts and cancer. The analysis, which sparked
the Senate panel’s investigation, was published in The Spine
Journal in June 2011.  The original reviewers believed there was a bias in the
original studies that had favorable results for Infuse. After
being assured that the data was correct and verified by three
independent researchers, the journal published the work and
didn’t elaborate on the potential financial conflicts, the
report found.  Two of the “independent reviewers” received compensation
from Medtronic, with one getting $7.8 million and the other
$722,000, the committee’s investigation found.  Possible Retraction  The spine journal may send out the studies it published to
an independent reviewing group to help determine if a retraction
is necessary,  Eugene Carragee , chief of spinal surgery at
Stanford School of Medicine in Palo Alto,  California , and
editor-in-chief of The Spine Journal, said in an interview
before the report was published. “The devil is in the
details,” he said.  Harlan Krumholz , a Yale University professor of internal
medicine, epidemiology and public health, is conducting an
independent analysis of Medtronic’s Infuse data funded by a $2.5
million grant from the company. The grant also will pay to
create a database of any patient risks.  “Sometimes what you are reading about in a study may not
be everything,” Krumholz said in an interview before the Senate
committee’s report was released. “We have to change the way
this kind of science has been conducted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  