-- Telefonica Germany Eyes Network Sharing Deal With E-Plus
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i ,   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-10-26T07:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/telefonica-germany-eyes-network-sharing-deal-with-e-plus.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s German unit,
planning an initial public offering in  Frankfurt  next week, is
considering sharing its mobile-phone network with  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s
local E-Plus business to lower costs.  “When people were looking at a potential coming together
of Telefonica Deutschland and E-Plus, there was some significant
analysis of potential network synergies,” Rachel Empey, chief
financial officer of  Telefonica Deutschland Holding AG (O2D) , told
investors on a conference call yesterday. “Quite a lot of those
synergies might be available through network sharing.”  Sharing wireless equipment or frequencies would help the
two operators, which vie for the number three spot in  Germany 
behind  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , run more
efficiently after they abandoned talks for a merger this year. A
sharing agreement could also help Telefonica to reach a better
valuation for its Munich-based unit, whose IPO is scheduled for
Oct. 30 and from which it seeks to raise as much as 1.68 billion
euros ($2.2 billion).  Telefonica Deutschland today narrowed the  price range  of
the sale to 5.5 euros to 6 euros a share, compared with 5.25 to
6.5 euros previously, according to terms of the deal obtained by
Bloomberg News. The company has received orders for all the
stock it’s selling in the new range and the deal is expected to
be completed Oct. 29 at 1 p.m. U.K. time, the terms show.
Listing in Frankfurt is scheduled the following day.  ‘Closer Look’  Telefonica Deutschland told investors yesterday it could
share network infrastructure with E-Plus that runs second-
generation and faster third-generation networks, adding that
it’s in talks with two out of its three rivals and that a deal
probably won’t be reached before early next year.  “We’re generally open to ideas for cooperation,” said E-
Plus spokesman  Guido Heitmann . “Whenever we see opportunities,
we’ll have a closer look.”  Telefonica fell 1.2 percent to 10.07 euros at 9:04 a.m. in
Madrid. The stock is down 25 percent this year, cutting the
company’s market value to 45.9 billion euros.  A hypothetical merger of E-Plus and Telefonica Deutschland
could generate synergies worth about 4 billion euros, according
to a document prepared by one of the banks managing the IPO and
obtained by  Bloomberg News . KPN last year said that such a deal
may generate 3 billion euros of synergies.  Asset Sales  Telefonica Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta is
reversing a decade-long international expansion of the Madrid-
based company by selling assets, including parts of its Latin
American business, as he seeks to avert a further debt-rating
cut for a company that has more than 58 billion euros of net
debt.  The Spanish operator is considering more deals to share
parts of local mobile-phone networks following an agreement to
set up a 50-50 venture in the U.K. with Vodafone, a person with
knowledge of the matter said in June. The U.K. venture follows a
more extensive merger by Deutsche Telekom and  France Telecom ,
which pooled their British wireless assets and brands into
Everything Everywhere in 2010.  Telefonica and KPN, the biggest phone companies of  Spain 
and the Netherlands respectively, had explored a combination of
their German units as the former Dutch phone monopoly was
fending off an unsolicited offer by  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil
SAB. (AMXL)   America Movil  reached the 28 percent stake it sought in KPN
in June.  ‘Competitive Independence’  Telefonica Deutschland doesn’t see any major regulatory
barriers to the deals it’s exploring, said a person familiar
with the management’s plans, who asked not to be named because
the discussions are private.  Germany’s Federal Network Agency, which could block a deal
if “competitive independence” may be harmed, in principle
allows the operation of common infrastructure or the sharing of
frequencies. Such agreements may also have to be reviewed by
Germany’s cartel office.  Telefonica Deutschland told investors yesterday it may seek
to split spending on wireless equipment for the 800 megahertz
spectrum with other operators. Those frequencies were obtained
in 2010 by Telefonica, Deutsche Telekom and Vodafone to blanket
rural areas with faster long-term evolution, or LTE,
connections. E-Plus didn’t purchase that spectrum during the
auction.  Telefonica is offering as many as 258.8 million shares of
Telefonica Deutschland at 5.25 euros to 6.50 euros each. The IPO
values the German business at as much as 7.3 billion euros. Most
orders for the IPO were coming in the mid- to low-end of the
price range, two people familiar with the matter told Bloomberg
News on Oct. 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  