-- Emanuel Steward, Hall of Fame Boxing Trainer for Hearns, Dies
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/emanuel-steward-hall-of-fame-trainer-for-hearns-dies-at-68.html
Emanuel Steward, who trained Thomas Hearns, Lennox Lewis, Wladimir Klitschko and other boxing
champions as he built  Detroit ’s Kronk Gym into one of the most
influential centers in the sport, has died at the age of 68.  The death was announced last night by HBO Sports, where
Steward worked as a boxing analyst for 11 years.  Steward had an undisclosed illness for several months and
his sister, Diane Steward-Jones, was quoted by the  Detroit Free
Press  on Oct. 25 as saying he recently had surgery for
diverticulitis, which affects the large intestine. She told the
newspaper that he died yesterday with family members at his side.  Steward was one of the most successful and influential
trainers in boxing, earning induction into the  International
Boxing Hall of Fame  in 1996. He’s also a member of the World
Boxing Hall of Fame and had worked since 2001 as a boxing
commentator for Time Warner Inc.’s  HBO .  “For more than a decade, Manny was a respected colleague
who taught us so much not only about the sweet science but also
about friendship and loyalty,” HBO Sports Ken Hershman said in
a statement. “His energy, enthusiasm and bright smile were a
constant presence. Ten bells do not seem enough to mourn his
passing. His contributions to the sport and to HBO will never be
forgotten. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family.”  Steward was born in Bottom Creek,  West Virginia , on July 7,
1944, and moved to Detroit with his mother when his parents
separated. In an effort to avoid the gangs in Detroit, Steward
began training at the Brewster Recreation Center -- the former
sports home of Joe Louis and Eddie Futch -- at age 12 after
receiving a pair of boxing gloves as a gift.  Amateur Record  Steward had an amateur record of 94 wins and three losses,
and at the age of 18 won a 1963 National Golden Gloves title in
the bantamweight division (115-118 pounds).  Steward considered turning professional before taking a job
with a Detroit electrical company after failing to find what he
considered to be an honest manager, according to the  Kronk Gym
Foundation’s website . He remained close to the sport and in 1971
accepted a part-time position as coach of the boxing program at
the Kronk Recreation Center.  Steward’s young boxers dominated the Detroit Golden Gloves
competition that year, winning seven championships, and in 1972
he left his job as an electrician to become a full-time trainer
and manager at Kronk. Steward built Kronk Gym into a national
power by the mid-70s and two of his charges, Hearns and Hilmer
Kenty, turned professional in 1977 as he served as both trainer
and manager.  The Hitman  Kenty became Steward’s first world champion in 1980 when he
captured the WBA lightweight crown. Hearns, a fellow Hall of
Famer nicknamed “The Hitman,” won championship belts in five
weight classes, the most accomplished of the more than 30 world
champions under Steward’s tutelage.  Steward-Jones was quoted by the Free Press as saying that
her brother, who had been in a Chicago hospital, still tried to
recruit male nurses and other medical staff to box in his final
days.  “They loved him,” Steward-Jones said, according to the
newspaper. “He’d tell them to lose some weight and fight for
him.”  Steward also worked with champions such as Evander Holyfield, Julio Cesar Chavez and Oscar De La Hoya, according to
his International Boxing Hall of Fame  profile .  While Detroit’s original Kronk Gym was closed by the city
in 2006 because of financial problems, Steward opened a new
facility under the same name in nearby Oakland County,  Michigan ,
in 2009, helping provide recreational facilities as well as
mentoring and tutoring for youth in Metro Detroit.  Steward had worked most recently with Klitschko, a 36-year-
old Ukranian who holds the World Boxing Association,
International Boxing Federation, World Boxing Organization and
International Boxing Organization heavyweight titles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  