-- Emerging Stocks Gain on Earnings as Batista Share Plan Lifts OGX
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-10-25T21:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/emerging-stocks-rise-led-by-consumer-companies-hyundai-jumps.html
Developing-nation stocks rose for
the first time in three days as companies from  Vale SA (VALE3)  to
Hyundai Motor surged after reporting earnings that beat
analysts’ estimates.  Vale, the world’s biggest iron-ore producer, jumped in Sao
Paulo after recurring earnings topped estimates, pushing the
 Bovespa Index (IBOV)  to its steepest gain in two weeks. Hyundai Motor,
South Korea’s largest carmaker, climbed the most in six weeks in
Seoul.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  rose after saying
billionaire  Eike Batista  may buy $1 billion of new shares.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 0.5 percent to
999.12 at the close of trading in New York, led by consumer and
material stocks. The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index 
exchange-traded fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares,
gained 1 percent. Of the companies in the MSCI  gauge  that
reported quarterly results today, 50 percent beat analysts’
estimates, compared with 36 percent this month through
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Some better-than-expected earnings have helped general
sentiment,”  Neil Shearing , chief emerging markets economist at
Capital Economics Ltd., said by phone from London. “The big
risks to the market come from Europe.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.7 percent as a leading
gauge for the Chinese economy rose at a slower pace in
September. Taiwan’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  dropped 0.7 percent, slipping
for a fifth day. Moscow’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 0.4 percent to the
lowest level since Oct. 15. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP) 
advanced 0.1 percent before the central bank announced it was
cutting  interest rates  to a record low. The Bovespa climbed 1.2
percent.  Philippine Cut  Philippine bonds climbed before Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas
cut the rate it pays lenders for overnight deposits by 25 basis
points, or 0.25 percentage point, to boost economic growth. The
yield on the 12.25 percent securities due October 2014 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to the lowest
level since Oct. 10, according to closing prices at Philippine
Dealing & Exchange Corp.  The South African rand strengthened 0.5 percent to 8.7425
per dollar, the first advance in three days. South African
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  announced plans to curb spending
over the next three years in his mid-term budget released today.
The Chilean peso and Indian rupee also climbed.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, dropped 3.1 percent.  The MSCI emerging-market index trades for 11.6 times
forward earnings, compared with a multiple of 13.1 times for the
 MSCI World Index (MXWO) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Selective Approach’  The number of Americans filing first-time applications for
unemployment benefits fell by 23,000 to 369,000 in the week
ended Oct. 20 from a revised 392,000 the prior period, the Labor
Department reported today in Washington.  Growth in China’s leading index for the economy slowed to
0.3 percent last month, the Conference Board, a New York-based
research group, said in a statement today. The pace compared
with a 1.7 percent gain in August.  “Investors are taking a selective approach toward emerging
markets amid prospects of a slowdown in China, while the U.S.
economy remains weak,” said Fitzgerald Aclan, who helps manage
$20 billion at Manila-based BDO Unibank Inc.  Hyundai Motor (005380)   gained  3.9 percent in Seoul, the largest
increase since Sept. 14. Third-quarter net income climbed 13
percent to 2.17 trillion won ($2 billion) in the three months
ended Sept. 30, the company said today. That beat the 2.05
trillion won average of analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Orlen, Vale  PKN Orlen SA (PKN) , Poland’s largest oil refiner, rose 1 percent
after the company posted profit of 1.37 billion zloty ($427
million) in the third quarter, beating the 1.02 billion zloty
median estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Vale surged 5.6 percent after recurring earnings topped
analysts’ estimates, signaling that efforts to cut costs and
delay projects is paying off. Bradespar SA, Banco Bradesco SA’s
investment arm that is part of the group that controls Vale,
jumped 5.9 percent, its biggest one-day gain in a year and the
steepest advance in the MSCI index.  OGX Surges  OGX, a Rio de Janeiro-based oil producer controlled by
Batista, gained 2.6 percent. The billionaire granted a put
option that would require him to buy as much as $1 billion of
new stock in the company at a 36 percent premium.  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL)  jumped the most in almost six weeks in
London after Russian billionaire  Alisher Usmanov ’s Internet
company boosted revenue and sold a portion of its Facebook Inc.
holding. The company’s sales surged 37 percent to 4.97 billion
rubles ($159 million) in the third quarter.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore energy explorer, rose
1.4 percent in Hong Kong after saying third-quarter oil and gas
production increased. Samsung Electro-Mechanics Co. surged 3.9
percent in Seoul, the most since July 31, after reporting profit
in the third quarter following a year-earlier loss.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 276 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in  London  at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  