-- LeMond Asks for UCI’s McQuaid to Resign, USA Cycling Boycott
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-25T19:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/lemond-calls-for-uci-s-mcquaid-to-resign-usa-cycling-boycott.html
Three-time Tour de  France  champion
 Greg LeMond  called on International Cycling Union head Pat McQuaid to quit and for riders to skip buying race licenses from
USA Cycling, saying he was in a “rage” over possible
corruption in the sport.  “I want to tell the world of cycling to please join me in
telling Pat McQuaid to resign,” LeMond, who won cycling’s most
prestigious race in 1986, 1989 and 1990, said on  Facebook . “The
sport does not need Pat McQuaid or Hein Verbruggen -- if this
sport is going to change it is now. Not next year, not down the
road, now! Now or never!”  McQuaid, from Ireland, is the president of the group, also
known by the French acronym UCI. Verbruggen, from the
Netherlands, was president from 1991 to 2005 and has since been
an honorary president.  Enrico Carpani, a UCI spokesman, declined to comment on
LeMond’s letter in an e-mail.  LeMond’s comments follow UCI’s decision Oct. 22 not to
appeal the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency’s decision to strip  Lance Armstrong ’s record seven Tour de France titles and ban him from
competition in sanctioned events after Armstrong declined to
contest doping allegations. Armstrong, 41, has denied
performance-enhancing drug use and said he never failed a drug
test.  “Lance Armstrong has no place in cycling,” McQuaid said
at a news conference when revealing UCI’s decision. “He
deserves to be forgotten in cycling.”  Doping Evidence  With USADA, based in  Colorado Springs ,  Colorado , providing
more than 1,000 pages of evidence that doping was rife in the
sport, McQuaid knew what was going on, LeMond said.  “You are the epitome of the word corruption,” he wrote
about McQuaid.  UCI, based in Aigle,  Switzerland , has faced allegations
that it helped Armstrong cover up a suspicious drug test at the
2001 Tour of Switzerland, assertions McQuaid and Verbruggen
denied. Armstrong later donated $125,000 to the group to help
the fight against doping, UCI confirmed this week, according to
the Britain’s  Telegraph  newspaper.  LeMond, the first American to win the  Tour de France , has
long been a critic of Armstrong. He said in 2004 he no longer
supported his countryman following doping allegations in the
book “L.A. Confidential: The Secrets of Lance Armstrong,”
according to the French newspaper Le Monde.  The 51-year-old LeMond also urged riders not to buy racing
licenses from USA Cycling and for them to “give up racing for a
year, just long enough to put the UCI and USA cycling out of
business.” USA Cycling is the sport’s American governing body.  “We can then start from scratch and let the real lovers in
cycling direct where and how the sport of cycling will go,” he
said.  USA Cycling  USA Cycling, which ceded its role investigating and
punishing dopers when USADA was created in 2000, responded in an
e-mailed statement, saying it is not responsible for drug
testing and anti-doping control and that no license fees
collected from the thousands of national events it sanctions
each year are sent to UCI.  “LeMond’s suggestion that cyclists abandon USA Cycling is
misguided and betrays a fundamental misunderstanding of USA
Cycling’s role in the national and international cycling
community,” the statement said. “Indeed, USA Cycling has
evolved significantly since Mr. LeMond’s retirement from cycling
in 1994 and, frankly, Mr. LeMond would be gratified to learn
that cycling within the  United States  today is actually governed
in the manner he heralds.”  Tyler Hamilton , a former teammate who testified to USADA
that he and Armstrong doped during their cycling careers, also
called this week for McQuaid to  step down .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  