-- Memphis Grizzlies’ Sale to Pera Group Is Approved by NBA Owners
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-25T17:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/memphis-grizzlies-sale-to-pera-group-is-approved-by-nba-owners.html
The Memphis Grizzlies’ sale to a
group led by  Ubiquiti Networks Inc. (UBNT)  Chief Executive Officer
Robert Pera was approved by the National Basketball
Association’s Board of Governors.  The approval made actor/singer  Justin Timberlake  and Denver
Broncos quarterback  Peyton Manning  and his wife, Ashley,
Grizzlies minority owners.  The board, comprised of ownership representatives from the
league’s 30 franchises, voted unanimously to approve the sale,
the NBA said in a statement.  “Robert will no doubt bring great energy and passion to
the franchise,” NBA Commissioner  David Stern  said in a
statement. “He has assembled an ownership group with very
strong local ties and we anticipate that their commitment to the
Memphis area will greatly benefit both the team and the
community.”  Pera, 34, committed to keeping the Grizzlies in Memphis
when he agreed to purchase the franchise from Michael Heisley in
June. Completion of the sale required approval by 75 percent
approval.  Timberlake and Ashley Manning are Memphis area natives,
while other investors include former NBA player Penny Hardaway,
according to the Memphis Commercial Appeal.  The agreement is worth $350 million, ESPN reported in June,
citing people with knowledge of Heisley’s plan. The Grizzlies
are worth $269 million, according to Forbes’ annual list of
franchise valuations, among NBA franchises.  Pera’s stake in  San Jose , California-based Ubiquiti is
worth about $700 million, after topping $2 billion on May 1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The wireless-network
equipment company went public in October 2011.  Playoff Team  The Grizzlies, who moved from Vancouver in 2001, went 41-25
during the lockout-shortened 2011-12 NBA season, falling to the
 Los Angeles Clippers  in the first round of the playoffs.  The NBA yesterday announced that its All-Star Game ballots
will now prompt fans to vote for two guards and three
“frontcourt” players. Fans previously picked two guards, two
forwards and one center.  “Having the center position as the only specific position
singled out on the ballot was outdated and not representative of
today’s game or players,” Stu Jackson, the NBA’s executive vice
president of basketball operations, said in a statement. “Our
players have become more versatile each season, and this ballot
will more accurately reflect that versatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  