-- Tennenbaums’ $10 Million Aids Smithsonian Sea Plan: Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/tennebaums-10-million-aids-smithsonian-sea-plan-scene.html
Hedge-fund manager Michael Tennenbaum showed a photograph of his encounter with an
eagle ray with a 15-foot tail while discussing the $10 million
gift he and his wife, Suzanne, have made to the Smithsonian 
Institution.  The donation, which the institute is announcing today, will
launch the Smithsonian’s Tennenbaum Marine Observatories
initiative. The project aims to create the first global database
for scientists studying the ocean’s coastal ecosystems and their
impact on the planet’s health.  Sporting a bowtie and blue-framed eyeglasses, the 77-year-
old Tennenbaum paged through a photo book of his underwater
adventures that showed him also frolicking with reef sharks and
kissing dolphins.  “The engineering part in me admires efficiency. Sharks and
dolphins are hugely efficient,” said Tennenbaum in an interview
in the Smithsonian Castle in Washington earlier this week.  A certified diver for 25 years, these days Tennenbaum
mostly sticks to his pool in Malibu,  California . The $10 million
gift will help scientists do the diving.  The project will measure the volume and diversity of marine
organisms initially in waters off  Panama ,  Maryland ,  Florida  and
Belize. A Smithsonian spokesman said the goal is to add 10 more
research sites in the next decade.  Tennenbaum, a member of the Smithsonian’s National Board,
and the institution’s secretary, G. Wayne Clough, discussed the
project while sitting beneath a 1907 seascape by Frederick Waugh
titled “Southwesterly Gale, St. Ives.”  Fishing Friends  The two Southern-bred, Georgia Tech alumni have been
friends for almost 20 years, fishing and hunting together often.
In 2004, when Clough was Georgia Tech’s president, Tennenbaum
gave the Atlanta university $5 million to establish a
multidisciplinary institute.  Clough (pronounced “cluff”) is “the biggest shakedown
artist I’ve ever met,” Tennenbaum joked, clutching a cup of
coffee from the Smithsonian’s cafe.  Tennenbaum for decades trolled the financial markets. In
1996, after 32 years at Bear Stearns, he founded the Santa
Monica, California-based hedge fund Tennenbaum Capital Partners
LLC, where he’s a senior managing partner.  Both he and Clough have a passion for reversing climate
change and helping the state of the oceans.  “The oceans are in a danger zone; they’re victims of rapid
change,” Clough said, noting that 50 percent of the ocean’s
reefs are gone.  He estimates that the Marine Observatories initiative will
cost $40 million in the long term. The federally funded
Smithsonian has made an initial $500,000 allocation.  “I’m giving 20 times what the federal government is
giving,” Tennenbaum said, joking about himself as being part of
“that nasty 1 percent.”  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include:  Jason Harper  on autos, Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 