-- EON, RWE Said to Sell Nuclear JV for About $967 Million
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-10-26T09:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/eon-rwe-said-to-sell-nuclear-jv-for-about-967-million.html
EON AG (EOAN)  and  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s two
largest utilities, are set to sell their U.K. venture Horizon
Nuclear Power to Japan’s  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  for about 600 million
pounds ($967 million), people familiar with the matter said.  The sale for the venture with government backing to build
plants in Wales and western England may be signed in the next
few days, according to two people, who asked not to be
identified because the negotiations are private. An announcement
may come on Oct. 30, one of the people said.  The deal would be a boost for the U.K. government, which is
seeking to spur new reactors to replace aging power plants,
upgrade grids and cut pollution at a cost of 110 billion pounds.
EON and RWE decided to sell Horizon after  Germany  said it will
close all of its reactors following last year’s disaster in
Japan, prompting the utilities to pull back from the nuclear
industry worldwide.  Keisaku Shibatani, a spokesman for Hitachi, said the
company had put in a bid and declined to comment further.
Officials at RWE and EON declined to comment. An official at the
U.K. Department of Energy and Climate Change said that while the
deal was a commercial matter for RWE and EON, there had been
strong interest in buying Horizon.  No Nuclear Target  While Britain has no specific target for new nuclear,
industry has set out plans to build  16 gigawatts  of new reactors
by 2025. The U.K. has designated  eight sites  for plants. The
program appeared to unravel when Areva SA and China Guangdong
Nuclear Power Group Co. decided against bidding for Horizon this
month and  SSE Plc (SSE)  earlier gave up plans. That left  Electricite
de France SA (EDF) ,  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA as the only
developers advancing U.K. nuclear plans.  “It’s the best news that one can imagine at this stage,
but it’s not a guarantee that new nuclear is going to go
ahead,” said Malcolm Grimston, an analyst at the Chatham House
research group in London.  Guarantee Prices  The atomic program will hinge on legislation overhauling
the  electricity market  including contracts that guarantee prices
for power, Grimston said. Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  will put his
final proposals for an Energy Bill before Parliament next month.  DECC is currently negotiating with EDF on the commercial
terms of the U.K.’s first atomic project since the 1980s. EDF
said Oct. 23 a final investment decision for the Somerset-based
reactors required more progress and a compeling business case.  Hitachi’s Advanced Boiling Water Reactor, which it makes
with General Electric Co., has been licensed in the U.S., Taiwan
and Japan. While it is yet to seek U.K. approval through a
process known as  Generic Design Assessment , the reactor
equipment already operates in Japan.  Regulator Approvals  “In terms of global positioning of the technology, it’s
ahead of the game,” Grimston said by phone. “Inherently, you’d
think that it would be easier to get a GDA for a case where the
inspectors can actually look at one working.”  A team comprising Westinghouse Electric Co. and China’s
State Nuclear Power Technology Corp. was also expected to bid
for the Horizon venture. Westinghouse’s AP1000 model and a
design by  Areva SA (AREVA) , called the European Pressurized Reactor,
received “interim” approvals from British regulators on Dec.
14 under the GDA process.  Westinghouse U.K. Chief Executive Officer Mike Tynan said
on Sept. 27 that his company had paused the process until it has
a British customer while Areva’s EPR continues to answer
questions identified by regulators.  With EON’s planned withdrawal from the Fennovoima Oy
nuclear reactor in Finland announced this week neither EON nor
RWE are involved in any more new building of nuclear power
plants. The U.K. is one of only three western European nations
pursuing new reactors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  