-- Merkel’s Swiss Tax Pact Faces Veto as SPD Flexes Pre-Vote Power
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-10-25T15:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/merkel-s-swiss-tax-pact-faces-veto-as-spd-flexes-pre-vote-power.html
German lower-house lawmakers backed
a  tax treaty  with  Switzerland  that the opposition says it will
veto, illustrating Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s crimped power to
set the national agenda even as she leads in polls before next
year’s national elections.  The proposed  accord  against  tax evasion , backed by Merkel
and Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , is fueling a proxy
conflict between the Social Democrat-led opposition and Merkel’s
coalition parties, which lost their upper-house majority through
a succession of state election defeats since 2010. The draft
cannot become law until it wins approval in the upper house,
where the opposition is refusing to pass it without changes.  “This treaty must take effect on Jan. 1, 2013, or it will
fail,” Schaeuble told lawmakers in a speech to the lower house,
the Bundestag, in Berlin today. “You won’t get another one in
the foreseeable future.” The opposition is rejecting the pact
“for reasons of party tactics,” he said.  While Merkel is Germany’s most popular politician and her
 Christian Democratic Union  leads the SPD in all polls, the CDU
has lost ground in cities and regions as voters vented anger at
euro-area bailouts, incumbents retired and support collapsed for
her Free Democratic allies.  Last weekend, Merkel’s party lost the mayor’s office in
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s home town of Stuttgart it had held since 1974.
Merkel campaigns tomorrow in Karlsruhe, the southwestern city
where polls suggest the CDU will lose the mayoral race to a
candidate backed by the Social Democrats and the Greens.  Green Rise  Karlsruhe is near the Swiss border in Baden-Wuerttemberg, a
state that luxury carmakers Daimler and  Porsche SE (PAH3)  call home.
Merkel’s party lost 2011 elections there after 58 years of
uninterrupted rule, making Winfried Kretschmann Germany’s first
Green state premier. Former Greens national leader Fritz Kuhn
won the mayoral race on Oct. 21 in Stuttgart, the state capital.  The German-Swiss tax treaty has spurred conflict between
Merkel and her political foes as elections due by the fall of
2013 move closer. State election losses by Merkel’s  Christian
Democrats  since 2010 have left the two main opposition parties,
the SPD and Greens, in control of the upper house of parliament.  The deal with Switzerland legalizes tax evasion and “is an
obstacle in the fight against  tax havens ,” Social Democratic
lawmaker Joachim Poss told the Bundestag. He said his SPD and
the Greens will likely reject the treaty in the upper house, the
Bundesrat, where Germany’s states are represented. The chamber
will probably vote on the tax treaty on Nov. 23.  Latest Poll  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc is ahead nationally with
38 percent support and would need to replace the Free Democrats
as coalition partner to have a parliamentary majority, according
to a weekly Forsa poll on Oct. 24. The  Social Democrats  polled
27 percent and the Greens 12 percent. The poll of 2,500 people
has a margin of error of as many as 2.5 percentage points.  Those scores, if replicated at the federal election due in
September next year, would give neither of the two main blocs
enough seats to form a government, leaving a “grand coalition”
between Merkel’s party and the SPD as the most likely scenario.  Wrangling over the treaty has centered on provisions for
taxing assets previously hidden by Germans in Swiss bank
accounts, which the opposition says are too lenient because it
would keep client identities secret. Signed by both governments
in September 2011, the treaty was changed in April as Schaeuble
sought to address opposition demands.  The pact would let  Germany  reap about 10 billion euros ($13
billion) in retroactive taxes alone, CDU lawmakers Klaus-Peter Flosbach and Olav Gutting said in an Oct. 17 statement, citing a
Finance Ministry estimate.  Failure to ratify the treaty in Germany would be a “very
bad precedent” and a missed opportunity, Merkel said on Sept.
17. Buying CDs with stolen bank data on German tax cheats, as
German state officials have done, “can’t be a solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  