-- Hertz Bid For Dollar Thrifty Runs Into Headwinds at FTC
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-10-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/hertz-bid-for-dollar-thrifty-runs-into-headwinds-at-ftc.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) ’s bid for
antitrust clearance to buy Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc.
has met resistance at the U.S. Federal Trade Commission,
according to people familiar with the situation.  An understanding that the deal could be approved with
conditions, reached with the FTC’s Bureau of Competition, faces
opposition at the agency’s Bureau of Economics, where some
staffers think the $2.6 billion merger should be blocked, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the matter
isn’t public. The two bureaus submit their recommendations to
the five-member commission, which makes the final decision.  Hertz, based in Park Ridge, New Jersey, announced the
acquisition on Aug. 26 and it said it expected FTC approval by
mid-October. On Oct. 18, Hertz extended the deadline for the FTC
to rule on the transaction to Nov. 16 from Oct. 31 because the
agency needed more time to complete its review.  “We’re maybe at the last hour, and now the FTC apparently
wants to look at more information,” Fred Lowrance, a Nashville,
Tennessee-based analyst at Avondale Partners LLC, said in an
interview. “It’s a little surprising and frustrating that the
process continues to drag on this long.”  Hertz, which has sought to take over  Dollar Thrifty (DTG)  for
more than five years, agreed to sell its Advantage brand to
address FTC concerns that the deal would crimp competition in
the rental-car market, the people said.  Shares Fall  Dollar Thrifty, based in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , fell 6.3 percent
to $79.24 in  New York  trading, the biggest drop since August
2011. Hertz dropped 4.5 percent to $13.67, the biggest decline
since July 24.  Hertz offered Dollar Thrifty investors $87.50 a share. The
difference between the offer price and Dollar Thrifty’s stock
price widened to $8.26 from 28 cents on Sept. 4, a sign risk
arbitrage investors are less confident the deal will get done.  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the status of the agency’s review. Richard Broome, a Hertz
spokesman, also declined to comment.  Hertz began its pursuit of Dollar Thrifty in April 2007. In
2010, it made a formal bid of about $1.2 billion, which  Dollar
Thrifty shareholders  rejected. Another offer last year was
withdrawn as a result of market conditions, the company said.  As part of the latest agreement to buy Tulsa, Oklahoma-
based Dollar Thrifty, Hertz committed to selling its Advantage
brand to  Franchise Services of North America Inc. (FSN)  and Macquarie
Group Ltd.’s Macquarie Capital.  FTC Probe  FTC investigators are continuing to interview competitors
about the deal’s potential impact, while Howard Shelanski, the
new director of the Bureau of Economics, is reviewing the case
and hasn’t submitted his office’s formal recommendation to the
commission, the people said.  The Bureau of Economics’ position could be more influential
than usual because of Shelanski, who is both an economist and a
lawyer, the people said. Shelanski, who was nominated to the
post in May, is also a law professor at Georgetown University.
He previously served at the FTC as deputy director of the Bureau
of Economics from 2009-2011 and is highly respected within the
agency, the people said.  Lawyers for both Hertz and the FTC have started preparing
for litigation in case the FTC sues to block the deal, one of
the people said.  Under its merger agreement with  Dollar Thrifty , Hertz is
obliged to do everything it can to conclude the takeover,
including litigating against any injunction or other attempt to
block the deal.  More Questions  A non-voting meeting of the agency’s commissioners last
week yielded more questions about the transaction, the people
said. A final decision requires the votes of three of the
agency’s five commissioners.  “Until the commission decides, there may be a lot of
information that keeps coming to light and keeps getting looked
at,” said Roxann Henry, a partner with Morrison Foerster LLP in
Washington. “After two years, they are going to make certain
they have all the facts and don’t get it wrong.”  Some regulators at the FTC are concerned consumers will be
hurt particularly at airport locations by further concentration
in the industry, the people said.  Market Players  If the Dollar Thrifty deal is approved, the U.S. rental-car
industry will have shrunk in the past half-decade from five
major companies to three, highlighted by Enterprise Holdings
Inc.’s 2007 acquisition of Vanguard Car Rental Group Inc., owner
of the National and Alamo brands.  The four largest companies -- Enterprise, Hertz,  Avis
Budget Group Inc. (CAR)  and Dollar Thrifty -- control 80 percent of
the U.S. market, according to market researcher IBISWorld.  The number of U.S. rental-car locations has fallen to
17,037 this year from a peak of 17,331 in 2007, IBISWorld said
in a report on the U.S. market in February. That number will
decline to 16,878 by 2017, Santa Monica, California-based
IBISWorld estimates.  “Companies will only need to give the commission more time
when there are unresolved issues,” said William Vigdor, an
antitrust lawyer with Vinson & Elkins LLP in Washington, who
served at the FTC for six years. “Clearly the jury is still out
on whether the transaction will be approved.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at   sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net . 