-- Messi With a Mohawk Lures Brazil’s Richest Man to World Cup Gold
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-10-25T23:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/messi-with-a-mohawk-lures-brazil-s-richest-man-to-world-cup-gold.html
Brazilian soccer phenom Neymar
curled a shot inside the near post and leaped into the air. The
goal that helped his Santos team win the 2011 South American
club championship wowed five executives from Japanese video game
company  Konami Corp. (9766) , who were in the stands.  “The way that the crowd was reacting and the next couple
days all the media talking about how great Neymar was, he
reminded us of Messi when he was a lot younger,” said Erik
Bladinieres, Konami’s director for Latin America, referring to
FC Barcelona’s Lionel Messi, the three-time top world player of
the year. “That’s when we decided we wanted to have him.”  Konami struck a deal to putNeymar da Silva Santos Jr. and
his signature Mohawk on the cover of its Pro Evolution Soccer
game throughout the region, joining a parade of multinationals
including  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Unilever NV (UNA)  that have
signed the 20-year-old star.  Eike Batista , Brazil’s richest man,
recruited Neymar for his venture with IMG Worldwide Inc. that
will steer his career in Brazil and beyond.  It’s the beyond part that could prove tricky. While Neymar
is the top-paid player in Brazil -- the host country of the 2014
World Cup -- he’s yet to prove himself against the world’s top
talent, so a premature move to  Europe  could jeopardize his money
machine, said Stephen Greyser, a Harvard Business School
marketing professor specializing in sports business.  Neymar has already had a taste of the perils involved. He
failed to score in the 2012 Olympics semifinals and final, which
Brazil lost to underdog  Mexico . In the  Tokyo  final of the 2011
Club World Cup, Neymar’s team went scoreless, while Messi had
two goals in Barcelona’s 4-0 win.  “Why would he want to risk going to Europe now and
potentially demystifying the mystique?” Greyser said in an
interview last month in  Boston .  Pele’s Footsteps  Neymar was born in Mogi das Cruzes, a factory city outside
Sao Paulo, with soccer in his veins. His father, a former lower-
division player, worked several jobs simultaneously while
teaching his son the game. He enrolled in the academy at Santos,
making his debut for the club made famous by Pele, one of his
role models, at the age of 17. On Oct. 17, he played his 200th
game for the club, scoring his 119th career goal.  He is well-positioned in Brazil, which for the second
straight year topped consulting firm A.T. Kearney’s ranking of
the hottest emerging retail markets. Last season he made an
estimated 13.8 million euros ($18 million) a year in salary and
endorsements, according to France Football magazine, making him
the 13th best-paid soccer player in the world. The 25-year-old
Messi tops the list at 33 million euros, yet London-based
SportsPro magazine picked Neymar as the world’s most marketable
athlete in 2012.  Spurning Europe  Last month, the London-based newspaper The Sun said
 Manchester United (MANU)  of the English Premier League was the latest
top European club to make an offer for Neymar, at 38 million
pounds ($60 million). Santos denied the report, and Neymar said
it’s too early for him to follow the path of almost every
Brazilian star and transfer to a European club.  “Why didn’t you go to Europe, dude?” a friend asks the
shirtless Neymar on a beach in an ad that ran this year for
Guarana Antarctica, a soft drink made by  Cia. de Bebidas  das
Americas. It then cuts to Neymar in thick winter wear struggling
to perform his fancy footwork in a snowstorm and losing the
ball. Then back to the beach, where a grinning Neymar responds
“Not now” before boogieing with bikini-clad Brazilians.  Overexposure  Neymar’s managers point out that Europe is suffering an
economic crisis that could hurt his immediate earning prospects.
 Brazil  in contrast has overtaken  Italy  and the U.K. to become
the world’s sixth-largest economy. While growth has slowed since
2010, when gross domestic product expanded by 7.5 percent, the
economy is picking up again and analysts surveyed by the central
bank expect a 4 percent expansion next year.  “It’s a difficult economic moment in Europe,” said Alan
Adler, chief executive officer for IMX Talent, Batista’s joint
venture with New York-based IMG. “Brazil is still growing,
strongly or not.”  In Brazil, where his image pops up on billboards, subway
posters and magazine ads as well as TV, Neymar faces a different
risk: overexposure.  “Neymar today is oversold” in his homeland, Adler said in
an interview in Rio de Janeiro. “We have to wait for some
contracts to end to be able to start looking for new
partnerships, more planned partnerships that add value.”  While sponsorships were a factor, the main driver behind
his decision to stay at Santos was his contract that goes
through the World Cup, Eduardo Musa, the player’s career manager
at the club, said in a telephone interview.  Musa dismissed concerns Neymar’s brand was oversold, adding
that new endorsement contracts are always possible and the
player hasn’t received any interesting proposals.  Homegrown Hero  A strong performance as the homegrown hero in the World Cup
“has the potential to promote him to a much larger stage,” Don Garber, commissioner of Major League Soccer, the main
professional division in the U.S., said in a Sept. 6 interview
at Bloomberg’s Sports Business Summit in New York. “There’s no
reason to rush it. When he’s ready, when the market’s ready to
adopt him as one of the next world greats, he’ll make a move.”  Neymar wasn’t available to be interviewed due to game
schedules, according to an official who handles media inquiries
for him at Santos and who declined to be identified in line with
the club’s policy.  Neymar’s 143-pound (65-kilogram) frame is slight for a star
striker. That didn’t stop Araraquara, Brazil-based Lupo SA from
featuring him in underwear ads. His physique is an asset for
marketers seeking to lure young consumers with a figure they can
look up to, said Jefferson Slack, senior vice president for
global football at IMG. While Neymar recently changed his
hairstyle, young men all over Brazil still sport Mohawks
imitating his famous cut.  ‘Kids Relate’  “He’s got everything that you want: He’s a scorer, he’s
exciting, kids relate to him,” Slack, who is also a former CEO
of the Italian soccer club Inter Milan, said by telephone from
 London . “Why was Michael Jordan so marketable? Because kids
wanted to fly and Michael said he could fly, and he was not big
for a basketball player.”  Neymar also provides a runway for companies trying to reach
Brazil’s booming consumer market, said Kenneth Shropshire,
faculty director at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton
Sports Business Initiative.  “What he brings with him is not just an 18-to-35 male kind
of demographic,” Shropshire said by phone from Philadelphia.
“He brings Brazil with him; that’s where you see the value” to
multinational retailers.  Twitter Followers  Among those seeking to benefit from his golden touch is
 America Movil (AMXL)  SAB, the mobile phone operator owned by  Carlos Slim , the world’s richest man. On Sept. 13, Neymar wrote to his
more than 5 million Twitter followers, “Now I know a ton about
4G,” linking his endorsement to a website run by America
Movil’s local unit, Claro SA.  Neymar also lends his name to smaller sponsors, hawking
everything from dandruff shampoo to car batteries. In one ad, he
juggles a can of Tenys Pe foot deodorant spray through the
aisles of a supermarket with a cartoon frog.  Such deal making in Brazil may continue a while longer. A
prodigy like Neymar no longer needs to seek the fast buck in
Europe and can have a satisfying career in any market he
chooses, said Mark Pannes, CEO of the Italian club  AS Roma. (ASR)   “That decision-making process speaks to the empowerment of
athletes that hasn’t existed up until the last 10 years or so,”
Pannes said in an interview at the Sports Business Summit.
“Guys are now calling their own shots.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Boston at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  