-- EU Approves UN Climate-Talks Mandate, Sidesteps Unused Rights
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-10-25T19:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/eu-approves-un-climate-talks-mandate-sidesteps-unused-rights.html
European Union nations approved a
negotiating mandate for the next global climate summit after
sidestepping differences over post-2012 curbs on excess United
Nations emission rights.  Environment ministers from the 27-nation EU were unable to
advance on the issue of unused UN greenhouse-gas emission
rights, reiterating a March accord to seek an “ambitious level
of environmental integrity.” That vagueness enabled the
ministers to come up with a broader stance for world climate
talks scheduled for November.  The overall agreement, reached at a 12-hour meeting today
in Luxembourg, scaled back a draft proposal to make the domestic
use and trading of surplus UN emission rights “strictly
limited” after eastern EU nations led by Poland opposed any
restrictions.  “We were not able to move beyond what was agreed in
March,” Environment Minister Sophocles Aletraris of Cyprus,
which currently holds the EU’s rotating presidency, told
reporters after the meeting.  Still at stake is the future of Assigned Amount Units
equivalent to 3 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide that
European countries won’t use in the 2008-2012 Kyoto period,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. That would correspond
to 63 percent of the EU’s aggregate emissions in 2010. Together
with excess AAUs held by non-EU nations, in particular  Russia 
and Ukraine, the surplus may rise to 11.2 billion tons, a sum
that is approximately equal to Russia’s total emissions from
2008 through 2012 and that threatens to undermine any future
deal on  climate change , BNEF said.  At  UN climate talks  in Durban,  South Africa , last year, the
EU agreed to set binding caps on emissions under the second
Kyoto commitment period from 2013. Negotiators have yet to
decide how to tackle the carry-over of surplus rights at the
next global summit due to start on Nov. 26 in Doha, Qatar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Stearns at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net  