-- EU Banks Need ‘TARP-Like’ Program, Millstein and Studzinski Say
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-10-25T16:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/eu-banks-need-tarp-like-program-millstein-and-studzinski-say.html
European banks , battered by the
sovereign-debt crisis and tougher regulation, need a “TARP-
like” program to help boost market confidence and lending,  Jim Millstein  and John Studzinski said.  “Ultimately, they need a central authority providing
equity behind the banking system’s liabilities,” Millstein, the
former U.S. Treasury Department chief restructuring officer who
started the turnaround advisory firm Millstein & Co., said in a
panel discussion at Bloomberg’s  Dealmakers Summit  in  New York 
today. “The large European banks are actually more leveraged
than our banks were at the beginning of the crisis.”  TARP is the Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset Relief
Program, a $700 billion bank-bailout fund that provided capital
injections to firms including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America 
Corp. during the financial crisis. European banks are struggling
to fulfill a pledge made last year to cut more than $1.2
trillion of assets to help them weather the sovereign-debt
crisis, stoking investor concern about financial stability.  “The traditional model in  Europe  for the banking system is
bust,” said Studzinski, senior managing director and global
head of Blackstone Advisory Partners LP, citing the dependency
of companies on banks as well as the structure of large banks
and local state-owned lenders. He also called for a TARP-like
program for the region’s banks.  ‘Conceptual Error’  “You need some sort of pan-European deposit guarantee
system” to slow down the flight of capital, said billionaire
investor  Wilbur Ross , speaking at the same event. He called it a
“conceptual error” to try to impose new Basel III regulations
while simultaneously asking banks to lend more. “It’s not going
to work.”  While European leaders earlier this month committed to
their goal of establishing a euro-area bank supervisor by year-
end, every element of the bank overhaul has drawn debate back to
the fight over who should pay when a lender fails. The EU has
already scrapped plans to centralize bank deposit insurance in
the near term, instead asking each nation to set up its own
system.  European countries from  Germany  to  Spain  need to cede
sovereignty on everything from bank supervision to taxation and
there must also be a focus on  job creation  and growth to
overcome the euro crisis, Millstein and Studzinski said.  “The growth problem is real, and it could create the
political conditions where the euro does not survive, and that’s
my fear,” Millstein said.  Deficit Problem  Still, Millstein, Studzinski and Ross agreed that the U.S.,
despite having a more centralized decision-making process than
the European Union, has also failed to tackle its own deficit
problem.  The U.S. doesn’t have the credibility to suggest a solution
to Europe’s debt crisis because it needs to fix its own problems
first, said Ross. “We haven’t done such a good job of our
own.”  A 2011 deficit-reduction agreement between President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders created the so-called fiscal
cliff of $607 billion in spending cuts and tax increases set to
start in January unless Congress acts to stop it.  “The crisis now is so real, and the urgent need for action
in  Washington  is so real -- they put it off, put it off and now
they are going to have to deal with it one way or the other,”
said Millstein.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  