-- EU May Toughen Commodity Swaps Curbs in Financial Rules
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-25T14:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/eu-may-toughen-commodity-swaps-curbs-in-financial-rules.html
Commodity derivative speculators may
face tougher curbs under compromise plans to overhaul the
European Union’s financial market rules.  Governments may seek to restrict the number of commodity-
derivative contracts that traders can enter into, according to a
draft version of the rules  prepared by Cyprus , which holds the
rotating presidency of the EU. Such a requirement would go
beyond a draft law published last year by  Michel Barnier , the
EU’s financial services chief.  The position-limit rule wouldn’t apply in cases where
businesses are trying to use the derivatives to shield
themselves from losses on investments, according to the
documents. Regulators would also have some, limited power to
grant other case-by-case exemptions.  Aid organizations and some governments, including France
and  Germany , have demanded restrictions on commodity derivatives
speculation, which they blame for worldwide spikes in food
prices. The  Institute of International Finance , an association
representing global lenders, has said there is “little
convincing evidence linking financial investment with trends in
commodity prices and volatility.”  Barnier’s proposals, published last year, would have given
regulators the chance to find alternatives to position limits.  Tougher Measures  Speaking to lawmakers in the European Parliament today,
Barnier said he backed moves to toughen the planned measures for
commodity derivatives.  Barnier plans to “reinforce our system of position limits,
while maintaining the possibility for businesses to use these
markets for hedging purposes,” the commissioner said at the
parliament’s headquarters in Strasbourg,  France .  Still, the Cypriot plans, dated Oct. 22, would weaken his
proposals to boost securities-clearing competition. The draft
proposals would add conditions that must be met before an
exchange can be forced to hand over trading data to a competing
clearinghouse.  While the U.K. has strongly backed the original proposal,
which Barnier argues would cut costs for investors, Germany and
France have both warned that the plan risks fragmenting markets
and harming financial stability.  The Cypriot plans follow along the lines of a negotiating
position approved by European Parliament lawmakers last month
and scheduled to be voted on by lawmakers tomorrow.  “I’m convinced that we need to create the conditions for
healthy competition in the post-trade market,” Barnier said
today.  The step is needed “to create a real single market for
financial services and prevent an excessive concentration of
risks within monopolistic market infrastructures,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  