-- EU Parliament Opposes Mersch ECB Move in Symbolic Gender Act
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-10-25T12:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/eu-parliament-opposes-mersch-s-ecb-move-in-symbolic-gender-vote.html
The European Parliament opposed the
appointment of Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch to the European Central
Bank’s Executive Board in a symbolic protest over a lack of
female candidates for the job.  The non-binding opinion by the European Union assembly
today in Strasbourg,  France , is a political appeal to euro-area
government leaders to put forward women for top ECB posts. The
EU Parliament had no veto power over the assignment and praised
the qualifications of the 63-year-old Mersch, who is
Luxembourg’s central bank chief.  All 17 central bank governors in the euro area are men and,
within the ECB itself, few of its managers are women. Two women,
Sirkka Haemaelaeinen of  Finland  and Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell of
 Austria , previously sat on the ECB’s six-member Executive Board.
If the five men currently there serve their full terms, another
vacancy won’t emerge until June 2018, when Vice President  Vitor Constancio  of  Portugal  retires.  “We are objecting to the EU’s most powerful institution
being run by only men for the next six years,”  Sharon Bowles ,
chairwoman of the EU Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee, said three days ago after it recommended that the
full 754-seat assembly issue a negative opinion on Mersch.
Following that committee guidance, the Parliament opposed him
today by a vote of 325 to 300 with 49 abstentions.  Gender Imbalance  The ECB seat has been vacant since Jose Manuel Gonzalez- Paramo of Spain ended his eight-year term on May 31. Euro-area
finance ministers then wrangled over his replacement until July.
As Luxembourg’s representative on the ECB’s wider policy-setting
Governing Council, Mersch is the euro area’s longest serving
central bank chief and has earned a reputation as an inflation
hawk.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  and EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  have said that, while the gender imbalance calls for
action, Mersch’s appointment to the Executive Board should go
through to help the central bank tackle Europe’s three-year-old
sovereign-debt crisis. The workload of the Frankfurt-based ECB
has multiplied as it embarks on unprecedented unconventional
monetary-policy measures and takes on extra supervisory roles.  “It is urgent to fill that vacancy,” Van Rompuy told the
27-nation Parliament two days ago while also saying that EU
government leaders should “identify and propose female
candidates for vacant posts at European level, in particular in
the economic and financial sector where the under-representation
of women is blatant. We need to be active in encouraging this
process.”  EU Parliament members said  Van Rompuy ’s pledges were
insufficient.  “We want diversity,” Sylvie Goulard, a French member of
the assembly, where women account for more than a third of the
membership and over half of the staff, said after today’s vote.
“A male-only board of the ECB in 2012 is not acceptable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Luxembourg at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  