-- EU to Consider UN Carbon Permit Limits Before Climate Summit
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-25T10:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/eu-to-consider-un-carbon-permit-limits-before-climate-summit.html
European Union ministers are set to
consider today potential restrictions on excess United Nations
emissions permits after 2012 to prepare for a climate summit in
November, where envoys will strive to agree a global solution.  The bloc’s 27 nations will mull a political declaration
that as of next year the domestic use and trading of the
greenhouse-gas rights not used by developed countries in the
first phase of the UN climate-protection Kyoto Protocol should
be “strictly limited,” according to draft conclusions of the
meeting obtained by  Bloomberg News . The gathering of ministers,
who adopt conclusions by unanimity, is taking place in
Luxembourg.  At stake is the future of Assigned Amount Units equivalent
to 3 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide that European
countries won’t use in the 2008-2012 Kyoto period, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. That would correspond to 63
percent of the EU’s aggregate emissions in 2010. Together with
excess AAUs held by non-EU countries, in particular  Russia  and
Ukraine, the surplus may rise to 11.2 billion tons,
approximately equal to Russia’s total emissions from 2008
through 2012 and threatening to undermine any future deal on
 climate change , BNEF said.  At the  UN climate talks  in Durban,  South Africa , last year,
the EU agreed to adopt binding caps on emissions under the
second Kyoto commitment period from 2013. Negotiators have yet
to decide how to tackle the carry-over of surplus rights at the
next global summit due to start on Nov. 26 in Doha, Qatar.  Potential Limits  EU nations remain divided over potential limits and
agreeing a common position before Doha is a challenge, according
to an EU presidency official, who declined to be identified
citing policy. Cyprus, which holds the rotating EU presidency
until the end of this year, consulted member states before the
ministerial meeting and will endeavor to ensure an ambitious
outcome, the official said.  The surplus of AAUs, which are tradable credits allocated
to countries that adopted binding emission-reduction commitments
under Kyoto, has pitted wealthier western nations and the
European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, against poorer
former ex-communist members that have sought to retain their
rights to sell excess units in the future.  Draft Conclusions  Some European nations “can live with the current text,
subject to some adjustments” and another group of governments
wants the strict limits to apply to carry-over of AAUs,
according to a note accompanying the draft conclusions. “A
couple of” countries want to tackle the issue together with
rules on banking of UN carbon offsets generated under the Clean
Development Mechanism and the Joint Implementation program and
another group of nations wants to cancel the combined surplus of
AAUs from the first and second Kyoto periods at the end of the
second stage, the document showed.  Poland , which has led central and east European member
states in opposing restrictions on the banking of AAUs, said
today that the unused emission rights reflected deeper-than-
required greenhouse gas reductions and funds from their sales
are used for projects to cut pollution further. The government
can’t agree to any curbs on its right to sell AAUs it was given
for the 2008-2012 period, Environment Minister Marcin Korolec
told reporters in Luxembourg, adding that he was confident the
EU will today agree a “good mandate” for the summit in Doha.  “The mandate is 99 percent completed, we still need to
discuss a couple of points including Assigned Amount Units,” he
said. “The presidency is aware of what  member states  need and
what language would be acceptable for everyone.”  ‘Paper Credits’  Environmental lobbies including WWF have repeatedly called
on the EU to prohibit the carry-over of surplus UN emission
rights, which they said amounts to “hot air.”  “If these paper credits are not prohibited for use in the
next period, and then subsequently canceled, they could
significantly undermine real emissions reductions efforts,” WWF
said in a statement yesterday. “Lack of agreement inside the EU
has silenced the region in international negotiations, which
cannot continue.”  EU ministers will also underline the “urgent need” to
build on climate talks held earlier this year and to deliver on
the pledge made by negotiations in Durban to hammer out by 2015
a global legally-binding agreement that would enter into force
by 2020, according to the draft conclusions.  The bloc will reaffirm its conditional offer to increase
its emissions-reduction target to 30 percent by 2020 from the
current 20 percent if other developed nations commit themselves
to comparable efforts and “most advanced  developing countries 
contribute adequately,” the document showed.  The  agenda  of the meeting also includes information from
the commission on its proposal to curb the oversupply in the EU
carbon market by delaying auctions of some permits starting in
2013, a strategy known as backloading. While some member states
may want to take floor after the information is presented there
won’t be any full discussion or a decision on the draft measure
today, according to the EU presidency official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  