-- Ex-AT&T Employee Gets Year in Prison Over Disclosures
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-26T00:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/ex-at-t-employee-gets-year-in-prison-over-disclosures.html
Alnoor Ebrahim, a former  AT&T Inc. (T) 
employee, was sentenced to a year and a day in prison for
passing inside information about the company and suppliers
including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  to the clients
of an expert-networking firm.  Ebrahim, 58, a naturalized U.S. citizen who was born in
 Tanzania , pleaded guilty in June to a single count of conspiracy
to commit  wire fraud  and  securities fraud .  He admitted accepting more than $180,000 from Primary
Global Research LLC, an expert-networking firm, and passing
information about AT&T’s sales of the Apple iPhone and Rim’s
BlackBerry products, as well as handsets sold through AT&T’s
distribution channel.  “I’m very, very sorry for breaching their trust in me,”
said Ebrahim, who apologized to his family, friends, colleagues
and AT&T before the judge imposed his sentence.  “I take full responsibility for my actions and I will have
to live with this for the rest of my life,” he said. “I stand
before you asking for leniency and compassion.”  While Ebrahim faced a term of 18 to 24 months in prison,
U.S. District Judge Paul Oetken said today he was crediting the
defendant with agreeing to plead guilty and offering to
cooperate with the U.S. He also said that he felt a term of
imprisonment was warranted to deter others from committing
 insider trading .  Trial Witness  Ebrahim’s lawyer, Douglas Burns, told the judge that while
his client had offered to assist the government, prosecutors
eventually decided not to use him as a witness at a series of
insider-trading trials.  As a result, Burns said, Ebrahim wasn’t getting the credit
for providing “substantial assistance” to the U.S. that
cooperators typically get from the government. Prosecutors
typically file a letter with the sentencing judge asking that a
lesser term be imposed upon the defendant on the basis of the
aid they’ve given the government.  “He did come in and he did confess his involvement,”
Burns told the judge. “The government elected not to enter into
a cooperating agreement with him but it is not to take away from
Mr. Ibrahim’s own truthful candor with the U.S.”  Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps, who prosecuted the
case, told the judge that Ebrahim’s criminal conduct didn’t rise
to the level of other expert-networking consultants who had
pleaded guilty or been convicted after trial.  Prison ‘Warranted’  She also noted that Ebrahim had agreed to pass nonpublic
information about AT&T for a period of more than 2 1/2 years
while working as a consultant for Primary Global.  “I believe a term of imprisonment is warranted in this
case,” Oetken said. “Insider trading is an easy crime to
commit but a difficult one to detect.”  The judge also ordered Ebrahim to pay a fine of more than
$189,000 and directed him to surrender to a federal prison by
Jan. 8. Ebrahim declined to comment after court.  Ebrahim, who Burns said lives in Alpharetta,  Georgia ,
worked as an associate director of channel marketing for  AT&T
Mobility  in Atlanta. He left the company in January 2011, the
company said in June.  After court, Burns said that during debriefings with the
U.S., his client, who holds master’s degrees in electrical
engineering and business administration, described for the
government how fund managers could use information about
technology companies to trade on the data.  ‘Broader Context’  “Mr. Ebrahim contacted me within hours of being contacted
by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation ,” Raymond Guidice, an
Atlanta-based lawyer who is also representing Ebrahim, said
after court. “While he wasn’t a traditional cooperating
witness, he did help the government and he was able to provide a
broader context about the meaning and import of this information
in the world of hand-held devices.”  The case is U.S. v. Ebrahim, 12-cr-471, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Farr at 
 sfarr@bloomberg.net  