-- Ex-Galleon Fund Manager Cardillo Gets 3 Years Probation
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-10-26T04:30:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/ex-galleon-fund-manager-cardillo-gets-3-years-probation.html
Michael Cardillo, the ex-Galleon
Group LLC portfolio manager who was the first person to tell the
U.S. that former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Director Rajat Gupta
was a source of illegal tips for Raj Rajaratnam, was sentenced
to three years of probation.  Cardillo, who pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges in
January 2011, provided “extraordinary” help in cases against
Gupta and former Galleon trader  Zvi Goffer , Assistant U.S.
Attorney  Reed Brodsky  told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan, who imposed the sentence yesterday.  He was the first person to inform the government about how
Gupta, who was also a former director of  Procter & Gamble (PG)  Co.,
supplied inside information to Rajaratnam, the co-founder of
Galleon, Brodsky said.  “He provided us with insights within Galleon which
otherwise, we couldn’t get,” Brodsky told the judge. “It was
Mr. Cardillo who first raised Procter & Gamble and that
accelerated the government’s investigation of Mr. Gupta. His
information provided enormous corroboration from the
government’s point of view that Mr. Gupta was the one who’d
breached his duties and tipped Mr. Rajaratnam.”  Rakoff sentenced Gupta yesterday to two years in prison
after a jury convicted him in June of three counts of  securities
fraud  and one count of conspiracy.  Tipper Sentenced  Alnoor Ebrahim, a former  AT&T Inc. (T)  employee had offered to
help prosecutors investigating insider trading, was sentenced
yesterday to a year and a day in prison for passing inside
information about the company and suppliers including Apple Inc.
and Research In Motion Ltd. to the clients of an expert-
networking firm.  Ebrahim, 58, a naturalized U.S. citizen who was born in
 Tanzania , pleaded guilty in June to a single count of conspiracy
to commit  wire fraud  and securities fraud.  He admitted accepting more than $180,000 from Primary
Global Research LLC, an expert-networking firm, and passing
information about AT&T’s sales of the Apple iPhone and RIM’s
BlackBerry products, as well as handsets sold through AT&T’s
distribution channel.  “I’m very, very sorry for breaching their trust in me,”
said Ebrahim, who apologized to his family, friends, colleagues
and AT&T before the judge imposed his sentence.  “I take full responsibility for my actions and I will have
to live with this for the rest of my life,” he said. “I stand
before you asking for leniency and compassion.”  Deterring Others  While Ebrahim faced a term of 18 to 24 months in prison,
U.S. District Judge Paul Oetken said he was crediting the
defendant with agreeing to plead guilty and offering to
cooperate with the U.S. He also said that he felt a term of
imprisonment was warranted to deter others from committing
 insider trading .  Cardillo testified at Gupta’s trial and at another trial
against Goffer, his brother, Emanuel Goffer, and trader Michael Kimelman. The Goffers and Kimelman were convicted after trial
last year and have all been sentenced to prison.  Cardillo’s lawyer, Marjorie Peerce, told the judge
yesterday that her client agreed to cooperate with the U.S.
within hours of being approached by agents with the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation . Five days later, he told prosecutors
what he knew about Galleon trading activities, she said.  “I am truly sorry for the conduct I committed, your
honor,” Cardillo said before the sentence was imposed. “I’m
looking forward to moving forward as a law-abiding and good
member of society.”  ‘Decent Person’  Rakoff said he would credit Cardillo’s assistance to the
government in the Gupta case.  “Mr. Cardillo is essentially a decent person,” the judge
said.  “When you address the truly extraordinary cooperation that
the government has detailed, it’s hard to imagine a situation
where he would not be entitled to no jail time,” Rakoff said.  Rakoff ordered Cardillo to forfeit $66,700 and said he
wouldn’t impose any fine or restitution.  Cardillo declined to comment after court.  “Mr. Cardillo looks forward to living out the rest of his
life as a law-abiding and productive member of society,” Peerce
said.  The case is U.S. v. Cardillo, 11-cr-907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). Ebrahim’s case
is U.S. v. Ebrahim, 12-cr-471, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  