-- Fed Signals Jobless Rate Drop Won’t Deter Bond Purchases
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-10-25T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/fed-signals-jobless-rate-drop-won-t-deter-bond-purchases.html
New homes are being built at the
fastest pace since 2008, stocks are up 12 percent this year and
the U.S.  jobless rate  is the lowest since January 2009.  None of that is enough to satisfy Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke .  The  Federal Open Market Committee  barely changed its view
of the economy yesterday as it stuck to a plan to buy $40
billion of mortgage debt each month to spur growth.  Consumer
spending  has risen “a bit more quickly,” the FOMC said in a
statement after its two-day meeting in  Washington , while the
jobless rate “remains elevated.”  “That underscores how committed this committee is to
seeing the unemployment rate get somewhere closer back to
normal,” said Ellen Zentner, senior U.S. economist at Nomura
Securities International Inc. in  New York . “Some tick down in
the unemployment rate is not good enough.”  Zentner is among economists who predict the Fed in December
will expand its quantitative easing program as it seeks to bring
the jobless rate closer to its long-term goal of 5.2 percent to
6 percent and protect the three-year expansion from risks that
include fiscal tightening at home and slowing global growth.  Benchmark 10-year Treasury notes and U.S. stocks fell after
the statement. The central bank also repeated that a highly
accommodative monetary policy will be appropriate “for a
considerable time after the economic recovery strengthens” and
 interest rates  are likely to stay near zero “at least through
mid-2015.”  December Decision  The FOMC will need to decide by the end of December whether
to continue with Treasury purchases after the expiration that
month of so-called Operation Twist. Under that program, the
central bank swaps about $45 billion each month of short-term
debt and buys the same amount of longer-term Treasuries. The Fed
by the end of December will have largely exhausted its supply of
short-term debt.  Seventy-two percent of 60 economists in an Oct. 18-19
Bloomberg survey said the Fed in January will make up for the
end of Operation Twist with monthly purchases of as much as $45
billion in  Treasury securities  in addition to the mortgage-bond
buying announced last month.  Policy makers are next scheduled to meet Dec. 11-12, after
the Nov. 6 presidential election that may help decide the course
of negotiations over the more than $607 billion in tax increases
and spending cuts that are set to take effect early next year
unless Congress acts.  Gas Pedal  “If they decided to drop Operation Twist and not purchase
those additional amounts of securities, the market would view
that as the Fed taking its foot off the gas pedal, which is not
a signal the Fed wants to send just yet,” said John Canally, an
economist and investment strategist at LPL Financial Corp. in
 Boston , which oversees about $350 billion in investments.  The  unemployment rate  dropped to 7.8 percent in September
from 8.1 percent in August and 8.3 percent in July. A Labor
Department report on Nov. 2 is forecast to show that
unemployment rose to 7.9 percent in October and employers added
118,000 workers to payrolls, scant improvement from the prior
month’s 114,000 pace that was the slowest in three months.  Progress in the labor market may help determine the size of
Treasury purchases that the Fed undertakes once Operation Twist
ends, said Nathan Sheets, global head of international economics
at Citigroup Inc. and former head of international finance for
the Fed.  The Fed may announce monthly purchases ranging from $25
billion to $45 billion, and “the size is likely to be in the
upper part of that range if unemployment backs up to 8 percent
over the next two months,” Sheets said. If unemployment
declines, the central bank will buy securities toward the lower
part of the range, he said.  Growth Outlook  Economists also say economic growth will improve to 1.9
percent in the third quarter, up from 1.3 percent in the second
quarter. The Commerce Department will make its first estimate of
third-quarter gross domestic product tomorrow.  “The Fed’s made it pretty clear that they want to see
really substantial improvement in the labor market, not just one
or two strong months of better payroll data,” said  Scott Brown ,
chief economist at Raymond James Financial Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida . “You’d need to see 250,000 jobs a month,
month after month.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent yesterday
to 1,408.75, while the yield on the 10-year Treasury rose 0.03
percentage point to 1.79 percent.  Concern about the outlook for company earnings has pushed
down the S&P 500 3.9 percent from this year’s high on Sept. 14.
The benchmark index has risen for the year on speculation
central bankers will keep economies expanding.  Bright Spot  Housing has been a bright spot as  mortgage rates  driven to
record lows by the Fed’s asset buying spur demand. Purchases of
new homes rose in September to the highest level in more than
two years, figures from the Commerce Department showed
yesterday.  Sales climbed 5.7 percent to a 389,000 annual pace, the
most since April 2010, following a revised 368,000 rate in
August. The median estimate of 75 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for sales to rise to 385,000.  Horsham, Pennsylvania-based Toll Brothers, the largest U.S
luxury-home builder, reported a 57 percent increase in orders
for the quarter ending in July over the previous year. The S&P
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index tracking 11 homebuilders has
increased 87 percent this year.  Even as housing has improved, a worsened outlook for global
economic growth has weighed on U.S. companies like Microsoft
Corp. and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  The companies reported
quarterly results last week that fell short of analysts’
predictions, as competition from tablets and weak international
demand squeezed sales.  -- With assistance from  Steve Matthews  in Atlanta and Aki Ito in
 San Francisco . Editors: James L Tyson, Chris Wellisz  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  