-- Finland Battered by Real Job Cuts as Crisis Ages: Nordic Credit
-- B y   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-10-25T10:54:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/finland-battered-by-real-job-cuts-as-crisis-ages-nordic-credit.html
Finnish companies are wielding their
job axes as the northernmost euro country braces for a new era
of sluggish growth with  Europe ’s debt crisis entering its fourth
year.  As companies such as former mobile-phone bellwether  Nokia
Oyj (NOK1V)  succumb to waning demand and competition, outright firings
are running neck-and-neck with the more traditional Finnish
method of temporary layoffs. Back in 2009, when the current
crisis erupted, temporary measures outnumbered dismissals by
about six to one, according to data from central labor market
organization SAK.  “There’s a clear change in the behavior of companies,”
Hannu Kaseva, an economist at Helsinki-based ETLA research
institute said by phone. “They estimate that it’s not temporary
anymore and we’re facing a more permanent period of weakening.”  Finland is reeling as Nokia, once Europe’s most-valuable
company, in June announced 10,000 job cuts and as other
industries, such as its papermakers, also reduce jobs to cope
with stalling exports. The government is raising taxes and
cutting spending to trim deficits in one of the four remaining
AAA rated nations in the 17-nation euro bloc.  Unemployment will rise to 8.1 percent next year, the Labor
Ministry said on Oct. 23. A total of 12,509 jobs have been cut
this year, compared with 19,658 in 2009, when the economy shrank
8.5 percent, SAK data shows, based on publicly available
information. The $245 billion economy will expand 1 percent both
this year and next, the government estimated on Sept. 17.  ‘Trigger Happy’  According to Labor Minister Lauri Ihalainen, job losses are
piling up as companies are more “trigger happy” and because
the “exporting cornerstones” are in the midst of structural
changes. The government’s goal of pushing the jobless rate down
to 5 percent by 2015 is at risk.  “It’s a tough goal and with these growth figures we won’t
get to it,” Ihalainen said in an Oct. 23 interview. “We’re
living with years of slower-than-usual growth.”  Gross domestic product shrank 1.1 percent in the second
quarter from the three months through March, the worst slump in
since 2009. Exports sank 2.3 percent and household spending slid
2.2 percent, the statistics office said on Sept. 5.  Between 1984 and 1990, Finnish unemployment had averaged 5
percent, compared with 12.3 percent in the decade that followed,
peaking close to 20 percent in 1994. Since joining the euro,
joblessness has averaged 8.3 percent, according to calculations
based on Statistics  Finland  data.  Buffers Consumed  “The previous recession was preceded by a relatively long
period of profitability,” Simo Pinomaa, an economist at the
Confederation of Finnish industries said by phone. “There’s a
danger that when buffers have been consumed, companies are
forced to act.”  Standard & Poor’s last month said that Finland’s top rating
may be under pressure as the country also has to cope with
Europe’s fastest-aging population. The rating company, which has
placed Finland on negative outlook, said that “vulnerability to
external factors” and weak domestic demand are “complicated by
longer-term structural issues.”  The pain of Finnish workers may also endanger the country’s
status as a safe harbor from euro region’s crisis.  The yield on Finland’s benchmark 10-year note rose three
basis points to 1.83 percent as of 1:52 p.m. in Helsinki. The
difference in yield between Finland’s 2022 bond and similar-
maturity German bunds was at 22 basis points, widening from as
low as nine basis points at the start of last month.  The Cuts  The European Central Bank and the International Monetary
Fund have both cut forecasts for the euro-area economy over the
past 1 1/2 months as governments lower spending to plug budget
gaps, eroding consumer and export demand. Business confidence in
 Germany , Europe’s biggest economy, unexpectedly fell to a 2 1/2-
year low this month, a report yesterday showed.  Finnish companies that recently started cutting jobs
include stainless steelmaker Rautaruukki Oyj, which said on
Sept. 27 it will terminate 250 positions.  Stora Enso Oyj (STEAV) ,
Europe’s biggest papermaker, announced 520 cuts on Oct. 23 at
mills in Finland, Sweden and  Poland , while metal component maker
 Componenta Oyj (CTH1V)  announced plans to cut 550 jobs on Oct. 18, of
which about 20 percent will be in Finland.  Metso Oyj (MEO1V) , a
machinery supplier for mining and paper industries, has said it
will eliminate as many as 630 jobs in its paper unit.  Banks are also feeling the pinch with OP-Pohjola Group
cutting as many as 700 jobs in Finland, it said on Sept. 19.  Dismissals have become more commonplace even as the
government agreed a year ago to pay part of the costs during a
temporary layoff.  “This was our message that the economic burden for
companies is lighter now than before, we’re trying to encourage
temporary measures,” Ihalainen said. “I wish to be optimistic
about Finland; the forest industry has many new interesting
possibilities, the technology industry as well. Our exports
don’t end here, there’s just a major transformation going on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  