-- Fisherman Builds DeLorean-Style Hovercraft, Aims for Google Job
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-10-25T21:50:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/fisherman-builds-delorean-style-hovercraft-aims-for-google-job.html
Matt Riese is looking for a job at a
technology company. His resume includes crab fisherman and maker
of a hovercraft that looks like the car from the movie “Back to
the Future.”  His aquatic vehicle, designed to look like a DeLorean with
its iconic silver body and gull-wing doors, is nearly finished,
Bloomberg.com reported on its  Tech Blog . Riese, 29, is making
some last-minute adjustments to the craft’s mechanism, which
pushes down air to keep the contraption floating above water.  The San Francisco resident wants to take it out tonight
during the second game of the World Series between the San
Francisco Giants and the Detroit Tigers, but he’s not sure it
will be ready.  Giants fans may recognize the vehicle from appearances on
television earlier this year when Riese took it for a spin in
McCovey Cove, the area behind AT&T Park where people in kayaks
try to catch home-run balls. Cameras had caught Riese and his
hovercraft, made out of Styrofoam and fiberglass, stalling and
taking on water. Making something that withstands saltwater has
proven to be difficult, but he wants to be out there to support
his favorite team.  One of Riese’s motivations for building the hovercraft was
to get his friends on the stadium’s Jumbotron, but by the time
he finished, they were “busy having kids and getting married
and stuff,” he said in an interview. While studying political
science for a master’s degree at San Francisco State University,
Riese began the project as part of a film he planned to shoot.  Something Big  “I just wanted to do something big, something that would
be kind of unbelievable,” Riese said. “It was just going to be
a prop in this movie I wanted to make. It was like a
surrealistic version of the end of my college career.”  In June 2010, he posted his plan for a hovercraft, along
with a video of the prototype, on the crowd-funding website
Kickstarter Inc., where people solicit funding for their
projects. He  raised  $5,644. For Riese, the project wasn’t
completely radical, considering his dad used to build cars from
scratch. But not all of his friends and family could understand
Riese’s ambitions.  “A lot of people don’t know what a hovercraft is,” he
said. “My sister thought I was trying to build a spaceship.”  Crab fishing pays well, as he learned a year ago, but it’s
not a pleasant life, Riese said.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  would be a nice
place to work, he said. The company is developing self-driving
cars, but Riese said he’s not particularly interested in
building another vehicle. He expected the hovercraft project to
take three months. Instead, it took two years.  “It’s really stressful making stuff like this because you
never know if it’s going to work, or when it’s going to work,”
he said. “Now, I’m looking for a real job.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in San Francisco at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  