-- France Telecom Cuts Dividend Projection as Earnings Drop
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-10-25T12:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/france-telecom-cuts-dividend-projection-as-earnings-drop.html
France Telecom SA (FTE) , the former French
monopoly still paying one of the  highest dividends  among
European phone companies, will reduce its payout so it can
control debt as cheaper competitors hurt sales and profit.  The owner of the Orange brand, saying it’s coping with a
more difficult environment than expected, will pay a dividend of
at least 80 cents ($1.04) each for 2012 and 2013, as much as 41
percent lower than last year. The cut is the second this year
and marks a drop from a 2011  dividend  of 1.40 euros.  France Telecom, trying to avoid credit-rating cuts, follows
rivals including  Telefonica SA (TEF)  in cutting payouts as competition
and  Europe ’s debt crisis crimp sales and  margins . In France,
which accounts for about half of France Telecom’s sales, smaller
carriers, led by  Iliad SA (ILD) , have fought it with discounts.  “Our priority is to keep our debt under control, it’s
important for us to keep our credit rating,” Chief Financial
Officer Gervais Pellissier said on a conference call. “Our
acquisition policy will be selective, and in France we’re
shifting from cost-control to looking to reduce costs.”  Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard refocused on
preserving cash eight months ago, when the company cut its
dividend forecast for the first time and abandoned a promise to
buy back shares. Still, the Paris-based company faces the threat
of having its  credit rating  cut for the first time since 2002 by
Moody’s Investors Service, which said in August that the company
may have trouble sustaining its debt ratios.  Debt Ratio  France  Telecom shares  fell  2.9 percent to 9.05 euros at
2:32 p.m. in Paris. The stock lost 23 percent this year through
yesterday, while Iliad gained 24 percent.  While the dividend cut should help support credit ratings,
France Telecom will have a tough time achieving its targeted
debt level because of competition in France, said Sam Morton, a
strategist at Mizuho Financial Group Inc.  The phone company forecast it will reduce net debt to a
ratio close to twice earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization by the end of 2014, compared with
2.2 times at the end of this year. Third-quarter Ebitda declined
to 3.65 billion euros, while sales fell 3.5 percent to 10.8
billion euros, in line with analyst  estimates .  Iliad Growth  At home, France Telecom competes against Vivendi SA,
Bouygues SA and Iliad. The latter, founded by Xavier Niel,
scooped up 5.4 percent of the French market in its first six
months by selling cheap packages starting at 2 euros a month.  France Telecom said its operating cash flow would only grow
again in 2014, once pricing pressure stabilizes in France.
Meanwhile, operating cash flow will be more than 7 billion euros
next year, from a target of close to 8 billion euros in 2012.  The dividend cut is set to bring France Telecom’s yield
nearer to its peers. An unchanged dividend at yesterday’s
closing price would have meant a yield of about 15 percent,
double the  industry average .  Competitors in the telecommunications business, an industry
which has paid generous dividends historically, have also curbed
payouts. Spain’s Telefonica suspended its dividend in July, and
Dutch carrier Royal KPN NV cut its payout forecast the same
month. Telekom Austria AG last month reduced its dividend
projection for the second time in less than 10 months, citing
increased competition.  Maroc Telecom  France Telecom, which has also shied away from acquisitions
this year to hoard cash, will not be blind to opportunities at
the right price, CEO Richard said during a conference with
financial analysts.  The company’s policy for acquisitions involves
consolidating its existing positions or gaining market share in
high-growth countries, CFO Pellissier said.  France Telecom will “most probably” make an indicative
offer for  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ’s Spanish unit Yoigo and would look at
Vivendi’s Moroccan phone business Maroc Telecom SA if it were
for sale, Richard said. He described any plans around Maroc
Telecom as “complicated,” given France Telecom’s stake in
Meditel,  Morocco ’s second-largest operator.  “We thought cutting the dividend was a necessity to manage
our debt situation, not for the M&A agenda,” Richard said.
“Still, we should have the discipline to seize opportunities
within the financial frame we have defined on debt and
dividend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  