-- French Maker of Barracuda Submarines Eyes Tidal Power Takeover
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-10-25T10:33:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/french-maker-of-barracuda-submarines-eyes-tidal-power-takeover.html
DCNS SA, the French maker of
Barracuda submarines part owned by Thales SA, is considering the
takeover of a tidal-power business as it looks to diversify into
more resilient consumer-orientated markets, according to Chief
Executive Officer Patrick Boissier.  DCNS this year boosted its stake in OpenHydro Group Ltd. to
11 percent after an initial investment in 2011. The Dublin-based
company has partnered with  Electricite de France SA  to roll out
its turbine technology driven by tidal flows.  “We are considering increasing our share and taking
control of the company,” Boissier said in an interview
yesterday.  Declines in European defense spending are creating pressure
on military suppliers in  France  and neighboring countries to
adapt their business. Companies are trying to stem declines
through exports of military equipment into  Asia  and the  Middle
East  and by diversifying into more resilient civil markets.  The main question for DCNS is when the energy market will
start generating significant sales, Boissier said.  “I am sure that at the 2020 horizon, the market will
mature,” he said. “I am totally unable to tell you whether
that market will materialize in two years or four years or five
years.”  Energy activities accounted for 100 million euros ($130
million) out of last year’s 2.6 billion euros in sales, though
they should reach more than 1 billion euros by 2020, Boissier
said.  The company, in which Thales holds 35 percent, in 2009
announced plans to double sales and Boissier said progress
remains “on track.” While most of the growth will come from
DCNS’s existing businesses, its energy unit will look for
opportunities to take over some small companies to access
technologies and markets, Boissier said.  European Slowdown  Boissier said the company has “strong” prospects overseas
amid the current slowdown in European defense spending,  It has
already booked sales of its Scorpene attack submarines to  Chile ,
 Malaysia ,  Brazil  and  India  and of the BPC command ships to
 Russia .  “Even if the European market is decreasing, we are in a
growing market,” he said during the Euronaval warship symposium
in Le Bourget outside Paris.  In France, the defense ministry said this month it would
slow spending on Barracuda submarines that can launch the
country’s nuclear ballistic missiles. The French government has
ordered three of the submarines, with plans for a fleet of six.  Boissier said that schedule adjustments for the follow-on
orders are possible. The main issue is to assure there are no
funding gaps that could risk a loss of industrial design and
construction capabilities, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  