-- FSB to Make Proposals for Too-Big-To-Fail Banks, Insurers
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-10-25T11:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/fsb-set-to-make-proposals-on-too-big-to-fail-banks-insurers.html
Global regulators will unveil
proposals “in the next few weeks” for handling the failure of
large international  banks , while also extending too-big-to-fail
measures to insurers and clearinghouses, said Bank of England
Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker .  The guidance, prepared by the Financial Stability Board,
will help regulators identify which parts of a bank must be kept
operational in a crisis and decide when to take emergency
measures, Tucker, who chairs an FSB working group on bank
failure, said in a speech in  London  today.  Regulators need broad powers to impose losses on
bondholders at crisis-hit lenders, Tucker said in prepared
remarks. “It’s about giving the authorities the tools, the
powers, to effect a restructuring of the capital and the
liabilities of a bank that isn’t toxic all the way through,” he
said. It “isn’t about identifying a special type of bond that
can be written down or converted” into ordinary shares.  The FSB’s initiative adds impetus to global efforts to
protect the financial system from a repeat of the turmoil that
followed the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The
European Union is grappling with how far its nations should join
forces to stabilize lenders on the brink of insolvency.  Member states are split over proposals made earlier this
year by  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief,
asking governments to have standing funds to recapitalize banks,
and that these funds should lend to ones in other EU countries
as a last resort.  FSB Guidance  Barnier’s draft law, presented in June, is in line with
guidance adopted by the FSB, Tucker said.  Still, Tucker’s comments on bailing in bondholders run
counter to recommendations made by an EU-mandated working group
led by  Erkki Liikanen , a member of the  European Central Bank 
governing council.  In a report published this month, the so-called Liikanen
group called for lenders to issue a specific type of debt that
could be targeted for writedowns.  The upcoming FSB paper on bank crises was drafted by a
group of regulators led by Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
First Vice President Christine Cumming, Tucker said.  The FSB is also preparing proposals on regulating
clearinghouses and insurers that are too big to fail, he said.  Today’s speech is Tucker’s third since applications for the
job of Bank of England Governor closed last month. He remains
the favorite to replace  Mervyn King  when he steps down in June,
with the Treasury expected to make an announcement by the end of
the year.  Potential Rivals  Tucker’s potential rivals for the position include
Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  and  John Vickers , who leads the Independent Commission on Banking.  Tucker said that he expects pressure to grow for nations to
put in place pre-financed funds that would compensate
government-insured depositors at failed banks.  Banks would pay “risk-based levies” into these funds,
Tucker said.  “That avoids defaulting banks getting off scot-free, and
has banks contributing to the deposit insurance system when
times are good rather than only when under pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  