-- Gardner Denver Weighs Sale After Shares Soar on Report
-- B y   E d   D u f n e r
-- 2012-10-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/gardner-denver-weighs-sale-after-shares-soar-on-report.html
Gardner Denver Inc. (GDI)  said it’s
studying options including a sale or a merger, following the
stock’s biggest one-day gain since 1994 after a report that the
evaluation was under way.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is acting as adviser for the
review, Gardner Denver said yesterday in a statement. No
decision has been made, and it’s possible no transaction will
occur, according to the company, which is based in Wayne,
 Pennsylvania .  TPG Capital,  Onex Corp. (OCX) , KKR & Co.,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and
Bain Capital LLC are among the private-equity firms considering
offers, Reuters reported earlier yesterday, citing people
familiar with the matter whom it didn’t identify. TPG and Onex
may bid together on a sale that may exceed $3 billion, the news
service said.  Gardner Denver jumped 21 percent to $66 at the close in New
York. That advance was the most since its  spinoff  from  Cooper
Industries Plc (CBE)  in 1994 and gave the company a market value of
$3.23 billion, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Trading was halted by a so-called circuit breaker to damp
volatility at about 3:11 p.m. New York time and resumed six
minutes later.  Shareholder ValueAct Holdings LP said in July that a
takeover would help Gardner Denver reap the most value for
investors after CEO Barry Pennypacker’s surprise resignation.
Pennypacker’s exit sent the shares tumbling 8.6 percent,
extending a slide since the stock’s $91.50 record close in July
2011.  “Gardner Denver does not intend to discuss or disclose
developments with respect to this process until the board has
approved a definitive course of action,” the company said in
the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ed Dufner in Dallas at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  