-- Gasoline Decline Blunting Romney Weapon: Energy Markets
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J   P o w e l l
-- 2012-10-25T17:29:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/gasoline-decline-blunting-romney-weapon-energy-markets.html
The longest losing streak for
gasoline futures since trading began on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  in 1986 means that prices at the pump will continue
dropping through the Nov. 6 presidential election, AAA says.  The 21 percent decline this month on the Nymex has
translated into 14 straight days of declines for regular
gasoline, according to AAA, the national largest motoring
organization. For consumers, prices dropped 5.7 percent since
Oct. 7 to an average  $3.599 a gallon  yesterday. They may fall to
between $3.40 and $3.50 by Election Day,  Michael Green , a
Washington-based spokesman for AAA, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Prices fell as refineries returned from maintenance and
demand slipped, boosting inventories to a seven-week high,
according to the U.S. Energy Department. The decline blunts one
weapon of Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who has
blamed the Obama administration for almost doubling fuel prices
since 2009.  “Refinery problems have ended, crude is down
dramatically,”  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price
Futures Group in  Chicago , said yesterday by phone. “If you’re
voting your wallet, the break in gasoline prices may reduce
anger at the incumbent.”  Futures slid for a 10th consecutive session on the Nymex
yesterday and were 3.9 cents higher today at $2.642 a gallon as
of 1:08 p.m.  New York  time. The futures price has tumbled 11
percent since Oct. 10, when the record slump began. Gasoline,
which gained the most of any of the 24 commodities in Standard &
Poor’s GSCI index during the first quarter, is the second-worst
performer since then after cotton.  Oil Production  Gasoline is sinking as domestic oil production rose to a
17-year high and helped push crude oil costs down to a three-
month low. Crude futures dropped 94 cents to $85.73 yesterday,
down 22 percent from the 2012 high of $109.77 in February.  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets, or wagers prices would rise,
on gasoline for a second week in the seven days ended Oct. 16,
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said in its Commitments
of Traders report on Oct. 19. Net-long positions fell to 83,923
contracts from the highest level since April.  Romney, the former governor of  Massachusetts , has been
using gasoline as a campaign issue as the price climbed toward
$4 a gallon.  His energy plan calls for states to oversee the development
and production of energy on federal lands. In the second
presidential debate on Oct. 16, Romney said he will make North
America energy independent by “more drilling, more permits and
licenses.”  Higher Mileage  During the debate in Hempstead, New York, Obama said he
plans to bring down gasoline prices through greater efficiency.
The administration has doubled the mandate for car mileage to an
average of 54.5 miles per gallon for the 2025 model year.  Romney, who was ahead of Obama 47.8 percent to 47.2 percent
yesterday in the aggregate of national polls compiled by
RealClearPolitics.com, said that if Obama’s plan were working,
prices would be lower.  The price of gasoline in Nassau County, New York, was $1.86
a gallon when Obama became president and is $4 now, Romney said.
Obama said the price was lower in 2009 because “the economy was
on the verge of collapse.” The average price in Nassau County
was $3.921 yesterday compared with a record of $4.346 on July 8,
2008, when  George W. Bush  was president.  Even with a drop to $3.40 a gallon, “the national average
price of gas will be the highest on record for a U.S.
presidential election day,” said Green of AAA.  California Push  The national average cost of gasoline was pushed higher by
the 12 percent increase in  California , to an all-time high of
$4.671 on Oct. 9. Prices there had jumped 50.3 cents the prior
week as refineries reduced output and Chevron Corp. halted a
crude oil pipeline because of contamination.  California prices averaged $4.312 a gallon yesterday, or
35.9 cents below the record, and may fall further, bringing the
national average down, Fred Rozell, retail pricing director at
the Oil Price Information Service in Wall,  New Jersey , said
yesterday.  “What’s exaggerating the fall is the strong run-up in
prices we saw,”  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group
Inc., an energy advisory company in Villanova,  Pennsylvania ,
said by phone yesterday.  Retail prices may drop as low as $3.25 a gallon by
Thanksgiving on Nov. 22 and to a 2012 low of $3.10 by the end of
the year, Green said.  Winter Fuel  Fuel production  may rise as retail outlets switch to
winter-grade fuel, which doesn’t have to meet as stringent
emissions specifications and can be made from a wider variety of
blendstocks, such as butane. U.S. gasoline  output  has risen an
average of 3.6 percent in the fourth quarter during the past
five years.  With the seasonal shift to winter-grade gasoline, “you
will see prices continue to fall and bottom out around
Thanksgiving,” Schork said.  U.S.  gasoline stockpiles  rose 1.44 million barrels last
week to the highest since Aug. 31, according to Energy
Department data. Refinery rates, down to 84.7 percent in the
week ended Sept. 7, were 87.2 percent last week, according to
department data. Demand for the motor fuel sank 2.7 percent last
week to the lowest level since March.  “Prices are not going to be a negative for the
president,” said  Andrew Lebow , a senior vice president at
Jefferies Bache LLC in New York, who expects prices to drop 10
to 15 cents more by the election. “You won’t be talking about
why pump prices are going to $5. If they were high, that would
be problematic for Obama.”  Energy Independence  U.S. crude  output  rose 4,000 barrels a day to 6.61 million
barrels a day in the week ended Oct. 19, the most since May
1995, an Energy Department report showed yesterday. Production
last week was 12 percent higher than during the same period a
year earlier. Output climbed in the previous three years after
declining for 11 of the previous 12, based on weekly data.  A combination of horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, has unlocked supplies trapped in shale
formations in states including  North Dakota ,  Texas  and  Oklahoma .
North Dakota’s output rose 26 percent this year through July,
according to the department.  The U.S. met 83 percent of its energy needs in the first
six months of 2012 and is on track for highest level of self -
sufficiency since 1991.  As Obama and Romney each try to convince voters that they
can best manage the economy, the drop in fuel costs coincides
with some indications that the economic recovery is gaining
momentum.  Consumer Confidence  Retail sales in September and August had the best back-to-
back showing since late 2010. Cars and light trucks sold at a
 14.9 million  annual pace in September, the most since March
2008, according to Ward’s Automotive Group.  U.S.  consumer confidence  jumped in October to the highest
since before the recession began five years ago, according to
the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary October
consumer  sentiment  index.  Dropping gasoline prices may boost retail sales going into
the holiday season, Patrick DeHaan, a Chicago-based senior
petroleum analyst for GasBuddy.com, said in a phone interview.  “There’s a powerful psychological tool in gas prices,” he
said. “When people are able to feel good about what they’re
paying at the pump, they feel better about the economy and
better about their lives. Low gas prices are like a high-powered
anti-depressant, it really gets people happy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  