-- Gazprom Neft’s NIS to Expand Exploration in Southeastern Europe
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 2012-10-25T09:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/gazprom-neft-s-nis-to-expand-exploration-in-southeastern-europe.html
Naftna Industrija Srbije AD (NIIS) , the
Serbian oil and gas company controlled by  OAO Gazprom Neft (GAZP) ,
plans to expand exploration to 10 southeast-European countries
to meet a 2020 production target.  The vertically-integrated company, whose main oil and gas
production is in  Serbia  and runs exploration ventures in
Romania, Hungary and Bosnia-Herzegovina, may add sites in
Montenegro, Albania, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Croatia and Greece in
its search for hydrocarbons, according to a presentation
released in Belgrade.  “NIS plans to use two development options: buying stakes
in projects and smaller companies, and creating joint companies
with big players in the region,” the Novi Sad-based company
said, adding it plans to triple output to 5 million tons of oil
equivalent by 2020.  In Greece, NIS plans to take part in a tender for on- and
off-shore sites in partnership with Energean Oil & Gas SA, while
in Slovenia it said it’s nearing an agreement for a concession
with London-based  Ascent Resources Plc. (AST)  It will also bid in a
Croatian exploration tender.  In Montenegro, it plans to “take part in a tender for off-
shore blocks in partnership with interested companies,” while
in Albania and Bulgaria it may “participate in projects,” the
company said without providing details.  NIS said expects to wrap up talks soon with a  unit  of
 Falcon Oil & Gas Ltd (FO) , a Denver, Colorado-based company, on joint
work on two exploration sites in Hungary, in addition to the
contract it has with Rohoel Aufsuchungs AG for exploration and
production near Kiskunhalas in the south of that country.  Shale Oil  Partnerships in Romania with Canada’s  East West Petroleum
Corp. (EW) ,  Moesia Oil & Gas  and  Zeta Petroleum Plc (ZTA)  give NIS access
to six concessions there, while in Bosnia-Herzegovina a venture
with Neftegazinkor, a subsidiary of Russia’s  Zarubezhneft (ZRNFT) , is to
start test drills next year following seismic surveys, NIS said.  The company also eyes some 2 billion tons of oil shale
reserves near Aleksinac in southeastern Serbia for which it will
bid in a future tender, possibly with units of  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , or EESTI Energia AS that can provide
“adequate equipment” for tapping the unused source.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  