-- Giants Top Tigers in Baseball World Series on Sandoval Home Runs
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-25T05:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/giants-top-tigers-8-3-in-opening-game-of-baseball-s-world-series.html
Pablo Sandoval, known as “Kung Fu
Panda” because of his girth, became the fourth player in Major
League Baseball history to hit three home runs in a World Series
game as the host San Francisco Giants won the opener 8-3 against
the Detroit Tigers.  Game 2 of the best-of-seven series is set for tonight at
AT&T Park in San Francisco. The Giants are seeking their second
title in three years, having won in 2010.  Sandoval, 26, joined Babe Ruth and Reggie Jackson of the
 New York  Yankees and Albert Pujols of the St. Louis Cardinals as
the only players to pull off the three-homer feat in baseball’s
championship round.  “He hit one down, he hit a couple up, he just had one of
those nights where anything we threw, he hit,” Tigers manager
Jim Leyland said in a news conference. “The guy had one of
those unbelievable World Series nights that they’ll be talking
about for years.”  The odds of Las Vegas bookmakers before last night’s game
suggested a 62 percent chance that Detroit will win the World
Series. Detroit was listed as the -170 money line favorite,
meaning a bettor would have to wager $170 to win $100, while the
Giants were +150.  The Tigers ranked fifth among the 30 MLB clubs with a
season-opening payroll of $132 million, while the Giants were
eighth at $118 million, according to USA Today’s annual survey.
The team with the higher payroll has won the past six World
Series titles.  Sandoval, who had a single in his fourth plate appearance,
hit his three home runs an estimated total of 1,193 feet (364
meters). The first two homers came off Justin Verlander, who had
allowed only two runs overall in winning three playoff games en
route to the World Series.  Babe Ruth  Ruth hit three homers in a World Series game twice -- in
1926 and 1928 -- and Jackson did it in 1977. Pujols, who now
plays for the Los Angeles Angels, did it last year.  “We’re having fun right now,” Sandoval said in a news
conference. “I’m enjoying this World Series, I’m enjoying all
my moments. You never know when it’s going to happen again.”  The Giants, last in the majors this season with 103 home
runs, opened the scoring when Sandoval hit a solo homer an
estimated 411 feet to right-center field in the first inning off
Verlander.  San Francisco added three runs off Verlander in the third.
With two outs, Angel Pagan’s grounder caromed off the third-base
bag for a double and he scored on a single by Marco Scutaro.
Sandoval followed with a two-run homer just over the left-field
wall estimated at 360 feet.  Barry Zito, who got the win for the Giants by allowing one
run in 5 2/3 innings, drove in the fifth run with a single in
the fourth inning. Sandoval then hit his third home run, a shot
estimated at 422 feet to center field, in the fifth inning.  Panda Nickname  Zito was the one who gave Sandoval his nickname, saying his
5-foot-11, 240-pound teammate reminded him of the title
character in the 2008 animated movie starring Jack Black.  “When he hit his third, man, we were just going nuts in
there,” Zito said in a news conference. “We didn’t know at
that point if it had ever been done.”  Scutaro and Buster Posey added run-scoring singles as the
Giants scored two more runs in the seventh inning.  Detroit  scored in the sixth inning on a run-scoring single
by Miguel Cabrera and Jhonny Peralta added a two-run homer in
the ninth inning.  Verlander, 29, who won the Cy Young Award as the American
League’s best pitcher last year and won all three of his starts
as the Tigers eliminated the Oakland Athletics and Yankees in
the playoffs, allowed five runs on six hits in four innings.  Cy Youngs  The Giants countered with two Cy Young winners -- Zito, 34,
who won the award in 2002 for the Oakland Athletics, and Tim Lincecum, 28, who won back-to-back Cy Young Awards for the
Giants in 2008-09. Lincecum relieved Zito in the sixth inning
and retired all seven batters he faced, striking out five.  After seven seasons with Oakland, Zito signed a seven-year,
$126 million free-agent deal with the Giants in 2006 that was
the largest contract in MLB history for a pitcher at the time.  He has gone 58-69 with the Giants and struggled so much in
2010 that he was left off the postseason roster as San Francisco
won the World Series. He rebounded to go 15-8 this season, and
then got the victory by pitching 7 2/3 scoreless innings as the
Giants won the fifth game of the NL Championship Series against
the Cardinals.  Sandoval also was benched for most for the 2010 World
Series and then told by the Giants to lose some weight. He
dropped more than 30 pounds as part of what the team playfully
dubbed “Operation Panda.”  Bench Warmers  “You know, we got ups and downs in our career,” Sandoval
said. “We were sitting down on the bench in 2010.”  The Tigers ousted the Yankees in four straight games in the
American League Championship Series. The Giants reached the
World Series by rallying from a 3-1 deficit to defeat the
Cardinals in seven games in the National League.  This is the fourth World Series meeting between a team
coming off a sweep and a club that was pushed to a decisive
seventh game. In the previous three, the team that played a
seven-game league championship series won the World Series,
including the Cardinals’ defeat of the Tigers in 2006.  Though the Giants are in their 19th World Series and the
Tigers are making their 11th appearance, last night’s game was
the first time they’ve met in the title round that began in 1903.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster at AT&T Park in San Francisco at
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  