-- Gold Traders More Bullish as ETP Hoard Sets Record: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-10-26T22:17:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/gold-traders-more-bullish-as-etp-hoard-sets-record-commodities.html
Gold traders are the most bullish in
three weeks as investors’ bullion holdings rose to a record on
mounting speculation that central banks will add stimulus to
bolster economic growth.  Fourteen of 26 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect prices
to rise next week, nine were bearish and three were neutral.
Investors boosted holdings in  exchange-traded products  to an
all-time high of 2,585.1 metric tons yesterday, valued at $142.4
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Hedge funds’ bets on a
rally are near the biggest in more than a year, according to
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data.  Central banks from  Europe  to  China  to the U.S. have pledged
to do more to boost economies. The yen reached a four-month low
versus the dollar this week on speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
will further expand stimulus and the  Federal Reserve  said it
plans to continue buying bonds. Gold rose 70 percent as the Fed
bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative
easing from December 2008 through June 2011.  “The whole economic situation is going to get worse rather
than better,” said Thorsten Polleit, chief economist at Degussa
Goldhandel GmbH, a precious metal trading and investment company
in  Frankfurt . “Paper currencies have already lost their
function as a store of value and it’s getting worse. People are
increasingly putting their savings into precious metals.”  Gold Prices  Gold rose 9.4 percent to $1,711.30 an ounce in London this
year, heading for a 12th straight annual gain, the longest
winning streak in at least nine decades. October’s average of
$1,749 is set to be the third-highest month ever. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities lost 0.9 percent since the
start of January, and the MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of
equities climbed 9.7 percent. Treasuries returned 1.7 percent, a
Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The BOJ, which holds a policy meeting Oct. 30, will
consider raising its asset-purchase program by 10 trillion yen
($125 billion) to 90 trillion yen, the Nikkei newspaper reported
yesterday. The Fed said Oct. 24 it will maintain $40 billion in
monthly purchases of mortgage debt and probably hold interest
rates near zero until mid-2015. The  European Central Bank  has
said it is ready to buy bonds of indebted nations and China
approved a $158 billion subways-to-roads construction plan.  Some investors buy bullion as a hedge against inflation and
a weaker dollar, and the metal generally earns returns only
through price gains, increasing its allure as  interest rates 
decline. Inflation  expectations  measured by the break-even rate
for five-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities jumped 33
percent this year and reached a 16-month high in September.  Investors Buy  Gold ETP holdings gained 7.9 percent since the end of July
and now account for almost a year of mine production, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and Barclays Plc. Speculators’
 wagers  on a rally were the highest since August 2011 in the week
to Oct. 9, CFTC data show. They cut their net-long position by
12 percent to 161,987 futures and options by Oct. 23, the second
straight reduction, data show.  Gold dropped below $1,700 this week as “fatigue set in”
among fund managers after they boosted bets and as prices failed
to reach $1,800, said  Edel Tully , an analyst at UBS AG in
London. Higher prices also curbed physical demand, said Walter de Wet, an analyst at Standard Bank Plc in Johannesburg.  The  U.S. Mint  sold 48,500 ounces of American Eagle gold
coins so far this month, 29 percent fewer than throughout
September, data on its website show. This year’s sales of
530,000 ounces are down 41 percent from the same period in 2011.  Indian Demand  Gold imports by  India , last year’s biggest buyer, slid to
as low as 170 tons in the third quarter from 205 tons a year
earlier, according to Bachhraj Bamalwa, chairman of the All
India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation. Local  prices  fell 5.7
percent since setting a record Sept. 13. Gold’s drop this month
may spur more physical demand in  Asia ,  Standard Bank  said in an
Oct. 24 report. Indian consumers usually boost purchases before
the wedding season and religious festivals later this year.  Central banks have been expanding bullion reserves to
diversify from currencies. Nations may add almost 500 tons this
year, the London-based World Gold Council said in August.  Brazil 
raised its  gold reserves  last month for the first time since
December 2008 and countries from  South Korea  to  Russia  increased
holdings this year, International Monetary Fund data show.  In other commodities, 15 of 30 traders and analysts
surveyed expect copper to gain next week and 10 were bearish.
The metal for delivery in three months, the London Metal
Exchange’s benchmark contract, climbed 2.8 percent to $7,812.25
a ton this year.  Sugar Survey  Fourteen of 20 people surveyed said raw sugar will rise
next week and three expected a decline. The commodity slid 17
percent to 19.35 cents a pound since the start of January on the
ICE Futures U.S. exchange in  New York .  Fifteen of 28 people surveyed anticipate higher corn prices
next week and five were bearish, while 17 of 29 said soybeans
will climb and five predicted a drop. Corn rallied 14 percent to
$7.3775 a bushel in Chicago trading this year as soybeans rose
29 percent to $15.6375 a bushel. Both crops reached records
since August as the worst U.S. drought in a half century hurt
crops.  The GSCI gauge of raw materials erased this year’s gain
three days ago after entering a  bull market  in the third
quarter. The last annual decline was in 2008 and the index made
annual advances in 11 of the past 13 years.  The commodity supercycle has further to go because of
increasing demand from China and  emerging markets , Chris Watling, chief executive officer of Longview Economics Ltd., and
Dambisa Moyo, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist, said
at a conference in London on Oct. 24.  “The inflation story in commodities is warranted,” said
Colin O’Shea, the head of commodities at Hermes Investment
Management Ltd. in London, which manages about $2.3 billion of
raw-material assets. “Inflation could really happen, and happen
in a big way over the course of the next few years.
Historically, the primary reason for investing in commodities is
diversification.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  