-- Goldman, BMO Risk Losing Fees If Nexen Deal Blocked
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-10-25T13:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/goldman-bmo-risk-losing-fees-if-nexen-deal-blocked.html
Financial firms including Bank of
Montreal and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  risk losing as much as
$190 million in advisory fees if the Canadian government rejects
C$23 billion ($23.2 billion) of planned takeovers.  Canada turned down a C$5.2 billion bid by Malaysia’s state-
owned  oil company  for Calgary-based  Progress Energy Resources
Corp. (PRQ)  on Oct. 19, raising concern that a $15.1 billion bid for
 Nexen Inc. (NXY)  by  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  of  China  may face the same fate.  BCE
Inc. (BCE) ’s C$3 billion takeover of  Astral Media Inc. (ACM/A)  was rejected by
Canada’s broadcast regulator a day earlier.  Investment bankers on both sides of the three deals stand
to make as much as $190 million in advisory fees, according to
estimates by New York-based  Freeman & Co. , which specializes in
mergers consulting in the financial industry. Freeman uses its
own model to estimate bank fees based on deal size, industry and
nature of the transaction.  “In the case that the deals fail, adviser banks may get
paid a small percentage, depending on negotiation, of the total
fees,” Lam Nguyen, a director at Freeman, said yesterday. “In
addition, banks advising the target side may split a percentage,
depending on negotiation, of the breakup fees if there are
breakup fees.”  Progress Energy and Kuala Lumpur-based Petroliam Nasional
Bhd., or Petronas, have been speaking with government officials
in Ottawa this week on how to resolve the impasse. The
government ruled the Petronas purchase doesn’t provide a “net
benefit” to Canada.  Progress Costs  Progress said estimated fees and costs from its takeover
are not expected to exceed C$22.7 million, according to
regulatory filings. The amount includes  “employee
obligations,” fees to  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Capital Markets as
its financial adviser and  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  for a fairness
opinion, as well as legal fees and other costs, according to the
July 20 filing.  Paul Deegan, a spokesman for Toronto-based Bank of
Montreal, declined to comment. Scotiabank spokesman Joe Konecny
didn’t immediately provide a comment.  The potential combined advisory fees for both sides on the
Progress-Petronas deal are estimated at $40 million to $50
million, Freeman’s Nguyen said.  Transaction costs for Petronas, which is being advised by
 Bank of America’s  Merrill Lynch unit, haven’t been disclosed.
Kerrie McHugh, a bank spokeswoman, declined to comment.  ‘Success Loaded’  Investment bankers have the most to lose if deals fail,
said Frank Turner, co-chairman of the corporate group at Osler,
Hoskin & Harcourt LLP law firm.  “They’re the ones whose compensation is typically most
tied to a successful outcome,” Turner said in a phone interview
from Calgary yesterday. “For the financial advisers on the sell
side, the banking fee is usually success loaded.”  BCE,  Canada ’s largest telecommunications company, agreed in
March to buy Montreal-based specialty broadcaster Astral to
bolster its French-language programming. The deal was rejected
Oct. 18 by the Canadian Radio-television Telecommunications
Commission, which said it would have given Montreal-based BCE
too much control. While BCE has asked the federal government to
intervene to overturn the regulator’s ruling, it will have to
pay Astral a C$150 million break fee if the deal fails.  That’s creating huge uncertainty for bankers, lawyers and
anyone else doing deals in Canada, said Mirko Bibic, BCE’s chief
legal officer.  ‘Investment Climate’  “I think people are going to be asking themselves what is
the investment climate today and what is it going to be tomorrow
if the markets and investors don’t have the clarity around what
rules exist and if there’s going to be any consistency in their
application,” Bibic said in an Oct. 22 phone interview.
“That’s a fundamental issue that we really need to look at
carefully.”  Astral said transaction costs were estimated at C$14.7
million, including C$7.1 million in fees to financial advisers.
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and Montreal-based  National Bank of Canada (NA) 
advised Astral.  Bank of Montreal and Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce
advised BCE. CIBC spokesman Tom Wallis and National Bank
spokeswoman Joan Beauchamp declined to comment. Mark Langton, a
BCE spokesman, declined to say how much BCE’s advisers stand to
lose from a failed deal.  Freeman’s Nguyen estimates potential total advisory fees
for both sides on the Astral-BCE takeover are $30 million to $40
million.  Work Fees  Bankers will not entirely lose out if a deal fails.
“There’s usually a work fee, but the majority of the fee is on
a contingent basis on the success or completion of the deal,”
Eric Castonguay, a managing director at PwC in Toronto, said in
a phone interview yesterday.  Work fees are usually non-refundable and are typically
fixed monthly to help cover costs for banks working on the
transaction, Castonguay said. Bankers may also get part of any
break fees if a deal doesn’t go through, he said.  Cnooc’s takeover of Nexen also faces a government review
under the Investment Canada Act. The act requires the government
to consider foreign takeovers valued at more than C$330 million
to determine whether they are in the country’s interest and
provide a “net benefit” to Canada.  Nexen Costs  Nexen estimates fees, costs and expenses tied to the Cnooc
takeover to be about C$81.7 million. That includes fees to its
financial advisers, New York-based Goldman Sachs, and Royal
Bank, the country’s biggest bank. Royal Bank spokeswoman Gillian McArdle and  Michael DuVally , a spokesman at Goldman Sachs,
declined to comment.  The potential advisory fees for both sides in the Nexen-
Cnooc deal are estimated at $80 million to $100 million, Nguyen
said.  Cnooc, which is being advised by Bank of Montreal and
Citigroup Inc., said yesterday it’s assuming the Nexen purchase
will get approved. The Chinese oil explorer expects the deal to
be done by year-end and is prepared for all possible outcomes,
Chief Financial Officer Zhong Hua said in a conference call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  