-- Gold Seen Outperforming as Commodity Bull Run Stalls Near-Term
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-10-25T16:21:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/gold-seen-outperforming-as-commodity-bull-run-stalls-near-term.html
Gold may outperform other
commodities as the bull run in raw materials pauses amid slowing
economies, while grains and oilseeds may jump on weather
disruptions, according to participants at the World Commodities
Week conference.  Commodities will likely lack direction for the next 12
months, meaning investors will focus more on relative-value
trades, according to Tiberius Asset Management AG. Deutsche Bank
AG favors precious metals and is neutral on oil and industrial
metals,  Michael Lewis , head of commodities research at the bank,
said today at the conference in London. Bullion isn’t in a
“bubble” at current prices, he said.  “The markets will go sideways in a volatile environment”
in the short term, said Christoph Eibl, a founding partner of
Zug, Switzerland-based Tiberius.  Commodities erased their gains for the year on Oct. 23 on
concern demand for energy, industrial metals and some
agricultural products will slump as economic growth decelerates.
Raw materials, as measured by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index
of 24 commodities, made annual advances in 11 of the last 13
years. The gauge’s last annual drop was in 2008.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2012 global growth
forecast to 3.3 percent on Oct. 9, compared with a July
prediction of 3.5 percent, and expects the euro area to contract
0.4 percent. Growth in  China , the biggest user of everything
from copper to cotton, has slowed for seven consecutive
quarters.  The S&P GSCI gauge is down 1.2 percent this year and the
MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  of equities gained 10 percent. The
U.S.  Dollar Index , a measure against six major trading partners,
fell 0.3 percent.  Fiscal Cliff  Gold won’t become a bubble unless prices rise to a record
above $2,200 an ounce, while oil and industrial metals are
vulnerable to risks associated with the so-called fiscal cliff
in the U.S., said Lewis of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank. He was
referring to $607 billion in federal spending cuts and tax
increases scheduled to take effect in January unless the  U.S.
Congress  intervenes.  Gold is up 9.7 percent this year and traded at $1,715.53 an
ounce by 4:10 p.m. in London. Central banks have been expanding
 gold reserves  after the metal climbed the past 11 years and
investors boosted holdings in bullion-backed  exchange-traded
products  to a record. Nations bought 254.2 tons in the first
half of 2012 and may add close to 500 tons for the year as a
whole, the London-based World Gold Council said in August.  Quantitative Easing  The U.S. Federal Reserve said Sept. 13 it will buy $40
billion of mortgage debt a month in the third round of so-called
quantitative easing and probably hold the federal funds rate
near zero until at least the middle of 2015. Gold prices almost
doubled from December 2008 to June 2011 as the central bank
bought $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of QE.  “Precarious” inventory levels in some agricultural
products, such as soybeans and corn, mean there is little room
in the market to absorb any supply shocks, Lewis said. Rising
inflation related to  food prices  may prevent  emerging markets 
countries from introducing more easing measures that could have
boosted demand for other  raw materials , he said.  “The hardest area to play in commodities is agriculture,”
said Chris Armitage, the U.K. managing director at FourWinds
Capital Management, which oversees about $1 billion in natural-
resource funds.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  estimated in June that
the U.S. would harvest a record 14.79 billion bushels of corn,
before slashing its forecast to 10.7 billion bushels, following
the worst drought in half a century. Wheat has rallied 36
percent in  Chicago  this year, while soybeans are up 30 percent
and corn has gained 17 percent.  Assets Under Management  Commodity assets under management reached $423 billion at
the end of August, from $395 billion at the start of the year,
based on Barclays Plc’s estimates of money tied to exchange-
traded products, medium-term notes and indexes, according to an
Oct. 1 report. Assets reached a record $451 billion in April
2011.  About $50 billion of investments is tracking commodity
indexes other than the two biggest, the S&P GSCI and the Dow
Jones-UBS Commodity Index, according to Dan Raab, head of
commodity investor marketing and structuring at UBS Securities
LLC.  “Commodities as an asset class absolutely can’t be
ignored,” Raab said. “Consumption of raw materials and use of
commodities is likely to increase in the next 20 to 30 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in  London  at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  