-- Gold Futures Rise Most in 3 Weeks on Central Bank Buying
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2012-10-25T18:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/gold-gains-as-drop-to-six-week-low-spurs-buying-etps-set-record.html
Gold climbed the most in three weeks
as  Brazil  and  Turkey ’s central banks increased holdings of the
precious metal and amid signs that purchases are rising in
 India , the world’s biggest buyer.  Brazil added to its gold reserves for the first time since
December 2008, and Turkey also raised its holdings, data on the
International Monetary Fund’s website showed. India tends to buy
more at this time of year because of jewelry demand for the
wedding season and festivals. Prices fell below $1,700 an ounce
yesterday for the first time since Sept. 7, which may have
sparked some physical buying.  “More and more central banks are getting involved in the
gold market,”  David Meger , the director of metal trading at
Vision Financial Markets in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “We are seeing some value buying after prices
slumped, especially in India.”  Gold futures for December delivery advanced 0.7 percent to
settle at $1,713 at 2 p.m. on the Comex in New York, the biggest
gain for a most-active contract since Oct. 4.  The festival season in India began with Dussehra yesterday
and ends in November with Diwali, followed by weddings.  “Physical buying is starting on a strong footing today,”
 Edel Tully , an analyst at UBS AG in London, said in an e-mailed
report.  Silver futures for December delivery rose 1.4 percent to
$32.078 an ounce on the Comex, the biggest advance since Sept.
27.  On the New York Mercantile Exchange, platinum futures for
January delivery climbed 0.4 percent to $1,568.80 an ounce,
snapping a five-session slump, the longest since Aug. 30.  Palladium futures for December delivery gained for the
first time in six sessions, surging 2 percent to $604.50 an
ounce.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  