-- Gordhan Says South Africa Has ‘Sound, Sustainable’ Budget Policy
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-10-25T12:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/gordhan-says-south-africa-has-sound-sustainable-budget-policy.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  spoke to reporters today on the mid-term budget
he presented to lawmakers in  Cape Town .  On the  budget deficit :  “What we are able to do as government is to reassure South
Africans that we have an extremely sound and sustainable
framework. We are fiscally safe, we are not about to fall off of
any cliff. There is enough money in the system in order to
deliver the economic support, the social wage, and to meet the
immediate needs of the programs we have.”  On the ruling African National Congress December election:  “It is our wish and hope that by the time we get to the
16th of December and more particularly the 20th, we will have
reached a point where all the questions that may be of concern
are resolved sufficiently in order to provide clarity for those
of us who are policy makers and for those watching us.”  On credit rating downgrades:  “There are too many people outside of this country who are
making judgment calls. There is no catastrophe that is going to
hit our country at this time. There is no need for the
pessimism. We have survived worse than this in getting to where
we are here today.”  On the ANC government’s management since the end of apartheid:  “For the record, the ANC government has had a virtually
spectacular record in terms of fiscal management. Nothing
suggests we are going off the wall. What we are demonstrating is
that we are sticking to sound foundations of fiscal policy,
counter-cyclicality, debt sustainability, inter-generational
equity, and showing we remain agile in the environment we find
ourselves in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  