-- Gordhan Scrambles to Reassure Investors on S. Africa Budget
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-10-26T10:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/gordhan-scrambles-to-reassure-investors-on-south-african-budget.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  will have to do more than just keep a lid on
spending to reassure investors spooked by the worst mining
strikes since the end of apartheid, said economists from
Johannesburg to London.  While Gordhan, 63, pledged to freeze spending targets for
the first time since 1998, he failed to say in his mid-term
budget yesterday how he will address the fiscal burden of an
unemployment rate that’s headed for 25 percent. He may also
struggle to contain debt levels as slower economic growth curbs
tax revenue. Fitch Ratings said today rising debt will push
interest payments above the median for its BBB credit rating.  “It is a conservative and entirely predictable budget but
it doesn’t offer any bold steps,” George Glynos, an analyst at
ETM Analytics in Johannesburg, said in a phone interview
yesterday. “He talks about fiscal discipline but I don’t really
see that.”  The government is under increased scrutiny as labor unrest
adds to pressure on the budget and the ruling African National
Congress pledges “radical” shifts at its December leadership
conference. Slowing growth and rising social tensions have
already sparked the first downgrades since the end of apartheid
in 1994, with Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poor’s
cutting the nation’s ratings in the past month. Fitch will give
its review of the country early next year, the company said in a
statement.  Violent Strikes  The government already gives welfare grants to about 16
million people, or a third of the population of 50.6 million.  The rand has slumped 5.9 percent against the dollar since
the Moody’s downgrade on Sept. 27, the worst performance of more
than 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It weakened 0.1
percent to 8.7507 a dollar at 12:26 p.m. in Johannesburg.  Strikes that began at  Lonmin Plc (LON) ’s Marikana mine on Aug. 10
spread to operations owned by  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ,  Gold
Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , costing 10.1 billion
rand ($1.2 billion) in lost gold and platinum production this
year, the National Treasury said yesterday.  Gordhan raised his budget deficit target to 4.8 percent of
gross domestic product in the year through March, compared with
a February estimate of 4.6 percent after lowering the tax
collection goal by about 4 billion rand. The shortfall will
reach 4.5 percent next year, up from an earlier forecast of 4
percent, he said.  ‘Fiscal Ship’  “The minister is really trying to say that the fiscal ship
is not going under and trying to install confidence,” Rian le Roux, chief economist of Old Mutual Investment Group, South
Africa’s largest private money manager, said in phone interview
from Cape Town. “While he is trying hard, I think the jury is
still out.”  Policy risks are rising as the ANC heads to its December
leadership summit. In June, President Jacob Zuma said the party
had agreed on the need for “more radical policies” to address
unemployment, poverty and inequality. The ANC will decide on
proposals for new taxes on mining companies, nationalizing some
mineral assets or increasing its share in mining projects.  “The fiscal numbers look stable and we believe they have
always looked sustainable,” Gordhan said in an interview
yesterday in his Cape Town office. “We have demonstrated that
whatever the politics are in our environment, we need to keep,
and will keep the fiscal ship steady.”  Extracting more revenue from mining companies may further
deter investment in the world’s biggest producer of platinum,
chrome and manganese. About 20,000 workers have already been
fired in the mining industry since an illegal strike started
Aug. 10 at Lonmin’s Marikana mine.  Growth Slows  Moody’s and S&P should have waited until after the ANC
conference to make their assessments, Gordhan said.  The mid-term budget contained evidence of further weakening
in the country’s public finances and its failure to meet fiscal
targets was eroding one of its key ratings strengths, Fitch said
today. Gross debt, which is forecast to peak at 42.7 percent of
GDP in the fiscal year through March 2016, is above BBB-rated
peers, it said.  “The further delay to fiscal consolidation highlights the
challenges to fiscal planning and will put upward pressure on
debt levels,” the ratings company said in an e-mail today.
“Failure to accelerate growth and make it more sustainably
labor intensive would hamper job creation and increase the risk
of social strife, with negative implications for the investment
climate and credit fundamentals.”  Stable Footing  The budget deficit was forecast to reach 4.9 percent of GDP
this year, according to the median estimate of six economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. While spending will rise 8.5 percent to
1.15 trillion rand in the year through March 2014 and increase
7.9 percent the following year, that’s in line with the
government’s targets in February.  “The key for us today is to put this country on a stable
footing,” Gordhan said. “Restoring normality is going to be a
key goal over the next few months.”  Gordhan lowered his forecast for  economic growth  this year
to 2.5 percent from 2.7 percent, and cut next year’s estimate to
3 percent from 3.6 percent. The economy will probably expand 3.8
percent in 2014, down from an earlier projection of 4.2 percent.  The budget plans “will be viewed positively” by rating
companies “although their doubts about the political cycle may
well persist,” Razia Khan, head of Africa economic research at
Standard Chartered Plc in  London , said in an e-mailed note to
clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  