-- Gordhan Reins in South Africa Spending to Restore Confidence
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-10-25T15:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/gordhan-reins-in-south-african-spending-to-restore-confidence.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  plans to restrain spending over the next three
years to help restore confidence in Africa’s largest economy in
the face of wider budget deficit targets and rating downgrades.  Slower  economic growth  following a series of mining strikes
will curb tax revenue, widening the fiscal gap to 4.8 percent of
gross domestic product in the year through March, compared with
a February estimate of 4.6 percent, Gordhan said in his mid-term
budget released in Cape Town today. The shortfall will reach 4.5
percent next year, up from an earlier forecast of 4 percent.  South Africa didn’t raise three-year spending targets for
the first time since 1998, with Gordhan ordering government
departments to cut back on wasteful expenditure as rising debt
levels put the nation under increased scrutiny from rating
companies following the first downgrades since the end of
apartheid. That’s limiting the room to stimulate the economy and
tackle a 25 percent jobless rate as the global outlook worsens.  “These constraints make it imperative that we do things
differently,” Gordhan said. “Government departments will need
to live within our means. Spending needs to become more
efficient and achieve value for money. Wastage of taxpayers’
money must come to an end.”  ‘Trying Hard’  Spending will rise 8.5 percent to 1.15 trillion rand ($132
billion) in the year through March 2014 and increase 7.9 percent
the following year, in line with the government’s targets in
February, the National Treasury said.  The rand extended its gain after Gordhan’s speech, gaining
as much as 1.2 percent to 8.682 per dollar today in
Johannesburg. The yield on the rand bond due in 2015 rose 1
basis point to 5.48 percent.  “The market clearly likes what it has heard,” Razia Khan,
the London-based head of  Africa  economic research at Standard
Chartered Plc, said in a note to clients. “For ratings
agencies, the fact that no additional spending is planned beyond
that set out as a baseline in the 2012 budget, will be viewed
positively, although their doubts about the political cycle may
well persist.”  The deficit was forecast to reach 4.9 percent of GDP this
year, according to the median estimate of six economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Revenue, which will probably be 4 billion rand lower than
projected at 901 billion rand this year, will increase 9.5
percent and 11 percent for the next two years respectively.  Tax Increases  “We will look at expenditure to see if there are areas we
can squeeze without impacting growth,” Lungisa Fuzile,
director-general of the Treasury, said in an interview in Cape
Town. “We may look at certain opportunities where certain taxes
can be increased.”  Moody’s Investors Service cut the rating on the
government’s debt by one level to Baa1 on Sept. 27, citing
increased pressure to boost social spending as job losses mount.
Strikes that began at  Lonmin Plc (LON) ’s Marikana mine on Aug. 10
spread to operations owned by  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ,  Gold
Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , costing 10.1 billion
rand in lost production, according to the Treasury.  Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s, which lowered South Africa’s
rating to BBB on Oct. 12, highlighted increased policy risks as
the ruling African National Congress pushes for “radical”
programs to address poverty and unemployment. About 16 million
people, or a third of the population of 50.6 million, receive
welfare grants.  ‘Little Understanding’  “I am not sure whether people who have very little
understanding of the South African environment and politics are
in a position to anticipate all sort of things,” Gordhan said
in an interview today in his Cape Town office. “Why didn’t they
wait for the ANC conference to be over, and if something
disastrous happened there they can take whatever decision they
want.”  South Africa is running bigger deficits than other major
 emerging markets  and its action is counter to fiscal austerity
measures in European nations, including Greece and Spain, aimed
at trimming fiscal deficits to avoid debt defaults.  Brazil  is
targeting a public-sector gap of 1.6 percent of GDP for 2012,
while  Turkey  is projecting 2.3 percent for its central
government shortfall.  Interest Payments  Gross debt in South Africa is set to increase to 42.4
percent of GDP in the year through March 2014 from a February
estimate of 42.2 percent and to peak at 42.7 percent in the year
after that.  Interest payments on debt are projected to rise 8.9 percent
a year over the next three years, reaching 114.8 billion rand in
2015/16, the Treasury said. South Africa will spend 89 billion
rand to service debt this fiscal year, more than on policing and
schools and second only to welfare payments, its data show.  “We are very close to the upper limits of what we can fund
through debt,” Fuzile said.  Investors reacted to the credit rating downgrades by
selling rand-denominated assets. The currency has plunged 5.1
percent against the dollar since the Moody’s downgrade, the
biggest decline of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Gordhan lowered his forecast for economic growth this year
to 2.5 percent from 2.7 percent, and cut next year’s estimate to
3 percent from 3.6 percent. The economy will probably expand 3.8
percent in 2014, down from an earlier projection of 4.2 percent.  “If GDP growth does not match expectations, revenue will
fall short of current forecasts, implying the need for policy
shifts to achieve the targets in the fiscal framework,” the
Treasury said. “An appropriate balance between spending
restraint and new revenue initiatives would be necessary, taking
into account the need to limit the potential impact on growth,
employment and equity. The risk of further sovereign downgrades
needs to be considered.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  