-- Football-Ticket Tax Break Helps Colleges Get Millions
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   C h a r l e s   R .   B a b c o c k
-- 2012-10-25T04:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/got-college-football-tickets-take-a-tax-break.html
Theodore L. Jones has held season
tickets on the 43-yard line at Tiger Stadium, home of the
 perennial football powerhouse   Louisiana State University , for
almost 20 years. Because of the Baton Rouge lawyer’s lobbying in
Congress in 1986, he and thousands of other fans get a tax break
on donations they make as a condition for buying seats.  The deduction Jones helped craft is now costing U.S.
taxpayers more than $100 million a year in revenue that the
Treasury can’t collect, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  It is the sort of provision that  Mitt Romney  and
congressional Republicans say they will target if they win this
November’s elections. There are hundreds of write-offs in the
 tax code  that lawmakers of both parties say could be restricted
to help lower the deficit. Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas
Republican and a senior member of the House Ways and Means
Committee, urges a tax overhaul to bolster the economy.  “We need to look at everything,” Brady said when asked
about the deduction on donations linked to college sports
tickets. No one has specifically targeted the provision. “It’s
important, vitally important to somebody, but the overall goal
is still: How do we create that pro-growth tax code?”  Romney, the Republican presidential candidate, advocates
curtailing breaks so he can lower personal and corporate rates,
though he hasn’t provided specifics. Various deductions for
charitable contributions to education cost the Treasury $5.7
billion this year, according to Congress’s Joint Committee on
Taxation. The estimate doesn’t break out the loss of revenue
from donations linked to sports tickets.  ‘Extremely Popular’  At the same time, the college seat-donation tax break may
show how hard it would be to simplify the tax system. In this
case, hundreds of universities -- many of them large, state-
supported institutions -- and thousands of voters benefit from
the provision. It is one of hundreds of exemptions around which
entrenched interests have organized their own economies and
which they would probably fight to retain.  “College athletics are extremely popular,” says Marcus Owens, a lawyer in the  Washington  law firm Caplin & Drysdale. He
is a former head of the Internal Revenue Service’s Exempt
Organizations Division. “They are often associated with state
institutions. In a lot of states, a significant percentage of
the adult population went to some state institution, has an
allegiance to the athletic teams and represents a considerable
voting bloc.”  Increasing Revenue  No government agency has totaled the cost to taxpayers of
the deduction for donations linked to college sports tickets.
Neither has the 75-year-old  Tax Foundation , a nonpartisan
Washington research group.  Some U.S. colleges with the most popular teams in football,
basketball and hockey take advantage of the provision to market
higher prices to season-ticket buyers. They set the face value,
then demand additional hundreds or thousands of dollars in what
are designated contributions as a condition of sale. The pitch
is that under U.S. law, the fans can write off 80 percent of the
mandatory donations when they itemize deductions. Other schools
don’t set specific donation levels. Instead, they award seat
locations using point systems in which giving may be one element.  34 Colleges  To obtain a sampling of the data, Bloomberg made public-
records requests to the 54 state-sponsored universities in the
six largest football conferences. Some schools said they don’t
require donations to buy season tickets, and several said they
couldn’t provide the data. At some institutions, the gifts are
collected by nonprofit booster clubs that don’t report donations
by type.  The 34 that reported seat donations said they received
$467.2 million in such contributions for the fiscal year ended
June 30, 2011.  Ohio State University  collected the most, with
$38.7 million. The only two schools that initially qualified
under the provision ranked second and third: LSU, with $38
million, and the  University of Texas  at Austin, $33.9 million.  For those 34 schools, that means taxpayers could deduct as
much as $373.7 million, or 80 percent of the total of donations.
Based on a 28 percent tax rate -- the third-highest, for married
couples reporting incomes between $142,700 and $217,449 -- that
would reduce revenue to the Treasury by $104.6 million. That
cost estimate assumes the seat donations would all be deducted
from individuals’ tax returns; the universities in the survey
don’t break out gifts tied to ticket purchases by corporate
buyers.  1,000 Eligible  The total of lost federal tax receipts may be some multiple
of that amount, because more than 1,000 university sports
departments are eligible to demand such deductible gifts with
ticket sales. Based on the Bloomberg sampling, it wouldn’t be
unreasonable to estimate that giving related to season tickets
may total $1 billion a year, according to  Andrew Zimbalist , an
economist at Smith College in Northampton,  Massachusetts , who
has written 12 books on the business of sports.  In 1988 after the seat-donation provision was expanded,
Congress’s Joint Committee on Taxation calculated that it would
cost less than $500,000 a year in forgone tax collections.  For  Ted Jones , the 78-year-old LSU fan, here’s how it works
for his seats in “Death Valley,” the stadium where LSU has won
almost three-quarters of its games since 1924. His two seats on
the 43-yard line, which were passed on to him by the family of a
friend who died, are 34 rows from the field. He pays $410 for
each ticket, plus a required $950 donation per seat. For two
other seats around the 10-yard line, the tickets also cost $410,
after he makes a $900 donation for each.  Jones’s Write-Off  So to qualify for buying $1,640 of tickets to eight games
this season, he had to donate an additional $3,700. He gets to
write off 80 percent of that, or $2,960, when he itemizes
deductions on his  tax return . Because Jones says his income has
put him in the top 35 percent bracket, the provision saves him
$1,036.  Jones has been going to LSU football games since the 1960s.
The home team has put a  tiger named Mike  on the sidelines for
decades. Jones recalls a game in a downpour in the late 1970s
against the appropriately named Oregon Ducks. Another memory is
of the  “earthquake game”  in 1988, when LSU beat  Auburn
University , 7-6, on a last-chance pass. As local lore has it,
the roar of the crowd registered on the school’s seismograph.  Donations required to buy season tickets in the LSU stadium
range from $210 for end-zone seats to $3,000 for club seats,
according to Herb Vincent, a spokesman for the athletic
department. The money goes to scholarships, facilities and other
costs, he says.  The school has an athletic budget of $107.3 million,
according to its fiscal 2011 filing with the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association . LSU’s football team, usually a contender
for the national championship, is currently  ranked No. 6  in the
Associated Press and USA Today polls.  Truman Era  The roots of the seat-donation deduction go all the way
back to the  Revenue Act of 1950  during the Truman administration,
according to Owens, the former IRS official. In an effort to
rein in profits for untaxed groups such as charities, Congress
in the 1950 law imposed taxes on their “unrelated business
income.” But the act’s legislative history specified that the
U.S. couldn’t tax revenue from college athletics tickets, the
primary source of sports revenue then, Owens said.  As Congress was writing the  Tax Reform Act of 1986 , the IRS
had ruled that donations required for ticket purchases shouldn’t
be tax-exempt. At the time, Jones was a lobbyist for the state
in Washington, and LSU’s athletic director, the late Bob
Brodhead, asked him to push to protect the deduction.  Long, Pickle  Brodhead wanted to expand Tiger Stadium to add premium
seats that he could leverage into increased donations. He asked
Jones “to make sure that if LSU built suites, it would be
deductible,” Jones says. He approached Senator Russell Long,
the senior Democrat on the Finance Committee, about amending the
879-page bill. Long was an LSU graduate who represented
 Louisiana  for 39 years.  “I said, ‘We need to exempt LSU on the donation deduction
on the seats,”’ Jones says. Long agreed and asked “Who else?”
because he didn’t want the amendment to be a “rifle shot” with
just one beneficiary, Jones says.  Jones recalls suggesting the University of Texas at Austin,
another football power. He thought Democratic Representative
Jake Pickle, a UT graduate on the Ways and Means Committee whose
district included Austin, would be supportive, he says.  Two Schools  According to another version, UT contacted Pickle on the
matter, and he discussed it with the tax-writing committee,
whose bill already had passed the House. When Long’s provision
was raised later during negotiations, Ways and Means Chairman
Dan Rostenkowski, the late Illinois Democrat, asked whether any
of his members cared. Pickle’s interest was recalled, and the
two-school measure stuck, according to a former House aide
familiar with the matter who declined to be identified. Pickle
and Long have since died.  The provision they crafted became section 1608 of the
historic measure, which eliminated many business tax breaks and
overhauled levies on individuals. The amendment allowed LSU and
UT season ticket buyers to deduct 100 percent of donations
linked to their seats. It described the schools eligible for the
tax break in such a way that no others could qualify. Here is
the language covering  UT :  “Such institution was mandated by a State constitution in
1876; such institution was established by a State legislature in
March 1881; is located in a State capital pursuant to a
statewide election in Sept. 1881; the campus of such institution
formally opened on Sept. 15, 1883; such institution is operated
under the authority of a 9-member board of regents appointed by
the governor.”  Colleges Complain  The law declared that donations to the schools “shall not
be disqualified because such taxpayer receives the right to
seating or the right to purchase seating in an athletic stadium
of such institution.”  When the identities of the two schools later became known,
other colleges complained. Rather than repeal the provision,
Congress voted in 1988 to extend the benefit to all of them,
while reducing the deduction to 80 percent of contributions.  Jones defends the long-term effect of the write-off, saying
it has allowed LSU to fund women’s sports and channel millions
of dollars a year into academics. In fiscal 2011, the athletic
department paid $10 million for student-athlete scholarships and
gave $3.6 million to the university for academics, according to
the school. Jones likened the tax break to Senator Long’s
description of the benefits from the old business deduction for
the three-martini lunch.  ‘Like Fertilizer’  “Those kinds of deductions are like fertilizer to a
farmer,” Jones said, quoting Long. “They increase the yield.”  The $33.9 million in gifts that UT collected in connection
with sales of season tickets in fiscal 2011 helped the athletic
department generate $150.3 million in revenue. That made it the
richest sports program among American colleges, based on data
compiled by Bloomberg. The university reported spending $9
million on athletic scholarships.  DeLoss Dodds, the UT athletic director, didn’t respond to
multiple interview requests.  At  Texas A&M University  in  College Station , the $20 million
in gifts tied to season tickets will only go up over time as
fans compete for the best seats, says Miles Marks, who was
president of the 12th Man Foundation booster club until Oct. 1,
when he stepped down. The seat-donation total was ninth-highest
in the Bloomberg sampling.  A&M’s Advantage  A&M has a fundraising advantage because of its strong
football tradition and dedicated fan base, Marks says. At
schools that can’t demand seat donations in the thousands of
dollars, the only way to increase revenue if lawmakers eliminate
the tax deduction would be to raise ticket prices, he says.  “Demand would go down,” Marks says. “There is a trickle-
down effect.”  LSU’s Tiger Stadium has 92,542 seats, more than any venue
in the  National Football League . Of those, 67,000 command a
donation, according to the spokesman Vincent. Now the school is
spending about $80 million to double the number of luxury boxes
to 140 and the number of premium club seats to 7,000.  This will enable LSU to increase revenue from seat
donations by as much as $15 million, according to R.G. Richard,
president of the Tiger Athletic Foundation, a tax-exempt booster
organization that helps raise money for sports. Even after the
expansion, there will be 1,500 people on the waiting list for
club seats and 100 for suites, says Richard, who is a retired
Marine Corps major general.  Not Needed  The 10 to 15 most powerful football programs, including LSU,
probably don’t need the tax break to persuade fans to pay up for
seats, Richard says.  “It’s commonly said of LSU that roughly 80 percent of the
state’s business is done in a five-hour period Saturday night in
the premium seating area,” Richard says.  No matter which candidate wins the presidential election,
there may be little stomach in Congress for taking away tax
breaks that help college athletics, says Owens, the Washington
tax lawyer. Since the 1980s, Congress and U.S. courts have
consistently overridden IRS moves to tax college sports on TV
revenue and sponsorship income, he says.  University athletics benefit from other tax breaks. Donors
can usually write off gifts for athletic facilities. College
programs are excused from paying taxes on billions of dollars in
revenue from television, advertising, sponsorships, licensing
and royalties. Stadiums built or renovated using municipal debt
benefit from lower costs as buyers of the bonds are exempt from
taxes on interest.  Zimbalist, the sports economist at  Smith College , argues
that Congress should weed out many of the preferences, including
the seat-donation deduction and the tax exemptions on TV and
sponsorship revenue. The IRS has attacked some of the breaks
“until it is blue in the face” and has “basically
succumbed,” he says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware, at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Charles R. Babcock in Washington at 
cbabcock1bloomberg.net.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 