-- Gross Says Structural Headwinds to Dominate After Election
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-10-25T20:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/gross-says-structural-headwinds-to-dominate-after-u-s-election.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said structural headwinds will dominate the economic
debate no matter who wins the U.S. presidential election.  “The structural headwinds in terms of economic growth, the
 budget deficit , the fiscal cliff” will dominate political
discourse, Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop” with
 Betty Liu . “It means lower growth. The structural issues are
really related to an excessive amount of debt, an excessive
amount of leverage that’s been built up over 10 or 20 years.”  Markets suggest that a victory by Mitt Romney will be
better for equities because taxes on dividends and capital gains
won’t be going up as much as under a second  Barack Obama 
administration, Gross said. Marketable  U.S. government debt  has
grown to $10.75 trillion from $4.3 trillion in 2006.  Stocks will likely gain about 4 percent to 5 percent
annually going forward, while bonds may return about 2 percent
to 3 percent, he said. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of stocks
has appreciated 15 percent this year. Treasuries have risen 1.66
percent during that span, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data.  Fund Holdings  Gross reduced his holdings of Treasuries for a third
consecutive month in September to the lowest level since last
October on concern record U.S. debt will lead to inflation.  The proportion of U.S. government and Treasury debt in the
$278 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  dropped to 20 percent of assets
from 21 percent in August, according to latest available data on
the Newport Beach, California-based company’s  website . Mortgages
remained his largest holding at 49 percent.  The fund gained 12 percent over the past year, beating 96
percent of rival funds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It has returned 8.5 percent over five years, topping 96 percent
of comparable funds.  Republican nominee Romney has said he disagrees with the
 Federal Reserve ’s unprecedented measures to stimulate the
economy and would replace Chairmen Ben S. Bernanke. Suggestions
that Republicans would pursue “tight money” policies is likely
little more than political rhetoric, Gross said.  “Republican have never really been a tight-money party,”
he said. “To think that Republicans would be favoring tight
money, I think is an election-year type of proposition.”  Quantitative Easing  Democrat President  Jimmy Carter  appointed  Paul Volcker ,
known for taming inflation in the 1980s, as  Fed chairman , while
Republican President  Richard Nixon  abandoned the gold standard
in the 1970s, Gross noted. Bernanke was appointed by Republican
President  George W. Bush .  The Fed has sought to drive down unemployment by keeping
its target rate for overnight loans between banks between zero
and 0.25 percent since December 2008 and purchasing $2.3
trillion of securities in two rounds of a monetary policy known
as quantitative easing.  Frustrated by the slow pace of the recovery, the central
bank announced Sept. 13 that it would likely keep rates at a
record low and also said it would inject more money into the
economy by purchasing $40 billion of mortgage bonds per month in
a third round of QE.  The  U.S. economy  is likely to grow about 1.5 percent,
according to Pimco Chief Executive Officer Mohamed El-Erian.
Gross domestic product is forecast to expand 2.1 percent this
year and 2 percent in 2013, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “There is an extreme difference between valuations that
are up here, and fundamentals that are down here,” El-Erian,
also the co-chief investment officer at Pimco, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart” with  Trish Regan . “The equity
market has priced in not just an active Fed, but also an
effective Fed, and we’re getting a question mark as to whether
effectiveness is as high as we’d like it to be.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  