-- IBM Received Request From SEC Over Dealings With Iran, ZTE
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 2012-10-25T23:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/ibm-received-request-from-sec-over-dealings-with-iran-zte-1-.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  received a request from the Securities and Exchange
Commission to describe its interactions with  Iran , following
reports that  ZTE Corp. (000063)  resold some IBM products in the country.  IBM supplied information to the SEC, which completed its
investigation in September, according to  documents released 
today. As IBM’s business partner, ZTE is required to comply
fully with U.S. regulations, including economic sanctions and
export laws, IBM said in its response to the SEC.  “Iran is designated as a state sponsor of terrorism by the
State Department and is subject to U.S. economic sanctions and
export controls,” the SEC said in an August letter to IBM.
“Please describe to us the nature, duration, and extent of your
past, current, and anticipated contacts with Iran, whether
through subsidiaries, distributors, resellers, or other direct
or indirect arrangements.”  The SEC also requested information about IBM’s contacts
with Syria, Sudan and Cuba. IBM responded on Sept. 10, saying it
“complies with all U.S. economic sanctions and export laws and
regulations, including those regarding countries identified as
state sponsors of terrorism.” In a follow-up letter to IBM on
Sept. 25, the SEC said it had completed its review.  ‘Great Seriousness’  “IBM takes its obligations regarding export compliance
with great seriousness,”  Doug Shelton , a spokesman for Armonk,
New York-based IBM, said in an e-mail. “Our agreements with our
business partners specifically prohibit them from the transfer
of IBM products to Iran. If any of IBM’s business partners are
breaching our export compliance agreements, IBM will take
appropriate actions.”  Margrete Ma, a spokeswoman for Shenzhen, China-based ZTE,
didn’t reply to an e-mail sent after business hours local time.  In June, U.S. lawmakers asked ZTE and another Chinese
telecommunications company, Huawei Technologies Co., for details
about their business dealings as part of an investigation into
how their expansion may affect U.S. security. In the letter,
they questioned whether ZTE sold “highly sophisticated
surveillance technology” to the Iranian government.  The House Intelligence Committee began an investigation
last year “to review the threat posed to U.S. national security
interests by telecommunications companies with potential ties to
the Chinese government,” according to a committee statement.  IBM shares  climbed less than 1 percent to $191.60 at the
close in  New York . The stock has risen 4.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in New York at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  