-- Hidden Vietnam Billionaire Parlays Noodles Into Property
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2012-10-25T10:13:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/hidden-vietnam-billionaire-parlays-noodles-into-property.html
Pham Nhat Vuong became a billionaire
selling a Ukrainian instant-noodle business and creating
 Vietnam ’s biggest property developer.  The 44-year-old chairman of  Vingroup Joint-Stock Co. (VIC) , which
is building eight mixed-use projects in prime locations in
Vietnam at a total cost of more than $4 billion, plans to get
even richer selling high- and mid-end apartments to Asians who
want to reallocate their holdings from cash and gold.  “Vietnamese people still hold a lot of gold as their
savings,” Vuong said in an interview at the company’s
headquarters in  Hanoi . “Vietnamese are very similar to the
Chinese. They just can’t sit on gold bars underneath their beds.
Eventually they will pull out their gold bars and invest. It
will be a boom for the real-estate market.”  Vuong and his wife, Pham Thu Huong, own about 50 percent of
Vingroup, Vietnam’s fifth-biggest company by market value.
Excluding shares he has pledged as collateral to finance some of
the company’s real estate projects, Vuong is worth $1.3 billion,
according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index . He has never
appeared on an international wealth ranking.  Vingroup is seeking to raise about $300 million in a share
sale in  Singapore  by August to fund its Vietnamese expansion.
The company shelved plans for a Singapore listing last year when
the city-state’s benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  fell 17 percent.  “If you give me $10 billion now, I would spend it all on
construction because there’s so much more to build,” Vuong
said. “There is tremendous demand in Vietnam.”  Outside Vietnam  The billionaire said he also has plans to build properties
in Singapore or Hong Kong, where some of  Asia ’s biggest
developers are based.  Vuong studied geological economic engineering at Moscow
Geology University in  Russia . After school, he moved to  Ukraine ,
where he created LLC Technocom, a producer of more than 100
dehydrated food products, including instant noodles and mashed
potatoes.  He sold the company for an undisclosed price to Nestle SA
in 2010. Technocom had revenue of more than $100 million at the
time of the sale. Based on the average revenue multiple of
mergers and acquisitions involving food companies worldwide in
2010, the company could have been valued at $150 million when
the billionaire sold the operation to the Vevey, Switzerland-
based food company that year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Vuong declined to comment on the sale price because
of a confidentiality agreement.  Back Home  Vuong returned to live in Vietnam in 2001, when he started
resort developer Vinpearl Joint-Stock Co. He set up Vincom
Joint-Stock Co., which develops mid- to high-end commercial and
residential properties, the following year. Vinpearl and Vincom,
both of which were  listed , merged to form Vingroup this year.  Vingroup has controlling interests in 18 mixed-use and
resort projects it is building in Vietnam, including in Hanoi,
Ho Chi Minh City, Hung Yen and Da Nang. It opened shopping mall
Vincom Center A Ho Chi Minh City, which houses luxury names
including Hermes and  Christian Dior , in the commercial capital
earlier this month. Its effective interest in the projects it is
building is about 93 square kilometers as of Sept. 30.  Vingroup’s projects in Hanoi, known for its French colonial
architecture and tree-lined boulevards, are within 10 kilometers
of the city center. The government, which created a market
economy with Doi Moi, or economic renovation policies, in 1986,
is seeking to develop the capital into a modern metropolis.  Fengshui Matters  At the mixed-use  Royal City  project, situated at an old
factory site about 5 kilometers from Hanoi’s central business
district, construction continues around the clock. Buyers of the
high-end apartments, which are being sold at $1,800 to $2,500 a
square meter, can adapt the design of their units to suit their
“fengshui,” or Chinese geomancy, needs. The project will
include the first indoor water park and ice-skating rink in
Vietnam when completed next year.  At  Times City , located in a bustling residential and
commercial area in Hanoi, Vingroup opened Vietnam’s first
hospital that offers single-patient rooms and presidential
suites. The project, scheduled to be completed in 2014, also
includes residential blocks, a mall and an international school.  Vuong, a father of three, said he wants to sell a new
“living experience” for Vietnamese people.  “We want to bring better products to Vietnam,” he said.
“My hope is through changes in lifestyle and the products we
consume, it will affect the people and change the way they are
thinking. The country will develop further from where it is
today.”  Urban Renewal  Vingroup has acquired land from factories that are
relocating from central districts to the outskirts of the city
as the capital pushes through its urban renewal plan. The
company owns about 10,200 hectares of land in prime locations in
Hanoi, the southern commercial capital of  Ho Chi Minh City , as
well as the coastal cities of Nha Trang, Da Nang and Hai Phong.  Buying land in prime or unique locations has enabled
Vingroup to sell its properties at a premium to market rates,
even during a downturn, said Phuong Ton, an analyst at Viet
Capital Securities in Ho Chi Minh City, who has a “hold”
recommendation on the stock. Another key selling point is the
developer’s ability to complete its projects within a short
period of time, she said.  Vingroup “has a special advantage in terms of capital;
that’s why they can target those projects which require a lot of
leverage right at the beginning,” Ton said. “Most of the
properties that they have introduced in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh
City have incorporated some new development concept in
Vietnam.”  Convertible Financing  The company sold $300 million of convertible bonds to
international investors this year. It raised $100 million in the
first overseas convertible bond sale by a Vietnamese company in
2009. Vingroup had assets of about $1.7 billion and liabilities
of $1.3 billion as of Dec. 31, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The billionaire said he will develop properties outside of
Vietnam “when there’s a good opportunity.” He hired McKinsey &
Co. this year to conduct a strategic review of Vingroup’s
business and advise the company on its future.  “Given their vision, limiting themselves to Vietnam’s
boundaries would limit their growth potential,” Viet Capital
Securities’ Ton said.  Vuong travels to other cities for ideas. When the developer
was building the Vincom Center in Ho Chi Minh City, he organized
a trip to Singapore for the complex’s retail tenants, paying for
their airfare and accommodation. They went to Ion Orchard,
jointly owned by Singapore-based CapitaLand Ltd. and  Hong Kong ’s
Sun Hung Kai Properties Ltd., to study its shop front and other
features of the luxury shopping mall.  Dismantling Rooms  Before building Vinpearl Resort Nha Trang, his first
hospitality project, nestled on a private beach by the  South
China Sea , Vuong visited the hotels in Phuket with a screwdriver
stashed in his suitcase. He used the tool to dismantle hotel
room fittings -- before reassembling them -- to understand how
they were put together.  “He’s very modest and down-to-earth,” said Le Thi Thu
Thuy, chief executive of Vingroup and a former Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. investment banker. “He always tells management to
continue learning every day, that you can’t be happy, content
with what you already have.”  Limited Affordability  The size of Vuong’s target customers is unclear. Vietnam’s
urban population is growing 3.4 percent annually, according to
the  World Bank , with growth fastest in and around the two
biggest cities, Ho Chi Minh City and Hanoi. Only about 5 percent
of the population in the two largest cities is able to afford
homes currently being produced by large developers, according to
the lender.  About 47 percent of households in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh
City earn an average annual income of $7,425, according to
property broker CBRE Group Inc.’s local unit, which said it
would take 51 years to save enough money to buy a mid-end
condominium that would cost $72,000.  The majority of real estate purchases in Vietnam are still
made without a mortgage. It would take the average household 242
years to save enough to buy a $342,000 luxury condominium,
according to CBRE’s local unit.  Home prices  in Ho Chi Minh City surged almost threefold
from 2004 to the first quarter of 2008, according to CBRE data.
Values then fell as the government raised  interest rates  and
restricted lending for real estate and other non-productive
sectors, in a bid to tackle inflation.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam has lowered its key refinance
rate by 500 basis points since March to 10 percent, as annual
inflation plunged back toward single digits from a high of 23
percent in August last year.  Sales Data  Vingroup sold 7,000 to 8,000 residential units at the end
of 2010 and early 2011, Vuong said. The apartment units at the
Vincom Center in Ho Chi Minh City, which also boasts a spa and
fitness center, were sold in 2010 at an average selling price of
about $8,000 per square meter, a record in Vietnam.  Vuong, who values discipline and rewards those who do well,
upholds a slogan for employees: “Speed, creativity and
efficiency in everything you do, in every action.”  The billionaire plays soccer and basketball every week with
Vingroup employees at the company’s sports center, often trading
his suit and tie for a company soccer team’s red jersey and
shorts. He plays the position of striker, whose job is to score
goals.  “Attacking is better than defending,” he said, adding
that he applies that principle to everything he does.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore at 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  