-- Imax Jumps to Highest Since July on Screen Growth: Toronto Mover
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-10-25T20:46:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/imax-jumps-most-since-february-on-screen-growth-toronto-mover.html
  Imax Corp. (IMX) , a maker of giant-screen
theater systems, climbed to its highest level in three months
after an expansion into foreign markets including  China  helped
deliver third-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Imax  rose  3.6 percent to C$22.40 at the close in Toronto,
the highest price since July 27. The shares have advanced 20
percent this year.  Chief Executive Officer Richard Gelfond said on a
conference call today that the company installed 14 theaters in
China in the third quarter. Imax will also install 110 to 125
theater systems globally in 2013, compared with 110 this year.  “Imax continues to be a top choice for people-
entertainment dollars in China,” Gelfond said.  Imax installed a total of 33 theaters in the quarter, and
now has 689 theaters in 52 countries.  The company is also benefitting as more directors choose to
custom shoot blockbusters in an Imax-compatible format, as Sam Mendes did with “Skyfall,” the latest installation in the
James Bond series, Gelfond said.  “We have found that movies that leverage Imax
differentiation whether they are shot with our cameras,
specially filmed for our unique aspect ratio, tend to drive
higher box office results for us as well as for our exhibitor
and studio partner,” Gelfond said.  Profit excluding some items climbed 86 percent to 26 cents
a share in the quarter, the Mississauga, Ontario-based company
said today in a statement. That beat the 20-cent average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Imax is benefitting from “strong box office performance
combined with robust screen growth,” said James Marsh, an
analyst at Piper Jaffray in  New York .  “We remain optimistic about the performance of Imax shares
ahead of the holiday season,” said Marsh, who rates Imax the
equivalent of a buy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  