-- Iowa Voters Are Independent, Not Undecided
-- B y   D e a n   B a k o p o u l o s
-- 2012-10-25T22:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/in-iowa-voters-are-independent-not-undecided.html
On the  college  campus where I write
and teach in Iowa, the trees are aflame with red and yellow
leaves and the students -- more than 90 percent of them if 2008
numbers hold strong -- are ready to vote for  Barack Obama . With
early voting, many students cast their ballots before they
headed home for fall break, to far-flung states where their
votes may not matter quite as much.  Still, at least according to the media’s incessant
 reporting , a large segment of Iowa voters are still independent
and undecided. And they’re getting a lot of attention. I’m a
registered independent, and I’ve spent my whole life in the
Midwest --  Michigan ,  Wisconsin  and now Iowa -- so I’ve gotten a
lot of calls from pollsters over the years. And every time they
ask me whom I plan to vote for in November, I always tell them
I’m undecided.  It’s always a lie.  I always know whom I’m going to vote for months before the
election, though I’ve cast votes for at least three different
parties over the years. For many Midwesterners, saying I’m
undecided is akin to saying it’s none of your darn business. In
 Iowa , it’s often hard to predict how people will vote, largely
because it’s a fairly private place (there’s plenty of elbow
room) and it’s an awfully polite place, too. We try to get along
despite our differences. Bumper stickers and yard signs go away
swiftly once an election is over.  Defying Convention  While I can sort of guess whom most of my students will
vote for based on their T-shirts and the  Howard Zinn  books
sticking out of their backpacks, I’m less certain about the
political leanings of my fellow bowlers on Wednesday nights or
my fellow worshippers on Sunday mornings. Last week, at the same
stoplight, I saw a Romney sticker on a Prius and an  Obama 
sticker on a massive Dodge pickup. Iowa defies convention.
Still, I believe these mythical swing voters will once again go
for Barack Obama in 2012. Here’s why:  -- We don’t like to change horses in midstream. Here in the
Midwest, if we hire someone to do a job, we try to stay out of
the way and let him or her finish it. It’s stoicism common among
the farmers and laborers of the region. Good work takes time.
You can’t solve a problem overnight. You plug away a little
every day.  This is, I think, a big reason  George W. Bush  won  Ohio  in
2004 and why Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  staved off a recall
attempt earlier this year. It’s simply a matter of respect.
Iowans remember, acutely, the economic collapse of 2008 and
understand a community doesn’t recover from disaster overnight.
Federal assistance and federal subsidies have helped Iowa
recover from many unforeseen disasters in the past; while we
don’t trust the government to do everything, we understand that
effective federal programs, such as Obama’s economic stimulus,
student-loan and health-care plans, can steadily help a nation
work toward recovery. If we see some progress, we are patient
people.  -- Iowa’s a “live and let live” kind of place. I recently
learned that a well-educated gay man from the East Coast, now
living in rural Iowa, whom I met at a cocktail party, is
probably voting for  Mitt Romney . Meanwhile, an insurance company
employee I met at church, a married father of three who dresses
in khakis and polos, turns out to be one of the fiercest
liberals I’ve ever met. I know a small-business owner who is
still undecided, but he’s wavering between Obama and the  Green
Party . A former student of mine in Ames, an Iraq war veteran,
will probably vote for Obama, but may very well go for the
libertarian  Gary Johnson  or write in  Ron Paul .  Few Converts  He doesn’t trust Romney on foreign policy or civil
liberties. Simply put, for those coveted independent voters,
Romney-Ryan’s hard turn to the right on social and military
issues is disconcerting. Most Iowans don’t like to put their
noses in other people’s business, whether it’s a neighboring
home or a distant nation. Divisive social issues and jingoistic
nationalism, which Republicans are pushing hard in Midwestern
swing states, may mobilize the party’s base but they do little
to create converts to conservatism.  -- Wall Street is very far away from Iowa. In the Midwest,
we don’t trust fancy. And while those on the far right have long
tried to paint Obama as the elitist in this race, in Iowa,
Romney is going to have a hard time hiding the silver spoon
that’s been in his mouth since birth.  It’s not that Iowans resent wealth; it’s more that they
resent the kind of wealth that Romney has  accrued  in his life,
most of it “unearned” income -- wealth that seems to grow
through the manipulated magic of  Wall Street  rather than the
pluck and perseverance we prefer. Wall Street’s recklessness in
the past decade has had a profoundly destructive effect on Main
Street and the fields that surround it. It’s hard for Iowans to
forget that Romney made his money in a system that exploited, in
multiple ways, the modest resources of the average American
family.  In Iowa, we tend to follow our strong opinions with a
polite disclaimer: Well, I may be wrong, you know. And I may.
Yet one thing is certain. No matter which way Iowa goes this
year, it won’t be long before the pollsters come back to us,
looking toward the 2016 caucuses, asking us whom we will support
the next time the presidency is at stake. And we’ll get
everybody excited, by letting out a low whistle, shaking our
heads and muttering, “Well, gee, I don’t know yet. I’m
undecided.”  Have a nice day.  (Dean Bakopoulos teaches at Grinnell College. His most
recent novel is  “My American Unhappiness,”  now out in
paperback. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the myriad ways  gridlock
undermines Congress ;  Jonathan Alter  on why moderate Romney
wouldn’t make it past  Inauguration Day ; Stephen L. Carter on our
 unprincipled politics ;  Jonathan Weil  on why  mandated audits
should end .  To contact the writer of this article:
Dean Bakopoulos at  bakopoul@grinnell.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 