-- India’s Rupee Drops on Speculation Importers Bought More Dollars
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-10-25T05:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/india-s-rupee-drops-on-speculation-importers-bought-more-dollars.html
India ’s rupee fell for a second day
on speculation importers boosted dollar purchases before a
public holiday tomorrow.  Signs  Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening, with data tomorrow
forecast to show German  consumer confidence  will fail to improve
in November and French household sentiment fell for a fourth
month in October, also pressured the rupee. Losses will be
limited on optimism foreign funds will buy more higher-yielding
assets after the  Federal Reserve  said yesterday it will maintain
pro-growth policies, according to Development Credit Bank Ltd.  “With today’s spot settlement scheduled for Oct. 30
because of the bank holiday tomorrow, importers will be looking
to buy the dollar for month-end payments,” said Naveen Raghuvanshi, a Mumbai-based trader at the lender. “There seems
to be no good news coming out of the euro zone.”  The rupee declined 0.1 percent from Oct. 23 to 53.7975 per
dollar as of 10:37 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Financial markets where shut yesterday for a public
holiday. One-month implied volatility, a gauge of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was unchanged at 10.25 percent.  The Fed said  interest rates  may stay near zero at least
through mid-2015 and kept unchanged a bond-purchase plan
unveiled last month. At an auction on Oct. 22, foreign investors
paid the highest fee since June for the right to buy Indian
government debt without any tenor restrictions.  Monetary Policy Review  The  Reserve Bank  of India will keep its  repurchase rate  at
8 percent on Oct. 30, according to 14 of 26 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. Ten expect a 25 basis point reduction and two
predict a half percentage point cut. The central bank will lower
lenders’  reserve requirements  to 4.25 percent from 4.50 percent,
according to 15 of the analysts, while nine see no change and
two forecast a cut to 4 percent.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards were at 54.68 per dollar,
compared with 54.69 on Oct. 23, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were at 54.59
versus 54.71 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  