-- International Air Traffic Underfunded by U.S., Study Says
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2012-10-25T13:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/international-air-traffic-growth-underfunded-by-u-s-study-says.html
The biggest U.S. international
airports provide a powerful economic engine and should receive a
greater share of government aid, a report said.  The number of international air passengers more than
doubled to 163.7 million in 2011 from 75.5 million in 1990,
according to a  report  published today by the  Brookings
Institution , a  Washington  public policy group. The increase was
more than twice the growth in domestic passengers and far
outpaced U.S. inflation-adjusted gross domestic product, the
report said.  While this growth has propelled economic activity, U.S.
policies shortchange airports in the 100 largest metropolitan
airports that accounted for 96 percent of international
passenger traffic in 2011, according to the study.  “I land in  Shanghai , I see a beautiful airport,” Adie
Tomer, an author of the study and senior research associate at
Brookings, said in an interview. U.S. gateways, such as  New
York ’s John F. Kennedy International, appear second-rate by
comparison, Tomer said.  “When are we going to invest more in our terminal
facilities for our passengers?” he said.  Since 2003, international travel grew between the U.S. and
every region in the world, the report found.  One-third of U.S. international air passengers traveled to
or from  Latin America  and the Caribbean in 2011, making it the
most popular destination. Western  Europe  followed, with 26.7
percent of passengers, according to the report.  Growth Regions  The growth rates in international travel were highest in
areas with rapidly developing economies. The  Middle East , North
Africa, developing Asia-Pacific nations, sub-Saharan Africa,
Eastern Europe and Central Asia all had passenger growth
exceeding 40 percent from 2003 through 2011, the report found.  The New York area, which includes Kennedy and Newark
Liberty International Airport in  New Jersey , had the most
international passengers, 21.6 million, it found.  Other leading metro regions include Miami, Los Angeles,  San
Francisco , Chicago and Washington, according to the report.  The rapid growth in flights to other nations benefits
businesses other than  airlines  and aircraft manufacturers, such
as Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) , according to the analysis.  International visitors, the majority of whom arrive by air,
spent $47 billion in the U.S. in 2011, a 57.7 percent increase
from 2003.  Economically Vital  “It’s these major commercial airports and the spokes on
the network that are vital economic utilities for their
metropolitan economies,” Tomer said.  The study found that U.S. policy doesn’t do enough to
support airport infrastructure where it’s needed most to foster
international travel.  The Airport Improvement Program, which is authorized to
spend $3.35 billion this year to fund airport construction and
is overseen by the  Federal Aviation Administration , is tilted
toward smaller airports that have little or no commercial
service, it found.  Airports in the 100 largest U.S. metropolitan areas
received 36 percent of AIP funding though they had 90 percent of
passengers, Tomer said. Fees on tickets generate the majority of
funds for airport grants.  Large airports are also limited in how much they can raise
from airport-specific fees on airline tickets known as passenger
facility charges.  Reality Changing  “Outdated programs must be realigned and reformed to
reflect the new and changing global economic reality,” the
Brookings report said.  An attempt to alter airport funding or taxes would collide
with positions of other aviation-industry groups.  Airlines for America, the Washington-based trade group
representing large carriers, objects to any increase in fees or
taxes on passengers,  Nicholas Calio , the group’s chief executive
officer, told a Senate committee hearing in July.  “Airports have more than adequate resources for needed
infrastructure, while airline passengers are already
overburdened with taxes that can be upwards of 20 percent of a
ticket price,”  Jean Medina , the group’s spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail.  The Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, a Frederick,
Maryland-based group that advocates for general aviation pilots,
supports continued funding at smaller airports, according to its
website.  “GA airports are economic engines for the communities they
serve,” the group said in a  report  on airport funding.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  