-- Ishihara Quits as Tokyo Governor to Form New Political Party
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-10-25T11:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/ishihara-resigns-as-tokyo-governor-to-form-new-political-party.html
Tokyo  Governor Shintaro Ishihara, an
advocate of  Japan  acquiring nuclear weapons and a longtime
critic of  China , said he will resign and form a new political
party ahead of an election that must be called by August.  Ishihara, 80, said at a press conference today in Tokyo
that he plans to run for a parliamentary seat in the elections.
He said he is interested in tying up with the minority Sunrise
Party of Japan as well as Osaka Mayor Toru Hashimoto’s new Japan
Restoration Party.  Re-elected head of Japan’s capital last year for a fourth
term, Ishihara has called for rewriting the nation’s pacifist
constitution and said last year’s record earthquake and tsunami
was “divine punishment.” His proposal in April to buy an
island chain also claimed by China forced Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda ’s government to purchase the territory, fanning a
dispute that has hurt Asia’s two biggest economies.  “Ishihara has inflicted such damage on the national
interest in the last several months,” said  Jeff Kingston , a
professor of Japanese politics at  Temple University ’s Tokyo
campus. “It’s been harmful to Japan’s economic interests and
its security interests. The bigger parties will be leery of
tying up with him.”  Sunrise Party leader Takeo Hiranuma told reporters that his
party, which has two lawmakers in the 480-seat lower house of
parliament and three in the 242-seat upper chamber, will disband
and re-form as a new group with Ishihara as its head.  Election Battle  Noda is battling to revive his  Democratic Party  of Japan’s
popularity, which has plummeted since the party took power in
2009, ousting the  Liberal Democratic Party  from half a century
of government control. The prime minister last week failed to
reach a deal with opposition leaders on legislation needed to
fund this year’s budget. The LDP is pressuring him to fulfill a
pledge to call elections “soon.”  The government last month reached a deal to purchase the
islands called Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese for
2.05 billion yen ($25.6 million). China denounced the move and
Toyota Motor Corp. and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  suffered their biggest
one-month drop in Chinese sales since at least 2008.  Ishihara is a former LDP parliamentarian whose eldest son
Nobuteru is a senior lawmaker in the party. First elected
governor in 1999, he presides over Japan’s biggest metropolis,
which has a population of more than 13 million and a $1.1
trillion economy that is the same size as South Korea’s.  Assuaging Concern  He was re-elected in April 2011, overcoming public anger
for his “divine punishment” comments. He helped assuage
concerns over radiation levels in Tokyo’s water from the
Fukushima nuclear crisis by drinking it in front of television
cameras.  In a July 2011 interview, Ishihara said “Japan should
absolutely possess nuclear weapons,” citing China and  North
Korea  as potential threats.  In a 1990 Playboy magazine interview, Ishihara denied Japan
slaughtered Chinese civilians in 1937 in Nanjing, prompting an
outcry in China, which says more than 300,000 people were
massacred. He co-wrote the 1989 best-seller, “The Japan That
Can Say No,” which argued against dependence on the U.S.  At the age of 23 Ishihara wrote a novel that won Japan’s
most prestigious literary prize. He then wrote the screenplay
for the film version. He also covered the  Vietnam War  as a
reporter, raced yachts and toured  South America  by motorcycle.  He was first elected to parliament in 1968 and served in
two different LDP Cabinets before being elected governor as an
independent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  