-- Lithuania’s Next Government Needs to Cut Deficit, Danske Says
-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 2012-10-25T11:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/lithuania-s-next-government-needs-to-cut-deficit-danske-says.html
Lithuania’s new government emerging
from this weekend’s elections will have to keep cutting the
 budget deficit  or risk higher  interest rates , said  Lars Christensen , chief emerging-markets economist at  Danske Bank
A/S. (DANSKE)   Lithuanians go to the polls on Oct. 28 to vote in a second
round of elections that may oust Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius, bringing opposition parties to power. Kubilius’s
Cabinet cut wages and raised taxes in 2009 and 2010 as output
plunged by almost a quarter, worsening the Baltic nation’s
deepest recession in those years.  Kubilius’s Cabinet approved the 2013 budget with a deficit
of 2.5 percent of gross domestic product from this year’s
planned 3 percent. The opposition parties have said they would
seek to stimulate the economy without letting the fiscal gap
exceed the European Union’s limit of 3 percent of GDP.  “No matter who wins the elections, there is no way around
the fact that fiscal consolidation will have to be continued,”
Christensen told a news conference near Vilnius,  Lithuania ’s
capital, today. “I’m quite happy that this election, no matter
the outcome, will not lead to crazy economic policies after the
elections.”  The opposition has been luring voters with pledges to boost
wages, trim sales levies and increase public spending in a
challenge to Kubilius.  “I have a lot of sympathy of the fact that a lot of people
who have really beared the brunt of this crisis are low-skilled
hard-working Lithuanians with very little income,” Christensen
said. “Shutting them out of the labor market by increasing
minimum wages dramatically is not helping anyone.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis, in Vilnius at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  