-- Lithuanian Opposition to Vie for Dominance in Election Runoffs
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2012-10-25T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/lithuanian-opposition-to-vie-for-dominance-in-election-runoffs.html
Lithuanian opposition parties will
jostle in a second round of elections to lead a new ruling
coalition that’s set to replace Prime Minister Andrius Kubilius’s austerity-focused government.  The Labor Party, which won 18 of parliament’s 141 seats in
first-round voting, will compete for 35 more in Oct. 28 runoffs.
The  Social Democrats , which have 16 seats, will run in 28, while
Order & Justice has 6 seats and will challenge for 7 more. The
three parties plan to form a coalition.  The opposition lured voters with spending pledges after
austerity devised by Kubilius’s Homeland Union-Christan
Democrats, which finished third with 13 seats in Oct. 14’s first
round, intensified the Baltic nation’s deepest  recession  in 2009
and 2010. While support for the three potential coalition
partners should propel them into power, Labor may struggle to
retain its lead, according to Oxford University’s Ainius Lasas.  The Social Democrats “are the most likely to head the
government,” Lasas, a senior research fellow focusing on media
and democracy in central and eastern  Europe , said Oct. 24 by
phone. Their positions are “quite strong” and they will
probably end up with more seats.  The yield on  Lithuania ’s dollar bond due 2022 was 3.556
percent yesterday, near the lowest since its January debut. The
cost of insuring state debt against non-payment for five years
using credit-default swaps was 137 basis points, compared with
845 points in February 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Single Mandates  The first round allocated 70 seats through party lists and
decided three single-mandate contests in which candidates won
more than 50 percent of votes. The runoffs will determine the
winners in 67 single-mandate districts, after which a Cabinet
can be formed.  Election officials ordered a rerun in the final district,
saying a Labor candidate made illegal payments to voters and
altered the outcome.  Police are investigating 18 cases of foul play during
first-round voting, police spokesman Ramunas Matonis said Oct.
24 by phone, declining to name the parties involved. Nine cases
involved Labor, four Order & Justice, two Homeland Union and one
the Social Democrats, the  Baltic News Service  reported Oct. 24,
without saying where it got the information.  ‘Artificial Provocations’  The accusations have hurt voter support for Labor,
according to party head Viktor Uspaskich, who called them
“artificial provocations” by rivals. Other parties haven’t
commented publicly about investigations of their members.  “It’s not so important to be in first or second place,”
he said Oct. 24 by phone. “In any case we’ll have to work in a
coalition government, so I don’t see much difference.”  Kubilius’s government, the first to serve a full term since
Lithuania regained independence from the  Soviet Union  22 years
ago, has been trying to avoid the fate of European leaders who
lost power in a wave of anti-austerity protests. The policies,
designed to shield nations from the euro area’s debt crisis,
instead contributed to recessions in economies from  Romania  to
 Spain .  The Cabinet cut wages and raised taxes equivalent to 12
percent of gross domestic product in 2009 and 2010 as output
plunged by almost a quarter. Plans to narrow this year’s budget
deficit to the European Union cap of 3 percent of GDP from 9.4
percent in 2009 have helped push borrowing costs to record lows.  While Lithuania’s GDP will advance 2.5 percent this year
and 3 percent in 2013, according to the  Finance Ministry , the
recession fueled  joblessness  and sparked an exodus of workers.  Living Conditions  Russian-born entrepreneur Uspaskich’s Labor Party, former
Finance Minister Algirdas Butkevicius’s Social Democrats and
impeached ex-President Rolandas Paksas’s Order & Justice are
negotiating the formation of a new coalition to “improve living
conditions for the people of Lithuania as quickly as possible,”
the parties said in a joint statement Oct. 16.  The  Labor Party  says it will raise the minimum wage to
1,509 litai ($567) a month from 850 litai and reduce the value-
added tax on basic food stuffs. The Social Democrats, who have
advocated euro adoption a year later than Kubilius’s 2014 goal,
have pledged to create jobs and adjust income-tax rates to
benefit those who earn least.  President Dalia Grybauskaite, a former EU Budget
Commissioner who must name Lithuania’s new premier after the
elections, has criticized spending pledges by some parties.  While Kubilius’s Homeland Union may improve on its first-
round showing and could end up with more votes than any other
party, it won’t be able to form a coalition because its natural
partners lack sufficient support, according to Tomas Janeliunas,
who lectures at Vilnius University’s Institute of International
Affairs and Political Science.  With the voter-fraud scandal damaging Labor’s runoff
prospects, that puts the Social Democrats in pole position, he
said Oct. 24 by phone.  There will probably be “some shifting of weight” within
the planned coalition, Janeliunas said. “It seems logical the
Social Democrats will take the role of the leader and most
likely hold the premiership.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  