-- James Bond Returns, Public Enemy, Goya: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-10-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/james-bond-returns-public-enemy-goya-london-weekend.html
Battersea Power Station comes back
to life for its annual festival of skiing, snowboarding and
music.  The two-day sporting events on artificial surfaces are
combined with shows by Mark Ronson, DJ Shadow, Zane Lowe,
Grandmaster Flash and Public Enemy.  Relentless Energy Freeze Festival, Battersea Power Station,
Kirtling St., SW8 5BN, Friday and Saturday. Information:
 http://www.relentlessfreeze.com/music  or +44-870-264-3333.  Elsewhere in  London , Jarvis Cocker does contemporary dance.  Not that you’ll catch him on pointes in the Michael Clark
Company’s “New Work 2012.” Wearing face paint, he growls into
the mike and tiptoes around nimble dancers in Day-Glo leotards.
It’s an electric segment, with standout moves from Julie
Cunningham (formerly with Merce Cunningham and no relation).  Through Saturday night at the Barbican Theatre:
 http://www.barbican.org.uk  or +44-20-7638-8891.  St. John restaurant, a 10-minute walk away, is a favorite
of chefs the world over. Desserts and bread are particularly
good. No surprise: There’s a bakery beside the bar. Information:
https://www.stjohngroup.uk.com/ or +44-20-7251-0848.  Saturday  Fewer than five drawings by Velazquez have survived in the
three and a half centuries since he died. One has just been
fished out of the British Museum’s vaults for temporary display.  The Iberian master’s study of a horse’s legs and rear
quarters is among the many gems in “Renaissance to Goya: Prints
and Drawings from Spain.” Another is the only drawing
unequivocally attributed to Zurbaran, “Head of a Monk” (1635-
55).  The show’s undisputed star is Goya, for the sheer volume
and caliber of his prints and drawings. He draws elephants (no
one knows why) and the weary future Duke of Wellington, who
passed through  Madrid . His etching of an old man laughing
demonically on a swing -- completed most probably in the last
year of his life -- seems an eerie epitaph.  Through Jan. 6, 2013. Information:
 http://www.britishmuseum.org  or +44-20-7323-8299.  Saturday Night  A shy widower named Guy reluctantly lands the lead part in
an amateur opera production.  In Alan Ayckbourn’s 1984 comedy “A Chorus of
Disapproval,” Guy’s role keeps getting bigger as the troupe,
driven crazy by a mad director, keeps getting smaller. Soon, Guy
is turning women’s heads, and getting cozy with not one, but
two.  Welsh comedian Rob Brydon plays the control-freak director.
At the Harold Pinter, 6 Panton Street, SW1Y 4DN. Information:
 http://www.atgtickets.com/venues/harold-pinter-theatre  or +44-
844-871-7615.  It’s a short walk from the theater to Arbutus, one of the
best-value restaurants in London. Chef Anthony Demetre already
has one Michelin star, and his cooking is ambitious. The pre-
theater menu is 20.95 pounds for three courses. Information:
 http://www.arbutusrestaurant.co.uk/  or +44-20-7734-4545.  Sunday  Director Sam Mendes, whose film “American Beauty”
portrayed a randy suburban dad, has turned his attention to
another male archetype: the suave, sophisticated spy.  Mendes’s first James Bond movie, “Skyfall,” opens this
weekend in the U.K. It’s partly shot in Istanbul, where 007
(Daniel Craig) goes hunting for a stolen computer disk
containing an ultra-sensitive list of NATO agents.  Information:  http://www.007.com/skyfall .  On Sunday night, rock fans can choose from two acts that
couldn’t possibly be more contrasting: the polished pop of Level
42 at the Royal Albert Hall, or the raw horror of Alice Cooper
at Wembley Arena. Information:  http://alicecooper.com/tour -
terror or  http://www.level42.com/ .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jorg von Uthmann  on Paris arts,
 Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 