-- Japan Consumer Prices Slide a Fifth Month as BOJ Set to Meet
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2012-10-26T00:50:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/japan-consumer-prices-fall-for-fifth-month-as-price-goal-elusive.html
Japan ’s consumer prices fell for a
fifth month in September amid speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will
revise down inflation forecasts next week as it struggles to end
deflation and spur growth.  Prices excluding fresh food  declined  0.1 percent from a
year earlier, the statistics bureau reported in  Tokyo  today. The
median of 27 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.2
percent drop.  Today’s data fuel political pressure on the BOJ to expand
monetary easing at a meeting on Oct. 30, as the world’s third-
biggest economy risks contracting and a stand-off in parliament
restrains fiscal measures. The government may announce limited
support steps today after Finance Minister Koriki Jojima said
last week that cabinet may authorize the use of reserve funds.  “We will probably have to wait until fiscal 2015 to see
the end of deflation,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist
at  Itochu Corp. (8001)  in Tokyo. “Japan’s economy is weakening and it
warrants further easing by the BOJ.”  Energy costs limited overall price falls, Maruyama said.  The yen traded at 80.21 per dollar at 9:03 a.m. in Tokyo
after earlier touching 80.38, the weakest since June 25. It has
lost 1.1 percent this week, poised for the biggest five-day
slide since the period ended Aug. 17.  The central bank is likely to forecast next week that it
will not achieve its 1 percent inflation goal in fiscal 2014,
according to people familiar with the matter.  Political Pressure  Some lawmakers see the central bank’s actions as
insufficient. Shinzo Abe, leader of the main opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party , has called for a 3 percent inflation target,
while Economy Minister  Seiji Maehara  is pressing for more easing
to spur growth and defeat deflation. This month he became the
first minister to attend a BOJ meeting in nearly a decade,
according to the bank.  The opposition’s refusal to approve a bill that would allow
borrowing to cover this year’s budget deficit is limiting room
for fiscal maneuver to revive an economy hit by plummeting
exports amid a territorial spat with  China . Jojima said last
week that the government will run out of money by the end of
November without the bill’s passage.  The Ministry of Finance will meet with so-called primary
dealers of the government’s debt today to discuss the delayed
passage of a deficit-financing bill and its impact on the  bond
market .  The central bank meets next week after holding off on Oct.
5 from expanding its 55-trillion yen ($686 billion) asset-
purchase fund, its main policy tool amid near-zero  interest
rates .  “The BOJ will want to avoid being seen as lacking policies
to reach its 1 percent inflation goal” if the forecast for
fiscal 2014 is lower than 1 percent, Naohiko Baba, chief
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Tokyo and former Bank
of Japan analyst, wrote Oct. 24 in an e-mailed report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  