-- Japan Protests After Chinese Vessels Enter Disputed Waters
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-10-25T09:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/japan-protests-after-four-chinese-vessels-enter-disputed-waters.html
Japan  issued a protest after four
Chinese patrol boats entered East China Sea waters near islands
at the center of a territorial dispute that has worsened ties
between Asia’s two biggest economies.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura confirmed that the
vessels entered waters administered by Japan this morning. Vice
Foreign Minister Chikao Kawai called China’s ambassador to Japan
to protest and demand that the boats leave, he said.  “It is truly regrettable that Chinese vessels make these
incursions,” Fujimura said, adding that Japan will continue to
patrol the area “vigorously.”  Kawai met Chinese diplomats met last week in  Shanghai  in an
attempt to improve ties damaged by rival claims to the islands,
called Senkaku in Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese. The spat over
the islands led to protests across  China  that strained the two
nations’ $340 billion  trade relationship .  “Chinese patrol boats conducted a routine cruise in
China’s own territorial waters to protect its sovereignty,”
Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told a briefing in Beijing
today. “It’s a normal course of business for China’s official
boats to maintain its sovereignty and exercise its
administrative rights.”  Kawai may meet Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Zhang Zhijun
next week in  Tokyo , the Mainichi newspaper said today, without
citing anyone.  Tension Flared  Tension over the islands flared in September after Japan
bought the islands from their private owner, a move that Prime
Minister Yoshihiko Noda made in part to head off a proposal by
Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara to purchase them.  Ishihara, an advocate of Japan acquiring nuclear weapons
and a longtime critic of China, announced today he will resign
and form a new political party ahead of an election that must be
called by August. Ishihara told a briefing he plans to run for a
parliamentary seat in the elections.  In a 1990 Playboy magazine interview, Ishihara denied Japan
slaughtered Chinese civilians in 1937 in Nanjing, prompting an
outcry in China, which says more than 300,000 people were
massacred.  Two Chinese men were arrested for allegedly vandalizing a
Japanese restaurant in the southern Chinese city of  Guangzhou  in
September, the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.
Xinhua reported five other people were arrested in Guangzhou
earlier this month for their roles in the protests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  