-- Japan Stock Futures Gain as Yen Falls to 4-Month Low on Stimulus
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2012-10-25T23:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/japan-stock-futures-gain-as-yen-falls-to-4-month-low-on-stimulus.html
Japanese stock futures rose after
the yen weakened to a four-month low against the dollar on
speculation the Bank of  Japan  will expand monetary stimulus next
week. Australian equities were little changed.  American Depositary Receipts of  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , a Japanese
carmaker that counts North America as its biggest market, rose
0.6 percent from the closing price in Tokyo. Aeon Co. may be
active on a report the retailer is in talks to buy Carrefour
SA’s Malaysian supermarket operations. ADRs of Canon Inc., the
world’s biggest camera maker, sank 4 percent after cutting its
profit forecast.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Australia’s top oil
producer, added 0.2 percent after crude prices snapped a five-
day decline.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 9,090 in  Chicago  yesterday, up from 9,070 in
 Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,070 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index and New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index were little changed today.  “Investors are focusing on currency movements, affecting
stock markets.” said Juichi Wako, a senior strategist at Tokyo-
based Nomura Holdings Inc. “If the yen weakens further,
Japanese stocks are likely to rise.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.1 percent
today. The gauge gained 0.3 percent yesterday in New York amid
better-than-estimated corporate earnings.  U.S. jobless claims fell last week, returning to a level
that shows the labor market is making limited progress, while
Americans signed fewer contracts than forecast in September to
purchase previously owned homes, a sign the industry’s recovery
will be uneven, report showed yesterday.  Yen Falls  Japan’s currency weakened against the dollar ahead of a
central bank policy meeting on Oct. 30. The yen depreciated to
as low as 80.38 against the dollar today in  Tokyo , the weakest
level since June 25, compared with 80.07 at the close of stock
trading yesterday. A weaker yen boosts the value of overseas
income at Japanese companies when repatriated.  “What’s behind the yen’s weakness are expectations for
monetary easing,” said Yoshitsugu Fujita, assistant vice
president of global markets in New York at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust
Bank Ltd.  Crude oil for December delivery climbed 0.4 percent to
settle at $86.05 a barrel in New York yesterday, rising for the
first time in six days.  Chinese Stocks  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S rose for a second day, led by Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. after the casino operator said it plans to
invest in and operate projects in the  Philippines .  China’s  yuan  climbed to a 19-year high and touched the
strong end of its allowed trading range for the first time,
buoyed by signs of a pickup in the world’s second-largest
economy. Forward contracts strengthened. The currency touched
6.2417 per dollar in  Shanghai , exceeding the People’s Bank of
China’s reference rate by the maximum allowed 1 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index rebounded about 12 percent
through yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as stimulus
measures in  Europe , the U.S., Japan and China boosted market
sentiment amid a global economic slowdown and Europe’s debt
crisis. The Asian benchmark traded at 13.0 times  estimated
earnings  on average, compared with 13.5 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 12.0 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Japan’s current earnings season peaks next week, with 571
of the 1,672 Topix companies reporting results.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  