-- K-V Pharmaceutical, Apple, Huawei: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-10-25T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/k-v-pharmaceutical-apple-huawei-intellectual-property.html
K-V Pharmaceutical Co. (KVPHQ) , the
drugmaker that blamed lax federal enforcement for its bankruptcy
this year,  filed  a U.S. trade complaint accusing more than 40
compounding pharmacies of infringing its property rights.  New England Compounding Pharmacy Inc., the company linked
to the fungal meningitis outbreak, was among those named in the
complaint yesterday at the U.S. International Trade Commission
in Washington. K-V claimed the companies are violating
exclusivity rules for the active ingredient in Makena, a drug
used to prevent premature births. The Bridgeton, Missouri-based
company is seeking to block imports of the medicine.  K-V has made previous attempts to protect its market share
from compounders, which are lightly regulated pharmacies that
can make versions of brand-name drugs as long as they stick to
individual prescriptions unavailable through regular avenues. A
federal judge dismissed a lawsuit from K-V in September against
the  Food and Drug Administration  after the agency refused to
block compounding pharmacies that made versions of Makena.  The FDA caused “irreparable harm,” K-V said in its
filing, by letting pharmacies sell cheaper versions of the drug,
which has the active ingredient hydroxyprogesterone caproate.  Tony Herrling, a spokesman for K-V at Brainerd
Communicators in New York, didn’t immediately respond to a phone
call seeking comment.  The practices and oversight of compounding pharmacies have
been thrust into the spotlight this year as a deadly fungal
meningitis outbreak is being linked to tainted steroid shots
traced back to New England Compounding Pharmacy, or NECC. The
Framingham, Massachusetts-based company, which suspended
operations, has been accused by state investigators of operating
on a larger scale than would normally be allowed.  K-V, whose case isn’t directly linked to the meningitis
infections, cited the outbreak in its complaint as an example of
instances where compounding copies of FDA-approved drugs could
harm public health.  The company had attempted to get the FDA to stop
compounding pharmacies from selling versions of Makena by
producing testing data of its own that called into question the
purity and potency of compounded products. The FDA conducted its
own testing and said in June that three of 26 samples failed the
standard for potency and no major safety issues were identified.  The FDA said it has discretion to enforce laws against
pharmacies to keep them from making versions of approved drugs.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency in Washington that
investigates allegations of unfair trade practices. While the
agency can’t award monetary damages like a regular court, it
does have the power to block imports of products that infringe
U.S. patents or other intellectual property rights.  Apple Loses Dutch Patent Case Against Samsung on Touch Screen  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  lost a Dutch court ruling in a patent lawsuit
over Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy handsets.  Samsung’s Galaxy products using certain versions of  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system don’t infringe Apple patents
concerning so-called multitouch flags, Judge Peter Blok said in
a ruling yesterday in The Hague, Netherlands. Apple claims
Galaxy smartphones and tablets infringe a patent for technology
that interprets finger activity on touch screens.  The ruling is the latest in a long line of disputes in
courts across the globe as rivals including  HTC Corp. (2498) , Apple and
Samsung fight for dominance in the smart phone and tablet-
computer markets. The Hague-based court said yesterday’s verdict
follows similar rulings in the U.K. and Germany on the touch-
screen patents.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, was also ordered to
pay Samsung about 325,000 euros ($420,000) in costs, the judge
said.  Steve Park , a spokesman for Apple in  Seoul , declined to
comment.  The court started a new round of trials between Apple and
Samsung in the Netherlands in September, concerning multiple
patents and proceedings as Apple seeks a ban on Galaxy devices
in the country, where the Suwon, South Korea-based company has
its distribution center for Europe. The companies compete in a
global smart phone market that grew 62 percent to $219 billion
last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Samsung Infringes Four Apple Patents, U.S. Trade Judge Says  Samsung Electronics Co. infringes four Apple Inc. patents,
including one for the design of the iPhone and one for touch-
screen technology co-invented by  Steve Jobs , a U.S. trade judge
said in a decision that gives Apple another legal victory over
its biggest smartphone competitor.  Two other patents, including one for the exterior shape of
the iPhone, weren’t infringed, U.S. International Trade
Commission Judge Thomas Pender said in a notice on the agency’s
website. The judge’s findings are subject to review by the full
commission, which has the power to stop goods that infringe U.S.
patents at the border.  The agency has twice before forced companies to alter
foreign-made smartphones if they wanted to keep selling them in
the U.S. HTC Corp. phones were held up at the border in May
after Apple won a trade case, and the Cupertino, California-
based company has an enforcement action pending that accuses HTC
of violating the trade agency’s exclusion order. Google Inc.’s
Motorola Mobility unit was ordered to remove a feature to
coordinate schedules from its phones after they were found to
infringe a Microsoft Corp. patent.  The case in yesterday’s ruling is one of more than three
dozen between the makers of about half of the world’s
smartphones, who have run up hundreds of millions of dollars in
legal bills. Samsung, which lost a $1 billion jury verdict in
August against Apple, is challenging a different ITC judge’s
findings that its own patents weren’t infringed by Apple.  The ITC, as an independent agency under the executive
branch, isn’t bound by the legal standard used in that decision.
Its job is to protect U.S. markets from unfair trade practices,
including patent infringement, and its only power lies in the
ability to keep products from entering the U.S.  Samsung has submitted documents to Pender about a way to
change its designs to address the patent dispute, though the
papers are confidential so it isn’t known what changes to its
phones are involved. Apple is seeking to block U.S. imports of
more than a dozen models of Samsung phones and tablets,
including Galaxy Tab, Galaxy Nexus, Galaxy SII, and Galaxy Note.  The Apple case against Samsung is In the Matter of
Electronic Digital Media Devices, 337-796, and Samsung’s case is
In the Matter of Electronic Devices, Including Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, and Tablet Computers, 337-794, both U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  UConn Sends Cease-and-Desist Letter Over Husky-Dog Logo Use  The  University of Connecticut  sent a cease and desist
letter to a public school saying its Husky-dog logo too closely
resembles the university’s, the San Francisco Chronicle
 reported.   Although the Morgan School of Clinton, Connecticut, has
used a Husky-dog mascot for almost 80 years, the university has
asked that it be redesigned, according to the Chronicle.  Michael Enright, a spokesman for the university’s athletic
program, said no trademark-infringement case will be filed and
the school will have some time to remove the objectionable logo
from its uniforms and other uses, the newspaper reported.  After Jack Cross, superintendent of Clinton schools, said
it could cost as much as $20,000 to remove the logo from a new
artificial turf field, Enright responded that it doesn’t need to
be changed until next time the turf is replaced, according to
the Chronicle.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  AMSC’s Copyright Case Against Sinovel to Be Heard Oct. 26  American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) , a U.S. maker of wind-turbine
components, said in a statement yesterday that its copyright
case against  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558)  will be heard Oct. 26 by
China’s Supreme People’s Court.  The case before China’s high court is Sinovel’s appeal of a
lower court’s refusal to dismiss the case. Sinovel, which was
formerly AMSC’s largest customer, is the target of four separate
cases brought by the wind-turbine company. A total of more than
$1.2 billion in damages is being sought.  In the copyright case, Denvens, Massachusetts-based AMSC is
seeking both $6 million in damages and a court order barring
further infringement of its  intellectual property .  Underlying this case is the action of Dejan Karabasevic, a
former AMSC employee who pleaded guilty in 2011 to trade secret
misappropriation. Karabasevic, a Serbian software engineer,
acknowledged that he used source code from an AMSC server to
develop a program to run Sinovel’s turbines.  In June 2011, AMSC technicians discovered the purloined
software in a Sinovel wind turbine in the Gobi desert.  AMSC, which was founded by four professors from the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology , is “eager to complete
our hearing on Oct. 26,” and is hopeful that the Chinese high
court will “demonstrate that it is protecting the interests of
all companies -- both domestic and foreign,” John Powell, AMSC
vice president and general counsel, said in his company’s
statement.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Huawei Says U.S. Concerns ‘Distorted’ as  Australia  Plans Blocked  Huawei Technologies Co., China’s largest maker of telephone
equipment, said concerns about security threats from the company
are “distorted” and offered Australian authorities access to
its code and equipment.  The company is willing to offer “complete and unrestricted
access” as part of its proposal to create a cyber-evaluation
center, according to John Lord, chairman of Huawei’s Australian
unit. All materials used in major Australian networks can be
tested at the center, he said.  “Reading many media reports, you would get the impression
that Huawei is in some sort of war with Australian security
agencies -- we are not,” Lord said, according to the e-mailed
text of a speech at the  National Press Club  in Canberra. “We
sincerely hope that in Australia, we do not allow sober debate
on  cyber security  to become distorted the way it has in the
U.S.”  U.S. lawmakers last month urged domestic companies to steer
clear of Huawei and fellow Chinese company  ZTE Corp. (000063) , citing
concerns that the Chinese government could install malicious
hardware or software in U.S. telecommunications networks. In
March, the Australian government said Huawei was banned from
bidding on a national broadband network because of “national
interests.”  The U.S. report is a “missed opportunity to develop
methods of countering” common security threats, Lord said
yesterday. “This is why we are proposing a cyber-security
evaluation center, where all equipment implemented into major or
critical Australian networks can be subjected to the same
thorough security assessment.”  Chinese companies like Huawei have been labeled as more
willing to steal intellectual property than produce it, Lord
said. In reality, Huawei was listed in the top five companies
for new patent applications by the  World Intellectual Property
Organization  and is out-pacing global rivals including Apple
Inc.,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , Microsoft Corp. and General
Electric Co., he said.  In Australia, the company is continuing to expand its
business outside of the national broadband network, he said. It
has increased staff to more than 900 from 200 three years ago,
Lord said.  “Huawei is here in Australia for the long-haul,” he said.
“Australia must reap the benefits offered by the globalized
information and communication technology industry and the
innovation pouring out of Asia and China. As we enter the Asian
Century, anything less would risk Australia being left behind.”  Ex-BSkyB Employee Leaked Company Data, U.K. High Court Rules  Customer data belonging to  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY)  was leaked to a television repair business, the U.K.’s High
Court of Justice ruled.  Judge Sir William Blackwell said that he was
“unpersuaded” by arguments that the data was transmitted
innocently to the repair business, which then went to solicit
BSkyB customers in advance of the expiration of their
warranties.  He said that the pay television provider was due damages,
and that the case should also be referred to government
authorities for possible criminal proceedings against those who
leaked the data and gave misleading statements to the court
about their actions.  The case is  Between British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc and
Digital Satellite Warranty Cover Ltd., [2012] EWHC 2642 (Ch),
England and Wales High Court ( Chancery Division ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 