-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for October (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-10-25T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-october-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Tenth District manufacturing activity declined slightly in
October, and producers’ expectations for future activity fell
considerably but remained slightly positive. Several producers
commented on growing uncertainty related to the upcoming
election and fiscal situation, which has put a hold on many
customers’ orders and spending. Price indexes were mixed, with
minimal changes overall.  The month-over-month composite index was -4 in October, down
from 2 in September and 8 in August, and the lowest in over
three years (Tables 1 & 2, Chart). The composite index is an
average of the production, new orders, employment, supplier
delivery time, and raw materials inventory indexes.
Manufacturing slowed at most durable- and nondurable goods-
producing plants, particularly among producers of machinery and
electronic equipment. Most other month-over-month indexes also
fell in October. The production index eased further from -4 to -
6, and the new orders and order backlog indexes also declined.
The employment index moved into negative territory for the first
time this year, while the shipments index inched higher but
still remained negative. The raw materials inventory index
decreased from 7 to 2, but the finished goods inventory index
was unchanged.  Most year-over-year factory indexes were stable or slightly
higher than last month. The composite year-over-year index was
unchanged at 11, while the production, shipments, and new orders
indexes improved somewhat. The order backlog index moved back
into positive territory, and the capital expenditures index
edged up from 17 to 18. The new orders for exports index rose
slightly, while the employment index eased for the second
straight month. The raw materials inventory index fell from 11
to 5, and the finished goods inventory index also decreased.  After several months of generally favorable outlooks, most
future factory indexes weakened considerably in October. The
future composite index dropped from 16 to 3, and the future
production, shipments, and order backlog indexes also decreased.
The future new orders index posted its lowest level since May of
2009, and the future employment index dropped to a three-year
low. In contrast, the future capital expenditures index
increased after falling for two straight months. The future raw
materials inventory index declined from 9 to -5, and the
finished goods inventory index also fell.  Price indexes were mixed, with little change in most indexes.
The month-over-month finished goods price index inched higher
from 5 to 8, while the raw materials price index decreased for
the first time in three months. The year-over-year raw materials
index stayed flat at 60, but the finished goods index fell from
35 to 30. The future raw materials price index rose slightly,
while the future finished goods price index edged lower,
indicating fewer firms plan to pass recent cost increases
through to customers. 