-- Kingfisher Air Plans to Resume Flights as Workers End Strike
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-10-26T10:46:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/kingfisher-air-plans-to-resume-flights-as-workers-end-strike-2-.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the cash-
strapped carrier that had its license suspended following a
strike, said it plans to resume flights in the next few weeks
after employees agreed to return to work.  “We are all together,” Kingfisher Air Chief Executive
Officer Sanjay Aggarwal told reporters in New Delhi yesterday
after reaching an agreement with employees on salary payments.
“We are going to be back in the skies very soon. Everyone from
pilots to engineers are resuming duty as we speak.”  The breakthrough in negotiations with employees, who had
previously rejected the management’s offers, may help Kingfisher
convince India’s aviation regulator to lift the license
suspension imposed last week. The carrier will still need to
raise funds to ensure that future operations aren’t disrupted,
according to Harsh Vardhan, chairman of Starair Consulting.  “This is only one of the issues they were staring at,”
said Vardhan, whose New Delhi-based company advises airlines.
“The main issue is still the Kingfisher  management ’s ability to
arrange funds to operate the airline.”  Kingfisher, controlled by liquor tycoon  Vijay Mallya , shut
down services this month after pilots and engineers walked out,
demanding seven months of unpaid salaries. The carrier will pay
three months of arrears before Nov. 13 and the remainder by
March next year, S. C. Mishra, an engineer who represented New
Delhi-based employees, said after the meeting.  Kingfisher  rose  4.6 percent to 11.35 rupees at close of
trading in Mumbai, advancing for a second day. The stock has
slumped 52 percent in the past year.  Revival Plan  The strike and flight disruptions prompted the Directorate
General of Civil Aviation to suspend the airline’s operating
license on Oct. 20 until it submits a “concrete and reliable”
revival plan. Kingfisher failed to address the issues raised by
the regulator, according to the DGCA.  Mallya’s UB Group will invest in Kingfisher to help revive
operations, an Indian government official said today, after the
airline CEO met the DGCA. The carrier must prove it has adequate
funds to pay airports, fuel suppliers and other vendors before
the license suspension can be lifted, the official, who declined
to be identified citing rules, said.  Kingfisher will soon submit a revival plan to the
regulator, CEO Aggarwal told reporters in  New Delhi . He didn’t
give a timeframe. The regulator may take about two weeks to
decide on restoring the license after the carrier presents its
plan, the government official said.  Indian Grand Prix  Kingfisher employees won’t stage protests at the venue of
the Indian Grand Prix in which  Sahara Force India  Formula One
team, part-owned by Mallya, is participating, according to
Mishra. The motor race is scheduled for this weekend.  Mallya thanked the workers through his  Twitter  Inc. social-
networking site for agreeing to end the strike. “All Kingfisher
Team members back at work and fully supportive,” he wrote.  The Kingfisher Chairman has been seeking funds for about a
year for the carrier that is struggling with 86 billion rupees
($1.6 billion) of debt and five straight years of losses. He is
also in talks to sell a stake in  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  to  Diageo
Plc. (DGE)  Since April 1, Kingfisher’s founders had infused 11.5
billion rupees in the company, Mallya said last month.  Mallya may find it “very difficult” to revive Kingfisher,
India’s aviation minister Ajit Singh said Oct. 23. The airline
has failed to pay taxes and also defaulted on lease and airport
fee payments, Singh said.  Kingfisher defaulted on loans and interest payments on
several occasions in the year ended March 31, the carrier’s
auditor said in the company’s annual report. Mallya gave
personal guarantees totaling 59 billion rupees for the carrier’s
loans.  Mallya’s  networth  shrank to $800 million this month from $1
billion in March, according to Forbes magazine. His ranking fell
to 73 among  India ’s richest from 45.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  