-- KKR Falls Short of $8 Billion Goal for Buyout Fund
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-10-26T18:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/kkr-said-to-struggle-with-8-billion-goal-for-lbo-fund.html
KKR & Co. co-founders  Henry Kravis 
and  George Roberts  are struggling to wrap up their first main
buyout fund in six years as the firm’s prior fund underperforms
and investors scale back private-equity commitments.  North America XI Fund has gathered about $700 million since
February, bringing the total to $6.2 billion, the New York-based
company said today in its quarterly earnings statement. KKR,
which began marketing the fund at the start of 2011, is seeking
$8 billion, about half the size of its 2006 pool.  The slowdown reflects a waning appetite for funds focused
on so-called megadeals, or takeovers valued at more than $5
billion, as investors become more selective. The North American
fund’s appeal has been hurt by returns on  KKR’s 2006 pool  that
are lagging behind the industry median. KKR is raising money
outside the main fund, including $4 billion for Asian
investments and $2.3 billion for an infrastructure pool.  “We’re seeing a divide in the market,” Rhonda Ryan, who
manages $1.3 billion in private-equity assets at PineBridge
Investments, said in an interview. “Those whose track record is
not stellar are struggling.”  The new KKR fund isn’t the only one facing obstacles in a
crowded market. Providence Equity Partners Inc., which is
seeking as much as $6 billion, told investors in a meeting
earlier this month that it expects to close the fund at $5
billion, according to a person who attended the meeting. Andrew Cole, a spokesman for Rhode Island-based Providence at Sard
Verbinnen & Co., declined to comment.  260 Funds  It’s taking firms an average of 13 months to raise a buyout
fund, according to Preqin Ltd., a London-based research company.
About 260 funds are seeking a combined $219 billion globally.
Investors are culling their relationships with private-equity
firms to focus on top performers, smaller funds and those that
allocate more capital to faster-growing markets.  One firm seeing success is Advent International Corp. The
company, which invests in medium-sized companies in  Europe  and
 North America , has taken less than nine months to exceed its 7
billion euro ($9.1 billion) target. The firm increased the
maximum it could raise, known as the hard cap, to 8.5 billion
euros from 8 billion euros in response to demand, a person with
knowledge of the talks said earlier this month. The Boston-based
firm is attracting money because of its record of good
performance and returning cash to investors through sales of
companies.  Advent Beats  KKR, whose 1989 takeover of  RJR Nabisco  catapulted it into
the top ranks of the leveraged-buyout industry, has a reputation
for pursuing big  corporate takeovers . Among the deals done by
the 2006 fund, which raised more than $17.6 billion, was the
acquisition of TXU Corp., later renamed Energy Future Holdings
Corp. KKR, TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs Partners acquired the
power producer in 2007 for $43.2 billion in the largest
leveraged buyout in history.  The company, whose long-term debt has soared to $42
billion, may need to restructure next year, according to Moody’s
Investors Service. Derivatives traders are pricing in a 95
percent chance of default within five years for its deregulated
unit.  The 2006 fund’s poor performance has hurt KKR’s ability to
attract money as fast as it had anticipated, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be named
because talks with investors are private. The 2006 pool had a
net annualized internal rate of return of 5.4 percent as of
March 31, according to a KKR  regulatory filing . The median
return for North American buyout funds raised that year is 7.6
percent, according to Preqin.  Advent Beats  Advent’s previous fund, raised in 2008, generated a 13
percent net annual return as of March, according to the
Washington State Investment Board, higher than the median return
for funds started that year. Fergus Wheeler, a spokesman for
Advent, declined to comment.  KKR posted third-quarter profit of $487.3 million, or 69
cents a share, driven by an increase in the value of its
investments, according to today’s statement. Economic net income
after taxes, a measure of profit excluding some costs, was a
loss of $621.7 million, or 91 cents, a year earlier. Fee-related
earnings, which include fees investors pay KKR for managing
their money and for completing deals, fell 7.7 percent to $90.7
million.  Investors such as public pension funds and endowments have
cut allocations to private equity since the financial crisis,
which froze deals and reduced the cash distributions they
received.  Allocation Constraints  “The traditional private-equity investors such as U.S.
pension funds have allocation constraints,” said Jeremie Le Febvre, founder of Singapore-based TBG Capital Advisors, which
advises firms on fundraising. “This is making fundraising more
difficult even for the most established brands, especially when
they have relied on them too heavily.”  KKR’s marketing effort gained some momentum when the Oregon
Public Employees’ Retirement Fund, one of its oldest and biggest
backers, made a commitment in January 2011. Some of the money
that KKR is managing in a separate account for Teacher
Retirement System of  Texas  was allocated to the new buyout pool.
In November 2011, Texas’s pension said it was committing up to
$3 billion to KKR’s various funds over several years. KKR and
employees also put $500 million of its own into the buyout pool.  Commitments Reduced  Still, those commitments haven’t been enough as other big
investors have pulled back from KKR and other firms. The
Washington State pension, one of the largest private-equity
investors, cut its allotment to KKR’s latest fund to $500
million from a $1.5 billion commitment to the firm’s 2006 pool.
The Oregon pension has committed $525 million to KKR’s new pool,
down from a $1.3 billion pledge for the prior fund.  The older fund ended its investment period during the third
quarter, making Fund XI the firm’s primary investment vehicle
for North American private-equity transactions, according to the
statement. KKR has until February to complete fundraising,
though it can ask investors for an extension.  The North American fund, which KKR has dubbed NAXI, ran
into competition from its second  Asia  pool, according to  Scott Nuttall , the firm’s head of global capital.  “A lot of our investors started to focus on the Asia II
fund,” he said on a conference call today to discuss earnings.
“We have a significant amount of overlap in terms of our
investor base between those two geographic areas. And I think
just given how their internal processes work, some of them
decided to work on Asia ahead of NAXI.”  Baby Steps  The firm is seeking $6 billion for the second Asian fund
and has raised two-thirds of that, KKR said in its statement.  Of the investors in NAXI, 27 percent are new to KKR,
contributing 10 percent of capital committed, he said.  “They tend to start out smaller when it’s a new
relationship, so we’re seeing that dynamic a bit,” Nuttall
said.  Larger backers have become more skeptical about the
potential for outsized returns on mega funds. Returns have been
below the industry average for funds larger than $4.5 billion
raised since 2004, according to Preqin.  Some firms, including  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , have recognized
investor appetite for smaller deals and are trying to shake the
“mega” moniker. Blackstone’s president  Tony James  told
reporters during a Oct. 18  conference call  that the firm is
avoiding large deals in its newest fund. The New York-based firm
is promising to return more money to backers before taking its
share of profits to attract investors into its private-equity
funds.  KKR Expansion  The firm is doing that “because we suspect that
fundraising will be more difficult going forward,” James said
in response to a question from  Bloomberg News . “There’s not the
mindset that prevailed in 2006 and 2007 where you can raise
money as fast as you can possibly put it out.”  In part to counteract the impact of shrinking investor
appetite and a more competitive private-equity market, KKR has
been expanding into other areas. Last year, KKR raised $1
billion to invest in growth companies in  China , and has a $6
billion pool for Europe that it created in 2008.  Marc Lipschultz, one of KKR’s most senior partners, has
been trying to build a business dedicated to energy and
infrastructure outside of the firm’s main buyout unit. Besides
the infrastructure fund, Lipschultz is also raising a pool
dedicated to energy investments.  “Large firms are multiplying their regional, sector-
focused and product-focused funds,” said Mounir Guen, head of
MVision Private Equity Advisers Ltd., which helps firms raise
money. “They are now excellent money-raising machines. They are
raising on their long standing brand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  