-- New York Policeman Charged in Plot to Kidnap, Cook Women
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-10-25T16:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/n-y-police-officer-charged-with-plot-to-kidnap-cook-women.html
A  New York  City police officer was
arrested and charged with plotting to kidnap, kill and cook more
than 100 women.  The U.S.  Federal Bureau  of Investigation said in a criminal
complaint unsealed today in federal court in  Manhattan  that last
month it learned Gilberto Valle III, 28, of Forest Hills,
Queens, was sending e-mail and instant messages from his home
computer discussing plans to “kidnap, rape, torture, kill, cook
and eat body parts of a number of women.”  The FBI searched the computer and found files with
information and photographs of at least 100 women and electronic
communications in which Valle and unidentified co-conspirators
detailed their plans, according to the complaint.  “The allegations in the complaint really need no
description from us,” Mary E. Galligan, acting assistant
director of the FBI’s New York office, said in a statement.
“They speak for themselves. It would be an understatement
merely to say Valle’s own words and actions were shocking.”  Valle is charged with one count of conspiracy to commit
kidnapping, which carries a maximum penalty of life in prison
and a $250,000 fine. He is also charged with one count of
gaining access to a computer without authorization to obtain
information from a federal department or agency, which carries a
maximum sentence of five years and a $250,000 fine.  Prosecutors said Valle went into the National Crime
Information Center database to obtain information about a
specific woman.  Valle has been suspended from the NYPD and an investigation
is continuing,  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the department, said
in a telephone interview.  Valle was arrested yesterday at his residence and is
scheduled to appear before U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry Pitman in
in Manhattan today.  The case is U.S. v. Valle, 12-mag-2820, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  