-- N.Y. Giants’ Hometown Penalized by Stadium Tax Standoff
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/n-y-giants-hometown-penalized-by-stadium-tax-standoff.html
The  National Football League ’s New
York Giants sit atop their division. Their  New Jersey  hometown
is in the fiscal cellar.  East Rutherford, a suburb of 8,900 people about 13 miles
(21 kilometers) west of  Manhattan , is struggling to assemble the
state’s tardiest budget as it battles the team over a tax bill.
Investor patience is wearing thin with the borough, which risks
a second credit downgrade this year and may have a spending plan
imposed by the state. The penalty investors demand to own some
of its bonds is almost eight times as steep as three years ago.  The town sold $12 million in short-term notes yesterday,
its third such borrowing this year. The borough is seeking to
collect $1.5 million in property taxes on the Giants’ practice
center, which the team and state say is exempt under a 1990
agreement.  “The fact that they need to use notes to pay for  cash flow 
means that there’s uncertainty about the timing or the outcome
of the future revenues,” said Daniel Solender, who helps manage
about $17 billion of municipal bonds at Lord Abbett & Co. in
 Jersey City . “Given the focus on local-government stress around
the country, it is understandable that the state wants to avoid
those kinds of issues in New Jersey.”  East Rutherford is the latest U.S. municipality hosting a
professional sports arena to find the teams’ profits don’t
always trickle down. Harrison, New Jersey, 10 miles south, lost
its investment grade status last year after the $200 million
venue for Major League Soccer’s Red Bulls failed to meet
projections.  Yield Penalty  East Rutherford  debt has trailed a rally in the $3.7
trillion municipal-bond market, where  interest rates  have set
45-year lows this year.  Borough general-obligation bonds maturing in 2019 traded on
Oct. 17 at an average yield of 3.02 percent, or 2 percentage
points more than benchmark AAA debt,  data  compiled by Bloomberg
show. When they were issued in November 2009, they priced at a
yield spread of 0.27 percentage point more than  top-rated debt .  The Giants play at MetLife Stadium, an 82,500-seat, open-
air arena in the Meadowlands complex that opened in 2010. The
$1.6 billion facility, which replaced the 34-year-old venue
across the street, was primarily built with private money.  Tax Battle  The borough insists that Timex Performance Center, the site
where the Giants practice inside the Meadowlands complex,
amounts to new, private development and should pay $750,000 a
year in real estate taxes. The team and the New Jersey Sports &
Exposition Authority, which owns the land, sued to stop the town
from collecting the money, saying the facility is covered under
a $6 million payment in lieu of property taxes the agency gives
the town each year.  The  New York Jets , which share the Stadium with the Giants,
train about 30 miles away in  Florham Park . The town collects
payments in lieu of taxes, according to the team’s lease.  East Rutherford’s proposed budget relies on a total of $4.1
million it hasn’t collected, including $2.6 million from the
sports authority for costs related to a mall project. That’s
more than 16 percent of the borough’s anticipated 2012 revenue,
Moody’s Investors Service said in an Oct. 10 report.  ‘Ridiculous’ Situation  “They’re assuming that their budget is going to be
supported by these two revenue sources, which is far from
certain,” said Eric Friedland, head of municipal-credit
research at Schroder Investment Management North America, which
oversees about $2 billion in munis. “A more prudent manager
wouldn’t assume those monies are in the bank until they are.”  Moody’s said it may cut its A2 rating, the sixth-highest,
on the borough’s general obligations, following a January
downgrade, because it has no budget. Lower ratings can raise
borrowing costs as investors demand higher yields in exchange
for what they see as more risk.  “It is kind of ridiculous that we’re in the middle of
October” and East Rutherford doesn’t have a budget, Governor
 Chris Christie  told reporters Oct. 23.  Christie’s administration gave East Rutherford until
yesterday to approve a spending plan or it may set a  tax rate .
The borough is the last municipality without a budget out of
more than 550 in New Jersey that run on a calendar year, Thomas
Neff, director of the state’s Local Government Services
division, said in an Oct. 16 letter to the mayor and council.  Field Goal  Councilman Thomas Banca said yesterday that the borough
hasn’t adopted a spending plan or scheduled any meetings to do
so. The state is reviewing budget documents turned over by the
borough,  Lisa Ryan , a spokeswoman for the state’s Community
Affairs Department, said yesterday.  “It’s a private building and just like any other
corporation or resident in the borough they are supposed to be
paying taxes,” Banca said in a telephone interview. “We can’t
just arbitrarily excuse someone from paying their taxes.”  Pat Hanlon, a spokesman for the Giants, and Wayne Hasenbalg, president and chief executive officer of the sports
authority, declined to comment on the tax issue, citing pending
litigation.  Victor Matheson, who teaches sports economics at  College of
the Holy Cross  in Worcester,  Massachusetts , said teams generally
enter into subsidy packages with host cities that cover training
facilities as well as the stadiums. Professional sports brings
“almost no significant economic benefit” to the hometowns, he
said.  “They are really designed to drive economic activity
within those walls, not to drive economic activity in the local
neighborhood,” Matheson said.  James Cassella, mayor of East Rutherford, said the town
will persist in its effort to collect taxes on the training
center, and won’t be deterred by threats of a downgrade or a
state takeover of its finances.  “We’re more worried about our taxpayers than we are about
Moody’s,” Cassella said in a telephone interview.  Following are pending sales:  UNIVERSITY OF  WASHINGTON  plans to sell $330 million in
revenue bonds as soon as Oct. 30 via auction, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will go toward capital projects
and refunding. (Added Oct. 25)  NEW JERSEY plans to sell $2.6 billion of general-obligation
tax-and revenue-anticipation notes through competitive bid as
soon as Oct. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It’s the
state’s largest short-term note deal, the data show. Proceeds
will repay a loan from Bank of America Merrill Lynch and boost
cash flow. (Updated Oct. 24)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  