-- Natural Gas Declines After Bigger-Than-Average Supply Increase
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 2012-10-25T19:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/natural-gas-drops-on-outlook-for-above-normal-storage-increase.html
Natural gas futures dropped to a
two-week low in New York after a government report showed U.S.
stockpiles climbed by more than the five-year average last week.  Gas declined 0.5 percent after the Energy Department said
inventories expanded by 67 billion cubic feet in the week ended
Oct. 19 to 3.843 trillion cubic feet. Analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg showed a gain of 67 billion. A survey of Bloomberg
users predicted an increase of 66 billion. Supplies rose to a
record 3.852 trillion cubic feet last year.  “The short story is that we’re not running out of gas,”
said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in
New York. “We’re within 9 billion cubic feet of an all-time
high storage level.”  Natural gas for November delivery fell 1.6 cents to $3.434
per million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the lowest settlement since Oct. 8. The futures have
dropped 6.1 percent from a year ago.  November $3.50 calls were the most active gas options in
electronic trading. They were 3 cents lower at 0.4 cent on
volume of 1,115 contracts as of 3:46 p.m. Calls accounted for 56
percent of options volume.  The futures have created a bearish “double top” formation
after failing to breach $3.65 per million Btu earlier this week
and last week, said Aaron Calder, senior market analyst at
Gelber & Associates in Houston. Prices may slip to $3.225 per
million Btu, he said.  Stockpile Report  The stockpile increase was bigger than the five-year
average gain for the week of 65 billion cubic feet, department
data show. A  surplus  to the five-year average fell to 7 percent
from 7.1 percent the previous week. Supplies were 4.1 percent
above year-earlier levels, down from 5 percent a week earlier.  Inventories may climb to a record 3.903 trillion cubic feet
by the end of this month, the Energy Department said Oct. 10 in
its monthly Short-Term Energy Outlook.  U.S. natural gas production in 2012 will average an all-
time high of 68.85 billion cubic feet a day, up 4 percent from
last year, the department said.  The number of rigs drilling for natural gas in the U.S.
rose by five to 427 last week, according to data released Oct.
19 by Baker Hughes Inc. in Houston. The rig count was down 47
percent this year.  Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda,  Maryland ,
predicted mostly warmer-than-normal weather on the East Coast
through Oct. 29.  The low in New York on Oct. 27 may be 56 degrees Fahrenheit
(13 Celsius), 9 above normal, according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania . The low in  Boston  may be 52
degrees, also 9 more than the usual reading.  Mild Weather  Heating demand in the Northeast may be 60 percent below
normal on Oct. 27, data from Weather Derivatives in Belton,
 Missouri , show. About 50 percent of U.S. households use gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  A lack of Pacific Ocean warming and of blocking patterns in
the Atlantic will probably mean warmer-than-normal weather in
the eastern U.S. for the next three months, said  Todd Crawford ,
chief meteorologist at Weather Services International.  Temperatures in the East may be about 2 degrees above
normal from November through January, while the Northwest cools,
according to a seasonal forecast Oct. 22 from the Andover,
Massachusetts-based company.  LNG Exports  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) , the first company to win approval to
export gas from the continental U.S., is considering a 50
percent expansion of capacity at its Sabine Pass terminal in
 Louisiana  as LNG demand rises.  “When we marketed the project at Sabine Pass, clearly we
had more demand than we could satisfy,” Nicolas Zanen, the vice
president of trading at Cheniere, said in an interview in
 Singapore  today. “It makes sense to look at expanding to a
fifth and a sixth” train for liquefying gas, he said. No
timeline for enlarging the facility has been set, he said.  The boom in oil and natural gas production helped the U.S.
cut its reliance on imported fuel. America met 83 percent of its
energy needs in the first six months of the year, department
data show. If the trend goes on through 2012, it will be the
highest level of self-sufficiency since 1991.  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
375,426 as of 3:03 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 393,000. Volume was 318,554 yesterday. Open interest was 1.19
million contracts. The three-month average is 1.12 million.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting full
volume and open interest data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Buurma in  New York  at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  