-- New York Area Has Biggest Jump in Foreclosure Filings
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-10-25T16:45:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/new-york-area-has-biggest-jump-in-foreclosure-filings.html
The  New York  metropolitan area had
the biggest jump in foreclosure filings among top U.S. markets
in the third quarter as lenders began to work through a backlog
in a region where seizing properties takes the longest.  The 69 percent gain in default, auction and repossession
filings was the steepest among the 20 largest metro areas,
according to RealtyTrac Inc. The region’s increase, propelled by
a ninefold rise in Queens County, New York, and a more than
tripling in Sussex County, New Jersey, ran counter to the
national trend. Filings declined from a year earlier in more
than three-fifths of U.S. metro areas, the  Irvine , California-
based data provider said today.  “New York will need to turn the corner to deal with the
shadow inventory being built up,”  Daren Blomquist , a RealtyTrac
vice president, said in a telephone interview, referring to a
swelling pipeline of pending foreclosures. The rising number of
properties facing seizure “remains a threat to home price
stability and growth,” he said.  While shrinking nationwide, the shadow inventory is growing
in New York, New Jersey and  Connecticut  because of state laws
that slow the process for  seizing homes . The state of New York
had the longest foreclosure process in the U.S. in the third
quarter at 1,072 days, up from 974 days a year earlier, followed
by New Jersey with a 931-day process, Blomquist said.  In the second quarter, New Jersey was behind only Florida
in the rate of homeowners with seriously delinquent loans, which
are 90 days late or in foreclosure, according to the  Mortgage
Bankers Association . The measure is a proxy for shadow supply,
according to the Washington-based group.  New Jersey  The delinquency rate in New Jersey rose to 12.7 percent in
the second quarter, the latest period for which figures are
available, from 11.4 percent a year earlier, the association
said. New York’s rate was 9.5 percent and Connecticut’s was 8.1
percent.  In the 212 U.S. metro areas with populations of 200,000 or
more, 531,576 properties received filings in the third quarter,
down 13 percent from a year earlier and 4.8 percent from the
second quarter, RealtyTrac said. With decreases in 131 of those
areas, “most of the nation’s housing markets are past the worst
of the foreclosure problem,” Blomquist said.  Twelve of the top 20 metro areas had declines from a year
earlier, led by drops of 36 percent in  San Francisco , 31 percent
in  Detroit , 29 percent in  Los Angeles , 27 percent in Phoenix and
26 percent in  San Diego , according to RealtyTrac.  Nassau County  In the New York area, meanwhile, filings in Nassau County,
on Long Island, rose 35 percent, Blomquist said. Outside of New
York, foreclosure filings advanced the most in Tampa, Florida,
with a 43 percent increase; Philadelphia and Chicago, with 34
percent gains in both cities; and  Seattle , with a 20 percent
rise, among the 20 largest U.S. metro areas.  Stockton,  California , led the 20 metro areas with the
highest rates of foreclosure filings, at one in 67 households,
more than three times the U.S. average of one in 248. While
cities in California had the seven highest foreclosure rates in
the third quarter, all had fewer filings than they did a year
earlier, RealtyTrac said.  States such as California, with shorter foreclosure
processing periods, have seen  home prices  recover faster as
distressed inventory works through the system. Residential
values in the most populous state probably will rise 11 percent
this year and 5.7 percent in 2013, the California Association of
Realtors said in an Oct. 2 forecast.  Manhattan  had the New York area’s lowest foreclosure rate
at one in 4,654 households, with Bronx County second-lowest at
one in 917, Blomquist said in the interview. The rate in Kings
County, also known as Brooklyn, was one in 892. The region’s
overall rate was one in 582, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  