-- Bundesbank Says NY Fed to Help Meet Gold Audit Request
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-10-26T11:19:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/new-york-fed-to-help-bundesbank-meet-gold-audit-requirements.html
The Bundesbank said the  Federal
Reserve  Bank of  New York  will help it meet auditing requirements
related to its  gold reserves  that were demanded by Germany’s
Audit Court.  “We have been in discussions with the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York  about the Bundesbank’s holdings of gold,” the
Bundesbank said yesterday in a letter to the German parliament’s
budget committee. “The discussions have been fruitful and the
Federal Reserve has expressed a commitment to work with the
Bundesbank to explore ways to address the audit observations,
consistent with its own security and control processes and
logistical constraints.”  The agreement is part of a compromise between the German
central bank and the Audit Court, which has called on the
Bundesbank to take stock of its gold holdings outside  Germany ,
saying it has never verified their existence.  The Bundesbank distributed the letter to reporters after
board member Carl-Ludwig Thiele and the Audit Court’s head
Dieter Engels testified to budget committee lawmakers in the
lower house of parliament in Berlin.  The Frankfurt-based central bank on Oct. 23 issued a
statement saying that “the Bundesbank and the Federal Court of
Auditors have different opinions” on the matter. The central
bank manages Germany’s gold reserves, which amounted to 3,396
tons as of Dec. 31, 2011. The gold is kept at central bank
vaults in Frankfurt, New York, Paris and  London .  ‘Very’ Reassured  The New York Fed held the largest share of reserves at the
end of 2011, or 45.2 percent with a value of 60.1 billion euros
($78 billion), according to a statement sent to the German
parliament. The Bundesbank held 30.5 percent, worth 40.5 billion
euros, in  Frankfurt .  Engels told reporters “we’ve found a compromise” on the
matter, adding he’s “very” reassured after the meeting. It
makes no sense to fight over details that are controversial even
among legal experts, he said.  “We’re in negotiations with our partner central banks to
develop auditing rights, and that’s been agreed in principle,”
said Thiele. “In parallel, we will, over the next three years,
transfer 50 tons of gold each year from New York to Frankfurt,
which is an additional way to create confidence.”  The Bundesbank is grateful that its partner central banks
were willing during the  Cold War  to guard German gold and make
sure it’s available to Germany even in times of tension, Thiele
said. The legal disagreement with the audit court has been
overcome through “practical action,” he said.  Engels said the Audit Court “had no doubts about our
American partners, at no point in time. For us it’s a question
of regularity and how we’ll proceed in the future.”  Norbert Barthle , budget spokesman for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Union bloc said he has “full trust in the
German Bundesbank and are sure that the German gold reserves are
safely stocked in the U.S., France and London.” The Union
welcomes the Bundesbank’s decision to “bring back to Germany
and examine part of the gold,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  