-- New York Times Co. Falls as Ad Slump Spurs Surprise Loss
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-10-25T20:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/new-york-times-co-falls-after-reporting-surprise-loss.html
The  New York Times Co. (NYT)  tumbled the
most in at least three decades after reporting a surprise loss
on falling advertising sales, adding to the challenges for
incoming Chief Executive Officer  Mark Thompson .  Times Co. plunged 22 percent to $8.31 in New York, the
biggest one-day drop since at least 1980. The stock, up 7.5
percent this year, led  decliners  in the  Russell 2000 Index. (RTY)   The publisher’s struggles reflect mounting challenges for
the newspaper industry as it tries to compensate for shrinking
print-ad sales with Internet revenue. Advertisers are growing
squeamish on fears the economy will worsen, which will probably
cause the print business’s slump to continue into the fourth
quarter, Times Co. said.  “We are hearing from business leaders that they are
extremely concerned,” Chief Advertising Officer Denise Warren
told analysts today on a conference call.  The loss from continuing operations was 1 cent a share,
excluding severance and other costs, the New York-based company
said today in a statement. Analysts had estimated a profit of 8
cents on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s print-ad sales for the period dropped 11
percent, and overall ad revenue declined 8.9 percent. Print
sales trends will probably be similar in the fourth quarter, the
company said.  Options Trading  “A very disappointing third quarter,” said Douglas Arthur, an analyst with  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  who has rated the
stock the equivalent of buy since August 2010. “Very weak
advertising and higher costs than expected.”  Advertising has fallen across all categories for the
newspaper industry, dropping 6.6 percent in the first six months
of this year, according to the most recently available data from
to the  Newspaper Association of America .  Bearish options wagers against the Times Co. have climbed
to the highest level ever. The ratio of outstanding puts to sell
the stock versus calls increased almost 30-fold in two days to
4.1-to-1 on Oct. 22, an all-time high, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A block of 8,500 January $10 puts changed
hands that day after 10,000 traded at the end of last week.
Those options tripled in value today, the data show.  Gannett Co. (GCI) , publisher of  USA Today , fell 5.2 percent to
$16.84 at the close in New York, the most since June 1.  Jimmy Savile  Times Co. has operated without a permanent CEO since
December. Thompson, who is scheduled to take over Nov. 12, faces
questions over how his former employer, the British Broadcasting
Corp., handled a sex scandal, marring his move to the New York
Times.  Last December, reporters for the  BBC  show “Newsnight”
prepared a broadcast featuring interviews with women saying they
had been sexually abused as children by Jimmy Savile, a popular
BBC presenter. Savile died in October 2011.  Top editors at the BBC knew of the pending report,
including BBC News Director Helen Boaden, according to people
familiar with the matter. Boaden reported to Thompson, who has
said he knew nothing of the Savile report and had no involvement
in its cancellation.  “Mark has provided a detailed account of that matter and I
am satisfied that he played no role in the cancellation of the
segment,” Chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr. said on a conference
call with analysts today after the earnings were released.  ‘Ideal Person’  Thompson “possesses high ethical standards and is the
ideal person to lead our company as we focus on growing our
businesses through digital and global expansion,” he said.  Times Co.’s net income dropped 85 percent to $2.3 million,
or 2 cents a share, compared with $15.7 million, or 10 cents, a
year earlier, the company said. Revenue was little changed at
$449 million. Analysts had projected $479.4 million. The company
had severance costs of $3 million before tax in the quarter,
which it attributed to normal departure-related expenses.  Digital ad revenue fell 2.2 percent to $44.6 million, while
subscribers to online editions of the  New York  Times and
International Herald Tribune increased 11 percent to 566,000
since the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  