-- NFL Teams May Reach $2 Billion by 2022 Due to Media, Labor Deals
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-10-25T18:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/nfl-teams-may-reach-2-billion-by-2022-due-to-media-labor-deals.html
The value of National Football
League teams may reach $2 billion within a decade due to the 10-
year labor and media deals signed by the U.S.’s most popular
sport, according to Rob Tilliss, who represents buyers and
sellers of sports franchises.  Teams that expensive may prompt the league to review its
limits on debt, Tilliss, chief executive and managing partner at
Inner Circle Sports LLC, said today at Bloomberg’s  Dealmakers
Summit  in New York.  “You’ve got 10 years of runway with the new collective
bargaining agreement” and media deals, Tilliss said. “The
universe of buyers that can afford to pay $2 billion in 10 years
for an NFL team gets pretty small.”  The  Dallas Cowboys  are worth $2.1 billion, according to
Forbes annual valuation of sports franchises. The  Cleveland
Browns  were sold on Oct. 16 for what ESPN said was more than $1
billion.  Sports teams “are not cash-flow businesses” and owners
make most of their money through increasing franchise values and
related revenue streams such as media and real estate, said
Charles Baker, a partner in DLA Piper’s Corporate and Finance
practices who handles sports transactions.  “I think if you buy at the right price, they can be very
lucrative investments, particularly if you’re looking at teams
that have ancillary assets,” he said.  John Moag, chairman and chief executive of Baltimore-based
Moag & Co., which does sports investment banking and consulting,
said the NFL remains a key driver of television ratings, while
broadcast revenue helps increase franchise values.  “It’s media, media, media,” he said. “The content of the
NFL is just so important that you have to have it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  