-- Don’t Cram Audits Down Investors’ Throats
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-10-25T22:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/nobody-should-have-audits-crammed-down-throat.html
Last month, a Senate investigative
panel put a spotlight on how the accounting firm Ernst & Young
LLP helped  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  use gimmicks and loopholes to
avoid taxes on billions of dollars of profits stashed overseas.  The program involved money transfers through the  Cayman
Islands , as well as transactions structured to make cash
distributions into the U.S. from  offshore  subsidiaries seem like
nontaxable loans. Ernst & Young isn’t just a tax consultant to
HP; it is also the computer maker’s outside auditor.  That means Ernst & Young had to opine on whether HP
accounted properly for the financial-reporting effects of Ernst
& Young’s own tax advice. This dual role -- auditor of the
books, plus adviser on how to get around the tax laws -- is
 allowed  under U.S. auditor-independence  rules , even though it
results in firms auditing their own work. That’s not the worst
part, though.  Here we have the U.S. approaching the edge of a  fiscal
cliff . More than $600 billion of federal spending cuts and tax
increases are set to take effect in January unless Congress
acts. And it isn’t just politicians who are to blame. Tax
avoidance, legal and otherwise, by large multinational
corporations is a  significant cause  of the  budget deficit .  It is a classic abusive relationship. Congress made outside
audits  mandatory  for public companies as part of the  Securities
Act of 1933 , guaranteeing accounting firms a lucrative stream of
fees. The firms have returned the favor by helping clients bleed
the government dry. The notion of “independent” audits is a
joke anyway. The client pays the audit firm for its opinion.  Last Straw  The question of whether audits should be mandatory is one I
have been chewing on for years. And for me at least, the
findings by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations,
led by Senator  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , were the last straw.  For example, here’s what one Ernst & Young tax adviser,
Margie Rollinson, wrote to colleagues on the HP account in a
September 2007  e-mail : “Documents and/or workpapers that
indicate an intention to circumvent or otherwise abuse the
spirit of section 956 could prove particularly troublesome and
thus should be avoided.” (She was referring to a section of the
 tax code .) That should dispel any notion that the Big Four
accounting firm was looking out for the public interest.  All the more reason Congress should strip the profession of
its government franchise and make outside audits voluntary for
public companies. Maybe we can’t stop audit firms from promoting
schlocky  tax shelters . But at least let’s stop subsidizing them.  Lynn Turner , who was the chief accountant of the Securities
and Exchange Commission from 1998 to 2001, has come around to
the same view. (Disclosure: I used to work for him at the
research firm  Glass, Lewis & Co. , which we both left in 2007.)
Outside auditors have a terrible track record when it comes to
detecting accounting frauds and alerting the investing public.  “I just don’t see any other viable road to go down at this
point in time,” Turner said. “We’ve tried self-regulation. We
tried the SEC as a regulator. And we’ve tried the  Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board  as a regulator. And nothing has
worked. So let’s go back to a market solution.”  Here’s what he recommends: End the audit mandate, and
require that shareholders be asked to vote on having an audit.
He suggests every three years, or sooner when a company switches
chief executive officers. If shareholders say yes, the auditor’s
appointment by the audit committee would have to go to a
shareholder vote each year. Shareholder ratification of auditors
currently isn’t mandatory.  The  accounting oversight board , which Congress created to
regulate auditors and set auditing standards, would collect fees
from companies where shareholders have voted for audits. Audit
committees would negotiate the fees and notify the oversight
board of the agreed-upon amounts. The fees would be paid from
the money collected by the oversight board, he said.  Fired, Replaced  If the auditor failed to detect a major fraud or weakness
in a company’s  internal accounting controls , the firm would be
fired and replaced. Additionally, companies would have to
provide information to shareholders -- before they vote --
showing key audit-quality indicators, such as the level of
experience and turnover among the people doing the audit.  The point is that auditors should have to demonstrate to
investors that they are worth keeping around. They also should
have incentives to flag suspect behavior by management, beyond
their boilerplate opinion letters, which rarely provide insight.  To be sure, there is hardly a groundswell for changing the
law.  Daniel Goelzer , a member of the accounting oversight board
from 2002 until last March, said large companies probably would
still hire auditors, while smaller ones, where the risk of
errors and fraud may be greatest, would be less likely to. “The
audit strikes me as so fundamental that if you want to play in
U.S.  capital markets , you ought to be required to have one,”
Goelzer said.  Robert Moritz, chairman of the Big Four accounting firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and the Washington-based  Center for
Audit Quality,  said audits should remain mandatory because
“there is an implicit value to consistency and comparability,
rather than a buyer beware system. Audited financial statements
provide the capital markets with a means to compare and contrast
with a significantly higher degree of confidence.”  Almost 80 years ago,  Arthur Carter , then president of the
 New York  State Society of Certified Public Accountants, helped
 convince  Congress that independent audits should be a legal
requirement for public companies. During Carter’s testimony on
the 1933 legislation, a senator from  Kentucky ,  Alben Barkley ,
asked: “Who audits you?” Carter  replied : “Our conscience.”  It was a bold line. Looking back, the amazing part is that
Congress bought it.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the myriad ways  gridlock
undermines Congress ;  Jonathan Alter  on why moderate Romney
wouldn’t make it past  Inauguration Day ; Stephen L. Carter on our
 unprincipled politics ; Dean Bakopoulos on the  unpredictable Iowa
voter .  Editors: James Greiff, David Henry.  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a
letter to the editor.  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  