-- Noda Credibility Cliff Widens JGB Gap to 1999 High: Japan Credit
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i ,   H i r o k o   K o m i y a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-10-25T01:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/noda-credibility-cliff-widens-jgb-gap-to-1999-high-japan-credit.html
The  bond market  is signaling concern
that Japanese lawmakers struggling to pass legislation to fund
the budget will founder in their efforts to cut the world’s
largest debt.  The  extra yield  that investors demand to hold 20-year
 government bonds  instead of 10-year securities increased to 92
basis points yesterday, the most since July 1999, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Longer bonds tend to be more
sensitive to the market’s fiscal outlook. The equivalent German
gap widened less than two basis points this month to 76.  Japan’s opposition is blocking a bill allowing the
government to borrow 38.3 trillion yen ($479 billion) for this
year’s deficit as they press Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  to
call elections. While  Standard & Poor’s  said this month that
political disputes may thwart attempts to reduce public debt,
credit assessors have stopped short of threatening to downgrade
Japan if the budget deal fails, as Moody’s Investors Service has
for the U.S. government.  “Yields on super-long term bonds probably reflect concern
that the deficit-financing bill won’t pass,” said Naomi Muguruma, a senior fixed-income strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co., one of the 25 primary dealers
obliged to bid at government debt sales. “As things stand now,
Japan is facing a credibility cliff, unlike the U.S.’s fiscal
cliff.”  Fading Popularity  Yields on 10-year notes were 0.77 percent in  Tokyo  today,
the lowest in the world after  Switzerland  and  Hong Kong . They
reached a nine-year low of 0.72 percent in July. The 20-year
rate was unchanged at 1.7 percent, after climbing 2 1/2 basis
points on Oct. 23, the fastest advance in a month on a closing
basis, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The so-called fiscal cliff in the U.S. is the spending cuts
and tax increases that will kick in automatically at the end of
the year unless Congress acts. In  Japan , Noda’s popularity sank
to a new low after he failed to persuade the opposition to back
him on the budget-funding bill. Public support for the prime
minister fell five percentage points to 18 percent, according to
an Asahi newspaper poll published Oct. 22.  The delay of the bill’s passage risks a stoppage of
government bond auctions. The legislation needs to be approved
by November for the Ministry of Finance to hold debt sales as
planned, according to  records  of the ministry’s Sept. 14 meeting
with domestic institutional investors released on its website.  Insurer Investments  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Asahi Mutual Life
Insurance Co. said it plans to boost holdings of Japanese bonds
while reducing overseas notes. The insurer will add 180 billion
yen in local debt, with the main focus on  government securities ,
during the six months through March 31, according to Takahiro
Ono, general manager of the  asset allocation  and planning unit
at Asahi Mutual.  Japan Housing Finance Agency sold 145.4 billion yen of 1.12
percent residential mortgage-backed securities, Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities said in a statement yesterday.  Japanese corporate bonds have handed investors a 1.4
percent return this year, compared with a 1.72 percent gain for
the nation’s sovereign debt, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. Company notes worldwide have returned
9.74 percent, according to the data.  The yen traded at 79.92 per dollar at 10:18 a.m. in Tokyo,
after falling to 80.01 on Oct. 23, the weakest since July 6.  The Ministry of Finance will sell 2.7 trillion yen of two-
year notes today. Last month’s auction of the securities
attracted bids valued at 11.39 times the amount on offer, more
than the average 7.21 times in the previous ten sales, according
to ministry data.  ‘Abnormal’ Situation  Leaders of the two largest opposition parties said last
week they couldn’t cooperate on the passage of the deficit-
financing bill unless Noda promises a specific election date.
Noda reached a deal with them in August to double the sales tax
rate in return for promising to call elections “soon.” Noda
isn’t legally obliged to dissolve the lower house of parliament
and call an election until August 2013.  “It’s fairly abnormal that the legislation for deficit-
financing bonds hasn’t passed yet,” said Hidenori Suezawa,
Tokyo-based chief strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.,
another primary dealer. “If Japan has to halt bond auctions for
a long period of time, it is likely to increase prospects for a
downgrade. Overseas funds may find it a selling opportunity.”  Suezawa predicts that the Ministry of Finance will suspend
debt sales starting with the 10-year auction on Dec. 4 should
the bill not pass, he wrote in a report dated Oct. 16.  Political Disputes  S&P said it doesn’t expect the political deadlock over the
bond legislation to pose immediate risks to Japan’s sovereign
credit quality.  “However, the longer that political disputes delay
implementation of additional government measures, the harder it
will be to fix Japan’s fiscal and structural problems,” S&P
said in an Oct. 15 report. “Government access to cheap funds in
such circumstances is neither infinite nor indefinite.”  The rating company, which has an AA- grade on Japan with a
negative outlook, said a week later that the nation runs the
risk of a credit downgrade if its “debt trajectory were to
remain on its current course.”  Fitch Ratings , which lowered the nation’s  credit grade  by
two levels to A+ on May 22 with a negative outlook, said Japan’s
“convoluted politics” are inhibiting policy makers’ attempts
to reduce deficits, according to a statement released last
month.  Gangster’s Wedding  In the latest blow to Noda, Keishu Tanaka stepped down as
justice minister this week after apologizing for attending a
gangster’s wedding and accepting donations from a foreign-run
company.  Japan’s  outstanding borrowings  increased 1.7 percent to
976.2 trillion yen in the three months ended June 30, government
figures show. The nation may need a record 24.6 trillion yen to
service debt in the year starting April 2013, according to
finance ministry projections.  The ratio of debt to gross domestic product will probably
rise to 250 percent in 2017 from 237 percent this year,
estimates by the  International Monetary Fund  show. The ratio is
the highest globally and compares with  Greece ’s 171 percent in
2012.  Default Risk  The surge in public borrowing has yet to spur an increase
in bond risk. Japan’s  current account , the broadest measure of
trade, has been in surplus on an annual basis since at least
1985. That’s helped the government finance deficits without
relying on foreign capital, and in turn bolstered the yen’s
status as a refuge asset.  The cost to insure the nation’s sovereign debt was 76.5
basis points yesterday, down from this year’s high of 154.1
basis points on Jan. 11, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. A gain in credit-default swaps
signals deteriorating perceptions of creditworthiness, while a
decline suggests the opposite.  Even so, the widening gap between 10-year and super-long
debt yields suggests investors are growing more concerned about
future JGB losses. Among bears on Japan’s bond market is Hayman
Capital Management LP, which thinks yields could surge toward 10
percent as the nation’s trade deficit deepens.  Money managers who invest $100 million in 20-year bonds
would lose $15 million should their yields rise 1 percentage
point, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on so-called
duration. The same degree of a yield gain would cause a loss of
$9.2 million in 10-year securities.  “I’m scared that one day the financial market will start
fully pricing in political risks,” said  Ayako Sera , a Tokyo-
based market strategist at Sumitomo Mitsui  Trust Bank Ltd. (TRBK) ,
which manages the equivalent of $163 billion. “Yields will be
much higher once that happens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  