-- Nomura Loses M&A Rank as Leaks, Finance Limits Deter Clients
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-10-26T06:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/nomura-loses-m-a-rank-as-leaks-finance-limits-dissuade-clients.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  is losing its
four-year grip on Japanese takeover advice after missing 2012’s
biggest deal, raising questions about its ability to arrange
financing for clients and the pace of its rebound from an
insider-trading scandal.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  overtook Nomura this month
after winning a role advising and managing funding for  Softbank
Corp. (9984) ’s record $20 billion bid for Sprint Nextel Corp. Mizuho
has worked on Japanese mergers and acquisitions announced this
year valued at $77 billion, while Nomura advised on deals worth
$52 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nomura’s waning M&A status is a setback for Chief Executive
Officer Koji Nagai, who took over on Aug. 1 following
revelations that employees tipped off traders about clients’
plans, prompting his predecessor to resign. It also reflects the
disadvantage  Japan ’s biggest brokerage has compared with banks
that can marry loans with mergers advice at a time when domestic
companies are spending a record amount on takeovers abroad.  “Compliance matters when clients look for an adviser,
especially on cross-border deals, as the U.S. and  Europe  are
very strict about it,” said Koji Hirai, head of M&A advisory
boutique firm Kachitas Corp. “The financial adviser’s lending
power is also becoming more crucial in the selection process.”  Softbank hired  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Raine Group LLC for its
takeover of  Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint in the largest
overseas acquisition announced by a Japanese firm in at least 12
years. Mizuho is also advising Tokyo-based Softbank on its plans
to buy domestic rival eAccess Ltd. for 180 billion yen ($2.2
billion). Nomura is absent from that transaction as well.  Lifetime Deal  Keiko Sugai, a spokeswoman for Nomura in Tokyo, declined to
comment on the company’s M&A advisory performance.  For Softbank CEO Masayoshi Son, the Sprint transaction is a
“once-in-a-lifetime deal,” said Tokyo-based Hirai, a former
M&A head at a brokerage unit of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group
Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender.  Nomura has worked for Softbank before, managing the mobile-
phone carrier’s 1994 initial public offering and additional
share sales until 2003, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “As a standard for selection, we offered the mandates to
companies that have a steady performance and track record on a
long-term basis,” Makiko Ariyama, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for
Softbank, said by phone, declining to comment on specific firms.  Underwriting Rank  Nomura also lost market share managing bond and equity
sales in the quarter ended September from the previous three
months, the data show.  Shares of Nomura fell 1.4 percent to 285 yen in Tokyo
today. They have lost 0.7 percent in the past 12 months,
compared with the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) ’s 2.1 percent gain.  The securities firm acknowledged in June that employees
leaked information on equity offerings it managed in 2010. Nagai
said on Sept. 6 that the breaches cost it mandates including the
government’s plan to sell  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  shares and a lead
role managing Japan Airlines Co.’s $8.4 billion IPO.  That may have hampered a profit recovery last quarter.
Nomura probably had net income of 5 billion yen for the three
months ended Sept. 30, compared with a loss of 46.1 billion yen
a year earlier, according to the average estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News . The Tokyo-based firm is
scheduled to report earnings on Oct. 29.  “Investment banking business fell in the second quarter
because of the insider-trading scandal related to public share
offerings,” Tatsuo Majima, an analyst at Tokai  Tokyo  Financial
Holdings Inc., wrote in a report dated Oct. 23. Nomura lost lead
management roles in October as well, so “it’s hard to say that
the impact of the scandal is fading,” he said.  Biggest Fine  The Japan Securities Dealers Association this month fined
Nomura 300 million yen, the biggest penalty it has imposed
against any firm in 12 years, saying its brokerage unit lacked
internal controls to safeguard information.  Nagai, 53, has vowed to regain public trust by implementing
improvements ordered by the Financial Services Agency. He is
also cutting $1 billion of costs and scaling back abroad, just
as Japanese companies look overseas for growth.  The bank’s global retrenchment may make it less attractive
to potential clients seeking advice on how to expand beyond
Japan, according to Yuri Yoshida, a credit analyst at  Standard &
Poor’s  in Tokyo. “Japanese financial firms have to follow their
clients by going abroad as the home market is stagnating.”  Job Cuts  Nomura is cutting as many as 30 jobs in part of its
Americas equities division, according to people briefed on the
plan in September. It is eliminating about 100 investment
banking positions in Europe as part of a 30 percent reduction in
its workforce in the region, three people with knowledge of the
plans said last month.  Companies in Japan have announced overseas acquisitions
valued at $97 billion this year, the most since Bloomberg began
compiling data in 2000, spurred by a stronger yen, an  economic
slowdown  and a shrinking  population .  Nomura ranks eighth in advising on overseas acquisitions by
Japanese companies this year, down from third for all of 2011,
the data show. Mizuho holds the top position. Globally, Nomura
is 12th, up one spot from the end of last year.  Mizuho, Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value, is set
to end the year as the country’s top takeover adviser for the
first time since 2001. The Tokyo-based bank’s revival reflects
its focus on M&A business throughout the entire organization,
said Executive Officer Shinya Hanamura.  Bearing Fruit  The corporate lending unit has been working closely with
the investment banking subsidiary “with special care placed on
compliance,” said Hanamura, 53, who heads the advisory group at
Mizuho Securities Co. “We think this is bearing fruit.”  Softbank also hired Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. and Deutsche Bank’s Tokyo branch as
the lead arrangers for financing the Sprint deal.  Founder Son, 55, may represent a new generation of Japanese
leaders. The billionaire, who became the nation’s second-richest
man with bets that included buying Vodafone Group Plc’s local
business in 2006, laid out a Darwinian vision for business in
2010, forecasting that 99.98 percent of companies would cease to
exist in their current form over the next 30 years.  Such an attitude explains why historical ties between
companies and brokerages, once important in Japan, may count for
less these days.  “Entrepreneurs like Son and newly established IT companies
aren’t necessarily sticking to those relationships,” said S&P’s
Yoshida.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  