-- Novartis Nebraska Factory Restart Delayed; OTC Sales Drop
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2012-10-25T15:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/novartis-quarterly-profit-falls-8-on-generics-dollar.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  backed off a prediction
that a U.S. factory will resume making products such as the
athlete’s foot gel Lamisil this year after shutting the facility
in January because of manufacturing flaws.  Consumer-health sales plunged 22 percent in the third
quarter, a fourth straight drop, because of lost revenue from
the Lincoln, Nebraska, site, the Basel, Switzerland-based
company said today. Novartis, Europe’s biggest drugmaker by
sales, has new woes as well --  Italy  and Switzerland yesterday
halted sales of the company’s flu vaccines because unwanted
clumps of protein were found in some doses, and  Germany  today
withdrew some lots as well.  The setbacks are overshadowing the company’s success in
introducing new patented pharmaceuticals and raising profit
margins. Novartis’s Sandoz generic-drug unit also received a
warning letter from U.S. regulators last year over manufacturing
missteps at three North American plants.  “That brings the number of divisions with manufacturing
quality issues to three out of five,” Alexandra Hauber, an
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a report today. “The
strong profitability trends are overshadowed by manufacturing
issues.” She has a neutral rating on the stock.  In April, Novartis predicted the Lincoln plant would be
back on line by mid year, and in July the company said it would
be the fourth quarter before shipments resumed. Today, Chief
Executive Officer Joe Jimenez said recovery at the site is
taking longer than expected.  Stock Drop  “What I would like to do is stop making projections
because we have proven that we’re not able to accurately
project,” Jimenez said on a conference call with reporters
today. Consumer-health sales accounted for 7.9 percent of
Novartis revenue last year.  Novartis fell 0.7 percent to close at 56.80 Swiss francs in
Zurich. The shares have returned 11 percent this year including
reinvested dividends,  compared with  a 15 percent return for the
 Bloomberg Pharmaceuticals Index (BEPHARM)  of 19 companies.  Novartis in December halted production in Lincoln, and in
January the company recalled shipments of Excedrin, NoDoz
stimulant, Bufferin pain reliever and Gas-X Prevention anti-gas
treatment. The products may have contained stray tablets,
capsules or caplets from other products, or contained broken or
chipped tablets.  Novartis hired outside companies to make three of the
products -- Lamisil, the Excedrin headache pill and the
Triaminic pain and flu medicine -- and shipments have resumed to
retailers, Jimenez said today.  ‘Credibility Issues’  The Lincoln plant accounts for about 25 percent of
Novartis’s sales of over-the-counter products. Goods from the
site are sold in the U.S., Canada and Latin America. The
division’s sales totaled $938 million in the third quarter, down
from $1.2 billion a year earlier.  “Eventually manufacturing issues like these tend to fix
themselves, and slippage happens more often than not, so this is
neither a big negative nor a great surprise, but it does raise
credibility issues,” Timothy Anderson, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., wrote in a report today. He has an outperform
rating on the stock.  Naomi Kelman, hired in February 2011 from Johnson & Johnson
to run the consumer-products unit, left Novartis in March this
year after the recall.  Other  pharmaceutical companies have struggled with product
recalls and manufacturing woes. Johnson & Johnson’s revenue was
hurt by at least 50 product recalls over two years.  Flu Vaccine  “There are investors who think that quality controls may
be taking a hit because of cost-cutting pressure,”  Martin Voegtli , a Zurich-based analyst with Kepler Capital Markets SA,
said of Novartis in a telephone interview. “J&J’s production
problems are a never-ending story, and there’s speculation that
something similar will play out here.”  Eric Althoff , a Novartis
spokesman, declined to comment on the effect of cost reductions.  Jimenez said the company can’t say when the vaccines will
be sold again in Italy and Switzerland. The shots, made in
Italy, were shipped to Europe and parts of Asia, he said. The
U.S., Novartis’s biggest vaccine market, isn’t served from
Italy, he said.  “Manufacturing vaccines is a difficult process and there
are deviations,” Jimenez said. “That is part of a normal
process of making vaccines. We are confident that efficacy and
safety is assured.”  Warning Letter  Sandoz received a warning in December from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration about plants in  Canada ,  Colorado  and
North Carolina. The Canada plant failed to report contamination
of a drug batch within the required three days, and lacked
procedures to prevent contamination. The two U.S. plants were
cited for a lack of procedures to assure drug quality. Sandoz is
on track to meet its commitments to fix the problems, Jimenez
said today.  Novartis’s third-quarter profit dropped 8 percent to $3.26
billion on competition from generic drugs and the strength of
the dollar against most major currencies. Earnings met analyst
estimates and the company reaffirmed its forecast for the year.  New drugs such as the Afinitor cancer treatment are helping
to make up for declining sales of Diovan, for blood pressure,
and Gleevec, a cancer medicine. The two drugs, the company’s
 biggest-selling products , generated revenue of $10 billion last
year and may reap just $5.4 billion by 2015 after losing patent
protection.  ‘Excellent Profitability’  “Overall a solid set of numbers and the excellent
profitability performance in pharma is offsetting growing
difficulties elsewhere,” Alistair Campbell, an analyst with
Berenberg Bank, said in an e-mailed message today.  Novartis sales fell 7 percent to $13.8 billion, missing the
average analyst forecast of $14.2 billion. The company gets
about a third of revenue from  Europe , yet reports earnings in
dollars.  Revenue in the pharmaceutical division fell 5 percent to
$7.8 billion. Diovan sales dropped 32 percent to $969 million
after it started facing competition from cheaper copycat pills
in Europe and the U.S. The Alcon eye-care division had a sales
drop of 1 percent, to $2.5 billion.  Sales of Gilenya were $316 million, up 107 percent. Revenue
from the eye treatment Lucentis advanced 15 percent to $593
million. Afinitor, approved to treat cancers of the kidney and
pancreas, climbed 75 percent to $206 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  