-- Novartis Cannibalizes Gleevec to Boost New Cancer Drug
-- B y   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2012-10-25T22:10:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/novartis-cannibalizes-gleevec-to-boost-new-cancer-drug.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  wants patients to stop
taking one of its best-selling drugs.  The Swiss company revolutionized leukemia treatment with
Gleevec, a drug that turned a deadly blood cancer into a chronic
disease more than a decade ago. Many doctors have since come to
believe that the drug, typically taken for life, may heal some
patients for good, allowing treatment to be discontinued. The
findings highlight one of the company’s biggest challenges:
Gleevec, which generated $4.7 billion last year, loses patent
protection and sales in 2014.  In a bid to head off the loss, Novartis has started a
campaign to convince patients to take a new drug called Tasigna.
The company has begun trials to show that Tasigna may permit an
even larger portion of patients to halt treatment once their
cancers are controlled.  “Novartis’s strategy is to portray Tasigna as the best
treatment on the market, so good that there will be talk about
it being a cure,”  Andrew Weiss , an analyst with Bank Vontobel
AG in Zurich, said in a telephone interview.  Novartis has every reason to push its new drug hard: It
risks losing dominance in the $6 billion market for leukemia
drugs. Gleevec accounted for the bulk of those sales last year,
followed by  Bristol Myers-Squibb Co. (BMY) ’s Sprycel, with $803
million in sales, and Tasigna, with $716 million.  Those drugs have recently been joined by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s
Bosulif, which won U.S. regulatory approval in September.  Ariad
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARIA) ’s ponatinib may be approved in the first
quarter of 2013.  Switching Drugs  The increased competition combined with the winding down of
the Gleevec patent is why it is critical for Novartis to show
that Tasigna works even better than the older drug. The plan is
to do everything possible to steer patients away from Gleevec,
which will become an inexpensive generic, and toward Tasigna.  If a series of so-called discontinuation trials show
Tasigna to be more effective than Gleevec, doctors, patients,
insurers and governments may well be drawn to Tasigna. The
company plans to discuss the trials Nov. 8, when it updates
investors on experimental drugs.  Novartis wants Tasigna to “cannibalize” Gleevec until the
older drug loses patent protection, Herve Hoppenot, who oversees
the company’s cancer drugs, said at a conference last month.
“It’s going to create a fairly large amount of the Gleevec
business that will be indirectly protected because it was
switched already to Tasigna,” he said.  Greater Potency  The company’s shares have  risen  11 percent this year
including reinvested dividends, compared with a 15 percent
return in the Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index of 19
stocks.  For patients and insurers, the drug’s efficacy shown in the
discontinuation trials may justify the newer medicine’s higher
price if it means Tasigna’s greater potency would result in a
shortened treatment.  At the moment, both Gleevec and Tasigna cost a couple of
thousand dollars a month. A generic version of Gleevec would
probably retail for a fraction of the cost, possibly even as
little as $500 for a year of therapy, Weiss said.  “If you’re reducing drug cost to nothing for them for 20
years, it would justify a higher-costing drug,” said  David
Ross , a hematologist who led an earlier Gleevec discontinuation
trial at Flinders Medical Centre in  Australia . Ross has received
funding from Novartis.  The treatments belong to a group scientists call tyrosine-
kinase inhibitors or TKIs, which interfere with cell
communication and growth, and dramatically changed the treatment
of chronic myeloid leukemia, or CML.  Independent Studies  The disease starts mainly in the white blood cells of the
bone marrow and spreads to other organs, according to the
 American Cancer Society ’s website. About 5,430 cases of the
blood cancer will be detected this year and 610 people will die
from it, according to the research and advocacy group.  Before Gleevec was introduced in 2001, patients could opt
for bone marrow transplantation, a painful and often fatal
procedure, or daily infusions with interferon. Just under a
third of those treated survived for five years. Today about 90
percent of CML sufferers taking TKI drugs will survive to reach
the five-year mark.  A definitive answer on whether Tasigna works better than
Gleevec is still years away. In addition to the Novartis trials,
several independent studies also are getting under way. A group
of European blood cancer hubs will run one such trial dubbed
 Euro-SKI . It receives no funding from pharmaceutical companies,
and will follow about 500 patients quitting their drugs.  Stopping Treatment  The study has started enrolling patients who have been
taking Gleevec, Tasigna or Sprycel for at least three years and
have little trace of the disease in their blood for a third of
this time. Results of the trial are due in 2017, according to
the trial’s lead investigator, Susanne Saussele, a hematologist
at the University of Mannheim in  Germany .  Not everyone will be able to halt treatment, Saussele said.
At the moment, doctors think about 4 in 10 patients can
discontinue therapy, and of those, 40 percent will be clear
long-term, she said. Overall, this means less than one-fifth of
those with CML may in time no longer need constant medication,
she said.  Whether that can be considered a cure is open to debate,
said  Richard Clark , a hematologist at the University of
Liverpool.  Defining Cure  “It really depends on what your definition of cure is,”
he said. “Is someone who no longer remains on treatment and
remains well cured? We can really only say someone is cured if
they get hit by a bus when they are 80.”  Doctors say the trials will help them determine which drug
lets the largest portion of patients quit their treatment for
good.  Levels of a flawed protein called Philadelphia chromosome
may be one possible indicator, said Ross, the hematologist in
Australia. Doctors currently think undetectable counts are a
strong sign that patients may achieve lasting remission.  Because Tasigna has been found to clear patients’ blood
faster and more thoroughly of the defective chromosome, it may
be possible that twice as many  patients  achieve healing that
lasts on this drug compared with Gleevec, Ross said. Some early
data hint that Tasigna may allow as many as 40 percent of
patients who stop the drug to stay treatment-free long-term, he
said.  “The key is that on more effective treatment the number of
patients who can stop might be higher,” said Ross.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  