-- NYU Dean Resigns, Simpson Thacher, Mintz: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/nyu-dean-resigns-simpson-thacher-mintz-business-of-law.html
Richard Revesz, who has been Dean of
New York University School of Law for the last 10 years, is
stepping down at the end of this academic year.  Citing the school’s entrepreneurial spirit, inclusiveness
of women and underrepresented groups, as well as its commitment
to scholarship, he said in a letter addressed to the law school
community yesterday, “I am deeply proud of all that we have
accomplished together.”  Revesz said he plans to oversee a university initiative to
create a new interdisciplinary institute on cities and the urban
environment. He will also continue to teach at the law school.  During his tenure, the law school increased the size of the
full time faculty from 83 to 110, added 19 new clinics and 12
new centers, including a new programs abroad for global law
students and created elective courses to allow greater
specialization, according to the letter. The school has also
developed its programs for students interested in government-
related careers and public interest jobs.  Revesz also said that over the past 10 years, the school
has raised $520 million, and more than doubled the size of the
NYU Law Fund in order to secure the Law School’s financial
future.  Litigation  Rajat Gupta Gets Two-Year Sentence for Insider Trading  Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta  was
sentenced to two years in prison for  insider trading , marking
the downfall of a man who rose to the top of corporate America
after being orphaned as an 18-year-old in Kolkata.  Gupta, who ran McKinsey & Co. from 1994 to 2003, was
sentenced yesterday by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in
Manhattan for leaking stock tips to Galleon Group LLC co-founder
Raj Rajaratnam. Gupta, 63, was convicted in June of securities
fraud and conspiracy. He is set to report to prison on Jan. 8.
He was also fined $5 million.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , a partner at Kramer Levin
Naftalis & Frankel LLP, wrote in a legal brief to the judge last
week, “Rajat Gupta has lived an exemplary life of uncommon
accomplishment, compassion and generosity.”  His defense lawyers had requested probation and proposed
that he work with needy children in New York or with the rural
poor fighting AIDS, malaria and extreme poverty in Rwanda. Gupta
previously served as chairman of the Global Fund, a public-
health advocacy group for the developing world.  Prosecutors had sought a prison term of as long as 10
years.  Gupta served on the boards of  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ) , won praise for his charity from  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  Chairman
 Bill Gates  and former United Nations Secretary-General  Kofi Annan  and, as McKinsey’s youngest managing director, almost
tripled firm revenue.  Gupta “was at the pinnacle of a profession built on
protecting client confidences,” prosecutors said in court
papers. “Yet, time and time again, over the span of nearly two
years, Gupta flouted the law and abused his position of trust.”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-907, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Kerviel Loses Appeal on 4.9 Billion-Euro SocGen Trading Loss  Jerome Kerviel lost his bid to reverse a 2010 guilty
verdict holding him solely responsible for  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ’s
4.9 billion-euro ($6.35 billion) trading loss.  Judge Mireille Filippini yesterday upheld the verdict
finding Kerviel guilty of abusing the bank’s trust, faking
documents and entering false data into computers. Kerviel argued
the bank knew he was exceeding his mandate and used him as a
scapegoat for losses on subprime mortgages.  The 2008 trading loss was one of the biggest ever, wiping
out almost two years of pretax profit at  Societe Generale ’s
investment-banking unit. Kerviel, 35, was called a “terrorist”
by then-Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Bouton , a comment he
refused to apologize for during Kerviel’s June appeal trial.  “It is clear that Societe Generale was a victim of these
crimes, of which  Jerome Kerviel  was the sole conceiver,”
Filippini said, upholding a three-year prison sentence and an
order for him to repay the bank. “Societe Generale is entitled
to recover the full amount of the financial harm from unwinding
this position.”  Kerviel said in an interview on  RTL  radio that he was
“distraught” over the decision and will appeal it to France’s
highest court, the Cour de Cassation.  His lawyer, David Koubbi, who appeared on the radio program
with him, said that he expects the appeal may take as long as a
year-and-a-half. By going to the Cour de Cassation, Kerviel will
remain free at least until that court rules.  “He would be crazy not to,” said Christopher Mesnooh, an
American lawyer practicing in Paris. “He doesn’t lose anything
in doing so and it’ll keep him out of jail.”  In France, the initial appeal is almost always a retrial,
with the judges hearing the case essentially from scratch. The
Cour de Cassation considers legal issues involved in the
decision. The bid for a hearing at the top appellate court is
automatically accepted, unlike in the U.S. or U.K., said
Stephane Bonifassi, a French criminal lawyer.  “Appeals in cassation have very, very little chance in
criminal matters,” Bonifassi said.  Jean Veil , a lawyer for the Paris-based bank, said Societe
Generale is realistic about the chance of Kerviel repaying 4.9
billion euros.  Kerviel’s story -- a native of Brittany, who rose through
the ranks to Societe Generale’s trading floor without having
attended any of France’s elite schools -- made him a cult hero
in the aftermath of the 2008 loss. There was a comic book, fan
clubs and t-shirts supporting his cause. A poll taken after news
of the loss broke showed 77 percent of French respondents saw
him as a “victim.”  Kerviel changed defense teams and pursued an aggressive
strategy on appeal, filing criminal complaints against the bank
in the weeks before the trial began. Societe Generale retaliated
with defamation claims and Filippini openly clashed with Koubbi
during the hearings, threatening at one point to refer him to
the bar association over his treatment of witnesses.  Prosecutors asked Filippini to increase Kerviel’s sentence
to the maximum five years, from the three years.  “Given how the hearings went, one wasn’t expecting much of
an improvement for Mr. Kerviel,” said Bonifassi. “If there was
any suspense, it was whether the punishment would be harsher.”  For more, click here.  News  Debt Collectors Face Consumer Bureau Supervision in January  Large debt collectors, including law firms, will for the
first time face supervision to assure they follow federal
consumer-protection laws beginning on Jan. 2, the U.S. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau announced yesterday.  “Millions of consumers are affected by debt collection,
and we want to make sure they are treated fairly,”  Richard Cordray , the agency’s director, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We want all companies to realize that the better business
choice is to follow the law -- not break it.”  The regulation will cover any company that has more than
$10 million in annual receipts from consumer debt collection.
That definition will capture about 175 collectors, representing
60 percent of the industry’s annual revenues, according to the
CFPB.  The new rule could erode profits at major debt collectors
including Norfolk, Virginia-based  Portfolio Recovery Associates
Inc. (PRAA) , the largest publicly held firm in the business, San Diego-
based  Encore Capital Group Inc. (ECPG)  and  Asta Funding Inc. (ASFI) , based in
Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey. It could also affect the largest
player by revenue, NCO Group, a unit of New York-based  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s private equity arm, One Equity Partners.  The accounts-receivable industry had revenues of $17
billion in 2011, according to Kaulkin Ginsberg, a Rockville,
Maryland-based consulting firm. In addition to debt collectors,
the industry includes debt buyers, who purchase written-off debt
from creditors such as credit-card issuers. Debt collectors can
be independent agents, employees of buyers or members of law
firms.  The regulation closely tracks a Feb. 17 CFPB proposal that
was opposed by the debt-collection industry because of the $10
million revenue threshold. ACA International, an association of
debt collectors, in an April 10 letter called the figure
“arbitrary and capricious, an abuse of discretion and not
otherwise in accordance with law.”  The regulation also includes partial coverage of collection
lawyers. Earlier this year, groups including the National
Association of Retail Collection Attorneys and the  American Bar
Association  criticized the agency’s initial proposal.  They said that Dodd-Frank exempts attorneys from Title X,
the section of the law creating the CFPB, on the grounds that
they are lawyers, not consumer financial services providers.  “As is clear from the legislative history of the act,
Congress took pains to exclude attorneys engaged in the practice
of law,” the bar association wrote in an April 11 letter.  The final rule covers law firms meeting the agency’s
definition of debt collectors, namely those “whose principal
business activity is debt collection” or who regularly engage
in debt collection, according to the regulation.  For more, click here.  Staples Co-Founder Ex-Wife Won’t Block Romney File Unsealing  The ex-wife of  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  co-founder and Highland Capital
Partners Chairman Tom Stemberg said she won’t block a bid to
unseal documents in her divorce, in which Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  gave information.  Gloria Allred , a women’s rights lawyer, appeared yesterday
in Norfolk Probate court in Canton, Massachusetts, with Maureen
Sullivan Stemberg and said she’s backing a Boston Globe request
to unseal the documents. Jonathan Albano, an attorney for the
Globe, described the information the newspaper sought as
“expert testimony on a financial matter.”  Stemberg, 63, spoke at the Republican national convention,
where Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, was given
the party’s nomination for the Nov. 6 presidential election.
Framingham, Massachusetts-based Staples, an office-supply
retailer, grew with the help of an investment from  Bain Capital 
LLC, the private-equity firm Romney co-founded.  “The sooner we get out from this, the better,”  Robert
Jones , an attorney for Romney with Ropes & Gray LLP, told the
court.  Stemberg is a co-founder and managing general partner of
Highland Consumer Fund, a venture capital fund based in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, that focuses on retail and consumer
service companies. It is affiliated with Highland Capital
Partners LP.  “Over the past several years, the judge in this case has
made it very clear that the gag order imposed should not be
violated,” George Regan, Stemberg’s spokesman, said in an e-
mail. “We have never violated this order and will continue to
adhere to the court’s ruling in this case.”  Stemberg’s attorney, Brian Leary, lost a bid yesterday to
have the courtroom closed during arguments over the unsealing.  The judge set a hearing for today on whether to unseal the
documents. A Staples attorney, Lisa Arrowood, asked for time to
review two volumes of Romney’s testimony dating back to the
1980s.  Allred and her client declined to answer questions after
the hearing.  Allred is a partner in Allred, Maroko & Goldberg. On its
website, the Los Angeles-based firm describes its practice areas
as employment law, discrimination, sexual harassment and civil
rights law.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Women Lawyers at Big Firms Struggle for Pay and Power  Despite the efforts of law firms to promote gender parity,
women at the 200 biggest firms in the U.S. still lag men in
power and pay, according to the seventh annual survey by the
National Association of Women Lawyers.  Women account for 15 percent of equity partners, about the
same percentage as in the first survey. Their compensation
trails behind men’s at all levels, most notably at the equity-
partner level, where women earn 89 percent of what men do, the
organization said in a statement. Women hold 20 percent of the
positions on a firm’s highest governance committee, and women
are firm-wide managing partner at 4 percent of firms. They make
up 70 percent of the nonpartner track, lower paid, staff
attorney positions, according to NAWL. That’s the only category
in which they are a majority.  Efforts to explain the pay differences were foiled by
compensation systems that lack transparency and could
incorporate unintended bias, according the text distributed with
the survey.  “The gap between male and female compensation at the
equity partner level does not correlate with male/female
differences in billable hours, total hours or books of business,
begging the question of how firms actually set compensation for
their partners,” NAWL Foundation President Stephanie Scharf, a
partner at Scharf Banks Marmor LLC in Chicago, said in a
statement.  Moreover, the survey found the pay discrepancies begin at
the associate level, where new women lawyer earn 99 percent of
what men earn and make less in bonuses. Women constitute nearly
45 percent of the associate pool, yet they receive only 40
percent of the bonuses, the report says.  If trends continue, the future looks dim, particularly
given that for the second year in a row, the proportion of women
entering big-firm practice has decreased, the report said.  Deals  Toronto-Dominion to Buy $5.9 Billion Target Card Portfolio  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP advised  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) , Canada’s second-largest bank, which agreed to buy the $5.9
billion U.S. credit card portfolio of  Target Corp. (TGT)  Skadden Arps
Slate Meagher & Flom LLP partner Andrew Faulkner represented
Target Corp. Sidley Austin represented Target in connection with
the Program Agreement addressing the operation of the program
going forward.  Simpson Thacher partners included Maripat Alpuche, Lee Meyerson, mergers and acquisitions; Stacie McGinn, financial
institutions regulatory; Laura Palmer, structured finance;
Michael Naughton, antitrust; Steve Todrys, tax; Lori Lesser,
intellectual property.  Sidley lawyers included financial institution regulation
partners William S. Eckland and David E. Teitelbaum.  The portfolio will be sold for an amount equal to the gross
value of the outstanding receivables at the time of closing,
Minneapolis-based Target said in a statement. TD also agreed to
a seven-year deal to underwrite, fund and own the retailer’s
future credit card and Visa receivables in the U.S., the
companies said.  Toronto-Dominion said the transaction will help it meet a
forecast for $1.6 billion in U.S. consumer-banking  profit  by
next year. The Toronto-based lender has more branches in the
U.S. than it does in Canada.  Target will record pretax gains of about $150 million in
the third quarter, and additional pretax gains of $350 million
to $450 million when the deal is completed, the company said.
The second-largest U.S. discount retailer suspended the sale of
the credit-card portfolio in January after it had been unable to
find a buyer for a year.  For more, click here.  In-House  Rio Tinto Unit Lawyer Barred From Leaving Mongolia on Inquiry  An Australian lawyer working for a company controlled by
 Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  has been barred from leaving Mongolia to assist
with a corruption probe by the government.  Sarah Armstrong, chief legal counsel for Vancouver-based
 SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ) , is assisting authorities with a
corruption case involving the company she works for, the
resources authority of Mongolia and the Mongolian anti-
corruption authority, according to Australia’s foreign minister,
Bob Carr.  “She hasn’t been detained, she hasn’t been arrested, her
passport hasn’t been taken from her but the authorities in Ulan
Bator are seeking to interview her further,” Carr told the
Australian Broadcasting Corporation’s 774 radio program.  SouthGobi, controlled by Rio Tinto’s 51 percent-owned unit
 Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. (TRQ) , said in a statement yesterday
it’s cooperating with Mongolian authorities and that none of its
employees have been charged with any crimes. The company said on
May 8 that Mongolia’s anti-corruption agency had asked one of
its units for information for an investigation into a third
party.  Rio Tinto, the world’s third-biggest mining group, in
January gained control of Turquoise Hill, whose name was changed
from Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. in August. The acquisition handed Rio
the stake in SouthGobi as well as control of Oyu Tolgoi, where
Rio plans to start production next year.  Wal-Mart Reorganizes Compliance Office Amid Bribery Probe  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer, hired
Jay Jorgensen, an attorney with Sidley Austin LLP in Washington,
as global chief compliance officer.  Wal-Mart also combined its compliance office with ethics,
investigations and legal functions to form one organization amid
a bribery probe at the company’s Mexico operations.  The new unit will report to the company’s general counsel,
Wal-Mart said in a memo. The moves come after Wal-Mart named
Daniel Trujillo to the new position of senior vice president and
chief compliance officer of its international operations earlier
this month.  The U.S. Justice Department and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission are investigating allegations that Wal-Mart
systematically bribed Mexican officials so it could more quickly
open stores, possibly violating the Foreign Corrupt Practices
Act.  Jorgensen previously served as a law clerk for U.S. Supreme
Court Justice William Rehnquist and for Justice Samuel Alito
while he was at the 3rd U.S. Court of Appeals, according to the
memo.  HSBC Says Preeta Bansal Joins Bank as Global Litigation Counsel  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said Preeta Bansal, who served as a
senior policy adviser to the U.S. Office of Management and
Budget, is joining the bank as global general counsel for
litigation and regulatory affairs.  Bansal will be based in London and report to  Stuart Levey ,
the company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Moves  Mintz Levin Hires Chadbourne Hedge Fund Head in New York  Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo PC  announced
that Adam Gale, the former head of Chadbourne & Parke LLP’s
hedge fund practice group, has joined the firm as a member in
the corporate and securities section in New York.  Gale has experience in the structuring, formation and
fundraising efforts of  hedge funds  and private equity funds as
well as providing regulatory and compliance advice to the funds,
their sponsors and broker-dealers, banks, and registered
investment companies. Also, he represents numerous institutional
investors in their investments into all fund types.  “As we continue to see hedge funds and other private funds
become an increasingly important element of capital markets and
financial services, we’re thrilled to welcome Adam and his
wealth of expertise in both the structuring and regulatory
compliance of these entities,” Peter Demuth, chairman of the
corporate and securities section said in a statement.  Mintz Levin has 500 lawyers in eight offices in the U.S.
and London.  Katten Muchin Hires Financial Services Partner  Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP announced that David Y.
Dickstein has joined the firm as a partner in its financial
services practice in New York. Prior to joining Katten, he was a
partner in the New York office of K&L Gates LLP, the firm said.  Dickstein focuses his work on providing counsel to hedge
funds, investment companies, investment advisers and broker-
dealers on regulatory, compliance and operational issues. He has
experience in advising businesses responding to investigations
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Katten has more than 600 attorneys in 11 offices in the
U.S. and in London and Shanghai.  Albert Pinzon Joins Edwards Wildman as a Business Law Partner  Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP hired Albert J. Pinzon, a
capital markets lawyer, as a partner in the business law
department in New York. Pinzon joins the firm from Cozen
O’Connor, where he practiced in the corporate and capital
markets group, the firm said.  Pinzon represents buyers and sellers in mergers and
acquisitions, including Latin American asset-based lending
transactions, and alternative risk transfer capital markets
transactions. He also advises clients on legal and regulatory
issues concerning life, property/casualty, and financial
guaranty insurance transactions.  Edwards Wildman has 625 lawyers in 14 offices in the U.S.,
London and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 