-- Obama Condemns Mourdock’s Remarks on Rape and Pregnancy
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-10-25T04:01:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/obama-condemns-mourdock-s-remarks-on-rape-and-pregnancy.html
President  Barack Obama  condemned
remarks by an Indiana Republican U.S. Senate candidate who
described pregnancy caused by rape as something “God
intended,” saying it illustrated the stakes in the presidential
election.  “I don’t know how these guys come up with these ideas,”
Obama said when asked on NBC’s “Tonight Show With Jay Leno”
about the remark by candidate Richard Mourdock. “Rape is rape.
It is a crime and so these various distinctions about rape,
don’t make too much sense to me, don’t make any sense to me.”  Mourdock’s statement, made during a debate two days ago
with his opponents, roiled a tight race less than two weeks
before the election and spilled over into the presidential
contest.  Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  has endorsed
Mourdock and appeared in campaign ads for him. Romney distanced
himself from the comments without withdrawing his support.
“ Governor Romney  disagrees with  Richard Mourdock ’s comments,
and they do not reflect his views,” Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul said in an e-mail.  Mourdock apologized earlier yesterday for his “less than
fully articulate use of words,” while saying he stands by his
position. At a press conference at the Indiana Republican Party
headquarters in Indianapolis, he said repeatedly that he views
life as “precious” and that he abhors violence, including
rape. He said Democrats have begun to “twist” his words.  Debate Comment  Mourdock’s remark on God’s intentions came in response to a
voter-submitted question about abortion toward the end of a
debate with Democratic U.S. Representative Joe Donnelly and
Libertarian candidate Andrew Horning.  “I’ve struggled with it myself for a long time, but I came
to realize that life is that gift from God,” Mourdock said.
“And, I think, even when life begins in that horrible situation
of rape, that it is something that God intended to happen.”  On the NBC program last night, Obama said Mourdock’s
comments highlighted the importance of the Nov. 6 election,
saying the next president may have the chance to appoint one or
more Supreme Court justices. The court’s ruling that legalized
abortion in the U.S. “is probably hanging in the balance,”
Obama said.  In a close race with Romney, Obama is counting on support
from female voters and has made explicit pitches to them in the
campaign.  Mourdock’s remarks show “exactly why you don’t want a
bunch of politicians, mostly male, making decisions about
women’s health care decisions,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Burbank, California, at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  