-- Obama’s Female Donors Narrow Finance Gender Gap: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-10-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/obama-s-female-donors-narrow-finance-gender-gap-bgov-barometer.html
President  Barack Obama  holds the
lead among women who vote with their checkbooks, even as his
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  seeks to narrow the gender gap
at the polls.  The BGOV Barometer shows that 44 percent of donations to
Obama’s main campaign fund, Obama for America, came from women,
compared with 34 percent of contributions to Romney for
President Inc., according to data compiled by Peter Brusoe, a
campaign finance analyst for Bloomberg Government.  Similar splits are evident in the Obama Victory Fund 2012
and Romney Victory Inc., the candidates’ joint funds that share
contributions with state and national party organizations. The
numbers show Obama has broken with historical patterns in which
men typically give $2 for every $1 women donate, Brusoe said.  “What’s unusual is how even Obama’s donors are,” said
Brusoe, who analyzed statistics from campaign finance records
and  Social Security Administration  data. “Usually men dominate
the giving, often two-thirds to one-third. Romney’s typical.
Obama’s unique.”  That distinction may not last long, because advocacy groups
are having more success in persuading women to contribute,
according to  Jamie Pimlott , a political scientist at Niagara
University, near Lewiston,  New York , and author of “Women and
the  Democratic Party : The Evolution of EMILY’s List.”  “We’re actually seeing the beginning of a larger trend
specifically in giving money,” said Pimlott.  EMILY’s List  Democrats currently have an edge in drawing donations from
women because of  EMILY’s List , which supports exclusively
Democrats, and the  Women’s Campaign Fund , which backs pro-choice
women candidates. Eventually “I would think we’ll see it on
both sides of the aisle,” she said.  Women supplied only 27 percent of total contributions to
individual candidates in federal elections in 2010, according to
an April  study  by the Center for Responsive Politics and She
Should Run, a Washington-based non-profit that works to increase
the number of women in public office. She Should Run is an
affiliate of the Women’s Campaign Fund.  Obama’s edge with women donors comes on top of a
substantial polling advantage he’s enjoyed with female voters.
That’s in line with a trend of women favoring Democratic
presidential candidates going back at least 30 years, according
to Rogers Smith, a political scientist at the  University of
Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia.  Abortion Issue  The gap first appeared as a reaction to the candidacy of
Republican  Ronald Reagan , who was supported by a coalition that
included religious conservatives opposed to abortion, Smith
said.  Romney has tried to appeal to women with ads that challenge
the Obama campaign’s portrayal of him as a hardliner on social
issues and by presenting him as the better candidate to address
their economic challenges.  A USA Today/Gallup poll of likely voters released Oct. 15
for 12 politically competitive states showed Romney with a four
percentage-point lead over Obama, 50 percent to 46 percent. In
that poll, Obama had a one-point advantage with women in those
12 states, compared with a nine-point lead in the rest of the
country.  That outreach to women was complicated this week when
 Richard Mourdock , the Republican candidate for Senate from
 Indiana , said in a debate that pregnancy caused by rape is
something “God intended.”  Romney has endorsed Mourdock and appeared in campaign ads
for him. The Romney campaign quickly distanced itself from
Mourdock’s comment, saying in a statement that “ Governor Romney 
disagrees with Richard Mourdock’s comments.”  In 2008, Obama beat  Arizona  Republican Senator  John McCain 
among women by 13 points, while winning the male vote by only
one point.  The Bloomberg Government donor analysis compared the first
names of Obama and Romney contributors through August 31 with
first names in a Social Security Administration database. The
Social Security office collects information on the first names
and sex of babies, enabling researchers to determine the gender
of most people with a particular name in the agency’s database.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  