-- Mobius Sees Nigerian Banking Acquisitions on Rising Competition
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y   a n d   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-10-25T08:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/mobius-sees-nigerian-banking-acquisitions-on-rising-competition.html
Nigeria’s smaller banks may be
forced to consolidate to compete with the biggest institutions,
 Mark Mobius , executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets
Group, said.  Nigerian banks have reported rising profits and loan growth
this year.  Guaranty Trust Bank Plc (GUARANTY) , the nation’s largest lender
by market value, said Oct. 18 that nine-month net income jumped
59 percent from a year earlier, as loans advanced 8 percent.
 Zenith Bank Plc (ZENITHBA) , the nation’s second-largest, said Oct. 22 that
third-quarter profit increased 51 percent, while loans rose 8
percent.  “The largest banks are moving forward at a fast pace to
strengthen their position, so smaller banks may not have any
other choice but to merge or acquire,” Mobius, who oversees
about $45 billion, said in an e-mailed reply to questions on Oct
23. “There is a possibility of further consolidation,” he
said, without identifying any banks that may combine.  The growth of the industry comes after  Central Bank of
Nigeria  Governor Lamido Sanusi fired the chief executive
officers of eight of the country’s 24 lenders in 2009 and bailed
them out with 620 billion naira ($4 billion) because loans by
banks to equity speculators and fuel importers had pushed the
industry to the verge of collapse. The government then set up
Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, or Amcon, to buy bad debts
from the country’s banks.  While five were later acquired by other banks, three were
nationalized after regulators decided they couldn’t meet banking
requirements. Amcon appointed Citigroup Inc. and  Renaissance
Capital  to value and advise on plans for the state-owned
lenders, which may involve selling the banks or listing them on
the  Nigerian Stock Exchange , the agency’s Chief Executive Office
Mustafa Chike-Obi said Aug. 7.  Bad Debts  Most banks have swung back to profit after selling their
bad debts and are set to benefit from an economy forecast by the
government to grow 6.5 percent next year, the same pace as it
expects this year.  That’s helped spur stock prices. The  Bloomberg NSE Banking
Index (NGSEB10) , which tracks Nigeria’s 10 biggest banks by market value
has advanced 60 percent this year, compared with the 31 percent
rise of the  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index. (NGSEINDX)   Templeton holds shares in Nigerian lenders including
Guaranty Trust, Zenith Bank,  Access Bank Plc (ACCESS) ,  United Bank for
Africa Plc  and  First Bank of Nigeria Plc , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are not reducing,” said Mobius. “We are long-term
holders.”  Templeton is also considering buying shares in Kenyan banks
to “get exposure to the entire Kenyan economy which we see
growing at a healthy pace,” Mobius said.  Excellent Prospects  Kenya, East Africa’s biggest economy, is forecast to grow
5.1 percent in 2012 and 5.6 percent in 2013, Investment
Secretary Esther Koimett said on Oct 23.  Equity Bank Ltd. (EQBNK) , based in the capital, Nairobi, is the
nation’s largest bank by customers and market value, while  Kenya
Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB)  is biggest by assets and outlets. Other
lenders include units owned by  Barclays Plc. (BARC) ,  Standard Chartered
Plc. (STAN) , both based in London, and Johannesburg-based Standard Bank
Group Ltd., Africa’s largest lender.  Kenyan banks are attractive to international investors
because their practices, capital adequacy and other ratios are
fundamentally good, he said.  “ Given the generally low penetration of banking services
throughout the country there are excellent prospects for
growth,” Mobius said. “We see continued growth in the next 10
years.”  Increased capital requirements in Nigeria and other African
countries are “quite positive,” he said.  Reserve Requirements  Kenya, Ghana, Gambia and Zambia increased minimum capital
requirements for foreign lenders in the past 12 months.  Nigeria 
boosted its reserve requirements for banks to 12 percent of
assets from 8 percent after its monetary policy committee
meeting on July 24.  Banks must obtain new funds to re-capitalize their foreign
units and won’t be allowed to use money already raised by their
parent companies, the Central Bank of Nigeria said in a
statement published on its website on July 26. Lenders that
can’t raise additional capital for foreign subsidiaries “in the
host market” will have to close the units, the Abuja-based
regulator said.  “We like to see capital requirement at high levels so the
bank are strong and can withstand all kinds of crises,” said
Mobius.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  