-- Occidental Profit Falls on Higher Costs, Gas Price Drop
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-10-25T20:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/occidental-profit-falls-on-higher-costs-gas-price-drop.html
Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) , the
largest onshore crude producer in the continental U.S., said
third-quarter profit fell 22 percent as a surge in output failed
to make up for higher costs and declining natural gas prices.  Net income dropped to $1.38 billion, or $1.70 a share, from
$1.77 billion, or $2.17, a year earlier, Los Angeles-based
Occidental said today in a statement. Per-share profit was 7
cents more than the average of five  analysts’ estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales fell 1 percent to $5.97 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen I. Chazen said if the
company’s stock price relative to peers doesn’t improve in the
coming months, Occidental will begin to return more cash to
shareholders “one way or another,” including possibly through
buying back shares or boosting the company’s dividend.  Chazen, who took over as CEO in May of 2011, said he is
focusing on reducing the cost of drilling programs in  California 
and Texas in order to boost the company’s profitability and
share price.  “If I don’t see real improvements in the return in the
next couple quarters, the strategy will change,” he said. “The
costs are how I intend to make the performance of the stock do
better. The tool is bringing the costs under control and
improving the profitability.”  Occidental rose 2.3 percent to $82.52 at the close in New
York. The shares, which have 18 buy ratings and six holds from
analysts, have fallen 12 percent this year.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
has risen 6 percent and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  has risen 3.6 percent.  New Prospects  Chazen plans to spend $5.5 billion this year developing new
prospects in  Texas , New Mexico and California. Production in the
Permian basin in Texas and New Mexico grew 3 percent to the
equivalent of 209,000 barrels a day compared with the second
quarter. Output in California fell about 1 percent to the
equivalent of 147,000 barrels a day, according to supplemental
data posted on the company’s website.  Occidental’s California results have been “slightly
disappointing” since the company announced in 2009 a discovery
that could hold the equivalent of as much as 500 million barrels
of crude, Matthew Portillo, an analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt &
Co. in Houston, said in a telephone interview before earnings
were released.  “The growth in California and the unconventional resource
opportunity has not yet borne fruit,” said Portillo, who rates
Occidental a buy and doesn’t own shares.  Operating Costs  Operating costs in California have doubled, and permitting
in new fields is still slower than anticipated, he said.
Occidental has reduced its rig count in the state from 30
earlier in the year to 20 and has begun to focus on conventional
drilling rather than on shale, Chazen said.  “They can still take the costs down considerably,” he
said.  Occidental’s U.S. production rose to the equivalent of
469,000 barrels a day, a record for the eighth consecutive
quarter, and total production was 766,000 barrels a day, a 4
percent jump over the July-to-September period in 2011.
Occidental was able to sell crude at a higher price. It sold
gas, which accounted for 39 percent of production last year, for
$2.48 a thousand cubic feet during the quarter, a 41 percent
decline from a year earlier.  “Even though they beat expectations, you can see the
effect that the decline in natural gas prices is having,”
 Gianna Bern , president of risk-management consultant Brookshire
Advisory & Research, Inc. in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview today. “Many natural gas producers are going to
continue to put on the brakes.”  Natural gas prices averaged $2.893 per million British
thermal units in New York during the quarter, down 29 percent
from a year earlier. The futures have recovered after reaching a
10-year low on the New York Mercantile Exchange in April.  Brent crude, the global benchmark, fell 2.4 percent to
$109.42 a barrel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston  at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  