-- Logitech Drops Most in 9 Years on Sales Forecast
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-10-25T15:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/logitech-drops-most-in-3-months-on-sales-forecast.html
Logitech International SA (LOGN)  fell the
most in more than nine years in Zurich trading after the world’s
biggest maker of computer mice forecast lower revenue and
operating profit in their second half than a year earlier.  The  shares  declined 16 percent, the steepest drop since
July 2003, to 6.92 Swiss francs, giving the company a market
value of 1.33 billion francs ($1.42 billion).  “Logitech needs growth to get back on track, but it’s not
happening yet, despite numerous new product launches,”  Michael Foeth , an analyst at  Vontobel Holding AG (VONN) , wrote in a note today.
“While the full potential of the new products will only show in
the current Christmas quarter, the outlook provided is weak.”  As tablet computers that don’t need mice erode Logitech’s
traditional business in personal computers, the company is
working to revive its range. In May, Logitech introduced a
 wireless solar keyboard  for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Mac, iPad and iPhone
and this month it announced products for Microsoft Corp.’s
Windows 8, including touch mice.  “The PC market weakened more significantly than
anticipated, in advance of the launch of Windows 8,” Chairman
Guerrino De Luca said in the statement. “Given the uncertainty
in the PC market, we are now planning for continued strong
headwinds in all of our PC-related categories for the remainder
of the fiscal year.”  Market Weakness  The company said it expects the PC market “weakness” to
more than offset the positive effect of its new products and
predicted sales and operating income for the second half of
fiscal year 2013 to be lower than a year earlier.  Second-quarter net income surged to $54.9 million in the
three months ended September from $17.4 million a year earlier,
the Morges, Switzerland-based company said in a statement today.
Excluding a $32 million benefit from a tax audit, operating
income rose 2.8 percent to $24.1 million and sales fell 7
percent to $548 million.  Analysts had predicted net income of $18.2 million on sales
of $577 million, according to the averages of  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  The company, which also produces gaming hardware, in April
said it cut a layer of management to help save $80 million a
year. Leaders of business groups and sales regions will report
directly to Bracken P. Darrell, who will succeed De Luca as
chief executive officer next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  