-- Ohio Senate Race a Magnet for TV Ads From Unknown Groups
-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 2012-10-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/ohio-senate-race-a-magnet-for-tv-ads-from-unknown-groups.html
Voters in  Ohio  listening to the
radio last week likely heard an ad accusing Democratic Senator
Sherrod Brown of joining President  Barack Obama  in waging a
“war on coal.”  “Their war on coal is also a war on jobs, family utility
bills and for far too many, a war on Ohioans’ way of life,” the
announcer says and urges people to vote against Brown and Obama.  Then, more quickly and quietly, the announcer says the ad
was “paid for by  American Commitment .”  Listeners would have no indication what American Commitment
is, and who is behind it. Brown’s campaign doesn’t know, either.  In an election-year awash in money coming from mysterious
groups such as American Commitment, Ohio has become the
epicenter of secret money and Brown the favored target. Outside
groups have spent more than $26 million against him, both
parties said. Of that, more than $20 million came from groups
that hide the identities of their donors.  It’s an emblem of what has happened in the aftermath of
court rulings that have paved the way for unions, corporations,
and wealthy individuals to spend unlimited amounts of money on
elections.  “This would not be a race if it were not for that $25
million,” Brown said in an interview. “It would not be on
anybody’s map.”  Donor Speculation  Brown says he believes the ads are coming from banks,
multinational corporations and  oil companies .  “I can’t prove any of it, but Wall Street and the oil
companies and the outsourcers and the banks don’t like me
much,” he said.  Nationally, groups that aren’t affiliated with a campaign
or party have already spent $727.7 million this election cycle,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics. Of that, groups
that don’t disclose the identities of their donors spent $212.7
million. These figures capture only expenditures that are
reported to the  Federal Election Commission , which don’t include
all television ads and voter-turnout operations.  Groups that don’t disclose their donors and worked on
behalf of Brown and other Democrats include the  League of
Conservation Voters  and MomsRising, an organization that
advocates for equal pay and other women’s issues.  Leveled Field  Outsiders working for Republicans and opposing Brown range
from behemoths such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to obscure
organizations such as the Government Integrity Fund. Their
spending has leveled the playing field for Brown’s opponent,
State Treasurer Josh Mandel.  Mandel, who has raised $14.5 million to Brown’s $20.5
million, trails the senator by 7 points in a Suffolk University
 poll . The Oct. 18-21 survey of 600 likely voters in Ohio has an
error margin of 4 percentage points.  To uncover clues that may offer a glimpse at who is behind
the outside spending requires searching through documents and
connecting the political players -- and even those efforts can
lead to dead-ends.  “A lot of these races have become arms races. It keeps
ratcheting up,” said Lee Drutman, a senior fellow at the
Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-based group that advocates for
more disclosure. “The fact that we have no way of knowing where
it’s coming from and what are the donors’ intentions is
troubling for the state of our democracy.”  On the smaller end of the spending spectrum is the
Government Integrity Fund, which has paid $1.09 million for ads
in Ohio, and American Commitment, which spent $1.08 million and
the  Coalition to Protect Patients’ Rights , which has devoted
$106,120.  IRS Rules  All three groups were created as non-profit “social
welfare” organizations. Under the Internal Revenue Service code
they are permitted to engage in some political activity so long
as the majority of its work is dedicated to advancing the public
good through education or awareness about issues. It also allows
them to keep the identities of their donors secret.  American Commitment is led by Phil Kerpen, the former vice
president of Americans for Prosperity, a group founded and
funded by billionaire brothers Charles and  David Koch , who
control the energy conglomerate Koch Industries Inc.  On his website, Kerpen describes himself as a “free-market
advocate.” He didn’t respond to e-mails or calls.  The Government Integrity Fund lists a post office box in
Columbus as its address and has no names on its website. There
is a blog by someone who goes by “Doc Willis,” although there
is no indication that name applies to the real writer.  A TV ad buy contract from the public file of Hearst
Television, posted on the investigative reporting group
ProPublica’s website, lists Tom Norris at the group’s chairman
and treasurer.  Mandel Connections  Norris is a Republican lobbyist and owner of the Columbus
firm Cap Square Solutions. One of his employees is Joel Riter,
who had been Mandel’s aide in the Ohio legislature, then worked
on his campaign for treasurer. Mandel hired him as a lobbyist in
the Treasurer’s office, where he stayed for only six months
before leaving to join Cap Square, according to an ethics
complaint filed against Mandel by Ohio Representative Matt Lundy, a Democrat.  The Government Integrity Fund spent an estimated $561,350
to run three TV ads 1,075 times from May 15 through Sept. 7,
according to New York-based Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks
advertising. Mandel’s campaign says the total spending by the
group was $1.05 million.  The Coalition to Protect Patients’ Rights is led by Dr.
Donald Palmisano, a former head of the  American Medical
Association . The group was created to fight Obama’s health-care
overhaul law.  Health Care  It got more than 10 percent of its funding in 2010 from
another organization that doesn’t disclose its donors called the
Center to Protect Patient Rights, a non-profit that contributed
more than $53 million to political groups active in the 2010
midterm elections.  While none of these groups will say who is funding their
campaigns against Brown, the ads share certain themes. Many
criticize the Democrat for being hostile to coal mines and coal-
fired power plants, while other slam his support for Obama’s
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.  The biggest spender in the race is Crossroads Grassroots
Policy Strategies, a group tied to Republican political
strategist  Karl Rove , which has invested $11.2 million in the
Ohio Senate race. The chamber follows with $7.9 million,
according to Mandel’s campaign. Neither group discloses the
sources of its funding.  Chamber Attacks  Brown “claims to be pro-business but has continuously
voted against the interests of job creators in the  U.S.
Senate ,” said  Blair Latoff , communications director at the U.S.
Chamber.  She said the chamber endorses candidates whose voting
records they deem to be 70 percent pro-business. Donors to the
chamber’s political activities can’t earmark the money for
specific candidates or causes, she said.  The chamber put out a new TV ad on Oct. 18 showing
newspaper and magazine photos of Brown during his four decades
in politics, while an announcer says, “Voted the most liberal
senator two years in a row. A record of failure.”  ‘Death Tax’  On top of that, the Club for Growth’s political action
committee said Oct. 19 it would spend $800,000 on ads against
Brown in Columbus alone. The anti-tax group’s ads criticize
Brown’s support for a “cap-and-trade  energy tax ” and “death
tax.”  Brown has also benefited some from outside spending,
although the totals are only about a fourth of what has been
spent to help Mandel.  The Majority PAC, a political action committee that seeks
to elect Democrats to the Senate and discloses its donors, has
spent $1.7 million on television on Brown’s behalf in Ohio,
according to CMAG. In total the group devoted $3.2 million to
protecting Brown’s seat, according to Mandel’s campaign.  “No amount of special interest spending on Senator Brown’s
behalf will change the fact that he voted for  Wall Street 
bailouts, a failed taxpayer funded stimulus, and a government
takeover of health care,” said Mandel spokesman Travis
Considine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgeraldk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  