-- Oil Rebounds After Five-Day Loss on U.S. Outlook, Japan
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-10-25T12:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/oil-rebounds-after-five-day-loss-on-u-s-outlook-japan-spending.html
Oil rebounded after falling for five
days in New York, the longest losing streak since May, as a U.S.
report showed demand for durable goods beat forecasts.  Futures gained as much as 1.2 percent after closing
yesterday at the lowest in more than three months. Demand for
durable goods climbed 9.9 percent last month, exceeding the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Equities
advanced in Europe and Asia as the Nikkei reported the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  may boost its asset-purchase plan. The S&P GSCI index of
24 commodities added 0.5 percent as the  Dollar Index  dropped.  “It’s a rebound, it’s the same on metals, in fact it’s
quite the union on commodity prices today,” Bjarne Schieldrop,
the Oslo-based head of commodity research at SEB AB, said today
by phone. “There has been some positive sentiment coming out of
Asia today and also there is the stronger euro versus the weaker
dollar that is driving prices up.”  West Texas Intermediate for December delivery rose as much
as $1.02 to $86.75 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . It was at $86.50 at 1:27 p.m. London
time. The contract settled at $85.73 yesterday, the lowest since
July 10.  Brent for December settlement added 91 cents to $108.76 a
barrel on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The contract
yesterday declined for a seventh day, the longest losing streak
since July 2010. The European benchmark crude was at a  premium 
of $22.26 to WTI, compared with $22.12 yesterday.  Relative Strength  Oil is rebounding in New York after yesterday’s drop sent
the relative strength index to the lowest since June 28. Crude
climbed from a nine-month low in June when the RSI slid below
30, signaling the market was oversold. Today’s reading is 34.9.  The Commerce Department may report tomorrow that U.S. gross
domestic product grew at a 1.9 percent annual pace in the three
months ended Sept. 30, up from 1.3 percent the previous quarter,
economists forecasts showed.  “I’m looking at data in the service area in particular
that could see some upside surprise to those positive
estimates,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at
CMC Markets in Sydney. “That will be a reminder to all markets,
but particularly oil markets, of the much-improved U.S. economic
situation.”  Japan Stimulus  Japan ’s central bank will consider increasing its asset-
purchase program by 10 trillion yen ($125 billion) to 90
trillion yen at an Oct. 30 policy meeting, the Nikkei newspaper
reported. The U.S. Federal Reserve yesterday said it will
maintain stimulus after last month committing to a third round
of bond purchases.  “The price is quite oversold,” said  Tetsu Emori , a
commodity fund manager at Astmax Ltd. in  Tokyo . “Everybody is
positive on the Japanese equity market today from expectations
that the Bank of Japan may ease policies.”  Calgary-based  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  is resuming operations at the
Buzzard field in the  North Sea  after maintenance took longer
than forecast, according to a statement.  Repairs on  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Pernis oil refinery in
the Netherlands, which is Europe’s largest, will be completed in
the first half of November, the company said today in a
statement on its website. The refinery had major maintenance
over the last month, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  