-- Olympic Hurdler Lolo Jones Makes U.S. Women’s Bobsled Team
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-25T15:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/olympic-hurdler-lolo-jones-makes-u-s-women-s-bobsled-team.html
Olympic hurdler Lolo Jones was named
to the  U.S. women’s bobsled team , putting her in contention for
the 2014  Winter Games  in Sochi,  Russia .  Jones, 30, started bobsled training last month. She follows
former U.S. Olympic track athletes such as Edwin Moses, Willie Gault and Willie Davenport and football player Herschel Walker,
who also switched sports and used their speed to push start the
sled on the icy track.  Jones is joined as one of six push athletes on the U.S.
team by sprinter Tianna Madison, who was part of the world
record-setting U.S. team that won a gold medal in the women’s
400-meter relay in London. The U.S. selection trials started
last week in Lake Placid, New York.  “They are just tenacious competitors that want to win at
everything they do,” U.S. bobsled coach Todd Hays said of Jones
and Madison in an e-mailed statement. “It wouldn’t matter if it
was Ping-Pong, checkers or bobsled, they still want to be the
best.”  Jones failed to medal in the 100-meter hurdles at the last
two Olympics, tripping on the next-to-last hurdle while in the
lead at the 2008 Beijing Games and finishing fourth in the final
this year in  London .  She was criticized on television by U.S. teammates Dawn
Harper and Kellie Wells, who won the silver and bronze medals in
London and said they were frustrated Jones received more media
coverage, endorsements and attention off the track than they
did. Jones was on the cover of Time magazine before the London
Games, appeared on television talk shows, and spoke openly about
being a virgin, seeking redemption from 2008 and having been so
poor that she lived in a Salvation Army basement as a youth.  Jones, Madison and the other four women’s push athletes
will be competing for three spots during the World Cup season.  “We will have a strategy to rotate athletes in the sleds
throughout the season based on what track we’re on and how they
fit with particular drivers,” Hays said. “The good news is
that we also have three drivers that will be fighting for the
gold medal at each stop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  