-- On Immigration, Don’t Hold Economy Hostage to Politics
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-25T17:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/on-immigration-don-t-hold-economy-hostage-to-politics.html
The third presidential debate,
concerned mainly with foreign policy, was frustrating for many
commentators because it gave them little to chew on. What’s to
debate when there’s so much agreement -- or the semblance of it,
at least?  Our frustration is quite the opposite: There is genuine
agreement between Democrats and Republicans on some issues and
yet that consensus fails to drive action. We see this playing
out especially on immigration.  The larger immigration picture certainly remains
contentious, and unavoidably so. How to deal with 12 million
illegal immigrants, most of them productive and law-abiding
members of society? How to make the border more secure, and how
much weight to give that imperfectly attainable goal?  Yet in one important area -- the treatment of highly
skilled workers -- a strong consensus exists that a more liberal
policy is crucial for U.S. economic prospects. President  Barack Obama  and Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  agree. Almost
everyone who has given the matter a moment of  intelligent
thought  agrees. Yet nothing happens.  Human Capital  It would be hard to exaggerate the lunacy of the U.S.’s
rules on skilled immigrants. We know of no other  advanced
economy  that skews its policies so severely against the workers
in greatest demand. Most countries see themselves as competing
to attract that kind of immigrant, recognizing that human
capital is an important driver of economic success.  The U.S. has more to worry about than most. Its schools are
underperforming and its students have lost ground in comparison
with other countries. The educational quality of the U.S. labor
force, after decades of rapid improvement, has begun to
stagnate.  Serious efforts to improve schools and develop a better-
trained labor force are under way -- we commend them
wholeheartedly -- but it could be many years before we know the
results or see their effect on the economy. Meanwhile, strategic
industries, especially in information and communication
technology, complain of skills shortages and are forced to meet
them by moving research and production abroad.  The U.S. compounds the idiocy of its cramped skilled-
immigrant quotas with impressive thoroughness. For instance, by
law it allocates applications among countries according to a
half-baked notion of diversity, rather than according to its own
economic needs. Many emigrants from  India  excel in engineering
and other technical skills that American companies covet. Yet
India’s quota, small in relation to its pool of outstanding
applicants, artificially restricts their numbers.  The U.S. attracts the best students from all over the world
to its universities and then deports them soon after they have
received degrees. If an immigrant is lucky enough to obtain an
 H1-B visa  -- the prized document sought by most foreign
graduates arriving to work for a U.S. employer -- it can take
years (if at all) to win permanent residency.  In the meantime, the immigrant is forbidden to change
employers and must become very acquainted with the legal system.
(The rules are good for lawyers, at least.) Spouses, for the
most part, aren’t allowed to work. And the  Internal Revenue
Service  has devised special tortures for immigrants who retain
financial connections with their home countries, in effect
regarding them as tax evaders unless they can prove otherwise.
The authorities have thought of everything.  Talent Magnet  Since its founding, the U.S. has been a magnet for the most
talented, ambitious and hard-working people in the world. This
has always been the nation’s greatest strength. Highly skilled
workers have never been more valuable than they are today, and
yet the U.S., in every way it can think of, now tells those
would-be Americans to get lost. They are beginning to get the
message.  It is both remarkable and disgraceful that Congress
understands the problem. It hears of little else from companies,
including General Electric Co., Intel Corp. and Microsoft Corp.,
and yet can’t seem to separate the issue of highly skilled
immigrants from the wider and genuinely difficult aspects of
immigration policy.  Cold political calculations by both parties are holding
back reform. House Republicans arranged a floor vote last month
on a measure that would have offered more residency visas to
immigrants with advanced science, technology, engineering and
math degrees, but set it up to fail by reducing the number of
visas overall (which Democrats oppose).  For their part, Democrats think it best to hold the
skilled-immigration rules hostage until they can get a more
comprehensive agreement (which Republicans tend to resist). We
favor comprehensive reform, too, but not if the result is total
paralysis, with intolerable costs to the economy.  Making progress where agreement is slender or nonexistent
is hard enough, as Congress has proved. Failing to make progress
where agreement exists -- on a policy issue of surpassing
importance -- is unforgivable.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how the  candidates’ tax plans
are converging ; Caroline Baum on the  economic and political
landscapes in 2015 ; Michael Kinsley on  Mitt Romney’s way with
words ; Ezra Klein on the  most important issue in the
presidential race ; Jonathan Mahler on Scott Fujita’s  battle
against the NFL ; Amity Shlaes on why  Obama was wrong to trash
the 1920s ; Richard Thaler on why entrepreneurs aren’t thinking
about  tax rates .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  