-- London Police Say There Are About 300 Victims in Savile Probe
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-10-25T16:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/london-police-say-there-are-about-300-victims-in-savile-probe.html
Former British Broadcasting Corp.
star Jimmy Savile, who’s suspected of sexually abusing children
for decades before he died last year, may have targeted as many
as 100 more girls than police suspected a week ago.  The number of potential victims increased to 300 from 200
when the  Metropolitan Police Service  opened a formal probe into
Savile and other unidentified people on Oct. 19. While no one
has been detained, officers are “preparing an arrest
strategy,” Commander Peter Spindler said at a press conference
today in  London .  The revelations about Savile’s alleged behavior, broadcast
in an  ITV Plc (ITV)  documentary earlier this month, “have trebled the
number of historic abuse claims,” Spindler said. “Some have
yet to come forward.”  Police are investigating claims dating back as far as 1959
that Savile, who hosted  BBC  shows “Top of the Pops” and
“Jim’ll Fix It,” abused underage fans and patients at
hospitals where he sponsored charities. The claims are putting
pressure on the world’s largest public broadcaster, and other
institutions who appointed the entertainer to programs and
positions that dealt with children.  Police in Yorkshire,  England , have been interviewing
Savile’s family, and Savile’s cottage in  Scotland  has been
searched, Spindler said. Savile died a year ago this month at
the age of 84.  Plain Sight  Savile was “hiding in plain sight,” Spindler said.  “Some of the victims just want to tell us what happened
and leave it at that,” Spindler said.  Officers from the Met have spoken with 130 potential
victims and are still contacting others, Spindler said. There
are three categories of incidents, he said, including Savile
acting alone, Savile acting with others, and others acting
alone, he said. Spindler declined to give other details.  The possibility that victims may have alerted the Met to
suspected abuse, only to have the claims ignored due to Savile’s
popularity, “is something we are very alive to,” Spindler
said.  A woman called the Met in 2003 to report Savile had
“touched her inappropriately” in the 1970s, though she didn’t
request an investigation be opened, Spindler said. A retired
police officer has also come forward to say he probed claims
about Savile in the 1980s, though no file of evidence exists
about the case, Spindler said.  Police in Surrey, England, probed claims the TV star abused
a girl at a children’s home in the 1970s, and sent a file of
evidence to the  Crown Prosecution Service  in 2009, the agency
said in a statement on Oct. 22. The CPS said it dropped the case
without charges due to insufficient evidence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  