-- Hong Kong-China $11.7 Billion Bridge Project Accident Kills 1
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-10-25T07:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/hong-kong-china-11-7-billion-bridge-project-accident-kills-1.html
An accident at the 72.9 billion  yuan 
($11.7 billion) bridge project linking Hong Kong to China and
Macau killed one worker and injured 14 others.  The workers were hurt after a platform fell at a
construction site on an artificial island, Peter Lau, director
of highways, said on  Cable Television . Work at the site will be
halted for an investigation, Lau said.  A  China Communications Construction Co. (1800)  unit is listed as
the contractor reclaiming an artificial island as part of the
bridge project, according to information on the website of the
city’s Highways Department. The 35.6-kilometer (22 mile) bridge
was one of the 10 major infrastructure projects started by the
city’s former Chief Executive  Donald Tsang , who wanted to speed
travel in the Pearl River Delta and increase physical links with
the mainland.  China Communications Construction “will cooperate with the
Hong Kong government in any investigation,”   Wonderful Sky
Financial Group Holdings Ltd. (1260) , which handles media relations for
the company, said in an e-mail today. “Whether work would need
to be stopped would depend on the result of any investigation.
As the project has only just started, this won’t have a big
impact on the company.”  Work on the bridge was last year halted after a 66- year-
old woman brought a lawsuit against the government over the
project’s environmental impact. The cost of the project is
shared with Macau, the only place in China where casinos are
legal, and the nation’s Guangdong province.  The accident followed  Hong Kong ’s most deadly maritime
disaster last month, when a collision between two boats off the
city’s coast left at least 39 people dead.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  