-- Hong Kong’s Wing Lung Markets Dollar Notes; Asia Bond Risk Rises
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-10-25T03:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/hong-kong-s-wing-lung-markets-dollar-notes-asia-bond-risk-rises.html
Wing Lung Bank is marketing dollar-
denominated bonds as borrowing costs for Asian issuers in the
currency hold near a record low. Debt risk in the Asia-Pacific
region rose.  The Hong Kong-based lender, which is owned by China
Merchants Bank Co., is offering about $200 million of 10-year
subordinated bonds at a yield of about 300 basis points more
than Treasuries, said a person familiar with the deal. The notes
can be bought back by the company after five years, the person
said, asking not to be named as the terms aren’t set.  India’s Power Finance Corp. and Jakarta-based PT Energi
Mega Persada are considering dollar bonds, people familiar with
the deals said last week. Yields on such notes from Asian
borrowers were little changed at  4.007 percent  yesterday, within
four basis points of a record-low 3.972 percent reached on Oct.
16, according to a JPMorgan Chase & Co. index.  “There are still a lot of deals waiting in the
sidelines,” said Frank Huang, head of fixed-income trading at
SinoPac Securities Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “Borrowers are
enjoying the cheapest funding levels in a long time, so it makes
sense for them to come to the market before December when deals
slow down due to the holidays.”  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  climbed 1.5 basis points to 123 as of
8:03 a.m. in Hong Kong, Credit Agricole SA prices show. The
gauge is set for its fifth consecutive day of increases,
according to data provider CMA.  Bond Risk  The Markit iTraxx Japan index increased 0.5 basis points to
209.5 basis points as of 10:21 a.m. in  Tokyo , Citigroup Inc.
prices show. The measure, which has ranged from 168.5 basis
points to 229.5 basis points since June 30, is set for its
highest close since Oct. 17, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index advanced 1 to 143 as of
11:02 a.m. in Sydney, according to Westpac Banking Corp. The
benchmark is on course for its highest close since Oct. 16,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  