-- Monsanto Roundup-Ready Alfalfa Should Be Blocked, Court Told
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n
-- 2012-10-25T00:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/monsanto-roundup-ready-alfalfa-should-be-blocked-court-told-1-.html
Alfalfa genetically modified to
withstand  Monsanto Co. (MON) ’s herbicide should be taken off the
market because regulators didn’t properly consider how it
affects endangered plants and animals, environmental groups told
a federal appeals court.  Advocacy groups are seeking for the second time in six
years to overturn the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s decision
to deregulate alfalfa engineered to be resistant to Monsanto’s
Roundup-Ready weed killer.  Use of the plant encourages farmers to douse fields with
Roundup, which increases the likelihood of contamination of
other plants and animals within habitat near fields of alfalfa,
the fourth-most-planted U.S. crop behind corn, soybeans and
wheat, according to lawyers for the Washington-based group
Center for Food Safety.  The use of Roundup-ready alfalfa “will result in
substantial harm,” George Kimbrell, an attorney for the Center
for Food Safety, told a three-judge panel today at a U.S. Court
of Appeals hearing in San Francisco. “It will cause the loss of
millions of dollars in export fees.”  Kimbrell’s client is asking the court to ban or at least
encourage the government to limit the use of Roundup-Ready
alfalfa on grounds that unconditional deregulation violates
federal laws protecting endangered species and guarding the
environment against noxious weeds.  ‘A Nullity’  The lawyer said the USDA’s action rendered environmental
protection law “a nullity” and would make Roundup-Ready
alfalfa unregulated.  Government attorneys claim that that the USDA rightly
determined that Roundup-Ready alfalfa is no different from other
alfalfa and therefore doesn’t pose any danger to other plants.
Increased use of weed killer and the effect herbicides have on
endangered species is outside the agency’s purview, they said in
court filings.  “The plaintiffs are confusing plant pests with things that
are not pests,” said Dana Kaersvang, a Justice Department
attorney.  Richard Bress, a Latham & Watkins LLP attorney representing
Monsanto, echoed that argument.  “Under the Plant Protection Act, Roundup-Ready alfalfa is
not a pest,” he said. “It isn’t even close.”  Two of the judges on the panel, Mary Schroeder and N. Randy Smith, questioned the lawyers on how much discretion the USDA
has to regulate Roundup-Ready.  The third panelist, U.S. Circuit Judge Sidney Thomas, asked
Kimbrell: “If it is not a plant pest then the whole case stops
here?”  Environmental Review  Sales of genetically modified alfalfa were first
deregulated in 2005. A federal judge in San Francisco ruled in
the case two years later that more environmental review of the
plant was needed.  The U.S. Supreme Court in 2010 overturned the planting ban
while stopping short of explicitly allowing farmers to begin
planting the seed. After new studies, the USDA deregulated the
plants without restriction in 2011, drawing another lawsuit from
environmental groups and organic farmers.  Alfalfa is worth $9 billion a year, with annual seed sales
valued at $63 million, according to the USDA. Dairy cows are the
primary consumers of alfalfa hay. Monsanto, based in St. Louis,
is the world’s largest seed company.  The case is Center for Food Safety v. Vilsack, 12-15052,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Pamela MacLean in federal court in San Francisco at
 pmaclean@pacbell.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  