-- Orders in U.S. Probably Rose After Biggest Plunge in Three Years
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-10-25T04:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/orders-in-u-s-probably-rose-after-biggest-plunge-in-three-years.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
probably rose in September following the biggest plunge in three
years as demand for airplanes rebounded, economists said before
a report today.  The projected 7.5 percent gain in bookings for goods meant
to last at least three years would fail to make up for a 13.2
percent slump in August that was the biggest since January 2009,
according to the median forecast of 77 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. A less volatile measure that  excludes  transportation
equipment may have advanced 0.9 percent after falling a  combined 
5.1 percent over the previous three months.  Companies from  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  to  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD)  have tempered sales projections, raising the risk that cuts
in business spending ahead of looming tax and government-
spending changes will hold back the economy. In addition,
 exports  to  Europe  and  Asia  are waning as global growth cools,
further hindering American manufacturers.  “The headwinds are causing businesses to become
cautious,” said  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James &
Associates Inc. in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “ Capital spending 
will be soft in the near term. We’re not going to get a lot of
help from exports.”  The Commerce Department’s durable-goods report is due at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from gains of 0.3 percent to 14 percent.  Fewer Claims  Also at 8:30 a.m., Labor Department data may show  claims 
for jobless benefits fell by 18,000 to 370,000 last week,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. Stripping away the ups
and downs caused by difficulty in adjusting the data for swings
at the start of a quarter, the level of firings has been little
changed the past few months, indicating the labor market is slow
to heal.  A separate report at 10 a.m. may show housing is improving.
The National Association of Realtors’  index  of pending home
sales rose 2.5 percent last month after a 2.6 percent drop in
August, economists in the Bloomberg survey projected.  Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday said the economy is
still growing modestly and unemployment remains elevated as it
maintained $40 billion in monthly purchases of mortgage-backed
securities aimed at spurring the three-year expansion.  The slowdown in business investment was among the
developments the central bank highlighted in discussing the
current state of the economy.  Boeing Co., the world’s largest aerospace company, received
orders for 143 airplanes in September, up from one the prior
month and 260 in July.  Less Demand  Other manufacturers are acknowledging a slowdown. Advanced
Micro Devices, the second-largest maker of processors for
personal computers, on Oct. 18 forecast fourth-quarter sales
that will miss analysts’ estimates and said it will cut staff by
15 percent.  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH) , and
 Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  are among the industrial companies
that have also said they’ve been hurt by weak demand.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, this week projected sales growth for 2013 that
would be slower than in the previous three years as the global
economy decelerates. Production across much of the company has
been reduced, with temporary shutdowns and dismissals to help
work through excess stockpiles, it said.  “We’re already taking actions to lower production to deal
with the inventory and we’re ready to do more if we need to,”
Michael DeWalt, director of  investor relations  at Peoria,
Illinois-based Caterpillar, said on an Oct. 22 conference call.
“We’re not banking on a big pickup in the economy.”  Shares Drop  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery  Index (S15MACH) , which
includes companies like Deere & Co., has fallen 6 percent from
its 2012 peak reached in mid-September, while the broader S&P
500 gauge has declined 3.9 percent over the same period.  Factories may remain under pressure heading toward the more
than $600 billion in tax increases and federal spending cuts
that take effect early next year unless Congress acts to
forestall them.  Capital spending is “substantially more sensitive to
policy uncertainty shocks than other areas” of the economy,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists led by  Jan Hatzius  said in
an Oct. 19 research note.  Some of the damage is already visible. The capital spending
outlook as measured by the monthly Philadelphia and  New York  Fed
business surveys have fallen to levels only seen in, or just
prior to, recessions in recent years, they said.  Demand for automobiles remains a bright spot for
manufacturing. Cars and light trucks sold at a  14.9 million 
annual pace in September, the most since March 2008, according
to Ward’s Automotive Group data.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  