-- Motorola Papers Temporarily Sealed in Apple-Samsung Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-10-25T22:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/motorola-papers-temporarily-sealed-in-apple-samsung-suit.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola Mobility unit
won a court bid to temporarily seal records of its patent-
licensing talks with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  that appeared in
the South Korean company’s intellectual property lawsuit against
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in  California .  U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh in  San Jose  today gave
Motorola “one final opportunity” to argue that the documents
should remain sealed and requested a “properly redacted
document” for the court’s review. Motorola Mobility is a
mobile-phone maker acquired by  Mountain View , California-based
Google in May.  The document at issue is a summary of a licensing
negotiation between Motorola and Samsung that took place several
weeks before the two companies reached a 2000 agreement,
according to a court filing. It was filed as an exhibit
supporting Apple’s attempt to depose Samsung witnesses, Motorola
Mobility said.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Paul Grewal on Oct. 10 denied
Motorola’s request to seal the document, concluding the document
is so old that it isn’t worth keeping secret. The judge said he
found Motorola’s arguments “insufficient to overcome the
public’s interest” in open records. Grewal will rule on
Motorola’s new bid, due by Nov. 2, and review the redacted
document, according to Koh’s order.  ‘Overbroad Requests’  “The court has now considered two overbroad requests by
Motorola to seal the same document, in addition to the request
by Samsung that Judge Grewal has already denied,” Koh wrote
today. If Motorola’s final request is overbroad, “no further
requests from Motorola” concerning the records at issue will be
considered, she wrote.  The document reveals a “pattern of financial offers” in
the cellular cross-licensing negotiations and may contain
monetary terms, license rates, the direction of payments, names
of licensed products and technologies, and the geographic scope
of the deal, according to the court filing.  “Understanding Motorola’s pressure points in a negotiation
could give someone an unfair advantage,” Motorola Mobility’s
lawyer, Peter Chassman, told Grewal on Oct. 10.  An Aug. 24 jury verdict in San Jose federal court in which
Cupertino, California-based Apple won $1.05 billion in damages
from Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung is part of a global fight
for dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone market. The
world’s two biggest makers of high-end phones have accused each
other of copying designs and technology for mobile devices and
are waging patent battles on four continents.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  