-- Lotte Pakistan to Spend $20 Million to Upgrade Plant
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2012-10-25T09:35:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/lotte-pakistan-to-spend-20-million-to-upgrade-plant-trim-costs.html
(Corrects fifth paragraph to show $2 billion target is for
revenue and not investment.)  Lotte Pakistan PTA Ltd. (LOTPTA) , the pure
terephthalic acid producer whose shares have declined by a
quarter this year, plans to spend as much as $20 million within
the next two years on its plant to trim costs amid concerns
annual profit will decline.  Lotte, which started commercial operations of a $50 million
power plant in July, plans to modernize its machines, Chief
Executive Officer Asif Saad said in an interview in Karachi. The
power plant may help cut energy costs by 50 percent, he added.
Lotte’s PTA is used to make polyester staple fiber, which is in
turned used to make clothes.  The company, part of  South Korea ’s Lotte Group, reported a
95 percent slump in consolidated net income in the third quarter
to 47.4 million rupees ($495,000) compared with the same period
a year ago. The company posted a consolidated net loss of 247
million rupees for the nine months started January compared with
4.6 billion rupees profit a year earlier.  “This has not been a good year for us,” Saad said. “You
have to appreciate this is a cyclical commodity business and we
are going through a down cycle.”  The Lotte group aims to grow “topline” revenue in  Pakistan  
from about $600 million currently to $2 billion in the next five 
years though expansion in petrochemicals and acquisitions in 
areas such as food, retail and real estate, Saad said.  “Cost cutting will have an impact on their exports, but it
will be very marginal,” Raza Hamdani, a research analyst with
Shajar Capital, said. “I expect the company to make a marginal
profit in 2013 provided they cut costs and regionally prices
rise.”  Lotte, which got all its  sales  from Pakistan last fiscal
year, has to sell its product at international prices linked
with  China , Shajar Capital’s Hamdani said. Lotte is asking
Pakistan’s government to increase duties on PTA imports to 7.5
percent from 3 percent now.  Lotte Pakistan’s  shares  that have declined 24 percent this
year compared with a 40 percent gain in the KSE 100 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid in  Hong Kong  at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  