-- Louisiana Seeks Jury Trial on $1 Billion Claim Against BP
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-10-25T19:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/louisiana-seeks-jury-trial-on-1-billion-claim-against-bp.html
Louisiana asked a federal judge to
order a separate jury trial against  BP Plc (BP/)  over the $1 billion
in economic oil-spill losses that the state claims BP has
stopped paying.  Louisiana Attorney General Buddy Caldwell asked the judge
in New Orleans to make an exception that would allow the state
to proceed with a solo trial over economic losses it suffered as
a result of BP’s 2010 oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Economic
losses include claims for lost tax revenue, royalties and fees
in more than a dozen categories.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier , who is overseeing more
than 600 lawsuits by thousands of coastal businesses, fishing
interests and property owners, has blocked all government
damages claims from going forward until he determines liability
for the spill.  “This has emboldened BP to the point that it is simply
ignoring its legal obligations to pay interim claims” under the
Oil Pollution Act, or OPA, which requires interim damage
payments to oil spill victims, Caldwell said in the filing.
“Because proceedings on damages resulting from the Deepwater
Horizon oil spill are stayed, Louisiana essentially has no
recourse through the legal process.”  Louisiana said in yesterday’s filing that London-based BP
has stated in nonpublic court filings and closed-door meetings
that the company is entitled to offset future damage payments by
any income the state earned from increased economic activity
caused by the massive mobilization to contain and clean up the
spill.  ‘Claim Splitting’  “We will respond to the motion as directed by the court,”
BP spokesman Scott Dean said in an e-mail today. “But we
believe this issue was already addressed when the court found in
September that Louisiana’s request was ‘claim splitting’ and
‘inconsistent with the schedule for the preparation and trial of
Phase One and Phase Two.’”  Dean didn’t comment on Louisiana’s allegations about
offsets.  At a September conference between the judge and lead
lawyers involved in the  spill litigation , BP argued that
“post-2010, the state may have benefited from the disaster, and
after an analysis of the state’s ‘net losses,’ Louisiana may owe
BP money,’” Caldwell said in the filing, repeating a comment he
attributed to a BP lawyer.  ‘Willful Polluter’  “A willful polluter may not rewrite that claim or create
an offset,” the attorney general said. “BP’s assertion that
payment must wait until all future economic losses have been
presented is simply incorrect. Further, nothing in the text of
OPA provides for a calculation of net losses.”  If the judge doesn’t dismiss BP’s “offset defense” on
legal grounds, Caldwell said, Louisiana will ask the court to
order BP to produce evidence backing up the company’s “public
assertion that it has spent over $22 billion to fund response
operations, clean-up and claims” throughout the Gulf Coast
region.  He asked Barbier to consider permitting a stand-alone trial
on  Louisiana ’s claims as a test case for future trials over
spill-related economic losses sought from BP by dozens of state
and local governmental entities.  Caldwell also asked permission to try Louisiana’s economic-
loss claims before a jury rather than the judge. Barbier has
scheduled a nonjury trial for January to determine fault for the
spill and apportion liability among BP and other companies
involved in drilling the ill-fated well.  Spill Victims  BP and a committee of lawyers representing spill victims
reached a proposed settlement in March that would pay an
estimated $7.8 billion to compensate private parties for
economic losses, property damage and injuries from the spill.
Government claims were among the categories of damages
specifically excluded from that deal, which is awaiting approval
by Barbier.  Louisiana isn’t seeking to try its natural-resources
damages claims in the jury trial it proposes, Caldwell said. He
said the state would like to include in that trial its claims
for losses resulting from the deep-water drilling suspension the
Obama administration instituted shortly after the spill. BP has
denied it’s responsible for moratorium losses.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  