-- Our Unprincipled Politics
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-10-25T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/our-unprincipled-politics.html
My late father taught me that what
defines a principle is the willingness to adhere to it even when
that adherence hurts. Maybe that’s why the newfound appreciation
of the Electoral College among many of my friends on the left
has struck me as a weirdly compelling spectacle.  After the 2000 election, when  George W. Bush  lost the
popular vote but (after the Florida debacle) won a majority of
Electoral College votes, liberal commentators spent years
calling for the direct election of the president. Now that there
appears to be a serious prospect that President  Barack Obama 
will lose the popular vote but win a majority of the electors,
the Electoral College doesn’t look so bad.  Now, don’t worry. This isn’t another column about the
virtues or vices of the Electoral College. My concern is with
principle -- principle in the sense in which my father used the
word; a tradition that goes back to Aristotle. When we accuse
someone of being “unprincipled,” it is a special sort of
condemnation. We are calling him a man of poor character, who
acts to gain advantage instead of in accordance with some higher
ethical code.  When politicians and their supporters refer to
“principles,” they usually don’t mean it in the sense that
Aristotle or my father did. “I’ll preserve  Social Security ” or
“I’ll never raise taxes” aren’t statements about fundamental
beliefs. At best, they are examples of conclusions to which one
might reason from fundamental beliefs. Probably, however, they
aren’t even that -- they are simply lines that have tested well
with focus groups.  Principled Distinction  Abraham Lincoln  understood the distinction. In his  Cooper
Union address , a year before he assumed the presidency, Lincoln
had this to say to his opponents in the South: “If we do repel
you by any wrong principle or practice, the fault is ours; but
this brings you to where you ought to have started -- to a
discussion of the right or wrong of our principle.”  A principle, says the Oxford English Dictionary, is “that
from which something originates or is derived; a source, an
origin; the root”; or, in the definition most of us will find
more common, “a fundamental truth or proposition on which others
depend . . . a primary assumption forming the basis of a chain
of reasoning.” This is the sense in which Lincoln used the word.  Subsidiary to that definition is one that mirrors what my
father had in mind: “A general law or rule adopted or professed
as a guide to action; a settled ground or basis of conduct or
practice; a fundamental motive or reason for action, esp. one
consciously recognized and followed.”  The advantage of understanding principle this way is that
the principle in question can be expressed. We can tell each
other what we most fundamentally believe, what settled ground
guides our conduct.  Lincoln’s point was that the argument over slavery wasn’t,
in the first instance, an argument over government policy. It
was an argument over what principles should serve as the basis
for policy. What my father added -- and what I earnestly believe
-- is that a genuine principle entails the possibility of
sacrifice, including sacrifice of one’s own interest, or of the
interest of party or faction.  In  an episode  from the second season of the television show
“The West Wing,” President Josiah Bartlet is trying to get the
Senate to ratify a treaty banning certain nuclear tests. An
election intervenes, and a Pennsylvania Democrat who is a key
“yes” vote is defeated. The treaty has little chance of passage
in the new Senate. The president’s advisers urge him to call a
lame-duck session to allow the outgoing Senate to vote.  But the defeated senator announces that he will abstain.
Pressed by the White House, he explains that he lost his seat
largely over the treaty. The people voted him in; the people
voted him out. He refuses to assume, he says, that Pennsylvania
voters are stupid. They considered and rejected his views, and
he will not demean them by voting “yes” after his defeat.  Respecting Principle  At work here is a very large principle -- larger than the
senator’s support for the treaty. The principle is to respect
the results of elections, and not to use cute little devices to
get around them.  Respect for the constitutional order might also be a
principle. As readers of this column know, I have an enormous
affection for our Constitution with all its intricacy. True, the
document once contained much that was invidious and destructive,
but those provisions have largely been swept away. What remains,
although imperfect, is a paean to a vision of government that
recognizes that the good guys will not always hold power.
Getting things done is therefore difficult by design.  Alas, our major parties ignore the design whenever
convenient. The current administration, for example, has used a
deliberate misreading of the “recess appointment” clause to put
into office individuals who would never have been confirmed by
the Senate. The previous administration relied heavily on
executive “signing statements” as a means of specifying that the
president, having signed a bill, actually intended to enforce
only some parts and not others.  Such actions as these barely make a ripple in the
headlines, but they are fundamental assaults on any sense of
government as proceeding from constitutional principle. They
favor instead expediency -- the notion that what matters most is
getting our way. Principle in the sense that my father had in
mind is rarely mentioned any longer.  Every time the party in power, Democratic or Republican,
changes the rules to make it easier to gain its own ends,
respect for principle is eroded. Every time a candidate cuts an
ethical corner for the sake of advantage, respect for principle
is eroded. Every time we make excuses (“The election is too
important!”) for candidates who run unethical campaigns, respect
for principle is eroded.  Animal Instinct  Too much of life nowadays revolves around the notion that
self-interest is a principle. It isn’t. It’s just an animal
instinct -- a useful one, to be sure, in the functioning of
markets, but a dangerous one to unleash on an entire society.
When we fret about the epidemic of  academic cheating , for
example, what we are really seeing is the predictable result of
the abandonment of principle by we adults who are supposed to be
setting an example.  Yes, we can import into our politics  Vince Lombardi ’s
adage, “Winning isn’t everything, it’s the only thing.” Or we
can try, as my wife and I have, to teach our children what my
parents tried to teach me: Except in time of war, victory isn’t
a principle. If we don’t believe this, it’s time to hunker down
and stop pretending that the American experiment can succeed.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
most recent novel is “The Impeachment of Abraham Lincoln.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the myriad ways  gridlock
undermines Congress ;  Jonathan Alter  on why moderate Romney
wouldn’t make it past  Inauguration Day ;  Jonathan Weil  on why
 mandated audits should end ; Dean Bakopoulos on the  unpredictable
Iowa voter .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 