-- P&G Profit Tops Estimates as McDonald Trims Costs
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-10-25T20:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/p-g-profit-tops-estimates-as-mcdonald-trims-costs.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s
largest consumer-products maker, reported first-quarter profit
that topped analysts’ estimates as it slowed market-share losses
and reduced manufacturing costs.  Net income in the three months ended Sept. 30 slid 6.9
percent to $2.81 billion, or 96 cents a share, from $3.02
billion, or $1.03 a share, a year earlier, the Cincinnati-based
company said today in a statement. Excluding some items, profit
was $1.06 a share. The average of 18 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg was 96 cents.  Chief Executive Officer Bob McDonald is working to
introduce new products to regain market share and reduce costs
amid pressure from activist investor  Bill Ackman . P&G said it
held or gained market share in categories representing more than
45 percent of sales in the quarter, up from 30 percent in the
fourth quarter.  “The positives will help management’s credibility, but the
company will need to demonstrate further consistent execution
before fully convincing skeptics,” Tim Conder, an analyst at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in  St. Louis , said today in a note. He rates
P&G market perform, the equivalent of a hold.  P&G today repeated its  forecast  that per-share profit
excluding some items would be $3.80 to $4 in the current fiscal
year. Analysts estimate $3.89, on average. Sales in the quarter
fell 3.7 percent to $20.7 billion, about matching analysts’
average estimate.  P&G rose 2.9 percent to $70.07 at the close in  New York .
The shares have gained 5 percent this year.  Turnaround Plan  McDonald has come under fire from Ackman, who took a $1.8
billion stake in P&G in July and has pushed to replace him, a
person familiar with the matter has said. The CEO has laid out a
turnaround plan that includes $10 billion in cost cuts through
2016 and recapturing market share in key categories such as
detergents.  “We’re focused on embedding the culture of productivity in
the company,” McDonald said on a media call today. P&G is
adding a global productivity officer to further that goal, he
said.  P&G’s board in July said it unanimously supports McDonald
and his plan after Bloomberg reported that some directors were
dissatisfied with his performance and had discussed replacing
him. The board said it would monitor the plan’s effectiveness.  McDonald is working to spur innovation after P&G’s creation
of breakout products slowed. Once known for inventing new
categories such as home tooth-whitening kits that could command
premium prices, the maker of Pampers diapers and Crest
toothpaste is centralizing some product development and focusing
on categories such as beauty.  Promotions Spending  P&G plans to boost marketing to support a “very strong
slate of innovation” later this year, Chief Financial Officer
Jon Moeller said today on a conference call.  P&G raised its outlay for promotions in the quarter by 2.4
percent from the previous year, the only company in the industry
to significantly increase such spending, Conder said before the
results were released.  Warren Buffett , whose  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , holds about
a 2.2 percent stake in P&G, yesterday told CNBC that he doesn’t
have solutions to improve the company’s profit.  “The earnings on Procter & Gamble have been disappointing
now for a few years,” Buffett said.  Berkshire’s P&G holding declined 19 percent to 59.6 million
shares in the second quarter, according to an August filing
disclosing its U.S. stock portfolio.  Kimberly-Clark Profit  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , the maker of Kleenex tissues and
Huggies diapers, yesterday said third-quarter profit rose 20
percent to $517 million, or $1.30 a share, from $432 million, or
$1.09, a year earlier. The Dallas-based company also raised its
2012 profit forecast for the second time this year, to as much
as $5.25 a share.  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  said today it will cut its global
workforce by 6 percent, or about 2,300 jobs, in a four-year
restructuring program.  The company’s third-quarter net income rose 1.7 percent to
$654 million, or $1.36 a share, from $643 million, or $1.31, a
year earlier, Colgate said. Excluding some items, profit was
$1.38 a share, matching the average of analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  