-- P2 Energy Said to Set Rate on $330 Million of Dividend Loans
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-10-25T20:07:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/p2-energy-said-to-set-rate-on-330-million-of-dividend-loans-1-.html
P2 Energy Solutions Inc. set the
interest rate it will pay on $330 million of loans it’s seeking
to refinance debt and fund a distribution to shareholders,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  A $220 million first-lien term loan will pay interest at
4.75 percentage points more than the London interbank offered
rate, said the person, who asked not to be identified because
the information is private. Libor, a rate banks say they can
borrow in dollars from each other, will have a 1.25 percent
floor.  The software provider to the oil and natural gas industries
is proposing to sell the debt at 99 cents on the dollar, the
person said, reducing proceeds for the company and boosting the
yield to investors.  Lenders will receive one-year soft-call protection of 101
cents, according to the person, meaning the company would have
to pay 1 cent more than face value to refinance the loan during
the first year.  A $110 million second-lien term portion will pay interest
at 8.75 percentage points more than Libor with a 1.25 percent
minimum on the benchmark and is expected to be sold to investors
at 98.5 cents, according to the person.  Second-lien creditors are being offered call protection of
103 cents during the first year, the person said. The premium to
refinance the debt will drop to 2 cents more than face value in
the second year and 1 cent the following year.  Revolving Credit  Jefferies Group Inc. is arranging the financing for the
Denver-based company, which is also seeking a $25 million
revolving line of credit, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Investors have until Nov. 8 to let the bank know
whether they will participate in the deal.  Leverage, or debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, will be 5.7 times total, the
person said.  P2 Energy, which is controlled by Vista Equity Partners
LLC, generated $57.5 million in adjusted Ebitda on revenue of
$147.8 million for the year ended Sept. 30, according to the
person.  Chad Martin, chief financial officer of P2 Energy
Solutions, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  First-lien debt is repaid first in a bankruptcy or
liquidation, second-lien debt is repaid next.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in  New York  at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chapin Wright at 
 cwright4@bloomberg.net  