-- Packer’s Six-Star Sydney Casino Plan Wins Government Backing
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-10-25T06:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/packer-s-six-star-sydney-casino-wins-initial-government-backing.html
Billionaire James Packer’s plans for
a six-star casino on the shores of Sydney’s harbor received
initial backing from the government of New South Wales state,
which controls gambling licenses in the city.  A hotel and casino that Packer’s  Crown Ltd. (CWN)  gambling
company plans to build at the Barangaroo site being developed by
 Lend Lease Group (LLC)  would be a “world-class tourist facility,”
creating more than 1,200 jobs and resulting in investment of A$1
billion ($1 billion) in the state, Premier Barry O’Farrell said
in an e-mailed statement.  The state government will carry out a financial assessment
of the plan and report in the new year, O’Farrell said. It won’t
allow slot machines to be part of the development and any
license granted for the site wouldn’t come into effect before
 Echo Entertainment Group Ltd. (EGP) ’s exclusive license expires in
November 2019, he said.  Crown and associates of  Genting Bhd. (GENT) , the Malaysian
gambling company controlled by Lim Kok Thay, have worked to
boost their exposure to Sydney’s gaming market as they vie to
increase their stakes in Echo, holder of the city’s only casino
license. They both have shares of less than 10 percent and have
applied to raise their holdings to as high as 25 percent, a
level that would typically compel a takeover bid under
Australian corporate law.  ‘Major Step’  The state government’s decision is a “major step forward”
for the hotel plan, Rowen Craigie, Crown’s chief executive
officer, said in a regulatory statement after the announcement.  Echo shares fell 3.7 percent to A$3.65 at the close in
Sydney, their sharpest drop in a month. Crown slipped 0.3
percent to A$9.46 while the broader S&P/ASX 200 index rose 0.1
percent.  Echo’s exclusive casino license wouldn’t necessarily be an
impediment to Crown’s plans as the hotel project isn’t scheduled
for completion until 2018, Larry Gandler, a  Melbourne-based
analyst for Credit Suisse Group AG, said in an Aug. 13 note to
clients.  Echo announced plans in June to raise A$454 million to pay
down debt amid a slowdown in consumer sentiment that drove a
A$28 million second-half loss.  Star Casino  The results were a “disappointing outcome,” Chairman John O’Neill said according to a transcript of his speech at the
company’s annual shareholder meeting in  Australia ’s Gold Coast
today. Gross revenue in the first 16 weeks of the company’s
financial year was up 13 percent from a year earlier and rose 28
percent at Sydney’s Star casino, even as sales at its Queensland
sites fell.  “Without the opportunity for a game-changing investment,
our properties in Queensland cannot and will not perform better
than the markets they operate in,” he said.  Australia hasn’t built a new large luxury hotel without an
attached casino in the past two decades because such projects
can’t turn a profit without gambling revenues, Craigie told
investors on an Aug. 10 conference call.  “The economics of building a luxury hotel in Australia of
world standard, it’s just not good without cross-subsidization
from gaming,” he said. “That’s why Australia’s capital cities
are starved of new luxury hotels outside the casino sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  