-- Pearson, Bertelsmann in Penguin-Random House Merger Talks
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-29T08:28:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/pearson-in-bertelsmann-talks-to-merge-penguin-random-house-1-.html
(Corrects combined revenue in second paragraph of story
published Oct. 26.)  Pearson Plc (PSON)  is in talks to combine
its Penguin book-publishing unit with Bertelsmann SE’s Random
House as the media companies seek to bulk up in response to a
surge in providers of electronic books.  The merged entity would have combined revenue of about 3
billion euros ($3.9 billion), based on 2011 annual reports. No
agreement has been reached and the discussions may not lead to a
transaction, Pearson said yesterday. Christian Steinhof, a
spokesman for Bertelsmann, referred to Pearson’s statement and
declined to comment further.  Bertelsmann Chief Executive Officer Thomas Rabe, who took
over in January, is looking for acquisitions to reduce the
Guetersloh, Germany-based company’s dependence on  Europe  and
expand its digital businesses. Pearson is seeking to boost its
education unit and has selected that division’s chief John Fallon to succeed CEO Marjorie Scardino, who will step down by
the end of the year.  “It is a defensive deal that helps reduce costs and
restore profitability but does not solve the problem of sales
growth,” said  Alex DeGroote , a media analyst at Panmure Gordon
& Co. in  London . “It does not seem that any money is changing
hands, but that it is just a joint venture.”  Merging the units could reduce their estimated combined
cost base of 2 billion pounds by 2 percent to 3 percent,
DeGroote estimates. Bertelsmann will probably have a bigger
stake in the entity to reflect Random House’s greater revenue,
he said.  ‘Wimpy Kid’  Pearson  rose  1.7 percent to 1,233 pence at 9:53 a.m. in
London, giving the publisher a market value of 10.1 billion
pounds ($16.3 billion). The stock has gained about 3 percent in
the 12 months through yesterday. Bertelsmann is closely held by
the Mohn family, descendants of Carl Bertelsmann, who founded
the company in 1835.  Penguin, which published its first books in 1935 including
works of  Ernest Hemingway  and Agatha Christie, reported a 3.5
percent decline in sales to 441 million pounds for the first
half. Profit fell to 22 million pounds from 42 million pounds a
year ago even as its books won two Pulitzer prizes and 132 made
the  New York Times (NYT)  bestsellers list.  “Strategically it makes sense for Pearson as there are
synergies to be gained from the merger,” said Ian Whittaker, an
analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd. in London. “In an industry that
is facing structural problems, the easiest way to get profits
are synergies and cost cutting.”  The combined heft of Random House and Penguin could give
the companies more control over the market as book publishers
face pressure from big buyers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  who are
able to drive down prices, Whittaker said.  Valuation  Penguin, publisher of “The Help” and “Diary of a Wimpy
Kid” series, is valued at about 750 million pounds, based on 7
times earnings before interest and taxes for “mature”
publishers, according to DeGroote.  Random House’s revenue increased 20 percent in the first
half to 947 million euros. Bertelsmann’s publishing unit
profited from sales of international bestseller “50 Shades of
Grey” and rising e-book sales. Earnings before interest and
taxes rose by 64 percent to 113 million euros.  Random House’s e-book sales accounted for 25 percent of its
revenue in the first half. Penguin, lagging behind in this
business, is catching up as its e-book sales grew by 33 percent
in the first six months, bringing the unit’s revenue from
digital books to 19 percent.  Game Changer?  Still, the talks with  Random House  are “not a game
changer” for Pearson, Whittaker said. Penguin accounts for
about 17 percent of sales at Pearson, whose business is
dominated by its educational software, books and services.  Pearson, which also owns the Financial Times newspaper and
a stake in the Economist magazine, has been bulking up its
holdings in the more lucrative education business.  Outgoing CEO Scardino had addressed the company’s declining
print businesses by moving them into digital formats such as e-
books and online subscriptions. While those new products have
grown, some analysts, including Claudio Aspesi of Sanford C.
Bernstein, have said the transition to a new CEO may lead to a
restructuring or sale of the publishing businesses and help the
company streamline itself around education.  The education business’s sales grew 10 percent to 1.93
billion pounds in the first half from a year earlier.  “Some of the items that will be part of the agenda of the
new CEO should include what to do with the remaining assets
which are not directly supporting the growth of education,”
Aspesi wrote in a note this month after Scardino announced her
retirement. “This may lead to unlocking value hidden in those
assets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  