-- Pending Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Rose 0.3% in September
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-10-25T17:52:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/pending-sales-of-existing-homes-in-u-s-rose-0-3-in-september.html
Americans signed fewer contracts
than forecast in September to purchase previously owned homes, a
sign the industry’s recovery will be uneven.  The  index  of pending home resales climbed 0.3 percent after
a 2.6 percent drop in August, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in Washington. The reading
compared with a median forecast of a 2.5 percent gain in a
Bloomberg survey of 33 economists.  Tight access to credit and limited progress in reducing
unemployment are hurdles for home purchases, even as borrowing
rates remain at record lows. Federal Reserve policy makers are
purchasing mortgage-backed securities to help spur the industry
as part of a monetary policy aimed at bolstering the job market.  “There’s a certain amount of pickup that’s taken place,
but I think we have to temper our expectations of what can
happen without employment,” Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist
at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in  New York , said before the
report. “I think the housing numbers will start to stall if you
don’t get the labor market improvement.”  Stocks advanced amid better-than-projected corporate
earnings. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3 percent to
1,412.44 at 1:46 p.m. in New York.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from gains of 0.5
percent to 4 percent. Compared with a  year earlier , the index
rose 8.5 percent after a 9.6 percent gain in the 12 months ended
in August. The year-over-year change is based on unadjusted
data. After adjustment, the increase from September 2011 was
14.5 percent.  ‘Elevated Level’  “Home contract activity remains at an elevated level in
contrast with recent years, but currently appears to be bouncing
around in a narrow range,”  Lawrence Yun , chief economist at the
Realtors’ group, said in a statement. “With positive underlying
market fundamentals, they should continue on an uptrend in
2013.”  Among other reports today, orders for  durable goods  climbed
9.9 percent in September on a surge in demand for aircraft.
Bookings for non-defense capital equipment excluding planes, a
proxy for business investment, were little changed after rising
0.2 percent in August, according to the Commerce Department.  Fewer Americans filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week, Labor Department figures showed today.
Jobless claims declined by 23,000 to 369,000 during the period,
in line with forecasts.  By Region  Three of four regions showed a gain in pending sales,
according to today’s report from the real-estate agents’ group.
That included a 4.3 percent rise in the West, a 1.4 percent
increase in the Northeast and a 1 percent advance in the South.
They dropped 5.8 percent in the Midwest.  Pending home sales are considered a leading indicator
because they track contract signings. Purchases of existing
homes are tabulated when a contract closes, typically a month or
two later, and made up more than 90 percent of the housing
market last year.  Purchases of new homes, logged when contracts are signed,
rose in September to the highest level in more than two years,
the Commerce Department said yesterday. Sales of  previously
owned  U.S. homes decreased from the highest level in two years,
the realtors’ group reported on Oct. 19.  Property values also are improving. The S&P/Case-Shiller
index of  home prices  in 20 cities increased more than forecast
in July from a year earlier, according to Sept. 25 data from the
group, which is set to release the next report on Oct. 30.  Interest Rates  Sustained declines in borrowing costs are supporting the
industry. The average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped
to 3.37 percent in the week ended Oct. 18, near a record low of
3.36 reported Oct. 4, according to data from McLean, Virginia-
based  Freddie Mac  that dates back to 1971.  The Fed last month announced the third round of large-scale
asset purchases, pledging to buy $40 billion a month in
mortgage-backed securities as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  called
housing “one of the missing pistons in the engine.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee , in its last scheduled
meeting before the presidential election, repeated yesterday
that it would press on with the asset purchases until the labor
market improves “substantially.”  Housing’s improvement has extended to some companies like
swimming-pool product supplier  Pool Corp. (POOL)  of Covington,
 Louisiana .  “We do see that creeping up gradually over time,” Manuel Perez de la Mesa, the company’s president and chief executive
officer, said about new pool construction on an Oct. 18 earnings
call.  “People have to view their homes as an investment and not
as an expense,” he said. “Once they view that home as an
investment, they’ll be more willing to invest in their home
whether it’d be in resurfacing the pool, replacing the equipment
or again, bigger leap of faith, putting in a new pool.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  