-- Philippine Bonds Gain as Economists Forecast Interest-Rate Cut
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-10-25T06:02:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/philippine-bonds-gain-as-economists-forecast-interest-rate-cut.html
Philippine three-year bonds rose for
a second day on speculation the central bank will lower its
benchmark interest rate today for a fourth time this year.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas will reduce its overnight
 borrowing rate  by a quarter of percentage point to a record-low
3.5 percent, according to 14 of 21 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The rest expect no change. There’s room to cut the rate
further, Governor Amando Tetangco said this month, as policy
makers seek to support growth while curbing fund inflows. The
outlook for inflation remains ‘benign,’ he said Oct. 10.  “The central bank will probably cut rates as inflation is
not an issue while the global economic trend remains
uncertain,” said Lito Mercado, head of trading at  Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB)  in  Manila . “For the market, a rate cut
is on the table, whether today or the next meeting.”  The yield on the 11.875 percent securities due August 2015
fell 7 basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.97 percent,
the lowest level since Oct. 8 and the biggest decline in a
month, according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp.  Inflation slowed to 3.6 percent in September from 3.8
percent in August, which was the fastest pace in seven months,
government data show. The central bank has cut its benchmark
rate three times this year.  “If they decide not to cut today, we will probably see the
peso strengthen further and some knee-jerk increase in bond
yields,” Mercado said. “But then, this will only be temporary
because that would mean the expectations of a rate cut in
December will be greater.”  The peso was little changed at 41.342 per dollar at the
midday break from 41.363 yesterday, according to prices from
Tullett Prebon Plc. It has gained 0.1 percent this week. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used
to price options, was little changed at 5 percent.  Philippine markets are shut for a holiday tomorrow. The
next policy meeting will be on Dec. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  