-- Portugal Faces Difficult Choices to Comply With Aid Program
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a
-- 2012-10-25T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/portugal-faces-difficult-choices-to-comply-with-aid-program.html
Portugal faces “increasingly
difficult” policy choices as it approaches the halfway mark of
its aid program and political opposition to austerity measures
increases, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “The Portuguese authorities have continued with their
impressive policy effort to gradually reverse the large economic
imbalances accumulated over the last two decades,” the IMF said
in a staff report on the fifth review of the rescue program for
Portugal. “Policy choices have to strike a balance between
going ahead with the additional adjustment measures needed to
lower debt and bring the public finances to a sustainable path,
and avoiding undue strains on the economy and employment.”  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is battling rising
joblessness and a deepening recession as he raises taxes to meet
the terms of a 78 billion-euro ($101 billion) bailout from the
European Union and the IMF. Portugal has already been given more
time to narrow its deficit after  tax revenue  missed forecasts
and the economy heads for a third year of contraction in 2013.  “There are signs aplenty of adjustment fatigue,” the
Washington-based IMF said. “With unemployment high and real
disposable incomes falling for several quarters in a row
already, the announcement of further austerity measures to
underpin the 2013 budget is testing the broad-based political
and social consensus that has buttressed the program to date.”  Tax Increases  Portuguese Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar on Oct. 3 said the
government plans to implement an “enormous” increase in taxes
on wages and other income to meet budget deficit targets in
2013. Levies will increase through a 4 percent surcharge on
income and a reduction in the number of tax brackets to five
from eight.  “The measures are tilted more to the revenue side than
staff would have preferred,” with Portugal already having a
“relatively high” tax burden, the IMF report said. “However,
the authorities found it challenging to identify more
expenditure cuts at this stage.”  The government said in a document submitted to European
authorities that it’s also preparing a set of contingency
measures to use during 2013 if needed. Gaspar on Oct. 15
reaffirmed a plan to cut spending by about 4 billion euros in
the two years through 2014. This year’s revenue from taxes and
social security contributions will be about 3.3 billion euros
lower than planned in the 2012  budget , he said on Oct. 3.  Deficit Goals  Portugal now aims to reduce its deficit to 5 percent of
gross domestic product in 2012 and 4.5 percent in 2013. It will
only cut the deficit below the EU’s 3 percent limit in 2014,
when it targets a 2.5 percent gap.  Portugal’s  debt  will peak at 124 percent of GDP in 2014,
higher than a July forecast for a maximum of 118 percent in
2013, the IMF said. The increase in the projection is due to the
slower pace of fiscal adjustment, the recession, and “more
conservative” projections for privatization revenue, the IMF
said today.  “With debt set to peak in 2014 and start declining
steadily thereafter, the debt outlook remains sustainable,
although the room for maneuver has narrowed somewhat,” the IMF
said.  Any further deterioration in the economic outlook could
threaten the debt goal, the IMF said, adding that more
structural reforms were needed to boost potential growth.  ‘Decisive Action’  The government projects GDP will shrink 1 percent in 2013
after contracting 3 percent this year. The  unemployment rate 
will rise to 16.4 percent in 2013 from 15.5 percent this year.
Economic growth has averaged less than 1 percent a year for the
past decade, placing Portugal among  Europe ’s weakest performers.  “Without more decisive actions to raise competitiveness,
employment, and potential growth, adjustment risks being
affected through a drawn-out  recession ,” the IMF said  The IMF’s debt projection is based on the assumption that
Portugal returns to markets in the middle of 2013 with yields on
medium- and long-term debt of about 7 percent. The fund sees
those yields declining to 5 percent over the next four years and
holding at those levels, today’s report said.  Portugal’s 10-year bond yield is now about 7.8 percent,
while two-year debt yields 4.9 percent. The difference in yield
that investors demand to hold  Portugal ’s 10-year bonds instead
of German bunds has narrowed to 6.2 percentage points from 16
percentage points on Jan. 31.  Return to Markets  Passos Coelho has said that if the country can’t tap bond
markets by September 2013 due to “external reasons,” it would
be able to count on continued support from the IMF and the EU.
While Portugal has continued selling bills, it hasn’t auctioned
bonds since requesting the bailout in April 2011.  Portugal has to meet a September 2013 bond redemption
without relying on the bailout program, which extends until the
middle of 2014. On Oct. 3 the country’s debt agency exchanged
3.76 billion euros of bonds maturing in September next year for
securities due in 2015, reducing its 2013 repayment burden.  “Staff considers that  market access  can be regained within
the period that IMF resources are outstanding, although there
remain risks of delay in market access and euro-area lenders may
be called upon their commitment to provide adequate support to
Portugal so long as performance under the program is on track,”
the report said.  Portugal may issue debt with maturities of two or three
years if market conditions allow, the IMF said. The additional
financing needs in 2012 and 2013 will be met through increased
issuance of treasury bills, the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  