-- Potash Corp. Cuts Forecast on Delayed China, India Sales
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-10-25T20:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/potash-corp-posts-profit-in-line-with-estimates-cuts-forecasts.html
Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. ,
the world’s largest fertilizer producer, cut its 2012 earnings
forecast because of reduced sales of its namesake crop nutrient
to  China  and  India .  Earnings, excluding an impairment charge related to an
investment in  Sinofert Holdings Ltd. (297) , will be $2.40 to $2.60 a
share, the Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-based company said today in a
statement. Potash Corp. said Oct. 17 that full-year results were
expected to fall below its previous guidance of $2.80 to $3.20 a
share. Analysts projected profit of $3.04 a share, the average
of 27 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “China’s potash consumption has been strong, but it has
been meeting its recent needs through domestic production,
inventory withdrawals and rail deliveries” from  Russia , Chief
Executive Officer Bill Doyle said today on a conference call. He
said he expects China to renew its supply contract with  North
America ’s largest producers by the end of this year, and gave no
forecast for when India would sign a new supply deal.  Potash Corp.,  Mosaic Co. (MOS)  and  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , North America’s
largest fertilizer producers, negotiate offshore potash exports
through Canpotex Ltd., their jointly owned international trading
arm.  Potash Corp. fell 0.3 percent to C$40.17 at the close in
Toronto.  The shares  have declined 4.6 percent this year.  ‘The Question’  Sales of potash, which helps strengthen plant roots and
improve resistance to drought, generated 64 percent of the
company’s  gross profit  last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “The question in the potash market and in our outlook for
the balance of the year continues to be the timing of new supply
contracts with China and India,” Doyle said on the call.  The delayed contract renewals led to a 25 percent decline
in third-quarter shipments from North American producers to
offshore markets, the company said in the statement.  Doyle declined to update Potash Corp.’s 2013 outlook for
global potash shipments. Last month, the company forecast
shipments of as much as 60 million metric tons.  The company today forecast the global fertilizer industry
will ship 50 million to 52 million tons of potash this year.
That’s down from 53 million to 56 million tons predicted in
July.  Profit Drops  Third-quarter  net income  dropped 22 percent to $645
million, or 74 cents a share, from $826 million, or 94 cents, a
year earlier, the company said today. Per-share profit was one
cent less than the average of 22  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Revenue fell 7.7 percent to $2.14 billion from $2.32
billion a year earlier. The company, which also makes nitrogen-
and phosphate-based nutrients, sold 2.1 million metric tons of
potash in the quarter, down from 2.2 million a year earlier.  The company said this month it will halt production at two
of its potash mines in Saskatchewan for about eight weeks each.
The Rocanville mine will be idle from Dec. 2 to Jan. 26 while
Lanigan will shut Nov. 18 to Jan. 12, the company said.  Doyle said he expects there will be further production
curtailments.  “Potash is cutting production volumes to match demand,”
 John Hughes , a Toronto-based analyst at Desjardins Securities
Inc., said today by telephone. “Ultimately, lower potash
production means lower sales.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  