-- Pound Jumps After U.K. Emerges From Recession; Gilts Drop
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-10-25T15:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/pound-advances-before-data-forecast-to-show-u-k-recession-ended.html
The pound climbed the most in three
weeks against the dollar after Britain’s economy expanded by
more than analysts forecast in the third quarter, pulling the
nation out of a recession.  U.K. government bonds fell as the strongest growth in five
years prompted economists at Barclays Plc and Investec
Securities to abandon forecasts for the Bank of England to
expand its bond-buying program next month. Sterling advanced to
a one-week high versus the euro after central bank Deputy
Governor  Charles Bean  said the economy was “past its worst.”  “The pound is getting a boost from the GDP data coming in
quite a bit above market expectations,” said  Ian Stannard , head
of European foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in
 London . “We could now see the pound strengthening more,
particularly against the euro.”  The pound added 0.6 percent to $1.6128 at 4:21 p.m. London
time, after rising as much as 0.7 percent, the steepest gain
since Oct. 4. Sterling rose 0.7 percent to 80.32 pence per euro,
after touching 80.29 pence, the strongest since Oct. 11.  Gross domestic product expanded 1 percent in the three
months through September from the previous quarter, the fastest
growth since 2007, Office for National Statistics data showed
today. That exceeded the highest estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey for a 0.8 percent increase.  Investors should sell the pound if it appreciates to 80.20
pence per euro, Stannard said. Morgan Stanley forecasts the
currency will depreciate to 83 pence per euro by year-end.  “Although the data is strong and sterling will probably
enjoy that for the next couple of days, the bigger picture is
weak and for a weaker currency,” he said.  BOE Meeting  The  Bank of England ’s Monetary Policy Committee must decide
at its meeting on Nov. 7-8 whether to end its asset-purchase
program, known as quantitative easing, or extend it beyond 375
billion pounds.  “Today’s report strongly questions the case for another
round of QE” in November, Audrey Childe-Freeman, head foreign-
exchange strategist at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in London, wrote in an
e-mailed note. “A change in expectations on that front should
prove supportive for sterling.”  The current round of asset purchases will probably be the
last, Barclays economists including London-based Chris Crowe and
 Simon Hayes  wrote in a note to clients after the GDP data,
dropping their forecast that the central bank would expand
stimulus by 50 billion pounds next month.  Stimulus Unchanged  Investec also predicts policy makers will leave the
stimulus program unchanged at the next meeting, Chief Economist
 Philip Shaw  wrote in a client note today. It revised a call for
a 50 billion pound increase.  The pound has advanced 0.6 percent in the past three months
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-market currencies. The euro gained 3.4 percent and
the dollar dropped 3.8 percent.  The 10-year gilt yield climbed six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.91 percent. The 1.75 percent bond due in
September 2022 fell 0.54, or 5.40 pounds per 1,000-pound face
amount, to 98.57.  The data mean “higher gilt yields in the short term,”
Nigel Jenkins, a fixed-income strategist at Payden & Rygel
Global Ltd., which oversees $70 billion, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” with  Maryam Nemazee .  “Somewhere between these numbers and the past few quarters
is probably the reality, very muted, sub-par growth,” London-
based Jenkins said.  Higher Yields  Ten-year gilt yields may rise as much as 40 basis points in
the next three-to-six months, he predicted. The 10-year rate
will advance to 2.14 percent by the end of the second quarter of
next year, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Britain is the first of the Group of Seven nations to
announce GDP data for the third quarter. The report today is an
initial estimate and the figures are subject to revision when
the statistics office gets more information.  “It’s going to take time, probably several months, but I
would like to make people more optimistic about the future,”
the Bank of England’s Bean said in an interview published on the
Daily Post newspaper’s website today.  Governor  Mervyn King  said this week that the recovery is
proceeding at a “slow and uncertain” pace and a “zig-zag”
pattern is likely to persist.  Gilts have returned 2.4 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bonds gained 2.6 percent and Treasuries earned 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  