-- PPR May Advance After Gucci Maker Says Confident for 2012 Growth
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-10-25T23:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/ppr-confident-for-2012-as-luxury-leads-quarterly-revenue-growth.html
PPR SA (PP)  may rise in Paris trading
after saying it’s confident of revenue and profit growth in 2012
and reporting a 16 percent gain in third-quarter sales, led by
demand for  luxury goods  such as Gucci bags and  Bottega Veneta 
wallets.  Revenue from continuing operations rose to 2.56 billion
euros ($3.3 billion) from 2.2 billion euros a year earlier,
Paris-based PPR said after markets closed yesterday. The average
of six  analysts’ estimates  surveyed by Bloomberg was 2.57
billion euros. Growth was 6.6 percent excluding currency shifts
as a 12 percent increase at the luxury unit outweighed a 1.2
percent decline at the sports and lifestyle division.  A 7 percent advance in comparable sales at Gucci, PPR’s
largest brand by revenue, “was pretty reassuring,” said Thomas Mesmin, an analyst at CA Cheuvreux in Paris. “Also, it’s quite
reassuring for” the fourth quarter, when the label plans to
open more stores, he said. The analyst, who has an outperform
rating on PPR  shares , expects the market to react positively to
PPR’s quarterly performance.  Luxury-goods companies are fighting for sales as some
consumers rein in spending while others continue to splash out.
British handbag maker  Mulberry Group Plc (MUL)  forecast an unexpected
drop in full-year profit this week, while  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) 
said Sept. 11 that profit would be at the lower end of a range
of estimates.  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA said last month it hadn’t
yet been affected by the weakening global economy.  The gain in luxury revenue was “propelled by the momentum
of our brands across all of the group’s regions,” Chief
Executive Officer Francois-Henri Pinault said in a statement.
Comparable sales rose 21 percent at Bottega Veneta, 27 percent
at  Yves Saint Laurent  and 16 percent at other luxury brands.  Volcom Delivery Delays  The decline in revenue at PPR’s sports and lifestyle unit
was caused partly by the Volcom surf- and skate-wear brand,
where delivery delays hurt sales, PPR said. The impact on Volcom
should be reversed in the fourth quarter, Chief Financial
Officer Jean-Marc Duplaix said on a conference call yesterday.
Puma sales were stable overall on a comparable basis, the
company said.  Puma said this week that full-year profit will be
“significantly below” 2011 because of one-time expenses as it
cuts costs to combat a weakening consumer climate in  Europe . The
brand is closing stores, trimming product ranges and cutting
jobs.  Sports & Lifestyle  The sports and lifestyle division’s weakness “is not a
very good signal if you consider that most of the acquisitions
to be made by PPR over the next five to 10 years should be on
sports and lifestyle,” said CA Cheuvreux’s Mesmin. PPR  bought 
Volcom last year.  PPR’s quarterly figures exclude online retailer Redcats and
the Fnac media and consumer-electronics chain that the company
plans to dispose of as it focuses on luxury and sporting goods.
PPR earlier this month said it plans to spin off Fnac next year.  Talks regarding the sale of Redcats’s U.S. operations are
“well advanced,” while discussions regarding the unit’s
children’s and family brands have been “initiated,” PPR Group
Managing Director Jean-Francois Palus said on the call. The
information memorandums for Redcats’s Nordic brands are being
finalized and the process will be triggered in the middle of
November for completion in the first quarter, Palus said, adding
that the process for La Redoute and the French brands will be
triggered after that.  PPR may announce the sale of parts of Redcats before the
end of the year, Duplaix said on a separate call to reporters.
Completing the disposal of all of Redcats will take several
months, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  