-- President Lee’s Son Questioned by Prosecutors in Seoul
-- B y   S e y o o n   K i m   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2012-10-25T05:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/president-lee-s-son-questioned-by-prosecutors-in-seoul-1-.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak ’s son was questioned by prosecutors today, three months
after the leader apologized for “unfortunate incidents”
surrounding his family.  Lee Si Hyung, the president’s only son, told reporters
outside the special prosecutors’ office in Seoul that he would
answer questions sincerely and truthfully. His arrival was
broadcast live on YTN Television.  Lee was summoned over a now-suspended project to build a
retirement home for his father that may have been financed with
taxpayer money, according to a report by Yonhap News.
Prosecutors are pursuing corruption cases against former
presidential aides, ministers, officials of  South Korea ’s ruling
New Frontier Party and members of the president’s family.  Lee Si Hyung didn’t answer directly when asked by reporters
today if he had been acting on instructions from his father in
relation to the project. Presidential spokeswoman Lee Miyon
declined to comment when contacted by telephone.  One of the president’s brothers, former lawmaker Lee Sang
Deuk, was indicted in July for his alleged involvement in a
savings bank bribery scandal. Another brother, Lee Sang Eun, was
allegedly involved in transactions related to the retirement-
home project, according to the Yonhap report. Lee’s single five-
year term as president ends in February.  “I caused the public much concern in recent days with
unfortunate incidents happening around me and in my family,”
President Lee said in a four-minute televised speech on July 24,
without elaborating. “I apologize deeply and will take full
responsibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Shinhye Kang in  Seoul  at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net ;
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 Bmiller307@bloomberg.net  