-- PulteGroup Falls as Putback Concern Overshdows Profit
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-10-25T20:33:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/pultegroup-profit-tops-estimates-as-new-home-sales-climb.html
PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, fell 2.5 percent after pending home
sales missed economists’ estimates and investors grew concerned
that mortgage-repurchase demands will increase.  The builder, based  Bloomfield Hills ,  Michigan , told
analysts on its third-quarter earnings conference call that its
putback requests, or demands from mortgage investors for lenders
to repurchase faulty loans, rose in the period. That
overshadowed a third-quarter profit that beat analyst estimates
on rising revenue.  “Based on management commentary on the call and the recent
trend in putbacks, it appears likely that some type of charge
may be forthcoming,” Megan McGrath, an analyst at MKM Partners
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in an e-mail. “The
uncertainty around the timing and eventual size of that charge
may have frustrated investors today.”  PulteGroup fell 44 cents to $17.01 at the close of trading
in  New York . The 2.5 percent drop was the third-worst
performance in the 11-member Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Homebuilding Index, which declined 1.7 percent. Homebuilder
stocks fell today after the National Association of Realtors
announced a smaller-than-estimate increase in purchase  contracts
 for existing homes September, signaling an uneven recovery.  A slide in PulteGroup’s presentation to analysts today
showed that the company’s gross monthly mortgage-repurchase
requests climbed to almost 200 in September from about 120 in
July.  ‘Over Time’  There hasn’t been a “dramatic change,” Chief Financial
Officer Robert O’Shaughnessy said.  “We tend to look at these things over time,” he said on
the conference call. “Two months or three months, we don’t
think necessarily makes a trend. We have to see what that
evolves to.”  If repurchases continue at the elevated level, the builder
would consider increasing reserves, he said.  PulteGroup reported net income for the third quarter of
$116.6 million, or 30 cents a share, compared with a loss of
$129.3 million, or 34 cents, a year earlier. The average
estimate of 19 analysts in a Bloomberg  survey  was for earnings
of 20 cents a share. Revenue rose 14 percent to $1.3 billion,
and orders jumped 27 percent to 4,544 homes.  PulteGroup is on track to be profitable for the full year,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Richard Dugas  said in the
earnings statement.  Home Sales  “Although still well below historical levels, the U.S.
housing market has realized a meaningful increase in the volume
of new home sales for the first nine months of 2012,” Dugas
said. “In past cycles, the U.S. housing industry proved to be a
powerful engine that could help drive the economy forward and
accelerate the pace of a recovery. A similar scenario could
again be unfolding.”  U.S. purchases of  new homes  rose in September to the
highest level since April 2010, the Commerce Department said
yesterday, as  mortgage rates  approached record lows and the
 supply  of existing homes for sale tumbled.  PulteGroup has gained 170 percent this year, the  best
performance  in the S&P homebuilding index, which advanced 84
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 