-- Putin Had ‘Mixed Feelings’ on Rosneft’s $55 Billion TNK-BP Deal
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y
-- 2012-10-25T16:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/putin-had-mixed-feelings-on-rosneft-s-55-billion-tnk-bp-deal.html
President  Vladimir Putin  said he and
the government had “mixed feelings” when he first heard about
state-run OAO Rosneft’s plan to buy  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Russian oil
venture, boosting state ownership in the world’s biggest oil and
gas producing nation.  Rosneft agreed to buy out both BP and its billionaire
partners in TNK-BP, Russia’s third-largest oil company, for
almost $55 billion, creating a crude producer with output equal
to Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s biggest publicly traded oil
company.  “When BP’s management approached me and said, ‘We would
like to partner with Rosneft,’ we couldn’t say no because
otherwise it would seem that we were pushing them toward TNK,
with whom they were in constant conflict,” Putin told the
Valdai group of foreign analysts and reporters at a meeting
today outside Moscow.  The deal will benefit Rosneft by giving BP two board seats,
improving transparency at the Moscow-based company, Putin said.
BP will end up with 19.75 percent of Rosneft after using some of
its sale proceeds to buy state-held shares. It will also end the
fraught, nine-year venture between BP and the billionaires.  TNK-BP accounted for about a quarter of BP’s global output
and returned $19 billion in dividends to the U.K. company. The
company hasn’t paid dividends in 2012 because it has lacked a
functioning board since December.  Rosneft agreed to buy BP’s 50 percent of TNK-BP for $26.8
billion in cash and shares and has an initial agreement to
acquire the half of the company owned by AAR, which represents
companies controlled by billionaires  Mikhail Fridman ,  German Khan ,  Viktor Vekselberg  and  Len Blavatnik , for $28 billion in
cash, according to an Oct. 22 statement from the company.  The share swap between Rosneft and BP is akin to
privatization, Putin said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  