-- Rand Gains as 2015 Yields Fall on Gordhan Plan to Hold Spending
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-10-25T15:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/rand-gains-first-day-in-three-before-gordhan-s-mid-term-budget.html
The rand strengthened for the first
time in three days after South African Finance Minister  Pravin
Gordhan  outlined plans to restrain spending over the next three
years to help restore confidence in Africa’s largest economy.  The currency gained as much as 1.5 percent to 8.6540 per
dollar and was trading at 8.6934 as of 3:46 p.m. in
Johannesburg, the best performer of 16 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg. Yields on 13.5 percent bonds due September 2015
dropped two basis points to 5.45 percent, while rates on 6.75
percent securities due March 2021 rose three basis points to
6.67 percent as Gordhan said he will continue with a plan to
refinance short-term debt by selling longer-maturity bonds.  South Africa  didn’t raise three-year spending targets for
the first time since 1998, with Gordhan ordering government
departments to cut back on “wasteful” expenditure as rising
debt levels put the nation under increased scrutiny from rating
companies following the first downgrades since the end of
apartheid by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service.  “Hopefully the  ratings agencies  and foreign investors
watching it took it positively,”  Brigid Taylor , the head of
institutional flow sales at Johannesburg-based  Nedbank Group
Ltd. (NED) , said by phone. “It doesn’t change the fact that we are
walking quite a sensitive path and it’s going to require a lot
of buy-in from all stakeholders in order to get this right and
turn it around.”  Moody’s and  S&P (SPY)  cut their ratings one notch in the past
month, highlighting increased policy risks as the ruling African
National Congress pushes programs to address poverty and
unemployment. About 16 million people, or a third of the
population of 50.6 million, receive welfare grants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  