-- Rapeseed Imports by Japan Set for Record on Soy Substitution
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 2012-10-25T08:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/rapeseed-imports-by-japan-set-for-record-on-substitution-for-soy.html
Japan , Asia’s second-largest soybean
buyer, is poised to boost rapeseed imports to a record as a
rally in  Chicago  futures spurred oilseed crushers to seek
alternative supplies from Canada and Australia.  Purchases will probably climb to 2.4 million metric tons
this year, surpassing the 2.3 million-ton record set in 2010,
Yoshinori Komura, managing director at Japan Oilseed Processors
Association, said in an interview. Soybean imports may drop 4.6
percent to 2.7 million tons, the lowest in 43 years, according
to the Japan Oil & Fat Importers & Exporters Association.  Soybeans in Chicago, which rallied to a record $17.89 a
bushel on Sept. 4, have advanced 30 percent this year as the
worst U.S. drought in more than half a century scorched crops.
Japan’s food producers are seeking cheaper alternatives as they
face difficulties in passing on raw-material costs.  Canada , the
largest shipper, benefits from the shift in demand to rapeseed
and prices of the canola variety have advanced 18 percent this
year. The U.S. was the biggest soybean exporter last year.  “Japanese food makers are becoming more flexible in
choosing raw materials to curb costs as the global slowdown has
made it difficult for the nation to end deflation,” said Takaki Shigemoto, an analyst at research company JSC Corp. in Tokyo.
“Their search for affordable alternatives will continue.”  Nisshin Oillio (2602)   Both soybeans and rapeseed are crushed to produce cooking
oil and meal, a source of protein in livestock feed. Nisshin
Oillio Group Ltd.,  J-Oil Mills Inc. (2613)  and  Showa Sangyo Co. (2004)  are the
three-largest processors in Japan.  Demand for rapeseed meal from Japanese feed makers also
increased as a cheaper alternative to soybean meal, Komura said.
Soybean-meal futures in Chicago rallied to a record of $541.80
per 2,000 pounds on Sept 4, as drought reduced U.S. soy output.  Japanese demand for rapeseed also increased after soybean-
meal shipments from  India , the biggest supplier to Japan,
declined on rising demand from  Iran . U.S. and European sanctions
against Iran over its nuclear program spurred the Islamic nation
to seek alternative suppliers of the protein.  “Japanese crushers are running their rapeseed-processing
plants at almost full of their capacity, while idling about half
of their soybean capacity,” said Kazufumi Aramoto, secretary
general of the Japan Oil & Fat Importers & Exporters Association.  Japan’s rapeseed imports reached 1.58 million tons in the
first eight months of this year, climbing 1.6 percent from a
year earlier, according to the agriculture ministry. Of the
total, 1.51 million or 96 percent came from Canada.  Australia 
was the second-largest supplier with 64,873 tons.  In the same months Japan’s soybean imports declined 2.6
percent to 1.9 million tons. The U.S. was the biggest supplier
with 1.2 million tons, or 64 percent of the total volume,
followed by  Brazil  with 389,043 tons.  Rapeseed meal represented 4.7 percent of Japanese feed
output that reached 1.9 million tons in July, rising from 4.3
percent for last fiscal year, according to the agriculture
ministry. Soybean meal accounted for 12.5 percent of the feed
production in July, declining from 13.5 percent for the year
ended March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in  Tokyo  at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  