-- Raytheon Boosts 2012 Profit Forecast Citing Cost Cuts
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-10-25T13:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/raytheon-boosts-2012-profit-forecast-citing-cost-cuts.html
  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , the world’s largest
missile maker, boosted its full-year profit forecast and said
third-quarter profit rose less than 1 percent.  Profit from continuing operations for the year will be
$5.36 to $5.46 a share, up from an estimate of $5.15 to $5.30 a
share made in July, the Waltham, Massachusetts-based company
said today in a statement. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
projected a profit of $5.32 a share.  Raytheon’s performance rests on its “continued focus on
reducing cost and increasing productivity,” Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Bill Swanson said in the statement.  Income from continuing operations rose in the quarter to
$501 million, or $1.51 a share, from $498 million, or $1.42 a
share, a year earlier, Raytheon said. It exceeded the $1.27-a-
share  average estimate  of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Sales declined 1.2 percent to $6.05 billion.  Raytheon rose 1.5 percent to $55.97 in New York trading at
9:41 a.m. after gaining 14 percent this year.  Raytheon’s third-quarter adjusted operating margin of 13
percent has increased 0.8 percent this year compared with last
year, Dave Wajsgras, the company’s chief financial officer, said
in an interview.  Such margin increases should continue, “given the strong
cost reduction efforts under way and the high percentage of
fixed price contracts” at Raytheon that account for 56 percent
of sales, Doug Harned, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in New
York, wrote in a note to clients today. He has an “outperform”
rating on Raytheon.  Jobs Cut  Raytheon has let go about 3,000 employees workers this
year, half of them tied to work it lost on the Polar program for
the National Science Foundation, Wajsgras said. In December,
Lockheed won a $2 billion order to take over management of the
foundation’s research stations in the Antarctic.  Raytheon continues to hire new employees “particularly in
the cyber area, which is growing substantially” as well as for
air and missile defense systems and in classified programs,
Wajsgras said. Jon Kasle, a Raytheon spokesman, said he couldn’t
immediately say whether the company has had a net gain or loss
of jobs this year.  Bookings for classified U.S. government work accounted for
about $1 billion during the third quarter, Wajsgras said.
Bookings for such programs “are up close to 50 percent year-to-
date,” he said.  Patriot Missiles  Raytheon’s results were aided by increased sales and profit
in its integrated defense systems unit, which makes Patriot
anti-missile systems and early-warning radar, the company said.  Unlike many of his peers in the defense industry, Swanson
has steered away from supplying information-technology services
to the U.S. government because “during difficult times that’s
an area that faces tremendous compression,” as he put it at an
investors’ conference in September.  That was demonstrated yesterday, when  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) 
estimated its revenue will decline next year because of reduced
sales in its Information Systems & Global Solutions  unit, and
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  reported that revenue from such services
fell 9.2 percent in the third quarter.  Swanson has diversified his company’s products and
services, both in the U.S. and internationally, to weather U.S.
defense spending cuts that may reach $1 trillion over a decade.  Pentagon Cuts  The Pentagon plans to cut about $490 billion from planned
spending over a decade, and an additional $500 billion in
automatic defense cuts known as sequestration will go into
effect starting in January unless lawmakers and President  Barack Obama  agree on an alternative plan to pare the federal deficit.  Operating income at four of Raytheon’s six units increased
during the third quarter, according to the company.  The network-centric systems unit had the biggest declines
in sales and profit of 13 percent and 19 percent respectively.
The decrease stemmed mostly from weak orders by the U.S. Army,
the company said.  Buybacks this year reduced Raytheon’s average count of
shares outstanding at the end of the quarter by 5 percent to 333
million shares compared with the year-earlier period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  