-- Wheeler Favors Lower N.Z. Dollar Without Unorthodox Policies
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-10-26T04:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/rbnz-s-wheeler-says-central-bank-prepared-to-sell-currency.html
New Zealand’s new central bank
chief, in his inaugural  address , signaled he wants a weaker
currency without having to resort to unorthodox policy that may
disrupt his efforts to contain inflation.  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand “wishes to see a lower
exchange rate provided it can be achieved without damaging price
stability and financial stability,” Governor Graeme Wheeler
said today in a speech in Auckland. “There are clear limits to
what monetary policy and exchange-rate intervention can do to
lower the New Zealand dollar.”  Wheeler’s views underscore a challenge facing central
bankers in small, trade-dependent economies whose currencies are
elevated as investors seek returns unavailable from  Japan  to the
U.S. and  Europe , where interest rates are at or near record
lows. Even as New Zealand’s unemployment rate rises, growth
struggles to accelerate and inflation slows, the local dollar’s
5.3 percent gain this year makes it the best performer among the
Group of 10 currencies.  “The high New Zealand dollar is clearly worrying the
RBNZ,” Mark Smith, senior economist at ANZ Bank New Zealand
Ltd. in Wellington, said in an e-mailed note. Wheeler “is
realistic about the impact that domestic monetary policy can
achieve. Cash rate cuts to take pressure off the dollar are not
in prospect.”  Policy Outlook  The currency, which rose to a three-week high of 82.43
cents yesterday, fell after Wheeler’s speech, buying 81.77 cents
at 4:55 p.m. in Wellington. There is a 50 percent chance of a
rate cut by March, according to overnight indexed swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Wheeler today ruled out quantitative easing and explained
that rate cuts are unlikely to achieve a sustainably lower
exchange rate. Today’s speech was the former World Bank
official’s first since he took over from Alan Bollard in late
September.  Yesterday, he kept the official cash rate at a record-low
2.5 percent, forecasting that inflation will accelerate toward
the middle of the 1 percent to 3 percent range he is required to
target. The decision to pause helped boost the local dollar as
traders reduced bets he would cut borrowing costs.  All 17 economists in a Bloomberg News survey today predict
the cash rate will be unchanged at the next decision Dec. 6.
Thirteen forecast no change until the second half of 2013.  Trade Shortfall  Gains in the so-called kiwi have curbed manufacturers’
exports, limited investment in tourism and hurt the earnings of
companies that compete with cheaper imports, Wheeler said today.
The nation posted its widest trade deficit since 2009 in the
year ended Sept. 30 as exports fell to a 20-month low, a
government report showed today.  While Wheeler said the central bank is prepared to sell the
dollar, he reiterated there are conditions around intervention.
Those include a currency that’s historically and unjustifiably
high, and the central bank needs to be sure that the timing of
its sales will have an effect.  “Intervention is unlikely to have a sustained impact on
the currency but can have an impact in the short term if the
Reserve Bank makes the right calls,” he said. “We will remain
vigilant on these criteria and will be prepared to intervene if
all conditions are met.”  His comments echoed those of deputy Governor Grant Spencer
in a 2007 speech. The central bank last disclosed it sold the
currency in June 2007.  Union Pressure  Wheeler also downplayed the merits of cutting rates to
influence the currency, countering claims from the New Zealand
Council of Trade Unions that he should have lowered borrowing
costs yesterday.  “Reducing interest rates can at times reduce pressure on
the exchange rate but analysis of past OCR cuts in New Zealand
shows on average minimal or no intra-day impact on the exchange
rate, and even less impact on a weekly basis,” he said. “This
reinforces the idea that the exchange rate primarily reflects
returns in the broader economy rather than simply returns in the
money market.”  To achieve a long-lasting exchange rate decline, the nation
needs to tackle its “addiction of depending on foreign
savings” to finance consumption and investment, he said.  New Zealand doesn’t need quantitative easing, Wheeler said,
referring to central bank asset purchases. There is first scope
to cut borrowing costs if needed, he said. The central bank
doesn’t see merit in using monetary policy to achieve target
rates of economic growth, he said.  Macro-Prudential Tools  The nation’s monetary authority also wants to avoid relying
solely on interest rates to counter a housing boom by requiring
banks to adjust key balance sheet and loan ratios that may
contain their lending. The so-called macro-prudential tools will
reinforce the stance of monetary policy, Wheeler said.  An agreement between the central bank and the finance
minister is being discussed with the Treasury Department that
will confirm the guidelines for operating with such tools, he
said.  Consumer prices rose 0.8 percent in the year through
September, the slowest in more than 12 years and below the 1
percent to 3 percent range he targets.  A net 14.5 percent of companies expect to raise prices in
the next three months, the fewest in three years, according to
an ANZ survey of 468 firms published today. The net subtracts
those intending to lower prices from those planning increases.  Wheeler, 60, succeeded Bollard on Sept. 26, returning to
New Zealand after 15 years that included being co-managing
director of the World Bank from 2006 to 2010. Under New Zealand
law, the central bank governor alone makes the decision on
interest rates after taking advice from a staff panel that
doesn’t vote and doesn’t publish its minutes.  Before starting, he signed an agreement with Finance
Minister Bill English that included a requirement to focus on
keeping annual price changes near 2 percent to help anchor
inflation expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  