-- Treasuries Fall as Seven-Year Note Demand Is Least Since 2009
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-10-25T21:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/treasuries-remain-lower-after-29-billion-seven-year-note-sale.html
Treasuries declined after the U.S.
sale of $29 billion in seven-year notes drew of the least demand
since May 2009.  The current seven-year note yield reached two-month high as
the auction’s  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
2.56, compared with the average of 2.76 for the previous 10
sales. Benchmark 10-year  notes  dropped for a second day after
the  Federal Open Market Committee , in its last policy meeting
before the Nov. 6 presidential election, issued a statement
yesterday without saying whether it will continue with Treasury
purchases after the expiration of its so-called Operation Twist
in December.  “The seven-year note auction was a little softer than
average, which does underscore there is more pressure building
on the market,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate
strategist in New York at BNP Paribas SA, one of 21 primary
dealers required to bid at the auctions. “There is less scope
for a blow up in  Europe , the economy has improved some, and
there is a thought that if  Mitt Romney  wins yields will rise,
all of which threatens the recent range.”  The yield on the current  seven-year note  rose five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.26 percent at 5:02 p.m.
in New York trading, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 1 percent note maturing in September 2019 declined 10/32, or
$3.13 per $1,000 face amount, to 98 9/32.  Benchmark Yields  Benchmark 10-year note  yields  rose three basis points to
1.82 percent, and reached the highest level since Sept. 17.  Treasuries pared losses after two major technology
companies posted earnings that trailed forecast, raising concern
the economy may struggle to accelerate.  “Apple and Amazon both missed earnings, and that is not a
good sign as those are two important companies to gauge for the
health of the  U.S. economy , which gives a slight boost to the
Treasury market,” said Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government
trading at Guggenheim Partners LLC a New York-based brokerage
for institutional investors.  U.S. debt briefly pared losses earlier on speculation  Fitch
Ratings  would reduce its debt rating for the U.S. The company
reiterated later its negative outlook on the U.S.’s AAA credit
ranking is unlikely to change before late 2013, as it waits to
assess any deficit-reduction plans after the Nov. 6 elections.  Auction Results  The seven-year notes sold today drew a  yield  of 1.267
percent, compared with a forecast of 1.262 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of six of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21 primary
dealers.  “The securities cheapened up coming into the sale, and
there is still a lot of uncertainty,” said  William O’Donnell ,
head U.S. government bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , a
primary dealer.  Direct bidders , non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 18 percent of
the notes, the most since February and compared with an average
of 13.9 percent at the last 10 auctions.  Indirect bidders , an
investor class that includes foreign central banks, purchased
38.2 percent of the notes, compared with an average of 40.1
percent for the past 10 sales.  Seven-year notes have returned 3 percent this year,
compared with a 1.7 percent gain by the broader Treasuries
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The
seven-year securities returned 13.7 percent in 2011, while
Treasuries overall gained 9.8 percent.  Debt Sales  Today’s offering is the third of three note auctions
totaling $99 billion this week. The government sold $35 billion
of two-year debt on Oct. 23 at a yield of 0.295 percent and the
same amount of five-year securities yesterday at a yield of
0.774 percent.  Structural headwinds, the  budget deficit  and the fiscal
cliff will dominate the economic debate no matter who wins the
presidential election, said Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross .  “It means lower growth,” Gross, who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with  Betty Liu . “The structural
issues are really related to an excessive amount of debt, an
excessive amount of leverage that’s been built up over 10 or 20
years.”  Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
considered a proxy for future business spending, were little
changed last month after rising 0.2 percent in August, less than
previously estimated, a Commerce Department report showed today
in  Washington . Demand for all durable goods climbed 9.9 percent
last month, exceeding the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg and reflecting a rebound in airplane orders.  Economic Reading  “Those were a weak set of numbers,” said  David Ader , head
of U.S. government bond strategy at CRT Capital Group LLC in
Stamford, Connecticut. “It is contributing more to a depressed
willingness to buy strength than a desire to sell weakness.”  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 1.8 percent annual
rate in the third quarter after expanding at a 1.3 percent pace
the prior three months, the median economist estimate showed
before data from the Commerce Department tomorrow. That would be
the first back-to-back readings lower than 2 percent since the
U.S. was emerging from the recession in 2009.  The Fed said yesterday unemployment remains elevated as it
maintained $40 billion in monthly purchases of mortgage-backed
securities aimed at spurring the three-year expansion. The
central bank is swapping short-term Treasuries in its holdings
for longer-term securities, a program known as Operation Twist,
to cap yields as part of its efforts.  The Fed bought $4.74 billion of notes due from November
2020 to August 2022 today, according to the Fed Bank of  New
York ’s  website .  Yield Outlook  Ten-year yields will climb to 2.06 percent by June 30,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  Volatility  dropped  to 67 basis points yesterday, below this
year’s average of 72.4 basis points, according to the latest
data available from Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index,
which measures price swings based on options. It touched 57.5
basis points on Sept. 19, the least since May 7. The average
during the past decade is 99.6 basis points.  “Market technicals aren’t great for Treasuries right now
as we are near the high of the recent yield range and continue
to want to test it,” RBS’s O’Donnell said. “Part of that is
due to the potential that Romney might pull out the presidency,
which most people associate with higher yields and higher risk
markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  