-- U.S. 7-Year Notes Fall Before Auction; Fitch Unchanged
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-10-25T15:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/treasuries-stay-lower-before-durable-goods-orders.html
Treasury seven-year notes fell,
pushing its yield to a two-month high, before the U.S. sells $29
billion in seven-year notes.  U.S. debt  pared losses after  Fitch Ratings  reiterated its
negative outlook on the U.S.’s AAA credit ranking is unlikely to
change before late 2013, as it waits to assess any deficit-
reduction plans after the Nov. 6 elections. Treasuries fell for
a second day after the  Federal Open Market Committee  ended a
policy meeting yesterday without saying whether it will continue
with Treasury purchases after the expiration of its so-called
Operation Twist in December.  “The bullish backdrop is still in place, as there are
still a lot of headwinds to the global economy, you still have
the fiscal cliff and you still have  Europe  and the election even
as the Fed continues to buy Treasuries,” said Larry Milstein,
managing director in  New York  of government-debt trading at R.W.
Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors.  The current U.S. seven-year  yield  rose three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.24 percent at 11:46 a.m. New York
time, after reaching 1.28 percent, the highest since Aug. 21,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1 percent note
maturing in September 2019 declined 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000
face amount, to 98 14/32. Ten-year note yields added one basis
point to 1.80 percent after rising as much as seven basis
points.  Price Swings  Volatility  dropped  to 67 basis points yesterday, below this
year’s average of 72.4 basis points, according to the latest
data available from Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index,
which measures price swings based on options. It touched 57.5
basis points on Sept. 19, the least since May 7. The average
during the past decade is 99.6 basis points.  U.S. government securities due in 10 years and longer have
handed investors a 6.3 percent loss in the past three months,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.  The seven-year notes to be sold today yielded 1.25 percent
in pre-auction trading. The offering will be the last of three
note sales this week. The U.S. auctioned $35 billion of two-year
debt on Oct. 23 and the same amount of five-year securities
yesterday.  The Sept. 27 seven-year offering’s bid-to-cover ratio,
which gauges demand by comparing the amount bid with the amount
offered, was 2.61. The average for the past 10 auctions is 2.76.  Auction Data  Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 34.9 percent of the notes at the
September sale after purchasing 38.4 percent in August. The
average for the past 10 offerings is 40.1 percent.  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 17 percent of
the notes at the last sale, versus an average of 13.9 percent at
the past 10.  The seven-year auction “may thus be in a no-man’s land as
investors tighten up the ship before year-end,”  William O’Donnell , head U.S. government bond strategist at RBS
Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , one of 21 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed wrote in a note to clients.  The security cheapening against five- and seven-year notes
may pave the way for a strong auction, he added.  Bookings for non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft,
considered a proxy for future business spending, were little
changed after rising 0.2 percent in August, less than previously
estimated, a Commerce Department report showed today in
 Washington . Demand for all durable goods climbed 9.9 percent
last month, exceeding the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg and reflecting a rebound in airplane orders.  Economic Reading  “Those were a weak set of numbers,” said  David Ader , head
of U.S. government bond strategy at CRT in Stamford,
Connecticut. “It is contributing more to a depressed
willingness to buy strength than a desire to sell weakness.”  Fewer Americans filed first-time applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week as the seasonal volatility at
the start of the quarter wound down.  Jobless claims decreased by 23,000 to 369,000 in the week
ended Oct. 20 from a revised 392,000 the prior period, the Labor
Department reported today in Washington. The median forecast of
48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a drop in claims
to 370,000.  U.S. gross domestic product rose at a 1.9 percent annual
rate in the third quarter after expanding at a 1.3 percent pace
the prior three months, the median economist estimate showed
before data from the Commerce Department tomorrow. That would be
the first back-to-back readings lower than 2 percent since the
U.S. was emerging from the recession in 2009.  Fed View  The Fed said the economy is still growing modestly and
unemployment remains elevated as it maintained $40 billion in
monthly purchases of mortgage-backed securities aimed at
spurring the three-year expansion.  The central bank is swapping short-term Treasuries in its
holdings for longer-term securities to cap yields as part of its
efforts. The central bank bought $4.74 billion of notes due from
November 2020 to August 2022 today, according to the Fed Bank of
New York’s  website .  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, widened one basis point to 2.49 percentage points. The
average during the past decade is 2.17 percentage points.  Ten-year yields will climb to 2.06 percent by June 30,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  