-- Riksbank Signals More Easing in 2012 as Expansion Slows
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-10-25T08:23:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/riksbank-signals-more-easing-in-2012-as-expansion-slows-1-.html
Sweden ’s Riksbank kept  benchmark
interest rates  unchanged at their lowest level since early 2011
and said further easing has become more probable as growth slows
in the largest Nordic economy.  The repo rate was kept at 1.25 percent, the Stockholm-based
bank said in a statement today. The move was predicted by 16 of
the 19 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg , while the remainder
forecast a cut to 1 percent. The bank lowered its forecast for
the repo rate to an average 1.2 percent in the fourth quarter,
down from a 1.3 percent forecast in September.  “It’s now more probable that the repo rate will be cut
rather than being raised during the winter,” the bank said.
“Compared with the assessment in September, the repo rate is
expected to be raised at a later stage and at a slower pace.”  Policy makers in  Stockholm  have cut rates three times since
December to protect the largest Nordic economy from job losses
as Europe’s debt crisis undermines demand for exports. Yet
Governor Stefan Ingves said last week there are risks associated
with keeping rates too low and argued that there’s reason to be
concerned about imbalances fueled by credit growth.  The krona declined 0.1 percent to 8.6768 per euro as of
10:22 a.m. It traded as much as 0.5 percent higher against the
common currency before the decision.  Policy Mistake  Keeping rates unchanged today is “a policy mistake,” said
Michael Bostroem, chief analyst at Danske bank A/S in Stockholm.
“Apart from 2008, 2009 it’s hard to see a point where macro
data so clearly has indicated that there are reasons to cut the
rate, but I guess it comes down to the discussion that has been
put forward about households’ indebtedness that impedes
things.”  Swedish household borrowing growth picked up for the first
time in nearly two years in August, even as economic growth
slowed in the second quarter and seasonally-adjusted
 unemployment  rose 7.8 percent last month. Apartment prices have
risen more than 30 percent since 2007 following a boom in the
credit supply. Household debt has swelled to more than 170
percent of disposable incomes, from 90 percent in the mid-1990s.  Shown Resilience  “The Swedish economy has so far shown resilience to the
debt crisis in  Europe , but now Swedish exports are being clearly
damped by the weak activity in the euro area,” the Riksbank
said. “However, the consequences for the economy as a whole are
alleviated by households having relatively good purchasing
power. All in all, the Swedish economy is expected to develop in
the coming period largely as the Riksbank had forecast.”  Two of the Riksbank’s six policy makers, deputy governors
Karolina Ekholm and Lars E.O. Svensson, argued for a rate cut.
Ekholm wanted to cut rates to 1 percent while Svensson called
for a reduction to 0.75 percent.  Economists and trade unions have argued in favor of rate
cuts as Sweden’s $500 billion economy suffers slowing demand for
its  exports , which account for about half of its output. Growth
in Sweden was an annual 1.3 percent in the second quarter,
compared with an average of 4.3 percent since the start of 2010.
 Headline inflation  has also stayed below the Riksbank’s 2
percent target all year, slowing to 0.4 percent last month.  Swedish  manufacturing confidence  fell to its lowest level
in three years in October, the National Institute of  Economic
Research  said yesterday. Paper maker  Stora Enso Oyj (STERV)  this week
became the latest company to cut jobs, following similar
announcements by truck maker  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and phone company
 TeliaSonera AB. (TLSN)   “Today’s signal from the lowered rate path supports our
forecast of a rate cut by 25 basis points in December,” said
 Andreas Jonsson , an analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Stockholm, in a
note. “In our view it is a done deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  