-- Romney Said Share Class Was Favor to Staples Founder
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-10-26T15:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/romney-said-share-class-created-as-favor-staples-founder.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney , as a board member of Staples Inc., voted to set a
low price on the stock and create a new class of shares as a
“favor” to its co-founder who was involved in a divorce.  Romney, in testimony in 1991 in the divorce case of Staples
co-founder Tom Stemberg, said the special class of shares in the
office-supply retailer was created because Stemberg “needed a
settlement with his wife.”  The testimony, made public yesterday, deals with the
investment in Staples by  Bain Capital LLC , the private-equity
firm Romney co-founded. He addressed the valuation of the
company, the value of the stock Stemberg’s wife received in the
divorce settlement and his business relationship with Stemberg.  The testimony was released by  Massachusetts  Probate Judge
Jennifer Ulwick after a hearing in which Stemberg’s ex-wife
urged its disclosure, initially requested by the  Boston  Globe.
At a hearing in Canton, the judge said that while Romney’s
testimony would be released, a confidentiality agreement between
the ex-spouses remains in effect.  Gloria Allred , a women’s rights lawyer, appeared in court
with Stemberg’s ex-wife, Maureen Sullivan Stemberg, and said she
backed the Globe’s request to unseal the documents. She
criticized the decision to keep the confidentiality order in
place, saying her client wanted to talk about Romney’s
testimony.  Romney’s Lawyer  Asked for comment, Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for the
Romney campaign, referred to a statement from Romney’s lawyer,
 Robert Jones .  “These tabloid charges being shopped by Gloria Allred, one
of President Obama’s most prominent supporters, are absolutely
false,” Jones, a lawyer with Ropes & Gray LLP in Boston, said
yesterday in the statement. “Every time a court has reviewed
the allegations of her client over the past 24 years, they have
been rejected. There is no new information here.”  At the Republican national convention, Tom Stemberg, 63,
spoke on behalf of Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts,
who was given his party’s nomination for president in the Nov. 6
election against President  Barack Obama .  Stemberg is the co-founder and managing general partner of
Highland Consumer Fund, a venture capital fund that focuses on
retail and consumer service companies. It is affiliated with
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Highland Capital Partners LP.  Initial Investment  Framingham, Massachusetts-based Staples, now the largest
U.S. office-supply chain, grew with the help of Bain. Romney
said that when initially presented with the proposal for an
office-supply chain in about 1985, “I didn’t think it was a
very good idea,” according to the transcript. Later, he said,
he was “impressed with the quality of the thinking.”  Romney’s 1991 testimony came over several days during an
evidentiary hearing in probate court on a request by Stemberg’s
ex-wife to rescind her marital separation agreement.  Bain’s initial investment was 80 cents for each preferred
share, according to the transcript, or $1.5 million.  In September 1987, Staples’ board set a share price of 0.1
cent, according to the testimony. Romney, who was on the board,
testified that the stock may have been worth $1.30 at the time.  Joseph Walsh, the lawyer for Stemberg’s ex-wife, asked
Romney if, by setting such a low price, “you’re in any way
violating any fiduciary duty to your company?”  Romney answered, “I don’t believe so.”  ‘Worth More’  “It was my true belief that one could justify 1/10 of one
cent as the value of the common stock, but that the stock was
probably worth more than that,” Romney testified.  Romney valued the shares of Staples at about $1.50 to $2 a
share in late 1987 and early 1988. Bernard Dwork, a lawyer for
Tom Stemberg, said Stemberg’s wife negotiated a sale of her
shares during the same period at $2.25 to $2.48, according to
the transcript.  “In my opinion that’s a good price to sell the securities
at,” Romney testified.  Questioned about the valuations of several classes of
Staples stock at various times, Romney said, “I’m not great at
math when I’m on the stand.”  According to the transcript, Romney disagreed several times
with Stemberg about valuations of the company. Offerings of
Class B and C shares were made at $2.10 and $2.90 a share,
respectively, and in both cases Romney said he thought those
prices were too high.  ‘Your View’  “If the company had followed your view they would have
ended up with a lower per share price than the market cleared,
right?” Dwork asked Romney.  “That’s correct,” he replied.  “And although you told him you thought he was wrong, he
was right, wasn’t he?” Dwork said.  “That’s correct,” Romney answered.  The testimony shows that in 1987 Sears expressed interest
in buying Staples. Bain proposed a $100 million sale price,
Romney said. Sears’s response was $40 million and a deal wasn’t
pursued.  While considering a possible Sears offer, Staples valued
the company at $100 million to $130 million, or about $6 to
$7.50 a share. Romney said “the dream was that we would be
public someday” at $6 to $7 a share. He said Stemberg told the
board it shouldn’t accept less than $7.50 a share in a buyout.
Romney testified that he “would have been willing to accept a
good deal less.”  ‘The Future’  Romney was asked whether Stemberg had told the directors to
“look to the future and not to the present value” of the
shares. He replied that although he didn’t recall Stemberg
saying that, future value “is clearly how we value a
business.”  Staples had its initial public offering of stock in April
1989. Shares were priced at $19 each, or 74 cents after
adjusting for eight stock splits, the company said on its
website.  Bain typically sought a 10-to-1 return on its investment in
startups over five years, Romney said. That worked out to a
58.5 percent “internal rate of return,” he said.  Romney also said that a new class of preferred shares was
created specifically for Stemberg.  “It was initiated as a favor,” Romney testified. “Tom
needed to have a settlement with his wife.” Romney said
creating the new shares wasn’t his idea.  ‘Potential Lawsuit’  Romney was asked whether there “could be a potential
lawsuit by common  shareholders  for suddenly inserting for the
benefit of Mr. Stemberg” a class of new shares that had
preference over common shares.  “There was a discussion as to what was in the best
interests of the common shareholders as well as the other
shareholders,” Romney testified. “A specific discussion of a
potential lawsuit I don’t recall being raised.”  The testimony also includes Romney’s criticism of Staples’
operational  performance  in its earliest years. Romney said a
particular concern was the amount of time shoppers had to wait
in line.  “I was shopping there myself and found it a frustrating
experience,” he said.  He said there had been a disagreement with Stemberg about
the need to hire a chief operating officer.  Tom Stemberg’s lawyer, Brian Leary, told the judge
yesterday that Romney’s statements were a “primer” on Staples’
early development. Lisa Arrowood, a lawyer for Staples, said the
company didn’t oppose the release of Romney’s testimony.  Gag Order  Allred opposed a confidentiality order that was left in
place, telling the judge she wants her client to be able to talk
about Romney’s testimony.  “She needs to be able to speak,” Allred said. “She
apparently is the only person in the U.S., maybe in the world,
who cannot speak about  Governor Romney .”  The judge said Maureen Sullivan Stemberg could file a new
motion to modify the gag order in the case. Allred said it was
“the most comprehensive gag order I have ever seen in my 36
years of practicing law.”  Allred declined to comment further on the case after
yesterday’s hearing.  Allred’s clients have included Sharon Bialek, the woman who
accused  Herman Cain , a Republican candidate for president, of
sexual harassment, which led to his withdrawal from the race.  She also represented Jodie Fisher, who said former  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ)  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Hurd  made improper
sexual advances toward her while she was under contract to
handle company events. Hurd resigned from Hewlett-Packard in
2010 after it found he had violated company conduct standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in  New York  at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  