-- Romney, Obama Avoid Climate Change Stigma, Waste Air
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-10-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/romney-obama-avoid-climate-change-stigma-waste-air.html
The cringe-inducing catfight about
oil drilling in the second presidential debate reminded us how
carefully both candidates have avoided the topic of  climate
change .  Those two words weren’t mentioned once, unlike “gas” (30
times). The candidates touched on oil and gas policy in the
third debate, but without voicing any concerns about the fact
that fossil fuels produce greenhouse-gas emissions.  That’s because well-financed voices with a big stake in
America’s wasteful status quo have successfully stigmatized
global warming.  President  Barack Obama  pushes an “all of the above”
strategy that includes increasing domestic extraction of oil,
gas and coal, along with generous incentives for nuclear
(tainted, thanks to the Fukushima disaster) and for renewables
like wind and solar.  That allows Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  to bring up the
half-billion-dollar federal investment in the failed Solyndra
LLC solar producer. He correctly points out that these
renewables are very expensive and won’t replace much
conventional energy in the short term.  Dirtiest Coal  Romney promotes “clean coal,” a product that doesn’t
exist. The president, meanwhile, failed to defend his own
Environmental Protection Agency, which has taken the belated
step of trying to rein-in the dirtiest coal plants.  While Romney touts his business expertise, he plans to
repeal the laws of supply and demand. For example, he wants
“energy independence.” But America exports oil as well as
imports it, and the global market is setting the price, not the
president. (That’s why gas is near records even as U.S.
production has grown.)  When America continues to use about one fourth of the
world’s oil output, it is vulnerable to supply and price
gyrations, whether from  Iran ’s saber rattling or the galloping
appetite for energy of China and  India .  Greenhouse Gases  Romney says he could be “Mr. Oil, Mr. Gas, Mr. Coal.” He
would accelerate U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions (which have
declined a bit). The evidence grows more solid every day that we
must cut them substantially.  How many fish and shellfish populations must die due to
carbon-induced ocean acidity? How many forests must succumb to
pests unleashed by warmer winters? How many agricultural regions
must fail? How many low-lying cities must flood?  Yet solutions are staring us in the face:  energy efficiency 
and conservation.  Buildings create 40 percent of U.S. greenhouse gasses. Even
in a political environment hostile to conservation, the greenest
buildings typically deploy two dozen energy-saving tactics to
affordably cut energy use by 50 percent or more. (Buildings can
achieve “net zero” energy use by adding wind or solar, but
typically at much higher cost.)  Conservation isn’t as sexy as solar because it’s not a
magic bullet. You squeeze out wasteful energy use in all kinds
of ways.  Efficient Architecture  Architects shape the building to avoid drawing in too much
heat from the sun (essentially free). Builders seal gaps around
doors (almost free). Exterior wall specialists install automated
systems to open windows and switch off lights as weather permits
(trading upfront dollars for a hefty payback).  Green buildings mainstream innovation in windows, glass,
mechanical systems, lighting, sensors, insulation, control
systems and more, all of which can provide jobs.  Government policies can inspire conservation-focused
building-industry transformation without having to place all the
incentives in one Solyndra-style basket.  Auto efficiency is another bright spot. Transportation
accounts for 33 percent of U.S. emissions. Already you can buy a
40 mpg conventionally powered auto that’s no austere econobox.
People are flocking to high-mileage vehicles, taking charge of
their energy expenditures rather than expecting the federal
government to do it.  Starved Transit  Which brings me to transit and the ongoing lust for highway
building.  Dense city and suburban downtowns lower energy use and
nurture the deep collaborations demanded by today’s business
complexity. These links can’t develop when workplaces must
isolate themselves in acres of parking.  We could dramatically cut  carbon emissions  by shifting more
freight from overburdened highways to a rationalized, updated
national freight network. That’s not even on the political radar
screen.  Conservation continues to be treated condescendingly by the
entire political class because too few people know how far it
has come -- and what vast potential can be unleashed with
incentives and applied research.  America does little to make conservation appealing.
Government policy long ago chose “winners,” and they are coal,
gas, and oil.  Ghost Towns  Along with well-documented direct subsidies, these
industries get to pass on to everyone the cost of pollution,
land despoliation, greenhouse-gas emissions, price volatility
and the political and military complications of sourcing oil
from countries that are not our friends.  If the drilling boom keeps moving from place to place,
taxpayers will foot the bill for 21st-century ghost towns.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of  Bloomberg News . He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in  New York  at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 