-- Russia Stocks Snap 2 Days of Losses on Crude Gains, U.S.
-- B y   A l e x   N i c h o l s o n   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-10-25T16:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/russia-stocks-snap-2-days-of-losses-on-crude-gains-u-s-.html
(Corrects index move in second paragraph.)  Russian stocks  slid for the third
day as crude oil and other commodities declined, damping the
appetite outlook for producers.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slipped 0.4 percent to 1,446 by the 6:45
p.m. close in Moscow. Federal Grid Co., the Russian monopoly for
high-voltage transmission, slipped 3.8 percent. Mining company
OAO  Mechel (MTLR)  dropped 2 percent and OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s biggest
oil producer, declined 1.1 percent.  Oil for December delivery fell 7 cents to $85.66 a barrel
in New York, erasing an earlier gain of as much as 1.2 percent.
Crude and gas account for about 50 percent of state revenue in
Russia, the world’s biggest energy exporter. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials lost 0.4 percent,
dropping for a fourth day.  “Russia remains recidivist underperformer despite overall
rosy hue due to reporting season,” Julian Rimmer, a trader of
Russian stocks at CF Global Trading, wrote in e-mailed comments.  U.S. stocks advanced, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index up from the lowest level in seven weeks, amid better-than-
estimated corporate earnings by Procter & Gamble Co., the
world’s largest consumer-products and Aetna Inc., the third-
biggest U.S. health insurer.  The Micex trades at 5.6 times  estimated earnings  after
gaining 3.1 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has added 9
percent. Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nicholson in Moscow at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  