-- MTS Premium Shrinking as Moscow Remakes Market: Russia Overnight
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2012-10-26T12:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/mts-premium-shrinking-as-moscow-remakes-market-russia-overnight.html
The  premium  investors demand to hold
OAO Mobile TeleSystems’ New York-traded shares rather than the
stock in Moscow is narrowing to the smallest in almost a year on
Russian plans to improve local settlement rules.  The  mobile company  has climbed 0.3 percent on Moscow’s
Micex Index this month to 229.70 rubles, or $7.30, while its
 American depositary receipts  fell 2.9 percent, shrinking the gap
to $1.89 this week, the least since Nov. 20. The premium was as
high as $4.17 on Sept. 13. The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN) 
of the most-traded Russian stocks in the U.S. added 0.2 percent
yesterday, and  RTS Index futures  climbed, as crude rose for the
first time in six days.  Russia  is combining its two securities depositaries into
one central body in order to bring settlement procedures in line
with international norms and help lure foreign investments. The
average value of shares traded in Russia’s biggest companies is
30 percent higher in  London  than in Moscow, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “When a single central depositary starts operating, the
attractiveness of the Russian market will increase,” Alexander Vengranovich, a telecommunications analyst at Otkritie Financial
Corp. in Moscow, said by phone yesterday. “Some investors are
buying shares ahead of the implementation.”  Futures expiring in December on the dollar-denominated RTS
gauge increased 0.2 percent to 145,350 in  New York  yesterday.
The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded exchange-
traded fund that holds Russian shares, gained 0.5 percent to
$28.41, rising for the first time in two days.  The RTS Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in
the gauge futures, advanced 1.2 percent to 25.38 points.  Widest Premium  ADRs of Moscow-based MTS added 0.4 percent in New York
yesterday to $17.01 after Russia’s largest mobile services
operator said it offered to buy 25 percent of MTS-Bank from
parent company AFK Sistema for 5.09 billion rubles ($162
million). MTS’ Moscow-traded shares slipped 0.8 percent today as
the Micex dropped to a seven-week low.  The ADRs, which account for two underlying shares, traded
at a premium of $2.21 yesterday, the widest among the 11 biggest
dually traded companies.  The central depositary is on track to be established by
next month,  Dmitry Pankin , the head of the market regulator,
told reporters in Moscow on Oct. 24.  Russia currently has two competing depositaries which leads
to the share ownership structures of companies traded in Moscow
being “not fully transparent,” Otkritie’s Vengranovich said.
Depositaries, or clearing agencies, ensure money is paid or
debited and securities ownership is transferred after a trade
occurs.  ‘Marginal Benefit’  As part of its reforms, the Micex-RTS is also transitioning
by next year to a system where traders are allowed a number of
days to complete deals, instead of the current procedure of
immediate settlement. All U.S. exchanges offer settlement the
third day after the trade occurs.  “People don’t like pre-funding for the  Micex (INDEXCF)  or having to
keep their stock there, it’s a major deterrent to most funds,”
Julian Rimmer, a trader at CF Global in London who focuses on
Russian and Turkish equities, said by e-mail yesterday. The
introduction of a central depositary is “a marginal benefit,
but the aggregation of marginal benefits is what it takes to
eliminate Russia’s discount versus other  emerging markets .”  Boost Volumes  The Micex has gained 2.1 percent in 2012 and trades for 5.6
times analysts’ earnings estimates for member companies. That
compares with a 1.2 percent advance for  Brazil ’s  Bovespa Index (IBOV) ,
which is valued at 15 times estimated earnings, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Bovespa, which also allows
settlement on the third day, had four times more volume than the
Micex yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The move to so-called T+3 settlement will boost volumes on
Russia’s stock market by as much as 25 percent, Oleg Achkasov,
head of equity trading at VTB Capital, the investment banking
arm of Russia’s second-largest lender, said in an interview in
Moscow on Oct. 3.  The  Federal Financial Markets Service  may also lift
restrictions on converting local shares into depositary
receipts, the Interfax newswire reported on Oct. 19, citing
Pankin. Under current regulations, depositary receipts can only
account for 25 percent of a company’s total shares and 50
percent of its listed shares, according to the Interfax report.  Russia’s reforms “should help eliminate all depositary
receipt premia over time,” CF Global’s Rimmer said.  MegaFon Spurs Yandex  Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s most-used Internet search engine,
jumped 3.5 percent in New York yesterday to $22.74, the biggest
one-day advance since Sept. 12.  The delay in an initial public offering set for Oct. 22 of
OAO MegaFon, a Russian wireless carrier, has bolstered The
Hague, Netherlands-based Yandex as investors are looking to put
money allocated for the IPO into “solid companies,” Simon Mandel, director of emerging Europe equity sales at Auerbach
Grayson & Co. in New York, said by phone yesterday.  Crude for December delivery added 0.4 percent to $86.05 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday, while
Brent oil gained 0.6 percent to $108.49 a barrel. Speculation
the  Bank of Japan  will add to its asset-purchase program and
that U.S. data will signal a recovery in the world’s biggest
economy bolstered energy prices.  Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, climbed for the
first time in eight days, rising 0.8 percent to $107.39.  Futures due in December on the ruble were little changed at
31.586 per dollar in New York yesterday. The currency slipped
0.3 percent to 31.4649 per dollar in Moscow, the weakest level
since Sept. 12.  Moscow-based United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum
producer, dropped 2.4 percent to HK$4.40, or 57 U.S. cents, in
 Hong Kong  today. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index tumbled 1.1
percent, the steepest one-day drop since Sept. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  