-- San Bernardino Bankruptcy Invalid, Employees Union Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-10-25T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/san-bernardino-bankruptcy-invalid-employees-union-says.html
San Bernardino, the second-largest
U.S. city to enter Chapter 9 bankruptcy, should have its court
restructuring dismissed because it failed to follow a state law
requiring negotiations with creditors before seeking court
protection, a government employees union said.  The San Bernardino Public Employees Association objected to
the  California  city’s bankruptcy case saying it was improperly
filed because it bypassed a new law that mandated municipalities
engage in a “neutral evaluation” process with debt holders for
60 days, in an attempt to reach a resolution out of court.  “Rather than attempting a good faith adjustment of its
debts and obligations, the city’s petition seeks one purpose
only -- to avoid and /or delay its obligations and debts owed a
single class of creditors, its current and former public
employees,” the union said in court papers filed yesterday, the
last day to oppose the bankruptcy.  Paul R. Glassman, a lawyer representing San Bernardino,
didn’t immediately return a phone call yesterday seeking comment
on the objection.  The  California Public Employees’ Retirement System , which
said it’s the city’s biggest creditor, also filed an objection
yesterday.  Eligibility Requirements  “At this point in the case, it is impossible to determine
whether the city meets the eligibility requirements of Chapter 9
because, despite its previous promises, the city has failed to
provide interested parties with reliable financial information
and a purported plan upon which to evaluate the City’s
legitimate desire to effect a plan of adjustment,” Calpers said
in a court filing.  The city in July declared a fiscal emergency, an exception
to the California law that it claims allowed it to skirt
negotiations, because it wouldn’t be able to pay its obligation
within the next 60 days and it financial situation would put
residents at risk.  San Bernardino realized in late June it “was fast
approaching the edge of a massive fiscal cliff with no viable
way to raise revenue and cut spending fast enough to avoid
falling off the edge,” and therefore announced the fiscal
emergency to provide essential service to its citizens, it said
in court papers filed Aug. 31 supporting its filing.  While the city claims that its late recognition of its
financial situation necessitated the emergency declaration,
“facts show that if the city was blind to its fiscal reality,
such blindness was willful,” the union argued in court papers.  San Bernardino filed for municipal bankruptcy Aug. 1, the
third California city since June, after disclosing a $46 million
shortfall in its budget. The city of 209,000 about 60 miles (97
kilometers) east of  Los Angeles , listed assets and debt of more
than $1 billion in a filing with the  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Riverside, California.  The case is In re San Bernardino, 12-28006, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  