-- Sandvik Lowers Production as Toolmaker’s Demand Weakens
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-10-25T10:56:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/sandvik-lowers-production-as-toolmaker-s-demand-weakens-1-.html
Sandvik AB (SAND) , the world’s biggest
maker of metal-cutting tools, said it will cut production and
search for more cost savings in response to weak demand.  Reductions will affect the materials technology,
construction and machining solutions divisions, the manufacturer
said today in a statement, without giving details on how much it
will lower output. The Swedish company also reported third-
quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates.  “The biggest difference in the market is the change in the
 mining industry  from strong growth to a more tentative stance,”
Chief Executive Officer Olof Faxander said in an interview.
“The weakening trend has continued into the fourth quarter”
and the company is “continuously looking” at responses such as
eliminating temporary jobs.  Sandvik began a review of its organization last year aimed
at boosting profitability under Faxander, who joined from
Swedish steelmaker SSAB in February 2011. The manufacturer has
trimmed its workforce this year to focus resources on more
profitable operations.  Third-quarter net income rose to 2.1 billion kronor ($315
million) from 626 million kronor a year earlier, the Stockholm-
based company said today in a statement. Analysts expected
profit of 2.25 billion kronor, according to the average of 11
estimates  gathered  by Bloomberg. Sales declined 0.4 percent to
23.4 billion kronor.  In-Line Orders  “Order intake in machining solutions and mining, while
weak, came in line with our expectations,” Lars Brorson, an
 analyst  at DNB Bank ASA in  London  with a hold recommendation on
the stock, said by phone. “A lot of peers, certainly in the
Nordic capital goods sector, have lowered production levels and
taken out inventories in the quarter.”  Sandvik shares  rose  1.4 percent to 90.10 kronor as of 12:33
p.m. in Stockholm after declining as much as 2.6 percent earlier
in the day. The stock has gained 6.8 percent this year, giving
the company a market value of 113 billion kronor.  “Exactly how we lower production in the fourth quarter
will depend on how the market develops,” Faxander said in the
interview.  The number of employees has declined 1.6 percent so far
this year to 49,251 at the end of September, even as Sandvik
acquired Seco Tools AB in a purchase completed in March. Most
job cuts have occurred in  Sweden , while Sandvik has hired
workers in growth markets, he said.  Seeking Clarity  Martin Prozesky, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in
London with an outperform rating on Sandvik shares, said he
expects “further adjustments” in the mining and machining
solutions divisions over coming quarters and that he would like
clarity from the company about “timing on when further
restructuring will be announced.”  Swedish mining-equipment rival  Atlas Copco AB (ATCOA)  reported
yesterday that third-quarter net income fell to 3.48 billion
kronor from 3.6 billion kronor, beating estimates on “healthy”
North American demand.  Currency effects, declining metal prices and more
maintenance work hurt Sandvik’s bottom line, the company said.
Sandvik moved its headquarters from the town of Sandviken to the
Swedish capital this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  