-- Sanofi Narrows Full-Year Forecast as Quarterly Profit Drops
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-10-25T16:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/sanofi-narrows-full-year-forecast-as-quarterly-profit-drops-1-.html
Sanofi (SAN)  reported third-quarter profit
that fell less than analysts estimated and said earnings may
drop less than previously forecast this year.  Business net income, meaning earnings excluding some costs,
fell 7.4 percent to 2.22 billion euros ($2.88 billion), or 1.68
euros a share, in the quarter, from 2.4 billion euros, or 1.79
euros a share, a year earlier, Paris-based Sanofi said in an e-
mailed statement today. That exceeded the 2.01 billion-euro
 estimate  of 14 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  France ’s largest drugmaker, which faces generic competition
to three crucial drugs, expects profit to drop about 12 percent
at constant exchange rates this year. Previously it had forecast
a decline of between 12 percent and 15 percent.  “The long-expected impact of generic competition is having
its way but we are really seeing a light at the end of the
tunnel,” Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said on a
conference call today.  Viehbacher has been cutting costs and resorting to
acquisitions to make up for generic competition to Sanofi’s
best-sellers. The blood thinner Plavix lost U.S. market
exclusivity on May 17. Generic competition to Plavix and the
hypertension medicine Avapro wiped out 469 million euros of
profit there last quarter, Sanofi said. Cheaper copies of its
drugs also shaved 448 million euros off sales, mainly due to
competition to the cancer drug Eloxatin.  Plavix Slumps  Sanofi shares  gained  1.4 percent, to 67.04 euros in Paris
trading, giving the drugmaker a market value of 89 billion
euros. Through yesterday, the stock  returned  38 percent over the
past year including reinvested dividends, beating the 29 percent
increase of the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   The quarter was “good” for Sanofi, “with raised 2012
guidance,”  Tim Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in  New York , wrote in note to investors.  Net sales slipped 3.1 percent to 9.04 billion euros at
constant exchange rates, beating analysts’ estimates.  Overall revenue from Plavix, which includes non-
consolidated sales from U.S. partner Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.,
plunged 70 percent to 568 million euros at constant exchange
rates, led by a 98 percent decline in the U.S. Avapro retreated
84 percent to 16 million euros there.  Eloxatin sales fell 58 percent to 129 million euros during
the quarter.  ‘Growth Trajectory’  The three months ended on Sept. 30 were “the first full
quarter with all three major patent expiries in 2012,” Stephen McGarry, an analyst at  Societe Generale  in  London , wrote in a
note to clients yesterday. This year “represents the trough
year for Sanofi’s earnings.”  Sales from the Lantus diabetes treatment surged 32 percent
to 1.28 billion euros, led by gains in the U.S.,  emerging
markets  and  Japan , Sanofi said. Lantus faces competition from
 Novo Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) ’s new insulin Tresiba, which was approved in
Japan last month and won backing from a European Union advisory
panel on Oct. 19. The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  will
hold an advisory committee meeting on Nov. 8 to discuss Tresiba.  The outcome of the FDA panel meeting will be “more
important” than today’s results for Sanofi, Richard Vosser and
other analysts at JPMorgan wrote in an Oct. 23 note to clients.
The FDA committee’s ruling “could increase confidence in Lantus
sales going forward, should Tresiba face a delay.”  Sales of Fabrazyme, a treatment for a rare illness known as
Fabry’s disease that Sanofi gained through last year’s purchase
of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme, showed a “strong
recovery” in the third quarter, surging 172 percent to 87
million euros. Revenue from the newly-reorganized Genzyme rose
31 percent to 470 million euros.  Sales from vaccines and animal health products both
advanced 10 percent in the period, Sanofi said.  “Our growth platforms continue to build steam,”
Viehbacher told reporters today. “This is what we believe will
put Sanofi back in the growth trajectory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  