-- Santander U.K. Writes Off $83.5 Million on Scrapped RBS Deal
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-10-25T07:25:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/santander-u-k-writes-off-83-5-million-on-scrapped-rbs-deal-1-.html
Banco Santander SA’s (SAN)  U.K. division
said it made a provision of 52 million pounds ($83.5 million) to
write off costs related to the Spanish lender’s abandoned deal
to acquire branches from Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.  The decision “was due to the ongoing delays and our
concern that the continued uncertainty regarding timing was not
in the best interests of customers and staff,” Ana Botin, chief
executive officer of the U.K. unit, said in an e-mailed
statement of the division’s results today.  Santander, which pulled out of the agreement to buy 316
branches from RBS this month, is among Spanish banks facing
pressure to increase capital amid mounting real estate losses at
home and pain from the three-year-old euro-area sovereign debt
crisis. Santander had agreed in 2010 to pay 350 million pounds
more than the branches’ net asset value when the transaction was
scheduled to be completed, Edinburgh-based  RBS (RBS)  said at the time.
That valued the business at about 1.7 billion pounds.  Since then, Santander, Spain’s biggest bank, has sought
ways to increase capital. It carried out an offering of as much
as $4.09 billion in shares of its Mexican unit  Grupo Financiero (BSMX) 
Santander Mexico SAB last month.  The Spanish bank earlier today said third-quarter profit
dipped a greater-than-estimated 94 percent as it purged more
soured real estate.  Santander’s acquisitions in the U.K. include Abbey
National, Alliance & Leicester and parts of Bradford & Bingley
Plc. It now has about 1,200 branches and is the second-largest
mortgage lender behind  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)   To prepare for the now-scrapped RBS deal, “a considerable
investment was made in building the infrastructure and product
range required to become a full-scale retail and commercial
bank,” Santander said today. “This work will continue to
support our longer-term strategic goals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  