-- HSBC Bets on Bonds, Loans in Russia After Selling Consumer Unit
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-10-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/hsbc-bets-on-bonds-loans-in-russia-after-selling-consumer-unit.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  is focusing on
organizing Russian debt sales and providing loan financing and
export credit a year after selling its consumer business in
Russia, according to its local chief executive officer.  “We came to the market too late and in too small a size”
as a consumer bank, Mark Stadler, 52, said in an interview
yesterday in his Moscow office. “If we had made the investment
a decade or 15 years ago, it might have been a very different
story. The focus has shifted, and it’s now being a network bank,
which is to link Russian corporates looking out and
multinationals looking in.”  Europe ’s largest bank was hired this month by Russian
lenders OAO Sberbank, OAO Gazprombank and Home Credit & Finance
Bank to arrange $3.5 billion in debt sales. London-based HSBC
has a 50 percent share of the export credit market in Russia
this year by number of deals, according to the bank.  HSBC, along with Barclays Plc and  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , are
among international lenders that abandoned  consumer banking  in
Russia over the past two years as state-controlled Sberbank and
VTB Group increased market share. Nomos Bank, Russia’s second-
biggest privately owned bank, is being acquired by Otkritie
Financial Corp, part-owned by VTB.  HSBC in March 2008 announced a $200 million capital
injection into its Russian unit that “demonstrated” its long-
term commitment to the nation, ex-Russia CEO Stuart Lawson said
then. Six months later, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed,
triggering a global market rout as credit markets froze.  Third CEO  The bank had four branches in Moscow and one in St.
Petersburg and had been building local  wealth management  and
ruble-bond-trading operations. Its loan book was sold to
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  in June 2011 and the branches to Sberbank that
September, according to HSBC.  Stadler was named CEO of HSBC’s Russia unit in May, the
bank’s third local head since 2010. He succeeded Huseyin Ozkaya,
who replaced Lawson. The British-born Stadler, who doesn’t speak
Russian, had moved to  London  this year from Dubai to run private
banking in the U.K. and was previously global market head of
 HSBC Private Bank  in the  Middle East  and North Africa.  “State banks here are formidable competitors, and we are
used to that experience in other parts of the world with China
and India being obvious examples,” Stadler said.  HSBC, which generates most of its profit in  Asia , is
planning to sell 10 billion rubles ($333 million) in its first
Russian debt issue to diversify funding and to meet demand by
international clients operating in Russia, Stadler said.  IPO Pulled  The bank, which has more than 270 employees in Moscow and
 St. Petersburg , is the 10th largest organizer of foreign debt in
Russia this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. HSBC
was also hired by OAO Promsvyazbank to help it sell shares in an
initial public offering. The IPO was postponed on Oct. 15, and
HSBC is looking at alternatives for Promsvyazbank to raise
capital, such as selling subordinated debt, Stadler said.  “We have seen at first hand the clear preference by
investors to take credit rather than equity risk,” he said.
“The Promsyvazbank IPO, which we were a lead on, was pulled
because investor pricing requirements were not in line with the
bank’s view on valuation.”  HSBC is “looking again” at  Russia ’s privatization program
after not applying to the Kremlin to be an adviser, Stadler
said. Twenty-three domestic and foreign banks were chosen to
advise the government on its 1 trillion rubles of asset sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  