-- Schneider Cuts 2012 Sales Goal as Revenue Misses Estimates
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-10-25T10:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/schneider-cuts-2012-sales-goal-as-revenue-misses-estimates-2-.html
Schneider Electric SA (ALO) , the world’s
biggest maker of low- and medium-voltage equipment, cut its
target for 2012 revenue and said it may step up restructuring as
austerity measures deepen  Europe ’s economic slump.  Revenue rose 7.1 percent in the third quarter to 6.1
billion euros ($7.92 billion), the company, based near Paris,
said in a statement today. The figure missed analysts’
 estimates , and Schneider abandoned a target for “flat to
slightly positive” organic sales growth in 2012, predicting
instead a “flat to slightly negative” business.  “Western Europe has been difficult in the third quarter,”
Chief Financial Officer Emmanuel Babeau said in an interview.
The company may lift its 2012 target for restructuring costs
such as site regroupings and product redesign, initially set at
about 150 million euros, by “several tens of millions,” he
said.  Schneider, which spent $3.8 billion in 2011 on
acquisitions, is stepping up an overhaul amid a “more
pronounced slowdown” in parts of Europe and a delayed rebound
in  China .  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , Schneider’s Swiss rival, also indicated
today it’s seeing increased signs of an economic slowdown.  The stock rose as much as 72 cents, or 1.5 percent, to
49.23 cents in Paris trading. They traded at 48.91 euros as of
11:53 a.m., giving the company a market value of 27.1 billion
euros.  Dividend Payout  Schneider may have to book a one-time non-cash charge of
100 million euros to 200 million euros on the assets of its
building division, which would reflect weaker-than-expected
prospects at its video-surveillance unit, the CFO said. The 2012
dividend, based on a policy of a 50 percent payout of net
income, may be “adjusted to neutralize the impact of this
potential charge,” the company said.  “The decrease in government spending in the U.K., the U.S.
and Nordic countries has affected our building business,” the
CFO said on a call with analysts.  Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg projected 6.15 billion euros
in revenue for the third quarter. Excluding acquisitions and
exchange rate fluctuations, sales fell 1.9 percent, the first
organic drop since the last three months of 2009, with fewer
working days accounting for about 1 percent in the decline.  More Deals  Schneider’s like-for-like sales in Western Europe fell 8
percent in the third quarter. On that basis, sales in  France 
fell more than 10 percent as builders and manufacturers adopted
a wait-and-see attitude on investment after the government
raised taxes, Babeau said. Sales were stable in  Germany , turned
negative in the U.K., and continued to drop at “ strong double-
digit” pace in Spain and  Italy , he said.  Net acquisitions added 146 million euros to third-quarter
sales, and the appreciation of currencies such as the dollar and
the  yuan  against the euro added another 372 million euros.  Schneider continues to look for acquisitions and still
prefers small and medium-sized acquisitions, the CFO said. The
company is also capable of large deals, Babeau said, citing the
$6 billion purchase of American Power Conversion Corp. in 2006
that was among Schneider’s “most successful.”  The company is “well on track” to reach its goal for an
adjusted margin on earnings before interest, taxes, and
amortization of 14 percent to 15 percent in 2012 as the company
cuts costs to mitigate the impact of rising raw-material prices
and more sales of systems and services that have lower margins
than products, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Pascal Tricoire said
in the release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  