-- Scottish Companies Seek Answers Elsewhere on Independence
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d   a n d   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2012-10-25T13:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/scottish-companies-seek-answers-elsewhere-on-independence.html
Scottish companies say they’re
turning to  London  and Brussels rather than Edinburgh for answers
about the costs and economic risks of independence.  The agreement last week between U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  to hold a
referendum on going it alone is raising concern over everything
from regulation to budget policy, executives said at House of
Lords Economic Affairs Committee hearings the past two days.  “It’s such a game-changing decision that we need to
understand the facts,” Keith Cochrane, chief executive officer
of engineering company  Weir Group Plc (WEIR) , told a hearing in Glasgow
today. “The potential unintended consequences of independence
need to be explored.”  Salmond has come under pressure this week to spell out how
independence would work after revealing that he is seeking legal
advice on future Scottish membership of the European Union.
Salmond denied in the Scottish Parliament again today that he
had misled voters in a March interview with the British
Broadcasting Corp. over the advice he’d sought on whether an
independent  Scotland  would automatically remain in the EU.  “We are frustrated by the quality of information
available,” Stephen Boyd, assistant secretary at the Scottish
Trades Union Congress, told the committee. “The debate is
highly political and not evidenced to any degree.”  Answers to questions may have to come from the U.K.
government in London and the European Commission in Brussels,
according to Owen Kelly, CEO of Scottish Financial Enterprise,
which represents banks, insurers and fund companies.  ‘Competing Assertions’  “It is regrettable that the political process is going to
lead us to a point of choice where the essential facts are not
going to be available to business,” Kelly told the committee’s
hearing in Edinburgh yesterday. “All we have to go on is
competing assertions.”  Salmond’s  Scottish National Party , which won a majority in
the Edinburgh legislature last year, wants more financial power
to increase Scotland’s competitiveness and to use investment to
boost the country’s economy. He is responsible for health,
education, transportation and justice, while the U.K. sets
economic and the bulk of taxation policy.  Scotland’s economic slump deepened in the second quarter,
the latest data available, while Scottish exports of
manufactured goods declined 4 percent. That was in line with a
decline in gross domestic product for the U.K. as a whole, which
a report from the  Office for National Statistics  today showed
exited recession in the third quarter.  Oil Revenue  The debate so far has mainly focused on the economics of
Scotland going it alone and how North Sea oil revenue and U.K.
national debt would be divided. Polls show voters are roughly
two-to-one in favor of staying a part of the U.K.  Alistair Darling, the former chancellor of the exchequer
who is leading the campaign to keep Scotland in the U.K., said
both governments should publish detailed documents setting out
the issues around independence.  Darling, who bailed out Edinburgh-based Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc when he was in government, told the committee
yesterday Scotland should expect to pay more to borrow because
of the premium investors charge to smaller countries in  Europe .  No new figures surrounding independence have emerged since
January, Martin Gilbert, CEO of  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) ,
Scotland’s largest fund manager, said in an e-mailed response to
questions.  “There is uncertainty on both sides of the debate,” David Nish, CEO of Edinburgh-based insurer  Standard Life Plc (SL/) , told the
committee yesterday. “The politicians are duty-bound to get
some clarification around these big questions. Change tends to
drive up costs, which makes you less competitive and raises the
cost of raising capital.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Glasgow, Scotland, at
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net ;
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  