-- Sharp Shares Fall After Report on First-Half Loss: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-10-25T01:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/sharp-shares-fall-after-report-on-first-half-loss-tokyo-mover.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) ,  Japan ’s biggest maker
of liquid-crystal displays, fell the most in two weeks in Tokyo
trading after the Nikkei newspaper said the company may post a
400 billion-yen ($5 billion) loss for the first half.  The shares  dropped  as much as 6.6 percent to 156 yen,
headed for the biggest decline since Oct. 9, and traded at 159
yen as of 9:54 a.m. Sharp said Aug. 2 it may post a 210 billion-
yen net loss for the six months ended Sept. 30.  Sharp is cutting jobs and selling factories, and has turned
to lenders to refinance  debt  as it  heads  for a second straight
year of losses amid slumping demand for TVs and a strong yen
that’s eroding overseas earnings. The company may take 200
billion yen in charges for losses on LCD panels and other
inventory, a writedown of deferred tax assets and restructuring
costs, the Nikkei said, without citing anyone.  “A net loss that big may raise concerns about the
company’s cash position,” Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace
Securities Co. in  Tokyo , said of the report. “We may have to
watch out for how much cash is left at the company at the end of
the first half, and whether bridge loans from banks will be
enough to refinance commercial papers.”  Sharp will probably revise its earnings forecasts for the
year ending March 31, the Nikkei said. The company’s sales and
operating loss for the first half may be in line with current
company forecasts, the report said.  Job Cuts  Atsushi Yoshida, a spokesman for Sharp, said the company
isn’t the source of report. The Osaka-based company is scheduled
to report earnings on Nov. 1.  The average of four analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg
is for a 215 billion-yen first-half net loss.  Sharp is cutting more than 10,000 jobs and selling overseas
plants as well as U.S. solar developer Recurrent Energy LLC in
an attempt to return to profit next fiscal year, people with
knowledge of the plans said Sept. 26. The company presented a
revival package to lenders that included asset sales and job
cuts as it sought 360 billion yen in loans, the people said.  The maker of Aquos TVs turned to lenders for support as it
struggled to refinance debt after  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s
Investors Service cut its  credit ratings  to junk.  The company had 706 billion yen of short-term debt maturing
within 12 months, according to its latest quarterly financial
statement. Sharp’s cash and near-cash stood at 218 billion yen
at the time.  Foxconn Investment  The electronics maker has been renegotiating terms for a
proposed stake sale to Taipei-based Foxconn Technology Group
after widening its full-year loss forecast eightfold in August,
triggering a slide in its share price. Foxconn agreed in March
to invest 67 billion yen for a 9.9 percent stake in Sharp at 550
yen a share.  Sharp aims to return to profit next fiscal year with the
help of job cuts and cost reductions, President Takashi Okuda
said Sept. 14. The company is planning to reduce wages,
managers’ salaries and bonuses to lower costs by 14 billion yen,
it said earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  