-- Solvay Earnings Beat Analyst Estimates on Polymers, Guar Gum
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-10-25T07:52:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/solvay-earnings-beat-analyst-estimates-on-polymers-guar-gum.html
Solvay SA (SOLB) , the chemicals and
plastics maker that bought Rhodia SA last year, reported
earnings that  beat  analyst estimates after adding capacity for
specialty polymers and higher guar gum prices compensated for
margin erosion in polyamide, vinyls and rare-earth oxides.  Third-quarter earnings before interest, tax, depreciation
and amortization, or Ebitda, rose 4 percent to 554 million euros
($721 million), the Brussels-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts had projected a decline to 522.3 million
euros, the average of nine estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales rose 1.1 percent to 3.29 billion euros as currency effects
offset lower demand.  Higher prices for guar gum, which Rhodia uses to make
gelling agents and conditioners, boosted earnings from the
Indian  joint venture  Hindustan Gum & Chemicals Ltd. by about 40
million euros in the quarter. While sales of specialty polymers
increased 18 percent, Solvay faced lower demand for rare-earth
oxides used in lamps and silica for car tires.  Excess capacity 
in the polyamide and PVC plastic industries eroded margins.  “The stronger than anticipated Ebitda adds to credibility
of the full-year guidance,” Filip De Pauw, an analyst at ING
Groep NV in Brussels, wrote in a note. “Cash flow generation
was impressive.”  Maintains Forecast  Solvay rose as much as 3.4 percent on Euronext Brussels and
traded 74 cents higher at 93.10 euros by 9:48 a.m. local time.
The shares have advanced 8.5 percent since Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Pierre Clamadieu set a target for 2016 Ebitda
excluding some items of 3 billion euros on April 24, outpacing
the Stoxx 600 Chemicals Index’s 7.3 percent gain in the period.  Solvay generated 346 million euros of cash not required for
reinvestment in the quarter and has reduced net financial debt
to 1.53 billion euros from 2.13 billion euros since the
acquisition of Rhodia SA 13 months ago.  With net debt now at less than 1 times Ebitda, Solvay’s
focus is on add-on acquisitions for its fastest growing units as
the integration of Rhodia progresses, Clamadieu said in an
interview with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “On
the Move.”  The world’s largest soda-ash maker maintained its  forecast 
that Ebitda will be little changed from 2.07 billion euros last
year, assuming the  Rhodia acquisition  had been completed at the
start of 2011.  While inventory management by customers and a slowdown in
some  market segments  will have a negative impact on fourth-
quarter performance, Solvay forecast on July 27 incremental cost
cuts of 75 million euros in the  second half . The company didn’t
give an update about savings today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  