-- Soros Joins Meister's Corvex Urging ADT to Buy Back Stock
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-10-25T20:32:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/soros-joins-meister-s-corvex-urging-adt-to-buy-back-stock.html
Billionaire investor  George Soros 
joined hedge-fund manager Keith Meister in urging  ADT Corp. (ADT)  to
buy back about 45 percent of its stock with borrowed money after
they became the home-security company’s biggest investors.  Meister’s Corvex Management LP has a stake equal to 5.02
percent, including shared voting power from Soros Fund
Management LLC, a filing showed. ADT climbed 7.4 percent to
$41.16 at the close of New York trading, the biggest increase
since last month’s spinoff from  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)   ADT should boost shareholder returns by taking advantage of
low interest rates to add debt, using the proceeds to repurchase
shares, New York-based Corvex said in a presentation included in
the filing. Boca Raton, Florida-based ADT is undervalued even
though it’s the market leader in home security, Corvex said.  Companies adopting an “equity-shrink” strategy have fared
well, Corvex said. “Stable growth combined with an appropriate
 capital structure , ongoing share repurchases and clear investor
communication of leverage target and buyback strategy has led to
significant outperformance.”  ‘Constructive Discussions’  ADT “has had constructive discussions with Corvex and
others to understand their views,” according to a company
statement following today’s filing. Corvex said it has met with
management to discuss ADT’s business and strategies and plans
additional conversations.  Sarah Cohn, a spokeswoman for ADT, and  Michael Vachon , a
Soros spokesman, declined to comment beyond the filing and
statement. A telephone message left for Meister wasn’t
immediately returned.  Corvex controls the equivalent of 11.5 million shares of
ADT through ownership of stock and call options, which includes
575,000 shares contributed through joint voting power by  Soros
Fund Management , according to the filing.  ADT had 229.9 million shares outstanding as of yesterday,
according to the filing. Its market value at the time was $8.8
billion, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  