-- South African Mining Strikes Cost $1.2 Billion in Lost Output
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-10-25T12:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/south-african-mining-strikes-cost-1-2-billion-in-lost-output.html
Strikes in South Africa cut mining
production by 10.1 billion rand ($1.15 billion) this year,
curbing tax revenue, exports and jobs, the National Treasury
said.  The strikes “have dented confidence and lowered growth
prospects for the remainder of the year,” the Treasury said in
the mid-term budget, released in Cape Town today.  Violent labor unrest in the mining industry intensified
this year, starting in January with a stoppage by workers at
 Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the world’s second-largest
platinum producer, that left four people dead. At least 46
people died during an illegal six-week strike that began Aug. 10
at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana platinum mine, 34 of them killed by
police as they tried to disperse protesters. Labor stoppages
have shut shafts owned by  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and  Gold Fields
Ltd. (GFI) , prompting the companies to start processes to fire more
than 20,000 workers.  “Declining mining output and the spread of strike activity
has depressed activity in related industries including
manufacturing, logistics and services,” the Treasury said.
“The impact will be larger if strike activity is protracted.”  Mining output fell 3.3 percent in the year through August,
with production of platinum group metals slumping 15.3 percent
from a year earlier, the Treasury said. Lower platinum, gold and
coal output was partially offset by increased output of iron ore
spurred by strong demand from  China , it said.  Growth Forecasts  Africa’s largest economy will probably expand 2.5 percent
this year, down from a previous estimate of 2.7 percent, the
Treasury said. Growth is set to accelerate to 3 percent in 2013,
down from 3.6 percent estimated in February. The reduction in
mining production because of the strikes is equivalent to about
0.3 percent of gross domestic product.  The government has made the re-establishment of “orderly
labor relations” a priority, according to the Treasury.  President Jacob Zuma ordered a judicial probe, led by
retired Supreme Court Judge Ian Farlam, into the police shooting
at Marikana on Aug. 16 and the deaths of 10 people, including
two policemen, before that. Police used automatic weapons and
live ammunition to disperse a crowd of about 3,000 strikers,
some of them armed with machetes and sticks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at   nseria@bloomberg.net  