-- South African Mining Strikes Wane as Gold Workers Return
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-10-25T14:49:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/south-african-mining-strikes-wane-as-gold-workers-return.html
Harmony Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  said workers
reported for duty to avoid losing their jobs as South African
strikes that started two months ago waned in the face of
ultimatums from producers to more than 25,000 workers.  Of 5,400 employees who walked out, 98 percent returned to
Johannesburg-based Harmony’s Kusasalethu mine, meeting a 6 a.m.
deadline, the company said in a statement.  A wave of wildcat pay strikes has cut mining output in
 Africa ’s largest economy, leading some producers to dismiss
employees refusing to return.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  said it
remains in talks with 12,000 workers it fired, while  Gold Fields
Ltd. (GFI)  said most of the 8,100 workers it dismissed have appealed
to keep their jobs. The walkouts are now easing, said Leon Esterhuizen, a metals analyst at CIBC World Markets Inc.  “By all accounts, they seem to be done,” Esterhuizen said
by phone from  London . Harmony gained 1.1 percent to 71.43 rand
by 4:16 p.m. in Johannesburg. AngloGold was down 0.6 percent at
283.99 rand, and Gold Fields dropped 0.3 percent to 104.87 rand.  Gold Fields has received appeals from 7,300 of those fired
at its KDC East operation on Oct. 23, Sven Lunsche, a company
spokesman, said by e-mail. AngloGold resumed talks with
dismissed workers today and saw “indications that employees
intend to return,”  Alan Fine , a spokesman, said by telephone.  AngloGold, Africa’s biggest producer of the metal,
restarted three mines at its Vaal River complex in the past two
days as strikes ended, after shutting all its South African
sites last month because of the walkouts.  Forecast Cut  Strikes that began at platinum mines and spread to gold,
chrome, coal and  iron ore  have hurt operators already grappling
with rising costs.  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s
largest producer of the metal, today lowered its full-year
output forecast, citing the impact of the stoppages.  The walkouts have cut South Africa’s mining production by
10.1 billion rand ($1.16 billion) this year, curbing  tax
revenue , exports and jobs, the National Treasury said in its
mid-term budget, released in  Cape Town  today. Mine output fell
3.3 percent in the year through August, with production of
platinum group metals slumping 15 percent from a year earlier.  The effect of the strikes on mining production is
equivalent to about 0.3 percent of gross domestic product.  AngloGold Volumes  AngloGold’s third-quarter output was 1.03 million ounces,
missing a forecast of 1.07 million to 1.10 million ounces, in
part because of the walkouts in  South Africa , the Johannesburg-
based company said yesterday.  Even after workers return, production will take time to
recover,  David Davis , an SBG Securities Ltd. gold analyst in
Johannesburg, said in a phone interview.  “Before any of the miners go down again there would need
to be comprehensive safety briefings and checks,” Davis said.
“That could take a significant amount of time. The next step of
course is next year’s wage negotiations and how that’s going to
be approached.”  Gold producers represented by the  Chamber of Mines  signed
an agreement with labor unions over changes to pay and job
categories today.  Members have “overwhelmingly” accepted the offer, which,
when added to a two-year deal, will see wages increase by as
much as 20.8 percent,  Lesiba Seshoka , a spokesman for the
 National Union of Mineworkers , said by phone as the accord was
signed in Johannesburg.  Pay Agreement  The companies already agreed last year to raise salaries by
7.5 percent to 10 percent for 2012. South Africa’s annual
inflation rate was 5.5 percent in September.  The agreement will see workers getting increases of 3
percent to 11 percent on top of those contained in the two-year
wage accord, Seshoka said. The deal also moves entry-level
workers to a higher pay category and includes allowances for
rock drillers and other underground operators.  “By the end of this week we are expecting that everyone
else would have returned in the gold sector,” Seshoka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  