-- Spirit Posts $590 Million Charge as New Jets Tax Output
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-10-25T20:04:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/spirit-aero-drops-after-590-million-in-charges-correct-.html
Spirit Aerosystems Holdings Inc. (SPR) 
dropped the most in four years after recording $590 million in
charges as it struggled to develop and build parts for multiple
new jets, including  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s Dreamliner, at the same time.  The company said today it no longer believes it can meet
its financial forecasts after Boeing’s delays on the 787 meant
the development and production ramp-up collided with other new
models Spirit had agreed to help build. Spirit is struggling
with its own suppliers on capacity and costs, as planemakers
around the world boost output simultaneously.  “I’m extremely disappointed in how we’ve managed this
complexity,” Chief Executive Officer Jeff Turner said on a call
with analysts and investors. “I underestimated the
organizational learning required.”  Spirit is juggling new products and expanding its customer
base, still  dominated  by former parent Boeing, which spun it off
in 2005. Planemakers have increasingly turned to suppliers such
as Spirit to share the risk of developing new jets. Spirit makes
sections for every Boeing model and is also working on new
aircraft such as the A350 from Airbus SAS and the CSeries from
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)   Spirit dropped 30 percent to $15.11 at 4:02 p.m. in New
York trading after a 34 percent drop that was the largest on an
intraday basis since September 2008. The stock’s plunge erased
about $1 billion in market value. At day’s end yesterday, the
company was valued at $3.11 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Greater Magnitude  The partsmaker noted the risk of more charges or a so-
called forward loss in an August regulatory filing because of
low margins on new components for planes including those by
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Gulfstream.  Still, the magnitude “is much greater than anybody would
have expected,” Ken Herbert, an analyst with Imperial Capital
LLC in San Francisco, said in an interview. “Clearly this
brings into question a lot of the issues that plagued the
company in 2009 and 2010 regarding execution of these programs
that we thought had largely been put to rest.”  The 787 charge was particularly surprising because Spirit
had been touting improvements made in costs for that program, as
recently as last month, Joseph Nadol, an analyst with JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in New York, wrote in a note.  Spirit makes sections of the wing and the fuselage for the
Dreamliner, the world’s first jetliner built of composites. The
plane was more than three years late when it entered service
last year after Boeing struggled with the new materials and
manufacturing processes.  ‘Biggest Risk’  “The biggest risk for Spirit has been and continues to be
the 787,” Turner said today.  The company had to postpone its plan to move some of the
work to  Malaysia  from Tulsa,  Oklahoma , because of unspecified
problems in meeting the schedule. That pushed back the timing of
expected savings from the move, said Ken Evans, a spokesman.  Some of the issues were internal and cost-related, and
didn’t hurt Boeing, Turner said. While some shipments were
delayed, Spirit met its contracted delivery schedule, he said.
The company is building sections for 3.5 787s a month now and
increasing the rate to 5 a month as it works to meet Boeing’s
promise to double that rate by the end of next year.  The third-quarter charges include $184 million with the 787
program, a combined $314 million for the Gulfstream G650’s wing
work and engine-nacelle package and $88 million for the G280’s
wing development, Spirit said.  ‘Very Complex’  The charges would reduce earnings per share by $2.90,
Spirit said. An insurance settlement related to tornado damage
earlier this year would temper that by $1.08, for a net cost of
$1.82 a share.  The company is working to negotiate long-term contracts
with its suppliers, which are “quite full with Boeing and
Airbus work,” Turner said.  Both planemakers are pushing production above current
record levels to meet demand for more fuel-efficient jets. That
has made it harder to get the capacity and prices that Spirit
had expected, Turner said. Contracts should be in place by
mid-2013, he said.  “We doubt Spirit will see much success wringing savings
from customers or suppliers, and so the risk of further charges
remains,”  Rob Stallard , an analyst with RBC Capital in  London ,
wrote in a note after the call. “We had expected a charge from
Spirit this quarter, but the hit was 10 times larger than our
modest $50 million placeholder.”  Spirit Chief Financial Officer Phil Anderson said the
charge may pressure cash flows through 2018, with larger effects
in the next few years. The company’s free cash flow has been
negative each year since its inception, said Nadol, who has a
neutral rating on the stock.  Spirit said its lenders have approved amending credit-
agreement ratios while the Wichita, Kansas-based company
addresses the charges, and no default has occurred.  The partsmaker said it will give more details when it
reports  third-quarter earnings  on Nov. 1. Analysts had
projected, on average, adjusted profit of 54 cents a share on
$1.35 billion in sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  