-- Sprint Loss Is Smaller Than Estimated as Spending Ebbs
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-10-25T20:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/sprint-loss-is-smaller-than-estimated-on-smartphones.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. wireless carrier, reported a smaller loss than
 estimated , helped in part by network-spending delays and fewer
smartphone discounts.  The third-quarter net loss widened to 26 cents a share,
compared with a 10 cent loss a year earlier,  Overland Park ,
Kansas-based Sprint said today in a statement. Sales rose 5.2
percent to $8.76 billion. Analysts had predicted a loss of 43
cents a share and revenue of $8.81 billion on average, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sprint has been losing money as it doles out smartphone
subsidies and funnels cash into an infrastructure-upgrade plan
called Network Vision. It’s starting to see more of a payback
from that spending because more customers are using their
devices to surf the Web, run applications and watch videos --
boosting Sprint’s revenue from data plans. Still, sales missed
projections and the number of monthly contract subscribers fell.  “This underscores how difficult it is to grow in a
wireless industry that is saturated,” said  Craig Moffett , an
analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. who has a neutral rating
on the stock.  Help is coming in the form of a new investor. Last week,
Tokyo-based  Softbank Corp. (9984)  agreed to pay $20 billion for a 70
percent stake in the carrier. The deal would be the biggest
publicly announced outbound acquisition by a Japanese company
since at least 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sprint received $3.1 billion of the money this week as the first
portion of Softbank’s investment.  Stock Gains  Sprint shares  fell 1.8 percent to $5.52 at the close in  New
York . The stock has more than doubled this year, bolstered by
the Softbank deal and a turnaround plan by Chief Executive
Officer  Dan Hesse  that promises to make Sprint profitable by
2014.  The company sold 1.5 million iPhones in the period, putting
it on track to satisfy a $15.5 billion purchase agreement with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Hesse said on a conference call. The company also is
shifting some of its  capital spending  to 2013.  Last week’s deal with Softbank will give Sprint more
financial backing for its network expansion while helping the
Japanese company grow beyond its home market.  “One could argue that Softbank’s bid puts a bit of a floor
under the stock,” said Scott Schermerhorn, who helps manage
$550 million in assets, including Sprint shares, at Granite
Investment Advisors Inc. in Concord,  New Hampshire . “Softbank
strengthens them in terms of liquidity, but as a shareholder
with Sprint issuing more shares as part of the deal you will be
diluted a bit.”  Lost Customers  Sprint lost 456,000 subscribers last quarter, showing that
the company’s comeback isn’t complete. Sprint began offering
LTE, or long-term evolution, service in five cities in July,
with plans to add more this year to offer newer, faster
technology. That’s dwarfed by the LTE network offered by market
leader  Verizon Wireless .  “For a temporary period of time, we are at a competitive
disadvantage in terms of LTE,” Hesse said in an interview.
“And Verizon, to their credit, is using that significant
advantage that they have, until we catch up.”  Sprint also is shutting down its out-of-date Nextel
network, contributing to customer churn, though it did manage to
coax 59 percent of the users leaving Nextel onto Sprint’s main
service.  Still, the signs of weakness go beyond the Nextel network,
said  Chris King , an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
Baltimore.  Excluding the users recaptured from Nextel, 106,000 monthly
contract customers left Sprint’s main network, he said in a
report. This “raises concerns for us regarding the long-term
market share of the brand,” King said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  