-- St. Jude Device to Close Heart Holes Shows Mixed Trial Results
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-10-25T15:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/st-jude-device-to-close-heart-holes-shows-mixed-trial-results.html
Surgery using a  St. Jude Medical
Inc. (STJ)  device to close openings in the heart after a stroke drew
mixed results in a company-funded study.  When all participants were included in the data, the usual
standard in research used for U.S. regulatory approval, there
was no benefit from the Amplatzer PFO Occluder compared with
non-surgical drug treatment in reducing the risk of a second
stroke in patients who have an opening between the two upper
chambers of their hearts. A reanalysis of the data in selected
participants found a slight gain.  The $20,000 procedure, in which the device is threaded into
the heart via a vein in the leg and clamped like a cuff-link
through the hole, is performed about 9,000 times a year in the
U.S. The findings, presented at the  Transcatheter Cardiovascular
Therapeutics  conference in Miami, suggest it isn’t a panacea for
young people who inexplicably suffer a stroke and now rely on
lifelong blood thinners to avoid another one.  “I don’t think it will change practice a whole lot,” said
Ajay Kirtane, director of the interventional cardiology
fellowship program at Columbia University Medical Center/New
York-Presbyterian Hospital in  New York . “I would like as a
physician to have the option to discuss it with the patient and
be able to use it if the patient elects to do so. That would be
the ideal scenario. To use it in everybody, I don’t think you
can do that on the basis of this data.”  About 40,000 people would be potential candidates if the
results were positive, said  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst at Wells
Fargo Securities in New York.  The Amplatzer plug, made up of two wire-mesh discs filled
with a polyester fabric, generates less than $100 million a
year. The potential market for the heart closure device to
prevent strokes is about $400 million, wrote Biegelsen in a
Sept. 24 note to investors.  The trial, dubbed Respect, tracked 980 patients ages 18 to
60. It started in 2003 and ran until there were 25 strokes
recorded. There were no deaths or fatal strokes, with non-fatal
strokes occurring in 9 patients assigned to the Amplatzer plug
and 16 patients slated to get medicine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  