-- St. Jude Device to Close Heart Holes Fails to Stop Stroke
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-10-25T20:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/st-jude-device-to-close-heart-holes-fails-to-prevent-stroke.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) ’s device to
plug openings in the heart after a stroke failed to definitively
prevent repeat incidents in patients under age 60 compared with
non-surgical drug treatment, two studies found.  The data calls into question broader use of the procedure
and the product, used for nearly two decades at a cost of about
$20,000 for each of about 9,000 surgeries done yearly.  Neither study determined that St. Jude’s Amplatzer PFO
Occluder significantly reduced risk of a second stroke. One,
funded by the St. Paul Minnesota-based company, found the device
was beneficial once researchers adjusted the data to consider
different dropout rates and types of treatment. The twin reports
suggest the surgery isn’t a panacea for those who inexplicably
suffer a stroke, and then must rely on lifelong use of blood
thinners to avoid another one, doctors said.  “If there is a huge treatment effect, none of these trials
have been able to show it,” said Deepak Bhatt, chief of
cardiology at the VA Boston Healthcare System and a professor at
 Harvard Medical School , in an interview.  The studies were presented independently today at the
 Transcatheter Cardiovascular Therapeutics  conference in Miami.
St. Jude fell 3.6 percent to $38.27 at the close in  New York .
The company has gained 12 percent this year.  The St. Jude plug, made up of two wire-mesh discs filled
with a polyester fabric, is threaded into the heart via a vein
in the leg, and clamped like a cuff-link through the hole. In
the U.S., about 40,000 people would be potential candidates if
the results were positive, said  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst at
Wells Fargo Securities in New York.  Anecdotal Results  “We need a definitive trial of this approach if it’s going
to be broadly used for PFO closure,” Bhatt said in an interview
at the meeting. “Anecdotally, there are patients who seem to
benefit. It’s unfortunate that none of the trials have been able
to absolutely nail that down.”  The Amplatzer plug device generates less than $100 million
a year. The potential market for the heart closure device to
prevent strokes is about $400 million, Biegelsen wrote in a
Sept. 24 note to investors.  St. Jude will file for U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approval of the device in the next month or two, said  Glenn Novarro , an analyst for  RBC Capital Markets  in New York.  Rejection Expected  “Investors should assume the product will not receive FDA
approval” and consider it an upside surprise if the device gets
clearance in the next year, he said in an interview. “Everyone
expected positive news. You can’t be optimistic today given that
the primary endpoint missed.”  The results won’t change medical practice very much, with
some high-risk patients still likely to get treated even without
formal FDA approval, Ajay Kirtane, director of the
interventional cardiology fellowship program at Columbia
University Medical Center/New York-Presbyterian Hospital in New
York, said at the meeting.  “I would like as a physician to have the option to discuss
it with the patient and be able to use it if the patient elects
to do so,” he said. “That would be the ideal scenario. To use
it in everybody, I don’t think you can do that on the basis of
this data.”  The Respect trial funded by St. Jude tracked 980 patients
ages 18 to 60. It started in 2003 and ran until there were 25
strokes recorded. There were no deaths or fatal strokes, with
non-fatal strokes occurring in 9 patients assigned to the
Amplatzer plug and 16 patients slated to get medicine.  Intent to Treat  The difference wasn’t significant in a so-called intent to
treat analysis, the standard method required by U.S. regulators.
Three of the nine strokes in the Amplatzer group occurred in
patients who actually never received the device. Patients had a
stroke before it was implanted, underwent open heart surgery to
repair the hole or elected not to get the procedure after being
assigned to the Amplatzer group. Based on clinical trial design,
they were still counted against the device.  Removing those patients from the Amplatzer arm, and
adjusting the drug therapy group for example when a patient
stopped blood thinners so they could have surgery, there was a
significant 63 percent lower stroke risk in the Amplatzer arm.  “These are healthy people, and the results are something a
46-year-old stroke patient wants to know,” said lead researcher
 John Carroll , director of interventional cardiology at the
 University of Colorado . “It works. What we are debating is how
superior it is to medical therapy. Any benefit that could
potentially cut the risks down the road has a big impact.”  Side Effects  Two Amplatzer patients in the study developed cardiac
tamponade, when blood or fluid builds up around the heart. Two
others developed a clot in the heart around the time of the
procedure, Carroll said. There was no evidence of clots forming
around the device or signs of erratic heart rates.  The second study, known as the PC Trial, also didn’t find
patients treated with the device fared significantly better. The
trial followed 414 patients enrolled in  Europe ,  Brazil ,  Canada 
and  Australia  starting more than a decade ago.  Differences in a composite goal of reducing deaths, non-
fatal stroke, transient ischemic attack or peripheral embolism
weren’t significantly different between the two groups, the
study found. When the researchers looked only at stroke risk,
they also uncovered no definitive difference.  The study was initially funded with a grant from St. Jude
and conducted independently.  “The good news for patients is that the event rate is very
low and both options are reasonable,” said Anil Poulose, an
interventional cardiologist at Minneapolis Heart Institute at
Abbott Northwestern Hospital. “Initially there was a lot of
enthusiasm that we could cut the event rate dramatically. That
has died down.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  