-- Starwood Hotels Shares Fall on Weakening Demand for Rooms
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-10-25T15:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/starwood-hotels-third-quarter-profit-gains-as-room-rates-rise.html
Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide
Inc. (HOT) , owner of the luxury St. Regis and W brands, fell to a
three-month low after predicting earnings below analysts’
estimates as demand for rooms slows around the world.  Profit in the last three months of the year will be 64
cents to 66 cents a share, the  Stamford , Connecticut-based
company said today in its third-quarter earnings statement.
Analysts project  earnings  of 68 cents a share, based on the
average of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  A recovery in demand has “lost its steam,” Chief
Executive Officer Frits van Paasschen said on a conference call.
For the third quarter, Starwood reported a 9.1 percent drop in
revenue per available room in Europe and only a “modest” 1.3
percent increase worldwide, said Nikhil Bhalla, a senior lodging
analyst at FBR & Co. in Arlington, Virginia..  “The concern is that they lowered fourth-quarter guidance
while international and domestic results were weak,” Bhalla
said in a telephone interview.  Starwood dropped 2.8 percent to $51.92 at 11:15 a.m.  New
York  time. The shares earlier fell to $51.16, the lowest
intraday price since July 26.  Net income in the third quarter rose to $170 million, or 87
cents a share, from $163 million, or 84 cents, a year earlier,
the company said. The results included a $33 million gain
related to a tax benefit on the sale of two hotels, while year-
earlier profit included a benefit of $35 million.  Bal Harbour  The latest quarter’s results were boosted by vacation-unit
sales at the company’s St. Regis Bal Harbour in  Miami Beach ,
 Florida , which isn’t reflective of the main hotel business,
Bhalla said.  Earnings from Starwood’s vacation ownership and residential
business climbed about $19 million from 2011. That included $12
million of earnings from the St. Regis Bal Harbour in Florida,
about $7 million more than analysts predicted, according to
Bhalla.  Growth has slowed around the world, including in  China ,
where new supply in metropolitan areas has added to competition,
van Paasschen said during the call today. Forecasting 2013
results is “quite difficult” because it’s unclear whether the
slowdown will be temporary, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 