-- Sternlicht’s Starwood Said to Agree to Buy Servicer LNR
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-10-25T17:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/sternlicht-s-starwood-said-to-agree-to-buy-servicer-lnr.html
Barry Sternlicht’s Starwood Capital
Group LLC agreed to buy LNR Property LLC, the biggest manager of
troubled U.S. commercial real estate loans, for more than $1
billion, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.  The deal probably will be completed by the end of the year,
said the person, who asked not to be identified because the
agreement hasn’t been announced. Miami Beach, Florida-based LNR,
once a unit of homebuilder  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , is one of three major
U.S. special servicers, which represent the interests of holders
of commercial mortgage-backed securities.  The purchase would give Greenwich, Connecticut-based
Starwood insight into more than 1,100 delinquent securitized
mortgages across the U.S. with a total balance of $19.6 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In addition to special
servicing, LNR also offers property-investment management, asset
financing and land purchasing and development services,
according to its website.  A partnership that includes  Vornado Realty Trust (VNO) , Cerberus
Capital Management LP,  iStar Financial Inc. (SFI)  and  Oaktree Capital
Group LLC (OAK)  gained control of LNR in July 2010. Their
recapitalization of LNR came at a time when the commercial real
estate industry was suffering from a more than  40 percent plunge 
in property values that triggered a flood of delinquencies after
credit markets froze in late 2008.  Tom Johnson, a Starwood spokesman, declined to comment.
Tobin Cobb, LNR’s co-chief executive officer, didn’t return a
telephone call.  The Wall Street Journal reported the agreement late
yesterday.  The other large U.S. special servicers are CWCapital Asset
Management and C-III Asset Management LLC. CWCapital is owned by
affiliates of Fortress Investment Group LLC, and C-III is
controlled by Andrew Farkas’s Island Capital Group LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  