-- Suez Environnement Maintains Dividend Even as Profit Slides
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-10-25T09:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/suez-environnement-profit-declines-as-europe-waste-volumes-drop.html
Suez Environnement (SEV) , the world’s
second-biggest water company, maintained its full-year dividend
even after reporting a 4 percent decline in nine-month profit.  The  payout  will be 65 euro cents (85 U.S. cents) a share
for 2012, the same as last year, Chief Financial Officer Jean-
Marc Boursier said today on a conference call. The shares rose
the most in a year.  Suez Environnement’s decision to keep the dividend
unchanged contrasts with larger competitor  Veolia Environnement ,
which plans to trim its payout to 70 euro cents a share this
year and next, from 1.21 euros. Both utilities have seen demand
for industrial waste collection slump after manufacturers
shuttered factories to survive the economic slowdown.  Suez Environnement’s earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization dropped to 1.77 billion euros in
the first nine months of the year from 1.85 billion euros a year
earlier, the Paris-based company said today in a statement.
Sales rose 1.3 percent to 11.1 billion euros.  “Waste activity  Europe  is still being affected by a
difficult economic environment,” Chief Executive Officer Jean- Louis Chaussade said in the statement. Waste-handling volumes
dropped about 3 percent in the third quarter, a similar decline
as in the previous three months.  Australia Plant  Suez Environnement, which is 34 percent-owned by utility
 GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA, said earlier this year that impairment on an
Australian desalination plant, combined with an “uncertain”
economic environment, would leave Ebitda and sales unchanged in
2012. It maintained that target today.  The Melbourne plant is expected to be running at full
capacity at the end of the year and is no longer “burning
cash,” Boursier said. The “cash-neutral” project will
underpin Ebitda of more than 700 million euros in the final
three months of the year, he said.  Suez Environnement rose as much as 6.9 percent in Paris
trading, the biggest intraday gain since Oct. 12, 2011. The
stock was up 4.6 percent at 8.546 euros as of 11:15 a.m. local
time, trimming its decline this year to 3.9 percent.  Suez Environnement and Veolia denied this month that there
is a plan for a tie-up. “We are not working on this merger with
Veolia -- there is no such project,” Boursier said today.  Suez Environnement said a plan to close 15 waste-handling
sites in Europe is half complete. The utility may cut costs by
more than the 150 million euros targeted for 2012 and won’t
spend more than 1.2 billion euros this year, Boursier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  