-- Syrian Violence Continues Before UN-Proposed Cease-fire
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-10-25T11:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/syrian-violence-continues-before-un-proposed-cease-fire.html
Syrian clashes killed at least 25
people as fighting raged a day before a cease-fire the United
Nations said was set to come into effect over a Muslim holiday,
according to an opposition group.  Fighting took place today near Damascus, the capital, and
in Aleppo, Daraa and Deir Ezzor, Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, said by phone today from
 London . Six civilians, including three children, six rebels and
13 government soldiers died in the violence, he said.  “There’s no sign at all of any preparation for a cease-
fire, on both sides, because both sides are attacking each
other,” Rahman said.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and some rebel groups
agreed to a cease-fire during the Eid al-Adha holiday that is
due to start tomorrow in most of the Muslim world, UN Special
Envoy Lakhdar Brahimi, who’s been working on a truce for two
months, said yesterday. Assad will respond positively today to
the cease-fire, the Russian ambassador to the UN, Vitaly
Churkin, told reporters in New York.  “It’s difficult to imagine the rebels would agree,
basically because of the divisions,” Ayham Kamel, Middle East
analyst at Eurasia Group Ltd., said by phone from London. “They
will be suspicious of the regime accepting it and they will see
it as an opportunity for them to move forward.”  Chinese Support  The UN Security Council backed the proposal yesterday and
urged outside countries to use their influence on the government
and rebels to implement the cease-fire. Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei today announced his country’s support for the
halt to fighting at a regular briefing in Beijing.  “We commend and support the mediation efforts of the UN
special envoy and the cease-fire decision during the holiday in
 Syria ,” he said. “We are also happy to see the reaction by
relevant parties to the recommendations.”  Assad’s government has been fighting a 19-month uprising
that the observatory says has killed more than 30,000 people,
and the UN has registered more than 350,000 Syrians who have
fled from their homeland. The conflict has spilled over into
Lebanon and  Turkey .  The Syrian government and opposition fighters last agreed
to a halt in hostilities in April. The conflict resumed within
days, with each side accusing the other of failing to abide by
its terms.  Acceptance of the cease-fire by Assad’s government
“doesn’t mean anything because it doesn’t mean everyone on the
ground will agree,” Rahman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  