-- Syria Accepts Muslim Holiday Cease-Fire as Violence Rages
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d   a n d   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-10-25T15:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/syria-accepts-muslim-holiday-cease-fire-as-violence-rages.html
The Syrian army will recognize a
cease-fire for the Eid al-Adha Muslim holiday proposed by the
 United Nations  and reserves the right to respond to rebel
attacks, state television announced.  The cease-fire, proposed by UN Special Envoy Lakhdar Brahimi, will end on Oct. 29, the state broadcaster said today.
The announcement came as clashes raged near Damascus, the
capital, and in Aleppo, Daraa and Deir Ezzor, claiming the lives
of 25 people, according to Rami  Abdel Rahman , head of the
opposition Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights . Arabyia
television, citing activists, said the death toll rose to 46.  “There’s no sign at all of any preparation for a cease-
fire, on both sides, because both sides are attacking each
other,” Rahman said from  London .  Assad’s government has been fighting a 19-month uprising
that the observatory says has killed more than 30,000 people,
and the UN has registered more than 350,000 Syrians who have
fled from their homeland. The conflict has spilled over into
Lebanon and  Turkey .  “It’s difficult to imagine the rebels would agree,
basically because of the divisions,” Ayham Kamel, Middle East
analyst at Eurasia Group Ltd., said by phone from London before
the announcement of  Syria ’s acceptance. “They will be
suspicious of the regime accepting it and they will see it as an
opportunity for them to move forward.”  Security Council  The UN  Security Council  backed the proposal yesterday and
urged outside countries to use their influence on the government
and rebels to implement the cease-fire. Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman Hong Lei today announced his country’s support for the
halt to fighting at a regular briefing in Beijing.  “We commend and support the mediation efforts of the UN
special envoy and the cease-fire decision during the holiday in
Syria,” he said. “We are also happy to see the reaction by
relevant parties to the recommendations.”  The Syrian government and opposition fighters last agreed
to a halt in hostilities in April. The conflict resumed within
days, with each side accusing the other of failing to abide by
the terms of the truce.  Acceptance of the cease-fire by Assad’s government
“doesn’t mean anything because it doesn’t mean everyone on the
ground will agree,” Rahman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  