-- GDP Surge Makes BOE Stimulus Less Likely, Economists Say
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-25T13:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/u-k-gdp-surge-makes-boe-stimulus-less-likely-economists-say.html
Britain’s stronger-than-forecast
exit from recession with the fastest growth in five years in the
third quarter has reduced the chance of the  Bank of England 
expanding stimulus next month, economists said.  Citigroup Inc., Barclays Plc and Investec Securities
abandoned forecasts for more  quantitative easing  in November,
while  Capital Economics  said today’s gross domestic product data
may “tip the balance towards the Monetary Policy Committee
holding fire at its upcoming meeting.”  The economy’s 1 percent surge, which exceeded even the top
estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey , came two weeks before the
MPC must decide whether to expand its stimulus program beyond
375 billion pounds ($605 billion). Some officials have indicated
a reluctance to loosen policy further, with  Martin Weale  saying
this month that he’s uncertain whether more QE is the right
thing to do with  inflation  above the central bank’s target.  “In light of these developments, as well as recent signs
of additional inflation stickiness, we now think it is unlikely
that a majority of the MPC will support additional QE in
November,” Barclays economists including London-based Chris Crowe and  Simon Hayes  said in an e-mailed note to clients. “In
the absence of a renewed stalling in the recovery, we expect
this month’s asset purchases to be the last.”  Crowe and Hayes also cited “more optimistic” comments
from Bank of England Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  and Markets
Director  Paul Fisher  as a factor in their decision to drop a
forecast that the central bank would expand stimulus by 50
billion pounds next month.  ‘Past the Worst’  “I think we’re past the worst,” Bean told the North Wales
Daily Post in an  interview  published today. “The expectation is
growth should be picking up.”  The Western Mail reported that Fisher said the economy
isn’t “falling off a cliff” and the BOE’s bond-purchase plan
was “not causing any domestic inflationary pressure, but it
could do if the economy started to grow again.”  Citigroup economist Michael Saunders today dropped a
prediction of an increase in stimulus on Nov. 8, while JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s Malcolm Barr changed his forecast from a 50
billion-pound expansion to 25 billion pounds.  ‘Temporary Gain’  “Even though the gain in GDP in part probably is
temporary, we no longer expect the MPC will expand QE further,”
Saunders said. However, “we do expect the MPC will expand QE
markedly further over time, but the next move probably will be
delayed beyond November.”  Economist  Philip Shaw  at Investec said the decision to pull
his forecast for a 50 billion-pound expansion next month was
only “marginally” due to today’s GDP data, with inflation the
dominant factor. Nomura International Plc economist Philip Rush
changed his QE forecast yesterday and now sees an expansion of
the program in February rather than November.  While the pace of consumer-price increases slowed to a
three-year low of 2.2 percent in September, Governor  Mervyn King 
said earlier this week that recent rises in the cost of energy
and food mean inflation will stay “a little” above policy
makers’ 2 percent goal into next year.  The third-quarter GDP surge was partly due to a rebound
from a second-quarter slump and the impact of the  Olympic Games .
The National Institute of Economic and Social research estimates
that underlying growth is about 0.2 pecent to 0.3 percent.
Still, there are positive signs, with retail sales increasing
more than forecast in September and payrolls rising to a record
in the quarter through August.  “At the margin, the upside news reduces the probability of
further asset purchases being announced next month,” said James Ashley, an economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London . “But,
for now, we still think that, on balance, an extension is more
likely than not” in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  