-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Oct. 23 (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-10-25T12:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-oct-23-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  National Drought Summary -- October 23, 2012  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
 National Weather Service  (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/ .  Weather Summary:  A slow-moving storm resulted in several days
of cool, cloudy, showery weather in the Midwest, replenishing
soil moisture.  Rain also extended southward through the
Mississippi Valley.  Mostly dry weather prevailed, however,
across the lower Southeast.  One exception to the dry pattern
was southern  Florida , where locally heavy showers occurred.
Farther west, mostly dry weather accompanied a warming trend
across the Plains.  Significant precipitation was limited to the
eastern Dakotas, while the High Plains’ hard red winter wheat
belt received little or no rain.  As a result, soil moisture
shortages continued to limit wheat emergence and development
across the northwestern half of the Plains.  In addition, mid-
week wind gusts locally in excess of 70 mph raised dust and
temporarily closed major roadways across parts of the Plains.
On the southern half of the Plains, however, a combination of
warmer weather and previous soil moisture improvements promoted
wheat growth.  Elsewhere, dry weather from southern California
to the central and southern Rockies contrasted with substantial
precipitation in northern California and the Northwest.  The East:  Heavy rain in the northern Mid-Atlantic region
brought further reductions in the coverage of abnormal dryness
(D0) and moderate drought (D1).  Farther south, however, little
or no rainfall occurred.  As a result, drought coverage began to
gradually increase in the interior Southeast, including parts of
Alabama and  Georgia .  On October 21, USDA rated topsoil moisture
49% very short to short in Georgia and 38% very short to short
in  South Carolina .  The Mid-South:  Spotty showers provided some additional drought
relief in a few areas, including parts of  Missouri  and western
 Tennessee .  Meanwhile, drought coverage increased slightly in
areas bypassed by rain, such as a few locations in northern and
western Arkansas.  The Midwest:  The second significant rainfall event in less than
2 weeks provided broad drought relief.  In addition, an
increasing area of the Midwest is being affected primarily by
only long-term drought (L), rather than both short- and long-
term drought (SL).  The most recent rainfall event was heaviest
in the states bordering Lake  Michigan , while locally heavy
showers and thunderstorms also dotted Missouri,  Iowa , and the
far upper Midwest (the eastern Dakotas and western  Minnesota ).
By October 21, topsoil moisture had improved dramatically, with
less than one-fifth rated very short to short in  Indiana  (13%)
and Michigan (16%).  The Plains:  From October 16-18, a low-pressure system over the
Midwest generated high winds across the nation’s mid-section.
On the 18th, gusts were clocked to 74 mph in Pierre, South
Dakota, and 70 mph in Broken Bow,  Nebraska .  Two days earlier in
 Montana , Havre (62 mph on October 16) had noted its highest
October gust since 1999.  The wind raised dust, temporarily
closing several major roadways--including parts of I-80 in
Nebraska--and triggering several chain-reaction automobile
accidents.  In some of the nation’s hardest-hit drought areas,
winter wheat has been very slow to emerge this fall.  For
example, only 13% of South Dakota’s crop had emerged by October
21, versus the 5-year average of 80%.  The wheat emergence
situation is only slightly better in Montana (36 vs. 67%),
Nebraska (58 vs. 87%), and  Colorado  (66 vs. 82%).  On October
21, Nebraska continued to report the nation’s worst rangeland
and pasture conditions (97% very poor to poor; tied with
California).  Behind Nebraska were Kansas (80% very poor to
poor),  South Dakota  (80%), Montana (77%), Oklahoma (71%),  North
Dakota  (59%), and Texas (41%).  Meanwhile, the storm that
produced the high winds also brought much-needed moisture to the
eastern Dakotas.  On the strength of heavy rain, extreme drought
(D3) was eradicated from eastern North Dakota.  Some of the
greatest improvements occurred in the Red River Valley of the
North.  The West:  The most impressive precipitation of the season
overspread northern California, the Pacific Northwest, and the
northern Rockies.  The precipitation also helped to establish
high-elevation snow packs, with 1 to 2 feet reported at some
locations in the Cascades and Sierra Nevada.  The heaviest rain
and snow fell in drought-free areas, although precipitation
chipped away at dryness and drought in a few areas.  Meanwhile,
dry conditions prevailed across the southern half of the West.
In fact, extreme drought (D3) was expanded slightly in northern
 Utah  based on continuing long-term precipitation deficits.  On
October 21, Utah’s stock water supplies were reported by USDA to
be 56% very short to short.  Rangeland and pasture conditions
remain abysmal in much of the West, with nine of eleven states
reporting more than half rated very poor to poor.  On October
21, California (97% very poor to poor) matched Nebraska for the
nation’s worst rangeland and pasture conditions, followed by
Colorado (86%), Wyoming (86%), New Mexico (84%), Nevada (82%),
Montana (77%), Utah (56%), Idaho (54%), Oregon (53%),  Arizona 
(49%), and Washington (35%).  Hawaii ,  Alaska  and Puerto Rico:  Currently, there is no drought-
-only abnormal dryness (D0)--depicted in Alaska and Puerto Rico,
where no changes were introduced.  Alaskan dryness is confined
to the northern part of the state.  Meanwhile in Hawaii, October
has featured very dry conditions.  At Hawaii’s major airport
observation sites, October 1-23 rainfall ranged from 0.01 inch
(1% of normal) at Kahului, Maui, to 2.35 inches (36%) at Hilo,
on the Big Island.  Moderate, severe, and extreme drought (D1,
D2, and D3) covers more than half of Hawaii, with some of the
driest conditions noted in leeward areas.  On October 21,
Hawaiian topsoil moisture was reported to be 78% very short to
short, and irrigation was being used in many areas to maintain
favorable crop conditions.  Looking Ahead:  During the next 5 days (October 25-29), the
complex interaction between Hurricane Sandy, a cold front
crossing North America, and a blocking high-pressure system over
the northern Atlantic Ocean will result in a high-impact weather
event in the eastern U.S.  Coastal highlights will include large
waves and beach erosion.  Inland--especially in the Northeast--
conditions developing during the weekend and persisting well
into next week should include multiple days of high winds and
heavy rainfall.  Precipitation may eventually change to snow in
parts of the Appalachians.  Farther west, rainfall associated
with the cold front could total 1 to 2 inches in the Midwest.
Similar precipitation totals should also occur during the next 5
days in the Northwest.  In contrast, dry weather will prevail
from southern California to the southern Plains. Cold air will
gradually engulf much of the nation, although temperatures will
rebound to above-normal levels in the West by early next week.  The NWS 6- to 10-day outlook for October 30 - November 3 calls
for below-normal temperatures across the eastern half of the
U.S., while warmer-than-normal weather will prevail from the
Pacific Coast to the High Plains.  Meanwhile, near- to below-
normal precipitation across the majority of the U.S. will
contrast with wetter-than-normal conditions in the Northeast and
Northwest.  Author: Brad Rippey,  U.S. Department of Agriculture   Dryness Categories D0 ... Abnormally Dry ... used for areas
showing dryness but not yet in drought, or for areas recovering
from drought.  Drought Intensity Categories D1 ... Moderate Drought D2 ...
Severe Drought D3 ... Extreme Drought D4 ... Exceptional Drought  Drought or Dryness Types S ... Short-Term, typically <6 months
(e.g. agricultural, grasslands) L ... Long-Term, typically >6
months (e.g. hydrology, ecology)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  