-- Muni Downgrades Top 2011 Total on Weak Economy: Moody’s
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-10-25T19:06:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/muni-downgrades-top-2011-total-on-weak-economy-moody-s.html
Credit-rating cuts were made on more
than $200 billion of municipal securities in the first nine
months of this year, exceeding the total for 2011, and there’s
no end in sight, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Port Authority  of New York and  New Jersey , Puerto Rico
Sales Tax Financing Corp., Chicago O’Hare Airport Enterprise and
 Pennsylvania  state debt accounted for more than 70 percent of
third-quarter downgrades alone, affecting about $75 billion of
securities, Moody’s said today in a report.  “Increased risk associated with difficult economic and
industry environments, stressed budgetary and reserve positions,
and challenging debt structures are the principal factors
driving the downgrades,” Eileen Hawes and other Moody’s
analysts said in the report.  State and local economies are still feeling the lingering
effects of the last U.S. recession, which ended in June 2009.
Unemployment has  risen  for four straight months in Pennsylvania,
to 8.2 percent last month from 7.4 percent in May, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  New York  jobless rate surged to
9.1 percent in July and August from 8.2 percent in December,
before declining to 8.9 percent last month.  “Local government credit quality will likely continue to
deteriorate through the end of 2012 and be reflected in elevated
downgrades as state funding and property-tax revenues continue
to lag as expenditure pressures persist,” the Moody’s analysts
said in the report. “We expect overall downgrade activity to
continue to surpass upgrades through the end of 2012.”  In a report yesterday, Moody’s said more local governments
are set to fall below investment grade in the coming year.  The rating company based in New York said $5.5 billion of
municipal securities was upgraded in the third quarter, about
half of the amount given higher credit scores in the April to
June period. Debt issued by hospitals accounted for more than $3
billion of the upgrades, including six stemming from
consolidation actions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  