-- Unipetrol Returns to Quarterly Profit on One-Time Provision
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-10-25T11:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/unipetrol-returns-to-quarterly-profit-on-one-time-provision.html
Unipetrol AS (UNIP) , the largest Czech
refiner, said it returned to profit in the third quarter on a
one-time provision and improved sales.  Net income in the three months through September reached
645 million koruna ($33.5 million) from a loss of 128 million
koruna a year earlier, the Prague-based company said in an e-
mailed statement today. Sales during the period increased 18
percent to 28.4 billion koruna.  Unipetrol started to see some decline in refinery margins
in the fourth quarter, Chief Financial Officer Mariusz Kedra
told journalists at a news conference in Prague today.
Petrochemical margins remain “stable” for now, he said.  The company was forced to close its Kralupy refinery today
for at least 10 days because of a shortage of crude oil. The
shutdown will be used for maintenance, originally planned for
November, and shouldn’t have any “negative” impact on the
refiner’s financial results, Kedra said.  Unipetrol has secured enough crude oil supplies for the
rest of the year for its production at Ceska Rafinerska,
according to the executive.  The refiner rose 0.3 percent to 171.99 as of 12:57 p.m. in
 Prague .  “Unipetrol performed well in the refinery segment, while
the petrochemical and retail segments were quite weak,” Vaclav Kminek, an analyst at Erste Group Bank AG, said in a note. “It
is very likely that the weakness would continue in years to come
as the overcapacity in  Europe  will persist for a longer period
of time.”  Third-quarter earnings before interest and tax were 942
million koruna thanks to the gain on inventory revaluation, the
company said.  Kedra reiterated Unipetrol’s guidance to post a
“positive” full-year earnings before interest and tax this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  