-- United Misses as Profit Pared by Waning Demand, Fuel Gain
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-10-25T20:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/united-profit-trails-estimates-amid-higher-fuel-costs.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) 
Chief Executive Officer Jeff Smisek vowed to win back passengers
who switched to other airlines in recent months because of
chronic tardy flights.  The world’s largest carrier is trying to improve operations
as it meshes its United and Continental units after 28 percent
of flights arrived late during the third quarter and the number
of passengers carried dropped 3.2 percent. That on-time arrival
rate was  considered low  by U.S. industry standards, especially
in a quarter that includes summer months free of snow.  “We recognize that some of our customers chose to fly
other airlines during the summer when our operational
performance degraded,” Smisek told analysts on a quarterly
earnings conference call today. “Just like when your preferred
road to work undergoes construction, you might choose to take a
detour until the road gets repaired.”  United has increased staffing at airports and for
maintenance workers, added more spare planes and improved the
technology systems employees use for checking customers in, he
said. Salespeople are calling on corporate customers to try to
win them back by touting the Chicago-based carrier’s biggest
route network and amenities such as lie-flat seats on all
international wide-body planes by early next year, Smisek said.  Only 18 percent of United’s flights were late for
September, beating a goal of no more than 20 percent.  “We expect to earn back those customers who took a
detour,” said Smisek, who was CEO of Continental for just a few
months when he oversaw talks to merge that carrier with United.
“We are now running a reliable airline again.”  Quarterly Results  The missteps during the quarter contributed to a
1.3 percent drop in revenue for each seat flown a mile, an
industry benchmark, on its main jet and regional operations,
executives said. They declined to quantify how many passengers
flew on other carriers or how much of the revenue slide was
because of operational issues.  Third-quarter earnings excluding some items were $1.35 a
share, trailing the $1.47 average of 17 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg, the carrier said today. The shares fell
the most in almost three months.  The cost to fly each seat a mile increased 6.6 percent as
the airline paid more for salaries and wages and maintenance.  “They have to get these costs under control,” said  Helane Becker , a Dahlman Rose & Co. analyst in New York who rates
United as hold. She said travelers will be mollified once delays
and cancellations ease, because “people in general have very
short memories.”  Net Income  Including $514 million in special charges, net income fell
to $6 million, or 2 cents a share, from $653 million, or $1.69,
a year earlier, United said in a statement. Revenue declined
2.6 percent to $9.91 billion, trailing the $9.97 billion average
of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  United fell 5 percent to $19.26 at the close in New York,
its steepest slide since July 26 and the biggest drop among the
10 carriers in the Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index.  JetBlue
Airways Corp. (JBLU)  rose 1 percent to $5.25 after its profit beat
estimates.  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK) , whose earnings matched
analysts’ projections, dropped 0.5 percent to $38.17.  United is adjusting the size of planes on certain routes to
match demand, such as moving some wide-body  Boeing Co. (BA)  767s from
U.S. service to international flights. Those planes are being
replaced with single-aisle Boeing 757s operating between U.S.
hubs such as Chicago and Houston.  Cost Cutting  “Every airline has to do a little bit of cost cutting
because the world is a different place today than we thought six
months ago, but there are some encouraging signs,” said Jeff Kauffman, a Sterne, Agee & Leach Inc. analyst in New York, who
rates United as buy. “Despite all the doom and gloom, these
airlines are making some pretty good money in a pretty slow
environment.”  United is also trying to get joint labor contracts with
most of its unions more than two years after the 2010 merger of
former United parent UAL Corp. and Continental Airlines Inc.  Management reached an agreement in principle with Air Line
Pilots Association negotiators in August, and both sides are
working on the contract language. United recorded an expense of
$454 million in the third quarter related to the new contract
and lump-sum payouts pilots will receive when they ratify the
accord and integrate seniority lists.  Executives declined to say more about the contract
discussions on the conference call, or to say whether the
pilots’ agreement will include some areas of savings or
increased productivity to mitigate the higher pay.  JetBlue Profit  JetBlue said third-quarter profit climbed 29 percent as
passenger traffic increased and revenue rose to a record after
the carrier added flights to  Boston  and the Caribbean. The New
York-based company also plans to buy back as many as 25 million
shares over five years in its first stock repurchase program.  Net income climbed to $45 million, or 14 cents a share,
from $35 million, or 11 cents, a year earlier, according to a
statement. That exceeded the 13-cent average estimate from
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  JetBlue said it would increase capacity between 5 percent
and 7 percent this quarter, and 7 percent to 9 percent for the
full year.  “We know what it feels like to grow too fast,” CEO Dave Barger said on a conference call. “We’re being quite
responsible with the growth we have in place. To leave something
unbuilt is irresponsible.”  Alaska Air  Alaska Air reported a profit of $2.09 a share excluding
some items, matching the average estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Traffic rose 7.2 percent as the Seattle-based carrier added
flights to  Washington , D.C., and Fort Lauderdale,  Florida . Net
income more than doubled to $163.4 million, or $2.27 a share,
from $77.5 million, or $1.06, a year earlier.  Alaska Air is refining its service between California and
Hawaiian destinations such as Honolulu and Maui to better match
flight times and capacity to seasonal demand on each route,
Chief Financial Officer Brandon Pedersen said in a telephone
interview.  “What we want to do is just get a little smarter now,
experiment with plane size and flight schedules,” he said. “At
a top level, our Hawaii franchise is performing very well.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 