-- Uribe Says Rebel Attacks Threaten Colombia Investor Confidence
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-10-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/uribe-says-rebel-attacks-threaten-colombia-investor-confidence.html
Former Colombian President  Alvaro Uribe  said he may run for congress to defend his government’s
legacy as an upsurge in guerrilla attacks threatens to damp
investor confidence in the country.  Improvements in security that ushered in a period of strong
growth are being squandered by President  Juan Manuel Santos ,
said Uribe, adding that his former defense minister’s efforts to
strike a peace deal with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of
Colombia, or FARC, are misguided.  “What Colombia gained could be lost,” Uribe, who handed
power to his one-time ally Santos in 2010, said in an interview
in  Mexico  City yesterday. “If, to defend these ideas, I have to
go to Congress, I can’t close that door.”  Uribe came to power in 2002 and leveraged a U.S.-backed
military offensive to retake from armed groups control of
 Colombia ’s highways and large parts of the countryside, helping
attract foreign investment and promote economic growth that
averaged 4.6 percent a year during his two terms. His successor
Santos this month started the first peace talks with the
guerrillas since 2002, even after attacks on oil pipelines more
than quadrupled to 88 in the first seven months of the year.  The rise in violence “could be a clear signal against
investment confidence,” said the 60-year-old Uribe, who
recently published a book on his time in government called “No
Lost Causes” and last month was named by billionaire  Rupert Murdoch  to the board of  News Corp. (NWSA)   Uribe is barred by the constitution from seeking a third
term, and ruled out a run for Vice President.  Foreign Investment  Attacks on oil infrastructure fell during Uribe’s
presidency, as the army gained the upper hand in a half-century
war with the guerrillas. Improved security for oil and mining
companies helped attract a record $13.2 billion in 2011 from
investors including billionaires  Carlos Slim  and  Eike Batista .  Sitting down for peace talks with the FARC, which the U.S.
and European Union consider a terrorist group, is demoralizing
the armed forces on whose strength Colombians’ security depends,
Uribe said. The talks, which began this month in Oslo, will
resume in  Havana  on Nov. 15.  “Appeasement has been historically the worst way to deal
with old and new communists,” said Uribe, whose father was
killed by the FARC on his family’s ranch in the 1980s.
“Everyone agrees with peace, but I disagree with impunity.”  Santos Reaction  Santos’s High Commissioner for Communications Juan Felipe
Munoz dismissed Uribe’s criticisms the government is
jeopardizing security and economic gains. Munoz, in a phone
interview, pointed out that under Santos’ watch the military
killed the FARC’s top two commanders, making Colombians safer.  Munoz also said that investment has risen to record levels
under Santos. FDI rose 34 percent from a year ago in the second
quarter to $4.1 billion. Growth has also remained strong amid a
global slowdown, with  gross domestic product  expanding 4.9
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, outpacing
much of  Latin America , including the region’s two biggest
economies, Brazil and Mexico.  Santos’s peace effort has helped spur a rebound in his
approval ratings. The proportion of Colombians with a favorable
image of the president rose to 63 percent last month, up 18
points from August, according to a poll by Datexco Co. published
this month. The Sept. 24-26 survey of 1,000 people has a margin
of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  Uribe said that  Venezuela  remains a haven for “terrorists”
and drug traffickers, and that Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s re-election this month to a third six-year term wasn’t
fair.  “I don’t have reasons to say there was fraud, but everyone
has reasons to say these were unfair elections,” said Uribe.
“While President Chavez every day had 57 minutes on TV, the
candidate of the opposition has had 2 or 3 minutes.”  Uribe in office frequently clashed with Chavez, accusing
his neighbor of standing by as Marxist guerrilla groups freely
operate in his territory. Chavez ordered tanks to the countries’
border in 2008 after a bombing raid by Colombia’s air force on a
rebel camp inside  Ecuador .  Santos said last month that Colombia and Venezuela had been
“thinking of war” before he took steps to mend relations at
the start of his presidential term in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 