-- Hurricane Sandy Heads Toward Cuba, May Strike U.S. Next Week
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-10-25T09:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/hurricane-sandy-heads-toward-cuba-may-strike-u-s-next-week.html
Hurricane Sandy, which closed
businesses and airports in  Jamaica  as it moved north in the
Caribbean, may strike the U.S. East Coast next week with the
potential to cause millions of dollars in damage.  Sandy’s maximum sustained winds reached 105 miles (165
kilometers) per hour as it moved inland over southeastern Cuba,
according to a U.S. National Hurricane Center  advisory  at 5 a.m.
Eastern time. It was about 40 miles east of Holguin, Cuba, and
moving north at 18 mph.  “The table is set for some pretty major weather,” Henry
Margusity, an expert senior meteorologist at  AccuWeather Inc.  in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania , said yesterday. “Is it going to be
an epic storm or is going to be just your typical nor’easter? We
will have the answers next week.”  Sandy, a Category 2 system on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson
scale , is forecast to remain a hurricane as it moved through the
Bahamas, according to the hurricane center. The storm may then
move parallel to the U.S. East Coast and either be pushed into
the Atlantic Ocean or pulled into the coastline.  A computer model based in  Europe  took the storm up Delaware
Bay, while another by the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration  had Sandy curve into Portland, Maine, Margusity
said. Both events would take place early next week.  The Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency said
residents should monitor the storm’s progress.  Weather Patterns  One of the major weather patterns determining where Sandy
will end up is the North Atlantic Oscillation, which is
currently blocking weather systems moving off the U.S. The
system may turn Sandy into the U.S. coast, Margusity said.  A storm on that potential track may do millions in damage
from downed trees, power outages and flooding, he said.  The storm is expected to dump up to 12 inches of rain on
 Haiti , the  Dominican Republic  and eastern Cuba, the Center said.
As much as 3 inches of rain are possible over  Florida .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  