-- Verizon Told of Risks Before Idearc Spinoff, Lawyer Says
-- B y   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-10-25T22:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/verizon-told-of-risks-before-idearc-spinoff-lawyer-says.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
disclosed to investors the risks in the directory business that
filed for bankruptcy after a 2006 spinoff, including declining
revenue, a lawyer involved in the transaction said.  Steven Slutzky, a partner with Debevoise & Plimpton LLP,
which handled regulatory disclosures for the deal, countered
claims by creditors of the business that Verizon hid those
risks.  “I think the disclosure was very extensive and very
thorough,” Slutzky testified today in federal court in  Dallas .  Verizon is fighting a lawsuit brought by creditors of the
unit, Idearc Inc., who claim the second-largest U.S. phone
company loaded the business with debt, driving it into
bankruptcy in 2009.  The reorganization of Idearc, now named  SuperMedia Inc. (SPMD) ,
created a trust to bring lawsuits on behalf of creditors with
claims totaling $6 billion.  Slutzky pointed to a regulatory disclosure by Idearc in
November 2006 that reported that the unit’s operating revenue
was steadily declining, falling to $3.37 billion in 2005 from
$3.83 billion in 2001.  The section of the 158-page disclosure enumerating
potential risks spelled out the rise of Google Inc. and Yahoo!
Inc. as competitors to print directories, the reliance of the
directory business on small- and medium-sized business and the
negative effects of a deep recession.  Another defense witness, Katherine Harless, who headed
Verizon’s directory unit and who became president and chief
executive officer of Idearc when it was spun off, testified
today that investors’ questioned at roadshow presentations
whether Google and Yahoo would “eat our lunch.”  She said she replied that the business was exploring ways
to work with Internet companies to combine their audience reach
with Idearc’s large sales force.  The creditors’ lawsuit is U.S. Bank National Association v.
Verizon Communications Inc., 10-01842, U.S. District Court,
Northern District Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Korosec in federal court in Dallas at
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  