-- Virgin Atlantic Hones CEO Hunt to Turn Popularity to Profit
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-10-26T11:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/virgin-atlantic-hones-ceo-search-to-turn-popularity-into-profit.html
Virgin Atlantic’s next CEO will
inherit a brand more popular than profitable as the company
seeks to regain its competitive edge over rival  British Airways. (IAG)   The airline named travel brand of the year by the Chartered
Institute of Marketing may decide before Dec. 25 between one
insider and industry candidates to replace Chief Executive
Officer Steve Ridgway, the CEO said.  “Their brand is massive, but the airline is relatively
small,”  Charles Stanley  Securities analyst Douglas McNeill said
in an interview in  London . “There’s a distinct lack of scale.”  Ridgway’s replacement will need to reinvigorate a business
battered by the global economic downturn, rising fuel prices and
fast-consolidating, better-connected rivals. Virgin Atlantic
posted a loss of 80.2 million pounds ($129 million) for the year
ended February and has delayed adding bigger planes. The carrier
has also cut unprofitable routes to destinations including
Nairobi,  Kenya , and Kingston,  Jamaica .  Candidates to replace Ridgway, 61, include Julie Southern,
Virgin Atlantic’s 52-year-old chief commercial officer. Southern
joined the airline in 2000 as an  executive director  and was
promoted within three months to chief financial officer, a post
she held for a decade. Rob Fyfe, 51, who will step down as Air
New Zealand Ltd. chief executive officer at the end of the year,
could also be among the people considered, the Sunday Times
reported on Sept. 9.  Virgin Culture  “The Virgin culture is definitely very important,”
founder and majority shareholder  Richard Branson  said on a
flight from Delhi to  Mumbai . “We have people internally who
would be very, very capable of doing the job and good external
candidates as well.”  The airline may make a decision before Christmas, Ridgway
said in an interview in  India  where Virgin is reinstating a
daily flight between London and Mumbai. “I’m hoping we can find
someone with either good experience or great ideas.”  Branson said Virgin Atlantic is seeking extra Heathrow
slots and applying for more routes to India, where it will
invest 300 million pounds.  Virgin Atlantic’s executive search company will probably
present a short list of around eight internal and external
candidates, to be whittled down to as few as three for
interviews, according to Rick White, whose agency has helped
companies including Monarch Airlines Ltd. hire executives.  Enlarged Rivals  The merger of BA with Iberia in 2011 and a trans-Atlantic
agreement to coordinate schedules and prices with  American
Airlines  ramped up the competitive pressure on Virgin Atlantic
out of London’s Heathrow airport, Investec analyst James Hollins
said in a telephone interview. BA also added scarce slots at the
airport with the purchase of short-haul airline BMI in April,
boosting its control of the hub to 53 percent.  “They have to compete with BA and American and that’s a
bigger, scarier beast to deal with,” Hollins said. “BA out of
Heathrow terminal 5 is very competitive, very well-marketed and
then if you look toward the Middle East you have well-
capitalized and young fleets.”  Branson tried to gain control of BMI only to be trumped by
BA’s 172.5 million-pound offer. The company has sought to
replace feeder traffic by adding flights to Heathrow from
Manchester starting in March and lost out to  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  over
connections between London and Moscow.  Attempts to join alliances or develop partnerships have
been unsuccessful, though Branson has said he’d consider selling
shares to facilitate a deal and  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA) , a 49
percent owner, has indicated it’s willing to give up the stake.  Making Money  “You can argue that they’ve tried to sell, but it hasn’t
worked, so maybe the brief for whoever takes over will be to
just get it to make money,” Charles Stanley’s McNeill said.  Virgin Atlantic had a pretax profit of 18.5 million pounds
in fiscal 2011, following an operating loss of 132 million
pounds the previous year, when a volcanic eruption in Iceland
shut down Heathrow for several days.  “The European  airline industry  has had everything thrown
at it imaginable,” Branson said. “The government has allowed
airports to increase charges way above inflation, they’ve taxed
the passenger more and more every single year, fuel prices have
gone through the roof.”  Furthermore U.S. carriers including  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American
Airlines,  United Airlines , Delta Air Lines Inc.,  US Airways  and
 Northwest Airlines  have reorganized under  bankruptcy protection .  U.S. Woes  That allows them to “get rid of all their historic costs,
dump all the leases they don’t like and renegotiate all their
contracts and that’s something a British company doesn’t have
the luxury of ever doing,” Branson said. “Steve’s going to be
a difficult act to follow.”  The airline started the process to select Ridgway’s
successor in July and ensure a smooth handover before his
retirement early next year.  “We’ve been through several recessions that we’ve had to
navigate our way through,” Ridgway said. “There’s never a
right time to go and you never particularly go when it’s a good
or bad time, you just go when it’s right.”  Ridgway took over as CEO in October 2001, having emerged
from a group of executives dubbed the “six pack” who led the
airline in its early years. Over the course of 23 years, the
executive has witnessed the carrier grow from two 747s to a
fleet of 40 long-haul aircraft that will include  Boeing Co. (BA)  787
Dreamliners by the summer of 2014, Ridgway said.  Spa and Champagne  Under his stewardship Virgin Atlantic’s red uniforms, new-
age entertainment systems and service hearkening back to the
golden age of flying -- afternoon tea, spa treatments and Lanson
Black Label Champagne -- set a standard for innovation.  Though the Virgin brand is well-known, the airline’s scale
is modest in industry terms. BA, Heathrow’s largest operator,
carried 51.7 million people in 2011, over eight times more than
Virgin Atlantic. It’s the third-largest long distance carrier
departing out of Heathrow with 3.3 percent of the airport’s
slots, the same as Irish carrier  Aer Lingus Group Plc. (AERL)   “Virgin Atlantic requires good operations to manage the
fuel and capital management to manage the upgrade of the
fleet,” Hollins of Investec said. “That takes good
relationships and someone with a huge appetite for hard work;
the next person needs to be in there for the long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 Klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  