-- Volcano Loses Patent Countersuit Against St. Jude Medical
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-10-25T20:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/volcano-loses-patent-countersuit-against-st-jude-medical.html
Volcano Corp. (VOLC) , a maker of cardiac
catheter devices, lost a patent case when a jury decided that
 St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ)  didn’t misappropriate its inventions.  The jury of five men and three women ruled today after a
four-day trial in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware , that
the three Volcano patents in the case weren’t infringed by St.
Jude.  “We have always preferred to compete in the marketplace
with our innovative products, rather than in a courtroom,”
Scott Huennekens, Volcano’s chief executive officer, said in a
statement. “However, St. Jude Medical continues to take
aggressive legal action.”  Amy Jo Meyer, a spokeswoman for St. Paul, Minnesota-based
St. Jude, said the company isn’t commenting on the case.  St. Jude initially sued San Diego-based Volcano in July
2010, alleging violation of patents for wires threaded through
blood vessels for diagnosis of heart disease. Volcano
countersued, pursuing claims over three patents against St.
Jude.  After a trial that began Oct. 15, another jury decided
Volcano didn’t infringe two St. Jude patents and that two others
were invalid, according to a Volcano filing. Trial on Volcano’s
claims began Oct. 22 with a new jury.  Volcano also said today that St. Jude agreed that previous
versions of a pressure-sensing guide wire infringed a Volcano
patent. A trial on damages hasn’t been scheduled.  Volcano fell 27 cents to $28.73 today in  New York  trading.
St. Jude declined $1.44, or 3.6 percent, to $38.27.  The original case is St. Jude Medical v. Volcano Corp., 10-
cv-631, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford at   pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  