-- Wells Fargo Hires Cummings to Expand Abbot Downing Unit
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-10-25T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/wells-fargo-hires-cummings-to-expand-abbot-downing-unit.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the bank with the
biggest U.S. branch network, hired Paul Cummings as regional
managing director for the Northeast to bring families with at
least $50 million into its Abbot Downing advisory unit.  “My primary goal is to expand and grow throughout the
Northeast -- to build out in other core wealth markets such as
New York, the greater tri-state region as well as
Massachusetts,” Cummings said in an interview.  Wells Fargo, based in San Francisco, started Abbot Downing
in April after combining its former family office and Lowry Hill
private asset management businesses. Abbot Downing generally
courts families with at least $50 million in investable assets
or $100 million in net worth. It manages $31 billion in assets,
according to a statement today announcing the hire.  Cummings, 44, most recently was a managing director at  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , having joined the Charlotte, North Carolina-
based company in 2006. He previously was a managing director of
the adviser wealth services group at  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. (BK)  He joined Abbot Downing on Oct. 19 and will have offices
in Philadelphia and New York.  Wells Fargo also has been trying to build its private bank
in New York, which caters to clients with at least $5 million
invested with the unit. More established rivals in the region,
such as the private banks of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Citigroup
Inc., generally work with people who have at least $25 million.
Abbot Downing estimates there are almost 9,200 households with
$25 million or more in assets in the Northeast, said Julie
Yeager-Andrews, a spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  