-- WPP Cuts Sales Growth Forecast as Clients Slash Spending
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-25T07:14:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/wpp-cuts-full-year-sales-growth-forecast-amid-advertising-slump.html
WPP Plc (WPP) , the largest advertising
company, slashed its full-year sales growth target for the
second time in two months as clients in North America and Europe
cut spending. The stock dropped as much as 5.2 percent.  Revenue growth for the year, excluding the effect of
currency fluctuations and acquisitions, will be 2.5 percent to 3
percent, down from an earlier forecast of about 3.5 percent, the
company said in a statement today.  Chief Executive Officer  Martin Sorrell  has been pushing the
Dublin-based company into new areas, such as Malaysia and
Brazil, to counter slowing growth in more established markets.
Businesses are starting to express concerns about the health of
the  U.S. economy , which contributed to a “tough month” in
September, Sorrell said today. In August, WPP cut its full-year
sales growth forecast to about 3.5 percent from 4 percent.  “North America looks to be the main culprit for the
downgrade,” said Ian Whittaker, an analyst at  Liberum Capital ,
who advises investors to buy the shares. The forecast cut “will
be taken dissapointingly, but the share price has come off to a
degree on expectations things were not great.”  WPP dropped as much as 42 pence to 766 pence in  London , the
biggest intraday decline since October last year, and was down
3.7 percent as of 8:11 a.m. Through yesterday, the stock had
risen 20 percent this year, while the U.K. FTSE 100 benchmark
index had gained 4.2 percent.  Acquisition Spree  Third-quarter sales were 2.5 billion pounds ($4 billion),
the owner of the  Ogilvy & Mather  and Grey Group ad agencies said
in the statement. Analysts in a Bloomberg survey had estimated
2.56 billion pounds in revenue.  Sorrell has said that 2013 will be a more challenging year
as the company comes off the spending highs of the Olympics and
the U.S. Presidential election. He pledged in March to spend 300
million pounds to 400 million pounds on acquisitions this year.
WPP completed 56 deals in the first three quarters of the year,
the company said today.  WPP will continue to make acquisitions at the same rate
next year, focusing on faster-growing markets outside of Western
Europe and  North America , as well as digital agencies, Sorrell
said.  “The concern of U.S. corporations or U.S.-based
multinationals has switched from Europe to the United States,”
Sorrell said in an interview. “It’s not a great time, frankly,
for that concern to crystallize because people are preparing
budgets for next year.”  French rival  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  will report results
tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  