-- Wynn Macau Shares Gain After Parent Pays Special Dividend
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n   a n d   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-10-25T09:35:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/wynn-macau-profit-declines-as-high-rollers-cut-back.html
Wynn Macau Ltd. (1128)  rose to a five-month
high in Hong Kong trading on optimism that billionaire Steve
Wynn’s Macau casino operator could pay a special dividend after
its Las Vegas parent boosted its payout to investors.  Wynn Macau, a unit of  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , closed 2.5 percent
higher at HK$22.2, the highest level since May 9. The city’s
Hang Seng Index rose 0.2 percent.  Parent Wynn Resorts boosted its special cash dividend to
$7.50 a share from $5 a year earlier after reporting better-
than-expected earnings in the third quarter. Higher spending by
Chinese gamblers has helped the Asian unit to more than  double
its cash  to HK$5.26 billion in the three years to 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The company’s parent declared a higher-than-expected
special dividend, raising the guidance for the future quarterly
dividend payment,” said Victor Yip, a Hong Kong-based analyst
for UOB-Kay Hian. “That brings expectation to the market that
Wynn  Macau  could also raise its future dividend payout.”  Wynn Resorts’s third-quarter profit excluding some items
was $1.48 a share, beating the $1.34 average of 23 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Macau accounted for 72 percent
of the company’s sales last year.  Wynn Macau may pay a special dividend of HK$1.2 to HK$1.4 a
share this year, compared with HK$1.2 a year earlier, Karen
Tang, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, estimated.  Net income at Wynn Macau fell 3 percent to $203.3 million a
year earlier as high rollers spent less, the unit said in a
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange today. The company’s
casino revenue dropped 4 percent to $857.3 million.  VIP Market  The revenue decline reflects slowing growth in the world’s
largest gambling hub, where high rollers, or VIP bettors, from
 China ’s mainland have cut back. Still, VIP table game wins for
the company as a percentage of turnover was 3.08 percent,
exceeding the company’s expected range and that recorded in the
third quarter of 2011, Wynn Macau said.  “We still believe the period of most drastic earnings
downgrade for Wynn is behind us,” Goldman Sachs wrote in a note
today, referring to the Hong Kong unit. Wynn Macau sees signs of
stabilization in the VIP market and believes it is “far from
fully penetrated,” Goldman said.  Across Macau casinos, revenue from the so-called mass
market rose 27 percent, while demand from high-stakes gamblers
contracted, Deutsche Bank AG estimated Oct. 22. Macau’s gaming
revenue rose 12 percent last month, less than the estimates of
some analysts.  Land Grant  Wynn Macau won a land grant from Macau’s government to
build its second resort in the former Portuguese colony, the
company said May 2. The casino operator will join  Sands China
Ltd. (1928) ,  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , and  Melco Crown
Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  in expanding into the city’s increasingly
popular Cotai Strip.  The company’s adjusted Macau property earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization fell 1.3 percent to
$292.2 million compared with a year earlier, Wynn Resorts said.
Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. today posted adjusted earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or
Ebitda, of HK$2.6 billion, an increase of 46 percent from a year
earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  