-- Yanukovych to Keep Ukraine Grip as Core East Repels Divided Foes
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-10-25T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/yanukovych-to-keep-ukraine-grip-as-core-east-repels-divided-foes.html
Ukrainian President  Viktor Yanukovych ’s ruling party is poised to retain control of
parliament as supporters in his eastern heartland rally to quell
challenges from a world boxing champion and a jailed ex-premier.  The Party of Regions, which rules the once Soviet republic
in coalition with the Communists, leads by 7 percentage points
before the Oct. 28 vote. Heavyweight titleholder Vitali Klitschko’s UDAR is second, with former Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko ’s party third, having failed to team up to break the
president’s grip on the 450-seat Verkhovna Rada, based in the
capital Kiev.  Yanukovych, 62, who’s roused the largely ethnic-Russian
regions around his native Donetsk by bolstering the status of
the Russian language, trumpets stability, economic expansion and
this summer’s Euro 2012 soccer tournament among his party’s
achievements. While graft has worsened, European ties have
soured and growth may reverse in the second half of the year,
opponents have struggled since Tymoshenko was locked up in 2011.  “There’s no strong alternative to the Party of Regions in
eastern and southern Ukraine, which determine the outcome of the
elections,” Vadym Omelchenko, president of the Gorshenin
Institute that researches social and political issues, said
yesterday by phone from Kiev. “Voters are disoriented by the
split opposition and it’s in the interests of the Party of
Regions not to allow them to unite.”  Bonds, Stocks  Ukraine’s foreign-currency bonds have returned 24 percent
this year, the most after Venezuelan debt, according to  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global Index, which gauges the yield
difference relative to U.S. Treasuries.  Still, after expanding 5.2 percent last year and 4.7
percent in 2010, the economy will contract in the second half
because of lower prices for steel, Ukraine’s main export earner,
 Erste Bank AG (EBS)  and  HSBC Holdings (HSBA)  have predicted. The  Ukrainian
Equities Index (UX)  is  down  46 percent this year, more than any
benchmark in the world, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
hryvnia has lost 1.6 percent against the dollar.  Since coming to power in 2010, Yanukovych has presided over
worsening ties with his two largest neighbors. Ukraine is
haggling over the price of natural gas with  Russia , which
supplies more than half of its fuel needs. A planned Association
Agreement with the European Union has been delayed indefinitely
because of Tymoshenko’s imprisonment for abuse of office.  International Standards  Her case, which she says was engineered by the president to
keep her out of this week’s ballot, has boosted Yanukovych’s
prospects in this week’s ballot. He denies involvement.  “We regret that the convictions of opposition leaders
during trials that did not meet international standards are
preventing them from standing in parliamentary elections,” U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and EU foreign affairs chief
 Catherine Ashton  wrote Oct. 24 in the  New York Times. (NYT)   The Party of Regions was backed by 23.3 percent of voters,
compared with 16 percent for Klitschko’s UDAR, 15.1 percent for
Tymoshenko’s Batkivshchyna, and 10.1 percent for the communists,
a survey by the Kiev-based Democratic Initiative Fund showed.  Twenty-four percent of voters are undecided, according to
the Sept. 18-Oct. 4 poll, whose margin of error was 2.2 percent.  Tymoshenko’s Batkivshchyna party joined forces with Arseniy Yatsenyuk’s Front Zmin in April. While the nationalist party
Svoboda signed a coalition pact with them Oct. 19, Klitschko,
whose party’s name means punch, hasn’t followed suit.  ‘Roof Down’  “To sign any agreements before the elections is like
building a house from the roof down,” Klitschko said Oct. 21 in
the western region of Zakarpattya. “A coalition should be
formed after entering parliament.”  Opposition politicians have sought to capitalize on
worsening graft as Ukraine’s ranking in Transparency
International’s Corruption Perceptions Index dropped to 152 from
134 under Yanukovych.  Making inroads into his core support, which in July cheered
a Party of Regions-backed bill to make Russian a second official
language in the eastern half and southern regions, may be tricky
in the run-up to presidential elections in three years’ time,
according to Kostyantyn Dykan, an analyst at the Razumkov Center
for Economic and Political studies.  “It all points to Yanukovych being the main candidate for
2015,” he said yesterday by phone from Kiev. “The situation
allows him to look to the future with optimism.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  