-- Yen Strengthens From Four-Month Low on Demand for Safety
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-10-26T21:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/yen-set-for-biggest-weekly-drop-in-2-months-on-boj-wagers.html
The yen rose from a four-month low
against the dollar as disappointing U.S. corporate results and
record unemployment in  Spain  boosted the allure of the relative
safety of Japan’s currency.  The Japanese currency still had a five-day loss versus the
greenback amid bets the  Bank of Japan (8301)  will increase monetary
stimulus next week. South Africa’s rand climbed.  Europe ’s shared
currency dropped after Spanish unemployment data showed a record
one in four residents was out of  work  last quarter.  “Given that Japan is a capital exporter, has a very large
foreign asset position, if there are rising risks, even for
domestic reasons, you tend to see money flowing back,” said
 Aroop Chatterjee , a currency strategist at Barclays Plc in  New
York . “The yen is the move that stands out today. The chances
are still fairly high that the BOJ goes in for additional
easing, so I would not be fully unwinding bets on that just
yet.”  Japan’s currency gained 0.8 percent to 79.65 per dollar at
5 p.m. New York time after touching 80.38 earlier, the weakest
since June 25. It lost 0.4 percent this week. The yen advanced
0.8 percent to 103.05 per euro and touched 102.69, the strongest
since Oct. 16. It rose 0.2 percent on the week. The greenback
was little changed at $1.2938 to the 17-nation currency after
reaching $1.2883 earlier, the strongest level since Oct. 11. It
gained 0.7 percent over the past five days.  Yield Spread  The yen was also supported against the dollar as U.S.
Treasuries’ yield advantage over  Japan ’s government securities
narrowed, making American debt less attractive to Asian
investors. The  yield spread  between U.S. and Japanese 10-year
bonds shrank to 99 basis points, or 0.99 percentage point, from
104 basis points yesterday.  The Japanese currency typically gains in times of
political, financial and economic turmoil because the nation’s
historical trade surplus means the nation doesn’t have to rely
on overseas lenders.  The Bank of Japan will release a forecast for the nation’s
consumer prices and growth on Oct. 30, when it holds its second
policy meeting this month.  The Nikkei newspaper reported
yesterday the central bank may increase its asset-purchase
target by 10 trillion yen ($125 billion) to 90 trillion yen.  “Recently the data has been somewhat more mixed, and the
market has been concerned about corporate earnings,” said
 Sebastien Galy , a senior foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “The yen had been weakening because of
the expectation of the expansion of the balance sheet by the BOJ
relative to the Fed, which was also in line with rising
expectations for the  U.S. economy .”  Dollar Index  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S.
trading partners, was little changed at 79.997 after earlier
rising above its 50-day moving average of 80.155. It touched
80.270, the highest level since Sept. 11.  The  gauge  may climb to a seven-week high between 80.65 and
80.70 after rising through resistance at 80.20,  Niall O’Connor ,
a New York-based technical analyst at JPMorgan, wrote today in a
note to clients. The 200-day moving average is 80.65. Resistance
is an area on a chart where sell orders may be clustered.  South Africa’s rand climbed 1.2 percent to 8.6431 to the
dollar after the U.S. economy grew more than forecast in the
third quarter. America is the second-largest destination for the
nation’s exports.  Kiwi Gains  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, gained 0.6
percent to 82.29 U.S. cents, approaching the three-week high of
82.43 cents that it reached yesterday.  U.S. gross domestic product expanded at a 2 percent annual
pace after gaining 1.3 percent in the prior quarter, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington . A Bloomberg
survey had forecast a rise to 1.8 percent. The economy grew at a
4.1 percent pace from October through December 2011.  The euro has tumbled 2.1 percent this year against nine
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The yen lost the most, 5.6 percent, and the
dollar fell 1.9 percent. New Zealand’s dollar was the biggest
winner, rallying 4.5 percent.  Spain’s unemployment rate rose to 25.02 percent, from 24.6
percent in the previous quarter, the National Statistics
Institute said in  Madrid  today. It was the highest level since
at least 1976, the year after dictator  Francisco Franco ’s death
led Spain to democracy.  “We’ve seen the euro a bit lower,” said  Peter Frank , a
foreign-exchange strategist at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA (BBVA)  in  London . “What’s been a marginal underperformance in the
growth outlook in the  euro zone  in the past few quarters is
turning into quite a big gulf” as other major economies show
signs of recovery, he said.  Crisis Outlook  Speculation increased that Europe’s three-year-old
sovereign-debt crisis may worsen after German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said there are doubts about whether  Greece ,
where the turmoil began, has met its commitments for an
international bailout.  “We do want Greece to be able to stay in the euro zone,”
Schaeuble said in an e-mail release of an interview to be
broadcast Oct. 30 on ZDF television. “But Greece has a lot to
do. It’s not decided.”  The Canadian dollar weakened for a fourth day against the
greenback, the longest losing streak since May, on concern
demand for the nation’s natural resources will decline as
investors question global-growth prospects. Futures on crude
oil, Canada’s biggest export, touched $85 a barrel in New York,
almost a three-month low.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, weakened 0.2 percent to 99.69
cents per  U.S. dollar .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fluctuated as investors
watched economic and earnings reports. Goodyear Tire & Rubber
Co., the biggest U.S. tiremaker, reported third-quarter profit
below analysts’ estimates. Apple Inc. forecast earnings
yesterday that fell short of analyst estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  