-- Yuan Forwards Climb to May High as Melco Surges
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-10-25T21:11:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-25/yuan-forwards-climb-to-may-high-as-melco-surges.html
Investors increased bullish bets on
 China ’s currency, pushing  yuan  forwards to a five-month high, on
prospects rising industrial output will help the world’s second-
biggest economy meet its growth target this year.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the yuan
strengthened 0.24 percent to 6.3515 per dollar yesterday in  New
York , after the currency climbed to a 19-year high in  Shanghai 
and touched the strong end of its trading range for the first
time. The Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. rose for a second day, led by
 Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883)  after the casino operator said it
plans to invest in and operate projects in the Philippines.  The yuan is poised for its best month against the dollar
since December as data from industrial production to retail
sales indicates  China’s economy  may be reviving after a seven-
quarter slowdown. Growth in factory output will be faster this
quarter than in the three months to Sept. 30, helping the
world’s biggest exporter achieve its 7.5 percent economic
expansion target,  Zhu Hongren , chief engineer at China’s
Industry and Information Technology Ministry, said yesterday.  “The economy has picked up, but more importantly the
perception has picked up,”  Steven Bell , who manages $600
million in assets as principal portfolio manager at GLC Ltd., a
London-based hedge fund, said by phone yesterday. “Earlier this
year, people’s worry about China’s economy increased, which
caused a decline in yuan demand. The trend of fund outflows has
now reversed and China will probably attract more inflows.”  China ETF Gains  The Bloomberg China index advanced 0.3 percent to 96, while
the  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.9 percent to $37.53
in its second day of gains in New York.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose 0.3 percent to
1,412.97 after  Procter & Gamble Co ., the largest consumer-
products maker, and Aetna Inc., the third-biggest U.S. health
insurer, reported earnings results that beat analysts’
forecasts.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares slumped 0.7
percent to a one-week low of 2,101.58. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong
retreated 0.2 percent to 10,616.43, also the weakest level in a
week.  The Conference Board’s leading index for China increased
0.3 percent last month from August, the New York-based research
group said in a statement yesterday, citing a preliminary
reading. That compared with a 1.7 percent gain in the previous
month. A preliminary purchasing managers’ index published on
Oct. 24 indicated sentiment in the sector improved in September.  ‘Behind Us’  Gains in the yuan’s NDFs narrowed their  discount  to the
onshore rate to 1.7 percent, from a gap of as much as 2 percent
on Oct. 23. That discount was the widest since March 2009.  “The whole Chinese PMI this week and other data suggest
the significant weakness in manufacturing is behind us,” said
Bell, adding the forwards’ discount will probably narrow to
trade at a premium to the rate in Shanghai.  Melco Crown jumped 6.2 percent to $14.76 in New York, the
strongest close since May 3. The company’s American depositary
receipts, each representing three underlying shares, traded 4.5
percent above its  Hong Kong  stock, the biggest premium since
Sept. 7.  A unit of the Melco signed an agreement with SM Investments
Corp., Belle Corp. and PremiumLeisure and Amusement Inc. to
invest in and operate casino facilities in  Manila , according to
a statement yesterday. Melco’s investment in the project may be
as much as $600 million, $325 million of which will be funded by
issuing debt, the company said.  Cnooc Loans  ADRs of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil explorer,
added 1.4 percent to $209.23 in New York, the highest close in
more than five months.  The Beijing-based company has received loan commitments of
more than $15 billion to acquire  Canada ’s Nexen Inc., according
to two people familiar with the matter. Cnooc has shortlisted
about 15 banks for the financing plan, the people said, asking
not to be identified because the details are private.  Cheng Khoo, an analyst at BNP Paribas SA, raised the 12-
month  price target  for Cnooc’s Hong Kong-traded stock to
HK$18.50, or $2.39, from HK$17.80 yesterday, and maintained a
buy recommendation. Analysts at China International Capital
Corp. and ICBC International Holdings Ltd. also lifted their
price estimates. Each Cnooc ADR represents 100 Hong Kong shares.  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA) , the nation’s second-largest
air carrier, advanced 3 percent to a three-month high of $17.82.  LDK Plants  China’s airlines will show substantial profit improvements
on rising traffic, lower fuel costs and appreciation in the
Chinese yuan, analysts at UOB-Kay Hian Holdings Ltd. said in a
note on Oct. 24.  China Eastern  is scheduled to post third-
quarter results on Oct. 30.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the world’s second-largest maker of wafers
for photo-voltaic cells, retreated 3.6 percent to 86 U.S. cents
in New York, after rising over the three previous days.  The company, based in Xinyu, China, agreed to sell three
solar plants at its manufacturing sites to Henan Xindaxin
Materials Co. for 140 million yuan ($22.4 million) as part of an
effort to improve its balance sheet, according to a statement on
Xindaxin’s website yesterday. LDK will lease the plants back
from Xindaxin for 9.9 million yuan a year for six years,
starting Nov. 1, and has the option to repurchase them,
according to the statement.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd., the nation’s second-biggest
wireless carrier, lost 2.7 percent to $16.82 in New York, the
steepest slump in a month. The company reported a 27 percent
increase in third-quarter profit to 2.02 billion yuan yesterday,
missing the 2.21 billion-yuan median of seven analysts’
estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Bloomberg China-US gauge fell
to 15.2 yesterday from 16.36 the previous day, and compares with
this year’s average of 23.1. The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse
Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a basket of companies that gained
U.S. listings after buying firms that already trade, gained 0.5
percent to a three-day high of 71.87.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  