-- ‘Stupid’ Doggie Seat-Belt Bill Won’t Get Christie Backing
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/-stupid-doggie-seat-belt-bill-won-t-get-christie-backing.html
New Jersey’s cats and dogs won’t
have to submit to seatbelt-like harnesses when they ride in the
car so long as Chris Christie is governor.  Christie said he won’t sign a “stupid” proposal pending
in the Legislature that would require motorists to secure the
animals while in moving vehicles.  Democrats who control the Senate and General Assembly are
wasting their time with the measure, said the first-term
Republican confronting a shortfall in revenue and whose
constituents face the highest residential property taxes in the
nation and the worst unemployment rate in three decades.  “This will tell you everything you need to know about how
New Jersey runs under the Democrats,” Christie, 50, said
yesterday in his monthly “Ask the Governor” broadcast on
Ewing-based WKXW-FM radio. “They’re actually spending their
time on this.”  “Let’s not cut taxes,” Christie said. “Let’s not plug
the holes in the property-tax cap. Let’s not get shared services
so we can reduce property taxes. Let’s not pass ethics reform so
these part-time legislators will have to tell you what money
they’re getting and where they’re getting it from.”  Assemblywoman L. Grace Spencer,  a Newark Democrat who owns
a Pomeranian named A.J. along with five cats and a rabbit,
introduced the bill to require the harnesses for animals not
being transported in cages. Violators would get a $25 ticket
that might escalate to higher fines.  No Signature  If the bill makes it through the Legislature for him to
sign into law, Christie said, he wouldn’t put “my name near
something that stupid.”  Spencer, 44, a liability-law attorney, said securing
animals is “a bigger issue than people realize,” comparing it
with distractions such as texting while driving.  Christie is pressing for a tax cut to help create jobs.
Revenue collections in the first two months of the fiscal year
are almost $100 million behind the governor’s forecast,
according to the state Treasury.  New Jersey’s credit outlook was lowered last week to
negative by Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  