-- Activist’s Nine-Year Navy FOIA Fight Ends in Supreme Court Win
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-09-28T02:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/activist-s-nine-year-navy-foia-fight-ends-in-supreme-court-win.html
Glen Milner wanted to know the
dangers posed by the Navy’s Indian Island munitions facility
near Port Townsend, Washington. So in 2003, he filed a Freedom
of  Information request .  Milner, who lives about 50 miles south of the ordnance
depot, finally received documents outlining those risks -- nine
years later. To get there, the citizen activist needed the help
of the U.S. Supreme Court to obtain information about the
hazards of living near the arsenal.  “It turned out to be a real prolonged fight,” said
Milner, 61, an unemployed electrician who spends his days trying
to pry information out of government agencies. “The process
just drags on and on.”  Milner’s effort to access government safety records
illustrates the obstacles ordinary citizens can face when
petitioning the government for documents under the  Freedom of
Information Act . Individuals can find themselves ignored by
government bureaucracy or, once denied, unable to afford the
costs of an extended legal wrangle.  Those hassles discourage citizens from using the law
designed to keep the government accountable, said Barbara
Petersen, president of the  First Amendment Foundation  in
Tallahassee,  Florida .  Delaying is “one way of denying,” she said. “A lot of
people just give up.”  Takes Time  While a nine-year wait may be extreme, it’s not unusual for
the government to take its time responding to Freedom of
Information requests. In 2011, the administration received
644,165 FOIA inquiries. Agencies and departments processed
372,422 requests within the 20-day the deadline set by the law,
according to FOIA.gov, the website that tracks the status of
Freedom of Information requests.  Another 13,539 queries took more than 400 days to complete,
meaning the agency released all or some of the information or
denied the request entirely.  A Bloomberg News survey of 57 major federal agencies
requesting the travel records of top officials for fiscal 2011
found that just eight of those departments complied within the
20-day period mandated by the Freedom of Information Act. Travel
costs generated by Cabinet members including Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , Energy Secretary Steven Chu and Environmental
Protection Agency Administrator  Lisa Jackson  remain undisclosed.  Expanded Exemption  Milner wasn’t deterred when the Navy denied his request and
rejected his appeals. He notified  David Mann , his Seattle-based
attorney, that the Navy was denying his requests for ordnance
blast-zone maps by using an exemption related to personnel
rules.  There are nine exemptions to FOIA, including provisions to
protect  trade secrets , information related to supervision of
financial institutions, and matters of national defense.  “My response was, ’I’ll take that case,’” Mann said. Mann
worked pro bono and is now negotiating a fee settlement with the
Navy.  After two court decisions upheld the Navy’s argument,
Milner eventually wound up at the  U.S. Supreme Court .  Earlier court rulings had interpreted Exemption 2, the one
cited by the Navy, as allowing the department to withhold
documents beyond matters simply relating to hiring or firing or
performance reviews. The Navy argued that the restrictions could
also include safety-review documents because their disclosure
could threaten the security and safety of personnel.  Broad Use  News organizations and other open-records advocacy groups
filed briefs on Milner’s behalf. The  Reporters Committee for
Freedom of the Press,  an Arlington, Virginia-based First
Amendment group, criticized the interpretation of Exemption 2 as
having expanded to cover “almost any record whose disclosure
could enable some unidentified party to commit a hypothetical
crime at some undefined future time.” Bloomberg News parent
Bloomberg LP joined with other news gathering organizations in
the brief.  The  Supreme Court , in a March 2011 decision, rejected the
broad interpretation of the exemption, known as a “high 2,”
used by the Navy in denying Milner’s request. The court did say
the Navy might be able to use other exemptions to keep the maps
secret.  Secrecy Provision  Milner’s battle didn’t end there.  After the ruling, Congress added language to a 2012 defense
authorization act allowing the Pentagon to withhold information
relating to critical infrastructure, including the maps Milner
originally sought.  The Navy eventually turned over a document showing the
department’s plan to scuttle a ship if it caught fire as
munitions were loaded or unloaded at the facility and
information about the total explosive potential of the munitions
on the base.  “The Navy chose to release limited information in order to
protect the people and property on the base as well as in the
nearby community,” said Amanda Greenberg, a Navy spokeswoman.
“We made a conscious decision not to release certain maps and
explosive data for similar reasons.”  Milner said his case eventually revealed the risks
associated with the base and rolled back the use of high 2,
which he said had been abused by agencies. Mann, Milner’s
attorney, said the Navy refused to turn over the ordnance blast
maps, citing the new infrastructure exemption.  Agencies used Exemption 2 to block releases 64,260 times in
2010, according to  FOIA.gov . That number fell to 24,440 in
fiscal 2011.  Milner said he files as many as 15 open-records requests a
year. At the moment he’s trying to get information on a Navy
plan to expand a munitions handling wharf at Naval Base Kitsap
in  Washington .  “I’m successful a good percentage of the time if I stay at
it,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  