-- Adoboli’s ETF Desk Became Profit Oasis for UBS: Lawyer
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-09-28T15:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/adoboli-s-etf-desk-became-profit-oasis-for-ubs-lawyer.html
Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS AG (UBSN) 
trader on trial for fraud, went to “more elaborate lengths to
make money” than others did as he produced large profits for
the bank’s ETF desk, his ex-colleague John Hughes told a judge.  Hughes, testifying for a third day at Adoboli’s fraud and
false accounting trial in London, agreed with comments by
Adoboli’s lawyer that the exchange-traded-fund desk was an
“oasis of profit” mainly as a result of Adoboli.  “Everybody, on average, was getting it wrong, but you,”
Charles Sherrard said of the ETF desk to Hughes, who testified
wearing a black blazer. The pair’s success was the envy of other
traders who wanted to “take over” the desk, Sherrard said.  Prosecutors charged Adoboli in relation to unauthorized
trades on which UBS lost $2.3 billion. The former trader
admitted hours before his arrest in September last year that he
had risked $5 billion on Standard & Poor’s 500 futures and a
further $3.75 billion in the German futures market, a former
manager testified. Adoboli has pleaded not guilty.  Sherrard read out portions of an internal UBS communication
in which another banker described Adoboli and Hughes as a
“perfect pair” with opposing personalities -- one being
disciplined and the other a “lunatic,” though the person
didn’t indicate “which was which.”  While their outward personalities would have suggested it
was the other way around, Hughes said it was well known that he
was the disciplined one. Adoboli, with his bold trading
practices, was the lunatic, he said.  Winning Floor  Sherrard described a single day in which his trading desk
went from an $800,000 loss to a $300,000 profit, while other
desks on the cash trading floor suffered. Adoboli told Hughes in
an electronic message that day, “Would have been nice though,
to win for the floor.”  Hughes testified earlier this week that Adoboli told him in
January 2011 he had a secret account he called his umbrella,
which held profits from unbooked trades Adoboli later used to
cover losses. Prosecutors say he called it his umbrella because
it would protect him “on a rainy day.”  Sherrard, has said Hughes made his own off-book trades,
knew of the umbrella account and “at times controlled it.”
Adoboli’s actions were “learned behavior,” Sherrard said.
Hughes was fired by the bank for gross misconduct.  Today, Sherrard cited an internal e-mail in which Hughes
discouraged Adoboli from “relieving” part of the umbrella
after a good trading day, saying it proved he began to assert
influence over the fund.  “There’s you exercising a degree of control over the
umbrella,” Sherrard said. He also indicated Hughes had talked
about the fund with other people, and that it wasn’t a secret
between him and Adoboli.  Hughes disagreed with Sherrard’s claim that the umbrella
helped him and Adoboli gain clients by allowing them to trade
with more confidence, boost profit and build a reputation in the
City, the name for  London ’s oldest financial district.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  