-- African Forces Enter Somali City Held by al-Qaeda Militants
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-09-28T13:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/african-forces-enter-somali-city-held-by-al-qaeda-militants-2-.html
African forces pushed al-Qaeda-
linked militants from some positions in  Somalia ’s coastal city
of Kismayo and are moving to seize the main port from rebel
control, Kenyan army spokesman Cyrus Oguna said.  Kenyan and Somali troops entered the city through sea and
land borders early this morning, facing little resistance from
al-Shabaab fighters, Oguna said today in a phone interview. An
operation to take the harbor began earlier this week, he said.  “They are in control of parts of Kismayo,” Oguna said.
“It’s a big city and they can’t be everywhere in such a short
period of time. The port is an area that we’re going to get
to.”  Kismayo is a strategic target for forces because it’s a key
supply route for al-Shabaab, an affiliate of al-Qaeda, and a
source of taxes the group collects, according to the United
Nations. Income from Somali ports has generated as much as $50
million a year for al-Shabaab from illegal trading, the UN
Monitoring Group on Somalia said in a report last year.  Al-Shabaab said in a statement on its Twitter account that
Kismayo “remains firmly in the hands of the mujahedeen” after
its fighters thwarted a seaborne attack by Kenyan forces.  Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki this week described Kismayo as
al-Shabaab’s last major bastion in the Horn of African nation.
Kibaki ordered Kenyan forces into southern Somalia last October
following the abduction of aid workers and tourists, and the
murder of a British holidaymaker in  Kenya .  Access Point  The advance into Kismayo will cut off an access point for
weapons and ammunition, Mehari Taddele Maru, an independent
security adviser to the African Union, said today in a phone
interview.  “As a military force al-Shabaab has diminished, even
though its ideology still has a following,” he said by phone
from Addis Ababa,  Ethiopia ’s capital. The authorities should be
able to maintain territorial gains by creating government-backed
administrations capable of delivering basic services, he said.  One of the biggest security threats posed by al-Shabaab is
that it may continue coordinating attacks, including suicide
bombings and assassination attempts, he said.  “Al-Shabaab offered some stability and service delivery,
so the government and Amisom must be able to galvanize support
through the administration of services,” Mehari said. “They
must also be able to confront resistance in the form of attacks
such as hit-and-runs and suicide bombing attacks.”  Refugees  There wasn’t a “significant” number of casualties in the
clashes in Kismayo, Oguna said. More than 12,000 people have
left areas in and around the city, fleeing air and naval
bombardments between Sept. 1 to Sept. 26, the Nairobi-based UN
refugee agency said today in an e-mailed statement.  Soldiers from Uganda, Burundi and Djibouti are also
participating in the African Union Mission in Somalia, a
peacekeeping force known as Amisom, while Ethiopian troops are
operating independently alongside Somali government soldiers.
Al-Shabaab has been driven from the capital, Mogadishu, and lost
control of several other bases over the past year as the
international community intensified efforts to support a newly
elected government.  Somali lawmakers elected Hassan Sheikh Mohamoud as
president on Sept. 10, marking the 16th attempt to establish an
effective central government since the ouster of dictator
Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991. Previous administrations have failed
to stem clan-based fighting, rid the country of Islamist
insurgents and halt sea piracy off the country’s coast.  Kenyan Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka urged foreign donors
to help Somalia rebuild its economy as security improves.  The capture of Kismayo “is the first block toward the
reconstruction of Somalia,” Musyoka told reporters today in the
western town of Kuria. “The international community must
provide the necessary resources that will accelerate
resettlement of the displaced citizens and provision of basic
infrastructure and services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  