-- Air Force Expands F-35 Trials Over Tester’s Objections
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-09-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/air-force-expands-f-35-trials-over-tester-s-objections.html
The U.S. Air Force is expanding
pilot training for  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 Joint Strike
Fighter over objections from the Pentagon’s top weapons tester
that the move increases the danger of a “serious mishap.”  After six months of limited check-out sorties for the
plane, the Pentagon’s costliest weapon, the Air Force this month
began 65 days of riskier training without ground-control
personnel constantly monitoring instruments to warn of flaws.  Considering the aircraft’s “immaturity,” conducting the
so-called uninstrumented training flights “entails significant
risk with no benefit,”  Michael Gilmore , the Pentagon’s testing
director, wrote in a memo to Air Force Secretary Michael Donley
obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Gilmore’s concerns about flight training add to debate over
the fighter program whose estimated cost has increased 70
percent since 2001 to $397 billion in current dollars while
encountering flaws or delays with its software, a pilot helmet
and aircraft deliveries. “Repair work” is needed to mend the
Pentagon’s frayed relations with Lockheed over the F-35, General
Mark Welsh, the Air Force chief of staff, said Sept. 18.  Michael Rein, a spokesman for the Bethesda, Maryland-based
company, said in a statement Sept. 17, “We remain committed to
continuing our work to solve program challenges and build on the
momentum and success we’ve achieved during the past couple of
years.” Welsh and Rein were commenting on issues other than the
previously undisclosed training dispute.  Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, rose 55
cents to $92.46 in  New York  trading yesterday and has gained 14
percent this year.  Florida Base  The Air Force started the 65-day “operational utility
evaluation” of flying qualities, maintenance training, ground
simulators and classroom courses on Sept. 10 at Eglin Air Force
Base in  Florida .  Air Force Colonel Andrew Toth, commander of the 33rd
Fighter Wing, said in a Sept. 7  press release  that starting the
drill “is another huge milestone.”  In a response to Gilmore’s criticism, Donley wrote, “We
have taken great efforts to ensure that comprehensive safety and
readiness reviews have been completed.”  Flights conducted at Eglin since March were a “deliberate
and incremental approach” demonstrating the “system is ready
for the next step,” Donley wrote in the response dated Aug. 27.
The aircraft flew 121 sorties at Eglin since March for a
combined 152.9 flight hours, according to service data.  ‘Unprecedented Move’  The current exercise, if successful, would let the  Air
Force  expand the number of pilots trained on the F-35 to 80
instructor pilots by December 2015 from five today. It would be
a step toward training the first foreign pilots -- Dutch
students -- by January 2013 and as many as 100 American student
pilots a year by December 2016.  The Air Force eventually would need as many as 2,200 pilots
to fly the 1,763 F-35s it plans to buy. The service has yet to
determine when it intends to declare the fighter has reached
initial combat capability.  In Gilmore’s memo, dated July 20, he wrote that
“initiating training with an immature, non-combat-capable
version of a fighter aircraft is unprecedented among prior
analogous systems and is not now supported by the need for
trained pilots.”  “I recommend strongly” that the test phase be delayed
until the F-35 has “actual combat capability,” Gilmore wrote.
Going ahead “poses risks of a serious mishap,” he said, and
has nothing to do with combat capability because the F-35s at
Eglin “have none.”  Telling Nothing  “Executing this training will tell us nothing about the
difficulty and time required to actually train pilots to conduct
air combat,” he wrote.  The testing dispute provides a window into tensions as the
Pentagon’s civilian leaders seek to exert increased oversight of
the plane.  Tougher oversight of the F-35 by Pentagon civilians began
in February 2010 when then-Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  fired
the military’s program manager and withheld $614 million in fees
that Lockheed could have received.  Since then, the Pentagon has given increased scrutiny to
contract proposals, delayed the purchase since 2010 of more than
400 planned aircraft until after 2017, and withheld payments to
Lockheed because of a flawed cost-estimating system.  ‘Abort Rate’  Frank Kendall, the Pentagon’s top weapons buyer, said in
February that putting the F-35 into production years before its
first flight test “was acquisition malpractice.” Kendall was
criticizing the practice known as “concurrency,” when limited
production occurs in parallel with development flight tests.  Gilmore said the Air Force is following the same flawed
approach in the expanded training. “Now, the pressure is to
make training concurrent with flight testing,” he said in the
memo.  A comprehensive review of the jet’s airworthiness, each
aborted flight and deficiencies all show the evaluation can be
conducted safely, Donley wrote in his response.  Gilmore stands by his memo and doesn’t find Donley’s
rationale for pressing ahead “compelling,” spokeswoman  Cheryl
Irwin  said in a Sept. 10 e-mail.  The disagreement turns partly on “abort rates” for F-35
missions that had to be cut short, an Air Force measure used to
assess an aircraft’s progress in development.  Air aborts often occur because a problem went undetected on
the ground or didn’t occur until after the jet was airborne and
is severe enough in terms of flight safety that the mission must
be ended.  ‘Not Improving’  The abort rate for F-35 test flights at Eglin and at
Edwards Air Force Base in  California  “has been flat, that is,
not improving,” Gilmore said in his memo.  The Air Force reviewed each mission abort, Colonel  Dawn
Dunlop , Donley’s special adviser on F-35 issues, said in a
telephone interview.  “We’ve had many discussions with Dr. Gilmore’s staff,”
she said. “We agree on the data. The only disagreement is in
whether or not the risk is understood, is sufficiently mitigated
and that there is smart plan to move forward. The Air Force
thinks the answer is yes.”  Gilmore said the trend was also unchanged in discovering
so-called Category 1 deficiencies, those that may cause death,
injury or severe occupational illness and loss or damage to a
weapon system.  As of July 9, 67 of the Category 1 deficiencies related to
the F-35’s airframe, propulsion systems and support systems
remained unresolved, according to Gilmore. “Twenty-eight are
relevant to the intended” flight training at Eglin, he said.  Dunlop said in the interview that “every one of those was
gone through line-by-line to see if there was sufficient
mitigation in place.”  Donley and Gilmore “have different roles and different
responsibilities and might come at this from different
perspectives,” Dunlop said. “We have spent some time trying to
reconcile those differences, but the Air Force feels confident
in our assessment of the risk and the value of an independent
evaluation at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  