-- Malaysian Budget Aids Poor as Subsidy Cut to Contain Deficit
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n ,   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-09-28T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/malaysian-budget-aids-poor-as-subsidy-cut-to-contain-deficit.html
Prime Minister Najib Razak cut
income taxes and extended handouts for the poor while pledging
to reduce Malaysia’s fiscal deficit in the 2013 budget as the
next general election nears. The ringgit gained.  The government plans to spend 251.6 billion ringgit ($82
billion) in 2013, Najib, who is also finance minister, said
yesterday.  Gross domestic product  may expand 4.5 percent to 5.5
percent next year after rising as much as 5 percent in 2012,
with the  budget deficit  forecast to narrow to 4 percent of GDP
from 4.5 percent, he said.  Najib countered the spending on handouts and the tax
reduction with a cut in sugar subsidies and an increase in real
property gains tax as he pledged to contain a  budget deficit 
that is one of the widest in  Asia  as a proportion of GDP.
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have recommended tighter
public finances after the prime minister, 59, raised civil
servants’ salaries, handed cash to low-income households and
unveiled infrastructure projects in the past year to spur growth.  “Budget 2013 will focus on improving the quality of life
for the people,” Najib said in a speech in parliament. “It
will ensure sustainable economic growth, prudent spending and
reduce the country’s fiscal deficit with the overall goal of
focusing on the welfare of the people.”  The ringgit, which has strengthened more than 3 percent
this quarter, rose 0.5 percent to 3.0620 against the dollar, the
biggest gain in a week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The benchmark FTSE Bursa  Malaysia  KLCI Index climbed 0.5 percent.  Higher Pensions  Malaysia will reduce the personal income tax rate by 1
percentage point for those with a taxable income of 2,500
ringgit to 50,000 ringgit annually, Najib said. The government
will also repeat a 500-ringgit handout for low-income families.  Civil servants’ minimum pensions will be raised to 820
ringgit per month, and government workers will get an additional
bonus of one month’s salary, Najib said. A 50 percent stamp duty
waiver for first-home buyers will be extended till December 2014.  Real property gains tax will be raised to 15 percent from
10 percent for properties disposed of less than two years after
purchase, Najib said. Total government revenue in 2013 is
estimated at 208.6 billion ringgit, compared to 207.2 billion
ringgit in 2012.  “The budget is targeted at low income households and
traditional constituencies of support,” said  Rahul Bajoria , a
Singapore-based economist at Barclays Plc. “Revenue assumptions
appear conservative. If they are able to deliver these results,
other programs to transform the economy will gain more
traction.”  ’Sustainable Debt’  Najib’s ruling coalition won re-election in 2008 by the
smallest margin since independence in 1957 after facing a
resurgent opposition led by  Anwar Ibrahim . Its five-decade grip
on power will again be tested in a vote due by early 2013.  Earlier, the  Ministry of Finance  in its annual report said
Malaysia is committed to further reducing the budget shortfall
to 3 percent by 2015. Total government debt, estimated to reach
502.4 billion ringgit, or 53.7 percent of GDP this year, will
not exceed 55 percent of GDP, according to the report.  Malaysia’s subsidy bill may increase 17 percent to 42.4
billion ringgit in 2012, the finance ministry’s report showed.
The cost to cap prices of essential goods including fuel, sugar
and cooking oil, and provide for social welfare programs may
decline to 37.6 billion ringgit in 2013, it said.  “The government remains steadfast in its commitment toward
prudent financial management,” it said. “The debt remains
sustainable while the deficit will be financed mainly through
domestic sources.”  Sugar Subsidy  The government has shelved a plan to cut subsidies on the
widely used RON 95 grade of petrol since December 2010.
Liquefied natural gas companies will get 100 percent tax
exemption for the first three years of operation, Najib said
yesterday, while the sugar subsidy will be reduced.  Malaysia will spend 49.7 billion ringgit on development,
including infrastructure and agriculture, Najib said. A fund of
1 billion ringgit will also be provided to encourage the growth
of small and medium enterprises and industrial areas, he said.  Private and public consumption is projected to expand 4.2
percent in 2013 and remain the main driver of domestic demand,
according to the finance ministry’s report. Economic growth
unexpectedly accelerated to 5.4 percent last quarter, even as
 exports  fell for the first time in three months in July as
 Europe ’s debt crisis hurt demand.  Inflation is expected to average between 2 percent and 3
percent in 2013, the report said. Price gains held at 1.4
percent in August, the lowest rate among  Southeast Asia ’s major
economies, prompting the central bank to keep  interest rates 
steady for an eighth meeting this month.  “ Monetary policy  continues to be supportive in providing a
stable environment to promote growth, while managing the risk of
inflationary pressures and avoiding financial imbalances,” the
report said. “This policy stance will continue to be assessed
against the risks and outlook for growth and inflation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  