-- Allscripts Said to Hire Citigroup to Explore Company Sale
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-10-01T13:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/allscripts-said-to-be-exploring-possible-sale.html
Allscripts Healthcare Solutions Inc. (MDRX) ,
a provider of electronic health records, climbed as much as 6.3
percent on the possibility the company will sell itself to a
private equity buyer.  Allscripts gained 5.5 percent to $13.10 at 9:37 a.m. New
York time. The shares of the Chicago-based company rose 14
percent on Sept. 28 after  Bloomberg News , citing people familiar
with the matter, reported that Citigroup Inc. was hired by
Allscripts to explore a sale.  Allscripts is holding talks about a potential leveraged
buyout and spoken in recent weeks with firms such as  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , said one of the people, who asked to remain anonymous
because the talks are private. A leveraged buyout would make
sense, wrote  David Windley , an analyst for Jefferies & Co. in
Nashville,  Tennessee , in a note to clients.  “We cannot debate the logic,” as Allscripts “continues
to climb a steep product integration hill that would be more
comfortable out of the public eye,” said Windley, who has a
hold rating on Allscripts.  No deal is imminent and Allscripts, which first offered
public shares in 1999, may decide not to sell, said the people.
Ariana Nikitas, Allscripts’ director of public relations, said
in a Sept. 28 e-mail that the company doesn’t comment on rumors
or speculation. A Blackstone spokesman,  Peter Rose , declined to
comment.  Allscripts acquired the rival Eclipsys Corp. in 2010 to
take advantage of a 2009 law signed by U.S. President  Barack Obama  that offered hospitals and doctors $27 billion in
incentives to install electronic records systems.     On April 26,
the company fired Chairman Phil Pead, who had joined the board
as a result of Eclipsys purchase, and three directors resigned.  Allscripts on April 30 said it had hired Dennis Chookaszian
to replace Pead. The same day, a major shareholder, hedge fund
sponsor HealthCor Management LP of New York, called for
Allscripts Chief Executive Officer Glen Tullman to be fired.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  