-- AMC Seeks $2.4 Billion From Dish Over Canceled HD Deal
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-09-28T21:58:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/amc-seeks-2-4-billion-from-dish-over-canceled-hd-deal.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  wrongfully ended
a television programming contract with  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) ,
leaving it with “massive financial losses,” because of
competition from a Dish rival, an AMC lawyer told a jury.  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , AMC’s former owner, sued Dish in
2008 over a now-defunct high-definition satellite-TV service
called Voom, claiming Dish breached their 15-year contract to
offer the service to its 14 million subscribers. AMC, formerly
known as Rainbow Media, seeks $2.4 billion in damages from
Englewood, Colorado-based Dish, which split off its EchoStar
equipment and satellite service in 2008.  “My client, Rainbow Media HD, was wronged and betrayed by
EchoStar, which backed out of a contract that lasted 15 years
after two years and left my client with massive financial
losses,”  Orin Snyder , a lawyer for AMC, said today in his
opening statement in the trial in  New York  State Supreme Court
in Manhattan.  Dish, the third-largest U.S. pay-TV company, contends that
it terminated the Voom contract because Cablevision didn’t spend
the required $100 million a year on programming.  “EchoStar was concerned that money be spent on the
programming,” James Bennett, a lawyer for Dish, said in his
opening statement. “This case is about Voom’s failure to
fulfill that commitment,” he said. “They spent $100 million on
the business. Not on the programming.”  Financial Threat  Snyder told the eight jurors that Dish wanted to get out of
the contract because of a financial threat from a large
competitor, satellite TV provider  DirecTV. (DTV)  Cable networks such
as CNN and  MTV  were beginning to offer HD programming at no
extra cost to TV distributors like Dish and DirecTV, he said.  “Dish was pre-empted by a rival announcing more HD
channels at half the price,” Snyder told the jury.  The trial, before Justice Richard Lowe, may last four
weeks, lawyers said during jury selection. Charles Dolan, the
86-year-old chairman of both Cablevision and AMC, is scheduled
to testify for AMC on Oct. 1. His son,  James Dolan , the CEO of
Bethpage, New York-based Cablevision, is also expected to
testify.  Cablevision spun off AMC Networks as a separate public
company last year. The Dolans remain controlling shareholders in
AMC.  ‘Mad Men’  The lawsuit’s implications go beyond any damages award. The
trial may determine whether Dish viewers will again see AMC
shows such as “Mad Men” and “Breaking Bad.” Dish dropped
AMC’s four networks from its system in July, saying its programs
didn’t deliver the ratings to justify their price.  AMC claims the removal was because of the lawsuit.  “We’ve been off the platform for a couple of months now
and we think we’re off because of litigation and not because of
anything related to what our prices are for programming,”
Joshua Sapan, the chief executive officer of AMC, said at an
investor conference in  Manhattan  Sept. 12. He is expected to
testify for AMC.  Dish accounted for 13 percent of AMC’s subscribers, which
can determine what advertisers and broadcasters pay the cable
programming company.  “Both sides have a lot of motivation to settle,” Aditi
Bagchi, a professor at Fordham Law School who teaches contracts,
said in a phone interview. “Maybe they will renegotiate the
terms on which Dish will carry AMC’s channels.”  AMC’s “Breaking Bad” won an Emmy Award on Sept. 23 for
best supporting actor and the network’s zombie-themed series,
“The Walking Dead,” won for prosthetic makeup. “Mad Men” was
denied a chance to be named best dramatic TV series for the
fifth year in a row, losing to Showtime’s “Homeland.”  ‘Separate Matter’  Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Dish, said the decision to drop
AMC was “an entirely separate matter” from the lawsuit.  “The channels were essentially a handful of popular
shows,” Toevs said in an interview. “For us, the equation
didn’t work.”  The case centers on the meaning of what constitutes
spending “on the service,” as described in the contract. AMC
and Cablevision argued in their filings that an audit found Voom
spent almost $103 million in 2006. Dish counters that this sum
included corporate overhead expenses of at least $12 million,
while the contract required the money to be spent on
programming.  Bennett told the jury today that evidence will show Voom
spent only about $59 million in one year on programming.  E-Mail Destruction  Before the jurors deliberate, Lowe will instruct them about
Dish’s destruction of e-mails before and after the lawsuit was
filed. Lowe granted AMC’s motion for sanctions, saying Dish
should have anticipated a lawsuit and begun saving e-mails when
it notified Voom it might terminate the contract. Dish said the
e-mails were automatically deleted.  Snyder told the jury in his opening remarks that Dish had
“systematically destroyed evidence.”  Cable provider  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and DirecTV are the largest
U.S. pay-TV companies.  Dish fell 36 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $30.61 in Nasdaq
Stock Market trading. AMC rose 14 cents to $43.52.  The case is Voom HD Holdings LLC v. EchoStar Satellite LLC,
600292-2008, State Supreme Court of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  