-- AMR Arrivals Slow Again as FAA Reminds Pilots of Surveillance
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-09-28T14:33:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/amr-arrivals-slow-again-as-faa-tells-pilots-of-oversight.html
American Airlines ’ flight slowdown
reached the two-week mark with fresh delays today even as U.S.
regulators reminded pilots of the stepped-up surveillance under
way at the bankrupt carrier.  With 308 flights tracked, the on-time rate was 61 percent
as of 10:23 a.m.  New York  time, according to industry researcher
 FlightStats.com . A  Federal Aviation Administration  official
commented on the surveillance in a response to an e-mailed
question from an American pilot. The carrier threatened
yesterday to take legal action against the  Allied Pilots
Association  if the slowdown didn’t stop.  American’s on-time performance began sliding on Sept. 14
after the airline imposed concessions to help it restructure
under court protection. On-time arrivals dropped as low as 37
percent on Sept. 17, according to FlightStats, raising concern
that passengers would shift to other airlines.  The FAA surveillance covers “all regulatory requirements
which are expected to be followed by the airline, as well as the
maintenance and pilot groups,” Skip Whitrock, who manages the
AMR certificate management office for the FAA, said in the e-
mail, which was later shared with other pilots and confirmed by
the FAA.  The oversight, which occurs for any bankrupt airline,
includes frivolous maintenance reports, misuse of a minimum
equipment list that must be completed before each flight, lack
of adequate maintenance, deliberate delays and other areas,
Whitrock said.  American had a 50 percent on-time arrival rate yesterday,
compared with 90 percent for  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , 85 percent
for  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and 77 percent for United Continental
Holdings Inc., according to FlightStats data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  