-- Amtrada Sees World Robusta Coffee Shortage in 2012-13 Season
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-09-28T11:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/amtrada-sees-world-robusta-coffee-shortage-in-2012-13-season-1-.html
Robusta coffee demand will exceed
supplies in the season starting Oct. 1 in most countries, with
global usage increasing and a smaller crop in  Vietnam , the
world’s biggest grower, according to Amtrada Holding BV.  Production of robusta beans, used in instant coffee and
espresso, will lag behind consumption by 300,000 bags of 60
kilograms (132 pounds), according to the Amsterdam-based
holdings company, which owns coffee trader Nedcoffee BV. That
follows a balanced season in 2011-12, Hans Hendriksen, managing
director of Amtrada, said in Geneva today.  Global consumption of the variety will rise 3 percent in
the new season, at a faster rate than the growth in arabica, the
kind favored by companies such as Starbucks Corp. The crop in
Vietnam will decline to about 1.3 million metric tons (21.7
million bags) in 2012-13 from almost 1.6 million bags in
2011-12, he said.  “If you look at the expectation for robusta in general,
and you take Vietnam’s crop below last year’s,  Indonesia  a
normal one,  India  a normal one and Uganda a normal one, where is
the robusta going to come from? So it’s going to be tight,”
Hendriksen said.  Robusta coffee has climbed 19 percent so far this year as
demand increased in  emerging markets  and producing countries.
Some roasters in traditional consuming areas in Europe and in
the U.S. also increased their usage of the cheaper beans after
the arabica variety soared to a 14-year high last year.  “There is new consumption, which is called the 3-in-1
products, in which you see coffee, sugar and milk together in
new markets and it’s based on soluble coffee made out of
robusta,” Hendriksen said. “There is an increase in
consumption in other markets, in  Europe  and in the U.S. as well
and it started with pricing.”  Consumer Downgrade  Roasters that increased usage of robusta are unlikely to
switch back to arabica even after the price difference between
the two kinds fell, he said. Arabica coffee was 74.1611 cents a
pound more expensive than robusta beans, down 49 percent this
year,  data  compiled by Bloomberg shows. Robusta demand may have
increased by 5 million bags in the current season at the expense
of arabica, Macquarie Group estimated on Sept. 6.  “In European markets and maybe in the U.S. as well, the
consumer downgraded and is consuming lower-priced coffees, which
therefore increases the demand for robusta,” Hendriksen said.
“Why would people change back to arabica if it’s already
accepted quality? I don’t see it.”  Vietnam Production  Output in Vietnam will fall after a record crop in 2011-12
as rains induced early flowering of trees, meaning cherries that
contain the beans will not mature uniformly, he said. Amtrada,
which owns a coffee processing factory in the country, plans to
expand its operations there, he said, declining to give more
details. The company handles about 130,000 tons of robusta beans
each year, he said.  The global cocoa market will see a “small” shortage in
the 2012-13 season that also starts Oct. 1, with the crop in top
grower Ivory Coast “slightly” smaller than last year’s,
according to Amtrada, which also owns Dutch cocoa trader
Continaf BV. Dry weather in July and August didn’t damage the
crop, he said. The cocoa season is expected to start on time in
Ivory Coast, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sharon Lindores at 
 slindores@bloomberg.net  