-- ARU ‘Utterly Confused’ by Cooper’s Latest Comments, O’Neill Says
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-28T04:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/aru-utterly-confused-by-cooper-s-latest-comments-o-neill-says.html
The Australian Rugby Union said
it’s baffled by comments made by Quade Cooper in a television
interview that escalated the injured fly-half’s criticism of the
national team.  Cooper, who complained of a “toxic” environment within
the Wallabies setup last weekend, told Fox Sports last night
that problems include a lack of appropriate facilities for the
squad to prepare for Test matches. He said he’s unlikely to play
for Australia again unless his concerns are addressed.  “Much of what was said has left us utterly confused,” ARU
Chief Executive Officer John O’Neill said today in a statement.
“He talks of an unhappy environment without elaborating. He
uses the word toxic, an extremely strong descriptor. However,
when pressed on the issues he turned to facilities and the
Wallabies not having a dedicated place to train. We’ve never had
these concerns raised previously.”  Cooper’s interview took place about five hours after the
ARU, which governs the sport in Australia, said it had written
to him regarding his initial criticisms. New Zealand-born Cooper
also said on Twitter at the weekend that the Wallabies coaches
didn’t allow him to play in the attacking style he wanted.  The 24-year-old, who’s played 38 Tests for Australia, is
currently sidelined because of a knee injury that requires
clean-up surgery. The Wallabies face South Africa tomorrow in
the fifth round of the southern hemisphere’s Rugby Championship.  ‘Destroying Me’  During last night’s interview, Cooper said the Wallabies
environment was “destroying me as a person and as a player,”
and that he was unable to perform at his best. He denied that
his comments were designed to create rifts in the teams.  “My hope and intent is that things are fixed from this
point on and makes it a better environment for people moving
forward whether I’m involved or not,” Cooper said last night.  O’Neill said that Cooper’s future in rugby in Australia
rests with the player. Cooper has agreed a three-year contract
with the Queensland Reds for the next three Super Rugby seasons,
though must also sign an ARU contract, which stipulates his
availability for the national team.  “Most disturbingly, he was firm about not playing for the
Wallabies unless things change,” O’Neill said. “If that is how
he feels, then that is his choice. The reality is a decision on
whether or not he stays in Australian rugby has to this point
rested with him since he received an ARU offer in early July.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  