-- Harvey Nash to Expand in Asia as Europe Hiring Stalls, CEO Says
-- B y   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-09-28T11:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/harvey-nash-to-expand-in-asia-as-europe-hiring-stalls-ceo-says.html
Harvey Nash Group Plc (HVN) , a U.K.
recruiter, said it’s expanding in Asia as demand for permanent
staffing in its main European markets continues to soften.  Harvey Nash opened offices in Sydney and Hong Kong earlier
this year and expects to open another in  Singapore  in the next
12 to 18 months to serve southeast Asia, Chief Executive Officer
Albert Ellis said in a phone interview today.  “Lots of our large clients are saying they are not hiring
in places like  France  for example,” Ellis said. “We’ve got a
number of large multinational companies, and two or three are
French global conglomerates, and they are only hiring in Asia.
They are not hiring in the home markets in  Europe .”  Harvey Nash’s Asian operations employ 1,500 people in
 Vietnam  working on client systems as part of its information
technology outsourcing services. The diplomatic tension between
 Japan  and  China  has led to recent inquiries from Japanese
companies exploring locations other than China. Harvey Nash is
talking to a large company listed in Japan about a possible
transfer of its operations from China to Vietnam, Ellis said.  Reported Results  First-half revenue rose 15 percent to 292.5 million pounds
($475 million), the company said in a statement today. Net
income fell 6.7 percent to 2.35 million pounds after one-time
costs relating to relocating the London office. Operating profit
before non-recurring items rose 11 percent to 4.5 million
pounds.  Harvey Nash shares gained 3.2 percent to 60 pence at 12:07
p.m. in  London .  “In France, demand has declined, with revenues down 63
percent particularly following the elections,” the company
said. Elsewhere in Europe and the U.S., increases in contracting
and temporary recruitment offset the weaker outlook in permanent
recruitment. Harvey Nash is confident it will meet its full-year
targets, according to Ellis.  The executive said its focus on the social media and
technology market has shielded it from the worst of the
downturn. The company moved its London office from the West End
to east of the City of London to be closer to offices of
technology companies such as Google Inc. and Facebook Inc.  “It’s a pretty good performance given the current market
environment,” Caroline de la Soujeole, an analyst at London-
based Seymour Pierce Ltd., said by phone today. “It shows that
the sectors Harvey Nash operates in, which is digital, mobile
and social media, are very resilient, dynamic sectors and that’s
coming through in their numbers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  