-- Asian Stocks Decline for Second Week on Europe, Growth Concerns
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-09-28T23:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/asian-stocks-decline-for-second-week-on-europe-growth-concerns.html
Asian  stocks  fell a second week
amid concern political discord will prevent  Europe  from
resolving its debt crisis as global growth slows. Losses were
limited on speculation  China  will take new steps to boost the
world’s second-largest economy.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that counts Europe as its
largest market, sank 6.6 percent in Hong Kong after missing
earnings estimates.  Woongjin Coway Co. (021240)  slumped 24 percent in
 Seoul  after the water-purifier maker’s parent filed for
bankruptcy protection.  United Spirits Ltd. (UNSP)  surged about 24
percent in Mumbai after London-based Diageo Plc confirmed it’s
in talks to buy the maker of whiskies and brandies.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slid 0.8 percent to 122.47 this
week, its second-straight weekly loss. The gauge gained 4
percent for the month as central banks from Europe, the U.S.,
Japan and China took action to support economic growth.  “A period of consolidation in the month ahead looks the
more likely outcome,” said George Boubouras, Melbourne-based
head of investment strategy at UBS AG’s Australian wealth
management unit. The bank oversees about $1.5 trillion. “In
Europe, there will continue to be some lingering challenges.”  Stocks on Asia’s benchmark index were valued at about 12.8
times estimated earnings on average, compared with about 13.9
times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 11.9 times for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  sank 2.6 percent this week
as industrial production fell more than economists forecast in
August and a territorial dispute between Japan and China
intensified. Automakers declined as violent protests against
Japanese businesses in China forced production cuts.  Manufacturing Slump  The Bank of Japan’s Tankan report due Oct. 1 is expected to
show the nation’s biggest manufacturers grew more pessimistic
this quarter as China’s slowdown and Europe’s crisis sapped
exports.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  added 2.9 percent to
2,086.169 amid expectation the government would offer measures
to boost the equities market after the gauge dipped below 2,000.
All the index’s gains this week came on Sept. 27 after a
Shanghai Securities News report the regulator might introduce
measures to buoy stocks.  Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  climbed 0.5 percent, while
Taiwan’s Taiex Index decreased 0.5 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index fell 0.5 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index slid 0.3
percent as the nation’s industrial production fell more than
expected in August.  Deadlocked Leaders  Shares slid after German Chancellor Angela Merkel and
French President Francois Hollande last weekend clashed on a
timetable to introduce joint oversight of the region’s banking
sector. Merkel rebuffed Hollande’s appeal to activate it “the
earlier, the better,” underlining disagreement between the euro
zone’s biggest economies.  Nippon Sheet Glass Co. (5202) , which counts Europe as its No. 1
market, declined 6.8 percent to 55 yen in  Tokyo . Esprit dropped
6.6 percent to HK$11.92 in Hong Kong after posting full-year
profit that missed analyst estimates. Sales in  Germany , Esprit’s
biggest market, fell 9 percent.  Stocks rebounded yesterday after Spanish Prime Minister
Mariano Rajoy’s nine-month-old government announced a fifth
austerity budget that may help it meet deficit targets.  Island Fight  Japanese stocks fell the most this week among Asia’s
benchmark indexes as a dispute with China escalated over the
ownership of uninhabited islands in the East China Sea.  Nissan Motor Co., the top Japanese seller of vehicles in
China, slid 5.1 percent this week. The carmaker suspended
production in China after anti-Japan protests escalated, with
rioters torching showrooms and smashing cars.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
Asia’s No. 1 automaker, fell 5 percent. Honda Motor Co. declined
7.8 percent.  Woongjin Coway tumbled 24 percent to 30,750 won in Seoul,
the  steepest weekly drop  in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. The
company’s parent applied for court receivership and halted the
1.2 trillion won ($1 billion) sale of a 31 percent stake in
Coway to buyout fund MBK Partners Ltd.  PT Bumi Resources (BUMI)  dropped 13 percent in Jakarta after Bumi
Plc, the London-listed Indonesian coal venture founded by
Nathaniel Rothschild, started a probe into alleged
irregularities at the company. Relations between Rothschild and
Bumi Co-Chairman Indra Bakrie soured last year after the U.K.-
based financier urged a “radical cleaning up” of Bumi
Resources, which is 29 percent owned by Rothschild’s firm.  United Spirits surged more than 20 percent in Mumbai.
Diageo Plc is in talks to buy a stake in the maker of whiskies
and other alcoholic beverages, the companies said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  