-- ECB’s Asmussen Joins IMF in Warning Greece May Need More Aid
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-09-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/asmussen-says-greece-may-need-more-aid-from-euro-area-partners.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Joerg Asmussen said Greece may need more aid,
joining the  International Monetary Fund  in expressing doubt that
the two existing bailouts will suffice.  Even if Greece meets its budget goals, “there could be
additional need for external financing because, for example,
growth is worse than was initially anticipated,” Asmussen said
at an event in Berlin yesterday. Such financial aid can only
come “from the member states of the  euro zone ,” he said,
ruling out ECB involvement because that would be “prohibited
monetary state financing.”  The comments mean two thirds of the so-called troika that’s
inspecting Greece’s financial position have now publicly spoken
about the possible need for an additional bailout. IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde  said on Sept. 24 Greece faces a
financing gap that won’t be solved by budget measures because a
weak economy and delayed privatizations have worsened its fiscal
situation.  “This is the first time that an ECB official is talking
about more aid for Greece in such an explicit way,” said
 Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Nomura
International Plc in  London . “It can be interpreted either as a
possible aid package or another” debt writedown, he said.  International lenders have so far pledged funds totaling
240 billion euros ($309 billion) to Greece, which also had 100
billion euros written off its debt by private-sector investors
this year in the biggest restructuring in history.  Troika Returns  Inspectors from the troika, which comprises the European
Commission, the IMF and the ECB, will return to  Athens  on Sept.
30 to continue to assess whether Greece is meeting the terms of
its bailout and can receive the next installment.  In a March report on Greece, IMF economists said the
country may need more aid from  Europe  or further debt
restructuring if the current loan program went off track.  Lagarde has said the IMF will not lend Greece any more
money and the ECB has rejected participating in a debt
restructuring. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  has
also ruled out further aid, saying the last bailout stretched
international creditors to their limits.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras has struggled to
broker an agreement with the troika and his coalition partners
on a package that will include more than 7 billion euros of cuts
to wages, pensions and benefits in a country battling a fifth
year of recession and with nearly a quarter of the workforce
unemployed.  The two-year budget-cut package, worth 13.5 billion euros
overall, is key to Greece receiving the next tranche of the
existing bailout. Greece’s budget deficit is due to shrink to
about 7 percent of GDP this year from 9.1 percent in 2011.  “There is a budgetary gap in  Greece  which needs to be
closed,” Asmussen said. “The Greek government has to
deliver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  