-- Aussie Gains on China Stimulus Speculation Before PMI
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-09-28T06:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/aussie-holds-gains-on-china-stimulus-speculation-before-pmi-data.html
Australia’s dollar rose against
most of its major peers amid speculation  China ’s government will
initiate more stimulus to sustain growth, enhancing the export
prospects for the South Pacific nation.  New Zealand’s dollar rose against the greenback, headed for
a fourth weekly gain after the People’s Bank of China injected a
net 365 billion  yuan  ($58 billion) into the financial system
this week. China is Australia’s biggest trading partner and New
Zealand’s second-largest export market. Demand for the
currencies was also supported after Spain announced its fifth
austerity package, reducing concern the indebted country may
fail to meet requirements for a bailout.  “The figures coming out emphasize the need for China to
look at their stimulus package and roll out more,” said Matthew
Stanley, Sydney-based head of Asia-Pacific sales at Velocity
Trade Ltd., a currency brokerage. “The news that has come out
from Spain will probably support the currencies quite well,” he
said referring to the Australian and New Zealand dollars.  Australia ’s currency added 0.2 percent to $1.0458 as of
4:34 p.m. in Sydney after climbing 0.7 percent yesterday to
$1.0442. The currency is poised for a 1.3 percent advance since
August and a 2.2 percent gain this quarter.  New Zealand’s dollar advanced 0.3 percent to 83.41 U.S.
cents from yesterday. The so-called kiwi is set to rise 3.8
percent his month and 4.1 percent since the end of June.  The yield on Australian 10-year government bonds dropped
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 2.99 percent.
The rate has fallen every day this week.  Chinese Stimulus  Fitch Ratings lowered its forecast for growth in China this
year, citing a “deteriorating global growth outlook.” The
credit rating company predicts China’s economy will expand 7.8
percent, compared with an earlier estimate of 8 percent.  China is scheduled to release its  manufacturing purchasing
managers index  on Oct. 1, with economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News predicting a reading of 50, the level that divides
contraction from expansion. A similar private  index  from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics is due for release tomorrow.
The data may increase pressure on Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao to
try to boost growth ahead of the transfer of power to a new
Communist Party leadership that begins later this year.  Investor appetite for risk also grew after Spanish Prime
Minister Mariano Rajoy’s Cabinet yesterday approved a new tax on
lottery winnings and a cut in ministries’ spending to shrink the
euro area’s third-biggest budget deficit.  The New Zealand dollar advanced against 15 of its 16 major
peers after home building approvals rose in August to a five-
month high. Permits increased 1.9 percent from July when they
gained a revised 2.2 percent, the country’s statistics office
said in Wellington today. Consents rose to 1,406 -- the highest
since March when a spending change in regulations prompted a
jump in applications.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates was unchanged at 2.67 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  