-- Australian Landowner Group ‘Hopeful’ for Energy Resources Accord
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-09-28T06:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/australian-landowner-group-hopeful-for-energy-resources-accord.html
A representative of the Aboriginal
landowners in Australia’s Northern Territory negotiating a
uranium mining agreement with  Energy Resources of Australia Ltd. 
said he’s hopeful the talks will be completed soon.  Energy Resources, the operator of the Ranger mine, is close
to completing an agreement to strengthen ties with the Mirarr
and ensure that the traditional owners benefit financially,
Chief Executive Officer Rob Atkinson said in a Sept. 21
interview in Darwin. The uranium producer controlled by Rio
Tinto Group plans to finish mining its open pit at the end of
the year and then process stockpiled ore as it evaluates whether
it can go ahead with a potential expansion project.  “Getting that right in the twilight years of the Ranger
uranium mine is what we’re seeking to do now,” Justin O’Brien,
executive officer of the Gundjeihmi Aboriginal Corp., said in a
phone interview yesterday from Belgium. “ERA’s commitment to
expediting it is welcome, and their keenness to engage with our
issues in terms of the environment is welcome.”  The possibility of extending a mining lease past 2021 isn’t
currently “on the table,” O’Brien said. “We are talking about
redressing historical financial inequities.”  O’Brien, in Europe meeting with members of parliaments,
environmental groups and other organizations to discuss uranium
mining, said he’s “hopeful for a speedy conclusion.”  Energy Resources is getting close to completing an
agreement, the company said today in an e-mailed statement.  “If the Ranger 3 Deeps deposit is economically viable to
mine, we will work very hard and very closely with all of the
stakeholders, and most importantly the Mirarr, about the
possibility of extending the lease,” ERA reiterated today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  