-- BAE Said to Brief Pentagon on EADS Merger to Save Status
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-09-28T22:52:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/bae-said-to-brief-pentagon-on-eads-merger-to-save-status.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ’s U.S. unit has
started briefing Pentagon officials on the company’s plan to
merge with  European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  in an effort
to preserve its security clearance for defense contracts,
according to two people familiar with the talks.  BAE Systems Inc., the U.S. unit that has $14.4 billion in
defense contracts and provides training to the Central
Intelligence Agency, is trying to persuade the Pentagon to let
it keep a security arrangement governing involvement by its
foreign owners, the people said, speaking on condition of
anonymity to discuss the private talks. It would be a step
toward approval of the deal by the Committee on Foreign
Investment in the U.S.,  or CFIUS , they said.  Winning approval from the panel is key to a merger of the
European companies because BAE’s U.S. revenue was 47 percent of
its $30.7 billion in sales in 2011. EADS and BAE said on Sept.
12 that they are exploring creation of an aerospace and defense
combination with estimated revenue of $94 billion, exceeding
Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s $76 billion in sales last year.  “One of the big questions that will be asked in the U.S.
is,‘Does this transaction result in significantly greater
foreign government control of the merged company?’” said Clay Lowery, a former assistant Treasury secretary who oversaw the
CFIUS process under President George W. Bush and is now a
consultant with Rock Creek Global Advisors LLC in Washington.  Special Agreement  Units of London-based BAE and Toulouse, France-based EADS
both operate in the U.S. under “special security agreements”
negotiated and overseen by the Pentagon’s Defense Security
Service. Such agreements let foreign owners keep operational
control of their U.S. subsidiaries, while requiring industrial
security and export controls as well as active involvement of
U.S. citizens with security clearances on the board of the
American entity, according to the agency’s website.  Both BAE and EADS have filed paperwork to inform the
Pentagon agency that the companies are in talks about a
potential merger, Cindy McGovern, a spokeswoman for the Defense
Security Service, said in an e-mail.  BAE and EADS also have hired law firms and lobbyists to
help win approval of the merger from U.S. authorities and
acceptance from Congress.  BAE has brought on Republican consultant Vin Weber, a
former House member who is a partner at Mercury/Clark &
Weinstock in  Washington , as well as Democratic lobbyist Steve Elmendorf at Elmendorf Ryan LLC, according to BAE’s
congressional filings. Both firms indicated they were hired to
lobby on the proposed BAE-EADS merger.  Lawyers Retained  BAE has retained the law firm of Covington & Burling LLP in
Washington, and EADS has hired Kaye Scholer LLP to represent it
in the CFIUS application, according to the firms.  Under the proposed merger still being negotiated, EADS, the
parent of Airbus SAS, may own 60 percent of the combined company
with BAE getting the rest.  The balance would be the opposite in the U.S., where EADS’
smaller operations would be absorbed into BAE’s business,
according to BAE Systems spokesman Brian Roehrkasse. The U.S.
entity would continue to report through BAE’s U.K.-based holding
company, according to Roehrkasse, who declined to comment on
discussions with Pentagon officials.  That arrangement may help sell the merger to the Pentagon
because BAE has more of a track record working on sensitive and
classified matters. BAE’s top programs in the U.S. include ship-
repair contracts with the U.S. Navy and making the Army’s
Bradley Fighting Vehicles.  CIA Work  Under BAE’s current special security agreement it provides
training to intelligence agencies, including the CIA. According
to a BAE fact sheet, the company’s Intelligence & Security unit
employs 7,200 people and is the largest U.S. provider of
intelligence analysts to the Pentagon and intelligence agencies.  EADS, the prime contractor for the U.S. Army’s UH-72 Lakota
light utility helicopter, also performs some classified work for
U.S. agencies, company spokesman  Guy Hicks  said. When it bid
against Boeing in 2010 for the U.S. Air Force’s $35 billion
contract to supply refueling tankers, the company received
permission under a so-called national interest determination to
obtain classified briefings, Hicks said. Boeing ultimately won
the contract.  Under U.K. takeover rules, EADS and BAE must submit a
formal merger proposal by Oct. 10 or seek an extension of the
deadline.  CFIUS Approval  After getting informal approval from the Pentagon for a
special security agreement to continue to work on defense and
intelligence contracts and after the parent companies have
reached agreement, the companies would make an application for
CFIUS approval, the people familiar with the process said.  CFIUS, an interagency committee that reviews the national
security implications of foreign investment in the U.S., would
have 75 days to accept or reject the application.  The panel is headed by Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner,
and among its 16 members are the heads of the departments of
Defense, Justice, Homeland Security, Commerce, State, and
Energy. Established by President Gerald Ford in 1975, CFIUS
recommendations are enforced by the president.  The U.S. review will have to decide “whether existing
special security agreements they set up with BAE still work, or
do they need to move them toward what are called proxy
agreements or even to a sale of specific assets?” Lowery said.  Proxy Agreement  That’s an outcome BAE and EADS are trying to avoid because
a  proxy agreement requires  the foreign owners of a U.S.
subsidiary to surrender control to a board of three U.S.
citizens with security clearances. The proxy board exercises
full operational control of the subsidiary, including the right
to sell or dissolve the company, according to the Pentagon’s
website. Foreign owners are entitled only to get financial
information and repatriation of revenue and dividends.  “EADS currently could not operate the same kind of
sensitive businesses that BAE does in the U.S. without a
proxy,” said Ivan Schlager, who heads the CFIUS practice for
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in Washington.  In the U.K., Parliament’s defense committee has said one
issue it will review is whether the merger would affect BAE’s
relationship with the U.S., “including the development of the
Joint Strike Fighter and continuing access to U.S. technology.”
BAE is a subcontractor to  Lockheed Corp. (LMT)  on the F-35 fighter,
the Pentagon’s costliest weapon.  Shareholder Stakes  The U.K. holds a so-called single golden share in BAE
Systems, giving it the power to thwart a takeover, and it would
maintain that stake in the merged entity. EADS and BAE also have
promised a similar stake to  France  and  Germany  in the hope that
it will prompt the governments to give up their current holding
structure in EADS.  French and German interests each hold 22.16 percent in
EADS. The French and German governments are in talks over
whether to accept a reduction. France’s share would drop to 9
percent under the proposed merger.  U.S. trust in BAE’s U.S. subsidiary was demonstrated in
February 2011, when it was permitted to acquire three units from
L-1 Identity Solutions Inc. L-1 sold the operations as a prelude
to a merger with Paris-based Safran SA.  The three units provide security and intelligence
consulting, intelligence analysis as well as training and
technology development for U.S. intelligence agencies including
the CIA, according to BAE.  BAE doesn’t expect to be asked to divest those units under
a merger with EADS, one of the people familiar with the Pentagon
talks said.  Political Pressure  Even if CFIUS raises no concerns about a merger, foreign
mergers and acquisitions sometimes come under political pressure
in Washington, according to Chad Sweet, chief executive officer
of the Chertoff Group, a Washington-based consulting firm.  In 2005, state-controlled Chinese oil company Cnooc Ltd.
made an $18.5 billion bid for U.S. oil producer Unocal Corp and
later withdrew the offer in the face of opposition from U.S.
lawmakers. In 2006, Dubai Ports World, a state-owned company in
the United Arab Emirates, acquired commercial operations at six
U.S. ports when it bought a U.K.-based company. While CFIUS
approved the deal, Dubai Ports sold the operations after U.S.
lawmakers objected to the foreign ownership.  “In the case of BAE-EADS, bigger issues are likely to be
at play,” said Sweet, who formerly served as the chief of staff
at the Department of Homeland Security. Chertoff Group co-
founder Michael Chertoff is chairman of of BAE’s U.S. unit.  A continuing dispute between the U.S. and the European
Union over government subsidies to Boeing and Airbus may put
pressure on U.S. lawmakers to oppose the deal, Sweet said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  