-- Bankruptcy Auctions Go Online to Boost Cash for Creditors
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-09-28T14:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/bankruptcy-auctions-go-online-to-boost-cash-for-creditors.html
Joel L. Tabas, a bankruptcy trustee
in Miami, bypassed traditional liquidators when faced with the
challenge of selling a debtor’s 2006 Hummer H3 this year.
Instead, he put it on EBay.  Trustees across the U.S. are turning to Internet
marketplaces such as  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the world’s largest, to fetch
higher prices for assets, boosting recoveries for creditors.
Online offerings have included a $1.5 million  California  house
with a view of Mount Shasta, 215 pairs of sneakers from football
star Warren Sapp’s Air Jordan collection and a set of  Arizona 
cemetery plots.  Online sales are “the single most revolutionary tool the
auction business has ever seen,” said Mark Weitz, 52, a unit
president of  Great American Group Inc. (GAMR) , a liquidator with
offices in  Los Angeles , Chicago,  Boston  and London.  As much as $2 billion in assets moves through bankruptcy
courts in Chapter 7 cases and at least $10 billion in assets
from Chapter 11 363 sale cases, of which a portion are now sold
over the Internet, said Vahak Papasian, a Los Angeles-area
bankruptcy lawyer. Online bankruptcy sales, which began about
2005, now account for about 20 percent of the business at  Meares
Auction Group  in Pelzer, South Carolina, said company President
David Meares.  “It’s all over the country,” Meares said in a telephone
interview. His company, which started in 1972, generates total
sales of $300,000 to $1 million a year selling items such as
gold to overseas buyers and guns in the U.S., he said.  EBay Competition  The increase in online bankruptcy auctions has attracted
competitors to San Jose, California-based EBay, which has more
than $13 billion in  annual sales . At  Inforuptcy.com , the
Burbank, California-based website Papasian co-founded with
Michael Mikikian, a former Jefferies & Co. vice president, users
can download court filings and buy and sell bankruptcy assets
and claims.  Hilco Trading LLC, a veteran bankruptcy liquidator based in
Northbrook,  Illinois , recently started its own site,
hilcoipauctions.com. The sale of the intellectual property of
bankrupt Advanta Corp., including trademarks and copyrights,
began in late August on Hilco’s platform.  Proxibid Inc. , the world’s largest provider of live auction
webcasting services, handled more than 200 bankruptcy auctions
last year, almost twice as many as three years earlier,
President Ryan Downs said. The value of the goods climbed to $50
million, or about 5 percent of the total processed by the Omaha,
Nebraska-based company.  Competitive Bidding  Bankruptcy auctions “do well on our platform,” Downs said
in a telephone interview. “This competitive bidding aspect does
increase prices.”  Con man  Bernard Madoff ’s  New York  Mets jacket, offered on
proxibid.com by the U.S. Marshal’s office at an estimated price
of $700, sold for more than $14,000, Downs said.  “We’ve been doing vehicle sales for about a year online
almost exclusively,” Tabas said in a telephone interview. Live
auctions often draw “car dealers who are going to flip them,”
he said.  “Most times, with online auctions you are selling to the
end-user, so you get closer to a private-party sale value,”
Tabas said.  ‘Promote Effectiveness’  Improving  information technology  will help “promote
effectiveness and efficiency” in the courts, the U.S. Trustee’s
office, the Justice Department arm that oversees bankruptcy
cases, said in its strategic plan for the next four years. The
push stems partly from a “dramatic increase” in case filings
from 2008 to 2010, the office said.  The 1.6 million of total bankruptcies in 2010, in the wake
of the global financial crisis, were the most since the record
of 2.1 million in 2005, when Americans sought to beat new laws
making it harder to cancel debt, according to data compiled from
court records by  Epiq Systems Inc. (EPIQ)  Bankruptcies through August
were on track to total 1.25 million this year, down 9 percent
from last year’s 1.38 million, the data showed.  While Advanta, a Spring House, Pennsylvania-based
financial-services company, initially filed to reorganize under
Chapter 11 of the  Bankruptcy Code , most online auctions involve
debtors who sought to liquidate using the code’s Chapter 7.  In Chapter 7, a U.S. Trustee, or sometimes a judge,
appoints an impartial trustee to administer the case and
liquidate assets such as automobiles, which many filers aren’t
allowed to keep.  Sales Commission  A trustee’s main duty is to maximize the value of the
bankruptcy estate for the benefit of creditors by recovering and
selling property. The trustee gets paid a portion of the filing
fee and an incentive-based commission from asset sales.  About 1,000 designated Chapter 7 trustees administer more
than 1 million cases a year, most of them personal bankruptcies
with no assets, according to the National Association of
Bankruptcy Trustees’  website .  “The Internet, including EBay Motors, has developed as an
excellent source to liquidate assets of bankruptcy estates,”
Tabas said in court papers. “The estate incurs minimal costs
and achieves national exposure to potential purchasers.”  Hummer Auction  EBay doesn’t keep statistics on how many of its sales
involve bankruptcies, Johnna Hoff, a spokeswoman, said in a
phone interview. Tabas listed the Hummer, a sport-utility
vehicle built by General Motors Co., on EBay with a reserve
price of $8,500. It sold in July for $9,600 after 536 visits and
11 bids, according to court papers.  Raymond Obuchowski, a Chapter 7 trustee in Vermont,
initially found no takers for a bankrupt’s 18th-century violin,
made by Laurentius Storioni. Marketing the violin on
 inforuptcy.com  garnered a stalking horse bid of more than
$14,000. The instrument sold for $21,000 at an auction held by
Obuchowski, according to Mikikian.  Going online doesn’t always work out. Sapp, a former Pro
Bowl defensive lineman for the  National Football League ’s
Oakland Raiders and  Tampa Bay Buccaneers , filed for bankruptcy
in March. His sneakers, offered on EBay by trustee Kenneth Welt
in Fort Lauderdale,  Florida , were withdrawn after bids failed to
reach the reserve price, the lowest that would be accepted.  When a reserve price isn’t met, trustees may put the item
up for auction again or go back to the highest bidder and try to
work out a deal, Tabas said.  “You have to kind of consider the circumstances and do the
best you can,” he said. “It’s all a judgment call.”  Plots Available  The California home and the six Arizona cemetery plots are
still available on bankruptcysales.com, a site set up by the
National Association of Bankruptcy Trustees.  Darren Julien, head of  Julien’s Auctions  in Beverly Hills,
California, said there are other pitfalls to using online
platforms like EBay. Julien, who bills his company as
“Auctioneer to the Stars,” has overseen auctions of
memorabilia once owned by celebrities such as  Michael Jackson ,
 Johnny Cash , Bette Midler and Cher.  “On EBay, you have to worry about authenticity,” said
Julien, whose company does research to establish an item’s
provenance. Under EBay’s “Buyer Protection” plan, a buyer must
contact the seller and try to work out any dispute. If they
can’t, EBay takes “a more active role in ensuring transaction
problems are resolved,” according to its website.  Holyfield Memorabilia  On Nov. 30, Julien’s will hold an auction for boxing
champion Evander Holyfield’s memorabilia in Beverly Hills.
Holyfield is trying to pay down debt after his 109-room home in
Fairburn,  Georgia , was sold in March for $7.5 million in a
foreclosure auction, according to the New York Daily News.  Bidders can take part in person, online or over the
telephone. Julien’s Beverly Hills gallery will hold a public
exhibition in the days leading up to the auction, where
Holyfield’s collectibles will be on display: gloves worn in the
June 1997 “bite fight” with  Mike Tyson , championship rings, a
1962 Chevrolet Corvette, Holyfield’s 1984 Olympic bronze medal
and Rolex, Cartier and Patek Phillipe watches.  Full-color catalogs signed by Holyfield will go for $250
each, according to Julien’s website, which touts the auction as
“The Main Event.”  “You can’t generate this kind of excitement online,”
Julien said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  