-- BG Lines Up Japan to Finance LNG Projects as Costs Rise
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-09-28T16:10:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/bg-lines-up-japan-to-finance-lng-projects-as-costs-rise-1-.html
BG Group Plc (BG/) , the U.K.’s third-
largest natural gas producer, lined up the  Japan Bank for
International Cooperation  to fund projects to liquefy the fuel
as costs rise.  The Japanese lender joins the Bank of China, Brazilian
 Development Bank  and Export Development Bank of Canada, which
agreed to fund BG projects in the last 18 months, the Reading,
England-based company said today in a statement.  The agreement is “aimed at supporting the long-term supply
of liquefied natural gas to Japan and creating opportunities for
Japanese companies to participate in energy projects around the
world,” BG said.  BG’s cost estimate for its LNG project in Queensland,
Australia, surged 36 percent to $20.4 billion in May. It plans
to invest $22 billion in projects this year and next, after
raising debt by 63 percent to $11.3 billion last year with new
loans and bonds, it said in February. Net debt stood at $10.2
billion as of June 30.  BG  shares  have fallen about 19 percent in  London  since the
March 16 peak this year. The stock closed unchanged at 1,250
pence today.  “This year’s capital expenditure increase in Australia and
then the group production downgrade were disappointing,”
Theepan Jothilingam, an oil analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
wrote in a Sept. 6 report. Shares fell because of the “weak
equity markets, lower  oil prices  and concerns about the
profitability of its Australian business.”  In July, BG reduced its estimate for output at the end of
this year to 720,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day from
750,000 barrels after output was halted at the North Sea’s Elgin
field and the startup at the Jasmine deposit was delayed until
next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  