-- Bingham, Simpson Thacher, Ballard Spahr: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-09-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/bingham-simpson-thacher-ballard-spahr-business-of-law.html
Bingham McCutchen LLP represented
 Tempur-Pedic International Inc. (TPX) , which agreed to buy  Sealy Corp. (ZZ) 
for about $229 million, combining two mattress companies once
controlled by private-equity firms.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP is representing Sealy. Blank
Rome LLP advised an independent committee of Sealy’s board.  Tempur-Pedic, a pioneer of memory-foam mattresses based in
Lexington, Kentucky, will assume or repay all of Sealy’s
outstanding and convertible debt, for a total deal value of $1.3
billion, according to a statement yesterday. The offer of $2.20
a share is 2.8 percent more than Sealy’s closing price Sept. 26.  The Bingham team is led by corporate partner John Utzschneider and includes partners Bill Berkowitz, Brandon
Bigelow, Scott Bluni, Benjamin Burkhart, Jim Black, Anthony Carbone, Natascha George, Russ Isaia, Amy Kyle, Christina
Melendi, Amy Mugherini, Lou Rodriques, Carl Valenstein and Mike
Wigmore.  Mergers and acquisitions partner Sean Rodgers is leading
the Simpson Thacher team. Additional partners include James Cross, credit; Joe Kaufman, capital markets, Andrea Wahlquist,
executive compensation and employee benefits; Nancy Mehlman,
tax; and Joe Tringali, antitrust.  From Blank Rome, Barry Genkin and Alan Lieblich advised the
independent committee of Sealy’s board.  Tempur-Pedic, which a decade ago was owned by TA Associates
Inc., is gaining brands including Sealy Posturepedic and Stearns
& Foster from Sealy, a mattress maker that dates back to 1881
and is 44 percent- owned  by New York-based private-equity firm
KKR & Co. The transaction, expected to be completed in the first
half of 2013, will create cost savings of more than $40 million
by the third year, the companies said.  Tempur-Pedic specializes in non-spring mattresses, making
its products with a pressure-absorbing foam, drawing on
technology first used by NASA to support astronauts in
spacecraft.  For more, click here.  M&A Slumps to Lowest Level Since ’09 as Economy Concerns Persist  Global mergers and acquisitions slumped this quarter to a
level not seen since the aftermath of the financial crisis amid
increasing concern that the economic recovery is deteriorating.  Companies have announced $446 billion of takeovers since
June 30, the smallest amount since the third quarter of 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chinese state-run oil
company Cnooc Ltd.’s proposed purchase of Nexen Inc. was the
only transaction to top $10 billion in the period, the data
show. Acquisitions are now on pace to drop 15 percent in 2012 to
$2 trillion, the lowest in three years.  Cross-border takeovers have accounted for about half of all
announced deals this year, a trend that may continue with
European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. in talks to combine
with BAE Systems Plc. Still, while chief executive officers
worldwide are sitting on at least $3.4 trillion in cash, many
remain reluctant to pursue deals as Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis drags on and signs grow that China’s economy is slowing.  “Executives have the cash, but they don’t have the
conviction,” said Andrew Bednar, head of advisory at Perella
Weinberg Partners LP, the New York-based investment bank. “I
don’t see any miraculous change in the M&A markets for the
foreseeable future.”  This quarter’s slowdown has been most pronounced in Europe,
where takeovers accounted for about $92 billion, or
21 percent, of global activity, the continent’s lowest share
since 2010. The Americas accounted for $248 billion of
transactions, and there were $104.5 billion in the Asia-Pacific
region.  For more, click here.  News  Blocking Identity Theft Is U.S. Goal Ahead of Tax Filing  The U.S. Justice Department and the Internal Revenue
Service are working to head off identity theft aimed at stealing
people’s tax refunds when the filing season begins in January,
the government’s top tax prosecutor, Kathryn Keneally, said.  The Justice Department will draw information from local
prosecutions to identify patterns in the cases and help the IRS
create computerized filters to block potentially fraudulent
refunds. They peak each year in the first few weeks of the
filing season as criminals try to get refunds under legitimate
taxpayers’ names before those people file their own returns.  “The schemes can be extraordinarily simple, and they
vary,” Keneally, assistant attorney general for the Tax
Division, told reporters yesterday in Washington.  In a typical case, criminals steal or illegally purchase
taxpayers’ identifying information from hospitals, medical
offices, prisons and other places that have the data. They then
file false tax returns, claim a refund and have the money
deposited on a prepaid debit card.  Keneally, formerly a partner at Fulbright & Jaworski LLP,
also said yesterday that the assignment of Tax Division
attorneys to federal prosecutors’ offices around the country is
ending as scheduled Oct. 1. Bloomberg News reported March 27
that 25 of the 95 prosecutors in the division had been given
six-month assignments around the country.  “We are looking forward to welcoming back” the lawyers,
who mostly worked on tax cases while they were working in other
offices, she said. She said fewer than 10 accepted offers to
remain outside Washington.  Litigation  Adoboli Co-Worker on UBS ETF Desk Says Deserved to Be Fired  John Hughes, who worked with Kweku Adoboli on the  UBS AG (UBSN) 
ETF desk and didn’t alert management to a secret account Adoboli
had where he hid profits to cover future losses, testified his
firing was fair.  “I don’t see myself as a casualty,” Hughes said at his
former co-worker’s London fraud trial yesterday. “I think I
fully deserved to be dismissed.”  Hughes testified earlier this week that Adoboli told him in
January 2011 he had a secret account he called his umbrella,
which Hughes believed was profits from unbooked trades Adoboli
later used to cover losses. Prosecutors say he called it his
umbrella because it would protect him “on a rainy day.”  Adoboli’s lawyer,  Charles Sherrard , of Furnival Chambers,
said yesterday that Hughes had made his own off-book trades,
knew of the umbrella account and “at times controlled it.”
Adoboli’s actions were “learned behavior,” Sherrard said.
Hughes was fired for gross misconduct after Adoboli was arrested
in September last year.  Prosecutors have charged Adoboli with fraud and false
accounting tied to unauthorized trades on which UBS lost $2.3
billion. The former trader admitted hours before his arrest that
he had risked $5 billion on Standard & Poor’s 500 futures and a
further $3.75 billion in the German futures market, a former
manager testified. Adoboli has pleaded not guilty.  Hughes, who worked with Adoboli to manage a trading book as
large as $15 billion, threw his co-worker “to the lions” when
he was arrested, Sherrard said. There were at least four other
accounts within UBS similar to Adoboli’s umbrella, the lawyer
said. Hughes denied knowing about any besides Adoboli’s.  For more, click here.  Freddie Mac Wins Dismissal of Securities-Fraud Lawsuit  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  won’t have to face a lawsuit filed by investors
accusing it of misrepresenting the state of its finances in 2007
and 2008, a federal judge ruled.  “We are gratified that the court recognized ‘the bevy of
truthful disclosures that Freddie Mac made,’” Bingham McCutchen
LLP’s Jordan Hershman, who served as lead counsel for Freddie
Mac, said in an e-mail.  The investors failed to supply enough evidence that the
McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance company and some of its
senior managers intended to defraud them, U.S. District Judge
John F. Keenan said in a ruling filed Sept. 26 in federal court
in Manhattan.  The judge rejected contentions by the plaintiffs including
the Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Fund
and the National Elevator Industry Pension Plan that Freddie
Mac’s disclosures were misleading. The information Freddie Mac
provided was detailed, not opaque, the judge said.  “It defies logic to conclude that executives who are
seeking to perpetrate fraudulent information upon the market
would make such fulsome disclosures,” Keenan said in his
opinion. He dismissed the case with prejudice, meaning the
plaintiffs are barred from filing again.  A lawyer for the plaintiffs, Samuel H. Rudman, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Kuriakose v. Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.,
08-cv-7281, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Moves  HHS Official Joins King & Spalding’s Health-Care Practice  Mark D. Polston joined King & Spalding LLP as a partner in
the Washington health-care practice. Polston joins the firm from
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, where for the
past seven years he was the deputy associate general counsel for
litigation in the office of general counsel, CMS division.  Polston has more than 20 years of experience in federal
litigation, including Medicare, Medicaid and Affordable Care Act
regulatory policies, as well as health-care fraud litigation,
enforcement and investigations.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Real Estate Lawyer David Barksdale Returns to Ballard Spahr  David A. Barksdale has returned to Ballard Spahr LLP as a
real estate partner in the firm’s Los Angeles office.  He left Ballard Spahr earlier this year to join the real
estate finance group at Alston & Bird LLP in Los Angeles, the
firm said in a statement.  Barksdale focuses his practice on real estate finance,
investment and development, with an emphasis on loan
originations, strategic investments and distressed real estate
transactions. He advises lenders, investors, special servicers,
and borrowers on complex real estate debt and equity
transactions, the restructuring of distressed real estate
projects, and enforcement matters, the firm said.  He brings with him a counsel and associate, both members of
the real estate department.  Ballard Spahr LLP has more than 500 lawyers in 13 offices
in the U.S.  Neal, Gerber & Eisenberg Hires Litigation Partner  Neal, Gerber & Eisenberg LLP hired Karl R. Barnickol as a
partner in its 50-lawyer litigation group in Chicago.  Barnickol, who was previously at Katten Muchin Rosenman
LLP, focuses on the defense of complex mass torts and class
actions. He has represented content providers and software
developers involved in publishing industry-specific business
data suits. He also manages securities and corporate governance
litigation, civil and criminal antitrust claims and consumer
fraud actions, the firm said.  Neal Gerber has almost 170 attorneys in its Chicago office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  