-- BlackRock Acquires Moscow Exchange Stake From Kremlin Fund
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-09-28T13:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/blackrock-acquires-moscow-exchange-stake-from-kremlin-fund-2-.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
asset manager, bought shares in the  Moscow Exchange (INDEXCF)  from the
 Russia  Direct Investment Fund before the bourse’s planned
initial public offering, the Kremlin-backed fund said.  RDIF had a 2.7 percent holding in the bourse, after
boosting its stake in July. The Russian private-equity fund
isn’t disclosing the size of the stake it sold or the price,
Quinn Martin, a spokesman, said by e-mail.  BlackRock,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Templeton Asset
Management Ltd. signed an accord with RDIF on June 21 to invest
in Russian companies preparing for initial public offerings. The
Moscow Exchange plans to sell shares next year, Ruben Aganbegyan, then the president of the bourse, said in an April
17 interview in  New York .  “It’s not a very large investment, it’s more the fact that
BlackRock is participating,”  Kirill Dmitriev , RDIF’s chief
executive officer, said by phone today.  RDIF may bring one more investor into the Moscow Exchange,
Dmitriev said. The pre-IPO group is looking to invest in
companies outside the oil and gas industries in Russia, Dmitriev
said.  In July, RDIF teamed up with Cartesian Capital Group LLC to
buy shares in the Moscow Exchange, which manages the benchmark
Micex Index. The deal was Cartesian’s first in a Russian
company. The whole bourse was valued at about 129 billion rubles
($4.2 billion), Tatyana Elizarova, an analyst at IFC Metropol,
said at the time.  ‘Market Window’  The fund raised its stake in the Moscow Exchange to 2.7
percent in that transaction, having acquired 1.25 percent in
January in a joint deal with the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, which bought 6.29 percent.  “BlackRock is a smart fund with a great reputation,”
 Roland Nash , chief investment strategist at Moscow-based Verno
Capital, which manages $200 million in Russian equities, said by
phone. “It’s going to be very good for the Micex and the
Russian market in general.”  The Moscow Exchange’s shareholders include Russia’s central
bank and OAO Sberbank, the nation’s biggest lender, according to
data on the exchange’s website.  Aganbegyan, who was leading the exchange’s IPO plans, left
this month to head Moscow-based Otkritie Financial Corp. The
bourse plans to seek more than $1 billion in the IPO next year,
“when a market window is there,” he said in April.  The Moscow bourse was created when the Micex Stock Exchange
merged with the RTS Exchange in December, and offers stock,
bond, currency and futures trading.  The Kremlin established RDIF in 2011 to help lure foreign
investment as the government tries to wean the world’s largest
energy exporter off its dependence on commodity sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  