-- Bo Expelled From Party as Leaders Clear Way for Changes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-29T06:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/bo-xilai-is-expelled-from-communist-party-referred-to-judiciary.html
     Sept. 29 (Bloomberg) -- China ’s Communist Party expelled
former Politburo member Bo Xilai yesterday and said he will face
criminal charges, reaching consensus on a murder scandal that
roiled the political elite and clearing the way for a once-in-a-
decade transition of power in November.  Bo abused his power, bore “major responsibility” in the
murder of British businessman Neil Heywood and had improper
sexual relations with several women, the official Xinhua News
Agency said. China’s Politburo removed him from public office
and transfered his case to the judicial system, Xinhua said.  “They’ve thrown the kitchen sink at him,” said Steven
Tsang, director of the China Policy Institute at the University
of Nottingham in the U.K. The announcement “means the party has
a basic lineup for the leadership. It’s a good thing for them.
They’ve reached agreement on the succession,” Tsang said.  The decision is part of an effort by China’s leaders to
deal decisively with a scandal that embarrassed the Communist
Party, saw Bo’s wife convicted of murder and upset plans for a
smooth transition of power set for this year. The condemnation
of Bo, son of one of the founders of the People’s Republic of
China, aims to paint his case as an aberration at a time when
the party is trying to bolster its legitimacy amid a widening
wealth gap and rising unrest.  In a separate Xinhua announcement, the Politburo decided it
would hold the 18th Communist Party Congress, where China’s next
generation of leaders will be anointed, beginning Nov. 8.  Party Chief  Bo was the party chief of southwestern China’s Chongqing
Municipality until he was ousted in March. He was suspended from
China’s Politburo in April and accused of serious disciplinary
violations, as his wife, Gu Kailai, was accused in the murder of
British businessman Neil Heywood.  Bo’s wrongdoing dates back to his time as mayor of Dalian,
governor of Liaoning province and minister of commerce, Xinhua
said. It said investigators had “found clues to his suspected
involvement in other crimes.”  Gu was convicted Aug. 20 and sentenced to death with a two-
year reprieve after she confessed in a one-day trial to
poisoning Neil Heywood in a hotel room because she believed he
posed a threat to her son as a result of a financial dispute.  A month later, Wang Lijun, the former Chongqing police
chief and Bo protege who exposed evidence of Gu’s crime to U.S.
diplomats, was convicted on all four charges connected to the
case, including bribe-taking and abuse of power. Prosecutors
said he tried to cover up the murder.  Wang’s Trial  A Sept. 19 Xinhua account of Wang’s trial recounted how
Chongqing’s most senior official slapped Wang across the face
when he presented evidence that Gu was involved in the murder.
Although Bo was not identified by name, he was the most-senior
official in the city at the time.  Bo’s behavior “badly undermined” the reputation of the
Party and the country, created a “very negative impact at home
and abroad,” and significantly damaged the cause of the Party
and people, Xinhua said.  “This outcome shows that for all its attempts to show a
better nature, the Party remains at heart ruthlessly focused on
power, and absolutely unforgiving to those who are seen as
impeding this by making the Party weak,” said Kerry Brown, a
professor at the  University of Sydney  who served as a British
diplomat in Beijing.  Slowing Growth  China’s new leaders face a slowing economy and also have to
contend with public discontent over official corruption and a
widening wealth gap. The economy may struggle to reach its 7.5
percent expansion target this year, according to data from areas
including production and exports, compared with growth exceeding
9 percent when President  Hu Jintao  and Premier  Wen Jiabao  took
power in 2003.  The leadership transition also follows the worst quarterly
loss for  Shanghai  stocks this year. The  Shanghai Composite (SHCOMP)  Index
lost 6.3 percent this quarter, the most since the three months
ended December, on concern the slowdown is deepening. The gauge
is valued at 9.7 times estimated earnings, compared with the
average of 17.9 since Bloomberg began compiling the weekly data
in 2006.  Yesterday’s news is “quite positive to the economy and
markets for two reasons,” Lu Ting, chief  Greater China 
economist at Bank of America Corp. in  Hong Kong , wrote in a note
to clients. “One, it will significantly reduce perceived
political and economic risks; two, it will help end policy
paralysis.”  Family Wealth  Bo’s ouster has focused attention on the accumulation of
wealth by politically-connected families. The extended families
of Bo and Gu, for example, accumulated at least $136 million in
company shares and property, according to regulatory and
corporate filings.  At a briefing days before he was ousted, Bo denied that his
son Bo Guagua, who attended Oxford and Harvard University’s John
F. Kennedy School of Government, drove a Ferrari. Bo Guagua
graduated from Harvard with a master’s degree this year.  The severity of the charges against Bo fits a past pattern
“wherein the party decided that no one should be portrayed as
having elements of both good and evil within them -- they were
either wholly devoted to the party and the people or wholly evil
and against them,” said June Teufel Dreyer, a professor of
political science at the  University of Miami  who focuses on
China. “A domestic version of  Mao’s ‘whoever is not with us is
against us’ in foreign policy.”  ‘Strike Black’  A former commerce minister, Bo, 63, rose to prominence for
his moves in Chongqing to boost social spending and state-led
financing, and revive songs and slogans from the era of Chairman
 Mao Zedong . Bo’s crackdown on organized crime, called “da
hei,” or “strike black,” was a cornerstone of his tenure.  While in Chongqing, a municipality whose population of 29
million is larger than that of any U.S. state except  California ,
Bo sought to balance the fastest municipal growth rate in the
country with measures to stop millions of rural migrants being
left behind by China’s industrial boom.  The number of so-called mass incidents -- strikes, protests
and riots -- doubled nationwide in the period from 2006 to 2010
to 180,000 a year, Sun Liping, a sociologist at Beijing’s
Tsinghua University, wrote last year.  Bo was touted as a possible candidate for the Politburo
Standing Committee, the country’s most powerful ruling body,
whose new membership will be unveiled at the end of the 18th
Communist Party Congress.  Police Chief  Bo’s downfall was set in motion by Wang, who led his battle
against organized crime in Chongqing. In early February, Wang
fled to the U.S. Consulate in  Chengdu , where he outlined to
American officials a plot of  money laundering , betrayal and
murder involving Gu, according to current and former U.S.
officials briefed on the matter.  Wen hinted at a rift when he told a briefing in Beijing a
day before Bo was ousted as Chongqing party secretary that the
city’s leaders must reflect on Wang’s flight to the U.S.
consulate. In an indication of deeper ideological differences
with Bo, Wen warned of the dangers of returning to the chaos of
the 1966-76 Cultural Revolution, which Mao spearheaded.  Bo’s isn’t the first case of a Politburo member to be
referred to the criminal justice system. Former Beijing party
chief Chen Xitong was imprisoned for corruption following his
1995 Politburo expulsion and former Shanghai party boss  Chen Liangyu  was sentenced to 18 years in prison in 2008 for taking
bribes after he was expelled from the Politburo in 2006.  Chen was replaced in Shanghai by Xi Jinping, the current
vice president, who is forecast to take over the top party and
government positions within the next year.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  