-- BOE Seen Keeping Bond-Buying Program on Hold as Lending Assessed
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/boe-seen-keeping-bond-buying-program-on-hold-as-lending-assessed.html
The  Bank of England  will maintain
the size of its bond-buying program next week as policy makers
assess the impact on the economy of its new 61 billion-pound
($99 billion) credit-boosting program, economists said.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor
 Mervyn King  will keep its target for  bond purchases  at 375
billion pounds, said all 40 economists in a Bloomberg News
 survey.  It will also hold its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record-low 0.5 percent, a separate  poll  showed.  Data this week showed the economy shrank less than
previously thought in the three months through June and a report
today showed services rebounded in July, signalling the U.K. may
have exited recession in the third quarter. Some MPC members
have said they want to gauge the results of the  Funding for
Lending Scheme , which started on Aug. 1, before deciding on the
need for further stimulus.  “At this juncture, the committee is effectively in ‘on
hold’ mode, albeit with a bias towards easing, and a move next
week is probably off the cards,” said  Philip Shaw , an economist
at Investec Securities in  London . While Investec forecasts
policy makers will expand their bond program by 50 billion
pounds in November, “there are a number of arguments to suggest
that there is a degree of uncertainty” about this, Shaw said.  The MPC voted 9-0 to keep the target of its so-called
quantitative-easing plan on hold on Sept. 6 as the central bank
buys 50 billion pounds of gilts in a program due to run until
November. Still, some officials said they “felt that additional
stimulus was more likely than not to be needed in due course,”
according to minutes of the monthly meeting published last week.  The Bank of England will announce the outcome of its policy
gathering at noon on Oct. 4. The  European Central Bank , which
this month released details of an unlimited bond-purchase
program to help tame the region’s debt crisis, will announce its
policy decision 45 minutes later.  All 50 economists surveyed forecast the Bank of England
will keep its benchmark rate unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  