-- Bovespa Posts Biggest Weekly Drop Since May on Global Slowdown
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-09-28T20:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/bovespa-stock-index-futures-decline-amid-renewed-europe-concern.html
The  Bovespa (IBOV)  index posted its
biggest weekly decline since May after economic data in the U.S.
that trailed forecasts added to concern the global slowdown may
deepen, dimming the outlook for Brazilian stocks.  Beef and poultry exporters BRF  Brasil Foods  SA and Marfrig
Alimentos SA fell after JPMorgan Chase & Co. lowered its rating
for both stocks to the equivalent of sell.  Banco do Brasil SA 
led losses by banks after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its
recommendation to the equivalent of hold and Valor Economico
said the state-controlled lender will lower some fees. Card
payment processor Cielo SA tumbled the most since May 2010.  The Bovespa dropped 1.8 percent to 59,175.86 at the close
of trading in  Sao Paulo , pushing the weekly decline to 3.5
percent and trimming this month’s advance to 3.7 percent. Fifty-
one stocks fell on the gauge today while 17 rose. The real
strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.0269 per  U.S. dollar  at 5:46 p.m.
local time.  “According to the data we’ve seen lately, the U.S. seems
to be approaching a recession,” Rogerio Freitas, a partner at
Rio de Janeiro-based hedge fund Teorica Investimentos, said in a
phone interview. “We may be getting closer to a big correction
in the equity market, as current prices don’t reflect in any way
the actual state of the world economy.”  U.S. stocks dropped after the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. said its business barometer fell to 49.7
this month from 53 in August. The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index
retreated 0.5 percent, pushing the measure down 1.3 percent for
the week.  Banks Tumble  Banco do Brasil slumped 3.9 percent to 24.80 reais. Banco
Bradesco SA tumbled 1.7 percent to 32.57 reais and Itau Unibanco
Holding SA lost 2.9 percent to 30.59 reais.  Banco do Brasil’s decision to cut fees it charges customers
is part of President Dilma Rousseff’s strategy to lower
financing costs in  Brazil , Valor Economico reported, citing
unidentified government officials. Banco do Brasil’s press
office didn’t comment on Valor’s report when contacted by
 Bloomberg News .  “Lower interest rates and fees will surely have a negative
impact on the industry’s revenues,” Fausto Gouveia, who helps
manage 380 million reais ($187 million) at Legan Administracao
de Recursos, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “It’s another small
piece of bad news in a day that’s already pretty ugly in the
market.”  Marfrig tumbled 1.7 percent to 11.80 reais, snapping a
five-day advance. Brasil Foods lost 1.7 percent to 35.01 reais.  Marisa Lojas, Cielo  Apparel retailer Marisa Lojas SA declined 3.8 percent to 25
reais after Banco BTG Pactual SA cut its recommendation to the
equivalent to hold.  Cielo led declines on the Bovespa, falling 7.3 percent to
50.59 reais. Newspaper O Estado de S. Paulo reported that the
government may take action to reduce fees card-payment
processors charge retailers, citing Finance Minister  Guido
Mantega .  The Bovespa has climbed 8.9 percent this quarter as
stimulus from central banks around the world eased economic
concern and borrowing costs at a record low in Brazil boosted
demand for equities. The index is up 4.3 percent this year and
trades at 13.3 times analysts’ earnings estimates for the next
four quarters, which compares with the ratio of 11.3 times for
MSCI Inc.’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 8.24 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo today, which compares with a daily average of 7.32 billion
reais this year through Sept. 26, according to data compiled by
the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  