-- California Youth Football Coach Probed Amid Bounty Allegations
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-09-29T04:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/california-youth-football-investigated-amid-bounty-allegations.html
A  California  children’s football
association president and team head coach were suspended amid
allegations that money was offered to 10- and 11-year-old
players to knock opponents out of games.  Tustin, California, Pop Warner coach Darren Crawford and
association President Pat Galentine were suspended while the Pop
Warner’s national office investigates the bounty allegations,
Jon Butler, Pop Warner’s executive director, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The bounty program took place during the Tustin Red Cobras’
undefeated 2011 season, the  Orange County Register said , citing
an assistant coach, a parent and players. Galentine was an
assistant for the Red Cobras in 2011, the Register said.  After the Orange Empire Conference, which oversees the
Tustin Pop Warner program, investigated and decided not to
sanction anyone, the national Pop Warner program started its own
investigation.  “In light of new information and players coming forward
who did not participate in the league investigation, National
Pop Warner will intervene to further investigate,” Butler said.  Crawford and Galentine both denied the existence of a
bounty program, according to the Register. They were asked “to
step down until this situation is finalized,” Butler said.  National Pop Warner spokesman Josh Pruce said he didn’t
have contact information for Crawford and Galentine. Neither
name was found in Internet searches for contact information.  The  National Football League  this year suspended New
Orleans Saint coach  Sean Payton  for the 2012 season and barred
four players for their alleged roles in a bounty program in
2010, when the team won the  Super Bowl .  The NFL found that players were paid for big hits and
targeted opponents, including Super Bowl-winning quarterbacks
 Brett Favre  and Kurt Warner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  