-- Cameron Promises U.K. Voters ‘Fresh Consent’ Over EU Ties
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-09-28T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/cameron-promises-u-k-voters-fresh-consent-over-eu-ties.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
the U.K. will seek a “fresh settlement” over its relationship
with the European Union, promising “fresh consent” on the
matter while stopping short of committing to a referendum.  The premier will use a speech this fall to set out his
approach to Europe, pointing to the economic crisis in the euro
area as a reason for Britain to retain an arm’s length
relationship with the EU.  “A new settlement and a fresh consent from the British
people, that is what I believe we need,” Cameron told  Sky News 
today in  Rio de Janeiro ,  Brazil , where he is leading a trade
delegation. “I think that is the way the country wants to go
and that is the way we should go, safeguarding Britain’s
interests.”  Cameron is under pressure from his own Conservative
lawmakers to set out a more euroskeptic stance on  Europe  and a
referendum on the country’s membership. He is under equal
pressure from his Liberal Democrat coalition partners to embrace
closer integration.  “The euro zone of 17 countries with one currency; I
believe that one day they are going to move towards one economic
policy,” Cameron said. “We are not going to be part of that
and I think that will provide over time opportunities for a new
settlement between Britain and Europe.”  One of the most dangerous areas for Cameron in dealing with
his party will come in the EU budget negotiations, slated for
November. At a time when the prime minister is overseeing
austerity at home, any result other than a reduced contribution
from the U.K. will be criticized.  British Opposition  Also under negotiation this year are plans to introduce EU-
wide rules on banking, with Britain arguing its own institutions
shouldn’t be covered. Cameron last year refused to join 25 other
nations in an EU-wide treaty to rescue the euro.  “In the next Parliament, I think there will be
opportunities for a fresh settlement and for new consent to that
settlement,” Cameron told ITN News.  After a Sept. 24 private dinner for business leaders at his
party’s annual conference, Liberal Democrat leader  Nick Clegg 
described opponents of Britain’s membership of the EU as
“insular,” “chauvinistic” and “short-sighted.”  More than a quarter of Tory lawmakers defied the prime
minister last year to vote for a referendum on leaving the EU.
Cameron believes Britain should remain in the bloc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  