-- Canada Gas Declines Following U.S. Market Drop From Year’s High
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2012-09-28T20:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/canada-gas-declines-following-u-s-market-drop-from-year-s-high.html
Canadian natural gas declined as
traders sold contracts after U.S. prices reached a nine-month
high.  October gas in Alberta  fell 1.2 percent, breaking a three-
day stretch of rising prices, after U.S. storage data yesterday
showed inventories advancing to 3.576 trillion cubic feet last
week, a record seasonal level.  Traders were taking profits after futures on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange surged yesterday to the highest level since
December, said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC in Austin,  Texas . “Prices got more exuberant than is
justified by current fundamentals,” he said.  Alberta  gas for October delivery dropped 3 cents to C$2.495
per gigajoule ($2.41 per million British thermal units) as of
3:05 p.m. New York time.  Natural gas for November delivery on the Nymex rose 2.3
cents to settle at $3.32 per million British thermal units, as
concern eased that inventories will reach their limits before
winter boosts demand for the fuel.  Mild weather is expected for most of the U.S. into the
middle of next week. A cool front forecast to move into  Canada 
and the U.S. Midwest from Oct. 5-9 may drive  Chicago ’s low to 40
degrees Fahrenheit (4 Celsius), according to  MDA EarthSat
Weather  of Gaithersburg, Maryland.  “It’s going to get chilly for a week or two, but far from
mid-winter-type cold, before slow warming trends should return
thereafter,” MDA forecaster  Bob Haas  wrote in a note to
clients.  Heating Demand  U.S. heating demand over the next seven days is expected to
be 47 percent below the seasonal average, Weather Derivatives in
Belton,  Missouri , said today.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output from most of Canada’s gas wells, was 15.8 billion cubic
feet at 2 p.m. New York time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.17 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.93 billion cubic feet.  Kingsgate Capacity  Capacity on TransCanada’s  British Columbia system  at
Kingsgate was oversubscribed by 118 million cubic feet. The
system was forecast to carry 1.78 billion cubic feet today.
Estimated capacity was 1.67 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy Corp.’s  British Columbia
system, which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia
for delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled
2.81 billion cubic feet at 2:05 p.m.  Net Canadian gas exports to the U.S. averaged 5.57 billion
cubic feet per day in the seven days ended Sept. 20, according
to data collected by LCI Energy Insight, an El Paso, Texas
energy advisory firm.  Spot gas at the Alliance delivery point near Chicago rose
10.72 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $3.092 per million Btu on the
 Intercontinental Exchange . Alliance is an express line that can
carry 1.5 billion cubic feet a day from western Canada.  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, gas declined 0.95 cent, or 0.3 percent, to $2.8093 per
million Btu. At Malin,  Oregon , where Canadian gas is traded for
California markets, prices rose 7.19 cents, or 2.4 percent, to
$3.0326.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  