-- Canadian Dollar Weakens as Stocks Decline on Aversion to Risk
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-09-28T21:29:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/canada-dollar-weakens-against-u-s-counterpart-after-gdp-report.html
The Canadian dollar declined versus
its U.S. counterpart amid weak North American economic data and
falling stocks as concern Spain’s fiscal woes may intensify
 Europe ’s debt crisis fueled investment in low-risk assets.  Canada’s currency extended a second weekly decrease against
its U.S. peer after an economic-growth report suggested the
nation’s homebuilding may be slowing and U.S. business activity
unexpectedly contracted for the first time in three years.
Canadian government bonds rose, with the yield on the benchmark
10-year note declining to the lowest level in almost two months.
The so-called loonie pared monthly and quarterly gains as a
stress test showed Spain’s banks have a combined capital
shortfall of 59.3 billion euros ($76.3 billion).  “Spain is a top concern and causing jitters,” Blake Jespersen, managing director of foreign exchange in Toronto at
 Bank of Montreal (BMO) , said in a phone interview. “Equity markets
are also shaky today, which is hurting the risk tone. It’s why
you’re seeing profit-taking on riskier currencies.”  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell 0.3 percent to 98.37
cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after earlier gaining
0.2 percent. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0166.  Yields on 10-year government bonds fell three basis points,
or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.73 percent after touching 1.69
percent, the lowest since Aug. 3. The 2.75 security maturing in
June 2022 added 27 cents to 109.10.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.5 percent and lost
1.3 percent this week. Futures in crude-oil,  Canada ’s largest
export, gained 0.3 percent to $92.10 per barrel in New York
after falling as much as 0.5 percent.  Longs Gain  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will gain against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of  wagers  by hedge funds and
other large speculators on an advance in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was
105,346 on Sept. 25, compared with net longs of 111,881 a week
earlier. Futures are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set
price and date. The figures reflect holdings in currency-futures
contracts at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as of Tuesday.  Canadian output rose 0.2 percent to an annualized C$1.29
trillion ($1.31 trillion), Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa, faster than the 0.1 percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg
News economist survey with 23 responses. The agency today also
reduced its June growth estimate to 0.1 percent from 0.2
percent. Home construction declined 0.1 percent in July and the
output of real estate agents and brokers fell 1.5 percent.  ‘Risk-Off Mood’  “You’d expect people to think about interest rates, but I
think the market is really still ignoring domestic data,” Greg Moore, currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , said in a
phone interview. “There’s a risk-off mood moving the dollar
lower.”  Bank of Canada Governor Mark Carney on Sept. 5 held his key
lending rate at 1 percent, where it’s been since September 2010,
the longest unchanged period since the 1950s. Carney reiterated
that an increase “may become appropriate” as domestic spending
props up an economic recovery restrained by weak global demand
for exports.  Other Canadian reports this month have shown little
pressure for Carney to raise interest rates soon. Consumer
prices advanced 1.2 percent in August from a year ago, below the
central bank’s 2 percent target, and realtor reports have
signaled home price increases are ebbing in major cities where
Finance Minister Jim Flaherty had said there were signs of
overbuilding.  Spain, U.S.  Among Spain’s banks, the Bankia group, a nationalized
lender, had a 24.7 billion-euro capital deficit in the tests
conducted by management consultants Oliver Wyman that also
showed Banco Popular Espanol SA had a 3.22 billion-euro
shortfall. The stress tests of 14 lenders showed no capital
deficit for seven banks, including Banco Santander SA, Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA and Banco Sabadell SA.  Benchmark U.S. stock indexes extended declines as the
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its business
barometer fell to 49.7 this month from 53 in August. A reading
of 50 is the dividing line between growth and contraction. U.S.
household purchases rose 0.5 percent, matching the median
estimate of economists, while the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan final sentiment  index (SPX)  rose to 78.3 this month from 74.3
in August, trailing the median economist estimate of 79.  Canada’s dollar has strengthened 1.6 percent this year
against nine developed-nation counterparts tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The greenback has dropped
2.6 percent, with the yen tumbling 4 percent to lead decliners.
The New Zealand dollar’s 4.9 percent rise leads gainers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in New York at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  