-- Canada July Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-09-28T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/canada-july-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the July GDP report released by Statistics Canada.  Real gross domestic product grew 0.2% in July, after edging
up 0.1% in June. Goods production increased 0.2% in July, on the
strength of manufacturing and utilities. In contrast, mining and
oil and gas extraction as well as construction declined. The
output of service industries rose 0.2% in July, mainly as a
result of increases in retail and wholesale trade, the finance
and insurance sector, and accommodation and food services. The
public sector (education, health and public administration
combined) was essentially unchanged in July.  Manufacturing increases  Manufacturing grew 0.6% in July after declining 0.7% in
June. Durable goods production expanded 0.7% in July, mainly as
a result of increases in computer and electronics products, as
well as non-metallic mineral, primary metal and fabricated metal
products. However, manufacturers of machinery recorded declines.
Manufacturing of non-durable goods rose 0.6%, as increases in
petroleum and coal products, plastics and rubber products and
chemical products more than offset decreases in printing and
related support activities and paper manufacturing.  Utilities advance  Utilities grew 2.0%, the fourth consecutive monthly
increase, as both electricity production and natural gas
distribution advanced. Demand for electricity and natural gas
was up due to warmer than usual weather and increased industrial
activity.  Retail as well as wholesale trade up  Retail trade rose 0.6% in July after edging down 0.1% in
June. Notable increases were recorded at motor vehicles and
parts dealers, general merchandise stores, as well as health and
personal care stores. In contrast, retailing activity at food
and beverage stores was down.  Wholesale trade was up 0.2% in July, after declining 0.9%
in June. Wholesaling of petroleum products and personal and
households goods increased. Conversely, wholesaling of food,
beverage and tobacco as well as machinery, equipment and
supplies declined.  Mining and oil and gas extraction down  Mining and oil and gas extraction declined 0.3% in July.
Oil and gas extraction decreased 0.2% in July as a decline in
crude petroleum production outweighed an increase in natural gas
extraction. Support activities for mining and oil and gas
extraction (-2.9%) also fell, as drilling and rigging services
decreased.  Pipeline transportation of crude oil and natural gas
decreased, reflecting lower exports of these commodities.  Mining excluding oil and gas extraction grew 0.3% in July,
as increased output at coal and metal ore mines was partly
offset by decreased output at non-metallic mineral mines, in
particular potash.  Finance and insurance sector activity increases  The finance and insurance sector rose 0.5% in July, the
fourth consecutive monthly gain, on increased output of banks
and security brokerages.  Construction edges down  Construction edged down 0.1% in July, as declines in
residential building and non-residential building construction
outweighed the increase in engineering construction and repair
work.  The output of real estate agents and brokers declined 1.5%,
down for a third consecutive month, as activity in the home
resale market decreased in July.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry data
at basic prices are chained volume estimates with 2002 as the
reference year. This means that the data for each industry and
each aggregate are obtained from a chained volume index
multiplied by the industry’s value added in 2002. For the 1997
to 2008 period, the monthly data are benchmarked to annually
chained Fisher volume indexes of GDP obtained from the constant-
price input-output tables.  For the period starting with January 2009, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index to the
prior period. The fixed weights are 2008 industry prices.  This approach makes the monthly GDP by industry data more
comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data, chained
quarterly.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted. For more
information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and
identifying economic trends ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11 -
010-x/2010003/part-partie3-eng.htm).  Revisions  With this release of monthly GDP by industry, revisions
have been made back to January 2011. For more information about
monthly GDP by industry, see the National economic accounts
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/index-eng.htm ) module on our
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  