-- Canada Economy Posts Longest Expansion Streak in 2 Years
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-09-28T14:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/canada-economy-posts-longest-expansion-streak-in-2-years.html
Canada’s  gross domestic product 
rose for a fifth straight month in July, the longest expansion
streak in two years, on rebounds in manufacturing and retail
sales and increased utilities output.  Output rose 0.2 percent to an annualized C$1.29 trillion
($1.31 trillion), Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa, faster
than the 0.1 percent gain forecast in a Bloomberg News economist
survey with 23 responses. The agency today also reduced its June
growth estimate to 0.1 percent from 0.2 percent, and said that
output in July expanded 1.9 percent from 12 months earlier.  The report suggests growth for the third quarter may trail
the  Bank of Canada ’s 2 percent forecast and the economy may not
reach full output in the second half of next year as the central
bank predicts, according to  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  economist  Robert Kavcic . Governor  Mark Carney  is the only Group of Seven central
banker signaling he may tighten monetary policy, while his
colleagues ease.  “It doesn’t look like there’s any one area that screams
strength in the Canadian economy” Kavcic said by telephone from
Toronto. Growth this quarter will come in at a 1.6 percent
annualized pace and the central bank won’t raise  interest rates 
for at least a year, he said.  The Canadian dollar fell 0.2 percent to 98.28 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 9:47 a.m. in Toronto. Government bond prices
rose, pushing the  yield  on five-year benchmark securities down
three basis points to 1.29 percent, the lowest on a closing
basis since Aug. 2. Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said yesterday
the government would add sales of longer-term debt to take
advantage of low borrowing costs.  Manufacturing Rebound  Manufacturing expanded 0.6 percent in July following a 0.7
percent decline in June, and production from utilities such as
electricity plants advanced by 2 percent because of “warmer
than usual weather and increased industrial activity,”
Statistics Canada said. Retailing gained 0.6 percent led by
automobile dealerships, after a 0.1 percent June decline.  The Bank of Canada is relying on business investment and
 consumer spending  to lead growth in what it says is the slowest
export recovery since World War II. Canadian shipments abroad
are being restrained by a dollar that’s trading at about parity
with the U.S. currency, the Bank  said in July .  The central bank has kept its  key lending rate  at 1 percent
since September 2010, the longest pause since the 1950s.  The world’s 11th largest economy will have a growth rate of
around 2 percent for another year, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Little Pressure  Other Canadian reports this month have shown little
pressure for Carney to raise interest rates soon. Consumer
prices advanced 1.2 percent in August from a year ago, below the
central bank’s 2 percent target, and realtor reports have
signaled home price increases are ebbing in major cities where
Finance Minister Jim Flaherty had said there were signs of
overbuilding.  Today’s report suggested homebuilding may be slowing.
Construction declined 0.1 percent in July and the output of real
estate agents and brokers fell 1.5 percent.  Mining and oil and gas extraction fell 0.3 percent in July,
the third straight decline, led by a drop in crude oil
production,  Statistics Canada  said.  Still, the five consecutive months of growth is the longest
since a yearlong streak that ended in August, 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  