-- Cardenas Faces Defeat as Colombia Probably Will Spurn Rate Cut
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-09-28T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/cardenas-faces-defeat-as-colombia-probably-will-spurn-rate-cut.html
Colombian Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  will probably be outvoted at his first central bank
meeting as an unexpected surge in growth prompts policy makers
to ignore his calls for a third straight  interest rate  cut.  Banco de la Republica will hold its  benchmark interest rate 
at 4.75 percent today, according to 22 of 33 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. Eleven analysts expect a quarter-point reduction.
The central bank lowered borrowing costs at its July and August
meetings, citing a weakening global economy that has curbed
demand for  Colombia ’s exports.  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s latest round of stimulus means
Colombia must cut interest rates to prevent further gains by the
peso that would harm the Andean nation’s manufacturers, Cardenas
said this week. Cardenas, who was sworn in as finance minister
this month, inherited an economy that grew 4.9 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, beating the  forecasts  of all
29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “What need is there for more stimulus for an economy
growing close to 5 percent?” said Julian Marquez, an analyst at
Interbolsa SA brokerage in Bogota, in a telephone interview.
“It’s better to have the ammunition stored for when there’s a
big shock, rather than to have fired it when it wasn’t
necessary.”  In Colombia, the finance minister sits on the central
bank’s seven-member policy committee. Cardenas’ predecessor,
Juan Carlos Echeverry, said Aug. 22 that he was “generally not
on the winning side” at central bank meetings.  Faster Growth  Colombia grew faster than Brazil and  Mexico  in the second
quarter, while lagging  Chile  and  Peru . At the same time,
Colombia has the lowest inflation rate in  Latin America  after
Chile among the region’s nine biggest economies.  The pace of the economy’s expansion surprised some central
bank board members. In the first two weeks of September, co-
directors Juan Pablo Zarate and Carlos Gustavo Cano both
forecast second-quarter growth of 4.2 percent.  Cardenas’ colleagues on the bank’s board will also probably
view the third round of quantitative easing announced by the Fed
this month as supportive of global growth and the case for
keeping borrowing costs unchanged, Marquez said.  “QE3 should generate an improvement in world growth, so
then an improvement in demand and in commodities prices,”
Marquez said. “And this means the Colombian economy grows
more.”  Marquez predicts policy makers will leave interest rates
unchanged until at least year-end.  Inflation, Timing  In September, annual  inflation  will fall below 3 percent
for the first time in 17 months, according to a Bloomberg survey
of 12 analysts, whose median estimate forecasts a 2.97 percent
increase.  Central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said Aug. 27 that the
bank began cutting interest rates due to “the behavior of
internal demand, and especially due to the behavior of the
global economy and its effects on exports and sectors such as
industry.”  Uribe last month told lawmakers that inflation may end 2012
“slightly below” the mid-point of its target range. Colombia
targets annual consumer price rises of 3 percent, plus or minus
one percentage point.  The central bank has room to lower borrowing costs one more
time this year, and will time the cut for when the peso is
particularly strong, said Benito Berber, a Latin America
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.  “The key factor to determine the timing of the cut, I
think, is going to be the  exchange rate ,” Berber said. “If the
peso were stronger, the probabilities of a cut would increase
substantially.”  Currency, Yield Gap  The Colombian currency has appreciated 7.8 percent this
year, the fifth-best performance against the dollar among the
31-most traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg worldwide.  The Treasury began a program of dollar purchases in August
parallel to the central bank’s in an effort to curb the rally,
and continued to do so even after Banco de la Republica stepped
up its own intervention last month.  At its August meeting, the central bank committed to
increase its daily dollar purchases to an average of $28 million
per day through the end of September, from a minimum of $20
million per day previously. From Oct. 1, the bank’s purchases
will then revert to the $20 million per day minimum until at
least Nov. 2.  Policy makers today may announce an extension of the
program until the year-end to “give the market security” that
the central bank will remain active in the foreign exchange
market, Marquez said.  In a Sept. 20 interview, Cardenas said there are “good
reasons” for the central bank to continue to cut interest rates
to offset the global slowdown, and that rate cuts would help
curb the peso’s appreciation.  On Sept. 24, in an interview broadcast on the website of La
Republica newspaper, Cardenas said Colombia “cannot remain
neutral” in the face of QE3.  “This means that if there are very low rates in the U.S.,
we also need very low rates here so that there isn’t a very
large differential between the yields on Colombian debt and  U.S.
debt , so it doesn’t become a factor that attracts capital,” the
minister said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 