-- Carrefour Said to Weigh Turkish Combination With Migros
-- B y   A m b e r   C h o u d h u r y ,   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   J a c k i e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-09-28T15:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/carrefour-said-to-weigh-turkish-combination-with-migros.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, is considering a combination of its Turkish
business with  Migros Ticaret AS (MGROS) , a rival supermarket chain owned
by private equity firm BC Partners Ltd., three people with
knowledge of the situation said.  The talks are in very early stages and the combination is
one of several options Carrefour is exploring for its Turkish
operations, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the discussions are confidential. Carrefour has not made
a decision about its strategy in  Turkey , a person said.  The French retailer is reviewing its businesses in
countries where it can’t reach a leadership position, as new
Chief Executive Officer Georges Plassat seeks to generate cash
and reduce debt after four years of declining operating income.  A combination between Carrefour and Sabanci’s joint venture
and Migros would create the largest retailer in Turkey.
Carrefour’s Turkish unit has a market capitalization of 1.9
billion Turkish lira ($1 billion), while Migros has a market
capitalization of 3.3 billion lira.  Carrefour operates its Turkish division through  CarrefourSa
Carrefour Sabanci Ticaret Merkezi AS (CARFA) , which owns 58 percent of a
joint venture with  Haci Omer Sabanci Holding AS. (SAHOL)   A spokeswoman for BC declined to comment. Officials at
Sabanci were not available for comment. A spokesman for
Carrefour declined to comment immediately.  Sabanci may attempt to buy Carrefour out of its Turkish
business,  Erste Bank AG (EBS)  analysts wrote in a note this month. The
Turkish company hired Rothschild to review its strategic options
for the venture and expects to complete a deal this year, CEO
Zafer Kurtul said in February.  Right of Refusal  Both Carrefour and Sabanci have the right of first refusal
if the other seeks to sell its part of the business, one person
with knowledge of the situation said.  BC Partners , a London-based private equity firm, bought a
controlling stake in Migros, based in Istanbul, in 2008, in a
transaction valuing Migros at 2 billion euros including debt,
according to the firm’s website.  Typically, private equity firms such as BC hold assets for
three to five years before selling them.  Carrefour, based in the Paris suburb of Boulogne-
Billancourt, announced plans in August to exit  Singapore  by the
end of the year and paid 220 million euros ($235 million) to
leave Greece. It has also put Poland and Indonesia under review
for possible sales.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  