-- CFTC Rule Restraining Speculation Rejected by U.S. Judge
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-09-28T20:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/cftc-rule-restraining-speculation-rejected-by-u-s-judge.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission rule restraining speculation was rejected by a
federal judge, handing a victory to two Wall Street groups that
challenged the constraints.  U.S. District Judge Robert Wilkins in  Washington  today
ruled that the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act is unclear as to whether the
agency was ordered by Congress to cap the number of contracts a
trader can have in oil, natural gas and other commodities
without first assessing whether the rule was necessary and
appropriate.  “Although the court does not foreclose the possibility
that the CFTC could, in the exercise of its discretion,
determine that it should impose position limits without a
finding of necessity and appropriateness, it is not plain and
clear that the statute requires this result,” the judge said in
his 43-page ruling.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc. 
and the  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association 
sued the commission, arguing that the CFTC never studied whether
the regulation was “necessary and appropriate” or quantified
the costs tied to implementing the rule. The groups represent
banks and asset managers including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   ‘Tough News’  The position limits were set to begin taking effect Oct.
12.  The associations, in one of the financial industry’s
highest-profile efforts to weaken Dodd-Frank, filed suit in two
federal courts in Washington in December to challenge the rule.  “I believe it is critically important that these position
limits be established as Congress required,” CFTC Chairman
Gary Gensler said in an e-mailed statement. “I am disappointed
by today’s ruling, and we are considering ways to proceed.”  The commission estimated that the limits would affect 85
energy trading firms, 12 metals traders and 84 traders of
certain agricultural contracts.  “This is obviously tough news for those of us who believe
there’s too much speculative concentration in commodity futures
and swap markets,”  Bart Chilton , one of three Democrats on the
CFTC, said in an e-mail statement. “There’s no question that
huge individual trader positions have the potential to influence
prices in a way that hurts legitimate hedgers and ultimately
consumers.”  Soybeans, Oats  The limits applied to 28 physical commodity futures and
their financially equivalent swaps including contracts for corn,
wheat, soybeans, oats, cotton, oil, heating oil, gasoline,
cocoa, milk, sugar, silver, palladium and platinum.  The rule called for traders to aggregate their positions, a
change that may have affected large firms with multiple
strategies. It also would have tightened an exemption allowing
so-called bona fide hedgers to exceed the caps.  The groups sought to temporarily block the rule from taking
effect while the judge considered its legality.  Preparing to comply with the rule “would impose immediate,
irreversible costs on JPMorgan that will number in the millions
of dollars,” Michael Camacho, JPMorgan’s head of global sales
and structuring, said in a court filing seeking an injunction.  Wilkins, however, vacated the rule and sent it back to the
commission.  The rule is among the most controversial provisions of
Dodd-Frank, and spurred more than 13,000 public comments to the
CFTC from supporters including  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and
opponents such as Barclays. The agency voted 3-2 at an Oct. 18
meeting to approve the final regulation, with Jill E. Sommers
and  Scott O’Malia , both Republicans, voting in opposition.  The case is International Swaps and Derivatives Association
v. U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 11-02146, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  