-- LCH Said to Seek Exemption From U.S. Rule for Swap-Clearing Time
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-09-28T14:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/lch-said-to-seek-exemption-from-u-s-rule-for-swap-clearing-time.html
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. asked to be
exempted from a rule taking effect next week requiring the
largest clearer of  interest-rate swaps  between banks and their
customers to confirm trades in less than 60 seconds.  LCH.Clearnet is seeking the relief as it switches from a
system in which trades are processed every 15 minutes, according
to two people familiar with the situation who declined to be
identified because the matter is private. Clearinghouses must
meet the limit by Oct. 1, Ananda Radhakrishnan, director of the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s division of clearing and
risk, told executives at the largest firms in an Aug. 31 e-mail.  While the Dodd-Frank Act overhauling rules governing
financial markets was passed into law more than two years ago
and the trade confirmation rules were completed in March,
regulators are still working out details. The  final rule  for
swaps said only that transactions had to be completed as soon as
technologically possible, leaving regulators confused and market
participants struggling to comply.  “We’re in the dark about where the one-minute standard
came from,” CFTC Commissioner  Scott O’Malia  said in a telephone
interview. While he said he supports confirming cleared trades
as quickly as possible, it’s important that clearinghouses have
the time to assess the risk in a trade. “I don’t even know what
the standard is because it hasn’t been shared with us,” he
said.  Juliana Wheeler, a spokeswoman for LCH.Clearnet, which has
processed more than $4 trillion of rate swaps between banks and
clients, didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment on the
clearing times.  $648 Trillion  Two rules take effect next week affecting the trades in the
$648 trillion swaps market. In addition to the limit on clearing
times, banks will have two minutes initially to approve trades
with their customers. The world’s largest banks won’t be
required to clear their transactions until the first quarter.  Starting Oct. 1, banks and brokerages that are members of
clearinghouses will have two minutes to accept or reject trades
with their customers. Ninety days after separate rules mandating
clearing for certain types of transactions are published in the
Federal Register, that limit will be lowered to one minute,
Radhakrishnan wrote in an e-mail on Sept. 21.  “As far as I’m concerned the rule says as soon as
technologically practicable, and that doesn’t mean 120
seconds,” Jill E. Sommers, a CFTC commissioner, said in a
telephone interview. “I didn’t vote for a rule that says 120
seconds.”  Sufficient Margin  LCH.Clearnet Chief Executive Officer Ian Axe wrote to the
CFTC in an Oct. 11, 2011,  letter  that the time limits for
accepting trades should be conditioned on whether the customer
placing the order has sufficient margin deposited at the same
time the transaction is submitted.  The company, based in  London , is working to keep its system
of accepting trades that have margin attached in less than a
minute, a person familiar with the matter said. The company has
alternatives to continue accepting swaps for clearing next week,
said the person, who declined to be more specific.  CME Group Inc. (CME) , which had cleared $746 billion of rate
swaps as of Sept. 25, has systems in place to let their clearing
member firms automate the trade confirmation process, said  Kim
Taylor , president of the company’s clearinghouse.  “We accept trades in sub-second time,” Taylor said in an
e-mail. “Though we have heard other clearing houses take
upwards of 15 minutes to accept trades, it has always been our
goal to provide the market with immediate clearing certainty.”
CME Group will be able to accept or reject trades in under a
second come Oct. 1, said Mark Cox, an  executive director  in the
company’s clearinghouse unit.  Intercontinental Exchange Inc., owner of the world’s
largest credit-default swap clearinghouse, doesn’t disclose its
average time to accept or reject trades, said Brookly
McLaughlin, a spokeswoman. She said the company will be able to
meet the Oct. 1 requirement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  