-- Chalco Ends Bid to Buy Stake in Winsway for $308 Million
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-09-28T19:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/chalco-ends-bid-to-buy-stake-in-winsway-for-308-million.html
Aluminum Corp. of  China  Ltd.
dropped plans to buy a 30 percent stake in Mongolian coal
exporter  Winsway Coking Coal Holding Ltd. (1733)  for HK$2.39 billion
($308 million), its second failed acquisition this month.  The agreement was terminated because it won’t be able to
get approval from governments and regulators by a Sept. 30
deadline, the aluminum producer known as Chalco said in a
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday. Mongolia
passed a law this year restricting foreign state-owned companies
from controlling key assets.  Yesterday’s decision is the second time this month Beijing-
based Chalco has abandoned a bid for a Mongolian coal miner
because it wasn’t able to get regulatory approvals. The company
said on Sept. 3 it terminated a C$925 million ($941 million)
offer for a stake in  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ)   Foreign companies seeking more than 49 percent of strategic
assets in  Mongolia  need approval from Parliament, according to a
statement on the government’s website in May. The restriction
means Mongolia joins Indonesia and Argentina in seeking to
control ownership of resource assets to secure its economic
future.  Chalco, China’s largest aluminum producer, proposed in
April to become Winsway’s biggest shareholder by buying about
1.1 billion shares at HK$2.12 apiece from the company’s
chairman. Winsway said in a separate Hong Kong stock exchange
filing yesterday that the share sale was abandoned on Sept. 28
because the deal wouldn’t get government approvals on time.  Coal Prices  Chalco was seeking coal and iron-ore assets after  profit 
from its mining unit fell 67 percent last year on higher raw
material and power costs.  Metallurgical-coal prices have tumbled this year as
manufacturing in China, the world’s biggest steelmaker,
contracted at the fastest pace since March 2009 and mines in
 Australia  resumed output after flooding halted operations last
year.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest coking coal
exporter, settled the fourth-quarter benchmark contract for the
fuel at $170 a metric ton, 40 percent less than a year earlier,
Doyle Trading Consultants LLC said on Sept. 12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  