-- China’s Stocks Rise, Capping Biggest Quarterly Loss This Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-28T07:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/china-s-stock-futures-drop-on-market-support-disappointment.html
Chinese stocks  rose, narrowing the
benchmark index’s steepest quarterly loss this year, as a cash
shortage in the banking system eased before next week’s holiday.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 1.5 percent to
2,086.17 at the close, capping a 2.9 percent gain for the week.
The Shanghai index jumped 2.6 percent yesterday, the most in
three weeks, on the prospect regulators would announce measures
to spur equities including halting initial public offerings.
After the market closed, the China Securities Regulatory
Commission issued information-security rules. China’s money-
market rate headed for the biggest weekly drop in almost a year.  “The market is a bit disappointed that there was no
market-boosting measures from regulators,” said Wu Kan, fund
manager at Dazhong Insurance Co. in Shanghai, which oversees
$285 million. “But such expectations are still quite high as
the market is at a very low level and a further drop can trigger
bailouts. The market could fluctuate around current levels.”  The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  gained 1.8 percent to 2,293.11 today, led
by consumer discretionary and material stocks.  JiuGuiJiu Co. (000799) 
climbed 3.5 percent, pacing gains among liquor makers, after
saying profit may jump.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104) , China’s largest
carmaker, advanced the most in four months after Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. said falling industry inventories point to
improving conditions. CSR Corp., the biggest train maker, gained
5.7 percent after the China Securities Journal said the railway
ministry may restart tenders for train cars.  About 7.9 billion shares changed hands on the Shanghai
gauge today, 2.6 percent higher than the daily average this
year. The nation’s markets will be shut all of next week for the
National Day and mid-autumn holidays. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  added 0.8 percent today. The  Bloomberg China-
US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, rose 2.2 percent in New York yesterday.  IPO Speculation  China’s stocks surged in the afternoon yesterday after the
Shanghai Securities News, operated by the Xinhua News Agency,
said there was speculation the CSRC would announce 10 measures
to boost equities while Zheshang Securities Co. said there was
market talk the regulator might suspend IPOs.  The Shanghai Composite lost 6.3 percent this quarter, the
most since the three months ended December, on concern a
slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy is deepening. The
gauge is valued at 9.7 times estimated earnings, compared with
the average of 17.9 since Bloomberg began compiling the  weekly
data  in 2006.  Easing Liquidity  China’s stocks will still rise even after prices fell to
the lowest level since 2009 this week and analysts forecast a
prolonged slump, Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management, said at a press conference in Singapore today. The
market is the most attractive among the four BRIC nations, he
said, referring to Brazil, Russia, India and China.  The CSRC is studying lowering the tax burden for investing
in securities, the China Securities Journal reported today,
citing an unidentified official from the commission. The
commission is also studying improving the pegging between listed
companies’ dividends and refinancing, it said.  So far this year, the CSRC has expedited approvals of
foreign investors, cut stock-trading fees by 25 percent and
allowed individual investors to advise on pricing IPO shares as
part of efforts to boost the market.  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, slid 163 basis points this week to 2.80
percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted average rate
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. That’s the
biggest decline since the five-day period ended Oct. 15.  Yuan Gains  The People’s Bank of China injected a net 365 billion  yuan 
($58 billion) via reverse-repurchase operations and bill
redemptions this week, the most since Bloomberg started
compiling the data in 2008.  The yuan climbed to its strongest level since 1993 on
speculation China will step up efforts to arrest a slowdown in
the world’s second-largest economy. The People’s Bank of China
strengthened the reference rate by 0.08 percent today, the most
since Aug. 22, fixing it at 6.3410 per dollar.  China is scheduled to release its manufacturing purchasing
managers index for this month on Oct. 1, with economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicting a reading of 50, the level
that divides contraction from expansion. It was at 49.2 in
August. A similar private index from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics is due for release tomorrow.  The data may increase pressure on Premier Wen Jiabao to try
to boost growth ahead of the transfer of power to a new
Communist Party leadership that begins later this year.  Consumer Stocks  JiuGuiJiu jumped 3.5 percent to 54.70 yuan after the liquor
maker said net income may jump between 400 percent and 447
percent in the first nine months this year. The stock has more
than doubled this year.  Wuliangye Yibin Co. (000858) , China’s second-biggest maker of white
liquor by market value, added 1.8 percent to 33.90 yuan. Luzhou
Laojiao Co., a sprits producer in southwest province of Sichuan,
rose 2.7 percent to 38.50 yuan.  SAIC Motor gained 4.7 percent to 13.54 yuan, its biggest
gain since May 28.  FAW Car Co. (000800) , which makes passenger cars in
China with Volkswagen AG, increased 3.7 percent to 6.82 yuan.
Jiangling Motors Corp., a partner of Ford Motor Co. rose 3.6
percent to 14.39 yuan.  Property Concern  Data from the China Automobile Dealers Association show
August inventory levels fell to 1.65 months from 1.7 months in
July, Jeff Chung, an analyst at Daiwa Securities wrote in a
report dated yesterday. Inventory declines will reduce the
downside risk and boost the second-half earnings outlook for
automakers and dealers, according to the report.  CSR added 5.7 percent to 4.11 yuan.  China CNR Corp. (601766) , the
nation’s second-biggest train maker, gained 3.4 percent to 3.64
yuan. The railway ministry may tender for 15,000 train cars for
transporting goods and 1,200 carriages, the China Securities
Journal reported, without saying where it got the information.  The risk of a rebound in property prices may help explain
why the government is holding back from easing monetary policy
to counter a deepening economic slowdown, according to an
academic adviser to the central bank.  That concern is “a big restraint,” Chen Yulu, president
of Beijing’s Renmin University, said in Beijing yesterday.
Further cuts in reserve requirements or interest rates depend on
how much external demand worsens, Chen said.  The government has refrained from easing since interest-
rate cuts in June and July and a reduction in banks’ reserve
requirements in May.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  