-- China Communists Set Nov. 8 Date for Congress Amid Upheaval
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-28T11:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/china-communists-set-nov-8-date-for-congress-amid-upheaval-1-.html
China ’s Communist Party will hold
its 18th congress starting Nov. 8 as it looks to complete a
once-a-decade leadership transition that’s been roiled by the
downfall of former Politburo member Bo Xilai.  “The congress will thoroughly examine the current
international and domestic situation and take into account of
the new requirements for the country’s development and new
expectations from the people,” the official Xinhua News Agency
said today.  The congress will see more than 2,000 delegates from the
82-million member ruling party gather in Beijing to anoint new
leaders whose positions have already been worked out in years of
jockeying by the country’s power factions. Vice President  Xi
Jinping  is forecast to succeed President  Hu Jintao  as party
general secretary, and would take over as China’s president
early next year.  Party leaders had been intent on orchestrating a handover
like the one that saw Hu take the reins in 2002, the first
smooth transfer of power since  Mao Zedong  founded the People’s
Republic of China in 1949. That has been undermined by the
decision to sideline Bo, who was officially expelled from the
party today, and the new leadership will take over the reins as
the economy slows and following the worst quarterly loss for
Shanghai stocks this year.  The new leaders will need to address a widening wealth gap,
corruption and pollution that have fueled public distrust and
social unrest. Earlier this month, Xinhua reported that some
Chinese officials were “prone to slip into a credibility crisis
in the  Internet era ,” and said that winning public support
“seriously matters.”  Slowing Economy  Leaders must grapple with a slowing economy that will
struggle to reach its 7.5 percent expansion target this year,
according to data from sectors including exports and production.
Hu, Premier  Wen Jiabao  and other outgoing leaders took power in
2003 with growth exceeding 9 percent.  The Shanghai Composite Index lost 6.3 percent this quarter,
the most since the three months ended December, on concern a
slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy is deepening. The
gauge is  valued  at 9.7 times estimated earnings, compared with
the average of 17.9 since Bloomberg began compiling the weekly
data in 2006. The index has dropped 13 percent in the past year.  Opponents of Change  The next generation of leaders must overcome opponents of
change, including state-owned companies and banks that are
“powerful, resourceful and resolute in protecting their
interests,” according to a February report by the  World Bank 
and the Development Research Center of China’s State Council.  The months preceding the congress have been dominated by
the scandal surrounding Bo and efforts by the party leadership
to contain the fallout from it. Bo’s wife, Gu Kailai was
convicted of murder and sentenced to death with a two-year
reprieve in the poisoning of a British businessman, Neil Heywood.  Bo, once seen as a candidate for the ruling Politburo
Standing Committee, was removed as Chongqing party secretary in
March as the allegations surrounding Gu emerged. In April, Bo
was suspended from the Politburo, and his former police chief
was convicted earlier this month of helping cover up the murder.  That turmoil, coupled with Xi’s two-week disappearance,
have drawn attention to the opaque succession process in the
world’s most populous country and second-biggest economy.  Japan Tensions  China has also seen tensions flare with  Japan  over islands
claimed by both sides in recent weeks. Japan’s Sept. 11 decision
to buy the islands spurred street protests and attacks on
Japanese businesses, prompting speculation that leaders might be
trying to whip up nationalist sentiment ahead of the handover.  “The looming transition has probably increased Chinese
willingness to respond to what it viewed as Japan’s challenge
with greater resolve,” Taylor Fravel, a political science
professor specializing in China at the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology , said in an e-mail interview.  Before the congress convenes, the smaller Communist Party
Central Committee is set to meet in Beijing. The central
committee, with more than 300 full members and alternates, can
formally remove people from the Politburo, such as in the case
of Bo.  The congress will culminate with the naming of the next
Politburo Standing Committee. The group, now with nine men,
exercises supreme authority in China.  Seven People  The party indicated that Xi would take the top spot when he
was listed at the 17th party congress in 2007 as the sixth most
senior member of the Politburo Standing Committee, the highest
among the younger generation of party leaders. Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , number seven in the present hierarchy, is forecast to
succeed Wen as premier.  The next standing committee will probably be reduced to
seven people at the congress and may include Xi, Li, Vice
Premier  Wang Qishan , Shanghai Party Secretary Yu Zhengsheng,
Vice Premier Zhang Dejiang, Guangdong Party Secretary Wang Yang
and party organization head  Li Yuanchao , a Bloomberg News survey
of 26 China political analysts published Sept. 14 found.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  