-- Clinton Revokes Iranian Group's Terrorist Designation
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-09-28T22:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/clinton-revokes-iranian-group-s-terrorist-designation.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
today removed the Iranian dissident group Mujahedin-e-Khalq,
known as the MEK, from the U.S. terrorist blacklist, ending a
years-long lobbying campaign by the group that paid former U.S.
officials as advocates.  Effective today, the MEK is no longer designated a Foreign
Terrorist Organization. As a result, its property and financial
interests in the U.S. will no longer be blocked, and U.S.
citizens won’t be barred from supporting or engaging in
transactions with the group.  “The department does not overlook or forget the MEK’s past
acts of terrorism, including its involvement in the killing of
U.S. citizens in  Iran  in the 1970s and an attack on U.S. soil in
1992,” according to a State Department statement. “The
department also has serious concerns about the MEK as an
organization, particularly with regard to allegations of abuse
committed against its own members.”  Clinton’s decision took into account the MEK’s public
renunciation of violence, the absence of confirmed acts of
terrorism for more than a decade, and the group’s cooperation
with the peaceful closing in Iraq of its former paramilitary
base, State Department officials said. Her decision was prompted
by a federal court order, in a case brought by the MEK,
requiring her to determine by Oct. 1 whether the group should
remain on the blacklist.  The MEK’s supporters in  Washington  included members of
Congress, former heads of the FBI and the CIA, and former U.S.
cabinet secretaries and politicians from both parties. Many have
advocated for the MEK as a viable opposition to the mullahs
running the Islamic Revolutionary regime in Iran, and some have
acknowledged accepting speaking fees of thousands or tens of
thousands of dollars.  Awkward Position  One of the State Department officials, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because of the sensitive topic, said the
decision to revoke the group’s terrorist label was made on the
merits, not to appease any group of advocates.  The decision puts the U.S. government in the awkward
position of appearing to forgive a group that it acknowledges
was involved in terrorist acts, including against Americans.
Critics have said the Obama administration is adopting a double
standard and overlooking allegations of continued terrorist acts
against Iran, a state that the U.S. accuses of sponsoring
terrorism itself.  Iran’s Criticism  Iran’s government alleges the MEK has cooperated with the
Israeli intelligence agency  Mossad  in the assassination of
Iranian nuclear scientists. Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman
Ramin Mehman-Parast called delisting the group an act of
“violating international obligations and weakening global
efforts” against terrorism, the state-run Fars news agency
reported Sept. 25. The MEK has denied involvement in the
assassinations.  Republican Representative Dana Rohrabacher of  California 
has praised the MEK for the alleged involvement in
assassinations of scientists and has said the U.S. should
support the group as a legitimate alternative to the current
Iranian regime. The State Department officials today rejected
that argument.  The Obama administration doesn’t see the MEK as a viable
opposition group or as a democratic opposition movement, one
department official said. There is no evidence that the MEK
could promote democratic principles and values that the U.S.
supports, the official said, referring to what he called ample
documentation of the group’s abuse of its own members.  Resisting Shah  The MEK was formed in 1965 to resist the Shah of Iran.
After the Shah’s fall in 1979, the group broke with the
revolutionary Islamic government and began attacking the regime
from neighboring  Iraq . The U.S. put the organization on its
terrorism list in 1997 for alleged involvement in the killing of
six Americans in Iran in the 1970s. The MEK also had made a
failed attempt to kidnap the U.S. ambassador to Iran in 1971.  The organization says it disarmed in 2003, following the
U.S. invasion of Iraq, and has lobbied the U.S. government since
then to be removed from the list of terror organizations.  Officials today said Clinton’s decision was also guided by
the group’s cooperation in relocating approximately 3,000
followers from Camp Ashraf in Iraq, which had served as a base
for paramilitary strikes into Iran with support from then-Iraqi
leader  Saddam Hussein .  A second State Department official said the removal of the
group from U.S. terror lists may help the United Nations High
Commission for Refugees find nations willing to accept MEK
members for resettlement. Almost all the group’s members have
relocated from Camp Ashraf to Camp Liberty, a former U.S. base
near the Baghdad airport, as an interim step to permanent
relocation.  The European Union lifted its terrorist designation of MEK
in 2008, five years after MEK says it disarmed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in  New York  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  