-- Clinton Unveils New U.S. Aid in Support of a `Free Syria'
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-09-28T23:53:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/clinton-unveils-new-u-s-aid-in-support-of-a-free-syria-.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  unveiled additional aid for Syrian refugees and the
political opposition that controls areas she called “free
Syria,” even as the opposition continued to push for U.S.
military backing.  Speaking yesterday at a meeting in  New York , Clinton said
the U.S. will provide a total $45 million in new aid. She also
welcomed the decision by  Iraq  to inspect Iranian aircraft
seeking to fly to Syria through its airspace. The U.S. has
complained that Iraq was allowing overflights by planes that may
be carrying military supplies to the Syrian regime.  The meeting of officials from about two dozen countries
that have most actively supported the opposition, as well as
Syrian opposition members, underscored the difficulty the
international community has had in confronting the regime lead
by Bashar al-Assad that responded with military force to what
began as a peaceful democracy protests.  “We must stand with those Syrians who believe in a
different vision,” Clinton said as the meeting opened. “There
will be difficult days ahead, but our unity and resolve must not
waver as we continue to do what we can to end the violence and
bloodshed, and bring about a better day for the Syrian people.”  International and regional efforts have failed to put an
end to the bloodshed in  Syria , where at least 28,000 people have
been killed in the uprising, according to activist groups.
Syrian government forces killed 154 people across the country
yesterday, the Syrian Network for Human Rights said in an e-
mailed statement.  Opposition Groups  The meeting included a number of opposition groups from
Syria, including the Syrian Revolution General Commission, the
Syrian National Council and the Homs Revolutionary Council. For
their security, the opposition members didn’t enter the room
until press and cameras there to record Clinton’s opening
statement had left.  The two dozen countries and groups attending included the
Arab League, Iraq,  Egypt , the UN, the U.K. and Gulf nations,
including  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates  and Qatar,
which has called most aggressively for arming Syrian rebels.  Clinton said that the often fractious opposition groups
were making progress toward greater unity and that more work
needed to be done to build consensus around a political
transition plan. Opposition groups will meet again in Qatar to
work on unity and cohesion, Clinton said.  The U.S. opposes military intervention, even as the Assad
regime has escalated the use of its airpower against opposition
forces and civilians.  France  has been in talks with Qatar,
Jordan and  Turkey  about establishing protected civilian zones in
Syria, French President  Francois Hollande  said at a press
conference in New York on Sept. 25 after his General Assembly
address.  Air Assault  “It’s very difficult to establish permanent command
centers or stability if your supposed safe zones are under
regular assault from the air,” Amr al-Azm, a history professor
at Shawnee State University in Portsmouth,  Ohio , who is involved
in Syrian opposition efforts, said in a telephone interview.  “If you could neutralize the regime’s ability to use the
aircraft to shell and attack positions, particularly in the
liberated zone, that would make a big difference to how the
battle will unfold,” said al-Azm, who acts as a spokesman for
the Civil Administration Council, a political opposition group
of more than 25,000 people on the ground in Syria.  The new U.S. funding brings total humanitarian aid for
Syria to more than $130 million. Yesterday’s announcement
includes $30 million for food, water, blankets and critical
medicines.  ‘Woefully Underfunded’  The number of Syrian refugees in neighboring countries
could more than double to 700,000 by the end of this year, the
 United Nations  refugee agency said on Sept 27. The UN called on
donors for $295 million in extra funding Sept. 27 and yesterday
Clinton appealed to international donors to meet this need.  “The UN appeal remains woefully underfunded,” Clinton
said. “All of us in the international community have to step
up, and I repeat our urgent call for all parties to ensure that
humanitarian aid reaches those in need, to uphold international
law and particularly to protect medical facilities and
personnel.”  Clinton referred indirectly to Russia and  China , which have
protected Assad from censure at the United Nations, saying that
attempts to move forward in the  Security Council  have been
“blocked repeatedly.” Clinton met on Sept. 25 with Lakhdar Brahimi, the Joint Special Envoy for the  Arab League  and the UN,
to discuss “alternative strategies,” she said.  ‘Liberated’ Areas  The U.S. will continue to target those who support the
Syrian regime, either financially or by providing communications
equipment, Clinton said. Recent measures targeted leaders of
Hezbollah, considered a terrorist group by the U.S., and an arms
company in Belarus that the U.S. said is supplying fuses for
aerial bombs used against civilians.  Al-Azm said that if the U.S. and its allies would target
Syria’s air force instead of the companies that supply them, it
would hasten the regime’s fall.  The Civil Administration Council, al-Azm’s organization, is
an umbrella group for Local Coordinating Committees, people who
are trying to man fire stations, remove rubble after regime
bombing campaigns and run their local municipalities in
“liberated” areas where the central government no longer
functions.  Clinton announced another $15 million for political
opposition groups like the Civil Administration Council that
will be used to provide them with satellite-linked computers,
telephones, cameras and training “to help them strengthen their
networks, avoid regime persecution and better document  human
rights  abuses,” Clinton said.  Regime Lifeline  One State Department official, who wasn’t authorized to
speak on the record, said that in cities like Idlib, Damascus,
Homs, Aleppo and elsewhere, local councils are being set up to
run their cities in places where he said the Syrian army hasn’t
been present for months.  Many activists have appealed to the U.S. and other
countries for training in how to deliver services, the official
said. The new funds will support some of this training, which
the U.S. supports as it will prepare the opposition for the day
Assad is gone.  In her remarks at the meeting, Clinton said that the regime
still has powerful regional support.  “The regime’s most important lifeline is  Iran ,” she said,
referring to comments by a senior Iranian official last week
which acknowledged that members of the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps are operating inside Syria in support of Assad’s
forces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in New York at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  