-- 7 Days Leads Best Monthly Gain Since February: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-09-28T21:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/cnooc-led-slump-pares-best-month-since-february-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in New York
completed the biggest monthly gain since February, on prospects
growth in the world’s second-largest economy will stabilize
after a six-quarter slowdown.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. declined 0.2 percent to 92.03
yesterday for a monthly rise of 4.6 percent and a 0.9 percent
gain this quarter.  7 Days Group Holdings Ltd. (SVN)  posted the biggest
surge since January after private investors proposed to buy the
hotel chain for a premium.  New Oriental Education & Technology
Group (EDU)  Inc. rallied while  Elong Inc. (LONG)  climbed the most since May
2011 as it deepened its partnership with  Expedia Inc. (EXPE)   China’s government is scheduled to release a purchasing
managers’ index for this month on Oct. 1, with 21 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predicting a reading of 50.1, above
the 50 level that divides contraction from expansion. It was at
49.2 in August. Money-market rate completed the biggest weekly
drop in 11 months after the central bank added a record amount
of funds to the financial system to help meet a surge in cash
demand before the weeklong National Day holiday starting Oct. 1.  “There’s enough going on for growth to level out, and the
equity markets will like that,” Geoffrey Dennis, global
 emerging-markets  strategist at Citigroup Inc., said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York yesterday.
“If we get any convincing evidence that the slowdown in growth
in China is stabilizing between 7.5 percent and 8, investors
will really come back to Chinese equities and emerging markets
generally.”  7 Days Surges  The government this month approved a spate of road and
subway projects to help boost investment, while new local-
currency lending in August exceeded estimates and was the
highest on record for that month. A leading  index (HSCEI)  for  China’s
economy  registered the biggest increase in seven months in
August, raising expectations for a moderate rebound in growth,
the Conference Board, a New York-based research group said Sept.
25.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 0.4 percent to $34.6
yesterday, paring a 4.6 percent jump in September. The  Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  lost 0.4 percent to 1,440.67, trimming an
increase this month to 2.4 percent.  7 Days, the second-largest budget hotel operator in China,
surged 26 percent last week in New York to $11.62, ending the
month with a 24 percent gain.  The ADRs reached a four-month high of $11.95 on Sept. 26
after the Guangzhou-based company said a consortium led by the
 Carlyle Group LP (CG) ,  Sequoia Capital  and existing shareholders
including the company’s co-chairmen made a “non-binding”
proposal to buy the company for $12.7 per ADR.  Expedia Partnership  Elong, the second-biggest online travel company in China,
surged 18 percent in September to $17.71, the steepest rally
since May 2011. Its ADRs retreated 2.7 percent yesterday.  The Beijing-based company signed an agreement with Expedia,
its biggest shareholder, to expand their partnership and
increase global hotel booking options. Under the agreement,
Bellevue, Washington-based Expedia will make an initial payment
of $7 million and a subsequent one to ELong in November 2015
based on a revenue-sharing arrangement between the parties, the
companies said in a joint statement dated Sept. 27.  New Oriental, the Beijing-based Chinese education service
provider, surged 7.2 percent to $16.67 yesterday in  New York ,
extending its monthly rally to 20 percent.  Cooperation  The company said in July that the Securities and Exchange
Commission is investigating “whether there is a sufficient
basis for the consolidation of Beijing New Oriental Education &
Technology (Group) Co., a variable interest entity of the
Company, and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, into the Company’s
consolidated financial statements.”  New Oriental “has been cooperating with the SEC closely,
and the investigation appears to be entering the Q&A session,”
Ella Ji at Oppenheimer wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday. A
favorable resolution to the SEC investigation could boost New
Oriental shares as much as 61 percent from yesterday’s closing
price, she said.  The Chinese  yuan  strengthened 0.28 percent to 6.2849 per
dollar in Shanghai yesterday, after climbing to 6.2835, the
strongest level since China unified official and market exchange
rates at the end of 1993.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks traded in mainland
China climbed 1.5 percent to 2,086.17, capping a 2.9 percent
gain for the week and 1.9 percent increase for the month. The
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese companies in  Hong
Kong  added 0.6 percent to 9,831.62, to finish the month up 5.9
percent, the biggest rally since January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  