-- Colombian Copycat Banks Sell 13 Years of Bonds in Months
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2012-09-28T21:33:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/colombian-copycat-banks-sell-13-years-of-bonds-in-months.html
Colombian banks are selling record
amounts of foreign bonds this quarter, pushing this year’s tally
above the total of the previous 13 years, as they take advantage
of record-low U.S. rates to finance more lending.  Billionaire  Luis Carlos Sarmiento  Angulo’s  Grupo Aval
Acciones y Valores (AVAL)  SA and  Bancolombia SA (BCOLO)  led sales of $2.45
billion of bonds since July 1, compared with $500 million the
previous quarter and no sales in the same period of 2011.
Lenders sold $3.55 billion this year, topping the $3.14 billion
issued from 1999 to 2011 and more than double the offerings from
banks in  Mexico .  The sales are helping fund a 17 percent lending surge as
 Colombia ’s economy expands at the second-fastest pace among
Latin America’s biggest countries, behind Peru. Bancolombia, the
country’s biggest bank, issued $1.2 billion of 10-year bonds on
Sept. 4 to yield 5.2 percent, down from 6.01 percent in a sale
of similar-maturity notes in 2011. Each successful offering
helped spur another bank to emulate the sale, said Shamaila Khan, an emerging-market  money manager  at Alliance Bernstein LP.  “Successful sales encourage other issuers with a similar
profile to come to market,” Khan said in a telephone interview
from  New York . “The Latin American market has been dominated by
 Brazil  and Mexico, so the appeal of getting the diversification,
of going into some of these other countries that also have
positive fundamentals, is very attractive.”  Aval’s $1 billion offering last week attracted almost $8
billion in bids while securities from Bancolombia and  Banco
Davivienda SA (PFDAVVND)  were each six times oversubscribed, according to
the banks. Aval’s sale capped a two-week period in which $2.2
billion of Colombian bank debt was issued, 90 percent of the
total for the third quarter.  ‘Exhausted’ Investors  While there is appetite for Colombian assets, the surge in
issuance from the Andean country in the last few weeks may have
left investors “exhausted in the near term,” said Joe Kogan,
the head of emerging-market debt strategy at Scotia Capital
Markets.  “There has been a lot recently,” Kogan said in a
telephone interview from New York. “You kind of wish they’d
coordinated a little more instead of sending it all at once.”  Besides Bancolombia and Grupo Aval’s offerings this month,
the Colombian government sold $557 million of peso-linked bonds
in overseas markets on Sept. 14 and Colombia Telecomunicaciones
sold $750 million of 10-year dollar debt on Sept. 20.  Corporate Yields  Sales will continue as Colombian companies take advantage
of average borrowing costs near the record low 3.96 percent
reached Sept. 19, said Robert Abad, who helps manage about $41
billion in emerging-market assets at Western Asset Management
Co. After half a century of civil conflict froze foreign
investment, efforts to make peace with Marxist guerrillas will
spur economic expansion, according to Abad.  “This is just the beginning,” he said in a telephone
interview from  Pasadena ,  California . “Everything is primed for
banks to get into a takeoff stage, to drive investment. The
environment’s right, there’s investor demand, a need for
capital, and the corporate sector is hungry for financing.”  Banks in Brazil, Latin America’s largest economy, sold
$11.4 billion of bonds this year, making them the region’s
biggest issuer. Colombian banks displaced Mexican lenders as the
region’s second-biggest issuers of debt last year. In 2010,
Colombian bank issuance was half that of Mexico’s.  Dollar debt sales from all Colombian companies and the
government have climbed to a record $6.55 billion this year, up
23 percent from $5.33 billion in all of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shrinking Spread  Bond-buying programs by the  Federal Reserve  and the
 European Central Bank  are driving down yields on debt from
developed nations, leading investors to seek out notes in
 emerging markets  to bolster returns. Investors demand an average
301 basis points, or 3.01 percentage points, in extra yield to
hold Colombian dollar-denominated corporate bonds rather than
U.S. Treasuries, according to JPMorgan indexes. That is down 101
basis points this year and is lower than the 386 basis point
spread for Brazil’s corporate dollar debt. Colombian government
debt is rated BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , the lowest investment
grade, while Brazil is rated one step higher at BBB.  “People are interested in participating in one of the
fastest growing economies in the region,” said Marc Chouchani,
a director in Latin American debt  capital markets  at Credit
Suisse Group AG, which helped manage Davivienda’s bond sale.
“These banks are growing and the rates are so attractive that
it’s hard to pass up.”  Growth Outlook  The International Monetary Fund forecasts Colombia will
expand 4.7 percent this year, trailing only the 5.5 percent
estimate for Peru among Latin America’s biggest economies.
Colombia’s economy grew 4.9 percent in the second quarter from a
year earlier, according to a government report last week,
beating the forecasts of all 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Colombia’s 5.9 percent growth last year was the fastest
since gross domestic product jumped 6.9 percent in 2007, the
most in three decades.  The economy could see Asia-like growth of 6 percent to 7
percent “for decades” if the government strikes a peace deal
with rebels in soon-to-begin negotiations, Finance Minister
 Mauricio Cardenas  said in an interview last week.  The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, agreed
to sit down with President  Juan Manuel Santos ’ government next
month in Oslo for the first talks in a decade aimed at ending
Latin America’s longest-running armed conflict.  Credit Rating  Colombia won an investment-grade credit rating last year
for the first time since 1999 as improved security bolstered
economic growth and attracted record foreign investment. The
government expects foreign direct investment to rise to $17
billion this year, up from a record $13.2 billion in 2011.  Growing domestic demand buoyed credit in Colombia as
consumers purchased cars and washing machines.  Total loans 
outstanding jumped 24 percent in August 2011 from a year
earlier, the biggest increase in more than three years. Loans
outstanding totaled 231.1 trillion pesos ($128 billion) in July,
according to the most recent data available from Colombia’s
financial watchdog, an increase of 17 percent from a year ago.  Acquisitions by Colombian lenders have also led banks to
tap overseas markets, said Credit Suisse’s Chouchani.  Regional Takeover  Grupo Aval bought General Electric Co.’s BAC Credomatic,
Central America’s second-largest bank, for $1.9 billion in 2010.
This year, Davivienda, Colombia’s third-biggest bank, agreed to
buy HSBC Holdings Plc’s operations in  Costa Rica , El Salvador
and  Honduras  for $801 million, and Banco GNB Sudameris purchased
four of HSBC’s South American businesses, including the
Colombian unit, for about $400 million in cash.  In an interview after Bancolombia’s record bond sale
earlier this month, Chief Executive Officer Carlos Raul Yepes
said he is readying the lender for possible takeovers in the
region.  Bancolombia, Davivienda and Grupo Aval are all rated Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service, the lowest level of investment
grade. Banco GNB Sudameris is rated one step below at Ba1.  Grupo Aval sold the 10-year bonds last week to yield 4.8
percent, which compares to the 5.38 percent offered for the $600
million of five-year securities sold in January. The bonds due
2022 are yielding 4.95 percent today.  “We are seeing significantly oversubscribed books and
guidance being revised lower and lower,” said Alliance
Bernstein’s Khan. “There’s a lot of money chasing these new
issues.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 