-- Colombia Keeps 4.75% Rate and Extends Daily Dollar Purchases
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2012-09-28T20:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/colombia-keeps-4-75-rate-as-gdp-surge-surprises-policy-makers.html
Colombia ’s central bank kept
 interest rates  unchanged today after second quarter growth
surprised policy makers, while also pledging sustained dollar
purchases through March to stem a rally in the peso.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
voted to hold the  overnight lending rate  at 4.75 percent, as
forecast by 22 of 34 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Twelve
expected a third straight quarter-point cut. The bank’s board
also re-elected Uribe for a third four-year term beginning Jan.
4, 2013.  Growth in the second quarter “exceeded the range estimated
by the technical team,” policy makers said in their statement
posted on the central bank’s website. “This underestimate was
due to higher-than-projected growth in domestic demand.”  The Colombian currency has appreciated 7.7 percent this
year, the fourth-best performance against the dollar among the
31-most traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg worldwide. The
Treasury began a program of dollar purchases in August parallel
to the central bank’s in an effort to curb the rally and
continued to do so even after Banco de la Republica stepped up
its own intervention last month.  Uribe said the decision to hold the rate wasn’t unanimous
while policy makers were agreed on extending dollar purchases.  ‘Ammunition’  Banco de la Republica will buy a minimum of $3 billion
between Oct. 1 and March 29, in amounts of at least $20 million
per day, central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said.  At its August meeting, the central bank committed to
increase its daily dollar  purchases  to an average of $28 million
per day through the end of September, from a minimum of $20
million per day previously. The dollar purchases had been
scheduled to end Nov. 2  “Together with the Treasury’s purchases, it will lead the
market to bet less on the peso’s appreciation,” said  Camilo Perez , the head analyst at Banco de Bogota, the nation’s second-
biggest bank, who correctly forecast today’s rate decision.
“It’s going to be more difficult for the peso to strengthen.”  Some traders had bet on a rate cut, so the rate hold could
cause a “jump” in local bond yields, Perez said in a telephone
interview from Bogota.  The Colombian economy grew 4.9 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, beating the forecasts of all 29
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median forecast was for
4.2 percent growth.  Growth, Inflation  The economy’s speed also surprised some members of the 
central bank’s board. In the first two weeks of September, 
co-directors Juan Pablo Zarate and Carlos Gustavo Cano both
forecast second quarter growth of 4.2 percent.  “What need is there to stimulate more an economy that’s
growing close to 5 percent?” said Julian Marquez, an analyst at
Interbolsa SA brokerage in Bogota, in a telephone interview
before the rate decision. “It’s better to have the ammunition
stored for when there’s a big shock, rather than to have fired
it when it wasn’t necessary.”  In September, annual inflation will fall below 3 percent
for the first time in 17 months, according to a Bloomberg survey
of 13 analysts, whose median forecast was for consumer prices to
rise 2.97 percent.  Uribe last month told lawmakers that inflation may end 2012
“slightly below” the mid-point of its target range of 3
percent, plus or minus one percentage point.  In the days before the policy meeting, Finance Minister
 Mauricio Cardenas  argued that there were “good reasons” for
the central bank to continue to cut interest rates to offset the
global slowdown, and said rate cuts would also help curb the
peso’s appreciation in the face of QE3.  The yield on the government’s 10 percent peso-denominated
bonds due in July 2024 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 6.35 percent, according to the central bank. Yesterday
it fell to 6.34 percent, the lowest closing level since the debt
was first sold in 2009. Colombia’s bond and currency market
closed before the central bank’s announcement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  