-- CoreLogic to Pay $7.8 Million in Settlement With New York
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-09-28T14:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/corelogic-to-pay-7-8-million-in-settlement-with-new-york.html
CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)  reached a
$7.8 million settlement with New York over its role in the
collapse of the housing market, state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman said.  Andrew Cuomo , now New York’s governor, sued First American
Corp.’s EAppraiseIT unit while attorney general in November
2007, saying it gave into demands for higher appraisals to
secure more business from Washington Mutual Inc. WaMu filed for
bankruptcy in September 2008 after its banking unit was taken
over by regulators and sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “Coercion of appraisers to inflate home values and the
erosion of appraisal independence directly contributed to the
housing crisis,” Schneiderman said in a statement today
announcing the settlement. “By giving in to lender pressure,
these corporations violated a principle that is vital to
restoring and maintaining a healthy housing market.”  CoreLogic was created in 2010, when  Santa Ana , California-
based First American separated its real estate information
business from its title insurance and financial-services
operations.  CoreLogic and CoreLogic Valuation Services, the successor
to eAppraiseIT, will pay $4 million in fines and $3.8 million in
costs, fees and disbursements, according to the statement.  CoreLogic is “glad to have put this matter behind us,”
Alyson Austin, a company spokeswoman, said in a statement. The
closing of CoreLogic Valuation Services will be completed by the
end of the month, she said. “In conjunction with that activity,
it made sense to dispose of this case.”  The case is New York v. First American Corp., 406796/2007,
New York State Supreme Court, New York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  