-- Coventry Health Investors Sue Over $5.6 Billion Aetna Buyout
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-09-28T23:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/coventry-health-investors-sue-over-5-6-billion-aetna-buyout-1-.html
Aetna Inc. (AET) ’s $5.6 billion takeover
of health insurer Coventry Health Care Inc. shortchanges
Coventry investors while unfairly enriching the company’s top
executive, investors said in a lawsuit.  Aetna, the third-biggest U.S. health plan, agreed last
month to pay $42 a share for Coventry, the best performer in  New
York  trading among medical insurers this year. The deal is
structured to discourage other bidders and provides $7.6 million
in bonuses to Coventry Chief Executive Officer Allen Wise, who
didn’t shop around for the highest offer for the insurer, three
pension funds said in the suit.  “The board’s sales process was woefully inadequate,”
lawyers for the funds, which are Coventry shareholders, said in
the  Delaware  Chancery Court complaint filed yesterday. The funds
seek a court order blocking the deal from being completed.  With the Coventry purchase, Hartford, Connecticut-based
Aetna joined competitors  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  and  Cigna Corp. (CI)  in
making acquisitions over the past year as the U.S. government
expands medical coverage. The purchase means 30 percent of
Aetna’s revenue will come from federal-backed plans for elderly
Medicare enrollees and low-income Medicaid patients, compared
with the current 23 percent.  Kristine Grow , a spokeswoman for Bethesda, Maryland-based
Coventry, declined to comment on the pension funds’ suit today.
 Susan Millerick , an Aetna spokeswoman, had no immediate comment
on the suit.  ‘Lucrative Retirement’  Lawyers for two pension funds based in  Michigan  and one
based in the  U.S. Virgin Islands  contend that Coventry investors
are only getting a 20 percent premium as a result of the deal
while shareholders for other insurers that were recently
acquired got premiums as high as 43 percent.  Disgruntled Coventry investors contend Wise conducted sale
negotiations with Mark Bertolini, Aetna’s CEO, for more than
four months before informing his fellow directors, according to
court filings. Wise also serves as chairman of Coventry’s board.
Aetna wound up offering $42 per share in a cash and stock deal,
the suit said.  Wise, 70, wanted to sell the insurer to secure “a timely
and lucrative retirement,” shareholders’ lawyers contend in the
suit. The CEO stood to receive a $7.6 million bonus if the
company was sold in addition to $14 million in retirement
payments.  Coventry directors also structured the buyout to discourage
other bidders from seeking to buy the insurer by agreeing to a
$167.5 million termination fee if the deal fell apart, investors
said in the complaint.  The deal adds more than 5 million customers to Aetna’s 36.7
million  members , including 250,000 people on Medicare health
plans and 930,000 on Medicaid. Coventry provides prescription
drug coverage to 1.5 million more Medicare enrollees as well.  The case is  Employees’ Retirement System of the Government
of the Virgin Islands  v.  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH) , CA No. 7905,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 