-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Climb as Business Activity Shrinks
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-09-28T17:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/credit-swaps-in-u-s-increase-ahead-of-spain-stress-test-results.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose for the first time in three days on reports that
showed economic growth is weakening.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses on corporate debt or to speculate on
creditworthiness, increased 0.9 basis point to a mid-price of
99.4 basis points at 12:56 p.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg. The index was updated last week,
replacing companies that no longer had appropriate grades or
whose contracts aren’t among the most actively traded.  The measure increased as business activity in the U.S.
unexpectedly contracted in September for the first time in three
years, according to the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago
Inc., stoking concern that the downturn may impair companies’
ability to repay debt. The Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan  index  of consumer sentiment rose to 78.3 this month
from 74.3 in August, short of the 79 median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Yields on company debt have fallen so low that investors
end up in a “lose-lose situation,” Robert Grimm, head of high-
yield trading at Odeon Capital Group LLC in Greenwich,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “If the world gets
better then  interest rates  go up, and if the world gets worse
then credit gets worse.”  NBCUniversal Media  The credit swaps index typically increases as investor
sentiment deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  NBCUniversal Media LLC, the media company owned by  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) , plans to sell $2 billion of 10- and 30-year notes,
according to a person familiar with the deal. The bonds, which
will be used to increase working capital and for general
corporate purposes, may be rated two levels above junk at Baa2
by Moody’s Investors Service and the third-lowest investment
grade at BBB+ by  Standard & Poor’s , said the person, who asked
not to be identified because terms aren’t set.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade debt
widened by 1 basis point, led by the bonds of utility and
consumer companies, which increased 2 basis points, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  RadioShack CDS  Credit swaps tied to  RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  rose 1.8 percentage
points to 38.8 percent upfront as of 12:30 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  That’s in addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would
cost $3.88 million initially and $500,000 annually to protect
$10 million of RadioShack’s debt for five years. Chief Executive
Officer James Gooch left this week after 16 months on the job.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  