-- T-Mobile USA to Sell Towers to Crown Castle for $2.4B
-- B y   K e n n e t h   W o n g   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-09-28T20:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/crown-castle-to-buy-t-mobile-usa-towers-for-2-4-billion.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile USA
agreed to sell the rights to operate 7,200 cellular towers to
 Crown Castle International Corp. (CCI)  for $2.4 billion, providing
cash to invest in the carrier’s U.S. wireless network.  Crown Castle will have the exclusive rights to lease and
operate the antenna towers for about 28 years, with the option
to fully acquire them at the end of the lease, the companies
said in a statement today. Crown Castle will make the payment at
the closing of the transaction, which is expected in the fourth
quarter, the companies said.  Deutsche Telekom set out to sell T-Mobile USA’s towers
after a failed $39 billion takeover of the carrier by  AT&T Inc. (T) 
last year. The deal will help the company raise money for
wireless spectrum and network enhancements, while allowing T-
Mobile to rent back antenna space on the towers. Crown Castle
can then use the assets to provide service to other carriers.  “They got a very steep price at $2.4 billion,” said Kevin Smithen, an analyst with Macquarie Capital USA Inc. “And the
28-year deal signifies that T-Mobile is likely going to be in
the U.S. for the long term.”  The tower sale comes nine days after Deutsche Telekom hired
former Global Crossing Ltd. Chief Executive Officer John Legere
as T-Mobile USA’s CEO. Legere said his plan is to restart
subscriber growth and go after No. 3 carrier  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
T-Mobile ranks fourth in the U.S. market.  After AT&T  Deutsche Telekom said it’s committed to T-Mobile’s effort
to regain ground it had lost last year during the scuttled AT&T
takeover attempt. In February, Deutsche Telekom said it would
boost U.S. network spending budget by $1.4 billion over two
years to win back customers who want faster, fourth-generation
service on their smartphones.  “T-Mobile USA is working aggressively to make our 4G
network stronger, faster and more dependable for consumers, and
this transaction will support our ongoing $4 billion network
modernization initiative,” Legere said in the statement.  It’s not uncommon for wireless carriers to sell towers when
they need cash, said James Ratcliffe, an analyst with Barclays
Capital Inc. in New York.  The leaseback arrangement mirrors the real-estate deals
that let businesses sell their buildings while still occupying
them. Sprint sold about 3,300 towers to TowerCo LLC in 2008
raising $670 million in cash.  Leaseback Benefits  “T-Mobile got a good amount of cash and good lease
terms,” Ratcliffe said. “This frees up financial capacity for
upgrades in the U.S., and they don’t need to be as dependent on
financing from  Germany ,” he said.  Crown Castle shares fell 1.3 percent to $64.10 at the close
in New York today. Deutsche Telekom fell 1.6 percent to 9.58
euro in  Frankfurt .  In a separate statement, Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom said
the deal will reduce the company’s debt by 1.9 billion euros
($2.4 billion.)  “We have found an intelligent way to strengthen T-Mobile
USA among competitors and reduce the group’s net debt at the
same time,” Deutsche Telekom Chief Financial Officer Timotheus
Hottges said in a statement.  T-Mobile USA, based in Bellevue,  Washington , has been cited
by analysts as an acquisition target. The company is the only
major U.S. carrier that doesn’t offer  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone.
That’s put it at a disadvantage to its three larger rivals,
Verizon Wireless, AT&T and Sprint.  Buying T-Mobile USA would help Sprint gain the critical
mass needed to take on AT&T and Verizon, Smithen has said. Jason Armstrong, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said earlier
this month that it might make sense for Sprint to buy MetroPCS
or its prepaid rival  Leap Wireless International Inc. (LEAP)   T-Mobile was advised by TAP Advisors and Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc., according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  