-- Oil Caps Biggest Quartely Gain This Year
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-09-28T19:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/crude-heads-for-second-weekly-loss-on-economy-opec-comments.html
Oil capped the biggest quarterly
increase this year on concern that escalating Middle East
tension will disrupt supplies and as gasoline surged to a five-
month high.  Crude gained 0.4 percent as the White House said President
 Barack Obama  and Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  are
in “full agreement” on preventing Iran from getting a nuclear
weapon. Gasoline rose on worries supplies are tightening. Prices
rebounded after falling more than $10 to $89.98 on Sept. 26 from
an intraday high above $100 on Sept. 14.  “There is concern about the increasing tension in the
Middle East,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the
Price Futures Group in Chicago. “There is a squeeze play on
gasoline and it’s leading the way. You had a major correction,
$10 at a short period of time, and it’s time to rebound.”  Crude for November delivery gained 34 cents, or 0.4
percent, to settle at $92.19 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Futures dropped 0.8 percent this week and 4.4 percent
this month. Prices climbed 8.5 percent in the third quarter, the
most since the three months ended Dec. 30.  Brent oil for November settlement advanced 38 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $112.39 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  “There does seem to be some support around $90,” said
 Chris Barber , a senior analyst at Energy Security Analysis Inc.
in Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “We are likely getting to the
bottom.”  Security Commitment  Obama told Netanyahu in a 20-minute phone conversation
today that the U.S. is committed to Israel’s security, according
to a White House statement. It followed weeks of tension between
the leaders over how aggressively to confront Iran’s nuclear
development program.  In an address to the United Nations yesterday,Netanyahu
used a drawing of a cartoonish, short-fused bomb to challenge
the international community to shut down  Iran’s nuclear program .  “The geopolitical risk is out there,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in Chicago. “The market is hypersensitive to anything coming
out of the  Middle East .”  Countries in the Middle East and North Africa produced 36
percent of the world’s oil and held 52 percent of proven
reserves in 2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of
World Energy.  Gasoline Climbs  Gasoline for October delivery surged 6.3 percent to $3.342
a gallon on the Nymex, the highest settlement since April 13, as
refineries in  Canada ,  Wales  and the Netherlands that supply the
U.S. East Coast reduced fuel production.  The October contract expired at the close of floor trading
today. The more-active November futures increased 2.29 cents, or
0.8 percent, to $2.9201 a gallon.  Gasoline inventories in the region, which includes New York
Harbor, the delivery point for futures contracts, fell to 46.8
million barrels in the week ended Sept. 21, the least since
October 2008, Energy Department data show.  Oil and gasoline also advanced as U.S. stocks pared losses.
Financial shares reversed declines after stress tests on Spanish
banks revealed a smaller capital shortfall than some had
speculated.  “Gasoline is very strong and it has to do with what’s
going on in the physical market,” said  Addison Armstrong ,
director of market research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “We’ve been led by the equity market.”  Economic Growth  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.5 percent at 3:42
p.m. in New York after falling as much as 0.8 percent. It was
poised for its worst week since June after a report showed U.S.
business activity unexpectedly contracted in September.  Oil fell earlier on concern that slower economic growth
will reduce demand and as Abdalla El-Badri, the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries’ secretary-general, said supplies
are ample.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer shrank for the first time in three years.
 Consumer spending  stalled in August, the Commerce Department
reported today in  Washington . Purchases rose 0.1 percent after
adjusting for inflation, following a 0.4 percent gain in July.  “The broader macroeconomic outlook is weak, and there is a
direct correlation between economic growth and oil demand,”
Barber said. “I don’t think there is any shortage of oil and
the market is sufficiently supplied.”  OPEC Output  OPEC oil production was 32 million barrels a day in
September, near a four-year high, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The group’s spare production capacity climbed 11
percent this month to 5.531 million barrels a day, the highest
level since October, according to Bloomberg data.  OPEC’s spare capacity “remains at relatively comfortable
levels and total commercial stock levels are healthy,” El-Badri
said today at a speech in Berlin. “The market is currently well
supplied. We see no shortages.”  Oil may decline next week on economic worries, according to
a Bloomberg survey. Thirteen of 28 analysts, or 46 percent,
forecast crude will decrease through Oct. 5. Ten respondents, or
36 percent, predicted that futures will gain and five said there
will be little change in prices.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 316,367
contracts as of 3:43 p.m. in  New York  Volume totaled 439,391
contracts yesterday, 17 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.56 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  