-- Cytori’s Stem Cell Therapy for Burns Wins U.S. Contract
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-09-28T20:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/cytori-s-stem-cell-therapy-for-burns-wins-u-s-contract.html
Cytori Therapeutics Inc. (CYTX) , a
biotechnology company with $10 million in annual revenue, rose
the most in about a year after the company won a $4.7 million
U.S. government contract to develop a stem cell therapy to treat
burns caused by thermal or radioactive bombs.  Cytori jumped 14 percent to $4.41 at the close in  New York ,
the biggest single-day increase since October 2011. The shares
of the San Diego-based company have doubled this year.  “We’re seeing a lot of momentum,” Chief Executive Officer
Christopher Calhoun said today in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “This contract is one more major thing that we are
delivering on, and there is more to come.”  The two-year contract with the  Department of Health  and
Human Service’s Biomedical Advanced Research and Development
Authority may be worth $106 million over five years if certain
milestones are met, Cytori said today in a statement. The
company had a net loss last year of $32 million, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Cytori’s experimental therapy takes adipose tissue, or body
fat, from a patient and through its device separates the adult
stem and regenerative cells before transferring them to a burn
wound. Money from the contract will be used to develop the
device and take it through the U.S. regulatory approval process
with the  Food and Drug Administration , Calhoun said.  “These cells help to facilitate the healing of the
injury,” he said in a telephone interview earlier this week.
“They release growth factors that stimulate new blood flow.”  Testing the technology in a clinical trial and getting
approval may take five years, Calhoun said. The company is
currently testing its therapy for other soft tissue damage, as
well as cardiovascular disease.  Once approved, the device will be deployed in hospitals
across the country, and can be used for routine burns as well as
a treatment for patients in wake of a “mass casualty event”
that could injure 10,000 people, Cytori said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  