-- Democrat Leaners Prefer Clinton to Obama in Poll
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-09-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/democrat-leaners-prefer-clinton-to-obama-in-poll.html
A plurality of Democratic-leaning
voters would prefer  Bill Clinton  at the top of the presidential
ticket even as they support President  Barack Obama .  Forty-nine percent of Democrats and independents who lean
that way said that “if it were possible” they “wish” Clinton
were this year’s candidate, compared with 48 percent who said
they didn’t, a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Sept. 21-24
shows.  The results are more a testament to Clinton’s popularity
than dissatisfaction with Obama. The former president ranked as
the most popular national political figure tested, scoring a
favorability rating of 64 percent among all Americans compared
with 29 percent who view him unfavorably.  Obama is viewed favorably by 52 percent of the public while
Republican challenger Mitt Romney has a 43 percent favorable
rating, the poll shows.  “In spite of scandals up to and including impeachment,
Bill Clinton’s perceived ability to run the country was never
seriously damaged,” said J. Ann Selzer, referencing a job
approval that never fell below 50 percent in the Gallup Poll
during his second term, when he faced the most serious
challenges. Selzer is president of Selzer & Co. in  West Des
Moines ,  Iowa , which conducted the poll for Bloomberg.  Clinton Bounce  Clinton’s standing on the national political stage was
cemented Sept. 5 during the Democratic National Convention in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , when he used an array of budget and
economic statistics to defend Obama’s economic record. Even
Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  took note of the force of
Clinton’s speech when he appeared earlier this week at a global
conference in  New York  sponsored by the former president.  After a friendly introduction by Clinton, Romney said: “If
there is one thing we’ve learned in this election season, by the
way, it is that a few words from Bill Clinton can do a man a lot
of good. All I’ve got to do now is wait a couple days, to wait
for that bounce to happen.”  According to the poll, Clinton’s defense of Obama is
working with the public.  When asked whether they agreed with the former president’s
position that Obama has “made things better” or with
Republican running mate  Paul Ryan ’s argument that the
administration’s policies have “made things worse,” 51 percent
of Americans side with Clinton compared with 40 percent who
agree with Ryan.  When a similar question about the top of the ticket was
posed to likely Republican voters and independents who lean that
way, just 27 percent said they wished Ryan, a Wisconsin
congressman, had top billing instead of Romney.  Political Makeover  The findings represent a political makeover for Clinton,
66, whose affair with a White House intern led to his
impeachment and made him an outcast during his party’s national
convention in 2000.  It also illustrates the degree to which Democrats have
become nostalgic about the economic growth of the Clinton era of
the 1990s, which saw the creation of 21 million jobs. Forgotten
at times are the partisan battles that led to multiple, partial
government shutdowns.  “He was able to work with the Republicans and Democrats,”
said poll participant Philippe Muller, 64, a technology
consultant who lives in North Hanover,  Massachusetts . “There
was a lot more collaboration between the two groups that we are
not seeing today.”  In an uncertain time with a national unemployment rate of
8.1 percent, Selzer said Clinton also represents stability.  “He’s a known quantity and that may equate with
certainty,” she said. “At this point, voters wish they knew
more and Bill Clinton fills that gap.”  Younger Democrats  Younger Democrats were more likely to say they wished
Clinton were running, something of an irony given the strong
support Obama had among the youth vote four years ago. Among
those under 35 years old, 63 percent took that view.  In another sign of the former president’s popularity, the
Obama campaign’s most-aired TV ad features Clinton talking about
the “clear choice” for voters in the Nov. 6 election. The spot
ran 15,607 times from Aug. 24 through Sept. 24, according to
data from Kantar Media’s CMAG, on national cable networks as
well as on stations aimed at voters in swing states.  The Clinton-Obama relationship has been a complicated one.
Clinton was outraged by Obama’s treatment of his wife,  Hillary Clinton , during the 2008 primary campaign and miffed that Obama
didn’t often seek his advice until after the Democrats’ losses
in the 2010 midterm elections. Relations have since warmed and
Clinton has become one of Obama’s top surrogates and supporters.  Bloomberg’s telephone survey sample size was 1,007, with a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.
Responses to questions regarding the top of the tickets included
445 Republicans and Republican-leaning independents and 491
Democrats and Democratic-leaning independents, with margins of
error of plus or minus 4.7 percentage points and 4.4 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Washington at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  