-- Dendreon Gains After Aetna Expands Coverage of Provenge
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-09-28T20:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/dendreon-gains-after-aetna-expands-coverage-of-provenge.html
Dendreon Corp. (DNDN) , maker of the
prostate cancer drug Provenge, gained after insurer  Aetna (AET)  Inc.
said it will cover more patients to receive the therapy.  Dendreon  rose  3.9 percent to $4.81 at the close in  New
York . The shares of the Seattle-based company had slid 37
percent this year.  Aetna, the third-biggest U.S. health plan, said Provenge is
“medically necessary” for prostate cancer that has spread but
not reached the liver in patients expected to live six months or
more. Previously, Aetna’s insurance didn’t cover the drug for
patients whose cancer had expanded to the brain or lungs, Susan
Millerick, a spokeswoman for Hartford, Connecticut-based Aetna,
said in an e-mail.  Aetna considers other uses, such as preventing prostate
cancer and treating the disease if it hasn’t spread beyond the
walnut-sized gland experimental, “because its effectiveness for
these indications has not been established,” according to the
insurer’s  bulletin .  “Dendreon sees this as a positive policy update for
patients with advanced prostate cancer who may be eligible for
Provenge,” April Falcone, a spokeswoman for Dendreon, said in
an e-mail.  Provenge, known medically as sipuleucel-T, was approved in
April 2010 as the first therapy in the U.S. that trains the
body’s immune system to attack cancer cells as if they were a
virus. The treatment, which costs $93,000, was cleared for
patients with advanced cases of prostate cancer after a three-
year effort to gain regulatory backing.  About 241,740 men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer
this year, and 28,170 will die from the disease, according to
the  National Cancer Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  