-- Deutsche Bank Said to Repackage Post-Crisis CMBS
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-09-28T16:11:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/deutsche-bank-said-to-repackage-post-crisis-cmbs-into-new-bonds.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  is planning to
repackage lower-ranking commercial-mortgage bonds into new
securities carrying higher grades, using a technique similar to
those that fueled sales of risky debt before mortgage values
collapsed five years ago.  The bank may offer investors yields of about 4 percent on
as much as $300 million of debt linked to securities created
from property loans within the past year, according to three
people familiar with the offering who asked not to be identified
because talks are preliminary.  Amanda Williams , a spokeswoman for Deutsche Bank in New
York, declined to comment.  The proposed deal would transform commercial-mortgage bonds
rated BBB-, the lowest investment-grade ranking, into securities
rated four levels higher at A. That mirrors how some
collateralized debt obligations were created during the boom
years.  “The ability to transform newly rated BBB- bonds into A
rated bonds suggests that the rating agencies continue to place
significant value in the diversity created by packaging multiple
bonds together,”  Richard Hill , a debt strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc said in an e-mail. “This methodology
wasn’t particularly successful in older vintage CDOs as the
performance of bonds proved to be highly correlated despite the
perceived diversity.”  CDOs, which parcel bonds or loans into new securities of
varying risks and return, helped fuel the shoddy lending leading
to the crash in property values starting in 2006, the U.S.
Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations said in a
bipartisan report last year.  Investor demand for commercial real-estate debt is soaring
as the Federal Reserve measures to boost economic growth push
investors toward riskier assets to generate higher returns.
Sales have surged to the most in almost five years, with $7.9
billion of bonds linked to shopping malls, skyscrapers and
hotels issued this month, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  