-- Downward Social Mobility’s Long Literary Lineage
-- B y   A n d r e w   L a w s o n
-- 2012-09-28T19:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/downward-social-mobility-s-long-literary-lineage.html
The promise of upward social
mobility is central to the American Dream, and the rags-to-
riches story is a staple of American literature.  Yet, as more and more Americans slip down the
socioeconomic ladder, it is worth recalling that many 19th-
century novelists also grappled with the paradox of business
failure in a land of opportunity.  The 19th-century economy was radically unstable, wracked
by repeated cycles of boom and bust, and the years of
financial panic -- 1837, 1857, 1873 and 1893 -- were pressure
points that pushed families under.  In an analysis of the Federal Census for Philadelphia in
1860, the Cornell University historian  Stuart Blumin  found
that about a tenth of the individuals in each income group had
moved to a higher ranking. At the same time, downward mobility
increased sharply, so that the number of those rising on the
social escalator was almost exactly matched by the masses of
people on their way down.  Among the latter was Henry Whiting Warner, a prosperous
New York lawyer who lost a fortune acquired through
speculation in Manhattan real estate in the 1837 panic.  Pastoral Simplicity  Warner’s youngest daughter, Anna Bartlett Warner,
explored the social and emotional consequences of his failure
in her 1852 novel, “Dollars and Cents.” The narrator, Grace
Howard, looks on in horror as the family’s furniture,
ornaments and heirlooms are confiscated by the sheriff after
her father is declared bankrupt. As their drawing room is
progressively dismantled, the family’s once-secure middle-
class identity falls apart. When the Howards move to the
country, Grace embraces frugality and self-sufficiency, a way
of life that Warner portrays as grounded in present reality
rather than the speculative future.  The 1830s were also hard times for Herman Melville’s
family. His father, Allan Melvill, failed so spectacularly as
an importer of  luxury goods  that he was forced to flee his
Manhattan creditors and take a job as a store clerk in  Albany .
The 12-year-old Melville was withdrawn from school and put to
work as a clerk in the New York State Bank.  Pale, respectable and forlorn, the hero of Melville’s
1853 story “ Bartleby, the Scrivener: A Story of Wall Street ”
has the appearance of a ruined merchant. Bartleby affects a
gentlemanly nonchalance, but owns only a blanket, a shoe brush
and a tin basin. While his employer conducts what he sees as a
safe legal business in mortgages and bonds, Melville’s hero is
forced to endure the precariousness of life in a wildly
fluctuating market.  Another classic American author,  Stephen Crane , came from
a family that was slipping downward. His father was a
prominent Methodist minister who lost his position after a
doctrinal dispute. Crane’s mother worked as a temperance
lecturer, supplementing the family income by taking in
boarders.  In 1893, Crane lived in a Manhattan rooming house when
panic again hit the  New York  stock market and the economy
plunged into a long recession. Crane’s response was to tour
the Bowery’s saloons and soup kitchens, gathering material in
almost sociological fashion for “Maggie: A Girl of the
Streets,” which was published in 1893. As the long downturn
pushed white-collar workers toward the margins of the working
class, Crane’s novel expressed the middle-class fear of
falling.  2007 Recession  Similar anxieties have resurfaced. Paul Auster’s “Sunset
Park,” one of the first novels to tackle the subject of the
most recent  recession , charts the downward trajectory of Miles
Heller, a college dropout who has rejected the trappings of a
relatively privileged life as the son of a Manhattan
publisher. Miles works on a crew trashing out foreclosed homes
in south  Florida . He begins a romance with Pilar Sanchez, a
girl from a working-class, Mexican-American family, and ends
up living in a squat in the Sunset Park area of  Brooklyn .  Also sheltering there are Bing Nathan, who runs a
junkshop selling manual typewriters, mechanical watches and
rotary telephones; Ellen Brice, an artist who works for a
real-estate agent; Alice Bergstrom, a graduate student at
 Columbia University , and her boyfriend, Jake Baum, a fiction
writer who has given up trying to scrape by on his salary as a
part-time teacher at a  community college . Little separates the
occupants of the Brooklyn squat from the Sanchez family in
terms of economic security and future prospects.  The current reality of squeezed incomes and precarious
employment has led a variety of commentators, including Thomas Frank and Peter Gosselin (now an analyst at Bloomberg
Government), to describe middle-class families as either
“falling behind” or treading a perilous “high wire.”  In terms of exposure to economic risk, it seems little
has changed since the 19th century. Fear of falling might have
produced some of the great literature of the past. But as
Auster’s novel shows, the U.S. could still do with a stronger
safety net.  (Andrew Lawson is a principal lecturer in English
literature at Leeds Metropolitan University. He is the author
of “Downwardly Mobile: The Changing Fortunes of American
Realism.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this article:
Andrew Lawson at  A.Lawson@leedsmet.ac.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  