-- Ecopetrol Says Guerrilla Attacks Have ‘Low’ Impact on Output
-- B y   S a r a   E i s e n   a n d   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-09-28T20:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/ecopetrol-says-guerrilla-attacks-have-low-impact-on-output-3-.html
Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Colombia’s largest
oil company, said the nation is close to production of 1 million
barrels a day as rebel sabotage has a “low impact” on the
company’s output, according to its chief executive officer.  Ecopetrol, based in Bogota, is producing about 750,000
barrels a day, CEO Javier Gutierrez said today in New York on
Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance.” Guerrillas have
targeted energy infrastructure including pipelines.  “The last year we had an increase in terms of the
attacks,” Gutierrez said. “But really it has a low impact on
our production -- just 1 percent.”  State-controlled Ecopetrol is the seventh-most valuable oil
company worldwide after embarking on an $80 billion investment
plan through 2020 to produce 1.3 million barrels a day. Rising
output has made Colombia the third-largest oil supplier in South
America and prompted guerrillas to more than quadruple attacks
on pipelines this year to deprive the state of revenue.  Ecopetrol’s market value of $120.3 billion surpassed
 Norway ’s  Statoil ASA (STL)  and the U.K.’s  BG Group Plc (BG/) , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Gutierrez reiterated his company’s
plans to produce an average of the equivalent of 780,000 barrels
a day of oil this year.  Oil Auction  Sabotage probably will prevent Ecopetrol from meeting that
goal, said Juan David Ballen, an analyst at Bogota-based
brokerage Alianza Valores SA, which has a “hold” on the stock.  “It’s been a very difficult situation for them with all
the attacks,” Ballen said in a phone interview. He forecasts
full-year average output of about 755,000 barrels a day.  The company cut its target in July from 800,000 barrels a
day after sabotage rose. Attacks on pipelines quadrupled to 88
in the first seven months of 2012 from 20 in the year earlier,
according to estimates by the Defense Ministry.  Colombia’s oil industry is exporting more than 650,000
barrels a day as the government prepares to auction blocks this
year, including unconventional energy blocks, he said.  Gutierrez later told reporters companies showing interest
in such reserves in Colombia include Exxon Mobil Corp.,
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA)   Selling Debt  Shell is evaluating information related to the auction,
Bill Tanner, a Shell spokesman, said by telephone today.
ConocoPhillips was notified that it is one of the pre-qualifiers
for an oil and gas leasing round in Colombia, Davy Kong, a
ConocoPhillips spokeswoman, said in an e-mail today.  Patrick McGinn, an Exxon spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement the company doesn’t comment on potential
opportunities. The Irving, Texas-based company holds a stake in
a block in central Colombia, he said. Exxon agreed to spend as
much as $50 million to explore for shale oil in Colombia with
 Canacol Energy Ltd. (CNE) , the latter said in an April 4 statement.  Ecopetrol will sell debt before it sells stock, and expects
to issue peso- and dollar-denominated debt, Chief Financial
Officer Adriana Echeverri told reporters today in New York. A
debt sale will depend on next year’s spending plan that will be
set near year-end, she said.  Ecopetrol’s third equity offering may be global, according
to Echeverri. Last year, Ecopetrol raised 2.4 trillion pesos
($1.3 billion), below its target of 2.5 trillion pesos, amid a
global equities rout. The Colombian government owns 88.5 percent
of Ecopetrol.  Ecopetrol rose 0.4 percent to close at 5,300 pesos in
Bogota.  Venezuela and  Brazil  are South America’s two largest oil
suppliers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Eisen in New York at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  