-- Medtronic Agrees to Pay $816 Million for China Kanghui
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   D a v e   M c C o m b s
-- 2012-09-28T20:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/medtronic-to-buy-china-kanghui-to-expand-in-orthopedic-market.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  agreed to pay $816
million for orthopedic implant maker  China Kanghui Holdings
Inc. (KH) , gaining a broader foothold in the nation’s medical-device
market with its biggest overseas acquisition.  The pacemaker and spinal implant supplier will pay $30.75
per American depositary receipt in a transaction worth $755
million net of Kanghui’s cash, the Minneapolis-based company
said in a  statement  on its website. That’s 22 percent higher
than yesterday’s closing price.  The biggest purchase of a Chinese health-care products
maker brings Medtronic closer to the goal of getting 20 percent
of  sales  from emerging markets by 2016, from less than 10
percent last year.  China  is Asia’s second-largest user of
medical devices, an industry that will grow 39 percent to $228
billion by 2015 in the world’s 10 biggest markets,
 MarketsandMarkets  estimated last year.  “Kanghui provides several advantages for Medtronic,”
Jason Mann, health-care analyst at Barclays Plc in  Hong Kong 
said today in a report to clients. “Access to thousands of
hospitals in China, the fastest growing orthopedic market,
international corporate culture and emerging market access, with
15 percent revenue from outside China, including  Latin America 
and the  Middle East .”  Medtronic has spent more than $2.6 billion on overseas
acquisitions, including a $221 million deal for a 15 percent
stake in  Shandong Weigao Group Medical Polymer Co. (1066)  in 2007, at
the time the biggest maker of medical devices in the world’s
most populous nation.  Chinese Orthopedics  “Kanghui brings Medtronic a broad product portfolio, a
strong local R&D and manufacturing operation,” Chris O’Connell,
president of Medtronic’s Restorative Therapies Group, said in
the statement. The deal provides “advantages in the fast-
growing Chinese orthopedic segment, as well as a foothold in the
emerging global value segment in orthopedics.”  Based on the $755 million deal value net of Kanghui’s cash,
Medtronic is paying about 32 times 2011 earnings before
interest, depreciation, taxes and amortization. That compares
with the 14 times earnings average of nine similar medical
products deals announced or completed over the past 12 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The price may create some “sticker-shock” for Medtronic
investors, said Michael Matson, an analyst with  Mizuho
Securities  in  New York . It may be justified by Kanghui’s rapid
sales growth, profit margins and potential for expansion in
China and other developing markets, he said.  Never Cheap  “I would have preferred to see them pay less, but this is
a fast-growing company in a fast-growing market,” Matson said
in a telephone interview. “Those things are never cheap.”  Medtronic declined less than 1 percent to $43.12 at the
close in New York. It has climbed 13 percent this year.
Kanghui’s American depositary receipts surged 21 percent to
$30.35. Each receipt equals six ordinary shares.  The deal is expected to close in the next few months and
will help Medtronic widen its offerings in orthopedics and
neurosurgery, according to the statement. Changzhou, China-based
Kanghui was founded in 1997 and raised $68.4 million in an
August 2010 initial public offering.  The acquisition fits with Chief Executive Officer Omar Ishrak’s plans to expand Medtronic in fast-growing  emerging
markets , particularly China and  India .  “He’s been very clear that globalization is one of the
things he’s doing,” Matson said. “They are probably going to
do more deals where they can find opportunities to pick up good
companies and get a jump start in these markets.”  Kanghui profit rose 21 percent to 121 million  yuan  ($19
million) last year, on sales that increased 35 percent to 327
million, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Dave McCombs in Tokyo at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  