-- Emerging Stocks Heading for Best Month Since February
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-09-28T21:52:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/emerging-stocks-heading-for-best-month-since-january.html
Developing nation stocks rose,
extending the best monthly gain since February, as  China 
injected a record amount of funds into its financial system and
on speculation Spain may request a bailout.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index increased 0.4 percent to
1,002.66, bringing its advance this month to 5.8 percent. The
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  jumped 1.5 percent as the  yuan  hit the
strongest level since 1993 and  SAIC (600104)  Motor Corp., China’s largest
carmaker, surged the most in four months.  India ’s benchmark
gauge increased to a 14-month high and  Russia ’s Micex index
rallied for a second day.  China’s money-market rate completed the biggest weekly drop
in 11 months after the central bank’s actions to ease a cash
crunch before next week’s holiday. The Shanghai Composite has
rallied from a 3 1/2-year low on Sept. 26 amid speculation
policy makers will take steps to boost growth. Spanish 10-year
government bonds erased a decline on speculation the nation may
request a bailout, enabling the European Central Bank to buy its
debt.  “The main driver remains the very supportive global
liquidity conditions that has helped risk assets tremendously,”
Aryam Vazquez, an economist for global emerging markets at Wells
Fargo & Co., said by phone from New York. “China has been very
adamant about their ability to prime the fiscal pump to maintain
their growth rates. You are still looking at a more positive
structural outlook for emerging markets.”  EM ETF Slips  The iShares  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, dropped 0.6
percent. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, rose 4.1 percent.  Brazil ’s Bovespa stock index slid 1.8 percent as  Banco do
Brasil SA , Latin America’s largest lender by assets, declined
3.9 percent. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its rating on the
lender to the equivalent of hold and Valor Economico said the
state-controlled lender will lower fees on some services.  The MSCI gauge has climbed 7 percent this quarter, buoyed
by central bank actions in  Europe , the U.S.,  Japan , China and
Brazil to counter the drag on growth from Europe’s debt crisis.  The BSE India Sensitive  Index (VXEEM)  increased 1 percent and the
rupee strengthened 0.3 percent against the dollar as the
government maintained its target for debt sales. Offshore
investors bought shares worth $3.5 billion this month, the
highest inflows since February.  India Deficit  A report after local markets closed today showed India’s
current-account deficit narrowed last quarter from a record. The
shortfall was $16.4 billion in the three months ended June 30,
compared with a $21.7 billion gap from January through March,
the Reserve Bank of India said. The median of 16 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was a $14.2 billion deficit.  Hungary’s BUX Index dropped 0.5 percent after the nation’s
current-account surplus was smaller than economists estimated in
the second quarter.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
dollar bonds over U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 307, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global Index.  Shanghai-based SAIC jumped 4.7 percent after Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. said falling industry inventories point to
improving conditions.  The People’s Bank of China injected a net 365 billion yuan
($58 billion) via reverse-repurchase operations and bill
redemptions this week, the most since Bloomberg started
compiling the data in 2008. That compares with 101 billion yuan
added last week. China’s financial markets will be shut next
week for the National Day and mid-autumn holidays.  The yuan had its biggest gain in six months after the PBOC
strengthened its reference rate today by the most since Aug. 22.  Korea Aerospace Industries Ltd. (047810) , a maker of supersonic
trainer jets, jumped 15 percent in  Seoul  after Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co. offered to buy a stake, rivaling a bid from
Korean Air Lines Co. The nation’s Kospi Index rose 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  