-- Mercedes F1 Team Hires Lewis Hamilton to Replace Schumacher
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-09-28T13:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/mercedes-f1-team-said-to-hire-hamilton-to-replace-schumacher.html
The Mercedes Formula One team hired
 Lewis Hamilton  to replace seven-time champion  Michael Schumacher 
next season.  Hamilton, 27, will join from McLaren, with whom he won the
2008 title, Mercedes  said in a statement . His association with
McLaren dates back to when he first received backing from the
Woking, England-based team at the age of 13.  “It is now time for me to take on a fresh challenge and I
am very excited to begin a new chapter racing,” Hamilton said
in the statement. He agreed to a three-year contract.  In comments distributed by his management agency XIX
Entertainment, Hamilton said he was “forever grateful” to
McLaren for supporting him.  Schumacher, 43, has failed to win a race since making a
comeback to the series with Mercedes in 2010.  “I have had three nice years with the team which
unfortunately did not go as well as we all would have wanted on
the sporting side,” he said in the statement.  Schumacher said he will now concentrate on the remaining
six races of the season, without clarifying if he will seek a
new team next season. The German won consecutive titles with
Ferrari from 2000 to 2004.  McLaren said in a statement it signed Sauber’s Sergio
Perez, 22, as a replacement.  The Mexican driver thanked  Carlos Slim  Jr., the son of the
world’s richest man, for supporting his career for the last
eight years. Slim Jr. is a patron of the Mexican auto racing
federation.  “I wouldn’t be where I am today” without him, Perez said
in the statement.  Ferrari’s  Fernando Alonso  leads the drivers’ championship
after 14 of 20 races. Hamilton is fourth, Perez ninth and
Schumacher 12th.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  