-- Merkel’s One-Time Ally Steinbrueck Set to Be Her 2013 Challenger
-- B y   A l a n   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-09-28T14:55:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/merkel-s-one-time-ally-steinbrueck-set-to-be-her-2013-challenger.html
Germany ’s opposition  Social
Democrats  chose  Peer Steinbrueck , a chess-playing former finance
minister, as their candidate to challenge Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in 2013 elections.  Steinbrueck, 65, who served for four years in Merkel’s
first-term government, was selected after Frank-Walter Steinmeier, a former foreign minister who lost to Merkel at the
last election in 2009, dropped out of the running. Steinbrueck
will be nominated at a special sitting of the SPD executive
board on Oct. 1, Chairman  Sigmar Gabriel  told reporters today in
Berlin. The decision was made two weeks ago, he said.  Once Steinmeier made clear that he didn’t want to run, “we
agreed that, given the time available to us and given the issues
that face us, perhaps I could draw the maximum support possible
for the SPD,” Steinbrueck said at the same event.  With the elections due to be fought on Merkel’s handling of
the euro-area debt crisis, Steinbrueck has been touted in party
circles as having the best chance of defeating her. As far back
as May last year, former SPD Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder said
in an interview that Steinbrueck would be a “very good
candidate” and there’s “no question” he’d campaign for him.  This is a “very reasonable decision” by the Social
Democratic leadership,  Jan Techau , director of the European
Center of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in
Brussels, said in an e-mail. “The campaign will be a lot more
interesting than in 2009.”  Banking Proposal  Steinbrueck has already begun raising his profile. He
unveiled a proposal this week for German banks to split their
investment-banking operations from retail units to protect
depositors. Deutsche Bank AG co-Chief Executive Officer Anshu Jain responded that Germany’s biggest bank is still committed to
the so-called universal banking model.  While the SPD trails Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc by between four
and 12 percentage points in the six regular opinion polls, the
weakness of Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition partner means she
may not be able to count on a continuation of her present
constellation.  Polls show neither her current coalition nor Steinbrueck’s
SPD and its traditional Green Party ally have enough support to
form a government. That has prompted speculation that a rerun of
her first-term grand coalition with the SPD is the most likely
outcome. No date has been set for the vote due in the fall.  Hypo Real  Steinbrueck served as Merkel’s finance minister at the
onset of the financial crisis in 2008. He stood beside her in
the Chancellery on Oct. 5 of that year to announce the
government would guarantee  bank deposits  to avoid a panic after
the near-collapse of Hypo Real Estate Holding AG.  Merkel “worked very closely” with Steinbrueck during her
first term, her chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, told reporters
today when asked to comment on a story in Bild newspaper that
Steinbrueck was planning to face her. Even so, she “has no
preference as far as her opponent is concerned.”  “It doesn’t matter to us which SPD man loses to Merkel,”
Hans Michelbach, a lawmaker from Merkel’s CSU Bavarian sister
party, said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Seventh Cavalry’  A former prime minister of Germany’s most populous state,
North Rhine-Westphalia, Steinbrueck accelerated efforts to stop
German  tax evasion  to  Switzerland  and sought to force the
revelation of names of account holders and provide access to
information. He threatened to put Switzerland on the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development list of
non-cooperative countries.  At the time, he equated the move to “having the Seventh
Cavalry in Fort Yuma that can be ordered to ride out but doesn’t
have to” do so. “The important thing is the Indians know it
exists.”  Steinbrueck’s role in Merkel’s Cabinet from 2005 to 2009
earned him political enemies. The anti-capitalist Left Party
reacted to news of his candidacy by saying that he was
responsible for spurring poverty among the elderly.  Within his own party, he lacks a political base, meaning
that “internal SPD cohesion will remain a huge problem,”
Techau said. “Steinbrueck’s batallions are small and weak. For
the party, he is a candidate of the head, not of the heart.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Crawford in Berlin at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  