-- Terry Faces $1.2 Million Legal Bill, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-09-28T07:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/terry-faces-1-2-million-legal-bill-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Terry’s Bill  Chelsea captain  John Terry  faces a bill of at least
770,000-pounds ($1.2 million) following his criminal trial and
Football Association hearing into the Anton Ferdinand racial
abuse case, the  Sun reported .  The F.A. yesterday suspended Terry for four games and fined
him 220,000 pounds for racially abusing Ferdinand in a Premier
League match last season. A London court on July 13 acquitted
Terry of racial abuse against Ferdinand.  Terry has run up 750,000 pounds in legal fees battling the
criminal and F.A. charges and will try to recoup 400,000 pounds
from the court case, the Sun said. He’s also liable to pay the
costs of the F.A. hearing, said to be at least 200,000 pounds,
the newspaper added.  Vidal Interest  Manchester United  is interested in signing Juventus
midfielder  Arturo Vidal , the  Daily Mirror reported .  Vidal, a 25-year-old Chile international, would cost about
40 million pounds and is also attracting interest from Real
Madrid and  Manchester City , the Mirror added.  Three-way Fight  Newcastle United  is in a three-way fight to sign  CSKA
Moscow  forward Seydou Doumbia, who’s rated at 16 million pounds
after scoring 26 goals for the Russian club last season, the
 Daily Mail reported .  The Magpies, who face competition from Napoli and Lazio,
have watched the Ivory Coast striker on three occasions, the
newspaper added.  Play Fair  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  said his team may be
losing out by not cheating to win free kicks and penalties, the
 Daily Telegraph reported .  “We like to think we are a sporting team, I have always
told my players to do the right thing, not to dive, to play
fair,” the Telegraph cited Rodgers as saying. “But the
fairness we show, it seems the decisions pass us by because of
it. There are so many decisions that have gone against us.”  Sherwood Snub  Tottenham Hotspur manager Andre Villas-Boas ruled out
technical coordinator Tim Sherwood being promoted to a director
of football role at the club, the  Daily Mail reported .  “In the way we want to build, I think (chairman)  Daniel Levy  sees Tim continuing as technical coordinator, working with
the development squad,” the Mail cited Villas-Boas as saying.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  