-- EU Agrees on Preliminary Carbon Auction Schedule From October
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-09-28T11:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/eu-agrees-on-preliminary-carbon-auction-schedule-from-october.html
Germany  will be the first European
Union country to start selling carbon allowances for the next
phase of the region’s emissions trading system in October, under
a preliminary calendar agreed by the bloc.  Germany, the EU’s biggest economy, will begin on Oct. 12
weekly auctions of permits for manufacturing plants and
utilities on the European Energy Exchange AG, the European
Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, said today in a  statement 
on its website.  The 27-nation EU is moving toward selling a greater
proportion of allowances, now mostly given to companies for
free, in the eight-year trading period starting in 2013, or the
so-called Phase 3. To smooth the transition and limit price
shocks, the EU agreed to auction a total of 120 million Phase 3
permits this year.  Germany, along with the U.K. and  Poland , decided to opt out
from a common platform to sell carbon. The 24  member states  that
chose to procure common infrastructure for their auctions
decided earlier this year to appoint EEX to conduct the sales.  “These auctions are expected to start by end-October,
while the precise start date remains to be confirmed,” the
commission said in the statement. “EEX, in its capacity as the
common auction platform, intends to conduct auctions of general
allowances on Tuesdays and Thursdays.”  The U.K., which appointed the ICE Futures Europe exchange
to carry out its carbon auctions, plans to sell Phase 3 permits
on Nov. 21 and Dec. 5, according to the commission.  Norway, Iceland  Poland, which hasn’t started a tender for its own
auctioning venue yet, will sell allowances on the common
platform, the commission said. Norway and  Iceland , which
participate in the bloc’s emissions cap-and-trade program, also
plan to use the EEX, according to the commission.  “For auctioning on EEX, it is a prerequisite that the
respective auctioneers are admitted to EEX and recognized by
EEX’s clearing house,” it said. “If not ready in time for the
first auction, the volumes of allowances for the member states
concerned will be added as soon as all conditions are met.”  The EU will also start this year selling a proportion of
allowances for airlines, which became part of the ETS this year.  Under the preliminary calendar, Germany plans auctions of
aviation allowances on Oct. 17 and Nov. 14 and the U.K. will
sell permits for airlines on Nov. 26 and Dec. 10. Countries
using the EEX as their common platform will sell aviation
allowances “mostly on Wednesdays and some on Mondays,”
according to the commission.  General Allowances  “The final auction calendars for 2012 remain to be
determined formally,” it said. “ICE can do so only after the
approval procedure for the U.K. platform has been completed.
This is expected for early November.”  From 2013, EEX in its capacity as the common platform plans
to continue weekly auctions of permits for manufacturers and
utilities, known as general allowances, on Tuesdays and
Thursdays and will hold weekly sales for Germany once a week on
Friday, the commission said.  ICE intends to auction general allowances for the U.K.
every two weeks, on Wednesday mornings, according to the
preliminary calendar.  Both ICE and EEX would conduct sales of aviation permits
“on certain other Wednesday mornings,” the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  