-- Euro-Area Inflation Unexpectedly Accelerates on Spain: Economy
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-09-28T10:38:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/euro-region-inflation-unexpectedly-accelerated-in-september.html
Euro-area inflation unexpectedly
accelerated in September after the Spanish government increased
sales tax to help plug its budget gap, driving prices up the
most in 17 months.
      Consumer prices in the 17-nation  euro region increased 2.7
percent from a year earlier after a 2.6 percent gain in August,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said in a
flash estimate today. The median forecast of 40 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for the rate to fall to 2.4 percent.  Spain raised the main rate of value-added tax to 21 percent
from 18 percent on Sept. 1, spurring its inflation rate to 3.5
percent, even as the country endured the highest unemployment
rate in the EU. Italian inflation also unexpectedly quickened on
higher energy prices and the end of post-summer retail
discounts. Energy costs rose 9.2 percent in the euro area in
September.  “Higher energy prices have had a marginal effect on
inflation in September, but we expect most of the upward
surprise to be explained by one-off factors” in so-called
peripheral euro-area countries, Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income
analyst at Newedge Group in  London , wrote in a note to clients.  Inflation has stayed above the European Central Bank’s
target of slightly less than 2 percent for almost two years even
as the economy has faltered. ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny and Executive Board member Benoit Coeure have suggested
the Frankfurt-based central bank probably won’t lower interest
rates at its next meeting on Oct. 4.  Scope for Easing  “Underlying inflation pressures remain muted in most parts
of the euro-zone economy,” said Martin van Vliet, an economist
at ING Bank in Amsterdam. “This gives the ECB scope to ease
monetary policy further.”  “Although the ECB looks set to keep interest rates hold
next week -- the hawks on the Governing Council will probably
use the increase in inflation as ammunition to argue against
further interest rate action -- there is still a decent chance
it will cut rates once more before the end of this year,” Van
Vliet said.  The cost of non-energy industrial goods and services rose
0.8 percent and 2 percent in September, respectively, today’s
report showed. Prices of food, alcohol and tobacco increased 2.9
percent after a 3 percent gain in August.  The economic gloom extended to Asia, where Japanese and
South Korean industrial production fell more than economists
estimated last month as slowdowns in  China  and  Europe  weighed on
exports, building the case for more monetary easing.  U.S. Consumer Spending  Japan ’s output fell 1.3 percent from July, the biggest
decline in three months, a Trade Ministry report showed in  Tokyo 
today. South Korean production slid 0.7 percent, partly on a
strike at Hyundai Motor Co.  In the U.S., consumer spending probably stagnated in August
after adjusting for inflation, showing the U.S. economic
expansion is struggling to gain momentum, economists said before
a report today.  Household purchases rose 0.5 percent after increasing 0.4
percent in July, according to the median estimate of 77
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The report may also show the
gain reflected a 0.5 percent jump in prices, the biggest since
June 2009.  ECB President Mario Draghi on Sept. 6 unveiled details of
an unlimited bond-purchase program, dubbed Outright Monetary
Transactions, designed to regain control of interest rates in
the euro area and fight speculation of a currency breakup.  ECB Forecast  Data yesterday showed economic confidence in the euro area
unexpectedly fell in September as leaders strived to rein in the
debt crisis in the single-currency bloc and the economy’s slump
deepened.  The ECB has cut its forecast for economic growth and raised
its forecast for inflation. In 2013,  the economy  will expand 0.5
percent rather than the 1 percent forecast in June. At the same
time, the ECB raised its projection for inflation next year to
1.9 percent from 1.6 percent.  Draghi said this month that “owing to high energy prices
and increases in indirect taxes in some euro-area countries,
inflation rates are expected to remain above 2 percent
throughout 2012.” Over the medium term, the outlook for
inflation was “broadly balanced,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  