-- European Stocks Decline to Lowest in Three Weeks
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-09-28T16:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/europe-stock-futures-rise-on-spanish-french-budget-plans.html
European stocks  fell to a three-
week low, trimming a quarterly gain for the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, as investors awaited the results of stress
tests on the Spanish banking system.  Hennes & Mauritz AB declined 1.7 percent after SEB AB and
CA Cheuvreux SA advised investors to sell the shares.
 Electrocomponents Plc (ECM)  plunged the most in more than seven years
after saying full-year profit will miss projections.  Cap Gemini
SA (CAP)  rose 0.8 percent after  Accenture Plc  forecast full-year
earnings that topped analyst estimates. Air France-KLM gained
4.6 percent after UBS AG upgraded the shares.  The Stoxx 600 lost 1.2 percent to 268.48 at the close of
trading in London, the lowest since Sept. 5, as investors
awaited the stress-test report from  Oliver Wyman , a New York-
based management consulting firm. The gauge, which lost 2.7
percent this week, has still rallied 6.9 percent this quarter as
global central banks expanded stimulus.  “We’ve seen a fairly tight Spanish budget, we have a tax
raising budget out of  France ,” said  Peter Dixon , global
equities economist at Commerzbank AG in London. “The very fact
that you have yet another stress test coming out of  Spain 
looking at the banks suggests that some of the issues markets
have been concerned about in the last year are still alive.”  Stress Tests  Spain will release the results of the banking stress tests
today after the European markets close. The independent tests on
14 banking groups help in assessing the damage caused to their
balance sheets by the country’s real-estate crisis and are a
condition for the 100 billion-euro bailout agreed in July.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s Cabinet yesterday approved a
new tax on lottery winnings and a cut in ministries’ spending to
shrink the euro area’s third-biggest budget deficit. The
government set a 2013 target of 4.5 percent of gross domestic
product, compared with a 6.3 percent goal for this year.  The Cabinet also approved using a pension reserve fund to
meet an increase in retirement payments, Deputy Prime Minister
Soraya Saenz de Santamaria told reporters in  Madrid  before
markets closed yesterday.  In France, President  Francois Hollande ’s first annual
budget raised taxes by 20 billion euros ($26 billion), including
a 75 percent levy on incomes above 1 million euros. He aims to
reduce the deficit to 3 percent of GDP from 4.5 percent in 2012.  “The market’s view is that a tax raising budget is never
good for growth,” said Dixon. “France is a large part of the
 euro zone  and is already struggling under a number of burdens
and growth isn’t particularly strong.”  German Retail  In  Germany ,  retail sales  increased 0.3 percent in August
from a month earlier, after falling a revised 1 percent in July,
according to a Bundesbank report. Economists in a Bloomberg
survey had called for a 0.2 percent gain.  National benchmark indexes declined in 16 of the 18
western-European markets. Germany’s DAX slid 1 percent, while
the U.K.’s FTSE 100 dropped 0.7 percent. France’s CAC 40 lost
2.5 percent, dropping to its lowest level since Aug. 2.  H&M (HMB)  lost 1.7 percent to 228.20 kronor, falling for a third
day. SEB and Cheuvreux downgraded the stock to sell or an
equivalent recommendation, while Swedbank and Nordea Bank AB cut
the shares to hold or a similar rating. Europe’s second-largest
retailer reported on Sept. 27 third-quarter profit that missed
analyst estimates.  Electrocomponents tumbled 8.8 percent to 200.30 pence, the
sharpest decline since March 2005, after the company said full-
year pretax profit will be “slightly below” the lower end of
analyst estimates of between 110 million pounds ($179 million)
and 120 million pounds.  LSE Uncertainty  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  plunged 8 percent to 943
pence, the sharpest decline since April 2009, after saying
proposed European Union regulations will cut income at its
Italian central counterparty and may require LCH.Clearnet Group
Ltd. to boost capital.  LSE agreed to buy a majority stake in LCH.Clearnet,
Europe’s biggest clearinghouse, for 463 million euros in March
to expand its post-trade services. LCH.Clearnet said in a
separate statement today that it will need to boost capital by
300 million euros to 375 million euros to comply with the new
regulations.  Cap Gemini  rose 0.8 percent to 32.93 euros, paring an
earlier gain of as much as 2.9 percent. Accenture, the world’s
second-largest technology-consulting company, said earnings for
the fiscal year ending in August 2013 will be $4.22 to $4.30 a
share, beating the median analyst estimate of $4.13.  Air France-KLM (AF)  jumped 4.6 percent to 5.04 euros after UBS
AG raised its rating on the shares to buy from neutral. The
airlines has implemented some key restructuring measures that
will help the “pricing environment” and reduce the number of
loss-making flights, UBS said in a note.  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  added 1.3 percent to 351.50 Swiss francs after
HSBC raised its rating on the shares to overweight, the
equivalent of buy, from neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  