-- European Stocks Post Biggest Weekly Decline Since June
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-09-28T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/european-stocks-post-biggest-weekly-decline-since-june.html
European stocks posted their
biggest weekly decline since June as concern that the latest
round of bond buying in the U.S. will fail to encourage growth
offset speculation  China  may announce further stimulus measures.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  led automakers lower after forecasting
tougher business conditions for the second half.  Fomento de
Construccion & Contratas  plunged 15 percent, pacing a drop in
Spanish construction companies.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  slid
after predicting sales and profitability will decline.  Telekom
Austria AG (TKA)  sank after cutting its dividend.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 2.7 percent to
268.48 this week. The benchmark measure has still advanced 6.9
percent this  quarter  as European Central Bank policy makers
approved a plan to buy the bonds of the most-indebted members of
the euro area. The index added 0.9 percent in September, for a
fourth straight monthly gain.  “There are elements of political risk,” said Guillaume Duchesne, an equity strategist at BGL BNP Paribas SA in
Luxembourg. “Fundamentals remain weak and there is still
pressure on economic growth. We have a rather negative
outlook.”  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia President  Charles Plosser  said on Sept. 25 that the Fed’s latest round of
quantitative easing may jeopardize the central bank’s
credibility. The  Federal Open Market Committee  said on Sept. 13
that it will buy mortgage-backed securities at a pace of $40
billion per month until the labor market improves.  China Stimulus  A report on Sept. 27 showed China’s industrial profits fell
for a fifth month in August, increasing speculation the
government will do more to support economic growth. China may
further cut banks’ reserve requirements or  interest rates  if
external demand worsens, Chen Yulu, an academic adviser to the
People’s Bank of China, told reporters in Beijing.  Spain’s cabinet on Sept. 27 approved the budget for 2013.
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has vowed to cut the deficit by at
least 18 billion euros ($23.1 billion) next year, defying tens
of thousands of demonstrators who fought with police in Madrid
this week to demand the premier reverse course and resign.  Rajoy is struggling to persuade European peers, voters and
investors that he can tackle the crisis. Spanish bond yields
surpassed 6 percent this week amid rising investor uncertainty
over whether he will ask for external aid.  FCC led Spanish construction companies lower. The builder
plunged 15 percent this week, while  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV)  sank
14 percent.  Acciona SA (ANA) , a renewable energy and water provider,
tumbled 13 percent.  U.S. Data  Business activity in the U.S. unexpectedly contracted in
September for the first time in three years, adding to signs
manufacturing will contribute less to the economic recovery.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said on
Friday that its  business barometer  fell to 49.7 this month from
53 in August. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction.  A separate report from the Commerce Department this week
showed that total orders for durable goods, those meant to last
at least three years, plunged 13 percent in August, the most
since January 2009. Another report showed the world’s largest
economy grew less in the second quarter than previously
forecast. The economy expanded at a 1.3 percent pace after
growing at a 2 percent rate from January through March.  National benchmark indexes declined in all of Europe’s 18
western markets. France’s CAC 40 Index dropped 5 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index fell 1.9 percent, and Germany’s DAX Index
retreated 3.2 percent.  Carmakers Decline  Stoxx 600 automakers fell 6.3 percent this week, for the
biggest decline among the 19 industry  groups  on the index.  Volkswagen’s preferred shares slid 4.8 percent. Market
conditions have become “noticeably harder and tougher,” Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said on Sept. 25.  PSA Peugeot Citroen, the region’s second-largest carmaker,
decreased 5.4 percent. Fiat SpA, the Italian automaker that
controls Chrysler Group LLC, fell 7.6 percent.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest auto-parts maker,
sank 8.9 percent in its first week back in the benchmark DAX
Index after being reinstated following a 45-month absence.  Infineon, Europe’s second-biggest semiconductor maker, lost
12 percent. The company on Sept. 25 said  revenue  in the three
months through December will drop as much as 10 percent from the
previous quarter while operating profit will decline to between
5 percent and 7 percent of sales from almost 12 percent as
clients cut spending amid the economic slowdown.  Telekom Austria  Telekom Austria , the phone operator partly controlled by
 Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, sank 14 percent. The company on
Sept. 24 cut its  dividend  forecast for this year to 0.05 euros
per share from 0.38 euros because  cash flow  will be lower than
expected. The former Austrian phone monopoly had initially
planned to pay 0.76 euros a share for 2012, before halving its
guidance on Dec. 16.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  tumbled 12 percent.
Europe’s oldest independent bourse said new European Union
regulations will cut income at its Italian central counterparty
and may require LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. to boost capital.  Recommendations published on Sept. 27 by the European
Securities and Markets Authority proposed that 95 percent of a
clearinghouse’s cash deposits placed with financial institutions
must be collateralized with debt instruments meeting certain
conditions regarding liquidity as well as credit and market
risk, LSE said.  Qinetiq Group Plc (QQ/)  jumped 10 percent. The technology and
research company said on Sept. 24 that a stronger-than-forecast
first-half performance should help it meet analysts’
expectations for the full year.  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, Europe’s biggest airline, rallied 5.1
percent. UBS AG on Sept. 28 raised the stock to  buy  from
neutral. The chief executive officer is focused on the change
program, the government seems supportive and it has already
implemented some key restructuring measures, UBS said in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 