-- Ex-SAC Analyst Horvath Pleads Guilty in U.S. Insider Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-09-28T19:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/ex-sac-analyst-said-to-plan-guilty-plea-in-insider-case.html
Jon Horvath, a former technology
analyst at a unit of  Steven Cohen ’s $14 billion hedge fund SAC
Capital Advisors LP, pleaded guilty to passing nonpublic
information to his portfolio manager, who traded on the tips.  Horvath, 42, pleaded guilty today before U.S. District
Judge Richard Sullivan in  Manhattan  to one count of conspiracy
to commit  securities fraud  and two counts of securities fraud.
Horvath, who is cooperating with the U.S. probe and may testify
against his former co-defendants, faces a maximum of 45 years in
prison, the judge said. Horvath, a Swedish citizen, could face
deportation, Sullivan said.  The plea comes days after it was revealed that Michael Steinberg, a hedge fund manager at SAC Capital’s Sigma Capital
Management Ltd. and Horvath’s former supervisor, is an
unindicted co-conspirator in the $62 million  insider-trading 
scheme tied to technology stocks, according to two people
familiar with the matter. Horvath didn’t name Steinberg or Sigma
Capital today, saying that he worked as an analyst at a
Manhattan hedge fund from 2006 to 2011 and passed illegal tips
to the portfolio manager who supervised him.  “I was part of a group of analysts who agreed to obtain
and share information about public companies,” Horvath said
today during his plea. “Some of the information I received was
material nonpublic information which I knew came from public
company employees and I knew they were not permitted to disclose
or share with outsiders.”  Dell, Nvidia  Horvath, of  San Francisco , told the judge that he and his
co-conspirators obtained material nonpublic information on  Dell
Inc. (DELL)  in August 2008 and about  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  in May 2009 from
insiders at the two technology companies.  “In each instance I provided the information to the
portfolio manager I worked for and we executed trades in the
stocks based on that information,” he said.  Horvath is the 69th person to plead guilty or be convicted
after trial of insider trading since August 2009. A total of 72
people have been charged with insider trading as part of a law
enforcement initiative by Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara’s office and agents with the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation’s  New York  office.  Steinberg, 40, of SAC’s Sigma Capital Management unit, has
worked at the hedge fund since 1997 and is the fifth person to
be tied to insider trading while employed at SAC’s Sigma. His
lawyer, Barry Berke, declined to comment about Horvath’s guilty
plea. Steve Peikin, Horvath’s defense lawyer, declined to
comment as he left court with his client. Sullivan set a
tentative sentencing date of March 31.  ‘Criminal Club’  “Until today, Mr. Horvath maintained he had not violated
the law and we gave him the benefit of the presumption of
innocence,” SAC said in a statement issued after the plea
today. “We are disappointed and angered to learn Mr. Horvath
admittedly violated the law and SAC’s policies forbidding
insider trading. We expect our employees to have integrity, play
by the rules and follow the letter and spirit of the law.”  Horvath faced trial Oct. 29 along with two other portfolio
managers for his part in what Bharara called a “criminal
club”: a conspiracy of hedge fund managers, co-workers and
company insiders who reaped millions of dollars on illegal tips
about Dell and Nvidia.  Horvath and his co-defendants, Level Global Investors LP
co-founder Anthony Chiasson and ex-Diamondback Capital
Management LLC portfolio manager  Todd Newman , were accused of
participating in a conspiracy with other portfolio managers,
analysts and insiders at technology firms who swapped tips from
2007 to 2009.  Trading Ring  The men were first charged in January, as part of an
alleged insider-trading ring. Five people who were part of the
group have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the
government.  Steinberg’s alleged role was revealed in a letter from
prosecutors that Sullivan unsealed on Sept. 21.  “The government added four additional co-conspirators,”
prosecutors wrote in a Sept. 6 letter filed with the court, with
the names blacked out. One of them, the U.S. said, is “the
portfolio manager to whom Jon Horvath reported at his hedge
fund.” That person was Steinberg, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to comment
on the court filing.  Revised Indictment  The government filed a revised indictment against Horvath,
Chiasson and Newman on Aug. 28, adding an additional securities
fraud count against all three men for alleged insider-trading
involving  Santa Clara , California-based Nvidia.  The government, in a memo to defense lawyers, said it
identified 12 co-conspirators, including Horvath, Newman and
Chiasson. In an Aug. 29 filing, prosecutors added four
additional co-conspirators whose identities were redacted in
publicly-filed court papers, including Steinberg.  Assistant U.S. Attorneys Antonia Apps and Richard Tarlowe
had notified defense lawyers in an August memo that they had
additional evidence that Newman, Chiasson and Horvath attempted
to or did obtain material nonpublic information about 11 more
stocks not listed in the indictment, including  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD) ; Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.;  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN) ;  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)   Greg Morvillo, a lawyer for Chiasson, and John Nathanson,
an attorney for Newman, didn’t immediately return phone calls
seeking comment about their clients and about Horvath’s plea.  New Evidence  Peikin this month lost a bid to delay Horvath’s trial until
January based on new evidence offered by prosecutors and a
superseding indictment filed in August that added an additional
charge of securities fraud against the three men. The judge
rejected that request and ordered the trial to proceed as
scheduled.  In addition to Horvath, two other former SAC fund managers,
Noah Freeman and Donald Longueuil, pleaded guilty last year to
securities fraud for insider trading. Freeman has been
cooperating with Bharara’s office and agents of the FBI in New
York in their five-year insider probe dubbed “ Perfect Hedge .”  At last year’s insider-trading trial of former Primary
Global Research LLC consultant Winifred Jiau, Freeman testified
he traded on illegal tips on at least 18 occasions while at SAC
Capital and at Sonar Capital Management LLC.  Freeman also testified that he, Longueuil and Sam Barai,
founder of New York-based Barai Capital Management LP, obtained
material, nonpublic information from technology company
insiders, including Jiau, then traded on the information.
Longueuil was sentenced to 30 months in prison.  Pending Takeover  Last April, former SAC analyst Jonathan Hollander agreed to
settle U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission allegations that
he traded on inside information about a pending takeover of the
Albertson’s LLC grocery chain.  The SEC alleged that Hollander tipped others about the
acquisition and that he and others earned $95,807 in illegal
profits. Hollander, who was trading in his personal account,
agreed to pay more than $222,000, said his lawyer,  Aitan Goelman .  SAC Capital and Cohen haven’t been charged with any
wrongdoing.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  