-- F&N’s Hui Says Cooperation With Kirin, ThaiBev ‘Possible’
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-09-28T09:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/f-n-s-hui-says-cooperation-with-kirin-thaibev-possible-.html
Hui Choon Kit, financial controller
of  Fraser and Neave Ltd. (FNN) , comments on the results of the
company’s shareholder meeting today.  F&N shareholders approved the company’s sale of its 40
percent stake in  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)  to  Heineken NV. (HEIA) 
They voted against F&N’s plan to distribute S$4 billion ($3.2
billion) to shareholders from the sale to Heineken.  Hui spoke at a media briefing in Singapore today.  On working with  Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) :  “They being in the same business presents both
opportunities and challenges. While we could look to work
together and synergies, we may in other areas also be competing
so we do need to sit down and discuss the way forward with them.  ‘‘Clearly there are opportunities. If both sides can
combine our resources to look at certain areas and the business
model does make sense, then there could be opportunities for us
to work together.’’  On Kirin Holdings Co. and ThaiBev being shareholders of F&N:  ‘‘It’s possible that we could have a very interesting
cooperation between the various parties. Alternatively, there
could be a lot of conflicts going on, and then it would prevent
us from realizing the potential of the F&N business.’’  On growing its property business:  ‘‘We are building new commercial as well as retail space
which will be earmarked into future injections into our REITs.’’  ‘‘We will be looking to replenish our stock in Singapore so
as to build a very strong business in Singapore, while
delivering projects in Australia and China.’’  On a hospitality REIT:  ‘‘There have been discussions with the recent launches of
hospitality REITs, Ascendas as well as Far East. That’s
something that’s on the drawing board, as in we’re considering
whether it makes sense for us, but there are no immediate
plans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  