-- Falcone’s LightSquared Asks to Share Airwaves for Service
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-09-28T19:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/falcone-s-lightsquared-asks-to-share-u-s-airwaves-for-service.html
Philip Falcone ’s bankrupt
LightSquared Inc., in an attempt to revive a planned wireless
network stymied by interference concerns, asked U.S. regulators
to let it share airwaves with federal-government users.  The request was filed today with the Federal Communications
Commission, Michael Tucker, a spokesman for the Reston,
Virginia-based company, said in an e-mailed statement.  The company also told the FCC it would give up the right to
some operations in airwaves near those used by the global-
positioning system. The FCC blocked the service in February
after GPS-device makers and users -- including the U.S. military
and commercial airlines -- said signals from LightSquared’s
service would confound navigation gear.  LightSquared filed for bankruptcy in May and said it
intends to resolve the interference concerns. LightSquared can’t
deploy its service while the FCC decides whether to revoke
initial approvals, as it proposed doing in February, the agency
 told Congress Sept. 21 . The agency hasn’t yet taken final
action.  Makers and users of GPS equipment in a March filing at the
FCC said there are “no feasible mitigation measures” to
prevent interference from LightSquared. In today’s proposal,
LightSquared asked the FCC to allow it to share frequencies used
by weather balloons and weather satellites.  The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration is the
dominant user of the frequencies, Larry Strickling,
administrator of the National Telecommunications and Information
Administration, said in a July 2010  speech .  No Conclusions  U.S. officials were examining whether the airwaves swath
could be shared with commercial users and hadn’t drawn any
conclusions, said Strickling, whose agency oversees federal
airwaves use.  “We are aware of LightSquared’s interest in sharing,”
Heather Phillips, a spokeswoman for the NTIA, said in an e-
mailed statement. “If requested by the FCC, NTIA will work with
NOAA to evaluate LightSquared’s request.”  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment.  U.S. officials who manage frequency assignments
increasingly are considering sharing arrangements, as airwaves
become crowded with new uses. Letting others share parts of the
spectrum now set aside for federal agencies could help meet
surging demand from wireless smartphones and other mobile
devices offered by commercial carriers, a White House advisory
panel said in July.  Lenders holding more than $1 billion in LightSquared debt
have challenged the control of Falcone, 50, whose hedge fund has
invested about $3 billion in the company.  Regulatory Reversal  Falcone’s strategy of seeking a regulatory reversal is a
“high-risk, high-return strategy” the lenders said in a Sept.
6 filing. They recommended instead that the company be sold.  The hedge fund, New York-based Harbinger Capital Partners,
managed $4 billion at the end of last year, down from a peak of
$26 billion in mid-2008. It wrote down its LightSquared position
by 59 percent last year.  The company’s bankruptcy filing listed assets of $4.48
billion and debt of $2.29 billion as of Feb. 29.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net  or
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  