-- Fed’s George Says Dodd-Frank Won’t Avert Bank Bailouts
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-09-28T06:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/fed-s-george-says-dodd-frank-won-t-avert-bank-bailouts.html
Kansas City Federal Reserve
President Esther George said the overhaul of financial
regulation under the Dodd-Frank Act has made oversight too
complex while failing to end taxpayer bailouts of banks.  “Rather than adding regulation, we could better align
incentives by allowing stockholders, unsecured creditors and
bank management to bear full responsibility for losses incurred
by their institutions,” George said today in a speech in
Beijing. Regulators must have “resolve” to let creditors and
shareholders lose money when institutions fail, she said.  Dodd-Frank, the most comprehensive rewriting of financial
regulation since the 1930s, subjected the largest banks to more
scrutiny and higher capital requirements. The law requires large
banks to draft contingency plans detailing how they would be
unwound in a crisis and created a financial-stability council
charged with monitoring excessive risk-taking.  “The Dodd-Frank Act itself is full of complexity” and its
“mandated rule-making by some estimates could run to as much as
30,000 pages,” George said in the text of a speech to the
Financial Stability Institute and China Banking Regulatory
Commission. “The complexity inherent in these standards
continues to give the most sophisticated financial companies
considerable opportunities to arbitrage the process,” she said.  Strict leverage ratios, which are not adjusted based on
perceived risks of various assets, are a better way than risk-
adjusted capital ratios to ensure financial stability, George
said. In addition, “there is no substitute” for experienced
examiners, she said.  George was the Kansas City Fed’s No. 2 official under
Thomas Hoenig, who retired last year. She didn’t discuss
monetary policy in her remarks. George joined the Fed in 1982,
spent much of her career in bank supervision and became first
vice president in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  