-- Fed Discount Window Loans Cushioned Small Banks in 2010
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   P h i l   K u n t z
-- 2012-09-28T20:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/fed-discount-window-loans-cushioned-small-banks-in-2010.html
Small banks based in towns ranging
from Munich,  North Dakota , to Cairo,  Georgia , were among
borrowers from the  Federal Reserve ’s discount window during the
third quarter of 2010, the Fed showed in the first release of
once-secret loan data as required under the Dodd-Frank Act.  The transactions occurred as the  U.S. economy  completed a
year of growth following the worst recession since the Great
Depression. Unemployment averaged 9.5 percent in the third
quarter of 2010, and the Fed was preparing to announce in
November a second round of bond-buying known as quantitative
easing to spur the recovery and revive the job market. The
release covers the period from July 22, 2010, to Sept. 30, 2010.  The third-quarter 2010 borrowing levels show a steep
decline in the discount window’s use after the financial crisis.
So-called primary credit loans outstanding on Sept. 29, 2010
totaled $99 million, compared with a record $110.7 billion on
Oct. 29, 2008, as banks sought cash after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in September that year.  The discount window is the Fed’s main tool for providing
cash to banks that run into temporary funding shortfalls. The
loans are fully collateralized and made by the Fed system’s 12
reserve banks.  The Fed has three categories of loans. Primary credit is
for healthy banks with short-term funding needs. Secondary
credit is for troubled banks, and seasonal credit is for banks
that have uneven funding flows. The Dodd Frank Act of 2010
required disclosure of discount window loans with a two-year
lag.  Rapid Decline  Primary credit began to decrease rapidly as the Dodd-Frank
Act became law on July 21, 2010.  Discount window  loans to
healthy banks fell from $19 billion in the first week of January
2010 to $4.2 billion at the end of May to just $26 million at
the end of July.  On a conference call with reporters today, Fed officials
said reserve bank officers advised borrowers that the loans
would be made public once Dodd Frank was enacted. The officials
spoke on condition they not be identified.  One of the largest borrowers was Gorham Savings Bank, from
Gorham,  Maine , according to the data. The bank took out a loan
of $70 million on Aug. 5, 2010, in the largest single amount
during the period. The bank had $136 million in collateral,
after haircuts, that included commercial real estate loans and
U.S. Treasury and agency securities.  Loan Repaid  The Fed said the loan was repaid the next day, and it was
listed as “primary credit,” meaning the bank was deemed a
well-capitalized and sound institution by the Fed discount
window officer.  Dan Hunter, Gorham’s chief financial officer, said in a
telephone interview the bank used the discount window “in the
normal course of business” to aid with securities settlement.
The loan was a “clean and simple way” to facilitate a
transaction, he said, and to test the bank’s access to Fed
credit.  The loan data showed that 80 percent of the credits given
to banks were repaid within five days during the period.  The Fed has never voluntarily released information on the
discount window out of concern that disclosure would keep banks
away from the facility.  “Banks were reluctant to rely on discount window credit to
address their funding needs,” Bernanke said in an April 3,
2009, speech describing how the Fed used its tools during the
crisis. “The banks’ concern was that their recourse to the
discount window, if it became known, might lead market
participants to infer weakness -- the so-called stigma
problem.”  First Time  The Fed in March 2011 released discount-window loan
documents for the first time after court orders upheld Freedom
of Information Act requests filed by Bloomberg LP, the parent
company of  Bloomberg News , and News Corp.’s Fox News Network
LLC. In all, the Fed released more than 29,000 pages of
documents, covering the discount window and several Fed
emergency-lending programs established during the crisis from
August 2007 to March 2010 as a result of the FOIA requests.  The loan data showed the biggest borrowers from the Fed’s
backstop during the crisis-era peak were foreign banks,
accounting for at least 70 percent of the $110.7 billion
borrowed during the final week of October 2008.  The Monetary Control Act of 1980 says that a U.S. branch or
agency of a foreign bank that maintains reserves at a Fed bank
may receive discount-window credit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Kuntz in  New York  at 
 pkuntz1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  