-- Finland May Phase Out Coal Use in Power by 2025, Minister Says
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2012-09-28T11:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/finland-may-phase-out-coal-use-in-power-by-2025-minister-says.html
Finland  may phase out the use of
coal in energy production by 2025, the first European country to
do so, Economy Minister Jyri Haekaemies  said .  “I think we could set a target for Finland phasing out
coal use as the first country in  Europe , for instance by 2025,”
Haekaemies said yesterday, according to minutes from a
parliamentary debate published on Parliament’s website.  Government subsidies and taxes seek to boost the use of
renewable energy and cut fossil fuel use by 2020, according to
the national  climate and energy strategy  drawn up by the former
government in 2008. The policy document will be revised and
updated by the end of this year, Haekaemies said.  “Investments into renewable energy will play a key role”
in the updated policy, he said. “All the imported energy which
we can replace with domestic energy sources not only creates
jobs, but also cuts emissions and improves our current
account.”  Finland imports all of its coal, mainly from Russia and
 Poland . During the past 15 years, Finland has shipped in an
average of 5 million metric tons of coal annually. Imports of
the mineral cost 70 million to more than 300 million euros ($388
million), according to the Finnish Coal Info association’s
 website .  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V) , Finland’s biggest power producer, operates the
country’s largest coal-fired station, the 920-megawatt Inkoo
plant on the south coast. It also has a share in the 565-
megawatt  Meri-Pori  plant on the west coast. It was commissioned
in 1994 and is one of the cleanest and most effective coal-fired
power plants in the world, according to the company’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  