-- For-Profit Colleges Beat Peers on Loan Breaks: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2012-09-28T18:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/for-profit-colleges-beat-peers-on-loan-breaks-corporate-brazil.html
Anhanguera Educacional
Participacoes SA (AEDU3) ,  Brazil ’s largest for-profit university, and
its two biggest Brazilian competitors are beating global peers
after  student loans  tripled when the government reduced  interest
rates  and made repayment easier.  Estacio Participacoes SA (ESTC3) , the third-biggest provider by
market value, posted a total return of 91 percent this year, the
most of 32 global for-profit colleges, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based  Kroton Educacional
SA (KROT3)  boasts a total return of 84 percent, and Anhanguera has
returned 64 percent. That compares with an average negative
return of 30 percent for 15 U.S. college stocks.  For-profit universities in Brazil are benefiting as rising
incomes and greater access to credit boost demand for higher
education in  Latin America ’s largest economy, where fewer than 1
in every 10 Brazilians has a college degree. More students are
turning to online courses and night classes at private
institutions as some state-run universities accept fewer
students than Ivy-League schools including  Princeton University 
in  New Jersey .  The government’s improved student-loan program “was a big
game changer for these companies,” Luiz Fernando Azevedo, an
analyst at brokerage Bradesco Corretora, said by telephone from
 Sao Paulo . “It not only helps in attracting middle-class
students who know a college education is key to a better future,
but it also helps to keep them inside the classrooms.”  $3.45 Billion Loans  The number of student loans granted this year under the
Education Ministry’s Fies program has  tripled  to 305,800 since
2010, when the government released rules cutting interest rates
and extending the time to start repaying debt to 18 months after
graduation from six months. Rates charged on government student
loans fell to 3.4 percent a year from as much as 9 percent.
About 33 percent of Kroton’s students have Fies loans, compared
with as much as 12 percent at Estacio and 12 percent at
Anhanguera, according to interviews with the companies’
executives.  Estacio fell 0.7 percent to 33.77 reais at 3:43 p.m. in Sao
Paulo trading, while Anhanguera climbed 2.8 percent to 33.94
reais and Kroton gained 2.9 percent to 34.88 reais.  Banco do Brasil SA (BBAS3) , which handles the loans along with
fellow state-run bank Caixa Economica Federal, said its Fies
portfolio more than doubled to 7 billion reais ($3.45 billion)
this year from 3.1 billion reais in 2011, according to the
bank’s press office. The National Fund for Education
Development, which operates the Fies program, distributed 2.28
billion reais in loans in 2012, according to the agency’s press
office.  Swelling Debt  Student loans are rising along with consumer borrowing.
Consumer loans, carrying an average 30.1 percent annual interest
rate, rose 15 percent to 560 billion reais in the 12 months
through August, central bank data show. Delinquency rates have
also climbed, reaching 7.9 percent in August.  Higher delinquency rates are the main risk for private
educational institutions, according to analysts.  “Economists expect Brazil to accelerate again next year,
which should help to sustain income levels and push unemployment
down, but when analyzing education spending it’s necessary to
consider a broader period of time, because we don’t know what’s
going to happen in three or four years,” said Miguel Ribeiro de
Oliveira, president of Anefac, a financial sector association.  ‘Heated Growth’  For-profit universities in the U.S. are facing increased
scrutiny from lawmakers, the  Justice Department  and state
attorneys general amid complaints recruiters pressure students
to enroll and dodge questions about the full cost of the
programs. A Senate report released July 29 found that the
schools spend more on marketing than instruction and devote more
staff to recruiting students than ensuring the success of their
existing ones.  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , the biggest U.S. for-profit university,
has plunged 46 percent this year, while second-biggest  DeVry
Inc. (DV)  lost 41 percent and  Grand Canyon Education Inc. (LOPE)  rose 46
percent. The companies didn’t immediately return Bloomberg’s e-
mails requesting comment.  “We’re in a phase of heated growth, while the U.S. is
going through regulatory difficulties,” Kroton Chief Financial
Officer Frederico Brito e Abreu said in an interview yesterday
at the Latin Finance Forum in Sao Paulo. “Brazil had a complete
mismatch between supply and demand. There was a huge part of the
public that couldn’t gain access” to higher education.  The expansion of loans in Brazil coincides with a surging
middle class. Brazilians earning at least 1,064 reais a month
accounted for 56 percent of the population in 2011, up from 50
percent in 2009, according to the center of social policies of
the Getulio Vargas Foundation.  Acceptance Rates  Meanwhile, the nation’s free public universities are
struggling to expand fast enough to meet demand. Government
schools offered spots to only 27 percent of the 53.8 million
people who attended college in 2011, data from the Brazilian
Institute of Geography and Statistics show.  USP, the state university in Sao Paulo that ranks 169th in
U.S. News and World Report’s list of the 400 Best Universities,
accepted only 7.4 percent of the 146,892 students who applied
last year. Princeton accepted 7.9 percent of its applicants for
its 2012 freshman class, and  Columbia University  offered spots
to 7.4 percent of its applicants.  Under-Investment  “Under-investment and a lack of planning in education by
the Brazilian government is positive for private universities --
it means more room to grow,” Sandra Peres, an analyst at
brokerage Coinvalores, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “Social
mobility is a direct result of the country’s growth, with higher
average incomes and lower unemployment. The kids of people who
didn’t have many opportunities before now understand that
education is the way to build a successful career.”  Kroton, backed by private-equity firm Advent International
Corp., is counting on its 1.3 billion-real acquisition of
Unopar, Brazil’s largest distance-learning institution, to fuel
growth. The company may make more acquisitions next year, Carlos Lazar, Kroton’s investor relations director, said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo.  Estacio plans to to expand through acquisitions of
institutions with less than 10,000 students and at schools it
already operates, Chief Executive Officer Rogerio Melzi said in
an interview. The company sees an opportunity to pair with
companies to offer education to mid-career managers, Melzi said.  ‘Small Fraction’  Kroton, Estacio and Anhanguera’s schools are concentrated
in the South and Southeast, which have higher per-capita incomes
and are more populated. As the middle class expands in other
regions of Brazil, demand for classes will climb, Jose Augusto Teixeira, chief financial officer of Anhanguera, said in a
telephone interview from Valinhos, Brazil, where the company is
based.  “We’re certainly present in only a small fraction of the
potential market,” he said. “We are concentrated in Sao Paulo,
the South and Midwest, but to reach our goal of serving 1
million students, up from the 432,000 we already have, other
capitals and bigger cities in the countryside, like  Rio de
Janeiro , Curitiba and -- in the Northeast -- Salvador and
Fortaleza present many interesting opportunities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net ;
Fabiola Moura in Sao Paulo at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  