-- Friedland’s Ivanplats May Raise Up to $333 Million in IPO
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-09-28T17:51:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/friedland-s-ivanplats-may-raise-up-to-333-million-in-share-sale.html
Ivanplats Ltd. , a mining company
founded by billionaire Robert Friedland, plans to raise as much
as C$327.2 million ($333 million) in an initial public offering
to develop mines in Africa.  Ivanplats, based in Vancouver, plans to sell 60.6 million
shares in Toronto for C$4.50 to C$5.40 apiece, according to
sales documents obtained by  Bloomberg News . The pricing of the
IPO is expected Oct. 15, according to the document. A spokesman
for the company couldn’t immediately confirm the terms.  The sale will help fund Ivanplats’ African projects and
provide equity for convertible bondholders before rates on the
debt jump to almost 19 percent on Nov. 10, according to a
preliminary prospectus. Friedland is selling equity in Ivanplats
about five months after losing control of the $6 billion Oyu
Tolgoi project in Mongolia to  Rio Tinto Group. (RIO)   Friedland, 62, is studying the feasibility of developing
the Kamoa copper deposit and the mothballed Kipushi copper-and-
zinc mine in the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Platreef
platinum discovery in  South Africa , according to the prospectus.  Ivanplats still owes money to Dan Gertler, an Israeli
mining investor, for Kipushi and will pay him as much as $105
million if the IPO raises at least $250 million, according to
the prospectus. Ivanplats must still pay $85 million by Dec. 14
even if the share sale doesn’t go ahead as planned.  $2 Billion Project  Ivanplats estimates that the Kamoa project in Congo’s
southern Katanga province, the center of the country’s copper
industry, will cost about $2 billion to develop, according to
the prospectus.  The Platreef platinum and nickel project, 280 kilometers
(175 miles) northeast of Johannesburg, is in South Africa’s
Bushveld mining complex.  Friedland built up Oyu Tolgoi amid disputes with joint
venture partner Rio Tinto and the Mongolian government. Now he’s
proposing a mining development in Congo, whose government seized
copper assets from Canada’s  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)  in 2010,
and in South Africa, where the mining industry is convulsed by
labor unrest.  Ivanplats’ board of directors includes  Cyril Ramaphosa ,
chairman of South Africa’s Shanduka Group Ltd., and  Marc Faber ,
author of the Gloom, Boom & Doom report, the prospectus shows.
Lars-Eric Johansson is chief executive officer.  Ivanplats may be the third-largest Canadian mining IPO
since at least 1999, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Franco-Nevada Corp. (FNV)  raised $1.26 billion in a 2007 initial
offering while  Tahoe Resources Inc. (THO)  sold $365.4 million in its
IPO in 2010.  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  is leading a group of underwriters
including Morgan Stanley, Macquarie Group Ltd. and Royal Bank of
Canada, according to the sales documents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  