-- Genworth Review Extended by Moody’s as CEO Weighs Plans
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-09-28T20:10:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/genworth-financial-credit-rating-review-extended-by-moody-s.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the
insurer seeking a chief executive officer, had its ratings
review extended by Moody’s Investors Service as acting CEO
Martin Klein weighs a shift in strategy.  “Moody’s will continue to focus on the evaluation of
holding company financial flexibility over the near to medium
term,” the ratings firm said today in a statement on the
Richmond, Virginia-based insurer.  Moody’s began a review in June to evaluate whether Genworth
should be cut to junk after incurring losses from insuring
mortgages against default. Such evaluations often take about
three months. Genworth said yesterday that it will disclose
third-quarter results Oct. 30 and hold a conference call the
next day when managers will “discuss company strategy and
action plans.”  Klein, who became acting CEO when Michael Fraizer stepped
down in May, is seeking to charge more for long-term care
coverage and evaluating how to limit damage from U.S. mortgage
insurance. The company also sells life insurance and retirement
products and backs home loans in  Canada  and  Australia .  “The company is pursuing various plans to manage the U.S.
mortgage insurance business and its linkages and dependencies to
the holding company,” Genworth said in a separate statement.
“The company does not believe run-off, a sale or spin-off of
that business are the most beneficial options for shareholders
at this time.”  Moody’s rated Genworth A2, five levels below the highest
grade, until 2008, when it lowered the grade two steps. In 2009,
the ratings company reduced its opinion to Baa3, the lowest
level of investment grade.  Genworth was unchanged at $5.23 at 4:01 p.m. in New York
trading. The company has dropped 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  