-- Georgia Abuse Outcry Lifts Russia-Linked Billionaire in Vote
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-09-28T15:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/georgia-abuse-outcry-lifts-russia-linked-billionaire-in-vote-1-.html
Public outcry over the rape and
beating of prisoners in a Georgian prison is threatening the
nine-year rule of U.S. ally President Mikheil Saakashvili in
Oct. 1 parliamentary elections.  While Saakashvili’s ruling party held a lead of more than
20 percentage points in a poll conducted last month, the release
on Sept. 18 of graphic footage showing prison guards beating and
raping male inmates with a broom handle and truncheon brought
thousands to the streets of many cities in  Georgia . The first
survey of public opinion since the scandal is expected today.  The opposition movement of billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili,
who’s accused by the Georgian government of ties with Russia,
where he made his fortune, is vowing to end Saakashvili’s rule
in the former Soviet state. Georgia, which has been allied with
the West since the so-called Rose Revolution swept Saakashvili
to power, fought a 2008 war with Russia in a failed bid to
regain control of a breakaway region.  “This prison scandal is a serious blow to President
Saakashvili’s government,” Matthew Bryza, a former U.S. deputy
assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs,
said Sept. 25 by phone from Istanbul. “He seems to have taken
decisive steps to deal with it and will need to convince his
electorate he is indeed doing so.”  Premier’s Job  Up for grabs in the election is the prime minister’s post,
which will become more powerful than the presidency once
Saakashvili ends his term next year because of legislative
changes two years ago. Ivanishvili said that his past business
experience and management skills would make him a good premier,
adding that he will leave  business altogether after exiting
politics.  Saakashvili, a 44-year-old U.S.-educated lawyer who
disbanded the traffic police after taking office, has won
plaudits from international organizations for reducing
corruption and eliminating red tape in his country of 4.5
million people.  Economic growth  accelerated to 8.2 percent from a year
earlier in the second quarter from 6.8 percent in the previous
three months. Georgia is ranked 16th out of 183 countries in
terms of ease of doing business, according to the  World Bank ’s
 2012 survey , ahead of  Germany ,  Japan  and  Switzerland . In 2006,
the Black Sea nation ranked 126th.  Squashing Dissent  While Saakashvili is credited with enacting policies to
create the economic turnaround, Ivanishvili, 56, and other
critics say he has curtailed free speech by squashing political
competition. Former allies of the president including ex-Foreign
Minister Salome Zourabishvili and former parliament speaker  Nino Burjanadze , a key figure in the Rose Revolution, turned against
him and joined the opposition.  Last year, a Georgian court sentenced Burjanadze’s husband
to 5 1/2 years in prison in absentia for organizing disobedience
against the police. In 2008 a French court refused a Georgian
request to extradite former defense minister Irakli Okruashvili,
who was sentenced to 11 years in jail in absentia for extortion
charges he said were retaliation for his decision to break with
Saakashvili.  “Georgia is not a democracy,” Ivanishvili said in
comments e-mailed by his office on Sept. 26. “The people of
Georgia will have the opportunity on Oct. 1 to stand against
authoritarian rule and stand up for democracy and the rule of
law.”  Banking, Metals  Ivanishvili, who was stripped of his Georgian citizenship
and holds a French passport, is worth $6.4 billion, according to
Forbes magazine, equivalent to almost half of Georgia’s $14.4
billion economy.  He made his money in banking and the sale of metals before
giving up his Russian citizenship and selling his assets there
this year to focus on Georgian politics. Ivanishvili says he
expects to normalize relations with Russia after fiver years if
his party wins the election, though he denies any ties to
President  Vladimir Putin ’s administration.  Saakashvili accuses the Russian government of spending
billions of dollars, which the Kremlin denies, and staging a
military build-up in a bid to influence the Oct. 1 vote.  “I call on our friends and allies in the international
community not to ignore or dismiss these worrisome
developments,” Saakashvili said in a  speech  before the  United
Nations General Assembly  in  New York  on Sept. 25. “Your
vigilance and engagement is required to make sure that 2012 does
not become a repeat of 2008 or especially 1921, when our
independence was violently terminated for the last time by
Russia.”  ‘Kremlin Project’  In remarks to foreign reporters today in Tbilisi,
Ivanisvili rejected the idea that he’s a “Kremlin project,”
saying he’s spent $1.7 billion of his own money on initiatives
to overhaul Georgia’s police force and military, among others.  Saakashvili may keep power as prime minister next year if
his party wins the election, mirroring a move by Putin, who
remained at  Russia ’s helm as premier from 2008-2012 after
completing the constitutional maximum of three consecutive
presidential terms. Putin returned to the Kremlin in May for a
new six-year term.  If Saakashvili, who will step down as president next autumn
after serving the maximum two terms, “took that step, if he
followed Putin, it would really damage his reputation,” said
the former State Department official, Bryza.  ‘Harsh’ Penalties  The Organization for Cooperation and Security in  Europe , a
56-nation democracy watchdog which is monitoring the election,
said last month that Georgia’s authorities were targeting
political opponents with investigations and levying “harsh”
penalties.  Saakashvili’s party holds 112 out of 150 seats in the
current parliament, with the rest controlled by the  Christian
Democrats , Powerful Georgia and Unity for Justice.  Fifty-five percent of likely voters supported the United
National Movement, compared with 33 percent for Ivanishvili’s
Georgian Dream, according to a survey last month by Washington-
based research firm Greenberg Quinlan Rosner.  The National Movement had 37 percent backing, compared with
12 percent for Ivanishvili’s party, according to a poll
conducted in August by the National Democratic Institute.
Twenty-two percent of voters were undecided, it said.  New Ministers  After thousands of Georgians took to the streets to protest
the rape allegations, the government replaced the interior and
prisons ministers and dismissed several hundred penitentiary
staff. The opposition are still demanding the prosecution of ex-
Interior Minister Bachana Akhalaia and have vowed to keep up
their rallies.  The prison abuse scandal has “seriously changed” the
situation, and while it’s still too early to say if the
opposition will win the most votes, it “expects to be ahead
with the help of these scandalous events,” according Alexander
Rondeli, head of the Georgian Foundation for Strategic and
International Studies research group in Tbilisi.  The Georgian authorities have gone on a counter-offensive,
with Ivanishvili’s campaign also plagued by scandal.  A week after the prison rape footage was released by
opposition TV channels, prosecutors said they foiled a plot
involving former Cabinet member Giorgi Khaindrava and a French-
based group of criminals to destabilize the nation before the
vote. The  Interior Ministry  also released taped conversations
between Georgian Dream members and alleged criminals, which
Ivanishvili’s party said were fabricated.  If the result is close and the ruling party claims victory,
Georgian Dream is likely to mount around-the-clock protests to
demand a recount, IHS Global Insight analyst Lilit Gevorgyan
said Sept. 26 by e-mail.  “The authorities have become used to seamless power and a
lack of accountability,” said Mark Mullen, chairman of
Transparency International Georgia. “It’s not yet clear if they
are committed to relinquishing some of that power, and if they
do, do they have the ability to share with an opposition or with
more independent institutions.”  -- Editors: Andrew Langley, Paul Abelsky  To contact the reporters on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net 
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  