-- Spanish Government Bonds Decline Before Stress Test Results
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-09-28T13:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/german-bunds-set-for-6th-quarterly-gain-before-inflation-report.html
Spanish 10-year government bonds
fell, paring the biggest monthly drop in yields this year,
before the nation reveals the results of stress tests on its
banks as it seeks to avoid a full financial bailout.  The declines pushed the yield above 6 percent for the third
day. German bunds extended their longest run of quarterly  gains 
since 1998 even as a report showed euro-area inflation
unexpectedly accelerated in September. French bonds headed for
their first weekly advance since the five-day period ending Aug.
24 as President Francois Hollande’s government delivered its
budget. Moody’s Investors Service may announce a review of
Spain’s credit rating.  “I don’t see anything supportive at the moment” for
Spanish bonds, said Gianluca Ziglio, an interest-rate strategist
at UBS AG in London. “The stress test results are being
announced later today and the Moody’s decision is also coming
up. I am pretty constructive on bunds in this kind of
environment.”  Spanish 10-year yields rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 6 percent at 2:15 p.m.  London  time. They
have climbed 24 basis points this week, still down 86 basis
points since the end of August, the biggest drop since December.
The 5.85 percent bond due in January 2022 fell 0.375, or 3.75
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,293) face amount, to 98.92. Italian 10-
year yields were little changed at 5.12 percent.  Spanish bonds have risen this quarter after the European
Central Bank said it would buy the debt of cash-strapped nations
to lower borrowing costs.  Spanish Hole  The release of the results of the independent stress test
conducted by consulting firm Oliver Wyman will reveal the size
of the hole in the Spanish banking system, which is reeling from
a property crash. Spain agreed a 100 billion-euro bailout for
its banks in July. Yesterday, the nation backed an austerity
package as it seeks to head off a bailout that may subject it to
budget cuts.  Germany ’s  10-year yield  fell two basis points to 1.44
percent, after touching 1.42 percent, the lowest level since
Sept. 5. The yield has dropped 14 basis points since the end of
June, having fallen in each of the past six quarters.  Demand for German bonds, perceived to be among the region’s
safest assets, was sustained even as the ECB cut its deposit
rate to zero in July and this month announced its asset-purchase
plan. Bunds have returned 1.1 percent in the past three months,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities
rose 4.2 percent and  Italy ’s earned 5.6 percent.  ‘Uncertainty’ Remains  “We still have a lot of uncertainty about the economic
outlook and also a lot of liquidity measures by the central
bank,” said  Karsten Linowsky , a fixed-income strategist at
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in Zurich. “This is overall keeping
yields low. In the short term, a lot will depend on the European
measures. This will drive the performance.”  Ten-year bunds will probably be little changed for the rest
of the year, and the yield may then rise toward 2 percent over
the next 12 months if the economy improves, Linowsky said. The
yield will reach 1.70 percent in December and 2.10 percent at
the end of September 2013, according to the median estimate of
economists and analysts in surveys compiled by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices  in the 17-nation euro region increased 2.7
percent from a year earlier after a 2.6 percent gain in August,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said in a
flash estimate today. The median forecast of 40 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for the rate to fall to 2.4 percent.  Stalled Gains  Gains by Spanish bonds have stalled as investors awaited to
see if the country will seek help from the ECB.  “The market priced in the benefits of the ECB’s actions
and we’ve seen some procrastination from the Spanish government
since then,” Niall O’Leary, Dublin-based head of portfolio
strategy for  Europe , Middle East and Africa at State Street
Global Advisors, the money-management unit of custody bank  State
Street Corp. (STT) , which oversees about $1.9 trillion in assets, said
in an interview yesterday. “There’s a bit of cat and mouse
going on in the market.”  Moody’s said on Aug. 30 that it would probably extend its
review of Spain’s credit rating, which started June 13,
“through” the end of this month in order to get more
information on support measures for the nation. Moody’s
currently ranks Spain at Baa3, one step above junk.  France ’s 10-year yields fell two basis points to 2.18
percent. Two-year yields were at 0.19 percent.  Hollande’s first budget was centered on tax increases aimed
at raising 20 billion euros, including a 75 percent levy on
incomes over 1 million euros. The premier aims to reduce the
deficit to 3 percent of output from 4.5 percent in 2012. The
budget predicts growth of 0.8 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold French 10-year
bonds over similar-maturity German bunds was 74 basis points
today after touching 77 basis points, the highest since Sept. 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  