-- German Stocks Drop Before Spanish Banks Stress Tests
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-09-28T15:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/german-stocks-decline-eon-bayer-allianz-lead-losses.html
German stocks  declined, their
biggest weekly drop since June, as investors awaited the results
of stress tests of  Spain ’s banks.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  fell 2.2 percent after the stock was
downgraded by CA Cheuvreux.  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  dropped 1.7
percent after the airline’s chief executive officer said its
cost-cutting program will fail to improve earnings this year.
 ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  rose 0.8 percent after selling its tailored
blanks unit for an undisclosed price.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  lost 1 percent to 7,216.15 at the close in
Frankfurt, having earlier climbed as much as 0.7 percent. The
equity benchmark retreated 3.2 percent this week, its biggest
retreat since the beginning of June. The gauge has still rallied
12 percent this quarter as the  European Central Bank  and the
 Federal Reserve  announced plans to buy bonds. The broader HDAX
Index fell 0.9 percent today.  “Most European markets have reached their highs and
definitely need some good news in order to keep their upside
momentum,” said Theodore Krintas, who helps manage 80 million
euros ($103 million) as the managing director of Attica Wealth
Management in Athens. Markets are now looking forward to the
next European summit on Oct. 18, he said.  Spanish 10-year  government bonds  erased their decline on
speculation the nation will request a bailout, enabling the ECB
to buy its debt on the secondary market.  Stress Tests  Spain will publish the results of stress tests on 14
banking groups at 6 p.m. in Madrid today. The tests will help
reveal the damage caused to banks’ balance sheets by the
country’s real estate crash and are a condition for the 100
billion-euro bank bailout agreed in July.  The government yesterday approved a new tax on lottery
winnings and cut ministries’ spending to shrink the  budget
deficit . The government set a target of 4.5 percent of gross
domestic product for the deficit in 2013, compared with 6.3
percent for this year.  A report today showed that German  retail sales  increased
0.3 percent in August, the Federal Statistics Office in
Wiesbaden said today. Economists had forecast a gain of 0.2
percent, according to the  median of eight estimates  in a
Bloomberg News survey.  HeidelbergCement, Lufthansa  HeidelbergCement, the world’s third-biggest cement maker,
fell 2.2 percent to 40.77 euros. The stock was cut to
underperform from outperform at Cheuvreux, meaning that
investors should sell the shares.  Deutsche Lufthansa lost 1.7 percent to 10.55 euros. The
airline’s CEO, Christoph Franz, said that fuel costs and the
faltering economy will stop the savings plan from leading to an
increase in earnings in 2012.  Solarworld AG (SWV)  plunged 6.1 percent to 1.53 euros. The  World
Trade Organization  will decide whether U.S. anti-subsidy duties
affecting $7.3 billion of Chinese products such as solar panels,
thermal paper, wind towers and steel wire violate global
commerce rules.  ThyssenKrupp advanced 0.8 percent to 16.54 euros, after
earlier rising as much as 3.9 percent.  Germany’s largest
steelmaker  sold the division, which supplies body systems for
cars, to Wuhan Iron & Steel Co.  Krones AG (KRN) , which makes machines for the bottling and
packaging industry, added 2.6 percent to 41.65 euros. Berenberg
Bank raised its recommendation on the stock to buy from hold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Toronto at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  