-- Goldman Pay-to-Play, Libor Probe, U.A.E. Bank: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-09-28T12:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/goldman-pay-to-play-libor-probe-u-a-e-bank-compliance.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will pay
$14.4 million to resolve regulatory claims that a former banker
made improper campaign contributions to the treasurer of
Massachusetts while seeking underwriting business.  Neil Morrison, who was a vice president in Goldman Sachs’s
Boston office, worked for Treasurer Timothy P. Cahill’s
unsuccessful gubernatorial campaign from November 2008 to
October 2010, sometimes during his office hours, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a  statement 
yesterday. That constituted in-kind contributions and broke pay-
to-play rules, the SEC said.  The settlement, which includes $4.6 million paid to
Massachusetts, is the SEC’s first involving noncash
contributions and is the latest since the agency began
bolstering oversight of the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market
in 2010. At that time, SEC Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami 
set up a  task force  to investigate bid-rigging for municipal-
investment contracts. The agency is looking into banks, local
governments that don’t disclose their true financial condition,
and public officials who hire advisers based on political
contributions.  The campaign work by Morrison, 38, disqualified Goldman
Sachs from underwriting bonds for Massachusetts and its agencies
for two years after the contributions, the SEC said.
Nevertheless, the New York-based firm participated in 30
prohibited underwritings, earning more than $7.5 million in
improper fees, according to the agency.  Goldman Sachs didn’t admit or deny wrongdoing. A telephone
call to Thomas Kiley, Morrison’s lawyer, wasn’t immediately
returned.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  FSA to Oversee Libor in Streamlining of Tarnished Benchmark  Oversight of Libor will be handed to the U.K.’s financial
regulator, and dozens of the currencies and maturities that make
up the benchmark axed, under proposals designed to revive
confidence in a rate tarnished by scandal.  The  British Bankers ’ Association should be stripped of the
responsibility for managing the rate and other organizations
invited to replace it, Financial Services Authority Managing
Director Martin Wheatley said in London today. More than 100
Libor rates tied to currencies and maturities where there isn’t
enough trading data to set them properly should be scrapped, and
a code of conduct introduced for how lenders contribute to the
benchmark backed by criminal penalties, he added.  Wheatley began his review at the request of Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  after  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s
second-biggest lender, paid a record 290 million-pound
($470 million) fine in June for manipulating the London
interbank offered rate, used to set rates for more than
$300 trillion of securities.  The FSA should receive greater powers to vet bankers who
contribute to the rate, according to Wheatley, who will become
the chief executive officer of the Financial Conduct Authority
when the FSA splits into two agencies next year.  He stopped short of advocating scrapping Libor, saying that
would be too disruptive to borrowers whose existing contracts
reference the rate.  Separately, Financial Secretary to the Treasury Greg Clark
said the U.K. government will move at the “maximum possible
pace” to implement a proposed overhaul of the oversight of
Libor and will give a formal response in the week beginning Oct.
15.  For more, click here and click here.  APRA Releases Final Basel III Capital Reform Package  The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority commented in
a statement on its website about the key features to be included
in a new definition of regulatory capital, under which common
equity is the predominant form of  Tier 1 capital .  Under the new definition, common equity Tier 1 capital must
be at least 4.5 percent of risk-weighted assets and the Tier 1
capital ratio at least 6 percent, according to the statement.  A new 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer will place
constraints on capital distributions, the authority said. In
addition, a countercyclical buffer of as much as 2.5 percent
will apply when excessive credit growth points to a system-wide
build-up of risk, the authority said in the statement.  Authority Chairman John Laker said reforms will lead to a
stronger Australian banking system, as well as make banks well
placed to meet Basel III timetable.  Network Operators Submit Power-Trading Rules to EU Regulators  European electricity-network operators submitted rules for
power trading that will help the bloc to achieve its goal of a
single market by 2014 to European Union regulators.  The capacity-allocation and congestion-management  code 
contains rules for day-ahead and intraday markets and the
calculation of capacity as well as defining bidding zones,
Entsoe, a Brussels-based body that represents national
operators, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  The  Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators  has
three months to assess the code and if approved, it will become
law, Entsoe said.  Compliance Action  SEC Issues Report to Help Brokers Safeguard Confidential Info  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission issued a staff
report for broker-dealers to help them determine the
effectiveness of their controls over sensitive information, the
SEC said in e-mailed statement.  The  Report by the Office of Compliance Inspections  and
Examinations addresses the prevention of insider trading and
details appropriate controls over matters such as e-mail,
information given to external parties, and disposal of
confidential documents.  The report also describes various methods that broker-
dealers use to manage conflicts.  U.S. Criminal Libor Probe Said to Seek London Trader Interviews  U.S. investigators conducting a criminal probe of interest-
rate manipulation have asked their British counterparts for
permission to interview London traders, two people familiar with
the investigation said.  The U.S.  Justice Department  filed a request with the U.K.
Home Office for access to dozens of bankers in conjunction with
British prosecutors who are also investigating the rate rigging,
said one of the people, who declined to be identified because
the proceedings haven’t been made public.  The move may indicate the U.S. wants to pursue criminal
charges against individuals in the U.K. that may lead to
extradition, said  Bradley Simon , a former federal prosecutor in
Brooklyn, New York.  Regulators from Tokyo to London to New York are probing how
derivatives traders and bankers who submitted interest-rate data
colluded to rig benchmarks including the London Interbank
Offered Rate.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are among lenders awaiting information about
their fate. The Justice Department’s criminal probe is running
in parallel with civil investigations being conducted by its
fraud division, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and the U.K. Financial Services Authority.  The U.K. Serious Fraud Office opened its criminal case in
July at the request of British politicians after Barclays Plc
was fined a record 290 million pounds ($470 million) for rate
manipulation. The agency previously declined to get involved in
the case, according to the FSA. Barclays Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond  and Chairman Marcus Agius resigned following the
fine.  A Home Office spokesman declined to comment on any
cooperation request. A spokesperson for the U.S. Justice
Department didn’t immediately respond to a request seeking
comment on cooperation with U.K. authorities.  Blocking Identity Theft Is U.S. Goal Ahead of Tax Filing  The U.S. Justice Department and the  Internal Revenue
Service  are working to head off identity theft aimed at stealing
people’s tax refunds when the filing season begins in January,
the government’s top tax prosecutor said.  The Justice Department will draw information from local
prosecutions to identify patterns in the cases and help the IRS
create computerized filters to block potentially fraudulent
refunds. They peak each year in the first few weeks of the
filing season as criminals try to get refunds under legitimate
taxpayers’ names before those people file their own returns.  In a typical case, criminals steal or illegally purchase
taxpayers’ identifying information from hospitals, medical
offices, prisons and other places that have the data. They then
file false tax returns, claim a refund and have the money
deposited on a prepaid debit card.  In a Sept. 15 speech in Boston, IRS Commissioner  Douglas
Shulman  said his agency this year stopped more than 3 million
tax returns and determined that 90 percent of them were “bad.”  CFTC Orders ANZ to Pay $350,000 for Violating Position Limits  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission ordered  Australia
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  to pay $350,000 for exceeding
speculative-position limits in wheat and cotton futures traded
on the Chicago Board of Trade and ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  The bank violated CBOT wheat limits in August 2010, and
held a net-short position that was greater than allowed for ICE
cotton contracts in February 2011, the CFTC said in a statement
yesterday.  BofA Expects U.A.E. Central Bank to Extend New Lending Rules  The United Arab Emirates’ central bank may extend a
deadline by six months for banks to comply with new rules that
limit lending to governments and their entities,  Bank of America
Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch unit said.  The  U.A.E. central bank  said April 4 that banks in the
U.A.E. must not lend more than 100 percent of their capital to
local governments and the same to government-related entities
known as GREs to help reduce risk. Banks had until Sept. 30 to
comply. There was no limit under previous rules.  The U.A.E. central bank is holding separate discussions
with each bank about the rules, a spokesman for  Emirates NBD
PJSC (EMIRATES) , who declined to be identified because of company policy,
said. The  Emirates Banks Association , a body representing U.A.E.
banks, led discussions with the central bank earlier, although
talks are being held separately with each bank about the rules
because of differences with each bank’s portfolio, he said.  The exposure of Emirates NBD PJSC, the U.A.E.’s biggest
bank by assets, to sovereign and quasi-sovereign clients is 192
percent of regulatory capital, while that of  National Bank of
Abu Dhabi PJSC  and  Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB) , the second-
and third-biggest U.A.E. lenders, are 199 percent and 108
percent, according to Deutsche Bank AG estimates in April.  SEC Review Finds Gaps on Insider Trading at U.S. Broker-Dealers  Traders at broker-dealers often interact with bankers who
know confidential information, raising concerns about undetected
insider trading, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
said.  Senior executives at some broker-dealers are allowed access
to non-public information from one group while overseeing
employees who could benefit from it, the SEC’s Office of
Compliance Inspections and Examinations said yesterday in a
 report . Allowing some supervisors to be “above the wall”
dividing traders from those with the information may facilitate
insider trading, according to the report, which didn’t name any
firms where such practices exist.  The SEC’s review of secrecy procedures at broker-dealers
follows a nationwide crackdown on insider trading by the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation in New York and prosecutors in the
office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara that began five
years ago.  Courts  Ex-Credit Suisse CDO Boss Won’t Go to U.S. Before Plea Deal  Kareem Serageldin, the ex-global head of  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) ’s CDO business charged in a bonus-boosting fraud tied
to a $5.35 billion trading book, will fight extradition to the
U.S. until he reaches a plea deal.  Serageldin’s lawyer told a London court yesterday that his
client’s arrest Sept. 26 outside the U.S. Embassy was a result
of “miscommunication.” Ben Brandon said Serageldin was
negotiating a plea bargain with U.S. prosecutors before the
arrest. He was released on a 150,000-pound ($243,000) security
until a Nov. 28 court hearing.  “Serageldin has absolutely no intention of whatsoever of
fleeing,” Brandon said yesterday.  Serageldin, a U.S. citizen who lives in England, was
charged in February with masterminding a scheme to fake
collateralized debt obligations. In February, when he was first
charged in Manhattan federal court, Serageldin said through his
lawyers that he was surprised since he had been cooperating with
U.S. investigators for four years.  Serageldin was named in an indictment unsealed in February
accusing him of conspiracy, falsification of books and records
and wire fraud. The conspiracy charge carries a maximum five-
year prison term on conviction. The other counts are punishable
by as many as 20 years. The case is being investigated by agents
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York.  Judge Michael Snow, who said the allegations are “very
serious,” told Serageldin he must not leave his home between 11
p.m. and 6 a.m., and must wear an electronic tag.  Serageldin, who was born in Egypt, wants to renounce his
U.S citizenship and serve part of any sentence in the U.K.,
Brandon said.  The U.S. criminal cases are U.S. v. Higgs, 12-cr-00088, and
U.S. v. Siddiqui, 12-cr-00089, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The SEC case is U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission v. Serageldin, 12-cv-00796,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews  SEC’s Gallagher Calls for Floating Price for Money Funds  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission member Daniel
Gallagher, who helped derail efforts to tighten rules for money-
market mutual funds, said he would probably support a measure
forcing the industry to abandon its marquee $1 share price.  Requiring money funds to have a fluctuating share price
“is an attractive option that I am likely to support,”
Gallagher, a Republican, said in an interview.  The remarks may help revive the debate at the SEC and offer
a path toward compromise for SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , whose
proposal ran aground last month.  Gallagher said he couldn’t vote for Schapiro’s plan because
its centerpiece was to make the funds hold extra capital. The
cushion was too small to protect investors, Gallagher said,
leading him to believe the money would be used as collateral in
case the funds needed to borrow from the  Federal Reserve .  “I could not be complicit in a rulemaking that purported
to eliminate bailouts but would actually do the opposite,”
Gallagher said.  SEC spokeswoman Judith Burns declined to comment.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  