-- Groupon Names Muhr to Help Lead International Amid Europe Slump
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-09-28T19:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/groupon-names-muhr-to-help-lead-international-amid-europe-slump.html
Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  promoted a sales
executive to help lead international efforts after weak demand
in Europe contributed to second-quarter revenue that trailed
analysts’ estimates.  Chris Muhr, who was senior vice president of sales, will
head the Europe,  Middle East  and Africa region, Julie Mossler, a
spokeswoman for Chicago-based Groupon, said today in an e-mail.
Veit Dengler is leaving after a six-month stint as senior vice
president of international, she said.  “Groupon is making changes in its management structure
that aim to flatten its global organization,” Mossler said.
“These changes will make Groupon faster and more efficient,
enabling the company to deliver more to local merchants and
consumers across the globe.”  Groupon, which makes more than half its  revenue  from
outside the U.S., has suffered from its increasing exposure to
the European financial crisis. International revenue increased
31 percent to $308.2 million in the second quarter. Growth would
have been 45 percent without the impact of foreign exchange
rates, the company said last month.  Groupon had “challenges in  Europe ,” Chief Financial
Officer Jason Child said last month. European shoppers bought
fewer deals associated with discretionary purchases of $100 or
more in the period, executives said.  Total revenue in the second quarter rose 45 percent to
$568.3 million, trailing the average analyst estimate of $575.3
million.  Europe Weakness  The company makes money by selling discounts -- known as
Groupons -- from businesses such as restaurants and nail salons.
It then splits the revenue with the businesses.  Groupon also named Rob Kilgarriff as vice president of
North American sales and account management, according to a
statement today. Kilgarriff will report to Kal Raman, the global
sales chief hired earlier this year.  Dengler joined Groupon in April of this year after a six-
year tenure as a manager at  Dell Inc. (DELL) , according to his  profile 
on LinkedIn.  Muhr has been at Groupon since 2009, begining as managing
director of its U.K. office, according to LinkedIn. His
promotion was first reported by Reuters, which said it obtained
an internal memo announcing the changes.  Groupon rose 0.6 percent to $4.81 at 3:05 p.m. in  New York .
Through yesterday, the stock had dropped 76 percent since its
initial public offering in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  