-- Guinea’s Yansane Sees 5% Growth in 2013 After Debt Relief
-- B y   O u g n a   C a m a r a
-- 2012-09-28T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/guinea-s-yansane-sees-5-growth-in-2013-after-debt-relief.html
Guinea  is targeting growth of 5
percent next year, faster than an  International Monetary Fund 
forecast, as it uses funds saved from debt relief for social
spending, Finance Minister Kerfalla Yansane said.  The world’s biggest exporter of bauxite, used in aluminum-
making, got $2.1 billion in debt relief from the IMF and the
World Bank this week after it reached the so-called completion
point of the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative, the
lenders said. The IMF forecasts growth of 4.7 percent this year
and 4.8 percent in 2013, according to its website.  “Our ambition is to have double-digit growth from
2015-16,” Yansane said in an interview in Conakry, the capital,
on Sept. 26. The country will save at least $150 million each
year on debt-servicing costs, which will be invested in water
and energy as well as agriculture development and health care,
he said.  Guinea has been attempting to boost growth and ease
inflation in its $5.1 billion economy after the November 2010
election of Alpha Conde as president, which ended two years of
military rule that saw the country sever ties with international
lenders.  Rio Tinto Group is developing the Simandou iron-ore project
and has a stake along with  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  in a bauxite company in
Guinea.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  mines gold in the country and
Vale SA is also developing an iron-ore site.  Easing Inflation  The country may seek future borrowing “so as to make
investments which have an impact on the economy and growth,” he
said. The IMF has given Guinea $56.6 million so far, including a
tranche of $28 million on Sept. 26, under an extended-credit
facility that was approved in February.  Guinea started the World Bank and IMF’s HIPC program in
2000, Yansane said. The country had a total external debt of
$3.2 billion before the write-off this week, he said.  “We are going to be able to negotiate with the other
creditors,” Yansane said.  Inflation, which was 34.7 percent in 2006 according to the
 World Bank , is forecast to ease to 10 percent next year, he
said. The rate in August was 14.5 percent, according to the
country’s statistics agency.  “If we can get a single-digit inflation rate it can be a
good thing, but our objective is to halve it in next two
years,” Yansane said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ougna Camara in Conakry via Accra at 
 ocamara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  