-- Gundlach’s $10 Million in Art Found as Suspects Charged
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-09-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/gundlach-s-10-million-in-art-found-suspects-in-custody.html
Jeffrey Gundlach , the chief
executive officer of DoubleLine Capital LP who had about $10
million in art stolen from his home in Santa Monica,  California ,
two weeks ago, said all the works were recovered.  Suspects were apprehended and the investigation is
continuing, Gundlach said late yesterday in an e-mailed
statement thanking local police led by Detective David Haro.  “This is a great day for the art world and all those who
seek order and justice in our society,” said Gundlach, who runs
the top-rated  DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund. (DBLTX)   Most of the paintings were found at Al & Ed’s Autosound in
 Pasadena , California, after Pasadena police received a tip,
according to a statement from the Santa Monica Police
Department. Four more were recovered from a residence in San
Gabriel and the final painting was found at a home in Glendale.
Two suspects were charged with possessing stolen property. A
third person has been interviewed and is cooperating with
investigators, according to the statement.  Gundlach offered $1.7 million in rewards, including $1
million for the recovery of a painting by Piet Mondrian,
provided it isn’t damaged, and $500,000 for a Jasper Johns work
and two pieces by Joseph Cornell.  After returning from a trip, the owner of a Santa Monica
residence realized that several paintings, a red 2010 Porsche
Carrera 4S, watches, wine and a small amount of cash had been
stolen, the city’s police said last week in a statement. At
least 10 paintings and five watches, including one Breitling,
were taken. Police estimated the loss at more than $10 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  