-- Iceland’s Offshore Krona Investors Need Incentives, IMF Says
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-09-28T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/iceland-s-offshore-krona-investors-need-incentives-imf-says.html
Iceland needs to make it more
attractive for offshore kronur investors to use the island’s
program to unwind krona controls as progress in freeing capital
flows remains slow, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “To accelerate progress it is necessary to strengthen the
incentives for holders of liquid offshore krona to participate
in the liberalization strategy,” the IMF said in a statement.  Iceland’s  central bank  is seeking to phase out the controls
by 2015 through dual currency auctions of kronur and euros. The
program is designed to take pressure off the krona even as
investors sell their holdings by offering financial benefits and
the option of reinvesting in the island.  The IMF estimates that the stock of assets frozen by the
controls is 23 percent of the economy, a number it says “could
rise significantly” as the island’s failed banks wind up their
estates. Including such assets, the figure may grow to about $8
billion, compared with Iceland’s gross domestic product last
year of $13.5 billion, according to Arion Bank hf.  “A key step will be to curtail expectations that  capital
controls  will be lifted soon, including by removing a reference
in legislation to a terminal date for the controls,” the fund
said. “The strategy should clarify that the conditions under
which liquid offshore kronas are allowed to exit will become
less favorable over time.”  Free Float  Iceland’s government has said it is unlikely to return to a
free-floating krona and has signaled it will probably switch to
the euro after joining the European Union, for which it started
accession talks in 2010.  The north Atlantic island’s economic outlook is “good”
and Iceland is this year likely to “broadly” repeat an
economic growth rate of 2.6 percent achieved in 2011, the IMF
said. An orderly unwinding of the capital controls is key to
Iceland’s continued recovery, the fund said.  A working group consisting of members from the IMF, the
European Commission, the European Central Bank and Icelandic
officials is due to deliver an interim report on options for
removing the capital controls by year-end, the  finance ministry 
said on Sept. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net . 