-- ICO Plans to Promote Coffee Demand in Developing Countries
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r
-- 2012-09-28T15:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/ico-plans-to-promote-coffee-demand-in-developing-countries-1-.html
The  International Coffee
Organization  is going ahead with plans to promote coffee
consumption in  developing countries  as part of a global effort
that almost doubled growth in demand in the past 10 years.  Demand for arabica beans is already probably going to get a
boost because of the increased prices of robusta, Roberio Oliveira Silva, executive director of the London-based group,
told reporters in  London  today. Arabica beans have dropped 24
percent this year as robusta beans climbed 20 percent.  “There will be an increase in arabica,” Silva said.  Global coffee demand climbed an average 2.5 percent a year
over the past 10 years, compared with 1.6 percent from 1990 to
1999, Silva said in a presentation dated this week for ICO
meetings. The ICO wants to “decommoditize” coffee in growing
countries in Africa and  South America , according to Andrea Illy,
chairman and chief executive officer of Trieste, Italy-based
Illycaffe SpA who is also chairman of the ICO promotion and
market development committee.  The ICO wants to support demand growth even with
consumption exceeding production to get out of the cycle of high
prices spurring production that lead to lower prices, Illy said.
Coffee demand was 138 million bags in 2011 compared with
production of 132.7 million bags, according to the ICO. Ten
years ago, coffee was in surplus, Illy said.  In  China , coffee consumption is still not growing in the
double digits, Silva said. Younger people drink maybe one cup a
week, at shops to socialize, and usually with milk, Illy said.
In  India , young people in the south drink coffee with chicory,
he said.  Cameroon is the latest exporter to join the ICO, bringing
membership to 38 exporting nations and six importing nations,
Silva said. Colombia’s coffee crop is expected to recover in the
2012-13 season after a four-year rebuilding, Silva said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter in London at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  