-- Illumina Aims at Roche for Tests Seen Worth $25 Billion
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-09-28T20:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/illumina-aims-at-roche-for-tests-seen-worth-25-billion.html
With gene testing all the rage, the
two biggest makers of DNA sequencing equipment are about to snap
up smaller players in an attempt to stake out a market expected
to reach $8 billion by 2014 and $25 billion within a decade.  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  and  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) ’s gene
deciphering gear has helped revolutionize genetic testing. Now,
the two companies are intent on entering the fast growing
genetic diagnostics market on their own, putting them in direct
competition with such giant players as  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and
Abbott Laboratories. Last week, Illumina bought BlueGnome Ltd.
for an undisclosed sum, its first foray into the diagnostics
market. Life Technologies, which has grown its gene-tool
business through 9 acquisitions totaling $8.3 billion in the
past 10 years, is also after small diagnostic businesses, most
recently Navigenics Inc., which it acquired in July.  “You have this amazing amount of money being invested by
pharmaceutical companies, billions of dollars, to find pathways
that lead to cancer,” Ronnie Andrews, president of medical
sciences at Carlsbad, California-based Life Technologies, said
in a telephone interview. “We want to be the go-to companies
for small biotech and academics that have content that matter.
They can come to us. We have cash to invest,” he said.  Growth Market  Though it currently accounts for just $5.6 billion of the
$44 billion diagnostics market, genetic testing grew at a 17
percent clip last year, the fastest growing segment of the
market, according to Koncept Analytics, a market research firm
based in Vaishali,  India . UnitedHealth Group Inc., the largest
U.S. health insurer, expects the genetic test market will grow
to $25 billion within a decade. Already, there are about 1,800
DNA tests developed to identify or manage medical conditions,
the health plan reported.  Advances in cancer genetics are spurring investment and
acquisitions by companies looking to expand in molecular
testing. The push to identify genes that cause cancer, such as
recent findings in lung, breast and ovarian malignancies
highlighted this month by the  Cancer Genome Atlas Project , are
fueling demand for DNA tests that doctors can use to predict
risk and then diagnose and treat disease.  Life Technologies generates most of its $3.8 billion annual
revenue from laboratory tools and related products, including
gene sequencers, cell culture products, benchtop instruments,
forensic testing and royalties. San Diego-based Illumina, the
world’s biggest maker of gene sequencing machines which fought
off a hostile takeover bid from Roche earlier this year, derives
about 70 percent of its $1.1 billion in annual revenue from
government-supported research.  More Value  While Illumina Chief Executive Officer  Jay Flatley , in an
interview with  Bloomberg News , said his company has never taken
“an entrenched position that we wanted to be independent,” he
insisted the growing importance of its expanding testing
technology demanded more value than Roche’s $51 a share bid.  “We’ve been moving very deliberately toward diagnostics
and have announced a diagnostic strategy,” Flatley said.
“There’s a couple areas that we’ve focused on and those are
oncology and reproductive health.”  Illumina gained 2.6 percent to $48.19 as of 4 p.m. in  New
York  trading, and has gained 58 percent this year. Life
Technologies fell less than 1 percent to $48.86, and has
increased 26 percent this year.  Andrews, in his interview, also pointed to the industry’s
inherent value, saying advances in understanding the genetic
triggers that cause cancer and the factors that spur its growth
have created an “inflection point” in diagnostics not seen
since researchers first focused on identifying and hobbling the
virus that causes AIDS.  Targeted Drugs  After two decades of research, HIV can be treated like a
chronic disease, with numerous medicines working in concert to
slow the deadly progression to AIDS, he said. Researchers are
now thinking about cancer in the same way.  The first medicines to target specific genetic mutations as
the cause of disease were the blood-malignancy drug Rituxan,
approved for sale in 1997, and Herceptin for  breast cancer ,
cleared in 1998. Both were developed by California-based
Genentech Inc., a biotechnology company acquired in 2009 by the
Basel, Switzerland-based Roche.  Now more than 72 gene-based therapies are available,
according to the  Personalized Medicine Coalition , an industry
advocacy group based in  Washington . And every day, the targets
are becoming more precise.  Genome Atlas  On Sept. 24, scientists at the Cancer Genome Atlas
announced that genetic mapping of hundreds of breast cancer
tumors identified different forms of the disease through the
mutations linked to them. They also determined that one form
closely resembles ovarian cancer, suggesting it may be attacked
with similar therapies.  That report followed by 14 days their announcement that a
form of  lung cancer  fatal to 400,000 people annually could be
attacked by targeting newly discovered mutations.  At the same time, competition is building in the genetics
space. Illumina’s Sept. 19 announcement that it was buying
BlueGnome Ltd. to expand its capabilities followed by just two
days a report by BGI-Shenzhen, a Chinese operator of genome-
sequencing centers, that it would buy Complete Genomics Inc.  Life Technology is also seeking “tuck-ins along the way,”
Andrews said. “We are going to build” from within.  $3,000 Tests  The company is focused on products like cancer tests, which
can determine whether tumors will respond to treatment,
according to Andrews. While the tests can cost $3,000, they may
help patients avoid a $100,000 treatment that ultimately won’t
work, he said.  While Life doesn’t seek to be acquired, it is looking for
partnerships with pharmaceutical companies like those it has
with Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. and GlaxoSmithKline Plc., Andrews
said. The ventures allow them to work closely together on
products in the earliest stages of development, crafting a
companion test to go along with a new medicine to ensure the
drug is hitting the right target, Andrews said.  For all the excitement, though, it’s still not clear which
molecular-based tests will turn out to be winners, said  Sven Borho , general partner of New York-based Orbimed Advisors LLC,
which owned more than 2 million Life Technologies shares and 1.6
million Illumina shares as of June 30.  There is some uncertainty, both scientific and regulatory,
built into the market, he said.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  hasn’t established a
clear path to approval for the tests, creating uncertainty about
their development. Further, the systems for handling all the
data they create aren’t fully developed, in some cases leading
to medical errors that threatened rather than saved lives.  “The promise of this has been around for a very long
time,” Borho said in a telephone interview. “But it’s a
complicated story. The ultimate outcome everyone wants is really
targeted drugs with genetic marker so you know exactly if the
drugs are going to work. We are still in the early days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  