-- Tim Hortons Cracks Top Five U.S. Coffee Shops in Zagat
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-09-28T20:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/tim-hortons-cracks-top-five-u-s-coffee-shops-in-zagat-su.html
Americans may be figuring out why
their northern neighbors love their double-doubles.  Tim Hortons  Inc., which  claims  to sell eight out of 10 cups
of coffee in Canada, including those with two sugars and two
creams, broke into the top five of Zagat’s annual ranking of
fast-food chains for the first time.  The coffee and doughnut chain, based in Oakville, Ontario,
ranked fifth in the “quick refreshment” category in an online
survey released today by New York-based Zagat Survey LLC, a unit
of  Google Inc. (GOOG)   That was up from 22nd last year, and behind  Caribou Coffee
Co Inc.’s (CBOU)  Caribou Coffee, Rita’s Italian Ice,  Peet’s Coffee &
Tea Inc. (PEET)  and Culver’s in the category, Zagat said in a
statement. Tim Hortons also came fifth in both service and decor
in the survey of more than 10,500 diners. A total of 274
companies were ranked in various categories.  “In my opinion, they’re definitely gaining recognition,”
Brian Yarbrough, a restaurant-industry analyst with Edward Jones
& Co. said by phone from  St. Louis , Missouri. “Is that the
coffee? Is that the ice coffees and the smoothies and food all
combined? But definitely, when you’re putting up some of the
best sales numbers in the industry I’ve got to believe you’re
gaining some share.”  Tim Hortons, which has been expanding its menu from its
coffee and doughnut staples, has added an average of 69
restaurants a year in Canada compared with 28 a year in the U.S.
since entering that market in 1986.  Tim Hortons  closed  16 cents higher at C$51.16 in Toronto
today and has gained 3.7 percent this year.  The chain, founded in Hamilton, Ontario, in 1964 by the
late Tim Horton, who was a National Hockey League player,
currently has more than 700 restaurants across 11 states and is
in the process of adding 80 to 100 locations before the end of
the year.  It has 3,326 restaurants in  Canada  and sells about 2
billion cups of coffee in  North America  a year, spokesman  David
Morelli  said by e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  