-- IMF Says Congo Economy to Grow 8.2% to $20.7 Billion in 2013
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-09-28T08:51:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/imf-says-congo-s-economy-to-grow-8-2-to-20-7-billion-in-2013.html
Democratic Republic  of Congo’s
economy will grow an estimated 8.2 percent to 18.9 trillion
Congolese francs ($20.7 billion) next year, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in a statement on its website.  The Central African country’s economy should expand about
7.2 percent this year to 16.4 trillion francs, the IMF said in
the statement yesterday after an annual “ Article IV ” review of
Congo’s economic development and policies. The Washington-based
international lender has a three-year, $561 million loan
agreement with the country.  “In the past few years, economic performance in the DRC
has shown marked improvement although progress in alleviating
poverty” has lagged, according to the statement. “Strong trade
and investment inflows from non-European countries, driven
mainly by the mining sector, have provided the main impetus to
growth.”  Congo produces about 4 percent of the world’s copper and
nearly half its cobalt, and has deposits of gold, diamonds, and
tin. The potential mineral riches have attracted a $6 billion
minerals-for-infrastructure agreement with  China . Hong Kong-
based Minmetals Resources Ltd. and  Jinchuan Group Ltd. (2362)  acquired
mining projects in Congo in the past 13 months.  Transparency Lacking  Phoenix-based  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s $2
billion Tenke copper and cobalt project is the largest single
investment in the country.  While the economy has expanded since the end of nearly a
decade of war in 2003, the United Nations Development Programme
ranked Congo the least-developed country in the world last year.  An increase in external debt arrears and poor governance of
its natural-resource industry may hamper the country’s economic
progress, the IMF said.  The IMF delayed Congo’s last two loan disbursements, worth
more than $150 million combined, in part because of a lack of
transparency and accountability at the country’s state-owned
mining companies, according to the statement. The companies are
required to publish contracts and report deal details under the
IMF agreement.  “Poverty remains widespread, the economy is vulnerable to
domestic and external risks, and program delays are cause for
concern,” according to the fund’s statement. “Directors called
for steadfast efforts to preserve fiscal credibility, strengthen
the monetary policy framework, and improve the governance of
extractive industries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  