-- IMF Agrees to Unlock $663 Million for Romania
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-09-28T20:28:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/imf-agrees-to-unlock-663-million-for-romania.html
The International Monetary Fund
agreed to unlock about $663 million under  Romania ’s
precautionary loan after reviewing the country’s progress in
meeting the terms attached to the bailout.  The Romanian government has indicated it still has no
intention to draw on the 3.7 billion-euro ($4.8 billion) plan,
which was approved in March 2011, the IMF board said in an e-
mailed statement after meeting today in  Washington .  “The economic outlook remains challenging due to the
difficult external and internal environments that have led to
exchange-rate pressures and undermined confidence,” IMF First
Deputy Managing Director David Lipton said in the statement.
“Steadfast program implementation is essential to preserve the
hard-won macroeconomic stability and boost investment and growth
potential.”  The eastern European country is counting on a 5 billion-
euro, two-year accord from the IMF and the European Union, its
second bailout package, to act as a safety net amid the European
sovereign-debt crisis.  The government complied with the IMF’s terms this month by
auctioning a majority stake in chemical company  Oltchim SA (OLT)  and
submitting a prospectus to the stock-market regulator for the
sale of 15 percent of  Transgaz SA (TGN) , Prime Minister Victor Ponta
said Sept. 25.  Romania also raised natural-gas prices 5 percent for
households and 10 percent for companies and cut unpaid debt to
private companies, the IMF’s other two demands, Ponta said.  “Remedial measures to ensure a decline in arrears remain a
priority,” Lipton said in today’s statement. “Additional
efforts are needed to improve tax administration and reform the
health care, energy and transportation sectors.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net 
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  