-- Limits Seen in White House Cybersecurity Executive Order
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-09-28T16:41:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/limits-seen-in-white-house-cybersecurity-executive-order.html
The White House may have difficulty
bolstering U.S. cyber defenses through an executive order unless
there’s enough public support, according to former National
Security Agency director  Michael Hayden .  If President  Barack Obama  issues an executive order rather
than waiting for Congress to agree on comprehensive legislation,
it would be an admission that there isn’t broad support for
cybersecurity efforts, Hayden said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  on the new program  “Capitol
Gains,” which airs Sept. 30.  “We as citizens have not yet determined, in broad terms,
what it is that we want the government to do in the cyber domain
to defend us or what we will allow the government to do in the
cyber domain,” said Hayden, who led the NSA from 1999 to 2005
and was Central Intelligence Agency director for the final years
of  George W. Bush ’s administration.  The Senate failed last month to advance comprehensive
cybersecurity legislation, prompting the White House to consider
using its executive power to create a program to shield vital
 computer networks  from potentially crippling cyber attacks and
electronic espionage.  A series of denial-of-service attacks this week and last
week against the biggest U.S. banks, including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , demonstrates that even some of the
nation’s most advanced computer defenses can be breached,
according to cybersecurity specialists tracking the assaults.  ‘Close Call’  Hayden said it’s “a really close call” on whether the
Obama administration should issue an executive order.  The administration must consider whether such an order
would build momentum and spur private companies that own most of
the nation’s critical infrastructure to better protect their
networks, according to Hayden. On the other hand, there’s a risk
of alienating companies, he said.  Hayden has firsthand experience in acting under a broad
interpretation of executive power. While at the NSA, he oversaw
the so-called terrorist surveillance program that conducted
electronic surveillance on Internet activity and phone calls of
U.S. citizens without warrants.  The program was authorized in secret by the  Bush
administration  after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Congress
passed a law in 2008 to provide a legal framework for the
program.  “As director of both NSA and the CIA, I operated on the
outer reaches of executive prerogative doing some things to
defend the nation,” said Hayden, now a principal at the
Chertoff Group, a consulting firm in Washington. “You can’t do
that over the long term in a democracy without broad political
support.”  Cybersecurity Standards  Hayden said he believes that government and private
companies should develop standards to protect computer networks
from potentially devastating attacks.  “We’ve got to agree on certain levels of security,” he
said. “There are some industries that, when they are penetrated
and punished with a cyber attack, the cost is not confined to
those industries.”  There’s been debate over whether cybersecurity standards
should be mandatory or voluntary for companies. Hayden said
mandatory standards could result in companies doing the minimum
amount to protect their networks.  “I fear if we rely only on mandatory standards and not
voluntary standards, we set in motion a compliance mindset,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at   krizzo5@bloomberg.net  