-- India Current-Account Gap Narrows in Boost for Singh Rupee Rally
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-09-28T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/india-current-account-gap-narrows-in-boost-for-singh-rupee-rally.html
India ’s current-account deficit
narrowed last quarter from a record, boosting the outlook for
the rupee as a policy overhaul by Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
to revive economic growth buoys the currency.  The  shortfall  in the broadest measure of trade was $16.4
billion in the three months ended June 30, compared with a $21.7
billion gap from January through March, the  Reserve Bank of
India  said in a statement yesterday. The median of 16 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey was a $14.2 billion deficit.  The rupee is among the world’s best performers versus the
dollar since Sept. 13, climbing about 5 percent as Singh
unveiled steps to contain a fiscal deficit and spur investment
after months of inaction that hurt Indian expansion. The
government is striving to avert a credit-rating downgrade that
may disrupt the inflows of foreign capital needed to fund the
current-account gap.  “Pain on the deficit front seems to be easing for now and
comes along with the reform initiatives,” said Tirthankar Patnaik, a Mumbai-based strategist at Religare Capital Markets
Ltd. “If the government maintains the pace, it will be positive
for sentiment and the currency.”  The rupee strengthened 0.3 percent to 52.86 per dollar
yesterday, paring its drop over the past year to 7.8 percent.
The  BSE India Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of stocks rose 1 percent, while
the yield on the 8.15 percent bond due June 2022 declined to
8.15 percent from 8.16 percent on Sept. 27.  Oil Imports  The current-account deficit last quarter was equivalent to
3.9 percent of gross domestic product, yesterday’s report showed.
The  trade gap  narrowed to $42.5 billion from $51.7 billion in
January-to-March.  India imports about 80 percent of its crude oil, while
 Europe ’s debt crisis has crimped the nation’s overseas sales,
contributing to its trade shortfall. The South Asian nation is
also the world’s biggest bullion buyer. The government doubled
the import tax on gold bars and coins to 4 percent in March to
deter inward shipments of the metal.  The administration announced a 14 percent increase in
diesel prices on Sept. 13, the first rise in more than a year,
to pare fuel subsidies that have stoked India’s budget shortfall.  Singh opened the retail, aviation, energy and broadcast
industries to more foreign investment the next day, countering
opposition to the revamp by saying the moves are necessary to
rejuvenate the economy, spur expansion and generate jobs.  The current-account deficit widened to an unprecedented
$78.2 billion in the fiscal year ended March, or 4.2 percent of
GDP, compared with the 2.5 percent considered sustainable by the
 Reserve Bank .  Growth in the Indian economy slumped below 6 percent in the
past two quarters, the weakest performance since the global
recession in 2009.  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  reduced
the outlook on India’s credit rating to negative from stable
earlier this year, imperiling its investment-grade status.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  