-- Indonesia Emerging as Stable Investment Area, Basri Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-09-28T21:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/indonesia-emerging-as-stable-investment-area-basri-says.html
Indonesia , Southeast Asia’s largest
economy, is emerging as a stable ground for investment as much
of Asia experiences an economic slowdown, the head of the
country’s investment board said.  Indonesia is the “least unattractive country” in the
region as economic growth in China,  Japan  and India cools,
Chatib Basri, chairman of Indonesia’s Investment Coordinating
Board, said at a forum in  Washington  yesterday. Foreign direct
investment in the first half of the year was $12 billion, on
track to reach as much as $25 billion by year’s end, he said.  Companies such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Taiwan’s  Foxconn (2038) 
Technology Group are mulling investment opportunities in
Indonesia, and next month  L’Oreal (OR)  SA will open a cosmetics
factory there, Basri said. Indonesia plans to boost total
investment by at least 72 percent over the next two years.  A young working population, stable political situation and
healthy debt-to-gross domestic product ratio are among
attractions for investment in Indonesia, he said. Still, the
country faces headwinds in developing infrastructure and
education and mitigating corruption, as well as fallout from
global economic cooling.  “All the situations in the global economy could change at
any time,” Basri said.  Woos Investment  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is increasing spending
on roads, seaports and airports as he woos investment to spur
growth. More than a decade after the Asian financial crisis
forced the nation to seek an IMF bailout, Fitch Ratings and
Moody’s Investors Service have raised Indonesia to investment
grade and the country’s growth is among the fastest in the Group
of 20 nations.  Bank Indonesia  kept its benchmark interest rate at a record
low 5.75 percent for a seventh straight meeting in September as
accelerating economic growth and inflation reduced the scope for
monetary easing to counter an export slump.  Indonesia joins South Korea and  Malaysia  in preserving
firepower this month as the European Central Bank backed
unlimited purchases of government debt to resolve the region’s
crisis and the U.S. Federal Reserve announced a third round of
quantitative easing. A declining rupiah and rising food costs
are adding to price pressures in Indonesia, where growth has
exceeded 6 percent since 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  