-- Investors Lose Money on September Bond Sale Flood
-- B y   A n d r e w   R e i e r s o n   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-09-28T10:11:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/investors-lose-money-on-september-bond-sale-flood.html
Investors are losing money on a
third of the corporate bonds sold in September, as the busiest
month for issuance since the euro crisis began exhausts bond
buyers’ appetites with $49 billion of deals.  The biggest losses were on Brisa-Auto Estradas de  Portugal 
SA and Energias de Portugal SA’s bonds, the first corporate
sales from the country in 19 months, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Buyers were burned on 35 percent of the new issues
as lower-rated borrowers joined the borrowing frenzy.  Investors piled into corporate bonds as a haven from
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and for higher-yielding
alternatives to the safest government debt. That’s pushed
borrowing costs to the lowest ever and encouraged the biggest
companies from  Spain , Italy and Portugal to raise money.  “Some issuers decided to squeeze prices to the last
dime,” said Arnaud Colombel at La Postale Asset Management in
Paris, which oversees 130 billion euros ($167 billion). “For
the most expensive, this can now turn against them.”  The total of this month’s non-financial corporate bonds
denominated in euros and pounds is the highest since 52.5
billion euros was raised in May 2009 and more than double this
year’s monthly average, the data show.  Yield Moves  Yield premiums widened on 16 billion euros of this month’s
issues by companies including Brisa, EDP and cable operator UPC
Holding BV. That’s more than a third of non-financial company
securities sold this month and compares with an average of 14
percent of sales that have lost value relative to government
debt this year.  Brisa’s 300 million euros of 6.875 percent 2018 bonds yield
695 basis points more than benchmark German government debt,
compared with an issue spread of 636, the data show. The premium
on Lisbon-based utility EDP’s 750 million euros of 5.75 percent
five-year bonds rose 30 basis points since their Sept. 14 issue
to 559.  “We are pleased with EDP’s most recent bond transaction,”
Raquel Pires Alves, a spokeswoman for the utility, said in an e-
mailed statement. “Despite recent market softness, the bond has
been showing relative resilience.”  Brisa “demonstrated that it’s capable of issuing in a
market that has been closed to Portuguese issuers and to further
reinforce the company’s liquidity position,” said Nuno
Sequeira, a spokesman for Brisa.  Rally Fades  Even as investment-grade yields hold near record lows,
rates on Europe’s riskiest debt has increased to 7.06 percent on
average, erasing the rally spurred by the  European Central
Bank ’s bond-buying plan unveiled Sept. 6. Yields on junk debt
reached a 16-month low of 6.79 percent Sept. 17, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s Euro Non-Financial High-Yield Index shows.  Investor pessimism about the ability of euro-area leaders
to resolve the debt crisis flared this week as Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to contain the country’s fiscal
crisis without a bailout and as anti-austerity protestors
marched in Madrid and  Athens .  The extra yield on 6.375 percent 2020 bonds sold by UPC,
the Dutch cable operator owned by Liberty Global Inc., widened
to 557 basis points from their sale spread of 486.  Tone Change  “The market tone changed, especially in the second half of
September as the market’s patience with Spain’s indecision on a
bailout request started to run out,” said Serafi Rodriguez, a
fixed-income trader at Morabanc in Andorra. “Premiums offered
for issuers such as EDP or Brisa versus its existing debt
haven’t been enough to offset the increase in  risk aversion .”  Spain’s 10-year yield rose to a three-week high of 6.11
percent on Sept. 27, and is currently about 5.98 percent.
Italy’s 10-year borrowing cost is 5.15 percent, up from as low
as 4.92 percent on Sept. 19.  “We’ve had a strong rally since mid-summer as credit
investors have been spending cash and cutting underweight
positions,” said Teo Lasarte, a credit strategist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in  London . “Given recent political
headlines and weak economic data, investors are feeling more
cautious heading into the fourth quarter.”  Bonds sold in primary markets typically offer a premium to
attract investors and provide buyers with some protection
against adverse market moves.  Making Money  Most deals this month made money for investors with spreads
narrowing about 12 basis points on average, Bloomberg data show.
That compares with a tightening of 49 basis points for new
issues in the year to the end of August.  The best performer is Spanish phone company Telefonica’s 1
billion euros of 5.811 percent bonds due 2017, where the yield
gap shrank 121 basis points to 422. Italian utility Enel’s 1
billion euros of 4.875 percent 2020 bonds sold on Sept. 4 now
yield 346 basis points more than government debt, down from an
issue spread of 409.  “Investors are now in a stabilization mood after buying so
much paper in a short period of time,” Alessandro Canta, the
Rome-based head of group finance at Enel. “They need now to go
back and check which names are doing well or not, and in that
sense we are keen to see our bonds remain inside the initial
pricing.”  Demand for corporate offerings is likely to remain robust
from bond investors flush with cash as bond redemptions outpace
new sales. Financial and non-financial companies have repaid
about 101 billion euros more than they have borrowed this year,
compared with an overpayment of 118 billion euros for the same
period in 2011, according to Joseph Faith, a credit strategist
at Citigroup Inc. in London.  “Barring any cataclysmic news from the peripherals, we
have the conditions to keep seeing more corporates coming to the
market,” Faith said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Reierson in London at 
 areierson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  