-- Lira Drops Most in Month as Trade Deficit Narrows, Funding Rises
-- B y   A s h   K u m a r
-- 2012-09-28T15:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/lira-drops-most-in-month-as-trade-deficit-narrows-funding-rises.html
The lira dropped the most in almost
a month, after  Turkey ’s August trade deficit narrowed and the
central bank increased the daily funding amount to the highest
in four weeks.  The lira depreciated 0.5 percent to 1.7964 per dollar by
6:42 p.m. in Istanbul, the steepest decline since Aug. 29 that
pared the currency’s quarterly gain to 0.7 percent. Yields on
two-year benchmark bonds rose 2 basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 7.58 percent at the close, bringing the drop in yields
over July-September to 89 basis points.  Turkey’s trade deficit narrowed for the 10th consecutive
month, the statistics office said today on its website. The gap
narrowed to $5.86 billion in August, compared with $8.23 billion
a year earlier. The central bank lent 7.5 billion liras at 5.75
percent in its one-week repurchase agreements auction today, the
highest since Aug. 31, and 2 billion liras in one-month repo,
ensuring lenders are well funded for a 9.5 billion lira repo
redemptions and quarterly tax payments.  “The decline in  trade balance  is a sign of a slowing
economy,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a foreign-exchange strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in emailed comments. “The
central bank has just increased again its volume at the one-week
repo auction.”  The trade shortfall was expected at $8 billion, according
to the median estimate of seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  This year’s increase in exports has been driven by sales of
gold, mostly going to  Iran  after international sanctions were
imposed on the country. Exports to the European Union, Turkey’s
biggest market, declined 9.4 percent in the first eight months
of the year to $38.1 billion. Imports in August retreated 4.8
percent from a year earlier.  “Imports are slowing because of weaker domestic
consumption,” Nguyen said. “While that certainly helps in
improving the current account deficit, it is rather questionable
if this is structural or rather cyclical. The latter seems the
more likely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ash Kumar in London at 
 akumar314@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  