-- Topix Declines to Two-Week Low on Industrial Production
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-09-28T06:32:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/japan-stocks-rise-on-euro-optimism-after-spain-vows-cuts.html
Japanese  stocks  retreated, with the
 Topix (TPX)  Index falling to a two-week low, after  industrial
production  missed estimates, signaling a worsening outlook for
manufacturers as the global slowdown deepens.  Machinery-maker  Amada Co. (6113)  slid 2.3 percent.  Advantest Corp. (6857) ,
the world’s biggest producer of memory-chip testers, sank 2.9
percent after semiconductor-manufacturer Micron Technology Inc.
reported a wider loss. Nippon Yusen K.K. fell after Japan’s top
shipping lines were downgraded to underperform by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  The Topix lost 1.1 percent to 737.42 at the 3 p.m. close in
 Tokyo , the lowest close since Sept. 11. The  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average (NKY)  fell 0.9 percent to 8,870.16 after rising as much as 0.4
percent. The gauge slid 2.6 percent for the week, extending a
1.8 percent monthly decline. Shares also fell ahead of the Bank
of Japan’s Tankan survey, which on Monday is expected to show
declining confidence among manufacturers.  “Worse-than-expected industrial production is fueling
negative sentiment,” said  Kenichi Hirano , general manager and
strategist at Tachibana Securities Co. in Tokyo. “Investors may
be selling shares on worries the Tankan may be worse than the
real economy because it’s based on a survey, and could reflect
negative public sentiment from deteriorating relations with
 China .”  Manufacturers’ shares fell after the Trade Ministry today
reported the nation’s industrial production in August fell 1.3
percent from the previous month. The median estimate of 26
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for 0.5 percent decline.  Tankan Preview  The BOJ’s quarterly Tankan index of confidence among large
manufacturers probably fell for a fourth quarter, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Japanese companies operating in China, its biggest trading
partner, have shut factories amid violent protests spurred by a
territorial dispute.  Amada fell 2.3 percent to 342 yen. Okuma Corp., a maker of
 machine tools  and other industrial machinery, slipped 1.7
percent to 461 yen.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500  were little changed
today. The gauge advanced 1 percent yesterday, halting a five-
day slump, after fewer Americans than forecast filed first-time
claims for unemployment last week. Equities rose even after data
showed that the  U.S. economy  grew 1.3 percent in the second
quarter, less than previously estimated.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government announced
its fifth austerity package in what may be a move to head off
tougher conditions as part of a potential European bailout.
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras clinched agreement with
political leaders on the bulk of a 13.5 billion-euro ($17.4
billion) budget package that’s key to receiving international
aid.  Quarterly Decline  The Topix has dropped 4.2 percent this quarter on
speculation a global wave of stimulus from the U.S., Europe,
China and Japan won’t be enough to reverse a slowdown in growth.  Chip stocks declined after Micron Technology, the largest
U.S. maker of memory chips, reported a wider fourth-quarter loss
and lower revenue as lackluster demand for personal computers
reduced sales of components.  Advantest lost 2.9 percent to 1,015 yen. The shares also
declined after the company’s investment rating was cut to
neutral from outperform at Macquarie Group Ltd., which cited a
less favorable outlook for orders in the second half. Tokyo
Electron Ltd. fell 2.2 percent to 3,325 yen.  Shipping companies led declines among the Topix’s 33
industry groups after Merrill Lynch recommended selling  Japan ’s
top biggest shipping lines on balance sheet concerns.  Nippon Yusen K.K., Japan’s top shipper by sales, slid 3.5
percent to 138 yen. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., the second biggest,
lost 3.2 percent to 182 yen. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd slipped 2
percent to 98 yen.  Aozora Buyback  Among companies that gained, Aozora Bank Ltd. climbed 3
percent to 239 yen after shareholders approved the lender’s plan
to repay taxpayers’ money and buy back as much as 100 billion
yen ($1.3 billion) in shares.  The stock fell 9 percent yesterday after announcing that
Cerberus Capital Management LP, a private-equity firm that
controls Aozora, plans to sell a stake in the bank.  -- With assistance from Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo. Editors:  Jim Powell , Jason Clenfield  To contact the reporter on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  