-- Junk Bonds in U.S. Poised for Biggest Retreat in 4 Months
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   D a v i d   H o l l e y
-- 2012-09-28T18:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/junk-bonds-in-u-s-poised-for-biggest-retreat-in-four-months.html
Speculative-grade bonds in the U.S.
are poised for their biggest weekly loss since May as buyers
withdraw money from domestic funds that buy the debt for the
first time in more than three months.  The securities lost 0.6 percent this week through yesterday
after gains in the five previous periods, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. Funds that buy the notes reported
$5 million of outflows, with investors pulling $65 million from
exchange-traded funds, according to a Sept. 27  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  report.  Yields on speculative-grade bonds closed at 7.125 percent
yesterday, up from a record low 6.948 percent reached on Sept.
19 as an unexpected drop in demand for U.S. durable goods other
than transportation signaled a slowdown in business investment
and exports. Investors sold the debt as concern mounted that the
European Central Bank’s current bailout funds would be
insufficient to prevent a sovereign default.  “There was legitimate selling for the first time,” said
Timothy Gramatovich, chief investment officer at Peritus Asset
Management LLC. “This is the first week in recent memory that
we actually saw bonds offered out there.”  Investors yanked 3.9 million shares, worth about $157
million, from State Street Corp.’s ETF that buys junk bonds on
Sept. 27, the biggest outflow since May 21, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. high-yield bond funds reported net
withdrawals of $310 million, the first decline after 13
consecutive weeks of inflows, according to Lipper.  ‘Hand-Wringing’  European Central Bank Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen
said  Greece  may need more aid, joining the International
Monetary Fund in expressing doubt that the two existing bailouts
will suffice.  Even if Greece meets its budget goals, “there could be
additional need for external financing because, for example,
growth is worse than was initially anticipated,” Asmussen said
today.  “Headlines out of  Europe  are causing people to pull back
on their riskier allocation,” said  Jeff Tjornehoj , head of
Lipper Americas Research. “I could see more hand-wringing in
Europe causing additional outflows from high yield.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
David Holley in New York at 
 dholley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  