-- Kenya Inflation Slows for 10th Month Signaling Interest Rate Cut
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-09-28T11:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/kenya-inflation-slows-for-10th-month-signaling-interest-rate-cut.html
Kenyan  inflation  slowed for the
10th consecutive month in September, increasing the scope for
the central bank to lower  interest rates .  The inflation rate in  East Africa ’s largest economy dropped
to 5.3 percent from 6.1 percent the previous month, the Nairobi-
based  Kenya  National Bureau of Statistics said today in an e-
mailed statement. In the month, prices rose 0.3 percent.  Slowing inflation may lead the central bank to cut its key
lending rate for a third time to boost demand, reversing
monetary tightening undertaken last year to curb prices and
support the shilling. The bank has cut the rate twice since
July, by a total of 5 percentage points, to 13 percent.  “There is still scope for the central bank to cut rates
this year” by at least 3 percentage points, Solomon Alubala,
head of trading at Cooperative Bank of Kenya Ltd., said by phone
before the inflation figures were released.  The Monetary Policy Committee is due to hold its next
meeting in November.  Food prices in Kenya are declining as good weather boosts
harvests, following the worst regional drought in six decades
last year, Alubala said. “The big major risk to inflation is
the upcoming elections, when typically you see the government
spending a lot more money,” he said. Kenya is scheduled to hold
general elections in March.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week said Kenya’s
monetary easing should be gradual, warning of the risk that any
domestic crop-supply disruptions could stoke inflation because
global food prices are rising. The IMF forecasts that Kenya’s
economy will grow 5 percent this year and next.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  