-- Kodak to End Consumer Inkjet Printer Sales, Cut More Jobs
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-09-28T14:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/kodak-to-stop-selling-consumer-inkjet-printers-cut-more-jobs.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) , the bankrupt
photography pioneer, plans to cut at least 200 more jobs as it
prepares to stop selling consumer inkjet printers next year,
part of a plan to turn into a commercial-printing company.  Kodak will continue to sell ink supplies to printer
customers, according to a statement today. The job cuts come in
addition to 3,700 announced earlier this year, saving the
Rochester, New York-based company a total of $340 million
annually. Kodak also is seeking to extend its exclusive right to
negotiate restructuring during bankruptcy -- a right that’s due
for review next month.  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Perez has been selling
businesses to help fund a turnaround after seeking Chapter 11
protection in January. The company, which aims to exit
bankruptcy in the first half of 2013, said earlier this month
it’s “making progress” in a restructuring that includes
selling its consumer-film, photo-kiosk and commercial-scanner
businesses and an extended effort to auction its digital-imaging
patents.  There is “significant interest” from potential buyers of
the imaging units, Kodak said. Negotiations with patent buyers
also continue, along with “development of alternatives in the
event a transaction on acceptable terms is not reached,” the
company reiterated today.  ‘Well Positioned’  Closing and shutting down businesses “will substantially
advance the transformation of our business to focus on
commercial, packaging and functional printing solutions and
enterprise services,” Perez said in the statement. “As we
complete the other key objectives of our restructuring in the
weeks ahead, we will be well positioned to emerge successfully
in 2013.”  Kodak said earlier this month that Chief Operating Officer
Philip Faraci and Chief Financial Officer Antoinette McCorvey
are leaving. Rebecca Roof, a managing director of the company’s
restructuring adviser AlixPartners, will become interim finance
chief.  Kodak filed for bankruptcy after years of burning through
cash while the rise of digital photography eroded its film
business. The company had spent $3.4 billion on restructuring
before bankruptcy, including payouts to fire 47,000 employees
since 2003, closing 13 factories that produced film, paper and
chemicals, and 130 photo laboratories. It will employ about
13,100 after this year’s job cuts are completed.  The bankruptcy case is In re Eastman Kodak Co., 12-10202,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  