-- Natural Gas to Decline as Power Demand Slackens, Survey Says
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-09-28T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/natural-gas-to-decline-as-power-demand-slackens-survey-says.html
Natural-gas  futures will fall next
week on speculation that demand from power generators will slump
with milder weather and that higher prices will prompt some
plants to switch back to coal, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Ten of 15 analysts, or 67 percent, forecast that futures on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  will drop through Oct. 5. Four,
or 27 percent, said prices will rise and one said they will stay
the same. Last week, 45 percent of participants said gas would
decline through Sept. 28.  Temperatures from the Northeast through the Midwest will be
below normal over the next eight to 14 days, according to the
 National Weather Service . Hotter-than-normal summer weather and
fuel-switching from costlier coal helped reduce a supply surplus
that expanded to a six-year high at the end of March. Gas demand
from power generators  peaks  in the third quarter.  “Power burn could possibly slide and that has more bearish
longer-term implications,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of
research with IAF Advisors in Houston.  Milder weather is reducing demand for air conditioning and
coal-fired generators “that were uncompetitive when gas was at
$2.50 and $2.75 are competitive since October closed above $3,”
he said.  Gas has rallied 41.2 cents, or 14 percent, to $3.297 per
million Btu so far this week on the Nymex, settling yesterday at
the highest price this year. October futures expired Sept. 26
and November futures became the front-month contract yesterday.
Prices are up 10 percent this year.  The high temperature in  Chicago  on Oct. 8 may be 55 degrees
Fahrenheit (13 Celsius), 11 below normal, and  Boston  may be 1
below the usual reading at 65 degrees, according to AccuWeather
Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .  Gas Consumption  Electricity generators account for 36 percent of U.S. gas
consumption, Energy Department data show. Total gas consumption
is at its highest in the first quarter when cold weather drives
demand for the heating fuel.  The combination of lower temperatures and higher coal
prices will cut the flow of gas to power generators in the
coming weeks, Cooper said. Increased heating demand may
“slightly” boost total consumption next week, he said.  Gas demand from power plants averaged a record 31.15
billion cubic feet a day in July through September and will
slump to 21.22 billion cubic feet a day in the fourth quarter,
the department said in its Sept. 11  Short-Term Energy Outlook .  U.S. inventories  expanded by 80 billion cubic feet last
week to 3.496 trillion cubic feet, higher than the five-year
average gain for the period of 76 billion, the department said
yesterday. A  supply surplus  held steady at 8.6 percent above the
historical norm for the week after being whittled down from 61
percent on March 30.  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 49 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  Bloomberg’s survey of natural-gas analysts and traders asks
for an assessment of whether Nymex natural-gas futures will
probably rise, fall or remain neutral in the coming week. This
week’s results were:  RISE   FALL   NEUTRAL  4      10     1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  