-- New Zealand Curbs Gas Emissions as Polluters Use More Renewables
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-09-28T02:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/new-zealand-curbs-gas-emissions-as-polluters-use-more-renewables.html
New Zealand ’s energy industry
reduced its greenhouse gas emissions for the third straight year
in 2011 as polluters decreased their reliance on coal and gas in
favor of renewable sources.  Companies cut their emissions by 1.9 percent last year,
according to a report on the Ministry of Business, Innovation
and Employment’s  web site . The fall was largely driven by a 10
percent drop in electricity emissions after high rainfall and
increased use of wind and geothermal power curbed natural gas
emissions, the report said.  New Zealand is seeking to harness more of its renewable
power sources after the energy industry’s emissions surged by a
third in the last two decades from  population growth  and more
cars and road freight. That’s the fifth-highest growth in energy
pollution among  United Nations  Framework Convention on Climate
Change members over the period, even as the nation’s emissions
peaked in 2008, according to the report.  “Over the last decade the amount of energy being generated
by wind and geothermal has grown significantly, causing growth
in emissions from electricity generation to flatten,” Bryan
Field, acting manager of the Ministry’s energy information and
modeling group, said in a separate e-mailed statement.  Christchurch Earthquake  The Pacific nation’s lower emissions last year were also
driven by reduced electricity demand in Christchurch, the  South
Island ’s biggest city, where earthquakes in September 2010 and
February 2011 wrecked much of the city center.  In July, New Zealand delayed measures that would have
raised the carbon price for emitters. The decision came a day
after  Australia  introduced a fixed price more than twice what
New Zealand emitters pay.  The nation, which got about 74 percent of its electricity
from renewable sources in 2010, is focusing on economic growth
as it seeks to recover from the earthquakes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  