-- NYC Best: Jay-Z at Barclays, Neil Young, Foo Fighters
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-09-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/nyc-best-jay-z-at-barclays-neil-young-foo-fighters.html
Fly over buildings and throw light
balls as you explore your extraordinary powers. “Superhero” is
an interactive installation by Wildbytes at this year’s Dumbo
Arts Festival, now under way.  “Codex Dynamic” has video artists projecting large-scale
artworks on the Manhattan Bridge Anchorage and Archway.  There are reflective floating sculptures in the  East River ,
a monster drawing rally at the Dumbo Arts Center, “Flex” dance
performances, open studio visits and plenty of projects for
kids.  Runs through Sept. 30 in Dumbo,  Brooklyn . Information:
 http://www.dumboartsfestival.com .  The hottest chile pepper in the world -- India’s bhut
jolokia -- makes an appearance at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.  The Herb Garden will sport Bolivian rainbow, bishop’s hat,
shishitu, pimento and cayenne, while artisans give you a taste
of their hot concoctions.  There will also be performances from spice-loving cultures,
including West Africa’s Kulu Mele, Seoul’s Sonagi Project,
Chicha Libre from Peru and the world fusion music of Hazmat
Modine during the 20th annual Chile Pepper Fiesta.  At 1000 Washington Ave., Brooklyn. Information: +1-718-623-
7200; http://www.bbg.org .  Saturday Night  Neil Young  with Crazy Horse,  Foo Fighters , the Black Keys,
Band of Horses and K’Naan are performing on the Great Lawn in
 Central Park .  Coinciding with the UN General Assembly, it’s a celebration
of the progress already made in eradicating poverty around the
world, as well as a drive for further action.  Tickets were distributed by lottery to people involved in
the movement, but VIP seats are still available.  The festival will also live stream on various sites.  Information:  http://globalfestival.com .  Rapper Jay-Z heads is back in Brooklyn for a series of
concerts to inaugurate the $1 billion Barclays Center.  He’s starring at the brand-new 19,000 seat arena, with
plenty of premium viewing.  Jay-Z is co-owner of the Brooklyn Nets, which begin playing
at Barclays Nov. 1, so expect to also see him courtside.  Future concerts:  Barbra Streisand , Justin Bieber and Lady Gaga.  At 620 Atlantic Ave., Brooklyn. Information: +1-877-772-
5849;  http://www.barclayscenter.com .  Sunday Matinee  Pay a little visit to George and Martha’s house: Tracy Letts and Amy Morton star as the academic couple who have fun
pulverizing one another and anyone else in range.  The Steppenwolf Theatre production of  Edward Albee ’s
“Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf” is in previews, set to open
on Oct. 13, the 50th anniversary of the play’s first
performance.  Carrie Coon and Madison Dirks are the young couple who get
caught in the crossfire.  At the Booth Theatre, 222 W. 45th St. Information: +1-212-
239-6200;  http://www.shubertorganization.com/theatres/booth.asp .  For a hearty meal, head to Becco, Lidia Bastianich’s west-
side eatery for some osso buco.  355 W. 46th St. Information: +1-212-397-7597.  Sunday Evening  “Fall for Dance” is at City Center with diverse programs.  Today it’s the  Martha Graham  Dance Company, Juilliard
Dance, American Ballet Theatre and the Hong Kong Ballet.  Choreography is by Martha Graham, Pam Tanowitz, Twyla Tharp
and Peter Quanz.  Runs through Oct. 13 at 131 W. 55th St. Information: +1-
212-581-1212;  http://www.nycitycenter.org .  Looking Ahead  After a few nail-biting moments, the Chicago Symphony
Orchestra settled a musician’s strike and is heading to  New York 
to open the season at  Carnegie Hall  on Wednesday, Oct. 3.  For the gala, Music Director Riccardo Muti conducts Carl
Orff’s “Carmina Burana.”  The program will be broadcast on WQXR in New York and on
classical music stations around the country and live streamed on
www.wqxr.org and www.carnegiehall.org/wqxr.  At 57th St. and 7th Ave. Information: +1-212-247-7800;
 http://www.carnegiehall.org .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include the Lewis Lapham  podcast  and  Greg
Evans  on  film .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 