-- Obama Probably Will Combine Agencies in Second Term, Blank Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-09-28T19:12:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/obama-probably-will-combine-agencies-in-second-term-blank-says.html
President  Barack Obama  will
probably revisit his proposal to consolidate several U.S.
agencies including those handling trade and commerce if he wins
a second term, Acting Commerce Secretary  Rebecca Blank  said.  Obama would ask Congress to give him the authority to
streamline agencies including the U.S. Trade Representative’s
office, the U.S. Export-Import Bank and trade functions of the
Commerce Department, Blank said today at an event in Washington.  If lawmakers approve, “I believe that there will be a
major effort to bring a reorganization of Commerce forward that
integrates a lot of these other agencies in,” she said.  Obama in January asked Congress to consolidate some
executive branch offices. In addition to those related to trade,
the president is interested in creating an agency for data,
including the Census Bureau and  Bureau of Economic Analysis , and
a separate agency for innovation, which would include the U.S.
Patent and  Trademark Office , Blank said.  The acting Commerce Secretary discussed other themes,
including manufacturing, during her remarks today at the  Council
on Foreign Relations .  “We have a unique opportunity to attract business
investment into the  United States  in the immediate future,
particularly in manufacturing,” she said.  A decline in natural gas prices since 2008, due to
increased production from shale, is helping to promote
investment in manufacturing in the U.S. and overseas, Blank
said.  ‘Enormous Advantage’  “This provides us with an enormous advantage as our
natural gas costs drop relative to other countries,” she said.  Natural gas futures prices were trading at $3.310 per
million British thermal units at 2:19 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , down from a five-year high of $13.577 on
July 3, 2008.  Blank said foreign investment in the U.S. from Europe and
Asia will probably increase, due in part to a debt crisis in
Europe.  “Chinese investment is very much welcome,” Blank said,
while acknowledging that there are security risks from some
nations including China.  “We do have to be cautious when there are certain
countries where that investment may pose a problem for us,” she
said.  Obama today barred a Chinese-owned company from building
wind farms near a U.S. Navy installation in Oregon, the first
time in 22 years that a president has blocked a transaction on
national-security grounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in  Washington  at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  