-- Obama Confers With Netanyahu as Romney Faults Mideast Policy
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-09-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/obama-confers-with-netanyahu-by-telephone-on-pressuring-iran.html
President  Barack Obama  and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  both spoke with Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu by phone yesterday amid a campaign
debate over how to stop  Iran  from getting a nuclear weapon.  Obama’s 20-minute call with Netanyahu, the president’s only
publicly announced one-on-one discussion with a foreign leader
this week during the annual United Nations General Assembly in
New York, followed weeks of tensions between the two over how
aggressively to confront Iran. Within hours, Romney spoke with
Netanyahu on a day when the Republican presidential nominee
again criticized Obama’s handling of turmoil in the Middle East.  The U.S. and Israel are in “full agreement” on the goal
of preventing Iran from getting a nuclear weapon, the White
House said in a statement. Netanyahu “welcomed President
Obama’s commitment before the United Nations General Assembly to
do what we must to achieve that goal.”  Obama spoke to the General Assembly on Sept. 25.  Romney, who has repeatedly criticized Obama for not meeting
with Netanyahu while the prime minister is in the U.S., told
reporters after speaking with the Israeli leader that while he
believed diplomacy can resolve the standoff with Iran, military
action must not be ruled out.  “We spoke about his assessment of where the red line ought
to be drawn, and my own views with regards to Iran,” Romney
said of the conversation.  Romney’s Criticism  Romney has sought to use signs of differences between Obama
and Netanyahu over Iran to raise doubts with American Jewish
voters about the president’s commitment to  Israel  and his
ability to manage turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa.
The Obama administration, in yesterday’s statement, said the
U.S. alliance with Israel is “unshakeable.”  Netanyahu has been pushing the U.S. and western nations to
set a “red line” at which point Iran’s nuclear development
would warrant a military response. Obama, while urging more time
for negotiations and for economic sanctions to pressure Iran,
has said the U.S. won’t allow the Islamic Republic to build a
nuclear weapon.  Netanyahu, in a Sept. 27 speech to the General Assembly,
held up a cartoon-style drawing of a bomb as a prop to get
international attention for his call for the U.S. to issue a
more direct warning to Iran.  “By next spring, at most next summer, at current
enrichment rates, they will have finished the medium enrichment
and moved on to the final stage,” Netanyahu said. “From there
it’s only a few months, possibly a few weeks, before they get
enough enriched uranium for the first bomb.”  Obama Meeting  Obama and Netanyahu both attended the UN session in New
York this week, though not at the same time. Israeli media
reported earlier this month that the U.S. president rebuffed
Netanyahu’s request for a meeting, which Obama aides denied. The
administration blamed schedule conflicts. Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton met with Netanyahu for 75 minutes after the
prime minister’s UN speech.  Obama and Netanyahu spoke for about an hour Sept. 11 after
Netanyahu told reporters in  Jerusalem  that nations that “refuse
to put a red line before Iran don’t have the moral right to
place a red light before Israel.”  Romney suggested that Obama has been moving his way by
making stronger statements about Iran. He said he would take a
tougher stance than Obama has, seeking an international
indictment of Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad for
incitement to genocide and treating its diplomats “like the
pariah they are.”  UN Speech  Netanyahu’s “views were made very clear in his United
Nations speech, and we very much have the same interest, to make
sure that Iran does not develop nuclear capability, which would
threaten the existence of Israel, threaten devastation,
potentially, in other nations of the world,” Romney said.  Like Obama, Romney said he expects the matter can be
resolved through negotiations. “I certainly hope that we can
prevent any military actions from having to be taken,” he said.  Romney made his comments to reporters as his campaign plane
headed to Bedford, Massachusetts, for a fundraiser held nearby.  Earlier yesterday, Romney continued to blast Obama for
having referred in an interview with CBS’s “60 Minutes”
program to recent anti-American protests and attacks in Muslim
countries and the upheaval in  Syria  as “bumps in the road” to
democratizing the region. The U.S. ambassador to Libya, Chris Stevens, and three other Americans were killed during an assault
on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya.  Mideast Turmoil  “I don’t consider 20 or 30,000 people dying in Syria just
a bump in the road, or a Muslim Brotherhood president in  Egypt  a
bump in the road,” Romney said at the Valley Forge Military
Academy and College in Wayne,  Pennsylvania . “I don’t consider
the killing of our diplomats in Libya as a bump in the road, and
I sure as heck don’t consider Iran becoming nuclear a bump in
the road.”  Romney is trying to undercut Obama’s support from Jewish
voters as polls show him trailing the president nationally. Both
campaigns have been increasing their focus on  Florida , a state
where Jewish residents are an important voting bloc.  Vice President Joe Biden, campaigning yesterday in Florida,
which has 29 electoral votes, said Romney can’t win the general
election if he loses there.  “We win Florida, this race is over,” the vice president
said.  Foreign policy and national security remain areas of
strength for Obama. By a margin of 49 percent to 38 percent,
respondents to a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Sept. 21-24
said Obama would be better suited than Romney to cope with
unforeseen events in the Middle East. Forty-nine percent endorse
the Obama administration’s approach to Iran.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Bedford,  Massachusetts  at  jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  