-- Obama Bars Chinese-Owned Company From Building Wind-Farm
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-09-29T03:47:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/obama-bars-chinese-owned-company-from-building-wind-farm.html
President  Barack Obama  barred a
Chinese-owned company from building wind farms near a U.S. Navy
base in  Oregon , the first time in 22 years a president has
blocked a transaction as a national security risk.  Obama ordered Delaware-based Ralls Corp. to remove all
property and installations from its sites within two weeks and
divest all of its interests in the wind-farm project within 90
days. In the area around the sites, the Navy conducts training
for bombing, electronic combat maneuvers and develops drones,
according to the base’s website.  “The president’s action demonstrates the administration’s
commitment to protecting national security while maintaining the
 United States ’ longstanding policy on open investment,” the
 U.S. Treasury  said yesterday in a statement.  The ruling, coming amid campaign charges by Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney  that Obama has been too soft on  China ,
shouldn’t be viewed as a precedent for any other investment from
that country, Treasury said.  It replaces an interim order in July by the government’s
Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S., or CFIUS, which
reviews acquisitions of domestic companies by non-U.S. entities.
CFIUS told the company to stop operations and keep out of
development sites it bought near the Naval Weapons Systems
Training Facility Boardman, according to a lawsuit Ralls filed
on Sept. 12 in federal court to overturn the order.  Presidential Referral  CFIUS rulings are rarely referred to the president before
being resolved some other way, according to a panel report to
Congress covering the period from 2008 to 2010.  The last transaction blocked on CFIUS grounds was by then-
president  George H.W. Bush  in  1990  in the proposed acquisition
of MAMCO Manufacturing Inc., a maker of motors and generators
based in  Washington  state, by China National Aero-Technology and
Export Corp.  “The project poses no national security threat whatsoever,
and the president’s order offers no explanation otherwise,” Tim Xia, a lawyer with Morris, Manning & Martin LLP, who represents
Ralls, said in a statement. “Scores of other wind turbines
already operate in the area where Ralls’s project is located.”  Ralls will continue to press its suit, he said.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in Washington
ordered both sides to present a status report by Oct. 1.  Jackson already said she can’t review the president’s
decision because of the deference that she’s legally obliged to
give the president on national security issues. She urged the
government and Ralls to try to reach a deal.  ‘Mitigation Agreement’  “I thought this case would have been ripe for some sort of
mitigation agreement, which would have limited access by the
parties but still allow them to obtain the benefit of their
purchase,” Greg Jacobs, a lawyer with  Reed Smith LLP  in
Washington, said in an interview before the announcement. “Some
will view this as a closed-door to Chinese investment.”  CFIUS received a report on the threat posed by the
transaction from the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence, in addition to making its own analysis, the
Treasury Department said.  Ralls, which is owned by executives of China-based Sany
Group Co., was seeking to place Sany-made  wind turbines  at the
Oregon installations after purchasing land and other rights
earlier this year. The assets consist of four locations, all of
which are near or within the restricted Navy airspace, Treasury
said.  Sany Group  Closely held Sany Group is the owner of China’s biggest
machinery maker. Dawei Duan, Sany’s chief financial officer and
Jialiang Wu, a vice president of the group and general manager
of Sany Electric Co., a group unit, own Ralls, according to
court filings.  Calls to the head of media relations at  Sany Heavy Industry
Co. (600031)  went unanswered today. The Shanghai-listed Sany Heavy
Industry is Sany Group’s main listing entity. Sany is based in
Changsha City in  Hunan province .  Ralls bought the wind-farm assets earlier this year without
reporting the transaction to CFIUS, according to a U.S. filing
in the case.  CFIUS is an interagency committee headed by Treasury
Secretary  Timothy Geithner  that reviews the national security
implications of transactions that could lead to a non-U.S.
citizen controlling a U.S. business. The heads of the
departments of Justice,  Homeland Security , Commerce, Defense,
State, and Energy, among others, sit on the committee. The
panel’s recommendations can be enforced only by the president
under the law.  Chinese Companies  Acquisitions by other Chinese companies have been blocked
by CFIUS. Chinese telephone-equipment maker Huawei Technologies
Co. and Bain Capital Partners LLC dropped a bid to buy computer-
equipment maker 3Com Corp. in 2008 after U.S. officials opposed
the transaction. Last year, Huawei unwound the purchase of
patents from a computer-services company, 3Leaf Systems Inc.,
after U.S. objections.  Executives from Huawei and another telephone-equipment
maker, ZTE Corp., were questioned by lawmakers in Washington
earlier this month about their efforts to expand in the U.S.  In other transactions, state-controlled Chinese oil company
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  made an $18.5 billion bid for U.S. oil producer
Unocal Corp in 2005 and later withdrew the offer in the face of
opposition from U.S. lawmakers.  In 2006, Dubai Ports World, a state-owned company in the
 United Arab Emirates , acquired commercial operations at six U.S.
ports when it bought a U.K.-based company. While CFIUS approved
the deal, Dubai Ports sold the operations after U.S. lawmakers
objected to the foreign ownership.  The case is Ralls Corp. v. Committee on Foreign Investment
in the U.S., 1:12-cv-01513, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  