-- Mobius Bullish on China Coal as Valuations Rise From Lows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-28T04:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/mobius-bullish-on-china-coal-as-valuations-rise-from-lows-1-.html
Chinese coal stocks are rebounding
from their cheapest levels on record as investors including  Mark Mobius  bet that demand for the fuel will recover as winter
approaches and inventories are trimmed.  The CSI 300 Energy Index, which gets 75 percent of its
value from coal producers, has dropped 15 percent in the past
six months, as prices of the fuel sank to the lowest level since
October 2009. That’s more than the 8 percent slump in the wider
CSI 300 Index. Shares of the four biggest coal miners may gain
an average 25 percent over the next year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “These companies are not only mining but also producing
power and the demand for power is insatiable in  China  and
everywhere else in the world,” said Mobius. The Hong Kong-based
executive chairman of the Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group,
which manages about $40 billion in assets, said he’s “bullish”
on coal companies.  Energy stocks  trade  at 11.2 times estimated earnings, after
touching 10.2 times on Aug. 31, the lowest level since at least
2007, based on weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. Coal prices
have stabilized and may recover in the fourth quarter, according
to China International Capital Corp., the top-ranked brokerage
for China research by Asiamoney magazine, and UOB Kay-Hian Ltd.  Coal demand has weakened as China’s economic growth
moderated, hitting 7.6 percent in the three months ended June,
the slowest pace since 2009 and a sixth quarterly deceleration.
Gross domestic product may cool to 7.4 percent this quarter
before rebounding to 7.7 percent in the fourth quarter and 7.9
percent in the first period of 2013, according to the median
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Falling Prices  Ten consecutive months of contraction in manufacturing, as
measured by a  purchasing managers  survey released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics, has also eroded downstream
demand for the fuel and helped drive the average benchmark  price 
for China’s power-station coal to as low as 627.5  yuan  ($99.20)
per ton, according to weekly data from the  China Coal (601898)  Transport
& Distribution Association.  Prices, which were last at 630 yuan per ton on Sept. 23,
may be poised for a seasonal rebound. Chinese thermal-coal
prices have gained in September and October in each of the past
three years. They fell in 2008 amid the global financial crisis.  “Demand for thermal coal would certainly increase as
winter nears, and it would be a good signal for the industry,”
Wang Cheng, a Shenzhen-based analyst at Ping An Securities Co.,
said Sept. 5 in a telephone interview.  ‘Meaningful Recovery’  Coal prices may stage “a meaningful recovery” late this
quarter or in the fourth quarter as the economy stabilizes and
after companies cut output, according to Cai Hongyu, an analyst
at CICC. Prices may rise 3 percent in the fourth quarter to 650
yuan as utilities increase stockpiling amid a drop in supplies,
 Helen Lau , UOB’s Hong Kong-based analyst, said in an e-mailed
note Sept. 20.  China Shenhua Energy Co. (601088) , the nation’s biggest producer of
the fuel, added as much as 2.3 percent to 23.03 yuan in Shanghai
trading today. The stock has dropped 10 percent over the past
six months and reached the lowest level in more than two years
this month.  The company’s net income is forecast to climb 3.4 percent
in 2012 to 47.2 billion yuan, and may rise 5.6 percent to 49.9
billion yuan in 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shenhua Energy is looking to buy more coal-fired  power
plants  in developed areas and is speeding construction of some
projects including extending the capacity of its Heidaigou and
Ha’er Wusu mines, Company Secretary Huang Qing said on Sept. 11
in  Hong Kong . The company is able to run its mines profitably
even as coal prices fall, and expects prices to rebound to about
650 yuan a ton in the fourth quarter, Huang said.  Opportunity to Expand  “They will be growing and they are expanding overseas as
well,” said Templeton’s Mobius, whose funds currently hold
shares of Shenhua,  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (600188)  and China Coal Energy
Co. “The slowdown that we’ve seen in global markets means
there’s an opportunity for these companies to buy mines at low
cost.”  All 26 analysts tracking Shenhua’s Shanghai-traded A-shares
have the equivalent of a buy rating on the company and an
average 12-month share-price forecast of 28.12 yuan, up 25
percent from yesterday’s close, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Datong, Yanzhou Coal  China Coal, the second largest, and Datong Coal Industry
Co. may gain 21 percent, and 14 percent, respectively, according
to the analyst forecasts. Yanzhou Coal shares are forecast to
surge 38 percent, the data show. The stocks each gained at least
1 percent today.  A rebound may be limited as the economy struggles to
recover from the slowest expansion in three years and the
government encourages alternative energy use to cut pollution.  Hydroelectric generation climbed 48 percent to 94.4 billion
kilowatt-hours in August, following a record number of typhoons
in China. Thermal output slid 6.3 percent during that month,
according to the China Electricity Council.  “It wouldn’t be good to invest in the coal industry in the
coming six months,” He Wei, an analyst focusing on the coal
industry at Bocom International Holdings Co., said in a Sept. 6
telephone interview. “The unexpected slowdown of the economy
has led to severe problems of overcapacity, while demand is
decreasing.”  Those concerns may already be reflected in share prices. Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co.,
sold shares of coal companies earlier this year and is now
optimistic on the industry in the next three months.  “The destocking cycle is shorter than other industries,
and the performance would bolster its growth,” Wu, whose
company oversees $280 million of assets, said in a Sept. 12
telephone interview. “The price of coal will increase and the
share prices will rise.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Raymond Liu in Beijing at 
 rliu118@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  