-- Ohio High Court Declines to Rule on Legality of JobsOhio
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-09-28T20:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/ohio-high-court-declines-to-rule-on-legality-of-jobsohio.html
Ohio’s Supreme Court declined to
rule on the constitutionality of legislation creating JobsOhio,
an economic development program that would assume responsibility
for wholesale liquor sales in the state.  The court said in an  opinion  today that it didn’t have
jurisdiction to decide the question. A ruling that JobsOhio is
legal would clear the way for the sale of $1.4 billion in
taxable bonds to pay for the transfer of the state’s wholesale
liquor enterprise for 25 years to fund the entity.  The administration of Republican Governor  John Kasich  filed
a complaint Aug. 10 seeking to clarify the legality of JobsOhio
after separate court challenges. The Supreme Court was asked to
find the program legal and to make the director of Ohio’s
Commerce Department transfer the liquor franchise. The court
dismissed the case, saying JobsOhio could ask elsewhere for a
declaration that the program is constitutional.  “We will not decide constitutional claims raised by
parties who seek an advisory declaratory judgment for which they
have adequate remedies in the ordinary course of law,” a
majority of the justices wrote. Two justices dissented.  While JobsOhio “obviously would have preferred the court
to weigh in,” the decision “isn’t a barrier to our mission to
help create jobs in  Ohio ,” spokeswoman Laura Jones said in an
e-mail. She declined to say whether JobsOhio would seek a lower-
court ruling or proceed with the bond sale.  Liquor Profits  While Ohio doesn’t have government-run liquor stores, it
buys and distributes alcohol to retailers. Liquor profits in
fiscal 2012 were $251.4 million, up from $237 million in 2011
and $229 million in 2010, according to the Ohio Commerce
Department.  JobsOhio has agreed to pay the state $500 million for the
transfer of liquor profits, an estimated $800 million to retire
debt backed by the liquor money and $100 million for economic
revitalization projects previously approved and funded by liquor
profits, according to the Commerce Department.  The state anticipates about $100 million will be available
yearly to spend on  job creation . The state’s economy is
improving after losing 556,700 jobs from 2000 to 2010, according
to federal data. Ohio’s  jobless rate  was 7.2 percent in August,
compared with 8.1 percent  nationally .  An  Ohio appeals court  on June 14 upheld a lower court
rejection of a challenge to JobsOhio by two Democratic lawmakers
and ProgressOhio, a Columbus nonprofit group. Opponents said
JobsOhio violated the state constitution by having public
dollars invested in a private entity that would spend government
revenue secretly and free from accountability.  Complaint Dismissed  Their complaint was dismissed by a Franklin County judge in
December on the grounds that they didn’t have the right to sue,
which the appellate court affirmed. The lawmakers and
ProgressOhio filed a notice of appeal July 27 with the Ohio
 Supreme Court .  Brian Rothenberg, the executive director of ProgressOhio,
said he hopes the state will seek a court ruling about the
constitutionality of JobsOhio.  “My fear is they will try to move forward with this
program with constitutional questions hovering over it,”
Rothenberg said in a telephone interview.  The largest bond sale by Ohio issuers was about
$5.5 billion in tax-exempt securities in 2007 by the Buckeye
Tobacco Settlement Financing Authority, according to the office.  The case is State ex rel. JobsOhio v. Goodman, No. 2012-
Ohio-4425, Supreme Court of Ohio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at   mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 