-- Sony to Buy Olympus Stake as Hirai Seeks Revival From Losses
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-09-28T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/olympus-s-directors-approve-sony-tie-up-plan-official-says.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Japan ’s largest
consumer-electronics exporter, will invest 50 billion yen ($645
million) in  Olympus Corp. (7733)  as part of its strategy to move into
the medical-equipment business.  The two companies will form a joint venture to make
endoscopes and other medical devices, according to finance
ministry filings yesterday. Olympus is the world’s largest
endoscope maker with a 70 percent market share.  Sony President Kazuo Hirai set a goal of entering into new
businesses when he took over in April with the company reeling
from four years of  losses . The investment will help Olympus,
which admitted to a 13-year accounting fraud last year, shore up
its capital ratio as it recovers from the scandal that led the
company to  restate earnings  and replace its  entire board .  “There can be synergies between the two companies as
Sony’s image sensors can be used in endoscopes,” said  Yuji Fujimori , a Tokyo-based analyst at Barclays Plc. “Still, it may
take time for their businesses to bring results as medical
equipment usually needs regulatory approval before going on
sale.”  Two Transactions  Shares of  Sony fell  1.1 percent to 919 yen in Tokyo trading
yesterday, before the announcement. The stock has declined 34
percent this year. Olympus gained 1.7 percent, the highest level
in more than week, to 1,520 yen.  Sony will buy an 11.46 percent stake in Olympus and become
its largest  shareholder  in two tranches. In the first, to be
done by Oct. 23, Japan’s biggest consumer-electronics exporter
will purchase 13.1 million shares at 1,454 yen apiece, costing
19 billion yen. In the second tranche, Sony will buy 21.3
million shares at the same price, costing  31 billion yen . This
will be completed by Feb. 28.  The  share sale  was divided in two transactions because of
antitrust regulations, they said.  The two companies will set up a joint venture by the end of
this year to develop, make and sell new endoscopes and other
medical devices. Sony will hold 51 percent of the venture and
Olympus 49 percent.  Sony and Olympus also agreed to make efforts to elect one
director, selected by Sony, into Olympus’s board, according to a
joint statement.  Restating Earnings  Olympus restated five years of earnings in December and
took a $1.3 billion cut in its net assets after admitting it
paid inflated fees on takeovers and overpaid for three Japanese
companies to conceal past investment losses.  The company wants to increase its capital ratio -- the
ratio of equity capital to total assets -- to more than 30
percent by March 2017 from 2.2 percent as of the end of June.
President Hiroyuki Sasa in June said a tie-up may help
accelerate growth in its camera and medical businesses.  Sony, the maker of PlayStation  game consoles  and Cyber-shot
cameras, wants to speed up a move into health equipment by using
the edge its image sensors have over rivals, Hirai said in April.
Sony’s medical business has the potential to be one of its main
sources of profit in the future, he said.  Sony plans to generate 50 billion yen in  annual sales  from
printers, monitors, cameras and recorders for the medical
industry in the year ending March 2015, he said then.  Hirai’s Plans  The company last year acquired Micronics Inc., a Redmond,
Washington-based developer of devices used for disease diagnosis,
treatment monitoring and blood testing, for an undisclosed
amount. Sony may purchase more firms to expand in life-science
businesses, the company said in April.  Sony, which is cutting  10,000 jobs  to return to profit, is
spending 80 billion yen to boost its production capacity of
complementary metal-oxide semiconductors, or CMOS, by one-third
for 2013. The sensors, used in smartphones and compact cameras,
also can be used in endoscopes, the company said in January.  Olympus shares  have more than tripled in the past 10 months.
The stock collapsed since the board fired president  Michael Woodford  on Oct. 14 after he questioned fees paid by the company
for takeovers.  Net assets of Olympus fell to 23 billion yen in the three
months ended June from 48 billion yen in the year ended March 31,
the company said in August. The net loss widened to 4.5 billion
yen in the three months ended June 30, compared with a 1.4
billion yen loss a year earlier.  Olympus is also cutting 2,700 jobs, or 7 percent of its
workforce, and on Aug. 24 said it agreed to sell its subsidiary
ITX Corp.’s telecommunication business for 53 billion yen to
boost capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  