-- Tombini Classmate Reappointed as Colombia Central Bank Chief
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-09-28T22:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/tombini-classmate-reappointed-as-colombia-central-bank-chief-1-.html
Colombia ’s central bank board today
appointed Jose Dario Uribe for a final four-year term as the
institution’s general manager.  Uribe, 53, has worked at the central bank since 1993, and
has lead the institution since 2005. He received his doctorate
in economics from the  University of Illinois  at Urbana-
Champaign, where he studied alongside Brazilian central bank
President Alexandre Tombini. Before joining the central bank,
Uribe was an economist at the country’s National Federation of
Coffee Growers, or Fedecafe.  Under Uribe, the central bank’s biggest achievement has
been to reduce inflation to the mid-point of its target range,
and anchor inflation expectations at that level, central bank
co-director Cesar Vallejo said in a telephone interview.  Consumer prices rose  3.11 percent  in August from a year
earlier, close to the central bank’s goal. Colombia targets
inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage point.
Inflation will end this year at 3 percent, according to the
median estimate in a  central bank survey  of 39 economists this
month, up from the previous month’s forecast of 2.95 percent.  “The results show how well he’s done,” said  Camilo Perez ,
the head analyst at Banco de Bogota, the nation’s second-biggest
bank. “Inflation is under control, the economy is stable and
financial risk has been reduced. Growth had a boost from
monetary policy when it was needed, and when it was strong, he
raised rates.”  At its September policy meeting today, the central bank
held its  benchmark interest rate  at 4.75 percent, after cutting
it in July and August, citing the weak global economy. Policy
makers also extended a program of $20 million daily dollar
purchases through March 29, from a previous scheduled end date
of Nov. 2.  Under Colombian law, central bank chiefs can serve no more
than three terms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  