-- Money Fund Dealmaking Resumes After Geithner Breaks Logjam
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u ,   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-09-28T20:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/money-fund-deal-making-resumes-after-geithner-breaks-u-s-logjam.html
One month ago, a U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission proposal to tighten rules for the $2.6
trillion money-market mutual fund industry was declared dead.
Now, it’s coming back to life.  The revival was sparked by Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who added fuel to a new round of dealmaking among
regulators, funds and banks when he used the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act
to force the issue back onto the SEC’s agenda.  The money-market mutual-fund industry, which provides
critical short-term financing for companies and financial firms,
pushed against the rules in the first round and could still be
successful in derailing them, analysts said.  Regulators “are still in the game. They found a way to
keep this one alive,” said Stephen Myrow, managing director at
ACG Analytics Inc., an investment research firm in  Washington .
“That doesn’t necessarily mean that proponents of strong reform
will get what they want in the end.”  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  last month gave up on a plan to
strengthen regulation of the funds after three of the agency’s
five commissioners told her they opposed it. One of those
commissioners, Daniel Gallagher, said this week that he probably
would vote for a new version.  Geithner’s move -- his first under Financial Stability
Oversight Council powers created by Dodd-Frank -- puts the ball
back in the SEC’s court. If the SEC doesn’t pass new rules,
Geithner said in a  letter  yesterday, FSOC should designate
activities of  money market funds  a systemic threat, effectively
ordering the agency to take action.  FSOC Vote  FSOC, a panel of regulators led by Geithner, voted today to
move closer to designating some non-bank financial companies as
systemically important, the Treasury Department said in a
statement. “The council also discussed ongoing efforts to
support reform of money-market mutual funds and has asked staff
to work on a recommendation for the council to consider at its
November meeting,” the agency said.  The council also has the authority to designate individual
firms or their payment, clearing and settlement activities as
systemically important, which would put them under heightened
government supervision.  Geithner recommended that the SEC consider three steps to
reduce the risk funds might pose to the financial system:
floating net asset values, requiring funds to hold capital
buffers of “adequate size,” and imposing capital and enhanced
liquidity standards, possibly with redemption fees. The changes
are similar to those proposed by Schapiro.  Compromise Plan  The SEC is already laying the ground for compromise and
passage of a new plan. In response to a request on Sept. 17 from
the three commissioners, SEC staff members have begun studying
whether the rules could disrupt money market funds and short-
term credit markets, according to two people familiar with the
matter. The study could be completed within six weeks.  “People have to come back to the table and talk about the
issue and be willing to put something out for public comment and
debate,” Schapiro said today in an interview with  Trish Regan 
on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart.” The SEC is “willing
to engage with the industry and see if we can find a way
forward.”  The SEC, along with the Fed and Treasury Department, has
pressed to make money funds safer since the September 2008
collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary Fund, which
triggered an industrywide run and helped freeze credit markets.
The crisis calmed only after the Treasury guaranteed
shareholders against losses and the Fed began buying fund assets
at face value to help meet redemptions.  Act Quickly  Schapiro has argued that the funds’ $1 share price
encourages investors to flee at the first sign of trouble
because those who act quickly can sell shares at $1 each even if
the net asset value has dropped below that level. Her proposal
offered two options: a capital buffer combined with some limits
on redemptions, or a floating share price.  “The chairman has long believed that addressing the
susceptibility of money market funds to destabilizing runs is a
critical piece of unfinished business from the financial
crisis,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in a statement.  While the fund industry has been united in its general
opposition to Schapiro’s plan, individual companies have staked
out different positions on the options and made varying
overtures to the SEC on what new rules might be acceptable.  BlackRock Proposal  New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest asset
manager, released a new proposal today, a signal that some firms
are still actively looking for a resolution. The plan, detailed
in a note sent to clients and regulators, backed the concept of
redemption “gates” included in Geithner’s letter.  BlackRock suggested that funds be authorized to impose
“standby liquidity fees” when their net asset value dipped
below $.9975 -- half-way to breaking the buck -- or if its
seven-day liquidity fell below 7.5 percent. Liquidity represents
the portion of a fund that can be paid out to clients in cash
without selling securities in that period.  The company also recommended that some of the SEC’s 2010
changes, which tightened rules on asset quality, maturity and
liquidity, be applied globally.  In the paper, BlackRock repeated its earlier position that
the fund industry could survive with a floating share price
provided that market pricing was applied only to some securities
and the  Internal Revenue Service  agreed not to treat price
fluctuations as taxable events. Still, the firm said it wouldn’t
protect investors if there were mass withdrawals.  Federated Investors  Other providers disagree.  Christopher Donahue , chief
executive officer of Pittsburgh-based  Federated Investors Inc. (FII) ,
has long said the floating NAV would destroy money funds.  Talks between the SEC and the  Investment Company Institute ,
the mutual fund trade group, broke down in December 2011.
Executives from BlackRock, Vanguard Group Inc. and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  briefly revived discussions in May.  “I think the likelihood is that some compromise will
emerge,” Joan Swirsky, an attorney at Philadelphia law firm
Stradley, Ronon, Stevens & Young LLP who specializes in money
fund oversight, said in an interview.  Regulators including Geithner have coordinated in
pressuring SEC commissioners to tighten regulations of the
funds. With Schapiro struggling to find support for her nearly
400-page proposal, at least two commissioners who opposed the
plan received calls from  Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  Schapiro Statement  Still, a week before the scheduled Aug. 29 vote, Schapiro
was forced to give up on her plan when the three commissioners -
- Republicans Gallagher and  Troy Paredes  and Democrat  Luis Aguilar  -- told her they wouldn’t vote for it. In a statement
that day, she urged “other policy makers” to take up the issue
instead -- a comment widely understood as referring to FSOC,
established by Dodd-Frank as a cross-regulator to protect the
economy from systemic crises.  The potential danger posed by money funds, Schapiro said,
was too important to “put our head in the sand and wish it
away.”  That statement sparked a flurry of public barbs among SEC
commissioners. Gallagher, Paredes and Aguilar said the agency
lacked needed data and analysis as a basis for new rules and put
in a formal request for further study on Sept. 17.  Take Action  Three days later, Schapiro wrote an  opinion piece  in the
Wall Street Journal calling on the FSOC, -- which includes the
SEC, CFTC and is headed by the Treasury -- to take action.  If FSOC formally recommends action on money market funds,
the SEC would then have 90 days to impose standards or explain
to Congress in writing why it failed to move.  “Secretary Geithner seems determined that something’s
going to get done, one way or another,” Swirsky said.  An FSOC move toward designating funds and fund companies as
systemically important effectively encourages regulators to
supersede the SEC’s oversight of money funds and subject them to
direct regulation by the Fed in the event the SEC rejects the
recommendations.  That option could attract legal challenges.  “FSOC’s path is fraught with peril,”  Peter Crane ,
president of fund research firm Crane Data LLC, said in an
interview. “It’s unclear they have the authority to do this.”  Lawmakers and industry officials have said they prefer the
SEC resolve the issue without relying on FSOC.  “While we want to work with all policy makers, we believe
the SEC is best situated to deal with money-market funds,”
 Vincent Loporchio , a spokesman for Boston-based  Fidelity
Investments , the largest U.S. money-fund provider, said in an
interview.  Paul Schott Stevens, president of the Investment Company
Institute, said funds would continue to oppose any regulation.  “The money-market fund proposals Secretary Geithner
presents to the FSOC already have been the subject of extensive
analysis and commentary,” Stevens said in a statement. “These
proposals have elicited strong opposition for their adverse
impacts on investors, issuers and the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  