-- Morgan Stanley Says Simon Robey to Step Down After 25 Years
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-09-28T15:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/morgan-stanley-says-simon-robey-to-step-down-after-25-years-1-.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s most senior
dealmaker in  London , Simon Robey, plans to step down after 25
years to start his own advisory firm.  Robey, the firm’s co-chairman of global mergers and
acquisitions and head of its U.K. operation, will leave in
January, the bank said in a memorandum to employees today.  The 52-year-old follows dealmakers including Michael and
Yoel Zaoui, former M&A bankers at Morgan Stanley and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , in setting up their own firms amid a dearth of
takeovers. Global mergers and acquisitions slumped in the third
quarter to a level not seen since the third quarter of 2009.  “Simon is an exceptional banker with an unparalleled depth
and breadth of experience as a strategic advisor,” Chief
Executive Officer  James Gorman  said in a statement. “We look
forward to continuing to work with him in the future.”  Robey is part of the team at Morgan Stanley advising BAE
Systems Plc on its merger talks with European Aeronautic,
Defence & Space Co., two people with knowledge of the talks
said. He also advised HBOS Plc, Britain’s then-biggest mortgage
lender, on its 2008 acquisition by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , and
worked on the $70 billion merger of British drugmakers Glaxo
Wellcome Plc and SmithKlineBeecham Plc in 2000.  Born in London, Robey studied English at Oxford University,
where he was also a choral scholar. After four years at Lazard
Ltd., he joined Morgan Stanley in London in 1987. He is also
chairman of the board of trustees of the Royal Opera House.  Hugh Fraser , a spokesman at Morgan Stanley, declined to
make Robey available for interview.  Morgan Stanley is the second-ranked advisor on global
mergers this year after Goldman Sachs, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  