-- Stocks Drop on Economy Data as Gasoline Jumps on Supplies
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-09-28T20:24:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/most-asian-stocks-climb-with-oil-as-data-boosts-stimulus-outlook.html
U.S. stocks extended their worst
 weekly decline  since June, while the dollar and Treasuries rose,
as reports showed weakening economic growth. Gasoline surged on
concern about tighter supplies in the U.S. East Coast.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.5 percent to
1,440.67 at 4 p.m. in  New York , finishing the week down 1.3
percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 1.2 percent and
tumbled 2.7 percent in five days. Ten-year Treasury yields fell
two basis points to 1.63 percent after losing six points
earlier. The dollar rose against 13 of 16 major peers. Gasoline
jumped the most since March, leading commodity gains.  U.S. equities slipped for the fourth day  this week ,
trimming the S&P 500’s monthly gain to 2.4 percent and its
third-quarter advance to 5.8 percent. Business activity in the
U.S. unexpectedly contracted in September for the first time in
three years, a private report showed, while  Japan ’s industrial
production fell more than forecast. Stocks trimmed losses as
stress tests results showed Spain’s banks have a smaller capital
shortfall than some traders speculated.  “We’re seeing data that are consistent with stall speed
growth,” said Tom Wirth, who helps manage $1.6 billion as
senior investment officer for Chemung Canal Trust Co., in
Elmira, New York. “It’s disappointing. We wanted to see
acceleration. As for  Europe , there’s always going to be anxiety.
We’ve seen this movie before.”  Chicago PMI  Benchmark U.S. stock indexes extended weekly declines as
the Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its
business barometer fell to 49.7 this month from 53 in August. A
reading of 50 is the dividing line between growth and
contraction. U.S. household purchases rose 0.5 percent, matching
the median estimate of economists, while the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final sentiment index rose to
78.3 this month from 74.3 in August, trailing the median
economist estimate of 79.  Bank of America Corp., McDonald’s Corp. and  Intel Corp .
lost more than 1.5 percent to lead declines in 25 of 30 stocks
in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average. (INDU)   Nike Inc. (NKE) , the largest
sporting-goods company, slipped 1.1 percent after reporting
future orders that trailed estimates as demand sank in  China .
McDonald’s dropped 1.6 percent after Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
cut its recommendation for the shares.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the largest company by market value, slipped
2.1 percent today and extended this week’s decline to 4.7
percent, its worst drop since May. Chief Executive Officer  Tim
Cook  apologized for the iPhone mapping software released last
week that has been widely criticized for flaws such as steering
people in the wrong direction.  RIM Rallies  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM)  rallied 5 percent after the maker
of BlackBerry mobile devices posted a  fiscal second-quarter  loss
of 27 cents, less than the 47-cent loss that analysts had
estimated.  U.S. equities have outperformed fixed-income investments
this quarter and pension funds may have needed to sell stocks
this week to rebalance asset allocations, according to UBS AG
strategist Boris Rjavinski.  American pension funds, which UBS estimates hold about 55
percent of their $5 trillion in stocks, may have needed to pull
as much as $36 billion from equities and put as much as $19
billion into fixed income, Rjavinski wrote in a note dated Sept.
24. The largest outflows were projected to be from stocks of
large U.S. companies, with as much as $21 billion being sold.  The Stoxx 600 pared its rally this quarter to 6.9 percent.
The  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  slumped 8 percent today and
12 percent this week, its biggest decline since 2008, after
saying that European Union regulations will cut income from its
Italian central counterparty and may require LCH.Clearnet Group
Ltd. to increase capital.  European Movers  Cap Gemini SA (CAP)  added 0.8 percent and  Atos (ATO)  gained after
 Accenture Plc (ACN)  forecast full-year earnings late yesterday that
exceeded analysts’ estimates. Accenture surged 7.4 percent in
New York trading after the world’s second-largest technology
consulting company projected earnings of as much as $4.30 a
share, exceeding the average analyst estimate of $4.13.  All 19 industry groups in the Stoxx 600 retreated and banks
were the biggest drag, with Spanish lenders Banco Santander SA
and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA losing at least 1.9
percent to pace declines.  Stress Tests  Results of Spain’s  stress test  released after European
markets closed showed the banks have a combined capital
shortfall of 59.3 billion euros. The tests were a precursor to
the formation of a so-called bad bank to which troubled lenders
will transfer soured real estate to bolster their balance
sheets. The independent stress test to assess the damage wrought
by the property crash is a condition of Spain’s 100 billion-euro
($129 billion) banking bailout agreed in July.  The Bankia group, a nationalized lender, had a 24.7
billion-euro capital deficit in the tests conducted by
management consultants  Oliver Wyman  that also showed Banco
Popular Espanol SA had a 3.22 billion-euro shortfall. The stress
tests of 14 lenders showed no capital deficit for seven banks,
including Santander SA, BBVA and Banco Sabadell SA.  “The focus is back on Europe at this point,”  Walter Todd ,
who oversees about $940 million as chief investment officer of
Greenwood Capital in Greenwood,  South Carolina , said in a
telephone interview. “It’s this ebb and flow of crisis-
response-complacency. You get everything fine for a while and
then increase in stress.”  European Yields  Spain’s 10-year yield was down one basis point at 5.94
percent after rising 12 points earlier.  German 10-year bond yields declined two basis points to
1.44 percent. The securities capped their sixth straight
quarterly advance, the longest run since 1998.  The S&P GSCI has rallied 11 percent during the third
quarter, heading for its biggest gain since the first three
months of 2011. Gasoline, corn and wheat advanced more than 5
percent today to lead gains among 18 of the 24 commodities
tracked by the index.  Gasoline rose to a five-month high, surging 6.3 percent to
$3.342 a gallon in New York, as refinery maintenance in the
Atlantic Basin stoked concerns about supplies in New York
Harbor. Refineries in  Canada ,  Wales  and the Netherlands that
supply the U.S. East Coast reduced fuel production. Supplies in
the region, which includes New York Harbor, the delivery point
for futures contracts, are the lowest in almost four years,
Energy Department data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  