-- Otis Looks to Upgrades, Takeovers in Stagnant Southern Europe
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-09-28T09:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/otis-looks-to-upgrades-takeovers-in-stagnant-southern-europe.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Otis is
turning to elevator-software installations and expanding its
share of maintaining southern  Europe ’s existing 1.7 million
lifts amid stagnant demand for new equipment.  Margins are under pressure and Otis will need to improve
profitability to extend a three-year run of earnings growth,
Otis President Pedro Baranda said in an interview.  The elevator market in Spain and  Italy , which together have
more lifts anywhere outside of  China , is down about 75 percent
since a 2008 peak, hurt by lower state spending, Baranda said.
The once dominant markets for new equipment are now
characterized by overcapacity, forcing Otis to shrink its new
installations business, he said.  “In other countries it was a V downturn: this looks like a
U or a W downturn,” Baranda said. “It’s been bad since 2008.”  Baranda sees weak construction markets driving more
consolidation, and Otis will seek out those companies in Italy
and Spain squeezed out by the slowdown to expand its portfolio
of maintained lifts. At the same time, the United Technologies
unit will make its own cutbacks to operations in southern
Europe, Baranda said.  In Spain, where Otis has 14 percent of its installed
elevators, the manufacturer wants to modernize lifts with
energy-saving software and other products such as a computer
program that can allow maintenance to be carried out remotely.  “That’s where we have to focus in these years where there
will be no construction,” Baranda said.  Otis competitor  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  is moving ahead with
its own technology, a traffic management system targeted at
office blocks as it continues a restructuring program that
brought 800 job cuts in weakened European markets last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  