-- Motorola Mobility Loses Appeal in Microsoft Xbox Lawsuit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-09-29T00:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/motorola-mobility-loses-appeal-in-microsoft-xbox-lawsuit.html
Google’s Inc.’s Motorola Mobility
can’t enforce a German court order preventing  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
from selling its Xbox gaming software in  Germany , a U.S. appeals
court ruled.  A three-judge panel in  San Francisco  upheld a  Seattle 
judge’s order blocking Motorola Mobility’s enforcement of the
sales ban it won in May in its lawsuit against Microsoft pending
in Germany. The panel said the lower court’s order was narrowly
tailored.  Motorola Mobility and Microsoft are locked in legal battles
over patents for Xbox and smartphone software in the U.S. and
Germany. Microsoft contends all devices that run on Google’s
Android operating system use its technology and seeks royalties
from Motorola Mobility. Motorola Mobility says it’s owed
royalties on the Xbox for use of the company’s Wi-Fi and video-
compression technology.  To enforce the German sales ban, Motorola Mobility would
have to post a security bond covering potential damages to
Microsoft, the appeals court said. Microsoft could also avoid
the injunction by taking steps towards entering a licensing
agreement with Motorola with a specific rate or rate determined
by Motorola.  Representatives of  Mountain View , California-based Google,
didn’t respond to an e-mail message to the company’s media
office seeking comment on the ruling.  Seattle Judge  Microsoft obtained the Seattle judge’s order blocking
Motorola Mobility form enforcing a German injunction before
Motorola Mobility won the lawsuit in Germany.  U.S. District Judge James Robart in Seattle said an
existing contract lawsuit between the two companies in his
courthouse will help determine a royalty rate, so putting the
German injunction on hold is appropriate, the appeals court
said.  “It is clear that there is a contract, that it is
enforceable by Microsoft, and that it encompasses not just U.S.
patents but also the patents at issue in the German suit,” the
appeals court said.  Motorola Mobility, based in Libertyville,  Illinois , has
submitted offers to license its patents, some of which relate to
standards established by industry groups for video compression
and Wi-Fi technology. It also has offered to take a license to
the coordination feature known as ActiveSync, that it has
previously licensed from Microsoft before 2007.  Standard Demand  Motorola Mobility sent letters to Microsoft with what it
said was a standard demand for a 2.25 percent royalty on the end
price of products that use the inventions, including the Xbox
and Windows products. Microsoft contends that would add as much
as $4 billion in annual royalties, a figure Motorola Mobility
disputes.  Microsoft contends the offer doesn’t meet Motorola
Mobility’s obligation to license such patents on fair and
reasonable terms, and the licensing offer should be based on
“market rates.” It filed a breach of contract suit that’s
scheduled for trial in November in federal court in Seattle,
near Microsoft’s headquarters in Redmond,  Washington .  “We’re pleased that Judge Robart’s decision has been
affirmed by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, preventing
Motorola from enforcing an injunction in Germany until its use
of standard essential patents can be closely examined,”  David
Howard , corporate vice president and deputy general counsel for
Microsoft, said in an e-mail. “It continues to be our hope that
Google and Motorola live up to their promises to standards
organizations.”  The case is Microsoft Corp. v. Motorola Mobility Inc.,
12-35352,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth Circuit, San
Francisco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  