-- PepsiCo Channels Apple as Drink Makers Grab Design Ethos
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-09-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/pepsico-channels-apple-as-drink-makers-grab-design-ethos.html
PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and MillerCoors are
looking for some Steve Jobs magic.  In an effort to stave off competition from nimbler
upstarts, the world’s largest snack-food maker has added a chief
design officer to its c-suite. MillerCoors, battling craft beer
makers, poached its innovation chief from Dyson Ltd., which re-
invented the vacuum cleaner and commercial hand dryer.  Companies have tried to emulate  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  emphasis on
style for years. After all, Samsung Electronics Inc. in August
lost a patent suit over similarities to the iPhone. What’s
different now is that more companies, even large ones, are
trying to bake innovation and free-thinking into their corporate
cultures. That’s why PepsiCo recruited a chief design officer,
Mauro Porcini, from 3M Co., and MillerCoors snatched Dyson’s
David Kroll as its new vice president of innovation.  Grafting a design ethos onto a company with 300,000
employees such as PepsiCo won’t be easy, said Bruce Hannah, who
co-invented the Nerf football and teaches art and design at the
Pratt Institute in New York.  “You can say, ‘Let’s create a design culture. Everybody
wear blue hats today,’” Hannah said. “That’s lovely, but that
doesn’t change the culture. What changes the culture is when
people become engaged with their own ideas.”  Investors have rewarded Apple for its design prowess. The
company has traded, on average, at a 32 percent  premium  to the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index during the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bobble Bottle  In recent years, some of the most successful beverage
innovations have emanated from startups and small companies.  The Bobble water bottle, which comes with a filter built
into the cap, was created by a New York couple who teamed with
an industrial designer. The $10 eco-friendly bottle is sold in
40,000 stores from American Apparel Inc. to Macy’s Inc. and in
32 counties.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , an industry minnow,
has built a $400 million business selling sleek carbonation
machines that turn tap water into soda.  Technology makes it easier than ever for startups to bring
a great idea to market and reach a profitable scale, said Brad Jakeman, President of PepsiCo’s Global Beverages Group. Large
companies can no longer count on having an edge when it comes to
manufacturing and distribution.  “Ideas have become more important than ever before,” said
Jakeman, pointing out that Red Bull, the largest energy drink in
the U.S. by retail dollar share, was turned into a global
blockbuster by Austrian entrepreneur Dietrich Mateschitz.  Hoop Light  Porcini, PepsiCo’s new chief design officer, held the same
role at St. Paul, Minnesota-based 3M since 2002. He turned
pedestrian Scotch tape and Post-it note dispensers into desk
art, created sleek multimedia projectors and oversaw design of
an LED ceiling Hoop Light that seems to float.  His unit’s designs were credited with boosting sales in an
office-supply market with little differentiation. Just how much
is hard to say, even for him. “It’s always tricky to take full
credit with design for growth,” he said in an e-mail.  MillerCoors, a joint venture between  SABMiller Plc. (SAB)  and
 Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP) , wants Kroll to bring some of the Dyson
mojo to such brands as Coors Lite, Miller Lite and Blue Moon.
Founder James Dyson spent 15 years and went through 5,000
prototypes designing a bagless vacuum cleaner that became the
U.K.’s best-selling within 22 months of its debut.  “When you see everything that’s going on around you, it
becomes clearer that design is a powerful thing,” MillerCoors
Chief Marketing Officer Andy England said.  Fountain Machine  Beverage companies didn’t just discover design. Atlanta-
based  Coca-Cola (KO)  hired a vice president of design, David Butler,
in 2004. He laid out a 30-page design strategy for the world’s
largest beverage maker that helped guide such innovations as the
120-flavor Freestyle fountain machine and the 2-liter contour
bottle. PepsiCo, based in Purchase, New York, and MillerCoors,
based in Chicago, already have several design-led projects under
way that they declined to disclose.  PepsiCo hired Porcini largely because he created a design-
led culture from scratch at a major company, 3M, Jakeman said.
He has been asked to help rethink everything PepsiCo does. The
effort is about more than simply jazzing up package graphics for
brands including Pepsi-Cola, Mountain Dew, Gatorade, Lay’s,
Doritos and Quaker.  “Innovation doesn’t necessarily need to start from a new
science, or a new formula or a new product idea,” Jakeman said.  Jakeman wonders, for example, whether a plastic bottle in
its original shape could have an alternative use after the
beverage is consumed. Shapes of packages are up for grabs.
Digital innovations will be reimagined. Do beverages and snacks
have to be trucked from factory to warehouse to store, he
wonders. Do they even have to be manufactured in a factory?  Future Needs  “It’s not what’s needed now but what might be needed in
five years,” said Percy Hooper, who has taught design for 20
years at North Carolina State University following 10 years as a
design consultant.  Porcini will work closely with PepsiCo’s research and
development teams, as well as digital marketers. Such an
approach has worked before.  Nike Inc. (NKE)  expanded its digital
presence with Nike Plus, a transmitter runners can put in
specially designed shoes to track workouts online. It’s the kind
of thinking Jakeman wants to foster.  “Consumers search more and more for tailored, unique
experiences,” Porcini said in an e-mail. “Retailers love
differentiation, and new and up-to-date offerings.”  Bladeless Fans  Kroll, who started this month, and was unavailable for an
interview, most recently spent more than a year at Dyson, as a
vice president for the U.S. and Mexico. He wrote the company’s
five-year plan to double U.S. sales. Dyson’s team of designers
have added bladeless fans that double as heaters to its product
offerings.  MillerCoors already found success with its aluminum pint
bottle, which is colder to the touch than glass. Now the company
wants to make more use of plastic. England takes inspiration
from ketchup companies that turned to plastic to prevent
breakage, put the cap on the bottom to make the product easier
for consumers and experimented with new shapes.  “Delivering elegant solutions is always the way to win and
that’s our challenge,” England said. “We’re limited by our own
imagination.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  