-- Persuadable Voters’ Economic Woes Give Romney an Opening
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-09-28T16:12:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/persuadable-voters-economic-woes-give-romney-an-opening.html
When it comes to handling women’s
health issues and foreign affairs, Dawn Massop Love sides with
President  Barack Obama . For closing tax loopholes and boosting
small businesses, she trusts  Mitt Romney  to do the job.  “There’s a list of 100 items that need to be fixed in this
country, and they’re probably 50-50 on them,” Love, 43, a
marketing manager from Lafayette,  Colorado  says of Obama and
Romney. “I’m waiting to decide, because I really need to hear a
little bit more about their plans.”  Meet one of the persuadable voters who comprise about 18
percent of the likely electorate, according to the latest
Bloomberg National Poll. They’re conflicted over which candidate
to choose, confused and sometimes little-informed about their
options, and they could hold the key to the presidential race.  Obama has a six-percentage-point edge over Romney among
likely voters in the poll conducted Sept. 21-24, with 7 percent
saying they weren’t sure whom to choose and an additional 11
percent saying they could still change their minds. According to
an analysis of the results, Romney would have to win more than
two-thirds of those persuadable voters to win the election.  “They don’t love either candidate, so they’re just sitting
back and waiting,” said J. Ann Selzer of Selzer & Co., the  Des
Moines , Iowa-based firm that conducted the poll. “These are
people who are not as plugged in, their enthusiasm is low, and
it’s a group that’s hard to connect to, because they’re not
seeking that connection.”  Romney Advantage  There’s more good news than bad for Romney for appealing to
this group. It starts with the adage that undecided voters
typically choose the challenger on Election Day, because they
aren’t already sold on the incumbent.  The Bloomberg telephone survey of 789 likely voters, with a
margin of error of plus or minus 3.5 percentage points, contains
more evidence that these voters are open to Romney. More of
Romney’s supporters, 13 percent, said they could change their
mind than Obama’s backers, only 11 percent of whom said they
could still be influenced. That means more persuadable voters in
the poll tilt Republican and lean in Romney’s direction on some
issues.  They’re more apt than other likely voters to say the nation
is on the wrong track -- 71 percent compared to 59 percent of
likely voters who said so -- and have a dimmer view of Obama’s
favorability, with 45 percent of them holding a positive
impression compared to 52 percent among voters overall. They
also dislike Romney in smaller numbers; 41 percent of
persuadable voters held an unfavorable view of him compared with
49 percent of likely voters.  Wrong Track  Persuadable voters are more convinced of the economic case
Romney has made than they are of Obama’s, with 41 percent saying
the Republican has laid out a better vision for a successful
future compared to 25 percent saying the president has. Likely
voters overall preferred Obama’s economic vision, 47 percent to
44 percent.  The poll shows these voters are disproportionately located
in Midwestern states -- the area on which much of the election
is being fought -- with 34 percent of them living there compared
with 25 percent of likely voters.  “A lot of it is confusing to me as to where the two
candidates actually stand on some issues, so I’m up in the air
as yet -- it’s flat out 50-50,” said Murl Nash, a retired
television newsman from Jefferson City,  Missouri . “Romney’s
background is business, so that’s probably good, but I don’t
know how he’d be as a president, with foreign policy and all
that.”  Debate Watch  In follow-up interviews after the poll, some wavering
voters said they were waiting to watch next month’s three
presidential debates, hoping for policy details that might help
them decide whom to support.  “It’s very telling in my mind when you can see them on the
same stage together,” said Love, an Obama supporter in 2008 who
is unhappy about the state of the economy. “If the president’s
position is CEO of the company, the way you handle yourself with
questions and in public is really important. Hearing some of
those answers there will help me clarify some of my confusion.”  A registered independent, Love said she plans to split her
vote for president and for Congress between parties in an effort
to achieve bipartisan “balance,” voting for a Republican for
Congress if she casts her ballot for Obama, or a Democrat for
Congress if she chooses Romney.  Ignoring Ads  Other persuadable voters said they had tuned out much of
what they were hearing about the presidential campaign because
they would rather not listen to negative advertisements and
speeches that do little to illuminate either candidate’s
position.  “Most of the ads and some of those statements they make
are just slamming the other person, and you don’t know whether
that’s always true or not, so I don’t like them,” said Naomi
McDonald, 65, of New Carlisle,  Ohio . “I like it when they tell
you what they’re going to do.”  McDonald said she didn’t know much about either candidate
and is leaning toward voting for Romney, yet could still change
her mind because she fears he may not focus on the economic
challenges of people like her.  “He wants to just support the middle people -- what about
us poor people?” McDonald, who sews clothing and purses to make
ends meet, said of Romney. “Those people he always talks about
who have businesses and that -- well, they all have money or
they wouldn’t be creating  jobs . I don’t know if he cares or
not.”  Obama Connection  Pluralities of persuadable voters rated Romney more out of
touch than Obama and chose the president as best able to
understand their problems and struggles, yet large percentages -
- almost 2 in 5 -- said they weren’t sure which candidate
deserves those labels. They said they were better off now than
they were when Obama took office, though in lower proportions
than likely voters.  While they said Obama has improved the economy since he
took office, it was by a smaller margin than likely voters -- 40
percent compared to 50 percent -- and almost a quarter of
persuadable voters said they didn’t know.  And while likely voters disproportionately said they
disagreed with Romney’s recently published comment that 47
percent of Americans are government-dependent “victims” who
would never vote for him, persuadable voters were split, with 45
percent saying the Republican was right and 44 percent saying he
was wrong.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania  at  
  or  Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 