-- Petrobras Seeks to Override Transocean Brazil Suspension
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-09-28T20:48:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/petrobras-seeks-to-override-transocean-brazil-suspension.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PBR) , the world’s
biggest oil producer in deep waters, asked Brazilian courts and
regulators to override a ruling that would halt rig owner
 Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s operations in the country.  Petrobras filed a “writ of mandamus” to Brazil’s courts
and the National Petroleum Agency, or ANP, petitioning to keep
Transocean’s rigs operating, the Rio de Janeiro-based company
said in a statement today.  “This decision affects Petrobras’s activities since it
leads to the shutdown of seven rigs currently in operation that
were chartered by Transocean to Petrobras, in addition to not
allowing the operation of an additional chartered rig that is
docked,” Petrobras said.  A Brazilian court yesterday ordered Transocean, the world’s
largest offshore oil driller, to cease operations in the country
within 30 days as part of a criminal investigation into an oil
spill last year at  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Frade field. The rigs are
crucial for meeting Petrobras’s production targets, Maria das
Gracas Foster, chief executive officer of the Brazilian
producer, said Sept. 20.  ‘Unprecedented Support’  Under Brazilian law, the regulator doesn’t have the
authority to reverse yesterday’s ruling. The regulator is
working to guarantee that Transocean will keep operating in
Brazil, said an ANP official, who declined to be named because
of agency policy.  Support from Transocean’s customers is “unprecedented,”
 Guy Cantwell , a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Petrobras said it’s also analyzing contracting new rigs in
the international market and relocating other rigs to mitigate
the effects if Transocean has to cease operating.  Transocean, which posted its biggest weekly decline this
year, fell 1.1 percent to close at $44.89 in New York. Petrobras
dropped 1.5 percent to 22.37 reais in  Sao Paulo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  