-- Philippine Peso Completes Third Quarterly Advance on Inflows
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-09-28T08:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/philippine-peso-poised-for-third-quarterly-gain-on-inflows.html
The Philippine peso headed for its
third quarterly gain this year as the prospect of a credit-
rating upgrade fueled inflows to the nation’s assets. Ten-year
government bonds rallied.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas cut its overnight borrowing
rate to a record low 3.75 percent in July and the central bank
still has “policy space” for further easing this year,
Governor Amando Tetangco said on Sept. 24. Favorable borrowing
costs and the likelihood of an investment-grade rating supported
gains in stocks, Philippine Stock Exchange President Hans Sicat
told Bloomberg TV today. Foreign funds pumped $1.3 billion into
local shares this quarter, exchange data show.  “There’s nothing to suggest the positive tone will reverse
as things are really looking up for the Philippines,” said
Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in Singapore.  The peso rose 1.1 percent this quarter to 41.71 per dollar
at the close in Manila, prices from Tullett Prebon Plc show. The
currency strengthened 0.9 percent this month and 0.4 percent
today. One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, fell 20 basis points, to 5.5
percent today.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year bonds declined 100 basis
points, or one percentage point, since June 30 to 4.90 percent,
according to midday fixing prices at Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp. That’s the biggest drop since the three months
ended September 2010. The rate rose three basis points today.  Gains Slowing  The local currency has advanced five percent this year, the
second-best performance in the region next to the Singapore
dollar. Gains slowed from 1.8 percent in the three months
through June and 2.2 percent in the first quarter.  Standard & Poor’s raised its foreign-currency debt rating
one level to BB+ in July, a step below investment grade. Moody’s
Investors Service, which rates the Philippines at Ba2 or two
steps below investment mark, raised its outlook to positive in
May, citing improving debt levels.  The $225 billion economy expanded 6.1 percent in the first
half, the fastest pace since 2010. Inflation this month will
probably range from 3.4 percent to 4.3 percent, Tetangco said
yesterday. The central bank will review borrowing costs on Oct.
25 and Dec. 13.  “I’m not taking a possible 25-basis-point cut off the
table in the fourth quarter,” Rao said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  