-- Rand Extends Losses on Larger Trade Deficit, Moody’s Down
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-09-28T14:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/rand-extends-losses-on-larger-trade-deficit-moody-s-down.html
The rand extended its losses,
declining the most in more than a week, and yields climbed after
 South Africa  posted its biggest trade deficit in seven months
and Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s rating.  The rand retreated as much as 1.1 percent, the most since
Sept. 20, and traded 0.7 percent weaker at 8.2875 by 3:40 p.m.
in Johannesburg, headed for its third weekly decline. Yields on
6.75 percent notes due 2021 climbed six basis points to 6.56
percent.  South Africa’s trade  shortfall  reached 12.2 billion rand
($1.5 billion) compared with 6.7 billion rand in July, the
Pretoria-based South African Revenue Service said in an e-mailed
statement today. The  median estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of
seven economists was for a 6.9 billion-rand gap.  “The trade deficit obviously impacts the country from a
funding perspective and that’s been one of the concerns of the
 ratings agencies , worrying about the potential for funding going
forward,”  Brigid Taylor , the head of institutional flow sales
at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone.  Moody’s retained its negative outlook on the rating given
policy “uncertainty” ahead of the December conference of the
ruling  African National Congress . S&P, which also has a negative
outlook on South Africa’s debt, said in a statement that news
flow from the country hasn’t been good and risks haven’t eased.
The comments outweighed foreign buying of bonds ahead of their
inclusion in  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s World Government Bond Index on
Oct. 1.  ‘Reality Check’  “It’s a tussle between the good and the bad, and the
market is giving more weight to the Moody’s downgrade than to
the possible bond inflows,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, chief dealer
at Bidvest Bank Ltd., South African chain of money-changers,
said by phone from Johannesburg. “The comments by Moody’s were
a bit of a reality check, because they highlighted structural
issues that are going to be with us for a while.”  Moody’s cut the country’s sovereign-credit rating one level
to Baa1 from A3, citing the government’s inability to deal with
economic and political challenges.  “The revision reflects Moody’s view of the South African
authorities’ reduced capacity to handle the current political
and economic situation and to implement effective strategies
that could place the economy on a path to faster and more
inclusive growth,” the ratings company said in a statement.  South Africa’s first debt downgrade since apartheid ended
in 1994 comes after six weeks of labor unrest that has left at
least 46 people dead and shut mines owned by Lonmin Plc, Anglo
American Platinum Ltd. and AngloGold Ashanti Ltd.  Foreign investors  bought  300 million rand ($36 million) of
South African bonds yesterday, the seventh day of net purchases
of the nation’s debt, before the addition of the securities to
the Citigroup gauge at 5 p.m. Johannesburg time. Foreign buying
this year at 76 billion rand is the most on record for any full
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Inflows related to South Africa’s accession into the WGBI
will dominate flows through the week ahead, possibly beginning
as early as today,” Quinten Bertenshaw, an analyst at ETM
Analytics in Johannesburg, said in a note to clients today.
“The flows are expected to be fairly sizable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  