-- TransCanada’s Keystone Wins Right to Take Pipeline Land
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-09-28T21:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/transcanada-s-keystone-wins-right-to-take-pipeline-land.html
TransCanada (TRP)  Corp. won court
permission to build part of its Keystone XL pipeline across
several contested tracts of southeast Texas farmland to carry
Canadian tar-sands crude to Gulf Coast refineries.  State judge Tom Rugg Sr. granted the pipeline company’s
requests to take possession of the tracts under state eminent-
domain laws after a hearing today in Beaumont, Texas.  “The statutory requirements for the issuance of writs of
possession are now met,” Rugg said in a two-page ruling, after
TransCanada agreed to increase the size and type of surety bonds
it posted in the proceeding.  The landowners urged Rugg to deny TransCanada’s access to
the disputed tracts, citing a Texas Supreme Court ruling last
year that limits the condemnation powers that pipelines can use
under state law.  Rugg told lawyers in a letter this week that he wouldn’t
hear the landowners’ challenges under the new high-court
standards at this stage of the proceedings. A  Texas  appeals
court is scheduled to hear arguments next week that rely on the
ruling in a separate eminent-domain case against the Keystone XL
pipeline.  Disputed Easements  Rugg gave Calgary-based TransCanada possession of the
disputed easements after the company agreed to post adequate
surety bonds against potential damages, as required under state
law. Rugg temporarily blocked the pipeline company from
accessing one of the disputed parcels until all owners of that
land received the proper legal notice of the eminent domain
proceeding.  One of the landowners, David Holland, claimed in court
filings that the bonds TransCanada posted this month were
inadequate. He said the bond for his property represented less
than 5 percent of the price TransCanada offered him before
negotiations broke down.  The bonds are based on assessed value of the property
that’s used for the easement as set by an independent county
commission.  Holland said he rejected TransCanada’s offer of $446,864
for an easement primarily because the company refused to accept
liability for any future disaster and wouldn’t lower the
Keystone XL to pass under existing streams and heavy-equipment
crossings on the property. He said TransCanada’s refusal of
“customary easement terms” made the Keystone XL more
environmentally risky than other pipelines that had accepted his
terms to gain easements across the farm.  Eminent Domain  Tom Zabal, TransCanada’s lawyer, argued in court filings
that the pipeline didn’t need court permission to take
possession of the easements because the company fulfilled all
requirements of Texas’s eminent-domain statute. He said the
pipeline sought the writs of possession to reinforce Keystone’s
legal rights in case landowners tried to block pipeline crews
from reaching the easements.  In an interview before the hearing, Holland said he will
continue fighting TransCanada on principal, just as he did in a
different eminent-domain dispute with another pipeline. In that
case against a unit of  Denbury Resources Inc. (DNR) , Holland took the
case to the Texas Supreme Court, where he won the ruling
activists hope will help derail the Keystone XL in an appeal
involving an unrelated tract.  The case is TransCanada Keystone Pipeline LP v. Texas Rice
Land Partners Ltd., 0118867, County Court at Law, Jefferson
County, Texas (Beaumont).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in state court in Beaumont, Texas, at
   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  