-- Ravens Defeat Browns 23-16 as NFL Referees Return to Officiate
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-28T05:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/ravens-defeat-browns-23-16-as-nfl-referees-return-to-officiate.html
The Baltimore Ravens beat the
Cleveland Browns 23-16 in the first National Football League
game since a lockout of referees ended.  Ravens quarterback Joe Flacco threw one touchdown pass and
ran for another score at M&T Stadium in Baltimore, while Cary Williams returned an interception 63 yards for a touchdown as
the home team improved to 3-1 while keeping the Browns winless.  The referees’ union reached an agreement with the league on
an eight-year labor deal Sept. 26, ending a lockout that began
in early June.  “The game maybe went a little bit smoother tonight, a
little more seamless,” Flacco said in a televised interview.  It was the 13th consecutive home win for the Ravens, the
longest active streak in the NFL. Baltimore’s run of 10 straight
victories against division rivals is also the most in the league.  The crowd gave officials a standing ovation before the game.
“It’s good to be back,” referee Gene Steratore told the
captains at the pre-game coin toss, while a banner in the crowd
read “Finally we get to yell at real refs. Welcome back.” The
honeymoon ended after less than four minutes with Steratore
stifling a smile as Baltimore fans jeered his announcement of a
holding penalty against Michael Oher.  After a scoreless first quarter, Torrey Smith collected an
18-yard pass from Flacco for a touchdown. Justin Tucker added a
45-yard field goal for Baltimore and Trent Richardson scored on
a 1-yard run for Cleveland to make it 9-7 to the Ravens at
halftime.  Flacco scored on a 1-yard dash in the third quarter and
Williams got Baltimore’s final score after Phil Dawson kicked a
51-yard field goal for Cleveland.  Dawson added two more field goals, from 50 and 52 yards, in
the fourth quarter to tie an NFL single-game record by kicking
three field goals of 50 yards or longer.  Flacco completed 28 of 46 passing attempts for 356 yards.
Browns quarterback Brandon Weeden completed 25 of 52 passes for
320 yards and one interception.  “Our guys battled hard,” said Browns head coach Pat Shurmur. “We fell a couple of plays short.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  