-- RBS Prices Direct Line in Biggest London IPO Since Glencore
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-09-28T17:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/rbs-seeks-1-billion-pounds-in-direct-line-discounted-offering.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
plans to raise about 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) in the
initial public offering of Direct Line Insurance Group Plc,
pricing the stock at a discount to lure investors.  RBS (RBS)  is offering as many as 500 million shares, between 25
percent and 33 percent of the company, priced at 160 pence to
195 pence apiece, the Edinburgh-based bank said today in a
statement. The range’s mid-point values Britain’s biggest motor
insurer at 2.66 billion pounds, marking the biggest U.K. IPO
since  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  raised $10 billion in May 2011.  “Today’s announcement reflects the level of investor
interest that has been shown at this stage of the transaction,
which we believe underlines the potential that exists in Direct
Line Group,” Paul Geddes, the insurer’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement.  Direct Line’s mid-point valuation is 22 percent less than
the 3.4 billion-pound estimate published in a report by
Commerzbank AG, a co-manager of the IPO. Investors including JO
Hambro Capital Management Ltd. this week said RBS would need to
price the stock at a 25 percent discount to attract interest.
RBS is selling the insurer to comply with a European Union
penalty imposed after the bank took state aid during the 2008
financial crisis.  Underwriters’ Fees  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are
managing the IPO as bookrunners, while Bank of America Corp.,
Citigroup Inc. and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are joint lead managers.
The banks will receive as much as 2.6 percent of the money
raised in the sale in fees. Intermediaries selling the stock to
individual investors will receive a 0.4 percent fee, RBS said.  Market volatility caused by  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
has crimped the pace of stock sales in the region this year.
Companies raised $1.5 billion this year in London IPOs, compared
with $15.6 billion in the same period last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Direct Line competes in a U.K. market that hasn’t made an
underwriting profit in the last decade because of surging
personal-injury claims, according to the  Association of British
Insurers .  The IPO comes as the  Competition Commission , a U.K.
antitrust regulator, begins a probe into the country’s motor
insurance market, which the  Office of Fair Trading  deemed
“dysfunctional.”  Court Decision  The insurer said pretax profit may be eroded by between 30
million pounds and 45 million pounds depending on the outcome of
a Court of Appeal decision relating to increased damages costs
in the industry. The firm also signed a five-year distribution
agreement with RBS this month, it said.  Geddes is focusing on controlling expenses and improving
underwriting after the firm lost money in 2010 because of rising
claims costs. The firm “messed up” by failing to manage claims
and raise premiums quickly enough, RBS CEO Stephen Hester said
in 2009.  The insurer, which has about 8.5 million mainly U.K. home
and motor insurance customers, returned to profit in 2011 and
earnings rose 7 percent to 224.2 million pounds in the first
half of this year. It paid out 1.01 pounds in claims for every
pound it took in premiums in the six months ended June 30.  Geddes will receive a salary of 760,000 pounds, annual
bonus of 1.33 million pounds and long-term incentives valued at
as much as 1.5 million pounds a year, the IPO prospectus said.
He will also buy 56,179 shares in the IPO at the offer price,
the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 