-- Apollo’s Realogy Files to Raise Up to $1.1 Billion in IP0
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-09-28T19:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/realogy-files-to-raise-about-946-million-in-ipo-to-reduce-debt.html
Realogy Holdings Corp., the real-
estate services provider owned by  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) ,
filed to raise as much as $1.08 billion in its U.S. initial
public offering.  Realogy is offering 40 million shares, almost one-third of
its common stock, at $23 to $27 each, according to a  regulatory
filing  today. Apollo, the New York-based private-equity firm run
by  Leon Black , will still hold a majority of the voting power
following the IPO, the filing shows.  Realogy, whose brokerage brands include Coldwell Banker and
Century 21, is going public as U.S. home prices start to  recover 
after the worst collapse since the 1930s. The Parsippany, New
Jersey-based company was taken private by Apollo in 2007 for
$6.8 billion after the housing market peaked. At the midpoint of
the IPO  price range , it would be valued at about $3.25 billion.  “They see a window of opportunity here,” said Evan Mann,
credit analyst for  Gimme Credit  in New York, who raised his
rating on the company’s bonds today to improving from stable.
“They have a little bit of wind at their back and there’s
uncertainty around the corner so why wouldn’t they try now?”  Apollo’s net proceeds from the sale would be about $946
million at the midpoint of the price range, according to the
filing.  Paulson Stake  All of the shares in the latest offering are being sold by
Realogy. The stake belonging to Apollo’s funds will decline to
50 percent from 73 percent in the IPO, according to the filing.
Paulson & Co., the New York-based hedge fund run by  John
Paulson , will see its stake drop to 10 percent from almost 15
percent, the document shows.  Apollo bought Realogy in April 2007, almost two years after
U.S.  home sales  peaked, in a bet that the real estate market
would rebound. Annual U.S. existing home sales  fell  34 percent
from 2007 through 2011, according to the National Association of
Realtors. Prices, as measured by the S&P/Case-Shiller index of
20 metropolitan areas, plunged as much as 35 percent from a July
2006  peak .  Demand for homes has improved in the past year as low
 interest rates  and an improving job market draw in buyers who
are competing for a dwindling supply of  listings . U.S. home
prices climbed 1.2 percent in July from a year earlier, the
biggest 12-month increase since August 2010, the Case-Shiller
 index  showed this week.  Higher Revenue  Realogy’s second-quarter revenue rose 11 percent from a
year earlier to $1.3 billion. The company recorded a net loss
for the quarter of $25 million after $176 million of interest
expense and $44 million of depreciation and amortization costs  Reducing debt is key to Realogy’s strategy. While Realogy’s
 total debt  has climbed 16 percent to $7.28 billion since the
buyout, the money from its IPO combined with the conversion of
about $1.9 billion of debt owned by firms such as Apollo and
Paulson into equity will cut the company’s obligations by more
than a third and reduce interest expenses, according to the
filing.  Optimism is increasing among creditors. Realogy’s $492
million of 11.5 percent notes maturing in 2017, which traded as
low as 65 cents on the dollar a year ago, have increased to
107.75 cents as of 1:49 p.m. in  New York  to yield 9.4 percent,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Cutting Debt  The company, ranked eight levels below investment grade at
Caa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, has $4.7 billion of bonds
 outstanding  with an average maturity of 5.7 years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Although we do not have any significant debt maturities
until 2016, it is our primary objective to use a substantial
portion of future free cash flow generation to further reduce
our outstanding indebtedness,” Realogy said in the filing.  Apollo has been seeking to monetize investments to return
money to clients as it prepares to market a new flagship buyout
fund. The firm expects to start marketing the pool later this
year, seeking $10 billion to $12 billion, two people with
knowledge of the plans said last month.  Berry Plastics Group Inc. (BERY) , the container maker owned by
Apollo, said in a regulatory filing on Sept. 19 that it plans to
raise as much as $529.4 million in its initial public offering.
It is offering 29.4 million shares at $16 to $18 each, according
to the filing.  Realogy’s brands also include Better Homes and Gardens, the
Corcoran Group and ERA. The firm has about 13,500 franchised and
company-owned offices in more than 100 countries, according to
the filing.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are
leading the IPO, first filed in June. The company plans to list
on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RLGY.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  