-- Real Asset Energy Fund to Raise 500 Million Euros for Renewables
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-09-28T14:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/real-asset-energy-fund-to-raise-500-million-euros-for-renewables.html
The  Real Asset Energy Fund , a
Luxembourg-based renewables fund, plans to raise as much as 500
million euros ($646 million) by June to invest in at least 30
plants as solar and wind farms are added from  Italy  to the U.S.  The 25-year fund has raised 100 million euros of the total
since May from U.S., German and Italian investors, founding
partner Luca Concone said in an interview in London. It’s
targeting 250 million euros by the end of this year, he said.  RAEF is seeking to tap the growing renewables market as
nations promote ways to cut polluting emissions, reduce fossil-
fuel imports and meet targets for clean-power production. Global
investment in the industry was a record $280 billion last year,
13 percent up on 2010 and more than five times the $53 billion
achieved in 2004, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “By regulation, this fund must invest in a minimum of four
different countries, though it will probably be more like five
to six in the end to diversify risk,” Concone said. “We must
be risk-averse every step of the way because in 25 years the
changes are massive.”  The fund will invest in at least three technologies and a
minimum of 30  power plants , including solar and onshore wind. At
least 80 percent of the investments will support facilities that
are already generating power and are connected to the grid and
receiving the relevant subsidies for clean-energy production.  Sweet Spot  Projects of 25 megawatts to 50 megawatts would be a “sweet
spot,” Concone said. Geographically,  RAEF  will invest in the
largest markets:  Germany , Italy, the U.S. and the U.K. It’s also
considering  Poland ,  Turkey  and  Canada  because their renewables
markets are developing, he said.  RAEF, a subsidiary fund of Solar Investment Group SIF, has
been designed to attract institutional investors including
pension funds, insurance companies, large family offices and
long-term sovereign funds. The fact that wind and solar farms
typically operate for 20 to 25 years means Concone’s 25-year
fund can hold a project for its entire lifespan, reducing the
volatility associated with selling an asset mid-life, he said.  RAEF will return a dividend of 8 percent to 10 percent a
year, like a bond, and return the capital at the end of maturity
without selling the assets, according to Concone. Its portfolio
will comprise about 75 percent debt and the remainder equity.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in  London  at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  