-- Treasuries Rise Second Consecutive Week on Refuge Demand
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-09-28T21:16:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/treasuries-head-for-weekly-gain-before-spending-report.html
Treasuries gained for a second
straight week as European leaders struggled to resolve the
region’s debt crisis and reports suggested slower U.S. growth,
sustaining the appeal of the world’s safest assets.  Benchmark 10-year notes pared gains after a  stress test 
showed Spanish banks’ capital shortfall is less than some
traders speculated. Yields dropped to three-week lows earlier as
American  consumer spending  and personal incomes stagnated. U.S.
government securities returned 0.6 percent this quarter, after
gaining 3 percent in the prior three months, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “The sovereign debt crisis and concern that global growth
is waning are propelling Treasuries,” said  David Coard , head of
fixed-income trading in New York at Williams Capital Group, a
brokerage for institutional investors.  The  10-year note  yield declined two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.63 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, after falling earlier
to as low as 1.60 percent, the least since Sept. 7. It dropped
12 basis points this week. The price of the 1.625 percent note
maturing in August 2022 increased 6/32, or $1.88 per $1,000 face
amount, to 99 29/32.  Thirty-year bond  yields fell two basis points to 2.82
percent. The long-bond yields reached 2.78 percent earlier. They
decreased 12 basis points on the week.  Volume Rises  Treasury volume reported today in New York by ICAP Plc, the
largest interdealer broker of  U.S. government debt , rose to $315
billion, from $298 billion yesterday. Daily volume has averaged
$242 billion in 2012. It touched $464 billion Sept. 13, the
highest in 13 months.  Ten-year note yields rose from a three-week low as an
independent test showed Spanish banks have a combined capital
shortfall of 59.3 billion euros ($76.3 billion). The examination
was a condition  Spain  accepted in July for a 100 billion-euro
rescue of its banking system.  “It’s the realization that it wasn’t as bad as expected,”
Jason Rogan, director of U.S. government trading at Guggenheim
Partners LLC, a New York-based brokerage for institutional
investors, said of the bank data. “There were early rumors
circulating that it could be as much as 150 billion euros.”  Treasuries rose earlier as Commerce Department data showed
personal spending barely rose in August after adjusting for
inflation. Household purchases increased 0.5 percent, mainly
reflecting a 0.4 percent jump in prices, leaving so-called real
spending up 0.1 percent.  Personal incomes  rose 0.1 percent in
August, department figures showed, matching the previous month’s
gain after the department revised down those figures.  Business Barometer  Business activity in the U.S. unexpectedly contracted in
September for the first time in three years, adding to signs
manufacturing will contribute less to the economic recovery. The
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said its business
barometer fell to 49.7 this month from 53 in August. A reading
of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and contraction. A
Bloomberg survey forecast a decline to 52.8.  The  Federal Reserve  said Sept. 13 it will buy $40 billion
of mortgage-based securities a month to spur growth.  “The economic data is weak, and the Fed is going to
continue to purchase whatever they need to,” said  Brian Edmonds 
in New York, head of  interest rates  at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one
of the 21 primary dealers that trade with the U.S. central bank.  In another program, the central bank purchased $1.8 billion
in Treasuries today due from February 2036 to August 2042 as
part of an effort to swap shorter-term Treasuries in its
holdings with those maturing in six to 30 years to lower
borrowing costs and boost economic growth.  Spain Optimism  Bonds fell yesterday for the first time in nine days,
snapping their longest rally in almost four years, as optimism
that Spain is moving closer to meeting budget-deficit targets
curbed the refuge appeal of U.S. government debt.  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s cabinet approved a
tax on lottery winnings and a cut in ministries’ spending to
shrink the euro area’s third-biggest budget deficit.
Demonstrators in Spain and  Greece  protesting budget cuts clashed
with police this week.  Treasury gains slowed this quarter from last as investors
sought higher rates than those available from government debt.  For all of 2012, Treasuries returned 2.3 percent as of
yesterday, while bonds in an index of U.S. investment-grade and
high-yield company debt gained 9.5 percent, the Bank of America
indexes show. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of shares gained
14 percent in the period, including reinvested dividends.  Treasuries were also supported this week as some investors
bought debt to increase the duration of their portfolios to
match benchmarks at the end of the month, such as the Barclays
Plc U.S. Treasury Index. Duration measures price sensitivity to
changes in yield, and is partly a function of maturity.  The Barclays index shows estimated duration forecast to
extend by 0.02 years for September, compared with 0.08 years at
the end of August, according to the firm, a primary dealer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  