-- Republican Voter Laws Face Scrutiny As Obama Wins Mount
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-09-28T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/republican-voter-laws-face-scrutiny-as-obama-wins-mount.html
With 39 days left before the U.S.
presidential election, time is running out for judges to resolve
voter access lawsuits in states including  Ohio  and  Florida  where
a few thousand votes may be the margin of victory between
President  Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney .  A federal appeals court in Cincinnati is considering Ohio
Attorney General Mike DeWine’s bid to overturn rulings blocking
Republican-sponsored restrictions on early voting and
provisional ballots. In Pennsylvania, voters are waiting to hear
whether courts will enforce laws requiring them to show photo
identification at the polls.  “The sooner these matters can be resolved the better,”
Matt McClellan, spokesman for Ohio Secretary of State Jon Husted,
a Republican, said in a telephone interview. “They’re in an
expedited process and we hope they will be resolved well in
advance of the election.”  Much of the litigation stems from revisions of election
procedures Republican lawmakers passed after Obama’s election in
2008. Proponents argue the laws are needed to prevent fraud and
help elections run smoothly. Democrats and voter advocacy groups
claim the measures are aimed at disenfranchising probable
Democratic voters in a veiled effort to limit turnout forObama.  There are at least 15 cases pending nationwide over
election law limits on early voting, voter registration and
voter identification. Of those, almost half are in states where
both candidates contend they can win. A majority of cases that
have led to court rulings so far have been decided in favor of
opponents to new restrictions.  In  Wisconsin  yesterday, opponents of a voter ID law won a
court victory almost guaranteeing the requirement won’t be in
place there for the Nov. 6 election.  ’Not Unprecedented’  “It’s not unprecedented to have these last-minute lawsuits
over voting process,” Edward Foley, director of the election
law program at Ohio State University’s Moritz College of Law in
Columbus, said in a telephone interview. “They’ve just
snowballed since Bush v. Gore.” The presidential election in
2000 was decided in that case by the U.S. Supreme Court.  This month, Republican-sponsored measures continued to
suffer adverse court rulings. Initiatives aimed at purging non-
citizens from the rolls in Iowa and  Texas  were put on hold,
while  Pennsylvania ’s voter ID law was sent back to a lower court
for review. And New Hampshire was forced to end a plan to
require college students to register their vehicles in the state
in order to vote.  Significant Challenges  Florida, with 29 electoral votes, combines with
Pennsylvania and Ohio to make up almost 25 percent of the 270
needed to secure the presidency.  Two of the most significant challenges, Foley said, involve
voting laws in Ohio where Obama and Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor, both see a path to victory. No
Republican has been elected president without carrying Ohio,
which has 18 electoral votes.  Obama won the state by 262,224 votes in 2008. Former
President George W. Bush won Ohio by 118,775 votes in 2004. A
Quinnipiac University/ New York  Times/CBS News poll this week
said Obama has a 53 percent to 43 percent advantage there over
Romney.  A federal judge in Ohio, ruling Aug. 31 in a lawsuit filed
by Obama’s campaign, ordered the restoration of three days of
early voting for all citizens that the Republican-controlled
legislature cut back to members of the armed services and few
others. In that case, Obama for America claimed as support for
its case that, in the three days leading up to the 2008 election,
93,000 Ohio voters cast their ballots.  The judge ruled that it was unconstitutional to take away
three days of early voting for most citizens in the state while
allowing Ohioans serving in the military to have them.  Military Voters  DeWine, a Republican, appealed, arguing that Ohio has
previously allowed such a distinction between military voters
and civilian voters. The U.S. Court of Appeals in Cincinnati
agreed to expedite Ohio’s appeal, though it has yet to schedule
an argument. Early voting in Ohio begins Oct. 2.  Several U.S. military groups, including the National Guard
Association of the U.S. and the Marine Corps League, have
intervened in the case, supporting DeWine. The American Center
for Law and Justice, a conservative activist group, created a
Facebook campaign alleging that the “lawsuit could reverse
decades of military voting rights.”  The same federal appeals court on Oct. 1 will hear
arguments in the state’s challenge to a lower court ruling over
the counting of provisional ballots.  Ohio Ballots  U.S. District Judge Algenon Marbley in Columbus held Aug.
27 that Ohio’s provisional ballots can’t be thrown out if
they’re filed in the wrong precinct because of poll-worker error.
In 2008, Ohio rejected 14,355 so-called wrong-precinct ballots,
according to the judge’s decision.  “The court may struggle with ambiguity in these two
cases,” Ohio State’s Foley said of the election law challenges
before the federal appeals court. “Neither case is open or
shut.”  In Pennsylvania, the state supreme court on Sept. 18 set
aside a lower-court ruling upholding a voter ID law and asked
the judge to revisit his decision. The judge was told to assess
whether all citizens will be able to obtain allowable forms of
ID. The state high court, in its 4-2 decision, asked
Commonwealth Court Judge Richard Simpson, a Republican, to
submit a so-called supplemental opinion by Oct. 2. He held
hearings on the matter this week.  Two Democratic justices dissented from the majority’s move,
saying they would have blocked the law outright. They chastised
their colleagues for sending the case back to Simpson less than
two months before the election.  Pennsylvania ‘Punt’  “The eyes of the nation are upon us,” Justice Debra McCloskey Todd wrote, “and this court has chosen to punt rather
than to act.”  A state analysis found Pennsylvania’s photo ID requirement
might exclude as many as 759,000 eligible voters, or 9 percent
of its electorate, from voting in the presidential election. In
2008, Obama won the state by 620,478 votes.  The Quinnipiac poll said Obama has a 54 percent to 42
percent advantage over Romney in the state.  As of last week, Pennsylvania had issued about 9,000 of an
estimated 100,000 needed IDs since the law took effect in March,
according to an American Civil Liberties Union chapter there.  Wisconsin’s attempt to revive its new voter ID law in time
for the election failed yesterday before that state’s supreme
court. Two lower court judges found the new law unconstitutional
in separate decisions earlier this year.  Rejected Law  Dane County Circuit Court Judge Richard Neiss in Madison
rejected the law in March in a lawsuit filed by the League of
Women Voters of Wisconsin. Judge David Flanagan in Madison ruled
the law invalid in July in a suit brought by the Milwaukee
branch of the National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People, or NAACP.  Wisconsin Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen, a Republican,
asked the state’s highest court last month to immediately review
the decisions. Neiss had denied the delay request in March, and
a state appeals court agreed. Flanagan denied the stay request
Sept. 14 in the NAACP case, citing the impending election.  “The inescapable reality is that the need for stability,
predictability and adequate preparation for the electoral
process strongly weighs against this court granting a stay and
thus changing the voting process at this late hour,” Flanagan
wrote. Yesterday, the supreme court refused a stay as well.  Wisconsin Court  The Wisconsin Supreme Court’s action means the state’s
voter ID law is dead for this election, said Susan Crawford, an
attorney for the League of Women Voters of Wisconsin.  Obama won Wisconsin by 414,818 votes in 2008.  In  Iowa , that state has given up on a Republican-backed
effort to purge non-citizens from the voter registration rolls
after a state judge Sept. 14 said the process would probably
create confusion for legitimate voters.  Iowa Secretary of State Matt Schultz, a Republican, isn’t
going to appeal the ruling temporarily barring the state from
using emergency-procedures to purge the rolls, said Chad Olsen,
his spokesman.  “Given the reality of the time constraints there wouldn’t
be any resolution before the election,” Olsen said. “For this
election, we’re done.”  Obama won Iowa in 2008 by 146,651 votes.  Earlier this month, Florida Governor Rick Scott, a
Republican, lost a federal court bid to throw out a challenge to
his initiative to purge non-citizens from voter registration
rolls ahead of the election.  Florida Battles  U.S. District Judge James Whittemore in Tampa ruled that a
complaint alleging the program requires pre-clearance under the
Voting Rights Act, in part due to historical discrimination
against minorities, may proceed. The judge wrote that he will
rule at a later date on whether the state effort to purge voter
rolls is subject to the federal voting law.  Republicans did score a few victories in voter law
challenges in September, one of which also involved Florida.  On Sept. 24, a federal judge in Jacksonville ruled the
state doesn’t need to provide 96 hours of early voting in all
counties for the election.  That ruling is separate from a federal case in  Washington 
where Florida agreed to keep 96 hours of early voting in five
counties covered under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act.  In the 2008 election, 54 percent of black voters in Florida
voted early -- twice the rate for whites, according to court
filings. A report paid for by the Democratic National Committee
stated that 1.1 million blacks voted in Florida in 2008. Obama
won there by 236,450 votes.  The Quinnipiac poll this week gave Obama a 53 percent to 44
percent lead in Florida over Romney.  Tennessee Victory  U.S. Representative Corrine Brown, who filed the challenge
in Jacksonville federal court, hasn’t decided whether to appeal,
according to Mike Collins, a spokesman for the Democratic
lawmaker.  And on Sept. 26, a Tennessee state judge in Nashville
dismissed a lawsuit brought by the city of  Memphis  and two
voters alleging the state’s new voter ID law is unconstitutional.  The plaintiffs claimed that 10 percent of the state’s
voters didn’t have an acceptable photo ID under the new law,
particularly impacting senior citizens, minorities and students,
likely Democratic voters.  Chancery Court Judge Carol McCoy ruled that the city didn’t
have the right to sue because it wasn’t a voter, and the
individuals still had time before the election to acquire the
right photo ID, plaintiffs’ lawyer George Barrett said in an
interview. Memphis hasn’t decided whether to appeal, Mary
Cashiola, a city spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The Ohio early voting cases are Obama for America v. Husted,
12-4055, 12-4076, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
(Cincinnati). The Ohio provisional ballot case is Northeast Ohio
Coalition for the Homeless v. Husted, 12-3916, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati). The Pennsylvania
case is Applewhite v. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 71 MAP 2012,
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington federal court
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit  at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  