-- Republican Lawmaker Attempts to Block U.S. Aid to Egypt
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-09-28T22:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/republican-lawmaker-attempts-to-block-u-s-aid-to-egypt.html
Representative Kay Granger, a Texas
Republican, said today she will block a White House move to give
 Egypt  $450 million in aid as part of its efforts to stabilize
the country and support its economy.  “This proposal comes to Congress at a point when the U.S.-
Egypt relationship has never been under more scrutiny, and
rightly so,” Granger, chairwoman of the House Appropriations
Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations, said in a
statement. “I am not convinced of the urgent need for this
assistance and I cannot support it at this time.”  “I have placed a hold on these funds,” she said. Granger
doesn’t have legal authority to prevent the administration from
releasing the money, making her action an informal effort to
stop the funding, according to a congressional aide who wasn’t
authorized to comment publicly.  The funding is part of $1 billion in debt relief the Obama
administration said it would give Egypt to stabilize its
faltering economy and support the country’s shaky transition to
democracy.  Granger has decided to oppose the aid because of her
concerns about Egypt’s new government, its policies and the
anti-U.S. demonstrations that rocked the capitol, Cairo, two
weeks ago, according to the aide. The aide said that the funds
were appropriated earlier and hadn’t yet been spent.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , in  New York  for the
annual  United Nations General Assembly , met this morning with a
group of countries seeking to support Middle Eastern nations
making the transition to democracy. Clinton called on countries
in attendance to support these nations.  ‘Difficult Transition’  “Many of our partners are also making the difficult
transition from protest to politics, and they need our support
as they take on the different responsibilities of leadership,”
Clinton said at the G8-Deauville Partnership with Arab Countries
in Transition.  “But economic and social challenges did not disappear with
the dictators,” she said. “Too many people still can’t find
jobs, and young and growing populations crave a sense of
opportunity and self-determination.”  Clinton has repeatedly warned that failing economies create
openings for extremists to take advantage of grievances,
particularly among the young unemployed.  In a Sept. 26 speech to the UN, Egypt’s President Mohamed Mursi decried the way donor countries put “conditionalities”
on the “necessary funding for development.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  