-- Richard Thomas Yells, Sneers in ‘Enemy’: Jeremy Gerard
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-09-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/richard-thomas-yells-sneers-in-enemy-jeremy-gerard.html
Richard Thomas does everything but
twirl his mustache as the bogeyman in the Broadway revival of
“ An Enemy of the People .”  That’s because he doesn’t have a mustache to twirl. The
other accouterments of villainy -- black top hat and bowtie
framing a lip-curling sneer, cape and cane wielded with menacing
flourishes -- are all accounted for in Doug Hughes’s clipped
vaudeville of a production.  Thomas (the reassuring voice of Mercedes-Benz, if you’re
too young to remember “ The Waltons ”) plays Peter Stockmann,
the mayor of a Norwegian village whose newly upgraded mineral
baths hold out the promise of prosperity.  Henrik Ibsen’s 1882 play, shrunk and simplified in a new
version by Rebecca Lenkiewicz, pits the pro-business mayor
against a doctor who has confirmed irrefutably that the waters
of the spa have been turned toxic by effluence from a nearby
tannery. Only by starting over from scratch can the waters be
purified.  The bad-news doctor happens to be the mayor’s brother,
Thomas (Boyd Gaines). It would be understating to say the
fraternal bond is stretched as Hughes has the two actors resort
to much hollering, face-reddening and threat-making in this
Manhattan Theatre Club production.  Like ’Jaws’  The plot may remind you of “ Jaws ” -- don’t let that baby-
munching shark force us to close the beaches! -- and Ibsen’s
play has indeed been cited as a source.  But there’s more to “An Enemy of the People” than Hughes
and Lenkiewicz seem to be concerned with. Thomas’s shocking
transformation from self-congratulating hero to democracy-
renouncing demagogue is rendered incomprehensible by the
compression. Insisting that the majority is always wrong and
needs to be led by the enlightened minority, he’s a proto-47-
percenter.  Thomas, whose silent-film expressionism might be better
suited to “Chaplin,” makes it difficult for the rest of the
company to do much more than respond in kind. That’s especially
true for Gaines, a fine actor reduced to much screeching and
over-gesticulating of his own.  John Lee Beatty has provided his usual comfy-looking
premises, lit in hues of gold by Ben Stanton. Catherine Zuber’s
colorful costumes are formally correct and nail every character.  Theatergoers looking for a Cliffs Notes version of a modern
classic may be grateful for the two-hour show, but I doubt the
Norwegian would.  Through Nov. 11 at the Samuel J. Friedman Theatre, 261 W.
47th St. Information: +1- 212-239-6200;
 http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  movies  and  N.Y. Weekend .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 