-- Trigger Subsidy Cuts Imperiling Build America Rally: Muni Credit
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-09-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/trigger-subsidy-cuts-imperiling-build-america-rally-muni-credit.html
Savannah,  Georgia , sold $16 million
of Build America Bonds three years ago to pay for work on its
water system, seizing on the federal government’s promise to pay
35 percent of the interest bills.  Now, as a result of the U.S. budget stalemate, Savannah
joins municipalities from  Hawaii  to  Maine  facing the prospect
that the Treasury Department will welsh on obligations for the
program, created by President  Barack Obama ’s 2009 stimulus.  Investors may be stung too: If the U.S. trims payments,
some localities can repurchase the taxable bonds, which offer
higher yields than tax-exempts, at face value. In the case of
Savannah, that would be about 14 percent below where the debt
traded last week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We didn’t want to be obligated to pay that higher
interest rate and then have that subsidy not be there,” Richard Evans, Savannah’s chief financial officer, said of the decision
to include the buyback clause. “We would want to let the dust
settle on things and see how the market was dealing with it.”  Localities nationwide sold $188 billion of Build Americas
before the program expired at the end of 2010. The issuers face
potential subsidy cuts from automatic reductions in federal
spending set to take effect in 2013. Payments to states and
municipalities for the debt would drop by $255 million, or 7.6
percent, next year, the Office of Management and Budget said
Sept. 14.  1,200 Programs  The office’s announcement laid out how more than 1,200
programs would be affected if Congress and the president can’t
agree on a plan to shrink the U.S. deficit.  An impasse would force Obama to cut a combined $109 billion
from next year’s budget. A bipartisan group of senators said
this week they will work to craft a deficit-reduction plan
intended to avert across-the-board cuts to defense and domestic
programs set to start in January.  The risk that borrowers may buy back the debt, in some
cases at a loss to debt-holders, may undermine support for
reviving Build Americas and jeopardize a rally in the
securities. The bonds are on a pace to beat Treasuries and tax-
exempt munis for a third-straight year.  “It could be damaging,” said John Hallacy, New York-based
head of muni research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “It
could lead to some strong selling.”  Build Americas have returned 10.1 percent this year,
compared with 6.4 percent for the broader $3.7 trillion muni
market and 2.4 percent for Treasuries, Bank of America data
show. They are little changed this month, while tax-exempts have
earned 0.4 percent.  Money-Saver  Some 2,275 Build America issues were sold, cutting
borrowing costs by about $20 billion compared with tax-frees,
according to the Treasury. The obligations pumped money into
public works and made it easier for states and cities to borrow
by drawing investors for whom traditional munis’ tax-exemption
had no appeal.  About two-thirds of Build Americas have call provisions
allowing local governments to buy back the securities, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Such provisions often allowed borrowers to repurchase the
bonds at a price below so-called make-whole calls, under which
investors receive a premium, in cases where the subsidy is cut,
according to the National Association of Bond Lawyers.  Investors may sell bonds that can be called at face value
if it becomes clearer that Congress will be unable to reach a
deal, said Matthew Buscone, a muni bond manager in  Boston  with
Breckinridge Capital Advisors, which oversees about $17 billion.  ‘Big Risk’  “There’s a pretty big risk, obviously, if you were
planning on holding that coupon and enjoying that extra yield,”
he said. “People might start selling just in the sense it’s a
risk you can take off the table.”  In trading yesterday, the  yield  on 10-year AAA munis fell
0.02 percentage point to 1.74 percent. It dropped to 1.63
percent July 27, the lowest since at least January 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Build America Bonds yield about 4.3
percent on average, or about  1.5 percentage points  more than 30-
year Treasuries, according to a Wells Fargo index.  When Columbus,  Ohio , sold more than $190 million of Build
America bonds in 2010 for projects such as roads and parks, it
retained the option to buy back its debt at par should the
federal payments be cut.  Waiting Approach  Megan Kilgore, assistant auditor for the city, said there
is no immediate plan to do so. The city can bear the cost of
subsidy losses announced by the Obama administration, she said.
A 10-year Columbus bond traded for as much as $115 for $100
worth on Sept. 18, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We’re just going to wait it out,” she said. “At this
point, I don’t have significant concern.”  Analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and
Citigroup Inc. said in reports that they see limited risk of a
wave of refinancings.  JPMorgan analysts led by Peter DeGroot said in a report
this month that Congress probably will reach a deal to avert the
automatic budget cuts, given the risk to economic growth. Even
so, the analysts said that based on Build Americas it reviewed,
issuers would have to pay a premium that would make it costly to
refinance, given current  interest rates  and how little of the
subsidy they stand to lose initially.  ‘Undermining Support’  Dan Close, who helps manage about $800 million of Build
America bond funds in  Chicago  for Nuveen Investments, said the
greatest consequence of a subsidy cut may be to sap interest in
renewing the program. The Obama administration in February
proposed reviving it at a lower subsidy rate. The recommendation
didn’t advance in Congress.  “Even if this never does go through, it still has had the
effect of really undermining the support that issuers might have
in a program that might be revived down the line,” Close said.  The Bay Area Toll Authority, the agency financing
construction of a bridge across  San Francisco Bay , sold $3
billion of Build Americas to help pay for the span. Even if a
subsidy cut has no impact on investors, there would be lingering
concern that a cash-strapped federal government could shrink
payments even more, said Brian Mayhew, Oakland-based chief
financial officer of the authority.  “There’s no winning in this scenario,” he said. “The
concept of the federal government reneging on a promise just
leaves the question of when will they renege on the rest of
it.”  Following are pending sales:  MINNESOTA OFFICE OF HIGHER EDUCATION is set to issue $375
million of revenue debt as soon as next week, according to the
preliminary official statement. (Updated Sept. 28)  NORTH TEXAS TOLLWAY AUTHORITY plans to sell about $136
million in revenue bonds as soon as next week for refunding,
according to an offering document. (Updated Sept. 28)  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  