-- Romney or Obama Win Means No Escape From Fiscal Crisis of Debt
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-09-28T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/romney-or-obama-win-means-no-escape-from-fiscal-crisis-of-debt.html
Consumers, banks and businesses
have been busy getting their  balance sheets  into better shape
since the U.S. economic recovery began more than three years
ago. Now, it’s the government’s turn.  Whoever wins the presidency will contend with a budget on a
trajectory dubbed unsustainable by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke . Barack Obama or Mitt Romney will have to tame a
deficit that has topped $1 trillion in each of the past three
years, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its November issue.
How the new president goes about it will influence the direction
of financial markets and define the economy and society for his
four-year term and beyond.  “We’ve made a lot of progress getting the private-sector
balance sheet in order,” says  Mark Zandi , chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics in West Chester, Pennsylvania. “Where we’ve
got a lot of work to do is on the public side.”  Research from Harvard University economists Carmen Reinhart
and  Kenneth Rogoff  shows why it’s necessary to do that work.
Their data on sovereign indebtedness, which go back more than
two centuries, demonstrate that growth has been hobbled when
central government debt is more than 90 percent of annual gross
domestic product five years in a row. The U.S. is now at the
Reinhart-Rogoff debt threshold.  Gross federal debt has exceeded 90 percent of GDP for the
past two years and is projected to remain above that level
through 2017 at least, according to the White House’s Office of
Management and Budget. Even publicly held debt, which excludes
the special-issue securities held by the Social Security trust
fund and other government agencies, reached  68 percent  of GDP in
2011.  ‘Subpar Economy’  “It’s not about we’re going to have a financial crisis
tomorrow,” Reinhart says. “We’re just going to have this subpar
economy.”  The sea of red ink is pushing business executives to get
involved in the debt debate and should force political leaders
to act, says  David Cote , chief executive officer of Honeywell
International Inc., who was a member of the debt reduction panel
created by Obama and led by former Republican Senator  Alan Simpson  and former White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles, a
Democrat.  “We have more debt on a percent-of-GDP-basis today -- by a
large amount -- than we did during the Reagan years, World War
I, the Civil War, the Revolutionary War,” Cote said at the
Bloomberg Markets 50 Most Influential Summit on Sept. 13. The
only time the U.S. was deeper in debt was during World War II.
“And then, we had a very good reason,” he said.  Debt Clock  Cote is on the  steering committee  of the Campaign to Fix
the Debt, a group pushing for a comprehensive plan to get the
federal budget on better footing.  Budget matters have permeated the presidential campaign. At
their convention in Tampa, Florida, in August, Republicans
displayed a running tally of the rising national debt -- 14
digits, about $16 trillion -- above the stage. A week later, at
the Democratic convention in Charlotte,  North Carolina , former
President  Bill Clinton  reminisced about the budget surplus at
the end of his second term in 2000.  The costs of doing nothing are rising. Unless and until
business leaders see that the gridlock in Washington can be
broken, they’re going to be reluctant to make investments or
hire more workers, according to Cote. The political inaction
hurts growth. “What it causes you to do is sit there and say,
‘I’m better off waiting right now. I shouldn’t spend my
shareowners’ money until I have some sense of where things are
going,’” he said.  Fiscal Cliff  Fear that politicians will be unable to reverse the long-
term trend in the debt is compounded, in Cote’s view, by the
possibility that they will fail to stop the huge tax increases
and spending cuts scheduled to go into effect starting next
year. Although leading the country off this so-called fiscal
cliff would almost halve the  budget deficit , economists say it’s
exactly the wrong way to go about it if you want to limit harm
to the economy. The abrupt austerity would likely strangle the
fragile three-year-old recovery.  Maya MacGuineas, president of the  Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget , based in Washington, says there’s
growing support on Capitol Hill for tackling the debt in a
constructive manner. She says she’s hopeful that a “grand
bargain” to put the government’s finances on a sounder footing
may be possible between a newly elected president and Congress,
helped along by the need to deal with the fiscal cliff.  Grand Bargain  The term grand bargain is shorthand for a compromise that
addresses the long-term trend of a budget that gets harder to
balance as health-care costs rise and the population ages. The
goal is to put a deal in place now that shows the government is
committed to a plan to shrink the deficit -- without shocking
the economy in the near term.  Alan Blinder , a former Fed vice chairman who’s now a
professor at Princeton University, says his ideal policy would
be $500 billion of stimulus up front coupled with $5 trillion in
deficit cuts over the following 10 years. The former is
unlikely, he says, with Republicans having made stimulus a dirty
word in Washington. And the latter may not happen either, as
long as  interest rates  stay low. Blinder says policy makers will
likely tackle the debt piecemeal, with limited changes in the
tax code and compromises on spending rather than an overarching
agreement.  “There is more discussion about dealing with the deficit
than I’ve heard in a long time,” says Howard Gleckman, resident
fellow at the Urban Institute and editor of the TaxVox blog.
Still, he says he remains skeptical that the talk will translate
into action. Like Blinder, he says low interest rates allow
policy makers to kick the can down the road.  Low Yields  Yields on Treasury securities are hovering near record lows
as the U.S. benefits from its status as a safe haven for
investors during a period of financial turmoil in Europe.  Politicians will be tempted to delay needed efforts to deal
with the debt because borrowing costs are low, says  Robert
Litan , director of research for Bloomberg Government in
Washington. “We have a lot more freedom to be irresponsible,” he
says.  That’s a risky path, says MacGuineas, who has former
politicians and policy officials from both the Republican and
Democratic parties on her group’s board. “Playing chicken with
the credit markets is a dangerous game,” she says.  A surge in borrowing costs is the likely scenario when debt
gets out of hand. Rogoff, Reinhart and her husband,  Vincent Reinhart , a former Fed official who’s now chief U.S. economist
for Morgan Stanley, authored a paper earlier this year that
examined 26 separate episodes in 22 countries in which central
government obligations rose above the 90-percent-of-GDP mark.  Growth Hit  In the most common scenario, debt above that threshold led
to higher interest rates that in turn created a drag on growth,
the researchers found. In other instances, the economy slowed
because of the need to raise taxes and cut spending,
particularly on public investment. Either way, the hit to growth
was inescapable.  “The long-term risks of high debt are real,” the economists
wrote in their paper, published in April on the  website  of the
National Bureau of Economic Research.  Advanced economies with debts above the 90 percent
threshold grew on average 2.3 percent a year, compared with 3.5
percent growth in lower-debt periods, the research showed. The
periods of elevated debt lasted an average of 23 years. In spite
of the dangers, the economists said, they’re not advocating
rapid reductions in government debt during times of extremely
weak growth and high unemployment.  Unemployment  Growth in the U.S. has indeed been subpar. Gross domestic
product will expand 2.1 percent in 2013, not much different from
the 2.2 percent growth expected for this year, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg in
September. Unemployment will stay high, averaging 7.9 percent
for the year, economists predict. The jobless rate stood at 8.1
percent in August and had been above 8 percent for 43 straight
months.  In the past, such a middling outlook would have had
politicians talking about ways for the government to stimulate
the economy. Not now. Instead, the focus is on how much -- and
how quickly -- the government should scale back its support.  “It’s an odd situation,” says  Dean Maki , chief U.S.
economist at Barclays Plc in New York. “Usually, the choice is,
do you do some stimulus and try to boost the economy? But now
we’re talking about the extent of fiscal tightening.”  Romney’s Approach  Both President Obama and Republican nominee Romney promise
deficit reduction -- although their approaches differ radically.  Romney, the former Massachusetts governor, pledges in his
stump speeches and on his campaign website that he would balance
the budget within a decade through deep reductions in government
outlays, while devoting more resources to national defense. He
wants to cut federal spending to 20 percent of GDP by 2016, from
about 24 percent today. He also proposes to overhaul the tax
code and federal health-care programs for the poor and elderly,
while reducing income tax rates by 20 percent.  The broad outline of Romney’s plan implies a government
with limited resources to maintain the social programs of the
Great Society and the New Deal, although he hasn’t provided much
detail on what spending he would cut and what tax deductions he
would eliminate.  Obama’s Budget  Obama’s debt reduction goals are more modest. During the
next 10 years, he would reduce, not eliminate, the deficit,
according to the most recent White House budget proposal. He
aims to stop the growth of the federal debt as a share of the
economy while preserving the government’s role in aiding the
needy.  The president proposes to reduce the budget gap through
shallower spending cuts and higher taxes for top earners. He
backs increased public investment as a way to promote economic
growth.  After a decade, Romney’s proposals would be about $300
billion a year below Obama’s plan on revenue and as much as $1
trillion below it on spending.  “They do present a rather stark contrast, both in theory
and in the numbers,” says  Bob Bixby , executive director of the
Concord Coalition, an Arlington, Virginia-based nonprofit group
that advocates for deficit reduction.  Although fiscal responsibility is a perennial campaign
promise,  Alice Rivlin  says there might be reasons to expect that
debt reduction efforts will gain traction after the election on
Nov. 6. Rivlin, the first director of the Congressional Budget
Office back in 1975, points out that the president and the
Republican speaker of the House,  John Boehner , tried to
negotiate a far-reaching budget pact last year as the
confrontation over the debt limit roiled the capital.  ‘Came Close’  “I believe that they came close,” Rivlin says. No one knows
what will trigger action on the debt. “The last run-up to a very
bitter campaign may not be the best moment to assess,” she says.
“It may look better after the election.”  The crisis in the  euro zone , where bond buyers have pushed
up the borrowing costs for indebted countries such as Greece,
Portugal and Italy, adds urgency to U.S. efforts to find a more
sustainable budgetary path.  Harvard’s  Carmen Reinhart  says instances of debt climbing
above 90 percent of GDP in an advanced economy have been
relatively rare since World War II. In the European examples,
including Greece and Italy, the penalty for their fiscal
irresponsibility can be seen in slower economic expansion over
many years. “They’re not poster children for growth.”  ‘Not Delusional’  For the U.S., Reinhart says, the debt reduction framework
created by the Simpson-Bowles commission would be a good
starting point for a political compromise. “It was bipartisan by
people who were not delusional,” she says.  Rivlin, who was on the Simpson-Bowles commission, says the
euro-area sovereign-debt crisis could be what forces action. If
Europe falls apart completely, it would underscore the hazard of
fiscal recklessness. If Europe begins to work through its
problems, on the other hand, it would present investors with an
alternative to safe-haven Treasury purchases -- and yields on
U.S. government debt might start to rise. “Once Europe starts to
get its act together, then we’ll be much more exposed.”  Rivlin and others point to the fiscal cliff as another
possible trigger to get politicians moving -- or it could be an
economic disaster. More than $600 billion of tax increases and
spending cuts are slated to take effect in 2013 if Congress and
the president can’t compromise and alter the statutes in place
today. The tax cuts for income, dividends and capital gains
enacted during  George W. Bush ’s tenure in the White House would
expire. A payroll tax cut and extended unemployment benefits are
also due to lapse. And some $65 billion in automatic cuts in
government outlays -- half of them from defense -- would take
effect as a result of last year’s deal to raise the debt limit.  Tax Increase  That would be  deficit reduction  on steroids, cutting the
budget gap almost in half, to $641 billion. If lawmakers do
nothing, 83 percent of all U.S. households would face tax
increases, averaging $3,701, according to the  Tax Policy Center ,
a nonpartisan research group in Washington. The Congressional
Budget Office forecasts that it would tip the U.S. into
recession.  “If the debt ceiling debate was playing with fire, this is
playing with nitroglycerin,” Honeywell’s Cote said at the
Bloomberg Markets conference. “There’s the opportunity for our
government to spark a global recession with how they handle this
fiscal cliff.”  Neel Kashkari, head of global equities at Pacific
Investment Management Co., expects that Washington will avoid
the full impact of the scheduled tax and spending changes by
acting after the November election and before the next
presidential term begins in January.  Lame Duck Session  “There will likely be a deal during the lame duck session,”
Kashkari said, also at the conference. He predicts a compromise
that will limit the effect to about $250 billion in 2013. “We
are going to avoid recession, but it will be a meaningful drag
on the economy.”  Cote also sees a chance that the fiscal cliff will spur
Congress and the presidential winner to action -- along with the
business community.  Corporate leaders failed to speak up forcefully when debate
over the debt ceiling threatened to push the country to default
on its debt in the summer of 2011. “We thought it was the normal
political baloney that those guys go through.” Those in the
executive suite know better this time, according to Cote, and
the pressure will grow after the election on Congress and the
White House to put the country on a real and reasonable fiscal
path.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  