-- Rubber Books Quarterly Gain as Stimulus Speculation Increases
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-09-28T07:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/rubber-set-for-quarterly-gain-as-stimulus-speculation-increases.html
Rubber advanced to a one-week high
in  Tokyo , extending a quarterly rally, as speculation increased
that governments worldwide will take additional measures to
bolster growth after data showed a further slowdown. Prices in
Shanghai rallied to the highest close since May 11.  March-delivery rubber settled at 260.5 yen a kilogram
($3,361 a metric ton) after jumping as much as 2.6 percent to
261.3 yen, the highest level since Sept. 20. The most-active
contract on Tokyo Commodity Exchange has gained 8.5 percent this
quarter, paring this year’s loss to 1.1 percent. It’s 20 percent
higher this month, the first gain in seven.  Asian stocks gained and oil climbed, set for the best
quarter this year, after reports showing deflation in  Japan  and
shrinking output in  South Korea  raised speculation governments
will do more to spur growth. Spain has pledged to meet a deficit
target, spurring prospects it will qualify for an international
rescue that will help to stem  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “Rubber chased a rally in oil and stocks as concerns eased
over the European crisis and speculation grew for additional
stimulus,”  Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at broker Fujitomi Co. in
Tokyo, said today by phone.  Japan’s consumer prices in August matched the steepest
decline in 16 months, and the nation’s  industrial production 
fell more than economists forecast, while output in South Korea
dropped for a third month, according to data released today.  Thai rubber exporters that ship more than 5,000 tons a year
are required to cut some cargoes to fall into line with the
government’s commitment to limiting the country’s supplies,
according to a statement from the farm ministry today.  Thailand 
has agreed with Indonesia and Malaysia to cut exports by a total
of 140,000 tons, starting from Oct. 1, to try to buoy prices.  January-delivery rubber jumped 3.8 percent to close at
25,000  yuan  ($3,976) a ton on the Shanghai Futures Exchange,
gaining 8.4 percent this quarter. Thai rubber free-on-board
increased 1 percent to 97.65 baht ($3.17) a kilogram today,
Rubber Research Institute of Thailand data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  