-- Russia Says Iranian Nuclear Deadlock Risks Military Strike
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-09-28T15:07:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/russia-says-iranian-nuclear-deadlock-risks-military-strike-1-.html
The deadlock in talks on  Iran ’s
disputed nuclear program is increasing the risk of a military
strike on the Persian Gulf country, Russian Deputy Foreign
Minister Sergei Ryabkov said in an interview.  “The alternative to a diplomatic resolution is growing
escalation and rising risks that something irreparable, a
military action, will take place,” Ryabkov,  Russia ’s top
negotiator on Iran, said in Moscow today.  Russia opposes  Israel ’s call to set explicit “red lines”
limiting Iran’s enrichment of uranium that would justify
military action if crossed, according to Ryabkov. Russia is
proposing a new meeting next month between Iran and six world
powers seeking to negotiate a deal allaying concerns that Iran
is aiming to produce nuclear weapons, the diplomat said.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  warned in a
speech at the United Nations General Assembly yesterday that the
Islamic Republic had already passed the first stage toward
nuclear weaponization and “by next spring, at most next
summer” will be weeks or months away from making its first
bomb. That was the Israeli leader’s most specific timing for a
crisis point. In recent months, Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  has
said that Israel may feel compelled to strike Iran’s enrichment
facilities as early as this fall.  ‘Red Line’  “Crossing any red line shouldn’t automatically lead to an
attack,” Ryabkov said. “Every situation needs a distinct
assessment. Except when responding to an act of aggression, the
use of outside force strictly requires the sanction of the
 Security Council .”  Iran, which says its nuclear facilities are for peaceful
civilian purposes, has vowed to retaliate if attacked. Highly-
enriched uranium can be used to power electricity or manufacture
an atomic bomb.  Iran’s top nuclear negotiator,  Saeed Jalili , on Sept. 18
met European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton , who is
leading the negotiations on  Iran’s nuclear program . The last
round of high-level talks between Iran and the six world powers
-- China, France, Germany, Russia, the U.K. and U.S. -- ended
without any progress in Moscow in June.  ‘No Movement’  “We are concerned that there’s practically no real
movement in the direction of finding a settlement to Iran’s
nuclear program,” Ryabkov said. “Lack of movement may prod
those looking for a way out of the situation and for options
unacceptable for Russia, such as the military one.”  Iran’s uranium enrichment activities are under
international monitoring to prevent diversion to weapons use. To
produce a bomb, Iran would have to further process its stockpile
of 20 percent enriched uranium, a level used to fuel its medical
reactor, to 90 percent to make a single bomb.  Negotiators for six world powers proposed in June that Iran
ship out its stockpiles of 20 percent enriched uranium and stop
enrichment at Fordo in exchange for energy and aviation
incentives. Israel wants all Iranian  uranium enrichment  halted
and enriched uranium removed.  Iran increased the amount of 20 percent-enriched uranium
produced at Fordo to 189.4 kilograms (417.6 pounds) from 145
kilograms in May, the  International Atomic Energy Agency  said on
Aug. 30. Its stockpile of low-enriched uranium at Natanz,
purified to less than 5 percent, grew to 6,876 kilograms from
6,232 kilograms.  Russia has no evidence that Iran has enriched uranium above
the 20 percent level, Ryabkov said. Production in Natanz and
Fordo is used to supply a research reactor in Tehran, not to
weaponize the material, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  