-- S&P 500 Posts Biggest Weekly Drop Since June on Economy
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-09-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/s-p-500-posts-biggest-weekly-drop-since-june-on-economy.html
U.S. stocks  fell for the week, as
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posted its biggest drop since
June, on concern Europe’s debt crisis is worsening and stimulus
measures may not be enough to boost economic growth.  The  S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index (S15HOME)  slid 7.3 percent
for the first drop in five weeks amid worse-than-expected
housing data. Technology stocks and commodity producers led
declines as investors sold shares of companies most tied to
economic swings.  Apple (AAPL)  Inc. posted its biggest drop since May
after the release of its iPhone 5.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  slid 6.2
percent as it cut its  earnings forecast .  The S&P 500 erased 1.3 percent to 1,440.67, the biggest
weekly slump since June 1. The benchmark index still climbed 2.4
percent in September for the fourth straight monthly gain, and
ended the third quarter with a 5.8 percent advance. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  lost 142.34 points, or 1.1 percent, to
13,437.13 for the week.  “The economy doesn’t have much in the way of momentum,”
James Dunigan, who helps oversee $110 billion as chief
investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth Management,
said in a telephone interview. The Federal Reserve “is doing
all it can but it’s really just more of a safety net than any
real igniter. They’re trying to awaken animal spirits but
they’re not getting very far.”  Data during the week showed the U.S. economy grew 1.3
percent in the second quarter, less than previously estimated,
while monthly U.S. business activity unexpectedly contracted for
the first time in three years. At the same time, confidence
among American consumers rose to a four-month high.  Austerity Package  Stocks fell as European leaders clashed on ways to stem the
debt crisis. The Bank of Spain said the economy kept falling at
a “significant pace” in the third quarter, and the government
announced its fifth austerity package in what may be a move to
head off tougher conditions demanded as part of a potential
European bailout.  China ’s manufacturers and retailers are less
optimistic about sales than they were three months ago and are
cutting jobs, according to a survey.  Equities also slumped as Charles Plosser, president of the
Philadelphia Fed, said in a Sept. 25 speech that the stimulus
program announced this month probably won’t boost growth or
hiring and may jeopardize the central bank’s credibility. The
S&P 500 reached an almost five-year high on Sept. 14 after the
Fed unveiled another round of quantitative easing and the
European Central Bank announced an unlimited bond-buying plan.  The  equity index  has advanced since June 1 amid optimism
central banks around the world will take steps to stimulate the
economy. It is 8.6 percent from its all-time record set in
October 2007.  Dribs, Drabs  “The major push in September was from the ECB and the idea
that the euro zone will survive,” Brian Jacobsen, who helps
oversee about $209 billion as chief portfolio strategist at
Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin , said
by e-mail. “There’s the prospect of fiscal stimulus from China,
which will likely come in dribs and drabs until the changeover
in leadership,” he said. “All of this conspires to push stocks
higher.”  Nine out of  10 groups  in the S&P 500 fell for the week,
with companies most tied to economic growth posting the biggest
declines. The  Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index (CYC)  dropped for the
second week, falling 3 percent.  The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilders Index lost 7.3 percent
for its first weekly drop since Aug. 24.  Purchases of new U.S.
homes  declined 0.3 percent in August to a 373,000 annual pace,
compared with economists’ estimates for a rise to 380,000.
Americans also signed fewer contracts than forecast to purchase
previously owned homes in August.  Homebuilders Tumble  All  11 stocks  in the gauge fell.  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) , the
largest U.S. homebuilders, declined 8.7 percent to $15.50.  Toll
Brothers Inc. (TOL) , the biggest luxury-home builder in the U.S.,
slumped 8.8 percent to $33.23.  Material and energy stocks declined 1.9 percent and 1.5
percent, respectively. Caterpillar slid 6.2 percent, the most
since May 18, to $86.04 as the world’s biggest construction and
mining equipment maker cut its forecast for 2015 earnings after
commodity producers reduced capital expenditure.  “We’ve seen a slowing in economic growth that was more
than we expected,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said in a presentation to analysts at the MINExpo
industry conference in Las Vegas. “We think ’13 could look like
2012 in terms of worldwide economic growth.”  Technology companies slumped the most among the 10 groups,
retreating 2.4 percent. Apple, the world’s most valuable
company, fell 4.7 percent to $667.11 for its biggest drop since
May 18 and first weekly slump since July.  IPhone Sales  Debut weekend sales for Apple’s iPhone 5 fell short of some
analysts’ estimates after supply constraints delayed shipments.
Later in the week, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  apologized
for Apple’s new iPhone mapping application, which replaced
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s software and has been criticized for flaws such as
misrouted directions and inaccurately located landmarks.  Google rallied for an 11th straight week. The shares gained
2.8 percent to $754.50 and touched a record $756.50 during the
week.  Jabil Circuit Inc. (JBL) , a supplier for Apple, plunged 13
percent to $18.72. The company  reported profit  excluding some
costs was 54 cents a share in the fourth quarter, trailing the
 analysts (SPLS) ’ average estimate by 4 cents, data compiled by
Bloomberg show, a sign that higher spending to manufacture
casings for Apple’s iPhone 5 is crimping margins.  NetApp Inc. (NTAP) , which Jabil counts among its  biggest
customers , erased 9.3 percent to $32.88.  Closing Stores  Staples Inc. slumped 6.8 percent to $11.52. Analysts at
Credit Suisse Group AG and Citigroup Inc. said the largest U.S.
office-supply chain’s plan to revive profits that included
closing 60 stores this year was not sufficient.  “While it would be unfair to characterize Staples’
announced moves this morning as simply moving deck chairs on the
Titanic, they were not as impactful or far reaching as we and
others were hoping,” Credit Suisse’s Gary Balter wrote in a
Sept. 25 note.  Accenture Plc (ACN) , the world’s second-largest technology
consulting company, rose 7.3 percent for the biggest gain in the
S&P 500 to  a record  $70.03 after forecasting full-year earnings
topping analysts’ estimates amid a gain in outsourcing bookings.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  rallied 4.5 percent to $22.15 for the
third-largest advance in the S&P 500. The world’s biggest maker
of thin-film panels may win a contract to supply NextEra Energy
Inc. for what would be the world’s biggest solar farm. NextEra
is considering thin-film cadmium telluride solar panels as one
possible technology for its 1,000-megawatt Blythe project in
southern  California , according to a document filed with the
California Energy Commission on Sept. 24.  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  jumped 1.6 percent to $60.37, the highest
level since April 2000. Shares of the largest U.S. home-
improvement retailer have surged 44 percent this year amid signs
of recovery in the U.S. housing market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  