-- Scene in NYC: Volcker, Son on Cerebral Palsy Research
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-09-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/scene-last-night-volcker-son-for-cerebral-palsy-reearch.html
“He couldn’t crawl,” said former
Fed chairman Paul Volcker of his son, James. He fought back
tears as he went on: “We wondered. We thought: What’s the
matter? And then we were told with no uncertainty he had
cerebral palsy.”  The occasion was a fundraiser Thursday night for the
 Cerebral Palsy International Research Foundation , filling the
 Pierre Hotel ’s ballroom and raising $1 million -- $400,000 above
the goal.  The organization, founded in 1955 and based in Princeton
Junction,  New Jersey , supports research to treat the
neurological disorder that affects human motor function. In the
U.S., 10,000 infants develop cerebral palsy annually and about
750,000 children and adults are living with the disorder.  Volcker, 85, chairman of the foundation, told a tale not
all parents can relate to. “My wife was determined to give him
as normal an environment as she could,” he said of his late
wife, Barbara. “She told the school, if they don’t accept a CP
boy, it isn’t good for the school or the boy or them. She won
and the school won and Jimmy won.”  James Volcker, 54, related his own anecdote about his
mother. At the supermarket, women would see him in the shopping
cart and tell her, “Don’t worry, the next one will be fine.”  Now he is a husband, father of a 14-year-old girl and grant
manager at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in  Boston . And Thursday
night, showing the early signs of a bald spot like his dad’s, he
presented him with an award.  ‘One Aspect’  “When I told my father I was going to do this, he had two
pieces of advice: Keep it short and don’t spill my guts,” James
Volcker said. “I want to thank my father for helping me
understand that cerebral palsy is just one aspect of my life.”  Guests in the room included comedian Josh Blue, who
performed, Bill Richards, a  UBS AG (UBSN)  managing director, and Bill Williams, a partner at JNK Securities Corp., with his wife,
Michele, who celebrated her birthday. They have a daughter,
Marissa Casciano Williams, 3, with cerebral palsy.  Several guests had  Paul Volcker  sign a copy of the new
biography of him by William Silber. “I didn’t write the book,”
Volcker said, “so forget about the content -- just look at the
picture.”  Women’s Advocate  Elsewhere Thursday night, the  Appeal of Conscience
Foundation  had an awards dinner at the Waldorf Astoria.  The introducers of the awards were the co-founders of the
private equity and advisory firm  Blackstone Group (BX) , which, by
coincidence -- or perhaps not? -- owns the Waldorf.  Blackstone Group co-founder  Peter G. Peterson  introduced
honoree Virginia Rometty, the  International Business Machines (IBM) 
Corp. chief executive and chairman-designate. He called her an
“advocate for women in business” and noted that they are both
graduates of  Northwestern University .  Rometty discussed IBM’s Corporate Service Corps, modeled on
the  Peace Corps , where IBM company employees volunteer in
 developing countries  to offer business expertise.  Blackstone Chairman and CEO Stephen A. Schwarzman
introduced honoree  Vikram Pandit , CEO of  Citigroup Inc. (C) , who
told a story about a prayer he made in Jerusalem almost two
years ago.  “This was still a time of recovery after the financial
crisis,” he said. “Like many visitors I went to the Western
Wall. I wrote my prayer on a piece of paper, folded it and
placed it between two of the stones. Now, I can’t tell you what
it said. But the next day the U.S. government decided to sell
its remaining stake in Citi stock.”  Brooklyn Nets  On the eve of the opening of the Barclays Center, home of
the Brooklyn Nets, Mikhail Prokhorov, the majority owner of the
Nets, was at the nearby Brooklyn Academy of Music soaking up
some culture.  Garth Fagan Dance was on the program of the Next Wave Gala,
as well as an announcement of a three-year series backed by the
 Mikhail Prokhorov  Fund. The theme of the programming is the
intersection of U.S. and Russian arts in the genres of film,
literature and performance.  Guests at BAM included Harvey M. Schwartz, named Sept. 18
to succeed David A. Viniar as the chief financial officer of
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , and actors  Patrick Stewart  and Anna
Kendrick.  Clinton Initiative  Looking back on the  Clinton Global Initiative , a highlight
was the Topic Dinner organized with Goldman Sachs around its
10,000 Women initiative. The five-year program is offering
business-skills training to 10,000 women in developing countries
by the end of 2013.  Kabeh Sumbo, who runs a palm-oil business in Liberia, is a
graduate of the program.  “It helped me understand to pay my taxes, that I have to
have insurance,” Sumbo said in a reception room at the Mandarin
Oriental Hotel on Sept. 23. “The money is not that much, but I
didn’t understand what it means. Now I am paying my taxes on
time.”  Sumbo’s business is growing, and her quality of life is
changing apace. “I used to eat only one meal a day, now I eat
two times a day. I have breakfast and dinner.”  She has built her “dream house,” made of concrete and
aluminum and featuring a bathtub. It is next to her old house,
made of wood and tin.  Her daughter is studying management so she can join her in
business, while she studies agriculture as she plans to start a
palm plantation. “I will not only be a seller, I will also be a
producer,” she said.  Doesn’t Spoil  She chose to go into oil because “it will not spoil like
other commodities,” so if she doesn’t sell it one day at the
market, she can sell it another.  John Rogers , chief of staff at Goldman and board chairman
of the Goldman Sachs Foundation, presided over the dinner.
Guests spotted included  Global Health Corps.  CEO  Barbara Bush ,
Christy Turlington Burns, founder of  Every Mother Counts , and
Debora Sparr, the president of Barnard College.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  Greg
Evans  on television.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 