-- LSE Tumbles Most in Three Years on EU Clearinghouse Rules
-- B y   A n d r e w   R u m m e r
-- 2012-09-28T16:03:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/lse-tumbles-most-in-three-years-on-eu-clearinghouse-rules.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
sank the most in three years after saying European Union
regulations will cut income at its Italian central counterparty
and may require LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. to boost capital.  Europe ’s oldest independent bourse tumbled 8 percent to 943
pence at the close in  London , the biggest retreat since April
2009. The decline trimmed this year’s gain to 19 percent.  Recommendations published yesterday by the European
Securities and Markets Authority proposed that 95 percent of a
clearinghouse’s cash deposits placed with financial institutions
must be collateralized with debt instruments meeting certain
conditions regarding liquidity as well as credit and market
risk, LSE said in a statement today. The rules, if implemented,
will cut treasury income in fiscal 2014 while having no
“material impact” in 2013 the London-based company said.  “This has the potential to significantly reduce the net
interest income that LSE generates from its Italian
clearinghouse,”  Chris Turner , an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in London, wrote in a report. He has a sell rating on the
stock. Such revenue accounted for 14 percent of group sales in
the six months ended March 2012, Victoria Brough, a spokeswoman
for LSE, wrote in e-mailed comments today.  LSE earns money from taking margin or deposits from traders
who use its Italian central counterparty, known as net interest
income. The exchange holds the deposits, pays the depositors
interest and receives an income by investing the funds for the
short-term in the Italian  interbank market .  Clearinghouse Capital  Members of clearinghouses, which act as central
counterparties in derivatives contracts to spread the risk of
default, will have to contribute a quarter of the institution’s
capital reserves, ESMA said yesterday.  LSE agreed to buy a majority stake in LCH.Clearnet,
Europe’s biggest clearinghouse, for 463 million euros ($599
million) in March to expand its post-trade services.
LCH.Clearnet said in a separate statement today that it will
need to boost capital by 300 million euros to 375 million euros
to comply with the new regulations.  “You have a business that you are buying, a business you
fought over on and now the business seems to need additional
capital,” Peter Lenardos, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
London, said in a phone interview today. “Hopefully they can go
back and renegotiate the deal.”  Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  is trying to diversify
LSE’s business away from traditional equities after losing
market share to alternative trading systems. LSE scrapped a bid
for TMX Group Inc., the operator of the Toronto stock exchange,
last year after failing to win support from the Canadian
company’s shareholders.  Rolet was awarded the maximum bonus of 1.52 million pounds
($2.47 million) last year for “excellent performance, resilient
leadership and the delivery of strong financial results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Rummer in London at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  