-- Serbia Commits to Inflation Targeting With Interest Rate
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-09-28T13:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/serb-central-bank-commits-to-cpi-targeting-with-interest-rates.html
Serbia’s central bank said it would
keep its inflation-targeting monetary-policy framework and use
the  one-week repurchase rate  as its key policy instrument in
steering inflation toward target levels in the medium term.  The main goal is to achieve targeted inflation in the
medium term, while the  interest rate  will be changed “in a
consistent and predictable manner, depending on economic
conditions and the inflation outlook,” the Narodna Banka Srbije
in the capital Belgrade said in its semi-annual Monetary Policy
Report.  The interest rate direction will depend on “the pace and
strength of fiscal consolidation, agreement with the
 International Monetary Fund  and food prices and their impact on
inflationary expectations,” the bank said in a report posted on
its website today.  The central bank has encouraged Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ,
whose Cabinet took office in July, to negotiate an agreement
with the IMF, which will convince investors in the government’s
deficit and debt-cutting plans and help gain access to cheaper
cash. The IMF wants to see how Serbia handles its  budget deficit 
and is seeking a restoration of the central bank’s autonomy
before it commits to a new program.  Inflation  Inflation will continue to rise through the end of the
first half of next year and return to within a “tolerance
band” by the end of 2013. The bank sees inflation between 9
percent and 10 percent by the end of this year. It accelerated
to 7.9 percent in August from a 30-year low of 2.7 percent in
April.  The central bank will target inflation at 4 percent plus or
minus 1.5 percentage points through 2014, with consumer prices
almost double the levels in developed economies because  Serbia 
will not “complete structural reforms or price stabilization,
or nominal, real and structural convergence with the European
Union,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  