-- Sony Said to Vote on Investment in Olympus as Early as Today
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-09-28T02:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/sony-said-to-vote-on-investment-in-olympus-as-early-as-today.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Olympus Corp. (7733)  may
announce a tie-up today, pending approval from their boards, in
a deal giving  Japan ’s biggest consumer-electronics exporter a
stake of about 10 percent in the endoscope maker, according to
two people with knowledge of the plan.  The companies will have  board  meetings today to discuss a
proposed alliance that includes a 50 billion-yen ($644 million)
investment by Sony in new shares of Olympus, the people said,
declining to be identified because the plan is private. Sony
will place one executive on Olympus’s board, and the two
companies will start a venture to develop endoscopes, they said.  The maker of Bravia TVs is seeking to expand in the medical
devices sector as Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai  seeks to
revive the company after four consecutive annual losses.
Olympus, which admitted to a 13-year accounting fraud last year,
has been trying to shore up its capital ratio as it recovers
from the scandal that led the company to restate earnings and
replace its entire board.  “There can be synergies between the two companies as
Sony’s image sensors can be used in endoscopes,” said  Yuji Fujimori , a Tokyo-based analyst at Barclays Plc. “Still, it may
take time for their businesses to bring results as medical
equipment usually needs regulatory approval before going on
sale.”  Restating Earnings  The Nikkei reported the news earlier today, saying Sony
will buy new Olympus shares at more than 1,400 yen by Dec. 31.
 George Boyd , a Sony spokesman, declined to comment. Olympus said
in a note to the stock exchange it wasn’t the source of the
report.  Sony declined 0.2 percent to 927 yen as of 11 a.m. in Tokyo
trading and is down 33 percent this year. Olympus advanced 1.3
percent to 1,514 yen, extending the gains this year to 50
percent.  Olympus, based in Tokyo, restated five years of earnings in
December and took a $1.3 billion cut in its net assets after
admitting it paid inflated fees on takeovers and overpaid for
three Japanese companies to conceal past investment losses.  The company wants to increase its capital ratio -- the
ratio of equity capital to total assets -- to more than 30
percent by March 2017 from 2.2 percent as of the end of June.
President Hiroyuki Sasa in June said a tie-up may help
accelerate growth in its camera and medical businesses.  Sony, the maker of PlayStation game consoles and Cyber-shot
cameras, wants to speed up a move into health equipment by using
the edge its image sensors have over rivals, Hirai said in
April. Sony’s medical business has the potential to be one of
the company’s main sources of profit in the future, he said.  Hirai’s Plans  Sony plans to generate 50 billion yen in annual sales from
equipment such as printers, monitors, cameras and recorders for
the medical industry in the year ending March 2015, he said at
that time.  The company last year acquired Micronics Inc., a Redmond,
Washington-based developer of devices used for disease
diagnosis, treatment monitoring and blood testing, for an
undisclosed amount. Sony may purchase more firms to expand in
life-science businesses, the company said in April.  Sony, which is cutting 10,000 jobs to return to profit, is
spending 80 billion yen to boost its production capacity of
complementary metal-oxide semiconductors, or CMOS, by one-third
for 2013. The sensors, used in consumer-electronics devices such
as smartphones and compact cameras, can also be used in medical
equipment such as endoscopes, the company said in January.  Olympus shares have more than tripled in the past 10
months. The stock collapsed since the board fired president
 Michael Woodford  on Oct. 14 after he questioned fees paid by the
company for takeovers.  Net assets of Olympus fell to 23 billion yen in the three
months ended June from 48 billion yen in the year ended March
31, the company said in August. The net loss widened to 4.5
billion yen in the three months ended June 30, compared with a
1.4 billion yen loss a year earlier.  Olympus is also cutting 2,700 jobs, or 7 percent of its
workforce, and on Aug. 24 said it agreed to sell its subsidiary
ITX Corp.’s telecommunication business for 53 billion yen to
boost capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in  Tokyo  at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  