-- South African Strikes Swell as Moody’s Cuts Country’s Rating
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-09-28T08:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/south-african-strikes-swell-as-moody-s-cuts-country-s-rating.html
The number of South African workers
on strike soared to about 140,000 this week as protests that
have halted 39 percent of the country’s gold production and led
to 46 deaths spread.  A “large majority” of the 35,000 workers at  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ’s operations in the biggest African producer of the
precious metal remain on an unofficial strike, Alan Fine, a
company spokesman, said by phone.  More than 20,000 workers at  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the
continent’s second-biggest producer, continued an illegal strike
today, Willie Jacobsz, a company spokesman, said in a phone
interview from Johannesburg. “There is an overall increase in
intimidation, violence and threats at the striking mine sites
over the past 48 hours.”  Gold Fields has no plans at this stage to negotiate with
the striking workers, Chief Executive Officer Nick Holland said
on Johannesburg-based SAFM radio yesterday.  “At some point we may decide to exercise our rights that
we have and proceed to dismissals, I don’t rule that out as an
option,” he said according to a transcipt of the interview.  Industrial action, which has spread across South Africa
since about 3,000 workers at the third-biggest platinum producer
 Lonmin Plc (LMI)  walked out Aug. 10, have closed mines in the country
that has the largest chrome and platinum reserves.  Moody’s Investors Service cited the government’s “reduced
capacity to handle the current political and economic
situation” when it cut South African government debt for the
first time since the end of apartheid yesterday.  About 60,000 workers employed by Road Freight Association
members are striking, Gavin Kelly, a spokesman for the industry
body, said in an e-mailed response to a query yesterday.  “Several mine vehicles have been damaged,” in violent
incidents at Gold Fields mines in the past two days, said
Jacobsz.  Workers are also striking at  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) ’s
Rustenburg operations. The world’s biggest producer of the metal
said it’s started disciplinary action against the strikers that
could lead to their dismissal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  