-- South Sudan Sees Increased Investment After Splitting Oil Block
-- B y   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-09-28T04:50:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/south-sudan-sees-increased-investment-after-splitting-oil-block.html
South  Sudan  expects to attract more
foreign investment into the newly independent country through
its break up of an oil concession the size of Rwanda, the
government’s spokesman said.  Block B, which covers most of South Sudan’s eastern Jonglei
state, was split into three blocks after  Total SA (FP) ’s ownership
was invalidated because it was signed with Sudan before the
south gained independence, Barnaba Marial Benjamin said in an
interview on Sept. 26 in the capital, Juba. Total, based in
Paris, previously held 32.5 percent of the block and will be
allowed to choose one of the new concessions, he said.  “The block was too big for one company,” Benjamin said.
“That block B is bigger than the whole of  Rwanda , so it was
divided up into different blocks so that you bring in more
investment, to make it a fair deal. Competitiveness is
important.”  Total signed an exploration and production-sharing
agreement with the government of Sudan in 1980, before
suspending exploration in 1985 because of “escalating
insecurity” related to a civil war in the country, according to
the company’s website. South Sudan seceded from Sudan in July
2011, taking control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s output
of 490,000 barrels of oil a day.  Total spokesman Florent Segura didn’t respond to an e-
mailed request for comment. A person who answered the phone at
the company’s headquarters yesterday said she would print out
the questions and pass them along to a spokesman to comment.  Monitoring Situation  Segura told Bloomberg on Feb. 2 that Total was “monitoring
the situation on a permanent basis in the Block B area to ensure
the safety of its personnel and contractors as soon as
operations resume.” Oil in South Sudan is pumped mainly by
China National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional
Bhd. and India’s  ONGC Videsh Ltd. (ONGC)   Chinese, European and U.S. companies, including  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , are among the bidders for exploration
rights, Benjamin said.  Jonglei has been plagued by ethnic violence, rebel militias
and deadly cattle raids. The United Nations says more than 1,000
people were killed in battles between the Murle and Lou Nuer
communities last year, while about 900 more were killed in
clashes that lasted from late December until February 2012. The
government said an Aug. 23 attack by a rebel militia group
killed at least 24 of its soldiers.  Oil Shutdown  With independence, South Sudan became one of the world’s
poorest countries, a situation that was exacerbated by its
decision to shut down oil production in late January amid a
dispute with Sudan over oil-transit and processing fees. South
Sudan has been trying to attract investors in oil and other
sectors to develop its economy.  Benjamin said his government has secured an interest-free
loan of about $150 million from  China  to build a new airport
terminal, and another of about $147 million to build power lines
from  Ethiopia  to Jonglei, Upper Nile, and Eastern and Central
Equatoria states. Chinese companies are constructing the power
grid, which he said would be completed within 1 1/2 years.  Benjamin added that China has pledged further loans of as
much as $200 million for projects including building new
universities and developing agriculture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jared Ferrie in Juba via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 