-- Southeast Asian Properties Are Attractive, Deutsche Bank Says
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-09-28T00:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/southeast-asian-properties-are-attractive-deutsche-bank-says.html
Properties in  Southeast Asian (MXSO) 
cities including Bangkok, Jakarta and Kuala Lumpur are
attractive for investors seeking to boost returns by holding
riskier assets,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s RREEF unit said.  Retail real estate, such as supermarkets,  convenience
stores , and logistics facilities, which include warehouses that
focus on e-commerce, offer opportunities, said Leslie Chua, the
head of research and strategy in the Asia-Pacific region at
RREEF Real Estate, a unit of Deutsche Asset Management ( Asia )
Ltd. Office markets in Sydney and Melbourne also are attractive
because of a lack of supply, he said.  RREEF, with 3.4 billion euros ($4.4 billion) in Asian
property assets, recommends investors diversify by boosting
alternative investments, including Asian real estate, to counter
declines in traditional assets, such as bonds and stocks. A
growing middle class and changing lifestyles in  Southeast Asia 
is attracting retailers as  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis and a
global economic slowdown curbs spending elsewhere.  “Investors are caught between a rock and a hard place,”
Chua said in an interview in Singapore. “They need to be risk
averse, but given the volatility in equities and bonds and the
types of returns they get, they have to go up the risk curve,
which typically means people will move to hard assets like real
estate.”  Prolonged Recovery  Southeast Asian governments have bolstered spending on
infrastructure and stepped up efforts to spur domestic
consumption in a bid to reduce their economies’ reliance on
exports. Indonesia’s government will increase  capital spending 
by 15 percent next year.  In Malaysia, Prime Minister Najib Razak in 2010 identified
$444 billion of private-sector led projects for the current
decade. Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  asked lawmakers last
month to approve a record 2 trillion-peso ($47 billion) budget
for 2013 as he increases spending on roads, hospitals and
schools.  “If it’s going to be a prolonged recovery in Europe and
the U.S., we need to look for markets that can compensate for
that,” Chua said. “Clearly Asia offers that. Indonesia,
Malaysia and  Thailand  have got their ship in order and
transparency has improved in these markets.”  The asset manager is “cautiously optimistic” on the
Singapore office market. It said it doesn’t expect a fully-
fledged correction in rents because supply of new office space
remains limited.  Attractive Yield  Singapore office rents may fall as much as 6 percent this
year, less than an earlier estimate of as much as 15 percent,
Sigrid Zialcita, managing director for Asia-Pacific region at
Cushman & Wakefield Inc., said on June 29.  The yield spreads between real estate assets and government
bonds are attractive, Chua said. The spread for office markets
may range from 200 basis points to 300 basis points above
sovereign debt for Singapore office markets. Retail spreads
range between 200 basis points and 400 basis points while the
industrial sector is slightly higher from 250 basis points to
400 basis points, he said.  “Given where sovereign bond yields are right now, there is
a very handsome spread,” Chua said. “Low borrowing costs and
stable yields make for a very good form of alternate
investment.” Borrowing costs will remain low, he added.  Five Asian economies -- Indonesia, Thailand,  Philippines ,
Malaysia and  Vietnam  -- along with China and India will outpace
the rest of the world over the next two years, according to the
 International Monetary Fund  in a July 16 report. In 2013, the
five countries will grow 6.1 percent, compared with 2.3 percent
in the U.S., 0.7 percent in the euro area and 1.5 percent in
 Japan , it said.  “We are asking investors to seriously look at Southeast
Asia; it’s a market that’s been often ignored largely because of
a lack of transparency,” Chua said. “For a typical investor
who is new to this part of the world and who wants to get their
feet wet, then Australia, Singapore and Japan are a natural
choice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  