-- South African August Trade Deficit Widens to Seven-Month High
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-09-28T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/south-african-august-trade-deficit-widens-to-seven-month-high.html
South Africa posted its biggest
trade deficit in seven months in August as exports of mineral
products such as coal and iron ore slumped.  The  shortfall  reached 12.2 billion rand ($1.5 billion)
compared with 6.7 billion rand in July, the Pretoria-based South
African Revenue Service said in an e-mailed statement today. The
 median estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of seven economists was
for a 6.9 billion-rand gap.  A debt crisis in  Europe  is cutting export demand from a
region that buys about a third of South Africa’s manufactured
goods, widening the trade gap. South Africa posted its biggest
 current account  deficit in almost four years in the second
quarter, adding to pressure on the rand, which has slumped 7.1
percent against the dollar in the past six months.  The trade shortfall was surged more than eightfold to 69.9
billion rand in the first seven months of the year compared with
the same period in 2011, the revenue service said.  Exports fell 3.3 percent to 61.4 billion rand in August
from the previous month, led by a 17 percent decrease in mineral
product shipments, the revenue service said. Coal exports from
South Africa’s Richards Bay port dropped 16 percent in August
from a year ago, the Richards Bay Coal Terminal said on Sept. 5.  Imports advanced 4.9 percent to 73.6 billion rand as
mineral product shipments, which include oil, rose 24 percent
and chemical purchases jumped 11 percent.  The  current-account gap  widened to 6.4 percent of gross
domestic product in the second quarter, the central bank said on
Sept. 11. South Africa relies on foreign investment in stocks
and bonds to finance the deficit, inflows that have fluctuated
this year as slower economic growth led investors to sell
riskier emerging-market assets.  The monthly trade figures are often volatile, reflecting
the timing of shipments of commodities such as oil and diamonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  