-- Spain in Position to Seek Aid as Tensions Lower, Campa Says
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-09-28T14:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/spain-in-position-to-seek-aid-as-tensions-lower-campa-says.html
Spain  is in a better position to
negotiate a full bailout in a period of lower tension on
financial markets such as the current one, former Deputy Finance
Minister Jose Manuel Campa said.  “The government will be in a better position to request a
program in a moment of non stress like now than in a moment of
stress,” Campa said in an interview with Bloomberg Television
at the Madrid IESE Business school, his first since resuming a
professorship after the end of his mandate with Jose Luis Zapatero’s socialist government in December.  “This is like an insurance, you don’t buy it once you have
a trauma, you buy it before,” he said.  After months of clamoring for European aid to lower Spain’s
 unsustainable  borrowing costs, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has
yet to make a decision even after the  European Central Bank  this
month agreed to buy sovereign bonds. He has called for more
details on the conditions to be attached to a bailout.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond were little
changed basis points to 5.947 percent at 4:21 p.m. in the
Spanish capital, compared with a record of 7.75 percent on July
25, a day after Rajoy clinched as much as 100 billion euros
($129 billion) in loans for the banking sector. The spread with
similar German maturities was at 4.52 percentage points.  Aid Details  “The government is reluctant to make that decision without
having full guarantees that it would have a very positive impact
in economic terms that is worthwhile,” Campa said, pointing to
the fall of political leaders in  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal 
after they requested bailouts.  European authorities should provide “at least some kind of
guidance” on the aid that will be provided, Campa said. “Does
it mean that the cost of financing the sovereign will drop to
the same as for  Germany , or twice or once and a half? That’s a
relevant question.”  Campa said the government is taking the right steps to
overhaul the euro area’s fourth-largest economy and shrink its
third-biggest  budget deficit , and that these steps should help
Spain in its negotiations.  “Since we’re taking these measures that we’re already
convinced are good for us, then if we get to that situation,
then all this debate about being intervened, conditionality,
being directed by the troika becomes meaningless,” he said,
refering to the group of monitors from the European Commission,
the ECB and the  International Monetary Fund .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  