-- Spain’s Ad Market Faces Prolonged Slump, Prisa Predicts
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-09-28T16:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/spain-s-ad-market-faces-prolonged-slump-prisa-says.html
Promotora de Informaciones SA ,
publisher of the newspaper El Pais, dropped to the lowest level
in six weeks in  Madrid  after saying  Spain ’s advertising market
will shrink more amid low consumption and high unemployment.  Prisa, as the company is known, fell 2.6 percent to 37.5
euro cents, the lowest price since Aug. 15. That valued the
Madrid-based company at 398 million euros ($513 million).  “There’s no visibility at all in the advertising market,”
Chairman Juan Luis Cebrian said in an interview this week.
“Online ad revenues are climbing a lot, more than 20 percent,
but that’s yet not enough to compensate the overall decline.”  Shares of Prisa have fallen 57 percent this year and are
headed for their third consecutive annual decline as newspapers
grapple with the loss of readers and advertisers. Spanish Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government announced yesterday its
fifth austerity package in what may be a move to head off
tougher conditions demanded as part of a potential European
bailout.  The advertising market in Spain has dropped by about 15 to
20 percent this year and estimates for the fourth quarter
indicate it will continue to fall, said Eduardo Madinaveitia, a
director for media research at Zenith Media in Madrid.  ‘Bleak’ Outlook  “The outlook is really bleak,” Madinaveitia said. “As
Spain continues to suffer from spending cuts and tax increases,
consumption will suffer and advertisers won’t be willing to
boost investments.”  Spain’s biggest media company will rely on its textbook-
publishing unit Santillana and the pay-TV business, along with
its exposure to  Latin America , to buffer the impact from lower
ad sales, Cebrian, 67, said.  Advertising sales from Spain and  Portugal  fell 16 percent
in the first six months to 221 million euros, accounting for 78
percent of Prisa’s total ad revenue. Advertising made up 22
percent of Prisa’s operating revenue in the period.  In July, Prisa’s board named Cebrian executive chairman.
Ignacio Polanco, whose late father Jesus de Polanco built Prisa
around El Pais, became honorary chairman. Fernando Abril- Martorell was named chief executive officer.  In November, Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim  bought a 3.2
percent stake in Prisa, expanding his media holdings that also
included a stake in  New York Times Co. (NYT)   Digital Plus  While the debt crisis is also hurting Prisa’s pay-TV unit
Digital Plus, customer gains at the business beat “historic
record levels” at the end of August and beginning of September,
Cebrian said. It’s also kept the average revenue per user
“stable or even growing,” after the government’s increase in
value-added tax this month, he said.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s biggest phone company, and
commercial television station  Mediaset Espana (TL5)  Comunicacion SA,
each hold a 22 percent stake in Digital Plus. Telefonica said in
June it planned to buy 100 million euros of two-year mandatory
convertible bonds issued by Prisa .  Cebrian ruled out an imminent sale of Prisa’s 17.3 percent
stake in Spanish commercial television station Mediaset Espana
as the shares are “unfairly punished.”  “It’s obviously not a strategic asset for us,” he said.
“However, Mediaset Espana is worth more than the actual share
price and when you sell an asset it needs to add some real
value.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  