-- Spain Bonds Have Weekly Drop Amid Aid-Request Speculation
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-09-28T17:24:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/spanish-10-year-bonds-erase-drop-on-bailout-request-speculation.html
Spain’s 10-year bonds had a weekly
decline as the nation held off from seeking a bailout that would
enable the European Central Bank to buy its debt.  The securities erased an intra-day decline, and the market
closed before stress tests conducted by management consultants
Oliver Wyman showed Spain’s banks have a combined capital
shortfall of 59.3 billion euros ($76.3 billion). German bunds
extended their longest run of quarterly gains since 1998 even as
a report showed euro-area inflation accelerated in September.
French bonds rose for the first week since August as President
Francois Hollande’s government delivered its budget.  “People are closing the week thinking there will be a
request for aid over the weekend,” said  Luca Cazzulani , a
senior fixed-income strategist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Milan. “That
time-frame seems too quick for me and I think the rumors are
unsubstantiated.”  Spain’s  10-year yield  ended the day little changed at 5.94
percent. It earlier rose as much as 12 basis points, or 0.12
percentage point, to 6.06 percent. The price of the 5.85 percent
security maturing in January 2022 was at 99.83. The yield rose
18 basis points in the week, the biggest increase since Aug. 31.
The two-year rate rose seven basis points to 3.43 percent,
extending the weekly increase to 30 basis points.  Spanish Banks  The Bankia group, a nationalized lender, had a 24.7
billion-euro capital deficit in the Oliver Wyman tests.  Banco
Popular Espanol SA (POP)  had a 3.22 billion-euro shortfall. Of 14
lenders showed, seven banks had no capital deficit. Spain
commissioned the study as part of the conditions agreed in July
for a European bailout of as much as 100 billion euros for its
banking system.  The front German bund futures contract slipped 0.1 percent
after the results of the stress test to 141.43. They earlier
climbed to as high as 141.95.  Moody’s Investors Service said on Aug. 30 that it would
probably extend its review of Spain’s credit rating, which
started June 13, through the end of this month.  ECB President Mario Draghi unveiled details of the central
bank’s asset-purchase plan on Sept. 6, saying activation was
dependent on countries asking for help. The ECB will target
government bonds with maturities of one to three years,
including longer-dated debt that has a residual maturity of that
length, Draghi said.  Spain’s government won’t decide whether to request aid
until it has all the relevant information available and has had
time to study it, Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said
yesterday.  Cat, Mouse  “Spain has been playing cat and mouse with the ECB, saying
they may not need to apply for aid.,” said  Marc Ostwald , a
fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London.  Without an application for aid, 10-year Spanish yields will
rise toward 6.5 percent, Ostwald said.  Consumer prices  in the 17-nation euro region increased 2.7
percent from a year earlier after a 2.6 percent gain in August,
the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said in an
estimate today. The median forecast of 40 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for the rate to fall to 2.4 percent.  Germany ’s 10-year yield declined two basis points to 1.44
percent, after touching 1.42 percent, the lowest since Sept. 5.
The yield dropped seven basis points since the end of June,
having fallen in each of the past  six quarters .  France ’s 10-year yields slid three basis points to 2.18
percent, down 10 basis points this week.  Hollande’s first budget was centered on tax increases aimed
at raising 20 billion euros, including a 75 percent levy on
incomes over 1 million euros. The premier aims to reduce the
deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product from 4.5 percent
in 2012. The budget predicts growth of 0.8 percent.  German bonds have returned 1.1 percent in the past three
months through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Spanish securities rose 4.2 percent, while French
debt earned 3.5 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Goodman in  London  at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  