-- Starbucks to Open First India Store as U.S., Europe Slow
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-09-28T08:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/starbucks-to-open-first-india-store-as-u-s-europe-slow.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  set the opening
date of its first  India  store with partner Tata Global Beverages
Ltd. for next month, later than a previous target of August, as
the world’s biggest coffee chain expands overseas.  Tata Global rose to a record in Mumbai trading, jumping by
the most in eight months. The Indian company’s Seattle-based
partner will also open a second shop early next year, 
 John Culver , president of Starbucks’s Asia-Pacific business
told reporters in Mumbai today.  Starbucks enters the world’s second-most populous nation as
a recession in  Europe  and slowing growth in the U.S. have damped
growth. In India, the coffee chain faces competition from
Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. stores,  Lavazza SpA’s (DNKN)  Barista Coffee
Co. and Cafe Coffee Day, run by Amalgamated Bean Coffee Trading
Co.  “We are looking at this venture from a long-term point of
view,” said Culver. “We will open a series of stores and
monitor consumer response and focus on the experience we
provide.”  Tata Global gained 7.3 percent to 141.30 rupees as of 1:52
p.m. in Mumbai trading, a record high on a closing basis.
Starbucks shares climbed 1.9 percent to $51.04 in  New York  on
Sept. 27.  Starbucks cuts its fourth-quarter profit forecast in July,
citing the recession in European markets and slowing sales
growth in the U.S. It has already hired 60 employees in India.  U.S. Slump  U.S. consumer sentiment unexpectedly declined in July to
the lowest level this year as Americans grew more concerned
about their finances.  The Tata Starbucks Ltd. venture named Avani Saglani Davda,
a 10-year veteran of Tata companies, as chief executive officer
today, the company said in a statement.  Starbucks on Jan. 30 announced an equal joint venture with
Tata Global Beverages, and said it plans to open as many as 50
stores in Mumbai and New Delhi in its first year. The venture
will open its first store in August and have 50 outlets in
Mumbai and  New Delhi  by the end of the first 12 months, Tata
Global Vice Chairman R.K. Krishna Kumar said at the time.  Starbucks  said  in July that it will open as many as 500 new
stores in the Asia-Pacific region this year, more than half of
which will be in  China .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  