-- Suntech Gets Local Government Support After New York Warning
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-09-28T10:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/suntech-gets-local-government-support-after-new-york-warning.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
biggest solar panel maker, got an offer of support from the
regional government in the Chinese city it’s based in after
receiving a delisting warning from the  New York  Stock Exchange.  The eastern city of Wuxi set up a  task force  led by Mayor
Zhu Kejiang to help Suntech, the government said today in an e-
mailed statement. The city will hold talks to ensure banks
optimize credit support and provide financial services to
Suntech.  The average closing price of Suntech’s American depositary
receipts was below $1 for 30 consecutive days as of Sept. 10,
triggering a delisting warning, the Wuxi, Jiangsu-based company
said Sept. 21.  The company secured 200 million  yuan  ($32 million) from
 Bank of China Ltd. , China Business News reported, citing
unidentified people. Suntech may also receive syndicated loans
from banks including  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. ,
 Bank of China , Agricultural Bank of China, China Construction
Bank Corp. and  China Development Bank  Corp., according to the
report.  Rory Macpherson, a spokesman for Suntech, didn’t reply to
an e-mail seeking comment.  The bailout is the second from a Chinese local government
to a non-state solar company and underscores the challenges
facing the industry as companies struggle to cope with an
oversupply that’s depressed prices and trimmed profit margins.
The Xinyu government said in July it would pay a portion of the
debts of LDK Solar Co., the second-biggest solar-wafer maker.  The regional government in Wuxi, along with financial
institutions, is studying further measures to develop the
photovoltaic industry and will “actively and firmly” help
Suntech, it said in the statement.  China Development Bank, a state-owned lender, is preparing
to recommend stronger financial support for Suntech,  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL)  and Yingli Solar Co., the official China Securities Journal
reported on Sept. 25, citing an unidentified person. Trina is
also based in Jiangsu, the biggest Chinese province by
photovoltaic exports.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  