-- Support Slips for More Rules as Gas-Frackers Campaign
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-09-28T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/support-slips-for-more-rules-as-gas-frackers-campaign.html
Public support has cooled for
stricter environmental regulation of hydraulic fracturing for
natural gas, a drilling method that has lowered U.S. energy
prices while raising concerns over its impact on drinking water.  Fifty-six percent of Americans said there needs to be more
regulation of the technique, also called fracking, according to
a Bloomberg National Poll conducted Sept. 21-24, down from 65
percent in March. The share of respondents calling for less
regulation of fracking rose to 29 percent, from 18 percent in
March.  Gas prices  have dropped 76 percent since July 2008 as
producers use fracking, in which chemically treated water and
sand are forced underground to break up rock and free gas
trapped in tight layers of shale. In his Jan. 24 State of the
Union address, President  Barack Obama  said fracking could
support more than 600,000 jobs by the end of the decade.  As more people realize the benefits of gas production “the
more public support we’ll continue to see for this truly
historic opportunity,” Kathryn Klaber, president of the
Marcellus Shale Coalition, a Pittsburgh-based industry group,
said in an e-mail.  Companies and industry groups, such as America’s Natural
Gas Alliance in  Washington , have sponsored advertisements that
stress measures to protect the environment during drilling.  ‘Tobacco Style’  “The oil and gas industry have been blanketing the
airwaves with ads that tout gas as our savior,”  Kate Sinding , a
senior attorney with the  Natural Resources Defense Council  in
New York, said in an e-mail. “They’re using Big-Tobacco style
smoke and mirrors messaging to deflect genuine concerns about
the health threats.”  Supporters of Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney 
reported having greater faith in existing drilling rules, with
only 32 percent calling for more regulation compared with 76
percent of Obama supporters. Among those who make less than
$50,000 a year, 62 percent favor greater regulation compared to
53 percent of those earning $100,000 or more.  Because of fracking, the U.S. is producing a glut of gas
after warning four years ago of a need to boost imports. Owners
of liquefied natural gas import terminals have proposed exports,
and in April,  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG)  won federal approval to build
the largest U.S. natural-gas export terminal.  Gas from shale, fine-grained sedimentary rocks that trap
the fuel, made up 23 percent of U.S. production in 2010, and is
forecast to rise to 49 percent by 2035, according to the Energy
Department.  Regional Views  Fracking has been used in places such as Texas and Oklahoma
since 1949 and is largely regulated by the states. In
 Pennsylvania ,  Ohio  and  West Virginia , drillers are tapping the
Marcellus Shale formation, which may be the largest U.S. gas
field.  In the northeast, where drilling has boomed in
Pennsylvania’s portion of the Marcellus, 69 percent favor more
regulation compared with 55 percent in the west.  “Those numbers still show there’s a majority of people who
want action, and in fact, I’d argue there seems to be growing
concern in the specific communities that are currently being
threatened by fracking,” Sinding said.  The boom has also produced failures that have prompted
states to review standards. In Pennsylvania, rules were beefed
up after regulators found that gas from wells operated by
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  had seeped into drinking water supplies
in 2010. In his  State of the Union  address, Obama said his
administration would “take every possible action” to see that
fracking is done without putting the public’s health or safety
at risk.  Federal Rules  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is studying the
potential impacts of fracking on ground water. In April, the
agency issued rules that will require gas drillers to capture
smog-forming compounds and other substances that are now often
released into the air or flared off when a well is first tapped.
Weeks later, the Interior Department said drillers won’t be
forced to disclose chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing until
work is completed.  The Bloomberg poll of 1,007 adults was conducted by Selzer
& Co., a  Des Moines , Iowa-based firm. It has a margin of error
of plus or minus 3.1 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  