-- Suzlon Sues Edison Unit Over Payment for Turbines to Big Sky
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-09-28T08:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/suzlon-sues-edison-unit-over-payment-for-turbines-to-big-sky.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the Indian
wind-turbine maker seeking an extension on debt repayments, has
filed a lawsuit against a unit of  Edison International (EIX)  claiming
its improperly refusing to make a pre-payment for turbines
supplied to a U.S. wind farm.  Big Sky, a unit of Edison Mission Group, claims defects in
some components don’t require it to make the payment, according
to Suzlon’s complaint, filed Sept. 14 in New York Supreme Court.
Suzlon, based in the western Indian city of Pune, is the second-
biggest wind-turbine maker in the world by sales.  “Big Sky’s unwillingness to make the mandatory prepayment
on the mandatory prepayment date is motivated by not only the
challenge faced by Big Sky in selling power in a sluggish
renewable energy market, but also by reason of the precarious
financial situation of Edison” which has said its unit may have
to file for bankruptcy, Suzlon said in the complaint.  Douglas McFarlan, a spokesman at Edison didn’t respond to
an e-mail and a voice mail left at his office number in Chicago
after hours. A call to Edison’s 24-hour international media hot
line was answered by an operator.  Edison Mission’s Big Sky wind farm in Illinois bought 114
Suzlon turbines in October 2009. The deal was financed with a
$206 million loan from Suzlon which has since increased with
interest to $217 million, according to Suzlon’s complaint.  Suzlon, which has posted losses for three years, said Sept.
18 it has asked bondholders for a four-month extension on
redemption of $220.8 million of convertible notes due Oct. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  