-- Swedish Libor Scrapping Will Have Limited Effect, Regulator Says
-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-09-28T11:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/swedish-libor-scrapping-will-have-limited-effect-regulator-says.html
U.K. plans to scrap Libor contracts
tied to Swedish kronor will have a limited effect on the
markets, according to  Sweden ’s financial supervisor.  “We looked at the issue and have been in touch with
participants in Sweden. Our overall assessment is that the
impact will be rather marginal,” Uldis Cerps, head of the
Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s banking unit, said in
a phone interview today. “We’ve made a qualitative estimate and
have come to the conclusion that as far as the Swedish banks are
concerned, the volumes of contracts that are based on Libor in
SEK are relatively modest and that the situation is also
mitigated by the suggested transition period.”  The U.K. Financial Supervisory Authority today proposed new
rules governing the London interbank offered rate after Barclays
Plc, Britain’s second-biggest lender, paid a record-fine in June
for manipulating the rate. The proposal included scrapping Libor
reference rates for Swedish kronor, as well as for Australian,
Canadian and New Zealand dollars and Danish kroner.  The  Stockholm  interbank offered rate doesn’t have “problems
of the same dignity we have seen in some other indexes because
it’s calculated on the prices at which banks are ready to lend
to other banks,” Cerps said.  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily by Thomson
Reuters Corp. on behalf of the BBA, a banking industry lobby
group that asks firms to estimate how much it would cost to
borrow from each other for different periods and in different
currencies. At least a dozen banks are being probed by
regulators worldwide over allegations they colluded to
manipulate the benchmark to profit from bets on derivatives.  “We and the Swedish central bank, the Riksbank, are in
talks with the Swedish Bankers’ Association among others about
how and to what extent we need improvements in the calculations
of Stibor and of course the Libor recommendations will be
important input in our own discussions,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  