-- U.K. Lawmakers Seek Speedy Overhaul of Libor Following Review
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-09-28T14:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/u-k-lawmakers-seek-speedy-overhaul-of-libor-following-review.html
Proposals to overhaul Libor,
including enhanced powers for U.K. regulators to prosecute rate
rigging, may be enacted early next year in a bid to revive
confidence in the scandal-ridden benchmark and banking industry.  Financial Services Authority Managing Director Martin Wheatley’s “appropriate and credible” recommendations will be
placed into legislation that should be approved early next year,
Greg Clark, financial secretary to the U.K. Treasury, said in a
telephone interview in London today. Wheatley proposed stripping
the British Bankers’ Association of responsibility for the rate
and adopting criminal penalties for interest-rate manipulation.  Wheatley began the review after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  paid a record
290 million-pound ($470 million) fine in June for manipulating
the London interbank offered rate, used to set rates for more
than $300 trillion of securities. At least a dozen banks are
being probed worldwide over allegations they colluded to
manipulate the benchmark to profit from bets on derivatives.  The review “could mark at least the end of the beginning
of the clean-up operation,” Andrew Tyrie, chairman of a
lawmaker panel on finance, said in an e-mailed statement. The
reforms could help restore “trust, both in Libor and in
banking.”  Wheatley said some measures, including a tender for groups
to bid to manage Libor and the phasing out of some currencies
and maturities from the benchmark, will begin immediately.  Governance Failed  “Governance of Libor has completely failed,” Wheatley
said as he unveiled the report on the future of Libor in  London 
today. “This problem has been exacerbated by a lack of
regulation and a comprehensive mechanism to punish those who
manipulate the system.”  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily by Thomson
Reuters Corp. on behalf of the BBA, a banking industry lobby
group, that asks firms to estimate how much it would cost to
borrow from each other for different periods and in different
currencies. The top and bottom quartiles of quotes are excluded,
and those left are averaged and published for individual
currencies before noon in London.  Libor is the biggest of a series of scandals to hit
London’s financial industry, denting public trust in the
industry.  Kweku Adoboli, a former  UBS AG (UBSN)  trader, went on trial this
month for allegedly causing a $2.3 billion unauthorized trading
loss. Standard Chartered Plc paid $340 million last month to
settle allegations by New York’s banking regulator that it
laundered $250 billion for  Iran  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  is also
being probed over handling cash for sanctioned nations.  The FSA should receive greater powers to vet bankers who
contribute to Libor, said Wheatley, who will become the chief
executive officer of the Financial Conduct Authority, when the
FSA splits into two agencies next year.  Rebuilding Confidence  “With Libor being such an intrinsic part of the financial
system, restoring trust in it is an important step towards the
broader task of rebuilding confidence in banking,”  Matthew Fell , director for competitive markets at the Confederation of
British Industry, said in an e-mail. “Bringing Libor under an
independent regulator will take away the notion that this was a
system run by banks for the benefit of banks.”  Wheatley stopped short of advocating scrapping Libor,
saying that would be too disruptive to borrowers whose existing
contracts reference the rate.  “Repealing Libor was just not an option,” said  Simon Maughan , a banking analyst at Olivetree Securities Ltd. in
London. “He’s done the right thing here,” he said. “Improve
it, make it based on real transaction costs, get rid of some of
the currencies, that seems like a sensible approach.”  More Quotes  The FSA will encourage more banks to submit quotes as part
of the revamp, Wheatley said, and could force uncooperative
banks to submit quotes with its new powers.  The number of Libor reference rates should be cut to 20
from 150 within a year by phasing out currencies and maturities
in which trading is thin, Wheatley said. Publication of Libor
for Australian, Canadian and New Zealand dollars, as well as the
Danish Kroner and Swedish Kronor should be ended, he said.  Four-month, five-month, seven-month, eight-month, 10-month
and 11-month rates should be axed, while eliminating one week,
two-week, two-month and nine-month tenors should also be
considered, according to the proposals.  Data Points  Banks will also have to follow a code of conduct governing
how they make daily submissions. Rate-setters will have to base
inputs on a hierarchy of data points, starting with actual
transactions in the unsecured inter-bank deposit market,
Wheatley said. Where none exist, banks should then consider any
borrowings in other instruments including commercial paper,
repurchase agreements and overnight-index swaps.  Wheatley also proposed banks wait three months before
disclosing publicly their own Libor submissions. To rectify the
“reduction in immediate transparency” he recommended lenders
publish a regular bulletin that includes trading volumes.  The tender process to take responsibility for setting Libor
will start next week and be run by an independent committee led
by Sarah Hogg, the chairwoman of the Financial Reporting
Council. Wheatley said the bidding should take about three
months.  The BBA’s role as guardian of Libor has been under pressure
since the  Bank for International Settlements  first raised
concern in 2008 that the benchmark was being manipulated.  Untenable BBA  “Many respondents thought that the current position of the
BBA is untenable due to its loss of credibility from past
involvement in Libor and its vested interest in defending the
banks,” the report said. “The BBA acts as the lobby
organisation for the same submitting banks that they nominally
oversee, creating a conflict of interest that precludes strong
and credible governance.”  Other benchmarks, such as for the prices of agricultural
products, oil and precious metals, and in the equity, bond and
money markets, should be looked at as well, Wheatley said.  The European Union, which is conducting its own review of
interest-rate benchmarks, including Euribor, said that any
solution must apply across a wide range of markets.  “Concerns about benchmarks are not limited to interest
rate benchmarks, but extend to all kinds of benchmarks,
including commodity and benchmarks for other markets,” the EU
said in a statement.  Dan Doctoroff, CEO of Bloomberg LP, has proposed an
alternative to Libor dubbed the Bloomberg Interbank Offered
Rate, or Blibor. It would use data from a variety of financial
transactions to better reflect participating banks’ real cost of
credit. Bloomberg LP is the parent of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net 
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  