-- U.K. Labour Chief Attacked by Conservatives on Eve of Convention
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-09-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/u-k-labour-chief-attacked-by-conservatives-on-eve-of-convention.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron’s
Conservatives mounted an attack on Labour leader Ed Miliband on
the eve of the opposition party’s annual conference.  As Labour activists prepare to meet in Manchester, northern
 England , the Conservatives published private polling they said
showed voters did not think Miliband was qualified to lead the
nation.  Seventy-three percent of voters said Miliband “doesn’t
have what it takes to be prime minister” and 67 percent said
Labour should have chosen his brother, David, to lead the party,
the Conservatives said in an e-mailed statement.  The party cited an online survey of 2,061 adults carried
out between Sept. 26 and Sept. 28 by Populus Ltd., the polling
company co-founded by Andrew Cooper, Cameron’s director of
strategy. The party did not publish the full dataset for the
poll.  The Labour conference, under the slogan “rebuilding
Britain,” will seek to develop its claim that Cameron’s
coalition government serves the needs of the richest at the
expense of the poor.  “Labour will be addressing head-on the struggles facing
millions of families and the challenge of rebuilding Britain’s
economy so it works for working people -- not just a few at the
top,” the party said in a briefing note. The conference will
reflect Miliband’s “determination that the party should be
open, inclusive and rooted in real lives,” the party said.  Caroline Flint, Labour’s climate-change spokeswoman, will
launch a program sponsored by the party to help people get
cheaper electricity by using their combined purchasing power.  Fairer Deal  “By harnessing the power of our grassroots network and
Labour councils, we can be a vehicle for people coming together
to negotiate a fairer deal with the energy companies,” Flint
said in a statement.  The Conservatives are trailing in the polls, with 32 
percent support compared with 41 percent for Labour, according 
to a YouGov Plc poll published in the Sun newspaper on Sept. 
27. The online survey of 1,760 adults, which was carried out 
on Sept. 25 and Sept. 26, gave 9 percent to the Liberal 
Democrats, the Conservatives' coalition partners. No margin of 
error was provided.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in Brasilia at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  