-- U.K. Services Grow Fastest in 14 Months on Olympics, Auto Sales
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-09-28T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/u-k-services-grow-fastest-in-14-months-on-olympics-auto-sales.html
Britain’s services expanded at
their fastest pace for more than a year in July, adding to
evidence that the economy returned to growth in the third
quarter.  Services, which account for about three quarters of the
economy, rose 1.1 from June, when the sector fell 1.5 percent,
the Office for National Statistics said in London today. It was
the biggest increase since May 2011.  The figures show the industry rebounded after activity was
hampered in June by an extra public holiday for the Queen’s
Diamond Jubilee. Output rose across the sector, with a jump in
auto sales driving a 1.8 percent gain in distribution, hotels
and restaurants. There was also a boost from Olympic ticket
sales.  “This will leave the level of activity back to roughly
where it was in May, suggesting pretty much no underlying growth
in the service sector,” Phil Rush, an economist at Nomura
International Plc in London, said before the data was released.  The figures come after data yesterday showed the economy
shrank less than previously thought in the second quarter and
personal incomes rose at the fastest pace for three years.  Olympic ticket sales boosted the arts and recreation
sector, which gained 3.7 percent from June, the statistics
office said.  In a separate release today, the statistics office said
output per worker fell 1.3 percent in the second quarter from
the first. Unit wage costs, or the amount spent on wages and
salaries to produce each unit of output, rose 2 percent. Market
sector productivity fell 1.5 percent to its lowest level since
2005.  The ONS also said Northern Rock Asset Management and
Bradford and Bingley PLC had been reclassified as central
government bodies, as of January and July 2010 respectively. The
change has increased U.K. general gross government debt and
lowered the deficit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  