-- U.K. AAA Rating Now Faces Greater Downgrade Risk, Fitch Says
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2012-09-28T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/u-k-aaa-rating-now-faces-greater-risk-of-downgrade-fitch-says.html
The U.K. faces an increased risk of
a downgrade to its top  credit rating  after  Fitch Ratings  said
that government debt will peak at a higher level and later than
it previously predicted.  Fitch affirmed Britain’s AAA level and kept the nation on
negative outlook, according to a statement released late
yesterday in  London . The ratings company said it doesn’t expect
to resolve the question mark hanging over the top grade until
2014.  “The negative outlook on the U.K. rating reflects the very
limited fiscal space, at the ‘AAA’ level, to absorb further
adverse economic shocks in light of the U.K.’s elevated debt
levels and  uncertain growth outlook ,” Fitch said in the
statement. “Weaker than expected growth and fiscal outturns in
2012 have increased pressure on the U.K.’s AAA rating.”  The assessment came a week after Britain posted its biggest
August budget deficit on record and adds pressure on Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  as the economy struggles to
recover from three quarters of contraction. Fitch cut its
forecast for economic growth this year to show it will shrink
0.3 percent instead of expanding by 0.8 percent.  ``They are reaffirming our AAA rating," Steve Field, 
Prime MinisterDavid Cameron's spokesman, said in an interview 
in Brasilia where the premier is visiting. "That reconfirms our 
commitment to tackle the deficit."  The pound slid 0.5 percent to $1.6157 yesterday in London.
Fitch, Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  all give
the U.K. their top grade, though only S&P assesses the
country’s credit rating as stable.  Osborne’s Target  Fitch said Osborne is set to miss his target of starting to
bring down net debt in the 2015-16 fiscal year. Instead, it will
peak at 80 percent of gross domestic product in that year before
showing a decline in the following year. In the March budget,
the  Office for Budget Responsibility  predicted debt would peak
at 76.3 percent of GDP in 2014-15.  General government gross debt will peak at 97 percent of
GDP in 2015-16, up from a previous estimate of 94 percent, Fitch
said.  “With a structural budget deficit second in size within
the AAA category only to the U.S. and GGGD approaching 100
percent of GDP” which is “the upper limit of the level
consistent with the U.K. retaining its AAA status -- the
likelihood of a rating downgrade has increased,” Fitch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  