-- U.S. Senate Leader Meets With Yemeni President After Protests
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-09-28T18:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/u-s-senate-leader-meets-with-yemeni-president-after-protests.html
U.S. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  met today with the president of Yemen, where violent
protests erupted after a video denigrating Islam was posted on
the Internet.  Senator  Richard Lugar , an Indiana Republican who attended
the session in the U.S. Capitol along with Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, said President Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi discussed a
variety of Middle East issues.  “We had the opportunity to hear the views of the president
and ask him questions,” Lugar said in an interview.  Yemen this month was the site of violent protests in the
aftermath of the anti-Islam video that was produced in the U.S.
Demonstrations also took place in other Islamic countries
including Egypt and Libya, where Ambassador Christopher Stevens
was killed in a Sept. 11 attack. Stevens had worked on Lugar’s
staff for a year in 2006 on a State Department fellowship.  Hadi addressed the United Nations on Sept. 26 in New York
and met yesterday in Washington with Vice President  Joe Biden 
and  John Brennan , President  Barack Obama ’s assistant for
homeland security and counter-terrorism. During the meeting,
Biden thanked Hadi for securing diplomats at the embassy in
Yemen, according to a statement by National Security Council
spokesman Tommy Vietor.  Yemen, bordering Saudi Arabia and Oman at the southern tip
of the Arabian Peninsula, is struggling to suppress al-Qaeda
militants and separatist movements, including a rebel group in
the north that has clashed with Saudi troops. Extremists based
in Yemen have mounted attacks on Western targets, including an
attempt to blow up a Detroit-bound airliner in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  