-- U.S. Leads Europe 10-6 as Final Day Begins at Ryder Cup
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-09-30T16:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/u-s-leads-europe-5-3-after-first-day-of-golf-s-ryder-cup-event.html
Europe will have to tie the biggest
comeback in history to retain the Ryder Cup as it enters the
final day trailing the U.S. by 10 points to six.  The U.S., which has lost six of the past eight editions of
golf’s premier team competition, won three of four morning
foursomes matches yesterday at Medinah Country Club outside
Chicago. Europe won the final two matches of the day after
losing the first two fourball matches.  “We’re excited about our position,” U.S. captain  Davis
Love III  told reporters. “But we know it’s not over.”  The U.S. needs 4 1/2 points from today’s 12 singles matches
to regain the trophy, while Europe requires 14 points in total
to keep the title it won two years ago. The biggest comeback in
Ryder Cup history was in 1999, when the U.S. won after entering
the final day trailing 10-6.  “The last two matches were massive,” Europe team captain
Jose Maria Olazabal said in a televised interview. “It gives us
just a chance. It’s been done before.”  On the first tee this morning, Bubba Watson didn’t demand
the silence that golfers usually prefer as they hit their shots.
Instead, the Masters Tournament champion encouraged the crowd to
cheer noisily as he struck his drive in the first singles match,
against Luke Donald of England.  First Point  The American team of Keegan Bradley and  Phil Mickelson 
secured yesterday’s first point. The duo defeated England’s Lee Westwood and Donald 7-and-6, meaning they had an insurmountable
seven-hole lead with six remaining.  The U.S. also got wins in the morning from the pairings of
 Jason Dufner  and Zach Johnson, who defeated Nicolas Colsaerts of
Belgium and Sergio Garcia of Spain 2-and-1; and  Jim Furyk  and
 Brandt Snedeker , who beat Northern Irishmen Rory McIlroy and
Graeme McDowell by one hole.  Englishmen Justin Rose and  Ian Poulter  posted the only
success in the foursomes for Europe, by one hole against Watson
and  Webb Simpson .  Tiger Woods  sat out the foursomes, in which two-man teams
alternate hitting shots with the same ball with the lowest score
winning. It was the first time the winner of 14 major
tournaments didn’t compete in a Ryder Cup session in seven
appearances.  Woods Struggles  In the afternoon fourballs, Woods and  Steve Stricker  were
paired for the third time and lost to Garcia and Donald by one
hole. Woods and Stricker, who trailed the entire match after
losing the first hole, are the only Americans who have yet to
win a point.  Woods goes out last in today’s singles, against Francesco
Molinari of Italy, with Stricker playing in the 11th match,
against  Martin Kaymer  of Germany.  In the fourball format, each golfer in the two-man teams
plays his own ball, with the lowest individual score winning the
hole for the team.  Also in the fourballs, Watson and Simpson defeated Rose and
Molinari 5-and-4 before  Dustin Johnson  and Matt Kuchar beat
Colsaerts and Paul Lawrie of Scotland by one hole.  Poulter and McIlroy won the last fourball by one hole over
 Zach Johnson  and Dufner. Poulter birdied the last five holes to
secure the victory for the European duo.  “We needed to get something going,” Poulter said in a
televised interview. “We had to make birdies and, wow, five in
a row, it was awesome.”  The Americans won three of four fourball matches on the
opening day afternoon after the sides split the morning’s
foursomes matches 2-2.  The U.S. team features five of the top 10 players in the
Official World Golf Ranking, while four of the European golfers
are ranked among the top five.  Europe has won three of the past four editions of the Ryder
Cup, including a one-point victory in 2010 at Celtic Manor
Resort in Newport,  Wales .  The 40th Ryder Cup is scheduled for Sept. 26-28 at
Gleneagles, Scotland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  