-- U.S. August Personal Income and Spending (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-09-28T12:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/u-s-august-personal-income-and-spending-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
personal income report for August from the Commerce Department.  Personal income increased $15.0 billion, or 0.1 percent,
and disposable personal income (DPI) increased $12.5 billion, or
0.1 percent, in August, according to the  Bureau of Economic
Analysis . Personal consumption expenditures (PCE) increased
$57.2 billion, or 0.5 percent. In July, personal income
increased $18.5 billion, or 0.1 percent, DPI increased $15.4
billion, or 0.1 percent, and PCE increased $45.4 billion, or 0.4
percent, based on revised estimates.  Real disposable income decreased 0.3 percent in August, in
contrast to an increase of 0.1 percent in July. Real PCE
increased 0.1 percent, compared with an increase of 0.4 percent.  FOOTNOTE  Monthly estimates are expressed at seasonally adjusted
annual rates, unless otherwise specified. Month-to-month dollar
changes are differences between these published estimates.
Month-to-month percent changes are calculated from unrounded
data and are not annualized. Real estimates are in chained
(2005) dollars.  This news release is available on BEA’s Web site at
www.bea.gov/newsreleases/rels.htm.  Wages and salaries  Private wage and salary disbursements increased $4.7
billion in August, compared with an increase of $9.3 billion in
July. Goods-producing industries’ payrolls decreased $6.4
billion, in contrast to an increase of $3.2 billion;
manufacturing payrolls decreased $5.2 billion, in contrast to an
increase of $3.4 billion. Services-producing industries’
payrolls increased $11.2 billion, compared with an increase of
$6.0 billion. Government wage and salary disbursements increased
$0.7 billion, in contrast to a decrease of $0.7 billion.  Other personal income  Supplements to wages and salaries increased $3.3 billion in
August, compared with an increase of $3.6 billion in July.  Proprietors’ income increased $7.3 billion in August,
compared with an increase of $6.5 billion in July. Farm
proprietors’ income increased $4.4 billion in August, the same
increase as in July. Nonfarm proprietors’ income increased $2.9
billion in August, compared with an increase of $2.1 billion in
July.  Rental income of persons increased $5.3 billion in August,
compared with an increase of $5.1 billion in July. Personal
income receipts on assets (personal interest income plus
personal dividend income) decreased $4.3 billion, compared with
a decrease of $13.1 billion.  Personal current transfer receipts decreased $1.4 billion
in August, in contrast to an increase of $9.5 billion in July.
Within current transfer receipts, government social benefits to
persons for Medicare increased $2.3 billion, compared with an
increase of $6.9 billion.  Contributions for government social insurance -- a
subtraction in calculating personal income -- increased $0.7
billion in August, compared with an increase of $1.4 billion in
July.  Personal current taxes and disposable personal income  Personal current taxes increased $2.4 billion in August,
compared with an increase of $3.1 billion in July. Disposable
personal income (DPI) -- personal income less personal current
taxes -- increased $12.5 billion, or 0.1 percent, in August,
compared with an increase of $15.4 billion, or 0.1 percent, in
July.  Personal outlays and personal saving  Personal outlays -- PCE, personal interest payments, and
personal current transfer payments -- increased $60.0 billion in
August, compared with an increase of $48.2 billion in July.  PCE
increased $57.2 billion, compared with an increase of $45.4
billion.  Personal saving -- DPI less personal outlays -- was $444.8
billion in August, compared with $492.2 billion in July.
Personal saving as a percentage of disposable personal income
was 3.7 percent in August, compared with 4.1 percent in July.
For a comparison of personal saving in BEA’s national income and
product accounts with personal saving in the Federal Reserve
Board’s flow of funds accounts and data on changes in net worth,
go to www.bea.gov/national/nipaweb/Nipa-Frb.asp.  Real DPI, real PCE and price index  Real DPI -- DPI adjusted to remove price changes --
decreased 0.3 percent in August, in contrast to an increase of
0.1 percent in July.  Real PCE -- PCE adjusted to remove price changes --
increased 0.1 percent in August, compared with an increase of
0.4 percent in July. Purchases of durable goods increased 0.5
percent in August, the same increase as in July. Purchases of
motor vehicles and parts accounted for most of the increase in
August. Purchases of nondurable goods increased 0.3 percent in
August, compared with an increase of 0.6 percent in July.
Purchases of services decreased 0.1 percent, in contrast to an
increase of 0.3 percent.  The  price index  for PCE increased 0.4 percent in August,
compared with an increase of less than 0.1 percent in July. The
PCE price index, excluding food and energy, increased 0.1
percent in August, the same increase as in July.  Revisions  Estimates have been revised for April through July. Changes
in personal income, current-dollar and chained (2005) dollar DPI,
and current-dollar and chained (2005) dollar PCE for June and
July -- revised and as published in last month’s release -- are
shown below.  BEA’s national, international, regional, and industry
estimates; the Survey of Current Business; and BEA news releases
are available without charge on BEA’s Web site at www.bea.gov.
By visiting the site, you can also subscribe to receive free e-
mail summaries of BEA releases and announcements.  Next release -- October 29, 2012 at 8:30 A.M. EDT for Personal
Income and Outlays for September  SOURCE: U.S. Commerce Department.     http://www.bea.gov   To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at 
 cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  