-- U.S. Intelligence Finds Organized Terrorist Attack in Libya
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2012-09-29T01:02:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/u-s-intelligence-finds-organized-terrorist-attack-in-libya-1-.html
Some of the people who carried out
the attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi, Libya, “were
linked to groups affiliated with, or sympathetic to, al-Qaeda,”
according to the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence.  The intelligence community has shifted from its initial
judgment that the attack that killed U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans began as a spontaneous
reaction during protests against an anti-Islam film made in the
U.S., according to a statement issued yesterday. Republicans
have criticized President  Barack Obama ’s administration for
providing that assessment in the days after the Sept. 11 attack.  “As we learned more about the attack, we revised our
initial assessment to reflect new information indicating that it
was a deliberate and organized terrorist attack carried out by
extremists,” Shawn Turner, director of public affairs for the
Director of National Intelligence, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “It remains unclear if any group or person exercised
overall command and control of the attack, and if extremist
group leaders directed their members to participate,” he said.  The Benghazi attack has become a U.S. political issue.  Republicans in Congress have complained about a lack of
information from the administration, suggesting officials were
reluctant to acknowledge the event as a terrorist attack with
potential links to al-Qaeda.  Republican Criticism  A group of  House Republicans , led by Armed Services
Committee Chairman Buck McKeon of  California , sent a letter to
Obama on Sept. 26 seeking a briefing on U.S. intelligence
leading up to the attack and on security at the consulate. The
lawmakers said the attacks were probably orchestrated by al-
Qaeda, and said the influence of that organization and
affiliated groups has “metastasized” in North Africa without
clearer acknowledgment of the threat from top U.S. officials.  The same day, Republican Senators  John McCain  of  Arizona ,
 Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  and  Kelly Ayotte  of  New
Hampshire  wrote to  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the  United
Nations , asking for clarification of her statements that the
attack in Libya was the  result of “spontaneous reaction.”  Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  has cited the
consulate attack in accusing Obama of minimizing the killing of
the U.S. ambassador and other turmoil in the region.  Romney said again yesterday that Obama had referred in a
television interview to anti-American protests, attacks in
 Muslim countries  and the upheaval in Syria as “bumps in the
road” to democratizing the region.  ‘Bump in the Road’  “I don’t consider the killing of our diplomats in Libya as
a bump in the road, and I sure as heck don’t consider  Iran 
becoming nuclear a bump in the road,” Romney said at the Valley
Forge Military Academy and College in Wayne, Pennsylvania.  The context of Obama’s remarks on CBS’s “60 Minutes”
program Sept. 23 was the setbacks in the process of
democratization in the Mideast.  “It was absolutely the right thing for us to do to align
ourselves with democracy, universal rights, a notion that people
have to be able to participate in their own governance,” Obama
said. “But I was pretty certain and continue to be pretty
certain that there are going to be bumps in the road because,
you know, in a lot of these places, the one organizing principle
has been Islam. The one part of society that hasn’t been
controlled completely by the government. There are strains of
extremism, and anti-Americanism, and anti-Western sentiment.”  Initial Assessment  Administration officials initially said the Benghazi attack
was an outgrowth of protests against the anti-Islam film, a
position that Turner said was consistent with the intelligence
community’s first assessment.  “In the immediate aftermath, there was information that
led us to assess that the attack began spontaneously following
protests earlier that day at our embassy in Cairo,” Turner said
in yesterday’s statement. “We provided that initial assessment
to Executive Branch officials and members of Congress, who used
that information to discuss the attack publicly and provide
updates as they became available.”  “Throughout our investigation we continued to emphasize
that information gathered was preliminary and evolving,” he
said.  At the White House Sept. 26, presidential spokesman  Jay Carney  said the president’s position was that the attack was
carried out by terrorists. U.S. officials have consistently said
it is unclear exactly who was behind the attack, dispatching an
FBI team to Libya to work with officials there on an
investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  