-- U.S. Plans Support for Syria Opposition as Regime Seen Faltering
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-09-28T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/u-s-plans-support-for-syria-opposition-as-regime-seen-faltering.html
Two dozen countries that have
concentrated on supporting Syria’s political opposition will
meet today amid increasing signs that the regime of President
Bashar al-Assad is losing control inside the country, along its
borders and over its military, a U.S. official said yesterday.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will host the meeting of
foreign ministers on the margins of the  United Nations General
Assembly , according to the official, who was not authorized to
speak on the record.  The group will discuss an intensifying humanitarian crisis
that’s displaced 1 million people internally and sent 294,000
refugees to neighboring countries, with as many as 3,000 more
fleeing every day, according to the website of the UN’s High
Commissioner for Refugees.  Clinton will lead discussion about increasing pressure on
the Syrian regime, as well as ways to hold regime officials
accountable for crimes. The foreign ministers will focus mainly
on ways to support the opposition, the U.S. official said.  That support is becoming increasingly focused on preparing
the opposition to run  Syria  after the fall of the regime, which
is slipping, the official said. Opposition members, some of whom
will be at today’s meeting, have increasingly requested training
in managing municipal services the government no longer handles,
the official said.  Their concerns are about maintaining daily life: ensuring
that electricity flows and bakeries still can make and sell
bread. The U.S. and other countries see the training as a way to
help them be ready when al-Assad’s government eventually falls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  