-- U.S. Money Funds Increase Holdings in Euro Bank Debt, Fitch Says
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-09-28T08:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/u-s-money-funds-increase-holdings-in-euro-bank-debt-fitch-says.html
U.S. prime money-market funds
increased their investment in European bank debt, focusing on
the safest assets amid the euro-area’s debt crisis, according to
 Fitch Ratings .  The 10 largest funds had 9 percent of their $645 billion of
total investments in debt issued by euro-area banks as of the
end of August, an increase of 8 percent from the previous month,
Fitch said in a report today. Secured lending through  repurchase
agreements , or repos, rose to 39 percent of exposure to euro-
region institutions.  “As some of the increased exposure was through secured
borrowings, it shows the funds are still cautious and
conservative,”  Robert Grossman , a New York-based Fitch analyst
who wrote the report, said by phone. “A lot of the increase is
explained by more exposure to German banks.”  The funds’ holdings of European bank securities are still
down 74 percent since May 2011 because of the region’s debt
market turmoil and as lenders seek forms of less volatile
funding, Fitch said.  U.S. money fund managers kept investments in U.S.
Treasuries and agency debt at more than 34 percent of assets
compared with 20 percent in May 2011, Fitch said. Holdings of
Japanese bank securities have increased by 130 percent since May
2011 to 13 percent of total assets, the most ever and the
largest single country exposure, according to the report.  “Japanese banks may be expanding overseas in markets that
are predominantly dollar-denominated like project finance,”
Martin Hansen, a Fitch analyst, said by phone. “From the funds’
perspective, there’s an element of geographic diversification.”  Fitch’s sample of the 10 largest funds represented 45
percent of the  Investment Company Institute ’s estimate of about
$1.43 trillion in total assets under management by U.S. prime
money market funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  