-- U.S. Leads Europe in Three of Four Afternoon Ryder Cup Matches
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-09-28T20:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/u-s-leads-europe-in-three-of-four-afternoon-ryder-cup-matches.html
The U.S. leads  Europe  in three of
the four afternoon fourball matches at the Ryder Cup, golf’s
premier international team competition.  The two sides are tied 2-2 after this morning’s foursomes
matches. The American pairs of Phil Mickelson and Keegan Bradley
and Jason Dufner and Zach Johnson won for the host team and
European duos of Rory McIlroy and Graeme McDowell and Ian Poulter and Justin Rose won for the visitors.  In the afternoon fourballs, Bubba Watson and  Webb Simpson 
of the U.S. hold a five-hole lead, or 5-up, over Paul Lawrie of
 Scotland  and Peter Hanson of  Sweden  through 12 holes; Mickelson
and Bradley are 3-up on McIlroy and McDowell through 9 holes;
Dustin Johnson and Matt Kuchar of the U.S. lead Rose and  Martin Kaymer  of Germany 2-up through six holes, and Steve Stricker and
Tiger Woods are tied with Lee Westwood of  England  and Nicolas
Colsaerts of Belgium through seven.  In fourballs, each golfer in the two-man teams plays his
own ball with the lowest individual score winning the hole for
the team.  In this morning’s foursomes, in which each two-man team
takes alternate shots with the same ball, Mickelson and Bradley
gave the U.S. a 1-0 lead when they defeated Luke Donald of
England and Sergio Garcia of Spain 4 and 3, meaning they had an
insurmountable four-hole lead with three remaining.  McIlroy and McDowell, both of Northern Ireland, tied the
matches by defeating Jim Furyk and Brandt Snedeker 1-up with a
par on the final hole.  Dufner and Zach Johnson put the U.S. back on top with a 3-
and-2 win over Westwood and Francisco Molinari of  Italy  before
Europe tied it again when Englishmen Poulter and Rose beat Woods
and Stricker 2 and 1 to end the morning session.  Top 10  The U.S. team features five of the top 10 players in the
Official World Golf Ranking, while four of the European golfers
are ranked among the top five.  Europe has won three of the past four editions of the Ryder
Cup, including a one-point victory in 2010 at Celtic Manor
Resort in Newport,  Wales .  There will be another day of foursomes and fourballs
tomorrow before the final 12 singles matches on Sept. 30. The
U.S. needs 14 1/2 of the possible 28 points to win back the cup,
while Europe needs 14 points to retain it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  