-- Lugar Backing Obama on Iran Says ‘Hell to Pay’ With Arms Attack
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-09-29T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/lugar-backing-obama-on-iran-says-hell-to-pay-with-arms-attack.html
Senator  Richard Lugar , the leading
Republican foreign-policy expert in Congress, said President
 Barack Obama  is following the right policy in  Iran  and warned of
the dangers of war.  “The idea of moving with our allies, as many as we can
find, on effective sanctions on the country has been the right
move” on Iran, Lugar, 80, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ” airing this
weekend.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and the Obama
administration have disagreed over how to handle Iran’s
production of enriched uranium.  “I understand even some wanting to go to war immediately
to stop it where it is and so forth,” said Lugar, an Indiana
Republican. “But even within  Israel , the reports are that the
debate with Netanyahu is very intense.”  “We’re really going to have hell to pay. They will come
back on us, and the implications for the Israeli people here are
very severe.”  Netanyahu has insisted the best way to stop  Iran’s nuclear
program  is to set explicit “red lines,” limiting its
enrichment of uranium that would justify military action if
crossed. The U.S. and  Europe  have rejected that approach,
preferring a combination of economic sanctions directed against
Iran and diplomatic engagement with Tehran.  Romney’s Critique  Lugar, whose 36-year Senate career is coming to an end
after he lost re-nomination in a May primary, rejected
Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney’s stance that Obama
hasn’t been tough enough on Iran and that he hasn’t offered
enough support to Israel. Romney has sought to use signs of
differences between Obama and Netanyahu over Iran to raise
doubts with U.S. Jewish voters about the president’s commitment
to Israel and his ability to manage turmoil in the  Middle East 
and North Africa.  Lugar widened his distance from Romney’s foreign-policy
platform, saying the nominee’s plan to call  China  a currency
manipulator is a “campaign mode.”  The U.S. had a $295 billion trade deficit with China last
year, an 8.2 percent increase over 2010. A report last month by
the  Economic Policy Institute  in  Washington  said the imbalance
has cost 2.7 million U.S. jobs in the past decade.  “It’s not a new argument, but it’s one that has some
fervor with people who believe this gives a competitive
disadvantage to us,” Lugar said in the interview.  “And it
does, in some industries, without any doubt. All I’m saying is
that, whatever the disadvantage is, it’s being narrowed bit by
bit.”  Fed’s Action  Lugar said the  Federal Reserve ’s third round of
quantitative easing, with the central bank announcing it will
buy $40 billion of mortgage bonds every month until the
employment outlook improves, is narrowing that gap as well, with
the Chinese protesting “that we’re undercutting their currency
in the process.”  Asked about his disagreement with Romney on such matters as
the nominee’s statement that  Russia  is the U.S.’s main
adversary, Lugar said the former Massachusetts governor “has
not had a great chance to study all of these issues.”  “He is trying to pick up advice on the fly, trying to pick
up campaign slogans or something that might sell in a particular
state or situation,” Lugar said. If Romney is elected, Lugar
said, he has “much greater faith in his overall intelligence,
his comprehension of the world, once he actually has the
responsibility.”  Obama’s Mistake  While he sided with Obama on his handling of Iran
sanctions, Lugar said the president made a mistake by not
meeting with world leaders at the  United Nations  this week.  “He is a candidate for re-election, and it’s a close
election,” Lugar said. “At the same time you’re president of
the  United States .”  While conferring with the world leaders is part of Obama’s
duty when the UN General Assembly meets, the demands of the
campaign and the openings for opponents to attack led to Obama
opting out, Lugar said.  “The difficulty of the president meeting with these
leaders is each one of them comes filled with various
controversies,” Lugar said. “And he might count upon his
opponent,  Mitt Romney , to point out how badly he handled the
meeting or how badly our relations are or what have you.”  Obama and Romney had separate phone calls with Netanyahu
yesterday following the Israeli leader’s speech the previous day
at the UN. Netanyahu welcomed Obama’s commitment “to do what we
must to achieve” the goal of preventing Iran from developing a
nuclear weapon, the White House said in a statement.  Romney told reporters on his campaign plane that he and
Netanyahu spoke “about his assessment of where the red line
ought to be drawn and my own views with regards to Iran.”  Libya Attacks  The UN meeting followed violent protests in several Islamic
countries after an anti-Muslim video produced in the U.S. was
posted on the Internet. Ambassador Chris Stevens was killed in a
Sept. 11 attack in Benghazi,  Libya , following the posting of the
denigrating video. Stevens had worked on Lugar’s staff for a
year in 2006 on a State Department fellowship.  “It just wasn’t very much security there in Benghazi,
which I think is evident now as they’re making longer studies of
it,” Lugar said. “When it finally comes down to it, all of our
embassies and consulates should be secure.”  Lugar said it appears that members of al-Qaeda informed
“one of the militias” involved in the Benghazi attack.  Some of the people who carried out the attack on the U.S.
consulate in Libya “were linked to groups affiliated with, or
sympathetic to, al-Qaeda,” according to a statement from the
Office of the Director of National Intelligence.  As he finishes his Senate career after losing to a Tea
Party-backed candidate in the primary, Lugar said he is staying
out of the close November contest in  Indiana  between Republican
Richard Mourdock and Democrat Joe Donnelly.  “I’m not a factor” in that race, Lugar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  