-- Ukraine’s DTEK Plans to Sell Coal to China as the Economy Slows
-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-09-28T11:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/ukraine-s-dtek-plans-to-sell-coal-to-china-as-the-economy-slows.html
DTEK, Ukraine’s largest private
coal and power producer, hopes to expand coal sales to  China  as
the world’s second-largest economy slows and demand declines.  “We are looking at China because we know it is a driver of
the world economy and the health of the Chinese economy is
correspondingly the health of the world economy and health of
our demand.” said Yuriy Ryzhenkov, DTEK chief operations
officer, in an interview in Kiev on Sept. 26. “The biggest
concern is the situation with the Chinese economy, that the
economic crisis is just starting and it is going to roll in.”  China’s economy expanded at a three-year low of 7.6 percent
in the second quarter and this year it is estimated to have the
slowest economic growth in 22 years. Ukraine’s economy,
dependent on export of steel and chemicals, slowed to 1.5
percent in the first eight months of the year from 2 percent in
the first seven as the construction industry shrank.  DTEK’s coal exports fell 21.6 percent to 1.46 million tons
in the first half, after rising an annual 73 percent to 3.4
million metric tons the the full last year. Coal exports are
estimated to decline this year, Ryzhenkov said, adding that coal
output in 2012 will probably exceed 3 million metric tons. The
company ships coal to  Turkey  and other countries in  Europe  and
 Africa  and also plans to sell to  Brazil  this year, it said.  “We are looking at the possibility to supply resources to
China, especially coal, probably anthracite, which is in great
demand in the Chinese market,” Ryzhenkov said. “We already
purchased some equipment from China and signed strategic
partnership agreements with some companies. We are also looking
at other possible partners.”  Sustain the Trend  Kiev-based DTEK is interested in coal mining equipment
deliveries from China, he said. The company had an 11.2 percent
increase in net income in the first half of the year helped by
acquisitions in late 2011 and 2012, and wants to “sustain the
trend” to the end of the year, Ryzhenkov said without
elaborating.  DTEK, which is owned by Ukraine’s richest man  Rinat
Akhmetov , bought stakes in six power generating and distributing
companies and a coal mine in the Donetsk region in government
auctions held since November 2011.  “We see signs in the market that the economy is
weakening,” he said adding that it may affect year-end results.
“We already see it weakening in the prices of coal and
electricity in the world.”  DTEK’s year-end electricity export volumes are estimated to
increase around two-fold from 2011, Ryzhenkov said. The company
is now shifting from acquisitions to making its assets “more
efficient and at world-class level” and seeks to overhaul 24
generating units in three years, according to Ryzhenkov.  New Blocs  “We cannot really wait any longer,” he said. “The
Ukrainian power-generating capacity is decaying and now is the
time to either start building new blocs or overhauling the old
ones. Our feeling is that consumers are still not ready to pay
for the new blocks.”  DTEK plans to refinance about 23 percent of its debt
portfolio over the next twelve months, Ryzhenkov said. It
includes the company’s outstanding debt of $354 million for this
year and $56 million for 2013, he said.  The company is “confident” about managing its currency
risks, Ryzhenkov said. Export sales generate 10 percent of
DTEK’s revenues and its debt is about three quarters in dollars
and euro.  “Ukraine is still a net importer of energy resources,
which means that once the currency changes its exchange rate,
within four to six months the prices will adjust,” he said.
“As long as we can cover current debt service and wait for the
price to readjust we don’t feel the problem of  managing risk .‘‘  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  