-- UN Carbon Credit Supply Falls to 19-Month Low in September
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2012-09-28T13:11:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/un-carbon-credit-supply-falls-to-19-month-low-in-september.html
Supply of United Nations carbon
offsets fell to the lowest level in 19 months in September after
credits dropped to a record.  The executive board of the UN’s Clean Development
Mechanism, the body responsible for regulating Certified
Emission Reductions,  issued  14.5 million metric tons of credits
in September, down 31 percent from 21 million in August,
according to UN data compiled by Bloomberg. This month’s volume
is the lowest since February 2011.  CERs are generated by clean-technology projects in
developing countries that reduce pollution compared with a
business-as-usual scenario. Factories and power stations
participating in carbon markets in the European Union,  Australia 
and New Zealand may use CERs to meet part of their cap on
greenhouse-gas emissions.  The flow of credits will probably rebound in October, the
UN data show. The CDM board is scheduled to issue 21 million new
credits from Oct. 1 to Oct. 26, according to a timetable of
requests for issuance on the UN  website .  Total supply of UN offsets reached 1 billion tons on Sept.
7, and may reach the limit imposed by the bloc’s regulator by
March, according to Barclays Plc.  “There is a real possibility” that the use of CERs and
Emission Reduction Units may reach the 1.4 billion metric-ton
limit set down for the second phase of the EU emissions trading
system, which ends in March,  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst at
Barclays, said in a note on Sept. 24.  Waste Factor  Almost 4 million CERs from projects that cut emissions of
hydrofluorocarbon-23 remain under review after regulators raised
questions in June over their eligibility. The queries relate to
the projects’ so-called waste factor, which determines the
volume of credits they can generate, the board said at the time.  The UN generated 193 million CERs in the first nine months
of the year. It authorized a record 320 million tons of credits
in 2011.  Prices for offsets for December delivery fell as much as
4.5 percent to 2.11 euros ($2.73) a ton today on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange, extending their drop this quarter to 50
percent. Offsets dropped to a record 1.43 euros on Sept. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in London at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  