-- Verizon Official Calls Cyber Attacks on Banks Escalation
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-09-29T04:01:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/verzon-official-calls-cyber-attacks-on-banks-escalation.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  is
helping to investigate a series of cyber attacks that have
disrupted the websites of the biggest U.S. banks over the past
two weeks, a company official said.  Verizon is looking into the attacks, which commandeered
commercial servers to overwhelm the sites with traffic, for some
of the affected banks and assisting the federal government
through the National Cybersecurity and Communications
Integration Center, said Sean McGurk, managing principal for
industrial control systems cybersecurity for the New York-based
company and formerly director of the center led by the
Department of  Homeland Security .  “It’s an escalation,” said McGurk, who said commercial
servers have been used in such attacks before, although never on
this scale. “We refer to it as a campaign,” he said.  An official at one of the banks that has been targeted said
yesterday that the attack stopped the day before when the still-
unidentified perpetrators issued a stop command to the network
of computers they had commandeered. The assault stopped because
the attackers quit or moved on to another bank, not because the
bank defeated it, said the official, who asked not to be
identified discussing security issues.  Many of the banks that were attacked were forced to reduce
their services and rely on backup procedures to restore their
main services, telling customers their websites were being
repaired, the official said.  “The sole purpose that we’ve been able to determine is
that they want to disrupt your ability to access your funds,”
McGurk said in an interview at a  security conference  in
 Washington .  Attack Goals  The goal of the attacks was to “not steal your money; not
steal your personal identity; not take information or
intellectual property from the financial institutions
themselves, but actually to prevent you from doing things that
you like to do from a convenience standpoint,” McGurk said.  Such attacks “could potentially impact the public’s trust
and confidence in your ability to deliver services,” McGurk
said. “If you’re a large bank and I constantly have issues
gaining access to what I consider to be my own money, then I may
take my money somewhere else to a bank that’s not being impacted
on a routine basis.”  The distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks on
financial firms began last week, starting with  Bank of America
Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and moving
successively this week to  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,  U.S. Bancorp (USB)  and
 PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)   Taking Responsibility  Michael Balmoris, a spokeswoman for Dallas-based  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
and Sena Fitzmaurice, a spokeswoman for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ,
headquartered in Philadelphia, didn’t respond to requests for
comment about whether they are also investigating the attacks.  Karn Dhingra, spokesman for  USTelecom , a trade group
representing U.S. telecommunications companies, said, “Our
companies are cooperating with  law enforcement  and the other
appropriate agencies who are handling the investigation, and
we’ll continue to.”  McGurk said it would take time to determine who is behind
the attacks. A group calling itself Izz ad-Din al-Quassam Cyber
Fighters claimed responsibility in a statement posted to the
website pastebin.com, saying it was in response to a video
uploaded to  Google Inc.’s (GOOG)  YouTube, ridiculing the Prophet
Muhammad and offending some Muslims.  Banks Comment  Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America hasn’t
experienced disruptions to its networks this week, company
spokesman Mark Pipitone said. Operations at U.S. Bancorp, based
in Minneapolis, returned to normal and have remained that way,
according to company spokesman Tom Joyce.  Heavy Internet traffic at Pittsburgh-based PNC is
subsiding, and operations are returning to normal, company
spokesman  Fred Solomon  said. Bridget Braxton, a spokeswoman for
San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, said customers can access their
accounts through online and mobile channels.  Kristin Lemkau, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan, said the bank
had no comment.  The assault on banks, which escalated this week, was the
subject of closed-door White House meetings in the past few
days, according to a private-security specialist who asked not
to be identified because he is helping to trace the attacks.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is circulating a
draft executive order that would create a program to shield
vital computer networks, including financial institutions, from
cyber attacks. The administration is considering the move after
the  U.S. Senate  last month failed to advance comprehensive
cybersecurity legislation backed by Obama.  Homeland Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  didn’t
directly address the bank attacks when asked about them at the
Washington security conference yesterday. She declined to give a
timeline for the executive order, saying Obama hasn’t had a
chance to review it. She said legislation is still needed for
elements such as liability protection for companies to share
cyber threat information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  