-- Wade Boggs Invests in ‘Field of Dreams’ Movie Site in Iowa
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-09-28T17:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/wade-boggs-is-investing-in-field-of-dreams-movie-site-in-iowa.html
Baseball Hall of Fame third baseman
 Wade Boggs  is investing in a youth sports tournament complex on
the movie site of  Kevin Costner ’s “Field of Dreams.”  All-Star Ballpark Heaven will host youth baseball and
softball tournaments on 24 fields in Dyersville, Iowa, said Mike
Stillman, co-founder of Go the Distance Baseball LLC, on the
real-estate development company’s website.  The complex will be similar to one near the National
Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, New York. Boggs, a 2005
Hall of Fame inductee and native of Omaha, Nebraska, said the
facilities will be easier to reach for families in the Midwest.  “In this economic downtime, people in Iowa, Idaho,  North
Dakota ,  South Dakota  and various parts out west, it’s less
travel and inexpensive travel,” Boggs, 54, said today in a
telephone interview. “It’s a win-win proposition, not only for
the kids, but for the parents involved also.”  Boggs, who played for the  Boston Red Sox ,  New York Yankees 
and Tampa Bay Rays, didn’t reveal his share of the project,
valued at $38 million by the  Associated Press .  He said the planned indoor facilities will allow kids to
train year-round, a luxury for young baseball and softball
players in areas such as Texas and California.  The complex is scheduled to open in 2014, to coincide with
the 25th anniversary of the movie. Boggs said his role, in
addition to being a business partner, will include appearances
at clinics once the site opens.  “A whole generation has gone by that enjoyed the film, now
we’re introducing to a whole new generation what the ’Field of
Dreams’ are,” Boggs said. “You don’t have to dream big, you
just have to dream.”  The field, where Shoeless Joe Jackson and others emerged
from a cornfield to play baseball for Costner’s character, Ray
Kinsella, and his family in the 1989 movie, is part of a 193-
acre farm that the Stillmans purchased this year.  Go the Distance Baseball Chief Executive Officer Denise
Stillman said the original house, barn and field will remain,
while the new complex will be located in the cornfields. She
expects 1,500 families to use the facility each week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  