-- Watson Leading U.S. Issuance Bolsters Busiest Month Since March
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-09-28T13:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/watson-leading-u-s-issuance-bolsters-busiest-month-since-march.html
Corporate issuers from  Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  to  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  are leading
$26 billion in bond sales in the U.S. this week, capping the
busiest month since March as borrowing costs reach record lows.  Sales for 2012 from the most creditworthy to the riskiest
companies surpassed the $1 trillion mark this month, an
unprecedented level for the January-through-September period,
with issuance on pace for a record year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Issuers are exploiting demand for company securities as
investors reach for riskier assets with the  Federal Reserve 
expanding stimulus measures and saying it will probably hold
 interest rates  near zero through at least mid-2015. While U.S.
corporate  yields  fell to a record 3.71 percent this week, the
extra  yield  versus Treasuries is at about a 15-year average.  “Investment options that used to provide a half-decent
return have disappeared, so investors are turning to corporate
bonds,”  William Larkin , a fixed-income  money manager  at Cabot
Money Management Inc. in Salem, Massachusetts, said in a
telephone interview. “All the treasurers working for these big
companies are saying, ‘Let’s take advantage of this rate
environment.’”  Issuance of $167 billion in September is the most since
companies from  DirecTV (DTV)  to  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB)  sold $169
billion of bonds in March, Bloomberg data show. Offerings this
week dropped 47 percent from $48.7 billion in the five days
ended Sept. 21, and compare with average weekly sales of $27.4
billion this year.  Unprecedented Pace  Borrowings of $366 billion since June have propelled
issuance to an unprecedented pace that’s set to exceed the
record $1.24 trillion of bond sales in 2009.  That surge in supply hasn’t dissuaded debt investors.
Yields on U.S. corporate debt have declined 13 basis points this
month to 3.713 percent yesterday, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data. The extra yield of 249 basis points
that investors demand to own corporate securities compares with
an average of 252 since 1996.  Watson, the generic-drug maker that agreed to buy Actavis
Group hf for 4.25 billion euros ($5.5 billion) in April, raised
$3.9 billion yesterday in a three-part bond offering to help
finance the deal.  UPS, the world’s largest package-delivery company, raised
$1.75 billion with five-, 10- and 30-year securities on Sept. 24
to refinance maturing debt, the company’s first bond sale in
almost two years. The bonds had all gained from their issue
prices as of yesterday, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Frontier Communications Corp. (FTR) , the junk-rated telephone,
Internet and television provider based in Stamford, Connecticut,
helped lead $5.4 billion of speculative-grade issuance this week
by selling an additional $250 million of its 7.125 percent debt
due in 2023 at 104.25 cents on the dollar, above its original
par price in August, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  