-- Willis Scores in Thrilling ‘Looper’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-09-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/willis-scores-in-thrilling-looper-anti-union-screed-movies.html
The persnickety complications of
time-travel are swatted away like so many butterflies in
“ Looper ,” a terrifically inventive yarn too smart to get
trapped in its own net.  One of the most engaging sci-fi films in years, Rian
Johnson’s stylish display, starring Joseph Gordon-Levitt and
Bruce Willis as the same man, an executioner, separated by 30
years of hard living, plops us into a blighted, noirish urban
landscape of 2044.  There, low-level mob hit-men murder hogtied, hooded victims
sent back in time from the year 2074.  The executioners are called loopers, since they’ll
eventually be required to kill their own future selves, thus
eliminating evidence and “closing the loop” on 30 years of
blood-money comfort.  Gordon-Levitt plays Joe, an ice-cool looper in 2044, with
Old Hollywood panache and the barest hint of a conscience. He
thinks twice before ratting out his fellow looper Seth (Paul
Dano), who’s on the run after allowing his own 2074 self to go
free.  Seth’s punishment by the mob is swift and gruesome in a
scene that’s as horrific as it is gleefully, cinematically over-
the-top.  Ruthless Goons  Naturally, a terrified Joe panics when he clumsily allows
his own future self (Willis) to escape execution. Young Joe
chases Old Joe as ruthless goons on flying motorcycles chase
both.  That would be plot enough for any movie, but “Looper”
adds another (and then some): For personal reasons, Old Joe is
hunting down a future murderer, still a toddler in 2044, albeit
one with “Carrie”-like powers strong enough to send his
terrified, protective mom (Emily Blunt) scurrying for the safety
of a steel-enforced closet.  Sounds silly, but “Looper” plays for keeps. We’re
disabused (grimly) of any notion that cuteness guarantees child
safety, and twist after twist -- including a thrilling moment
when the little boy’s gifts become all too clear -- leave us
dazzled.  Writer/director Johnson, whose earlier “Brick” showed the
promise of his collaboration with Gordon-Levitt and
cinematographer Steve Yedlin, exceeds expectations here.  Bulked Up  Willis, minus the usual tics and grimaces, is so good in
his return to the action genre that we’ll forget “ The
Expendables 2 .” Gordon-Levitt, bulked up, clinches his status
as Hollywood’s most captivating young star; he makes a
convincing anti-hero in spite of a fake nose and blackened
eyebrows that do little to suggest any genetic relation to
Willis.  And holding his own with the leads is a bearded Jeff Daniels as a time-traveling enforcer. Concealing a bone-crushing
sadism beneath scruffy geniality, Daniels’s mob boss oozes
concern when Young Joe daydreams about moving to  France .  “I’m from the future,” he says. “You should go to
 China .”  “Looper,” from Sony Pictures Entertainment, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: ****1/2 (Evans)  Maggie Gyllenhaal  “Won’t Back Down” is a feel-good union buster in which a
mother (Maggie Gyllenhaal) and a teacher (Viola Davis) try to
turn around a failing school in Pittsburgh.  The teachers’ union does the work of the devil, circulating
lies about the women’s efforts and orchestrating a smear
campaign against the teacher.  The movie, directed by Daniel Barnz, has already attracted
controversy, but its politics are a red herring. With small
changes, it could just as easily argue the pro-union position.  It “argues” in the old Frank Capra manner, making the
caring parents and dedicated teachers good-looking and spirited,
their opponents sour and plain. Everything is broadcast in giant
letters, so you never get to decide what to think or feel about
anything.  In the past, Gyllenhaal has played down her saucer-eyed
perkiness by lacing it with sultriness. Here she’s so
effervescent her head could explode.  Davis delivers the same slow burn that gave her performance
in “The Help” such dignity and power. A year later, it feels
trademarked.  A school system that considers grinding up kids to be
business as usual is clearly broken. Parents and teachers who
try to throw a wrench into it are heroes. Boneheaded movies, on
the other hand, are themselves business as usual.  “Won’t Back Down,” from 20th Century Fox, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: * (Seligman)  (Greg Evans and Craig Seligman are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  N.Y. Weekend  and  Jeremy Gerard  on
theater.  To contact the writers on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com . and
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 