-- WTO to Probe U.S. Anti-Subsidy Duties on Chinese Imports
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-09-28T21:09:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/wto-to-probe-u-s-anti-subsidy-duties-on-chinese-imports.html
The  World Trade Organization  will
decide whether U.S. anti-subsidy duties affecting $7.3 billion
of Chinese products such as solar panels, thermal paper, wind
towers and steel wire violate global commerce rules.  The Geneva-based trade arbiter agreed yesterday to set up a
panel of judges to investigate China’s allegation that the U.S.
acted “inconsistently with WTO rules and rulings in many
aspects” during probes to determine whether Chinese companies
received illegal government aid.  The two governments have stepped up WTO complaints and
rhetoric over access to the others’ markets this year as the
global economic crisis crimps trade. The Obama administration
says China keeps its currency undervalued and engages in unfair
tactics that have led to chronic U.S. trade deficits and the
loss of millions of American jobs.  Cracking down on China has emerged as a key campaign issue
in the U.S. presidential race, with Republican candidate  Mitt
Romney  blaming President  Barack Obama  for the loss of U.S
manufacturing jobs and criticizing him for not declaring China a
currency manipulator. Obama has said his administration has
lodged trade complaints against China at almost twice the rate
of his Republican predecessor,  George W. Bush .  China’s Complaint  China lodged its complaint on May 25, just eight days after
the U.S. Commerce Department imposed duties of as much as 250
percent on Chinese solar imports, siding with companies
including  SolarWorld AG (SWV)  that said the goods were sold below the
cost of production, a practice known as dumping.  The Commerce Department also made a preliminary finding in
March that China illegally subsidizes exporters of crystalline
silicon photovoltaic cells and solar panels. The U.S. applied
tariffs on Chinese producers and exporters including  Suntech
Power Holdings Co. (STP)  and  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)   The European Union has also threatened to impose duties on
solar panels from China by starting an inquiry into whether
Chinese manufacturers of the products are dumping them in the
EU. The probe covers 21 billion euros ($27 billion) of imports
of crystalline silicon photovoltaic modules or panels and cells
and wafers used in them.  China’s complaint against the U.S. followed its March 2011
victory against American anti-dumping and anti-subsidy levies on
imports of Chinese steel pipes, pneumatic off-road tires and
woven sacks. WTO appeals judges ruled then that the Commerce
Department wrongly labeled state-owned suppliers of goods to the
Chinese producers hit by the duties as public bodies.  Designations  In the May 25 case, China  says  the Commerce Department made
the same error by designating as public bodies the state-owned
companies that supplied products to the manufacturers of the 22
imports targeted by the U.S. tariffs. These imports also include
steel grating and steel pipe, citric acid, kitchen shelving and
lawn groomers.  China’s complaint was its seventh against the U.S., which
has lodged 15 cases against the Asian nation -- more than half
the number of all WTO challenges against the Chinese government.
The most recent U.S. complaint was lodged on Sept. 17, when the
Obama administration accused China of illegally subsidizing
exports of cars and car parts.  That came hours after China  complained  at the WTO about
U.S. anti-subsidy and anti-dumping measures applied to Chinese
exports including paper, steel, tires, magnets, chemicals,
kitchen appliances, wood flooring and wind towers.  The WTO also agreed to a request by Ukraine for judges to
investigate Australian rules on plain packaging of tobacco
products. In its panel request, Ukraine said the measures
“erode the protection of intellectual-property rights” and
“impose severe restrictions on the use of validly registered
trademarks.”  The trade arbiter rejected a U.S. request for judges to
probe  China ’s anti-dumping and countervailing duties on American
automobiles. China won’t be able to block a second request,
which the U.S. can make at the WTO’s next Dispute Settlement
Body meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  