-- Wuhan Steel to Buy ThyssenKrupp Unit, Entering German Market
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-09-28T16:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/wuhan-steel-to-buy-thyssenkrupp-unit-entering-german-market-1-.html
Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. agreed to
buy  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ’s tailored blanks division, marking China’s
entry into German steel-rolling as the Asian country seeks to
meet growing demand from automakers.  The tailored blanks unit, which supplies body systems for
cars, has two of its 13 plants in  Germany , Stefan Ettwig, a
spokesman for Essen-based ThyssenKrupp, said by phone after the
company  announced  the agreement. Wuhan Steel confirmed the
purchase in a separate statement. Neither disclosed deal terms.  China’s steel companies are expanding abroad as its growing
car and construction industries boost demand for materials.
Hebei Iron & Steel Group said it would buy a stake in Canada’s
 Alderon Iron Ore Corp. (ADV)  in April, while Shanghai-based Baosteel
Group Corp. agreed to extend cooperation with Australia’s
 Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG)  in June.  The ThyssenKrupp agreement “underlines the strategy of the
Chinese to get to know processes and work flows to acquire
knowledge of high-quality processes,” Ingo Schmidt, an analyst
at Hamburger Sparkasse AG, said today by telephone from Hamburg.  The tailored blanks unit, based in Duisburg, Germany,
reported sales of about 700 million euros ($906 million) in the
last fiscal year and has a market share of about 40 percent,
according to ThyssenKrupp.  Asset Sales  Germany’s biggest steelmaker is divesting assets
contributing about a quarter of annual revenue to reduce debt
and fund growth. With today’s deal, still subject to regulatory
approval, it’s signed or closed about 95 percent of the disposal
program announced in May 2011.  “It’s remarkable how the management board is executing its
agenda,” Christian Obst, an analyst at  Baader Bank AG (BWB) , said by
phone from Munich. “That confirms its clear strategy to make
the group leaner and to shift the focus to capital goods.”  ThyssenKrupp closed up 0.8 percent at 16.54 euros for the
second-best performance on Germany’s benchmark index. Wuhan
Steel rose 0.8 percent in  Shanghai .  Two calls to the Wuhan, Hebei province-based company’s
general line after normal working hours weren’t answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  