-- Yuan Rises to Strongest Level Since 1993 on Stimulus Bets
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-09-28T09:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/yuan-rises-to-strongest-level-since-1993-on-china-stimulus-bets.html
The  yuan  climbed to a 19-year high
on speculation China will step up efforts to arrest a seven-
quarter slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy.  The currency had its biggest gain in six months after the
People’s Bank of China strengthened its reference rate today by
the most since Aug. 22. The central bank injected a record
amount of funds into the financial system this week to address a
cash squeeze ahead of a weeklong holiday that starts Oct. 1. The
 Shanghai  Composite Index jumped 4.1 percent in the past two days,
buoyed by a report suggesting policy makers plan to unveil
measures to support Chinese stocks.  “Funds are flowing back into the market as people bet
 China  will soon act more aggressively to revive growth,” said
Kenix Lai, a Hong Kong-based foreign-exchange analyst at Bank of
East Asia Ltd. “There’s always expectations that the government
will announce important polices before or at the end of a long
holiday. The stock market is also rallying on stimulus bets.”  The yuan gained 0.28 percent to close at 6.2849 per dollar
in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. It has strengthened 1.1 percent this quarter and today
touched 6.2835, the strongest level since China unified official
and market exchange rates at the end of 1993. The currency can
trade as much as 1 percent on either side of the central bank’s
daily fixing, which was raised 0.08 percent today to 6.3410.  U.S. Election  Before today’s advance the yuan was headed for an annual
decline versus the dollar and renewed appreciation may make
Chinese currency policy less of a hot topic in the U.S., where
President  Barack Obama  is seeking a second term in a November
election.  Obama, who has said China keeps its currency weak to give
its exporters an edge, touted a trade complaint against the
Asian nation this month over illegally subsidizing shipment of
automobiles and auto parts. Republican candidate  Mitt Romney 
said he would on his first day in the White House tell the
Treasury Department to list China as a currency manipulator,
paving the way for more duties on Chinese imports. The U.S.
ambassador to China, Gary Locke, said Sept. 13 the yuan “is
still undervalued.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.19 percent to
6.4065 per dollar in Hong Kong, a 1.9 percent discount to the
spot rate in Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan gained 0.19 percent to
6.3010. The onshore exchange rate will end this year at 6.32,
according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Traders Surprised  “The yuan forwards are strengthening as the onshore spot
rose to a record high, which took some investors by surprise,”
said Banny Lam, a Hong Kong-based chief economist at CCB
International Securities Ltd., a unit of China’s second-largest
bank by market value. “Those investors might have to terminate
some short positions,” he said, referring to bets China’s
currency would weaken.  The yuan’s rally is being spurred by an expanding supply of
dollars. The Federal Reserve announced a third round of asset
purchases this month, a policy known as quantitative easing that
spurs demand for higher-yielding assets beyond U.S. borders. The
yield on China’s one-year government debt is  2.82 percent ,
compared with  0.16 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The securities regulator is considering lowering taxes on
stock and bond investments, China Securities Journal reported
today, citing an unidentified official. Economists predict gross
domestic product will increase 7.4 percent in the three months
through September, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey, and that would be the smallest gain since
March 2009. Growth slowed in each of the previous six quarters.  “The economy is not doing so well and the government will
implement new stimulus although the scale won’t be as large as
before due to concerns about some bubbles in the property
market,” said Bruce Yam, a foreign-exchange strategist at Sun
Hung Kai Financial Ltd. “The yuan will find it difficult to
strengthen beyond 6.25 in the final quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net 
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 