-- Yuan Climbs to Strongest Level Since 1993 on China Stimulus Bets
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-09-28T06:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-09-28/yuan-climbs-to-strongest-level-since-1993-on-china-stimulus-bets.html
The  yuan  climbed to its strongest
level since 1993 on speculation  China  will step up efforts to
arrest a seven-quarter slowdown in the world’s second-largest
economy.  The People’s Bank of China strengthened the  reference rate 
by 0.08 percent today, the most since Aug. 22, fixing it at
6.3410 per dollar. The monetary authority injected a record
amount of funds into the financial system this week to ease a
cash squeeze in the run up to a weeklong holiday that starts
Oct. 1. The  Shanghai  Composite Index jumped 4.1 percent in the
past two days, buoyed by a report suggesting policy makers plan
to unveil stock-market supporting measures.  “Funds are flowing back into the market as people bet
China will soon act more aggressively to revive growth,” said
Kenix Lai, a Hong Kong-based foreign-exchange analyst at  Bank of
East Asia Ltd. (23)  “There’s always expectations that the government
will announce important polices before or at the end of a long
holiday. The stock market is also rallying on stimulus bets.”  The yuan gained 0.24 percent to 6.2872 per dollar at 2:51
p.m. in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade
System. It touched 6.2856, the strongest level since China
unified official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993.
The currency, which has strengthened 1.1 percent this quarter,
can trade as much as 1 percent on either side of the central
bank’s daily fixing.  ‘New Stimulus’  The securities regulator is considering lowering taxes on
securities investments, China Securities Journal reported today,
citing an unidentified official. Economists predict gross
domestic product will increase 7.4 percent this quarter,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey, and that
would be the smallest gain since March 2009.  “The economy is not doing so well and the government will
implement new stimulus although the scale won’t be as large as
before due to concerns about some bubbles in the  property
market ,” said Bruce Yam, a foreign-exchange strategist at Sun
Hung Kai Financial Ltd. “The yuan will find it difficult to
strengthen beyond 6.25 in the final quarter.”  Still, a People’s Bank of China academic adviser said the
risk of a rebound in property prices may help explain why the
government is holding back from easing monetary policy to
counter a deepening economic slowdown.  That concern is “a big restraint,” Chen Yulu, president
of Beijing’s Renmin University, said yesterday to reporters
after speaking at a forum in the city. Further cuts in  reserve
requirements  or  interest rates  depend on how much external
demand worsens, Chen said.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained 0.14 percent
to 6.4097 per dollar in  Hong Kong , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That was a 1.9 percent discount to the spot rate in
Shanghai.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.15 percent. In Hong Kong’s offshore
market, the yuan rose 0.17 percent to 6.3026.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net 
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 