-- Argentina Working to Resolve Trade Tensions, Lorenzino Says
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-17T18:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/argentina-working-to-resolve-trade-tensions-lorenzino-says-1-.html
Argentina  is working to resolve
 trade  tensions with countries including  Chile  and Uruguay,
Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino told reporters in Uruguay.  South America ’s second-biggest economy imposed additional
import restrictions last month, prompting Chile’s Finance
Minister Felipe Larrain to say on March 14 that his country is
“concerned’’ that its exports may be affected.  “Always when there’s a very important growth process,
there are also some marginal tensions,” Lorenzino said today
from Montevideo, where he was attending the Inter-American
Development Bank’s annual meeting. “The governments are working
to resolve any kind of tension that may occur and that’s what is
happening.”  Argentina’s President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  sought
to stem a narrowing trade surplus as imports were growing faster
than exports. The surplus, fueled by demand for soybean and
automobile exports, narrowed in 2011 for a second year, falling
to $10.3 billion from $11.6 billion.  Importers have been required since Feb. 1 to make a sworn
statement to the national tax agency and obtain approval from
the institution before they purchase merchandise to bring into
the country.  Nicolas Eyzaguirre, director of the International Monetary
Fund’s Western Hemisphere, yesterday called on governments to
avoid protectionism as a way to protect their countries from a
lowering global demand.  “Protectionism may be the biggest enemy that we have and
that’s why we call authorities to avoid those practices because
while it could be a solution in the short term, it may turn
against us in the long term,” Eyzaguirre told reporters at the
IADB meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  