-- Britain Will Keep Austerity With Unemployment at 16-Year
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2012-03-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/britain-will-keep-austerity-with-unemployment-at-16-year.html
Britain won’t ease austerity in its
budget to be presented this week, U.K. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  said in an interview to be aired today
on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” program.  “We are going to stick with the deficit reduction plan
that I set out almost two years ago,” Osborne said, according
to a transcript of the interview.  U.K. jobless claims rose more than economists forecast in
February, and a broader measure of unemployment remained at the
highest level in 16 years, according to data released March 14
by the  Office for National Statistics  in  London .  Keeping austerity measures in place is important “to
provide the stability that the British economy needs and the low
 interest rates  the British economy needs to allow the recovery
to take hold,” Osborne said.  “The plan we put in place is bringing that deficit down
and borrowing is coming down,” he said. “But even with that,
we still have one of the highest budget deficits in the world.”  The U.K. has the third highest deficit in the Group of
Seven countries, behind  Japan  and the U.S. Osborne is trying to
rid Britain of a budget deficit equal to 9 percent of gross
domestic product by 2017. His austerity program will cost more
than 700,000 government jobs. Critics including the opposition
 Labour Party  say the scale of the squeeze is worsening Britain’s
economic woes.  Fitch Rating  Britain risks losing its top investment grade because of
its limited ability to deal with shocks,  Fitch Ratings  said in a
March 14 statement.  Fitch changed the outlook on Britain to “negative” from
“stable,” indicating a “slightly greater” than 50 percent
chance that the AAA rating will be reduced within two years, the
company said, citing the weak economic recovery, high debt
levels and threats from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Osborne is meeting with coalition partners to agree on a
budget he will present on March 21.  Osborne said the U.S. and the U.K are “not that
dissimilar” in their need for deficit reduction.  “All Western countries know that they’ve got to deal with
that question the rest of the world and the markets have, which
is, OK, well, how are you going to pay your way?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  