-- Canadian Dollar Rises in Longest Weekly Rally Since 2005
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-17T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/canadian-dollar-rises-in-longest-weekly-rally-since-2005.html
The Canadian dollar extended its
rally against the yen for a 10th week in its longest winning
streak in almost seven years as a rally in U.S. stocks
encouraged demand for higher-risk assets.  Canada ’s currency was the best performer during the past
month among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes on speculation the economic
recovery of the U.S., the nation’s biggest trading partner, is
firming. Canadian government 10-year yields rose to a four-month
high before a report next week forecast to show consumer prices
increased at faster annual rate.  “What we have seen in terms of data for the U.S. has been
relatively positive and providing support for the Canadian
dollar,” said Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange strategist
at Nomura Securities Inc. in New York.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 1.1 percent to
84.13 yen yesterday, from 83.25 on March 9. The 10 weeks of
gains is the longest span since one of the same length that
ended in July 2005. The loonie declined 0.1 percent to 99.17
cents per  U.S. dollar .  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback decreased this week. It touched 6.90
percent yesterday after reaching 6.89 percent on Feb. 24, the
lowest level on record. Implied volatility, which traders quote
and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
currency swings. It averaged 9.99 during the past year.  Volatility Impact  Lower volatility makes investments in currencies with
higher benchmark rates more attractive because the risk in such
trades is that market moves will erase profits. Canada’s target
lending  rate  is 1 percent, compared with the  Federal Reserve ’s
range of zero to 0.25 percent.  Government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on the benchmark
10-year security up 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point,
to 2.24 percent, the biggest weekly increase since July. The
yield touched 2.30 percent, the highest level since Oct. 31. The
price of the 3.25 percent security maturing in June 2021 fell
C$2.06 to trade at C$108.36.  Canada will auction C$1.4 billion ($1.4 billion) of 30-year
bonds on March 21, according to a statement on the central
bank’s website. The 3.5 percent securities are due to mature in
December 2045.  Foreign investors were net sellers of Canadian securities
during January, marking the first decline in holdings in seven
months, government figures showed yesterday. Investors abroad
slowed purchases of Canadian bonds to C$1.87 billion, following
an accumulation of C$3.10 billion in December.  U.S. Stock Rally  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  rose for a fifth
consecutive week after the Federal Reserve raised its assessment
of the  U.S. economy  and refrained from new actions to lower
borrowing costs.  The index advanced 2.4 percent from a week earlier,
reaching its highest level in almost four years. The S&P/TSX
Composite Index was little changed for the week. Futures on
crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, were little changed at
$107.30 a barrel.  “The Canadian dollar is quite sensitive to moves in the
 S&P 500 ,” said  Mark McCormick , a New York-based currency
strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., in a telephone
interview March 13. The currency is “much more sensitive to the
S&P than most other drivers.”  The loonie has a 120-day correlation coefficient of 0.85
with the U.S. equity index. A reading of one would mean the two
move in lockstep.  Proxy for Growth  The Canadian currency, which tends to trade as a proxy for
global economic growth on speculation its economy will benefit
from demand for raw materials, has appreciated 1 percent in the
past month, the most among 10 correlation-weighted peers. The
U.S. dollar has advanced 0.4 percent.  “I’m a Canadian dollar bull,” said  Camilla Sutton , head
of currency strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto, in a
telephone interview March 14. “I would still rather be long the
Canadian dollar than almost anything else. Expect the risk rally
to continue for a bit longer.”  Canada’s  consumer prices  rose at a 2.7 percent annual rate
last month after a 2.5 percent increase in January, according to
the median forecast of 21 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the March 23 report from  Statistics Canada . Economists
project that the gauge of inflation will rise 0.4 percent from
the previous month.  “February is usually a month for high inflation, so the
likelihood of having a strong number is quite high,” according
to St-Arnaud or Nomura Securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  