-- Chavez Returns to Venezuela After Cancer Surgery in Cuba
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-03-17T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/chavez-returns-to-venezuela-after-cancer-surgery-in-cuba-1-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
arrived in Caracas yesterday following surgery in Cuba to remove
a second cancerous tumor from his pelvic area.  Dressed in a black sports jacket over a red polo neck
shirt, Chavez descended from the plane flanked by his mother and
two eldest daughters to be greeted by ministers on the tarmac.
During a 30-minute speech he said he’d followed events in
Venezuela closely from Cuba and felt reinvigorated, while
revealing little about his operation or plans to receive
radiotherapy.  “Each day my spirit gives me more strength and will to
live, more will to fight and more will to win and triumph
against adversary and difficulties,” Chavez said in comments
broadcast across all channels in  Venezuela . “I have promised
you: I will live.”  He said he’ll address supporters from a balcony in the
presidential palace today.  Chavez, who has refused to reveal exactly what kind of
cancer he has or allow access to medical records, has insisted
his health problems won’t prevent him from running in an
election on Oct. 7 in which he’s seeking to extend his thirteen
years in power until 2019.  Malignant Recurrence  He said last week that doctors in Cuba on Feb. 26 removed a
two-centimeter “lesion” from the same area where a larger
tumor was removed in June. Doctors determined it was probably a
malignant recurrence that hasn’t spread to other parts of his
body, Chavez said March 4. He will probably undergo a course of
radiation treatment once the scarring process finishes, he said
in the pre-recorded speech from  Havana .  The operation was the third he’s undergone in eight months
since an abscess in his pelvic area was discovered during a
visit to Cuba in June. Following surgery to drain the abscess,
Chavez underwent a second operation to remove a baseball-sized
tumor.  During nearly three weeks of convalescing on the communist
island, Chavez has sought to remain in the public eye through
daily messages on his Twitter account showing he’s following
events in Venezuela and phone calls to state television.  The self-declared socialist’s cancer has sparked a rally in
Venezuelan bonds as investors bet on a higher likelihood his
rival Henrique Capriles Radonski could take power and introduce
more market friendly policies. Capriles has said that if he wins
he’ll gradually eliminate policies implemented during Chavez’s
13-year rule such as currency controls and the nationalization
of over a thousand businesses and assets.  Bond Yields  The yield on the benchmark 9.25 percent bonds maturing in
2027 has fallen to 10.44 percent from 13.41 percent at the start
of the year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price
has surged from 73.00 cents on the dollar on Jan. 3 to 90.96
cents yesterday.  Chavez, who said in October he was cancer-free following
four rounds of chemotherapy, won a 2006 election by 63 percent
to 37 percent. Since then, polls show his popularity has waned
to around 50 percent as the economy has experienced slow growth
and high inflation.  Venezuela’s economy grew 4.2 percent in 2011 following a
two-year recession. Consumer prices rose 25.6 percent in
February, the highest of 88 economies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Cancel at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net  