-- China Police Block Visit for StanChart Banker’s Fiance
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-03-17T12:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/china-police-block-visit-for-standard-chartered-banker-s-fiance.html
The fiance of a  Standard Chartered
Plc (STAN)  private banker who was detained in China days before the
couple planned to wed in Singapore said police barred him from
seeing her after he refused to stop speaking out about the case.  Jason David Tan, 34, had been scheduled to meet with Wu Yidian Eden in a hotel in Jiangyin, the city in coastal Jiangsu
province where she’s being detained, he said in a telephone
interview late yesterday. Police are investigating one of Wu’s
clients, who allegedly fled with as much as $50 million
embezzled from  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288) , Tan said.  Police told Tan they would only allow him to meet Wu, 31,
should he promise to stop speaking with the media and  posting
information  on the Internet. Tan said he’s concerned his fiancee
will be held for longer if he stops making public comments.  Wu has worked for  Standard Chartered  for nine months and is
an associate director in the Shanghai private banking division,
he said. The banker, a naturalized Singaporean citizen, was
taken into custody on March 6, two days before she and Tan were
scheduled to fly to Singapore for their wedding, he added.  Standard Chartered, the U.K. lender whose pretax earnings
from China doubled in 2011, is among foreign companies expanding
private banking in China to tap its growing wealth. Chinese
millionaires will hold $8.76 trillion of assets by 2015 as their
number is set to more than double, according to a study by
Julius Baer Group and CLSA Asia Pacific Markets in September.  Lawyers Blocked  Wu was allowed to meet her parents and two representatives
of the Singaporean consulate yesterday, and she and Tan later
spoke by phone, he said. The police have prevented her from
meeting her lawyer or a lawyer representing the bank, Tan said.  Five telephone calls by Bloomberg to the Jiangyin police
press office and its economic crimes unit went unanswered today.  Standard Chartered is liaising with Wu’s family and lawyer
and providing support, Melissa Cheah, a spokeswoman for the bank
in  Singapore , said in an e-mailed reply to queries yesterday.  The Agricultural Bank worker involved in the case was
employed at a sub-branch in Yaosai in Jiangyin city, a press
official for the Chinese lender in Beijing said yesterday by e-
mail, declining to be identified because of company policy.  The press official wouldn’t name the employee, comment on
his or her whereabouts or discuss the allegations. The case is
being investigated by the police and the bank will provide any
necessary assistance, the official said.  Standard Chartered on March 15 said that Wu, a relationship
manager, had been detained by police, without giving a reason.
The London-based lender says it’s not being investigated.  The bank, the third-largest foreign lender by branches in
 China , said Feb. 29 it planned to expand its network to more
than 100 outlets, from about 81 at the end of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  