-- Cyclone Lua Batters Western Australian Mining Region
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-17T09:49:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/cyclone-lua-strengthens-heads-toward-australian-coast.html
Tropical Cyclone Lua, a Category 4
storm, battered  Australia ’s northwestern coast in the Pilbara
mining region with winds of around 250 kilometers an hour (155
miles an hour).  “The bad part of the storm has moved over the coast
already,” James Ashley, a forecaster in the Bureau of
Meteorology’s cyclone warning center in Perth, said in a phone
interview today.  The port of Dampier, used by  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s
second-biggest shipper of iron ore, is shutting down in
anticipation of large swells, according to Gervase Greene, a
spokesman for the company. London-based Rio Tinto has secured
its Dampier Salt operations while iron ore mining further inland
is continuing, he said yesterday. Greene said in an e-mail today
the company didn’t have anything to add.  Port Hedland, the world’s biggest iron ore port used by  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. (FMG) , shut down in
anticipation of the storm on March 15.  Lua is the second strongest storm on the cyclone scale,
which runs from one to five. The eye of the storm would cross
over Pardoo Station, Ashley said. Pardoo Station is a remote and
sparsely populated site about 120 kilometers north of Port
Hedland.  Seek Shelter  A red alert, the highest warning, has been issued to people
in or near the coastal communities between Bidyadanga to DeGrey
in the Kimberley and Pilbara, the Fire & Emergency Services
Authority of Western Australia said in an e-mailed statement.
Residents are advised to seek shelter “immediately” because
the storm poses a threat to lives and homes, the statement said.  “Gales are occurring in coastal areas east of Port
Hedland, extending to Bidyadanga and south to inland areas near
Marble Bar,” the FESA said. “Destructive winds to 150
kilometres per hour are possible east of Port Hedland to Wallal
and across the inland eastern Pilbara.”  Tides are likely to rise significantly with damaging waves
and dangerous flooding, the emergency authority said.  The Great Northern Highway and North West Coastal Highway
around Port Hedland have been closed and motorists face fines
for using their vehicles during a red alert, the authority said.  The cyclone has prompted  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,  Apache
Corp. (APA)  and  Santos Ltd. (STO)  to shut output at offshore fields that
account for more than one-quarter of Australia’s oil output.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  evacuated workers from Barrow Island where
it’s building the $37 billion Gorgon liquefied natural gas
project and the Wheatstone LNG venture, the San Ramon,
California-based company said in an e-mailed statement March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  