-- Afghan Rampage Suspect to Meet With Defense Lawyer Today
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s ,   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P e t e r   R o b i s o n
-- 2012-03-19T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/ted-bundy-s-lawyer-represents-soldier-accused-of-afghan-rampage.html
John Henry Browne, lawyer for the
U.S. soldier suspected in the shooting deaths of 16 Afghan
civilians, has a history of defending clients in multiple-
homicide cases, including serial killer Ted Bundy and mass
murderer Benjamin Ng.  Today, he is to meet with Army Staff Sergeant Robert Bales
at Fort Leavenworth,  Kansas . Bales, who hasn’t been charged with
a crime, is suspected of going on a rampage three months into
his first tour of duty in Afghanistan after three deployments to
 Iraq . The Army said in a memo to Congress that the soldier hiked
to two villages close to his base near Kandahar city on March 11
to commit the killings.  Browne, 65, who was chief trial lawyer in the King County
 Office of the Public Defender  in Seattle before going into
private practice, has also made a name for himself in 40 years
as an attorney by representing arsonists, a shoeless airplane
thief and a man accused of killing a celebrity dog trainer.  “He seems to thrive on controversial cases, and he gets
good outcomes for his clients,” said Richard Hansen, whom
Browne hired in 1976 to work as a public defender in  Seattle .  Emma Scanlan, an associate of Browne, said yesterday he
will meet with Bales at the military prison.  “Sergeant Bales’ family is stunned in the face of this
tragedy, but they stand behind the man they know as a devoted
husband, father and dedicated member of the armed services,”
the defense lawyers said in an earlier statement.  ‘Too Early’  “It is too early to determine what factors may have played
into this incident and the defense team looks forward to
reviewing the evidence,” including Bales’s medical and
personnel records, and interviewing witnesses, they said.  The stress of a fourth deployment, a troubled marriage and
alcohol use appear to have combined to provoke the killings, a
U.S. official briefed on the case has said.  At a press conference at his Seattle office on March 15,
Browne disputed that account.  “This is a very strong marriage,” Browne said. “There’s
a lot of love, a lot of respect, two children.”  There were no incidents of domestic violence “whatsoever”
and no indication alcohol had played a part in the alleged
attack, Browne said.  If convicted of murder after a military trial, the suspect
may face a death sentence, said Eugene Fidell, former president
of the National Institute of Military Justice.  Preliminary Hearing  The soldier will have a preliminary hearing, where a
military judge will decide whether there is sufficient evidence
to proceed with a court-martial, said Fidell, who teaches
military justice classes at  Yale University . There is no bail in
military proceedings, he said.  Browne graduated from  American University (NAUH)  School of Law in
1971, according to his  law firm . He worked as an assistant
attorney general in Washington state before joining the public
defender’s office in 1975.  Last year, Browne represented airplane thief Colton Harris-
Moore, known as the “Barefoot Bandit” because he committed
some of his crimes while not wearing shoes. Moore pleaded guilty
to the plane theft and other charges and is serving a 6 1/2-year
prison sentence.  Bundy assaulted or killed three dozen women across the U.S.,
 according  to the  Federal Bureau of Investigation . He was one of
the FBI’s 10 most wanted fugitives when he was caught in
February 1978. He was executed in  Florida  in 1989.  Of Counsel  Browne was counsel for Benjamin Ng, who was convicted in
the killing of 13 people in Seattle in 1983. Ng was spared a
death sentence.  Browne also represented Michiel Oakes, who was convicted of
killing Mark Stover, a dog trainer who worked for  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  and Seattle Mariners
outfielder  Ichiro Suzuki . Oakes got a 26 1/2-year sentence in
2010, the Seattle Times reported.  Prosecutors who worked on the Oakes and Harris-Moore cases
declined to discuss their experiences with Browne or didn’t
respond to calls seeking comment.  Browne, although not a regular on the military circuit, is
highly competent as a defense lawyer and a reasonable choice as
counsel because he’s from “that part of the country,” Fidell
said.  “In serious cases, people who can afford it will hire a
civilian,” he said. “There aren’t that many civilian lawyers
who do these cases.”  While lawyers from the Army’s Judge Advocate General Corps
will provide assistance, Browne will steer the case and make the
strategic decisions, Fidell said.  Afghan Attack  In the Afghan attack, 11 of those killed were allegedly
gathered into one home and set on fire, Lal Mohammed, an elder
from Zangabad, the area where the incident occurred, said by
phone. Afterward, Bales walked back to base and surrendered,
according to Brigadier General Carsten Jacobson, spokesman for
the NATO-led force in  Afghanistan .  U.S. President  Barack Obama  called Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  “to express his shock and sadness” and pledged “to
hold fully accountable anyone responsible,” according to a
White House statement. Karzai said the incident shows “great
oppression and cruelty” toward the people of Afghanistan,
according to a statement from his office.  Evidence gathering for the soldier’s hearing could be
difficult because of the incident’s location, Fidell said. The
hostility of villagers and Muslim law requiring bodies to be
buried quickly and without an autopsy also pose obstacles to
prosecution, according to Fidell.  Collect Evidence  Investigators will collect as much evidence as possible
ahead of the preliminary hearing, Fidell said.  “That’s assuming they’re getting assistance from the
villagers instead of being shot at,” he said.  The last soldier executed by the military was Army private
John Arthur Bennett, Fidell said. Bennett, convicted of raping
and attempting to murder an 11-year-old Austrian girl, was
executed by hanging in 1961. A handful of army prisoners are
being held on death row at the U.S. disciplinary barracks in
Fort Leavenworth, Fidell said.  “No one can be executed without the affirmative personal
approval of the president,” Fidell said.  Defense lawyers represent unpopular clients to protect the
legal process, said Hansen, the former public defender.  “The tough cases tend to warp the system in a bad way,”
Hansen said in a phone interview. “The public becomes acutely
aware of the most horrendous crimes so the laws tend to get
ramped up because of the most atypical cases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Robison in Seattle at 
 robison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  