-- Egypt Constitution-Writing Committee to Include 50 Lawmakers
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-03-17T16:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/egypt-constitution-writing-committee-to-include-50-lawmakers.html
Egypt ’s Islamist-dominated
parliament voted to include 50 of its lawmakers in a 100-member
panel tasked with writing a new constitution, with the remainder
coming from other institutions.  The results were read by Mohamed Saad el-Katatni, speaker
of the lower house of parliament, according to footage of the
session posted on the Cabinet’s Facebook page.  “The proposal that has received the most votes is the one
stating that 50 percent of the composition of the constituent
assembly comes from within parliament and 50 percent from
outside parliament, including all institutions, civil society
institutions and public personalities,” el-Katatni said.  The makeup of the committee has been the focus of wrangling
over the degree of influence Islamist groups will have shaping
the constitution. The Muslim Brotherhood’s party alliance makes
up the largest bloc in the recently elected parliament, followed
by a Salafi alliance. Salafis are followers of an austere
interpretation of Islam.  “You’re going to agree on 100 people, and then get those
100 people to agree on politically-charged issues that have
created a lot of polarization in Egypt: the role of the
military, oversight over the military budget, the role of
religion in public life, the division of power between
parliament and the president,”  Shadi Hamid , director of
research at the Brookings Doha Center in Qatar, said by phone.
“That’s a challenge.”  Regime Critics  Secular politicians and those concerned that Islamist
parliamentarians will dominate the committee have called for the
inclusion of members from outside the legislature.  The Brotherhood and its party have tried to assuage such
fears. Mohamed Morsi, chairman of the Brotherhood’s Freedom and
Justice Party, said in a statement last month that the group is
“keen on the participation of all groups, institutions, parties
and political and societal forces” in the drafting body.  Critics of the ruling military council have said they don’t
want the charter drawn up while the generals are still at the
helm, concerned they may try to influence the process and
enshrine privileges for the armed forces.  Activists accuse the military council, which assumed
interim rule fromHosni Mubarak, of mismanaging the transition
and trying to hold on to power. The generals have said they will
stay until a president is elected.  The presidential elections commission announced on Feb. 29
that Egyptians at home will vote for a new president on May 23
and 24, and that the final result will be announced on June 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  