-- Merkel Free to Focus on Elections After Germans Choose President
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-03-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/merkel-unhurt-by-spat-as-germany-elects-president-from-the-east.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has
been freed to focus on issues likely to shape her chances of a
third term after changing sides to ensure the election of
Joachim Gauck as the country’s 11th postwar president.  Merkel can concentrate on three forthcoming state elections
and euro area crisis-fighting. With her Free Democrat coalition
allies backing Gauck, a candidate she initially opposed, it also
enables her to dodge a conflict within government which might
have dented her record-high approval ratings.  “She’s like Teflon,”  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING
Groep in Brussels, said in an interview. “Everything that could
have been blamed on her hasn’t affected her at all.” Merkel
“has shown that she can sit things out.”  Yesterday’s decision means that  Europe ’s biggest economy is
headed for the first time by both a chancellor and president who
grew up behind the Iron Curtain. A special federal assembly of
national and state politicians convened in Berlin elected Gauck
with 991 of the 1,232 ballots cast.  The election of Gauck, 72, a former pastor and East German
anti-communist activist, was the second vote for the mainly
ceremonial post in less than two years. Gauck was the main
opposition candidate in 2010, when he lost to  Christian Wulff ,
Merkel’s pick. Wulff quit on Feb. 17 to face a criminal probe
that may lead to corruption charges. He denies any wrongdoing.  Nazi Hunter  His main opponent this time was Beate Klarsfeld, 73. The
German-born, Paris-based Nazi hunter was nominated by the anti-
capitalist Left party. With Merkel’s coalition and two
opposition parties backing Gauck, his election was assured.  Gauck, the son of a sailor who was sent to a Soviet Gulag
for more than three years in the 1950s, grew up in the Baltic
Sea port city of Rostock and became a leading figure in East
Germany’s anti-communist opposition in 1989. He later gained a
reputation as  Germany ’s leading “Stasi hunter” for his work in
overseeing the opening of millions of files kept by informants
of the communist-era Ministry of State Security.  “Out of the joy of liberation came the joy and obligation
to take on duties,” Gauck said after the vote.  After expressing reservations about the opposition’s
support for Gauck, Merkel backed down last month when the Free
Democrats, her junior coalition ally, supported him. By
retreating and moving on, she tamped down a domestic distraction
as European leaders were struggling to craft a second bailout
for Greece.  Euro Bailouts  An Emnid poll on March 11 showed national support for her
bloc at 36 percent, the best level since 2008. Her FDP ally,
which has seen voter support collapse amid leadership changes
and a split over its stance on euro bailouts, had 3 percent
backing, against almost 15 percent in 2009. The main opposition
 Social Democrats  had 28 percent support and the Greens 14
percent.  “She checked it off the list in a hurry,” Manfred Guellner, head of the Berlin-based Forsa polling firm, said of
the Gauck spat. “It didn’t harm the high approval she enjoys.
When Merkel is alone on the stage saving the euro, that’s when
she scores points.”  Next stop for Merkel is Saarland, where voters cast ballots
on March 25 in the first of three German state elections this
yea, followed by the northern state of Schleswig-Holstein on May
6. North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany’s most populous region with
almost a quarter of the country’s 82 million people, will also
vote the same day. It’s a bellwether for the respective parties’
national fortunes ahead of a federal election due next year.
While not yet scheduled, that vote will probably also take place
in May.  Dead Heat  Merkel’s position is a turnaround from last year, when her
national coalition was defeated or lost votes in all seven state
elections as Germany’s involvement in the crisis stemming from
 Greece  made it the biggest contributor to euro-region bailouts.  Polls now show the CDU and Social Democrats in a dead heat
in Saarland, suggesting the CDU and SPD will govern the region
bordering France and Luxembourg in a “grand coalition,”
mirroring Merkel’s first-term government.  That’s a constellation Germans like because they favor
cooperation among the two biggest parties rather than conflict,
making another grand coalition a possible outcome of the next
national election in 18 months, Forsa’s Guellner said.  With the Free Democrats decimated, Merkel sought agreement
with the opposition to find a presidential candidate, who is
elected by the assembly meeting at the Reichstag building in
Berlin.  The chancellor’s majority in the assembly narrowed to as
little as two seats from 21 seats in 2010, when Wulff defeated
Gauck, according to election website  wahlrecht.de .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  