-- Goldman’s Board Must Act on Smith Op-Ed, Former Partner Writes
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-19T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/goldman-sachs-board-must-act-on-smith-op-ed-ex-partner-writes.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s
 directors  must investigate a former employee’s allegations about
a change in the firm’s culture, Jacki Zehner, who was a partner
when she left the company in 2002, wrote on her  blog .  Zehner said she doesn’t know Greg Smith, the derivatives
salesman whose New York Times  op-ed piece  blamed Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein and President Gary D. Cohn for
fostering a “toxic and destructive” environment, causing Smith
to quit last week. Zehner, who worked at Goldman Sachs for 14
years, wrote that she’s heard from “many people” in the past
few years that the firm is emphasizing profits over character.  “These are very serious accusations from a credible person
in my view and I hope it does indeed provide a ‘wake-up’ call to
the board of directors,” wrote Zehner, who was the first female
trader promoted to partner and is married to a former partner.
She is now CEO and president of  Women Moving Millions , a non-
profit supporting the advancement of women and girls worldwide.  “It is the board that is accountable to shareholders and
before they take another paycheck I hope they ask a heck of a
lot of questions and get honest answers,” Zehner, 47, wrote in
her March 16  commentary .  Blankfein, 57, and Cohn, 51, who have held their current
roles since 2006, responded to Smith’s op-ed with a memo
expressing disappointment with his assertions and cited a survey
of employees that found most disagree. Still, “if an individual
expresses issues, we examine them carefully and we will be doing
so in this case.”  ‘Verbal Hand Grenade’  David Wells , a spokesman at Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment beyond the contents of the memo.  Janet Tiebout Hanson, who left Goldman Sachs after almost
14 years in 1993 and in 1997 founded the women’s networking firm
 85 Broads , wrote her own  blog response  to Smith’s op-ed piece,
calling it a “cowardly act.”  “By tossing a verbal hand grenade on his way out the door,
he sullied the reputations of the vast majority of the people at
the firm who work and live by the highest possible professional
standards every single day,” wrote Hanson, who was the first
woman at Goldman Sachs to be promoted into sales management.
“He is just a quitter who never gave management an opportunity
to respond before he verbally strafed the entire firm in
print.”  Seek Some Answers  Hanson, 59, said she was “delighted” to become a Goldman
Sachs client when she started an asset-management firm,
Milestone Capital, in 1995. Milestone Capital had an “awesome
relationship” with the fixed-income trading desks at Goldman
Sachs, which she said was partly responsible for its growth the
next five years.  “ Greg Smith  got his 15 minutes of lame fame, which is all
it is,” she added.  In Zehner’s blog post, she said the board should decide how
to respond to Smith’s accusations after they get some answers.  “If those answers are that the kind of behavior reported
by Mr. Smith is not the norm, then they would have done their
job, this story will fade and Goldman will go about its business
for another 143 years,” she wrote. “If the answers are the
opposite, heads should roll.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 