-- Isner Reaches His First ATP Masters Event Against No. 3 Federer
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-03-18T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/isner-defeats-world-no-1-djokovic-to-advance-in-indian-wells.html
John Isner  beat World No. 1 and
defending champion Novak Djokovic to advance to the final of the
ATP Indian Wells Masters where he will face  Roger Federer  in the
first of nine World Tour Masters 1000 events.  Isner, ranked 11th in the world before the match, defeated
Serbia’s Djokovic 7-6 (9-7), 3-6, 7-6 (7-5) in the match
yesterday at the Indian Wells Tennis Garden in Indian Wells,
 California . He became the first U.S. man to beat a World No. 1
player since  James Blake  topped  Switzerland ’s Federer at the
Beijing Olympics.  The win, the 26-year-old’s first over a top-ranked
competitor, ensures that he will break into the Top 10 world
rankings for the first time, according to the ATP website. If he
wins today, he will jump two spots to reach No. 8, passing  Mardy Fish  to become the highest-ranking American.  “It was very special when that last ball went by him and I
knew I had won the match,” Isner, who clinched the victory with
his 20th ace, told reporters. “It was a weird feeling, a very
nice feeling. It’s something that you don’t experience every
day. So I was just trying to take it all in.”  Federer, 30, will have the chance to avenge his loss to
Isner in a Davis Cup match last month.  “It’s not such a big surprise to be playing him, he’s a
great player,” Federer said. “It’s nice to see him stringing a
lot of match wins together. I’m looking forward to this match
after he beat me in Switzerland.”  Rain Delay  Federer defeated  Spain ’s  Rafael Nadal , ranked No. 2 in the
world, 6-3, 6-4, in a match delayed three hours by rain.  Federer took the lead early, winning the match with six
aces and four breaks of serve in 91 minutes.  “I had a great day,” said Federer, who is 10-18 against
Nadal. “It was a good match in tough conditions.”  Isner won two of his three career titles in 2011 at minor
events. Djokovic has won 24 matches and lost five at Indian
Wells.  Djokovic, 24, who lost to Andy Murray 6-2, 7-5 in the
semifinal of the Dubai Championships on March 2, ended
yesterday’s match with eight aces and two double faults.  “It’s frustrating when somebody serves over 70 percent of
the first serves in and with that angle and with that speed and
accuracy,” Djokovic said. “But I played him before. I knew I
had to stay patient and just wait for the chance. I had some
chances. I didn’t use them.”  Djokovic was looking for his fourth trip to the  Indian
Wells  final. He finished second to Nadal in 2007 and won the
title over Fish in 2008 and against Nadal in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  