-- John Demjanjuk, Kicked Out of U.S. for Nazi Past, Dies at 91
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-03-17T18:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/john-demjanjuk-kicked-out-of-u-s-for-nazi-past-dead-at-91.html
John Demjanjuk, a retired  Ford (F) 
Motor Co. auto mechanic who was stripped of his U.S. citizenship
and convicted by a German criminal court for aiding the Nazis in
the murder of Jews during the Holocaust, has died. He was 91.  He was found dead this morning in his room at a home for
the elderly in the southern German town of Bad Feilnbach, Martin
Winkler, a spokesman for the Bavarian police, said in a
telephone interview from Rosenheim, Germany.  “There will be a normal investigation into the cause of
death and more details will be made public on Monday,” Winkler
said. Bad Feilnbach is about 65 kilometers (40 miles) southeast
of Munich.  For three decades, the U.S. Justice Department targeted
Demjanjuk as a  Nazi war criminal  who had lied about his World
War II activities to win entry to the U.S. in 1952. He became a
naturalized citizen in 1958 and changed his first name to John,
from Iwan. He lived with his family in Seven Hills,  Ohio , a
suburb of  Cleveland .  Demjanjuk denied aiding Nazi war crimes and, in 1993,
defeated the sensational charge that he was the notorious
Holocaust torturer “Ivan the Terrible” of the  Treblinka 
extermination camp.  The case didn’t end there. In 2005, U.S. Chief Immigration
Judge Michael J. Creppy ordered Demjanjuk be deported on the
grounds that, even if he was not “Ivan the Terrible,” he had
served at Nazi death camps.  Pending Appeal  In May 2011, after a trial lasting almost 18 months, the
Munich Regional Court in Germany found Demjanjuk guilty of
aiding the Nazis in the murder of at least 28,000 Jews at the
 Sobibor  death camp. Sentenced to five years in prison, he was
released pending an appeal; that appeal was in process at the
time of his death.  Prior to his transfer to  Germany , he had appealed
unsuccessfully to U.S. courts to halt his deportation, with his
son, John Jr., saying his father suffered from  kidney disease 
and a bone-marrow disorder.  The son told the Associated Press today: “My father fell
asleep with the Lord as a victim and survivor of Soviet and
German brutality since childhood. He loved life, family and
humanity. History will show Germany used him as a scapegoat to
blame helpless Ukrainian POWs for the deeds of Nazi Germans.”  Denied Accusations  A native of what is now Ukraine, Demjanjuk said he was
drafted into the Soviet army in 1940, was captured by the
Germans and spent the rest of the war in prisoner-of-war camps.
He denied ever fighting for the Nazis and said his fear of being
sent back to the  Soviet Union  prompted his false assertion, on
his U.S. visa application, that he had been a farmer in  Poland 
during the war.  The U.S. first won a court order stripping Demjanjuk of his
citizenship in 1981. He was extradited to  Israel  in 1986 to face
charges that he was the sadistic SS guard who tortured Jewish
prisoners while herding them into gas chambers at Treblinka, in
German-occupied Poland.  After a trial that riveted Israel and turned in part on
testimony from Treblinka survivors, the court in 1988 convicted
Demjanjuk of crimes against humanity and sentenced him to death
by hanging.  Israel’s  Supreme Court  overturned the ruling in 1993 and
returned Demjanjuk to the U.S., where his citizenship was
restored. The Israeli judges cited newly released Soviet records
that contained depositions from three dozen Treblinka guards and
forced laborers who identified “Ivan the Terrible” as Ivan
Marchenko. Demjanjuk had listed his mother’s maiden name as
Marchenko on his U.S. visa application but later said he had
simply chosen a common Ukrainian surname because he had
forgotten the real one.  Black Mark  The ruling was a black mark for U.S. prosecutors. A federal
appeals panel that reviewed the case accused the  Justice
Department ’s Nazi-hunting unit, now known as the  Human Rights
and Special Prosecutions Section , of fraudulently withholding
some of the evidence that ultimately helped Demjanjuk defend
himself.  In 2002, prosecutors won a second court ruling that
 stripped  him of his U.S. citizenship. In that case, Judge Paul R. Matia ruled that Demjanjuk had been a “willing,” paid guard
at five Nazi concentration camps from 1942 to 1944 and had lied
on his 1951 visa application about his whereabouts from 1942 to
1945. That ruling led to the 2005 deportation order and years of
appeals by Demjanjuk.  “We want him to stay here because we believe that’s where
he belongs,” Demjanjuk’s son-in-law, Edward Nishnic, told the
Cleveland Plain Dealer in 2007. “That would be the best for Mr.
Demjanjuk and his family. It would be the end of a very long,
sad show.”  Life in Ohio  John Demjanjuk  was born on April 3, 1920, in the Ukrainian
town of Dubovi Makharyntsi. Living in Ohio, he spent three
decades as a mechanic on a Ford assembly line.  He lived a mostly secluded life in his family’s Ohio home
after his return to the U.S. in 1993, the Plain Dealer reported.
He made an appearance in court for a 2005 hearing, accompanied
by his wife, Vera, and son, John Jr., the newspaper reported.
They also had two daughters.  Nishnic, who helped lead the effort to clear Demjanjuk’s
name, told the New York Times in 1992 that Demjanjuk and his
wife had used all their savings and sold many of their
possessions to fund the defense effort.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  