-- Zardari Says Pakistan Wants U.S. Ties Based on Mutual Respect
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-03-17T21:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/pakistan-s-zardari-seeks-to-restore-u-s-ties-amid-challenges.html
President Asif Ali Zardari said
 Pakistan  is seeking to restore ties with the U.S. as Pakistani
lawmakers prepare to seek consensus on the relationship after
tensions over the conflict in  Afghanistan .  “Pakistan-U.S. relations are multidimensional and
important” and they should be based on mutual respect, Zardari
told lawmakers during his annual address to a joint sitting of
parliament in Islamabad yesterday. Pakistan wants to “engage
meaningfully with the U.S.,” he said.  A parliamentary committee on national defense is reviewing
Pakistan’s ties with the U.S. after American helicopters
attacked two Pakistani border posts on Nov. 26, killing 24
soldiers. In protest, Pakistan closed its border to the resupply
of U.S. forces in Afghanistan and suspended much military and
intelligence cooperation.  Pakistan’s Parliament will begin debating recommendations
on the country’s ties with the U.S as early as tomorrow, and
lawmakers will have an opportunity to debate and amend the
proposals. The nation is expected to share the review with the
U.S. by the end of this month, according to Pakistani and U.S.
government officials.  “I don’t think Pakistan can afford a complete breakdown in
ties” with the U.S., said Hasan-Askari Rizvi, an independent
political and military analyst in Lahore. “They will try to set
new conditions for the transit facilities for NATO forces before
opening the land routes, and seek some guarantees that the
country’s sovereignty will be respected.”  Taliban Talks  The U.S. needs Pakistan’s help as President Barack Obama
withdraws troops from neighboring Afghanistan and negotiates
peace terms with the Taliban and other militant groups after a
decade-long conflict.  Pakistan’s main opposition, led by former prime minister
 Nawaz Sharif , and religious parties, boycotted Zardari’s speech
to protest his handling of the economy and corruption charges
against him.  The government is struggling to revive growth as inflation
reaches 11 percent, factories close due to a power deficit and
conflict with the Taliban and al-Qaeda militants continues. The
economy is still expected to grow by 4 percent in the year
through June, up from a 2.4 percent pace last year, Zardari
said.  Zardari and his government, headed by Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani , have been assailed by the army and the nation’s
 Supreme Court  over issues including a memo sent to U.S. military
chiefs seeking help to prevent a coup, as well as Gilani’s
refusal to abide by court rulings that he pursue corruption
cases against Zardari in  Switzerland .  The top court will next meet over the graft probe on March
21. Gilani could be sentenced to six months in jail and
disqualified from holding the National Assembly seat he needs to
remain as premier if he’s found guilty of contempt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  