-- Treasuries Post Biggest Weekly Decline in Eight Months on Growth
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-03-17T04:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/treasuries-post-biggest-weekly-decline-in-eight-months-on-growth.html
Treasury (YCGT0025)  10-year notes declined the
most in eight months after the  Federal Reserve  drove investors
into riskier assets and reduced speculation of further debt
purchases by increasing its assessment of the  U.S. economy .  Yields on the benchmark  note  rose to the highest level in
more than four months yesterday as a report showing the cost of
living rose in February added to concern inflation may
accelerate as the recovery strengthens. The difference in yields
between 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities climbed to 2.41 percentage points, the most since
August, as the U.S. prepared to sell $13 billion of the
securities on March 22.  “The  bear market  has begun,” said James Combias, the New
York-based head of Treasury trading at Mizuho Securities USA
Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the central
bank. “The world has been parked out in the  bond market .”  The 10-year yield rose 27 basis points, or 0.27 percentage
point on the week, to 2.30 percent in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The increase was the most since
yields rose 32 basis points in the five days ended July 1. The
2 percent note due February 2022 dropped 2 11/32, or $23.44 per
$1,000 face amount, to 97 12/32.  Thirty-year  bond yields  closed up 23 basis points at 3.41
percent, after climbing as high as 3.48 percent on March 15, the
highest since October.  Fed Speculation  Volatility jumped this week from the lowest level in more
than four years. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index,
which measures price swings based on options, increased on March
14 to 89.7 basis points, the highest since Jan. 3. It reached
69.9 basis points on March 12, the least since July 2007 and
closed yesterday at 84.9.  “The economy is getting better so we are going to higher
ranges,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of
Treasury trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York.
“Some people took profits off the table.”’  While Fed policy makers refrained at their March 13 meeting
from new actions to lower borrowing costs and said the U.S.
labor market is gathering strength, they also reiterated a
pledge to keep the benchmark  interest rate  at almost zero
through at least late 2014.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two
rounds of so-called quantitative easing from December 2008 to
June 2011 in a bid to boost the economy.  Forward-Rate Structure  Forward markets for overnight index swaps, whose rate shows
what traders expect the federal funds  effective rate  to average
over the life of the contract, signal a quarter-percentage
advance in approximately the September and October 2013 period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg as of March 15. Last
month, such an increase in the effective rate wasn’t predicted
until early 2014. This year the effective rate has averaged 0.15
percentage point below the top end of the target range that the
Fed reiterated three days ago.  “In the past few weeks, the market had been thinking the
forward-rate structure it had priced in was too flat and had
rates generally too low,” said Jim Lee, head of short-term
markets and futures and options strategy in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS
Securities Inc. “There are still people thinking that this move
is just beginning.”  After the Fed’s March 13 statement, a measure of traders’
inflation  expectations  that the central bank uses to help
determine monetary policy climbed to 2.56 percent on March 13
from its 2012-low of 2.37 percent March 5. The five-year, five-
year forward break-even rate, which projects what the pace of
price increases may be starting in 2017, hasn’t risen above 2.62
percent this year and is below the 2.76 percent average since
2002.  Inflation Expectations  The consumer-price index climbed 0.4 percent in February,
matching the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News, after increasing 0.2 percent the prior month, the Labor
Department reported yesterday. The so-called core measure, which
excludes more volatile food and energy costs, climbed 0.1
percent, less than the 0.2 percent projected.  Inflation “has been subdued in recent months although
prices of crude oil and gasoline have increased lately,” the
Fed said in its March 13 statement. The increase in oil will
“push up inflation temporarily, but the committee anticipates
that subsequently inflation will run at or below the rate that
it judges most consistent with its dual mandate.”  Term Premium  At the same time, valuation measures show government debt
is becoming less expensive. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed, rose to negative 0.34 percent yesterday,
the least since October. The figure touched negative 0.79
percent on Feb. 2, the most expensive ever, and compares with
the average of positive 0.56 percent over the past decade. A
negative reading indicates investors are willing to accept
yields below what’s considered fair value.  FTN Financial Chief Economist Christopher Low, the most
accurate forecaster of Treasury note yields last year, said
slowing U.S. economic growth will push 10-year yields down to
2.1 percent by year end.  “We expect interest rates to fall in the second half of
this year,” Low said. While yields may climb to 2.5 percent
over the next few months, they will trade primarily within a
range of 1.8 percent to 2.3 percent, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  