-- U.S. Citizen Freed After Nine-Month Iraq Detention, UN Sa
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-03-17T21:24:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/u-s-citizen-freed-after-nine-month-iraq-detention-un-sa.html
A U.S. citizen was handed over to
the United Nations mission in  Iraq  by two Iraqi legislators, the
UN said in an e-mailed statement.  The man had been held in detention for about nine months by
an Iraqi group, the UN said in the statement, without
identifying the group. The U.S. State Department said in an e-
mailed statement an American was transferred to the U.S. Embassy
in  Baghdad  from the UN mission in Iraq.  The UN and the State Department declined to identify the
American. He was handed over today by Deputy Speaker of the
Council of Representatives, Quasay Al-Suhail, and Maha al-Douri,
a member of the Iraqi Parliament, according to the UN.  The Iraqi news agency Al Sumaria reported that the man was
handed over by followers of the anti-U.S. Iraqi Shiite cleric
Moqtada al-Sadr.  Without identifying himself, the man spoke at a press
conference outside the Green Zone in Baghdad today, the
 Associated Press  reported.  Iraqi lawmakers displayed U.S.-issued military and
contractor ID cards that identified him as Randy Michael Hultz,
the Associated Press reported. The Al Sumaria report said the
man’s name is Randy Michael Hill, 59, a retired member of the
U.S. military.  At the press conference the man gave few details of what he
described as a “kidnapping,” or how he was treated while
captured, according to AP. The man was taken into the Green Zone
and turned over to the UN mission immediately after the press
conference, AP said.  The kidnappers, the man said during the press conference,
were from the Promised Day Brigade, a branch of the Mahdi Army,
a militia that is controlled by al-Sadr, according to the AP.  The Al Sumaria report, citing al-Douri, said the man was
freed after the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq “to give a
message about Iraq’s good intentions and to say that Iraq
restored its sovereignty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  