-- Lufthansa’s BMI Regional Sale Stalls as Buyer Lacks Funds
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-03-17T17:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/lufthansa-s-bmi-regional-sale-stalls-as-buyer-lacks-funds.html
Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ’s sale of its
BMI Regional unit is faltering as the buyer is struggling to
raise money for the purchase, according to an e-mail sent to
staff by BMI’s chief executive officer.  Lufthansa said Jan. 20 that a deal to sell BMI Regional to
an unidentified buyer had been concluded subject to “certain
pre-conditions.”  “It was hoped that the sale would have been completed by
now but as funding requirements have not been met by the
potential buyer, the process has been delayed,” according to
the e-mail sent to staff yesterday by BMI CEO Wolfgang Prock- Schauer and seen by Bloomberg News.  The sale of BMI Regional is part of Cologne-based
Lufthansa’s effort to divest money-losing  British Midland
Airways Ltd. , known as BMI.  International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA (IAG) , the parent of British Airways, agreed in December to
buy BMI for 172.5 million pounds ($273.3 million).  BMI, based at East Midlands Airport in Derby,  England ,
operates three units: BMI, which flies to destinations in the
U.K.,  Europe , the  Commonwealth of Independent States , the  Middle
East  and  Africa ; BMI Regional, a short-haul carrier in the U.K.
and Europe; and BMIbaby, a low-cost airline.  As part of the deal, Lufthansa has the option to sell both
BMI Regional and its discount carrier BMIbaby, with IAG
receiving a “significant price reduction” if BMI fails to
dispose of BMIbaby before the deal is completed.  The carrier is in advanced discussions with one of two
potential bidders for BMIbaby, according to Prock-Schauer’s e-
mail. Lufthansa hasn’t disclosed the names of any of the
potential buyers of BMI Regional or BMIbaby.  Regulatory Approval  The sale of BMI to IAG has yet to be approved by European
Union regulators, though both airlines said March 15 that they
are confident that the deal will receive regulatory clearance
and are targeting closing the sale by the end of this month. The
European Commission on March 12 extended a deadline to rule on
the deal to March 30.  “Regarding BMI Regional we have concluded an agreement
with a U.K.-based investor group which is subject to certain
pre-conditions which are to be fulfilled,” BMI said in an e-
mailed statement today in response to a request for comment.  Andreas Bartels , a Lufthansa spokesman, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  