-- Vonn Sets World Cup Record; Hirscher Wins Giant Slalom Title
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-17T14:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/vonn-sets-world-cup-record-hirscher-wins-giant-slalom-title.html
Lindsey Vonn  of the U.S. set a
women’s World Cup skiing record for points in a season as
Austria’s Marcel Hirscher claimed the men’s giant slalom title.  Vonn’s eighth-place finish in today’s slalom at the World
Cup Finals in Schladming, Austria, gave her 1,980 points,
passing the mark of 1,970 points set by Croatia’s Janica Kostelic in 2006.  The 27-year-old American, focused on breaking the record of
2,000 points set by Austrian Herman Maier, which she can do by
finishing 12th or better in tomorrow’s season-ending race giant
slalom race, didn’t downplay her accomplishment.  “I am excited, I do care about beating Janica’s record”
Vonn, who won the downhill super-G and super combined titles
this season, was cited by the  World Cup   website  as saying.
“That was the goal; to get a few points and make my job
tomorrow a little easier. I’m going to go as hard as I can.”  Hirscher, 23, captured the men’s giant slalom title by
leading a top-three finish for Austria today.  Hirscher, had a time of 2 minutes, 25.53 seconds to finish
ahead of countrymen Hannes Reichelt and Marcel Mathis. The win
clinched not only the discipline’s title but also gave him a 25-
point lead in the overall standings over  Switzerland ’s Beat Feuz
with only tomorrow’s slalom left on the season schedule.  Feuz is not competitive in the slalom and said he may not
race, virtually assuring Hirscher the overall title.  “In my wildest dreams, I couldn’t have imagined a day like
today,” Hirscher said in comments on the World Cup website.
“Winning the GS Cup, winning today’s race and the overall in
front of this crowd. I am so happy and overwhelmed.  Austria ’s Michaela Kirchgasser won the women’s slalom by
0.12 seconds ahead of Slovakia’s Veronika Zuzulova. Austrian
Mariles Schild, who had already won the slalom season
championship, was third.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch on the London sports desk at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  