-- Wales Seals Rugby Grand Slam With Character, Coach Gatland Says
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-03-19T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/wales-beats-france-16-9-to-win-six-nations-title-in-grand-slam.html
Wales ’s third Six Nations rugby
Grand Slam sweep in eight seasons was based on the character of
a team whose best may be yet to come, coach Warren Gatland said.  Wales beat France 16-9 two days ago to win the title as
Alex Cuthbert scored the only try and Leigh Halfpenny kicked 11
points. Wales won all its five matches -- known as the Grand
Slam -- to top the standings with 10 points.  “They showed great character,” Gatland told reporters
after the match at Cardiff’s Millennium Stadium. “We have been
down in games during this tournament and we have learnt how to
win ugly and in the past that may not have happened.”  Wales’s first Grand Slam since 2008 took its total to 11,
one behind  England ’s record of 12. It’s the eighth time a team
has won all five matches since  Europe ’s annual championship
expanded to six teams in 2000.  The clean sweep, which followed a fourth-place finish at
last year’s  World Cup  in  New Zealand , was based on a nucleus of
players who may improve. Of the 15 players who started against
the French, only front-row forwards Adam Jones, Matthew Rees and
Gethin Jenkins were over 30.  “We’re still a young side,” Rees, 31, said in comments on
the Welsh Rugby Union’s website. “There’s plenty still to
achieve and we’re looking forward to the World Cup in 2015.”  Cuthbert, 21, touched down in the 20th minute and Halfpenny
converted as Wales took a 7-3 lead. Halfpenny then booted his
first penalty to give the Welsh a 10-3 halftime lead.  France  got within four points on Lionel Beauxis’s penalty
early in the second half, though the 23-year-old Halfpenny
answered with a penalty of his own eight minutes later.  After Dimitri Yachvili’s penalty made it 13-9 with eight
minutes left, Halfpenny kicked his third to clinch the victory.  ‘Over the Moon’  “The boys put their body on the line, you have to do that
to win a Grand Slam,” Wales back-rower Dan Lydiate said after
being named man-of-the-match. “We’re quite a young team so this
is the first chance for a lot of us to win anything, we’re over
the moon.”  England finished two points behind in second place after
routing Ireland 30-9 as Owen Farrell kicked 20 points at
Twickenham in London. Wales won 19-12 at Twickenham on Feb. 25  Ireland and France ended with five points, with the Irish
taking third place on a better points difference. Italy beat
 Scotland  13-6 in a matchup of winless teams. Giovanbattista
Venditti scored the only try in  Rome  as Scotland lost its
seventh straight game.  After becoming only the second Wales coach to win two Grand
Slams, Gatland targeted more wins against New Zealand,  Australia 
and  South Africa , the top-three teams in the International Rugby
Board  rankings . Australia hosts Wales in a best-of-three Test
series starting June 9 in Brisbane.  “Our big aim is to be consistent in beating the southern
hemisphere sides,” Gatland said. “We have a young enough side
that over the next few years hopefully we can do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  