-- Wisconsin Supreme Court Justice Accused of Ethics Violations
-- B y   M a r i e   R o h d e   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-03-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/wisconsin-supreme-court-justice-accused-of-ethics-violations.html
David T. Prosser Jr., a Wisconsin
 Supreme Court  justice, was accused of ethics code violations for
allegedly putting his hands around the neck of Justice Ann Walsh Bradley in June prior to the court issuing a ruling on a law
limiting union bargaining rights for state workers.  A special prosecutor appointed by the State Judicial
Commission filed a request yesterday with the state Supreme
Court for sanctions against Prosser, saying the nine-member
commission found probable cause to believe he willfully violated
the judicial ethics code.  Prosser allegedly violated requirements that a judge be
“patient, dignified and courteous” to those involved in the
court system; that they cooperate with one another and that they
maintain high standards of conduct to ensure the integrity of
the judiciary, according to the special prosecutor, Franklyn M.
Gimbel, a Milwaukee lawyer.  Gimbel also sent a letter to the chief of the appellate
court,  Richard Brown , asking that a three-judge panel be
appointed to hear the case. Statutes also allow for a jury to
hear allegations.  Never Intentionally Touched  Prosser responded to the charges saying he never
intentionally touched Bradley’s neck, according to a statement
distributed by Supreme Court spokesman Tom Sheehan.  “The charges filed by the Judicial Commission are
partisan, unreasonable and largely untrue,” the justice said.
“They will be vigorously contested because I am innocent.”  Another special prosecutor last year declined to issue
criminal charges against Prosser or Bradley related to the
incident after Bradley filed a police report. All but one of the
justices was present during the altercation and they gave
conflicting statements.  The three-judge panel will conduct a trial on the charges.
The proceeding won’t be public. The panel’s findings will be
sent to the state Supreme Court for a decision on sanctions.
That tribunal could issue a written reprimand, censure Prosser,
suspend him without pay or remove him from office. The complaint
didn’t request a form of discipline.  Bradley’s Office  The incident occurred in Bradley’s office. Prosser
confronted Bradley and Abrahamson about when the court’s
decision on the law that stripped most unionized state workers
of their bargaining rights would be released, according to
yesterday’s filing by Gimbel.  The discussion became heated and Bradley got up from her
desk and walked toward Prosser ordering him from her office,
according to the filing. She said he put his hands on her neck.  He said he reflexively put his hands on her neck and said
it wasn’t intentional.  The court was split 4-3 on the collective bargaining case
with Prosser in the majority, which said the legislation was
lawfully adopted, and Bradley in the minority. Chief Justice
Shirley Abrahamson wrote a minority opinion, to which Bradley
concurred.  “The Commission has been patently unfair in its handling
of this matter,” Prosser said in his statement. “It’s not been
interested in discerning the truth. It has been committed to
making a political statement.”  In re Matter of Judicial Disciplinary Proceedings Against
the Hon. David T. Prosser, 12 AP 566J, Wisconsin Supreme Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  