-- Yen Posts Longest Losing Streak in 3 Years on Growth
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-03-17T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-17/yen-posts-longest-losing-streak-in-3-years-on-growth.html
The yen fell for a sixth week
against the dollar, its longest losing streak in three years, as
faster U.S. economic growth boosted Treasury yields and the Bank
of Japan indicated plans for further stimulus.  The dollar rose against most of its major peers after the
 Federal Reserve  said labor-market conditions “have improved
further,” diminishing forecasts for further stimulus.  Norway ’s
krone dropped against its major counterparts after the central
bank unexpectedly cut interest rates. U.S. housing data next
week may further underpin a strengthening recovery scenario.  “The impetus from dollar-yen strength has come from the
Treasuries market,” said Ray Attrill, a senior currency
strategist at BNP Paribas SA in New York. “You had quite an
explosive selloff in Treasuries, but, at the same time, the
economic news has remained good and risk sentiment has remained
positive.”  The yen dropped 1.2 percent to 83.43 per dollar in the five
days ended March 16 in New York. The six-week losing streak
matches one ended March 2009. The Japanese currency fell 1.6
percent against the euro to 109.95 yen. The shared currency
added 0.4 percent to $1.3175.  Futures Positions  Japan ’s currency slid 5.6 percent during the past month in
the worst performance among the 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
appreciated 0.4 percent, and the euro advanced 0.8 percent.  Futures traders increased their bets that the yen will
decline against the  U.S. dollar . The difference in the number of
wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on a decline
in the yen compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts
-- was 42,380 on March 13, compared with net shorts of 19,358 a
week earlier, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission show.  The yen reached its weakest level in almost 11 months
versus the dollar after  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
indicated on March 13 that the central bank will keep using
monetary policy as a tool to tackle deflation.  The Japanese currency rebounded in the final two days of
the week as investors wagered the largest four-day decline since
November had happened too quickly and core inflation and
 consumer confidence  in the U.S. were weaker than expected.  Reversal Data  The 14-day relative strength index for the yen against the
dollar shows that even after gains in the past two days, the
Japanese currency remains oversold. The measure reached 27.8
yesterday, below the 30-level that traders see as a sign that an
asset may change direction.  The  extra yield  investors receive for holding two-year
Treasuries instead of Japanese debt widened to 24 basis points,
or 0.24 percentage point, the most since July 28, increasing the
attractiveness of dollar assets. There is a “relatively high”
correlation between the two-year spread and the dollar-yen
 exchange rate , Bank of Japan Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has
said.  The  yield  on the 10-year Treasury note increased for eight
straight days in the longest streak since 2006. It touched 2.36
percent yesterday, the highest level since Oct. 28.  “The focus of the  currency market  has shifted away from
equities to fixed income as the primary metric of movement,”
said Boris Schlossberg, director of research at online currency
trader GFT Forex in New York.  Dollar Measure  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners, touched an eight-week high of 80.738 on March
15. It fell 0.3 percent this week.  ICE reported record daily volume on March 14 in the  Dollar
Index . Contracts traded reached 82,689, with a notional value of
more than $6.6 billion. That compares with the average daily in
February of 29,073 contracts and the previous volume record of
81,814 set in June 2011.  Fed policy makers raised their assessment of the economy as
the labor market gathered strength, and refrained from
additional steps to lower borrowing costs, reducing expectations
of further stimulus measures that would debase the currency.  Housing starts  and existing and new home sales may show
that the market expanded last month. Housing starts rose by 0.1
percent in February, the second consecutive increase in the
Commerce Department data, according to a Bloomberg News Survey.
Other surveys show an increase in existing home sales of 0.7
percent and that new home sales advanced by 1.3 percent.  Economic Data  The dollar pared weekly gains against most its major
counterparts after a report yesterday showed a gauge of consumer
prices excluding food and energy rose less than forecast.  The U.S. consumer-price index climbed 0.4 percent, matching
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
the Labor Department reported yesterday in  Washington . The  core
measure , which excludes more volatile food and energy costs,
climbed 0.1 percent, less than projected.  “If we’d had a surprise to the upside, people would have
felt more convicted in paring back easing expectations and then
it comes in a little soft on core CPI and people may worry
they’ve gotten ahead of themselves,” said Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities
unit in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  Norway’s krone dropped to a five-week low of 5.8393 versus
the dollar March 15 as policy makers unexpectedly lowered
 interest rates  on March 14. The Scandinavian currency fell 0.5
percent this week.  Norges Bank  The central bank reduced interest rates 0.25 percentage
point to 1.5 percent as the bank has stepped up its efforts to
contain the commodity-backed krone’s ascent after it touched a
nine-year high this month. Norges Bank was forecast leave its
 benchmark rate  at 1.75 percent, according to 14 of 16 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Norway’s central bank Governor Oeystein Olsen said
investors should be aware that the krone may weaken and that
it’s a riskier investment than the Swiss franc.  “At some point there is a risk for investors that the krone
weakens,” Olsen said in an interview in Oslo yesterday.  The Swiss currency rose 0.4 percent to 91.56 centimes per
dollar.  Switzerland ’s franc gained after the central bank predicted
the economy will expand 1 percent this year, twice as much as
its previous estimate. Policy makers led by interim Chairman
Thomas Jordan, maintained their ceiling for the currency at 1.20
francs per euro, and pledged to defend the cap with their
“utmost determination.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  