-- H&M Says Garments Made in Cambodian Factory Without Approval
-- B y   K a t a r i n a   G u s t a f s s o n
-- 2013-05-22T13:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/h-m-says-garments-made-in-cambodian-factory-without-approval.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB) , Europe’s second-biggest clothing retailer, said some H&M garments were produced
without its knowledge or approval at a factory in Cambodia where
workers were injured in a partial building collapse this week.  A supplier of the Stockholm-based company placed two minor
orders with an unapproved sub-supplier at the Hong Kong-owned
Top World garment factory, H&M spokeswoman Anna Eriksson said
today in an e-mailed response to questions. She said H&M has no
business relations with the plant, where a shelter collapsed
into a river injuring at least 23 people, according to Xinhua.  Concern has risen over worker safety in Asian apparel
factories after the collapse of a garment factory in  Bangladesh 
last month, considered one of the world’s worst industrial
disasters. The May 20 incident in Cambodia is the second in the
space of seven days after a shoe factory crumpled last week,
killing at least two and injuring five, Xinhua reported.  “We have a clear policy that all production has to take
place in units approved by H&M, this is not acceptable,”
Eriksson said of the unapproved orders. H&M, vendor of $5.95
tube tops and $12.95 ballet flats, has met with the company that
placed the orders and visited the factory, though it’s too early
to say what action will be taken against the supplier, she said.  “As a first step we demand our supplier to fulfil their
responsibility for the affected textile workers, which the
supplier has agreed to do,” Eriksson said.  H&M isn’t the first retailer to discover its products are
made in factories that escape its scrutiny as suppliers hire
subcontractors without their knowledge when rushing to fill
orders. When clothing bound for  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Sears
Holdings Corp. was found in the ruins of a fatal factory blaze
in Bangladesh last year, the companies said their goods were
manufactured there without their permission.  H&M has had experiences with unapproved factories in the
past and “clearly acted on those cases,” Eriksson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarina Gustafsson in Stockholm at 
 kgustafsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  