-- T. Rowe Price Says Dubai, Qatar Deserve MSCI Upgrade to Emerging
-- B y   S h e r i n e   E l   M a d a n y
-- 2013-05-22T10:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/t-rowe-price-says-dubai-qatar-deserve-msci-upgrade-to-emerging.html
Dubai and Qatar deserve to be
upgraded to emerging-market status at  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  next month,  T.
Rowe Price (TROW)  Group Inc. said, after the emirates failed to satisfy
the index provider’s requirements for four years.  “I see no reason why they shouldn’t be upgraded and don’t
understand why they haven’t been previously,”  Oliver Bell ,
London-based money manager at T. Rowe Price’s  Africa & Middle
East Fund, (TRAMX)  said by e-mail yesterday. “Both Dubai and Qatar are
in a better position and meet more of the criteria than other
countries that have been upgraded before.”  Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, which has bourses in
Dubai and Abu Dhabi, are under consideration for a possible
reclassification from their frontier-market rankings for the
fifth year. MSCI, whose gauges are tracked by investors managing
about $7 trillion, in 2012 said that foreign ownership limits in
Qatar and operational frameworks in the U.A.E. needed revising.  Most companies in Qatar cap overseas holdings at 25
percent. Industries Qatar, the petrochemicals company with the
second-heaviest weighting on Qatar’s bourse, raised its foreign
ownership limit in September to 12.25 percent from 7.5 percent.
The shares have surged 29 percent since the end of that month.
Robert Ansari, Dubai-based executive director at MSCI, was not
immediately available for comment when contacted by  Bloomberg
News  yesterday.  Tourism Recovery  New York-based MSCI tracks economic development, trading
volumes and market accessibility to assess market
classifications. The decision on the U.A.E. and Qatar will be
made as part of its annual market classification review on June
11, it said in a statement  earlier this month . MSCI classifies
seven bourses in the Gulf Cooperation Council as frontier
markets.  An upgrade of the U.A.E.’s $150 billion stock markets will
probably draw more investors as fund managers buy their shares
to mirror MSCI’s indexes. The Persian Gulf nation in 2011
started so-called delivery-versus-payment, a securities industry
procedure in which payment for a security must be made upon
delivery, as it sought to secure an upgrade.  Dubai’s benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  has surged 43 percent
in 2013, making it the best-performing equity gauge in the
 Middle East  and North Africa, as a tourism and real estate
recovery helped boost corporate earnings.  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX
General Index (ADSMI)  has advanced 33 percent in the period.  The gains compare with a decline of 0.6 percent for the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index, and an increase of 8.7 percent for
Qatar’s QE Index. Companies in Dubai’s DFM gauge are valued at
an average  0.9 times net assets , or book value, while multiples
on the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and Qatar’s QE Index are 1.6
times each, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherine El Madany in Dubai at 
 selmadany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  