-- Maersk to Extend Cost Cuts as European Imports Founder
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-23T08:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/maersk-to-extend-cost-cuts-as-european-imports-founder-freight.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  Chief
Executive Officer Nils Smedegaard Andersen said he’ll be forced
to prolong cost cuts at the world’s biggest container line as a
policy of capacity restraint fails to lift shipping rates.  The company’s Maersk Line unit is seeking new ways to slim
expenses even after a 7.1 percent reduction in the first quarter
put the Copenhagen-based company on a more competitive footing
than most of its rivals, Andersen said in an interview.  While resurgent U.S. demand should buoy volumes on North
Pacific sailings, Andersen said there’s little sign of a revival
on key routes transporting Asian-made consumer goods to markets
in Europe. That makes cost cuts vital if Maersk is to deliver on
its target of boosting net income this year even after last week
halving its estimate for global container-volume growth.  “We will have to accept that for as long as there’s
overcapacity, there will be price wars,” Andersen said in an
interview in Copenhagen. “All we can do is shrug our shoulders
and focus on making Maersk Line as competitive as possible, on
cutting costs and on nurturing customer relations.”  The Shanghai Containerized Freight Index, which measures
the cost of shipping boxes from  China , the No. 1 export nation,
has fallen for nine consecutive weeks as companies cut rates.  Trading Lower  Shares of A.P. Moeller-Maersk, which controls 15 percent of
the container-market by capacity via Maersk Line, fell as much
as 3.4 percent today, the most since April 12, and were trading
2.9 percent lower at 41,240 kroner as of 10:01 a.m. local time.  The stock has lost 24 percent since the end of 2007,
valuing the company at 177 billion kroner ($31 billion), during
which time the Stoxx Europe 600 Index has declined 16 percent.  Industry No. 2 Mediterranean Shipping Co. of Geneva, with a
13.5 percent market share, and No. 3 Marseille-based CMA CGM SA,
with 8.5 percent, based on  Alphaliner  data, are closely held.  Maersk Line’s parent was yesterday  downgraded  to hold from
buy by analyst Robin Byde at Cantor Fitzgerald in  London . Byde
said that as rates fall the shipping unit’s cost advantage won’t
be enough to sustain gains that saw it post first-quarter net
income of $204 million even as most peers lost money.  Drewry  Maritime Equity Research said last week that rate
volatility “will be a defining feature of the decade.”  Supply is exceeding demand for a fifth straight year, and
the consultant forecasts the global container fleet will expand
a further 7.5 percent in 2013, far exceeding demand growth of
4.5 percent and putting renewed downward pressure on prices.  Declining Workforce  Maersk’s view is even bleaker, with the company forecasting
growth as low as 2 percent for the year in its latest results
presentation on May 17, down from 4 percent previously.  While Andersen cites Europe as “dragging down the global
economy,” he said the widening gulf between supply and demand
reflects a failure to curb capacity that will prompt a further
fall in container rates that are already below break-even for
the industry as a whole.  “Cost improvements will compensate for the setback
everyone will suffer during a price war,” Andersen added,
declining to say whether Maersk will fire workers. “Cutting
costs and making costs stay low is an ongoing exercise that
isn’t stopping.”  Maersk Line scrapped about 3,000 jobs under the Streamline
restructuring plan introduced in 2008 after the credit crunch
and global recession sent demand tumbling. More posts have gone
since, including 400 last year, 250 of them in Copenhagen, and
it now employs about 25,000 people, 7,000 of them seafarers.  Triple-E  Maersk has also pared expenses by operating ships at lower,
more fuel-efficient speeds, known as slow-steaming. Its vessels
typically sail at 16-18 knots, compared with 20 knots in 2008,
and the practice has become standard across the industry.  Parent A.P. Moeller-Maersk, which also owns an oil
exploration unit and a drilling division, has additionally used
its financial strength to invest in more cost-efficient ships.  The 20 Triple-E vessels, the first of which will be handed
over next month, will be the biggest afloat and carry 18,000
containers while consuming about 35 percent less fuel per box
than the 13,100-capacity ships operated by rivals, Maersk says.  The 400-meter (1,312-foot) craft able to carry 18 million
flat-screen televisions were ordered at a cost of $3.8 billion
in 2011, marking Maersk’s first ship purchase since 2008, as
double-digit growth in container volumes the previous year
seemed to indicate the end of the cargo slump.  Replacement Plan  Maersk says it’s happy to be taking the ships from South
Korea’s  Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. (042660) , but has
abandoned plans to establish two fleets of 10 Triple-Es to lift
capacity and will instead use the first 12 to replace older
vessels on an existing service linking Shanghai and Rotterdam.  While Andersen said that the U.S. economy is “moving in
the right direction,” the Triple-E is too large to navigate the
Panama Canal and therefore ill-suited to trans-Pacific use, and
the last eight are also likely to displace older craft in the
absence of a strong rebound in Asia-Europe traffic.  Andersen said cost cuts can only take companies so far, and
that Maersk itself won’t be able sustain the pace of its first-quarter reduction, meaning capacity discipline remains the only
step able to delivery enduring stability in the current climate.  “In the past, price wars only reduced profits,” he said.
“Now they are causing losses. There has to be a strong push
from the industry to restore rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  