-- AirAsia Quarterly Profit Falls on Fuel, Finance Expenses
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   B a r r y   P o r t e r
-- 2013-05-23T01:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/airasia-quarterly-profit-falls-on-fuel-finance-expenses.html
AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest
budget carrier, reported its first drop in profit in five
quarters as higher fuel and finance costs eroded gains from
carrying more passengers.  Net income  fell 39 percent to 104.8 million ringgit ($35
million) in the three months ended March 31, the Sepang,
Malaysia-based airline said in a statement yesterday. Revenue
climbed 11 percent to 1.30 billion ringgit.  AirAsia, competing with Lion Air and Jetstar for budget
travelers in the region, declined the most in a week in Kuala
Lumpur trading. Group Chief Executive Officer Tony Fernandes
said the carrier has potential for “double digit” growth this
year as AirAsia expands to India and increased its bet in the
 Philippines  with a 49 percent stake in Zest Airways Inc.  The airline  fell as much as 1.5 percent to 3.19 ringgit in
Kuala Lumpur trading, and changed hands at 3.22 ringgit as of
9:45 a.m. The stock has jumped 25 percent this year,
outperforming a 5.7 percent gain in the benchmark FTSE Bursa
Malaysia KLCI Index.  The carrier said jet fuel costs rose 18 percent in the
quarter to 523 million ringgit, while aircraft lease expense
climbed 11 percent to 44.7 million ringgit. AirAsia also had a
foreign exchange loss of 37.7 million ringgit on its borrowings,
compared with a gain of 88 million ringgit a year earlier.  India Venture  Such expenses eroded gains from carrying more passengers
and charging higher fares. AirAsia’s passenger numbers rose 7
percent to 5.2 million in the period, and average fares
increased by 2 percent, according to the statement.  The group is awaiting approval and hopes to start
operations in  India  in the fourth quarter, Fernandes said in an
interview today. The India unit, being set up in partnership
with the Tata Group, will help AirAsia tap into a region that
 International Air Transport Association  expects to become the
world’s fastest-growing aviation market after Kazakhstan by 2016.  In March, AirAsia acquired the stake in Zest in the
Philippines. The airline is expanding as the entry of Singapore
Air’s Scoot and PT Lion Mentari Airlines’ Malaysian venture
Malindo Airways boosts competition in the region.  AirAsia is also expanding its fleet. In December, the
airline ordered 100 Airbus A320s valued at $9.4 billion, in
addition to the 200 it had agreed in 2011 to purchase.  Airbus Planes  The group currently has 124 Airbus A320 aircraft in its
fleet, compared with 118 at the end of 2012. While capacity went
up by 9 percent in the first quarter, the carrier filled 79
percent of its seats, down by one percentage points.  The group’s long-haul arm AirAsia X Bhd. is aiming to raise
as much as $300 million through a Malaysian initial public
offering. The five year-old airline plans to offer 790.1 million
shares to raise between $250 million and $300 million to help
finance aircraft purchase.  The share sale is the second of the three proposed listings
by AirAsia’s affiliates.  Asia Aviation Pcl (AAV) , the parent of Thai
AirAsia Co., was the group’s first affiliate airline to sell
shares, debuting in Bangkok’s stock exchange last year. Its
Indonesian unit will also go public in the third quarter,
Fernandes said in February.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net ;
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  