-- Airlines May Delay Emissions Measure for Extra Year: ICAO
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-05-24T21:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/airlines-may-delay-emissions-measure-for-extra-year-icao-says.html
(Corrects headline of story published May 22 to say
 airline industry  may escape emissions standard for another year.
Clarifies fourth paragraph to say ICAO aims to reduce emissions
from aviation and adds word metric instead of measure in the
fifth.)  Airline industry agreement on a
standard measure of aircraft greenhouse-gas emissions may be
delayed at least a year for more research, according to the
 International Civil Aviation Organization .  ICAO’s Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection
proposed using a plane’s maximum take-off weight, or MTOW, to
help gauge aircraft emissions and efficiency, the Montreal-based
regulatory body  said in July . The ICAO council was expected to
approve the system this year, it said at the time.  “Standards, not to mention the broad consensus which
effective ones require, take time to develop,” Anthony Philbin,
a spokesman for ICAO in  Montreal , said yesterday by e-mail.
“The present timetable looks to it being more fully resolved by
end-2014 or possibly sometime in 2015.”  The United Nations-overseen body is seeking to reduce
emissions from aviation. The European Union broadened its carbon
market to cover airlines in January 2012.  Europe  can replace its
aviation targets with a global measure as long as it’s as
stringent as the EU’s,  Connie Hedegaard , the bloc’s climate
chief, said in February 2012.  Critics of ICAO’s metric include Dimitri Simos, founder of
aeronautics software company  Lissys Ltd.  in Woodhouse Eaves,
 England , who argues it should include an aircraft’s empty weight
rather than the more theoretical MTOW.  “It was flawed at its heart” because it’s an incomplete
picture of aircraft emissions, said Simos, whose clients have
included Boeing Co. and Airbus SAS. A more stringent metric
would stop airlines from “getting away with things that may be
commercially beneficial but are bad for the environment” such
as using inefficient aircraft, he said.  Lissys’s Piano software has been approved under ICAO’s
models for determining aircraft fuel burn.  The airline regulator’s standard is still in a research-and-development stage and criticism is premature, Philbin said.
ICAO called the metric a “major move forward” in July.  “ICAO has no comment on the supposed positions of any
industry operators or manufacturers who may be assisting in this
process,” Philbin said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  