-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Gain a Third Day Before Bernanke Speech
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-05-22T08:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/taiwan-dollar-forwards-gain-a-third-day-before-bernanke-speech.html
Taiwan dollar forwards rose for a
third day on speculation Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke will signal the need to sustain stimulus policies that
have spurred fund flows into  emerging markets .  Bernanke is due to address Congress today and the Federal
Open Market Committee is scheduled to release minutes of its
last meeting. Fed Bank of St. Louis President James Bullard said
yesterday the monetary authority should continue its bond-buying
because it’s the best option to boost economic growth. The U.S.
central bank has been purchasing $85 billion of debt a month.
Overseas investors bought $179 million more of the island’s
stocks than they sold today, taking inflows this year to $5.1
billion, exchange data show.  “There’s a bit of uncertainty before Bernanke speaks
tonight,” said Suan Teck Kin, an economist at  United Overseas
Bank Ltd. (UOB)  in Singapore. “There are some position adjustments
that contributed to Taiwan dollar strengthening.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards for the Taiwan dollar
advanced 0.1 percent to NT$29.835 versus the greenback as of
4:32 p.m. in Taipei, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The contracts touched NT$29.765 yesterday, the strongest level
since May 13.  The Taiwan dollar weakened 0.1 percent to NT$29.96 against
its U.S. counterpart after being 0.5 percent stronger shortly
before the close, based on prices from Taipei Forex Inc. The
central bank has sold the currency in the runup to the close on
most days in the past year, according to traders who asked not
to be identified.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, fell 18 basis points,
or 0.18 percentage point, to 4.54 percent.  The yield on the 1.125 percent government bonds due March
2023 was little changed at 1.287 percent, according to Gretai
Securities Market. The  overnight interbank lending rate  was
steady at 0.386 percent, according to the Taiwan Interbank Money
Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  