-- Taiwan Curbs Bullish Currency Bets as Yen Threatens Exports
-- B y   C h i n m e i   S u n g   a n d   A r g i n   C h a n g
-- 2013-05-23T04:55:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/taiwan-said-to-curb-bullish-currency-bets-as-yen-hits-2008-low.html
Taiwan , seeking to rein in the local
dollar and boost export competitiveness, tightened limits on
domestic banks’ bullish bets on the currency following the yen’s
tumble to the lowest level since 2008.  The Central Bank of the  Republic of China  (Taiwan) reduced
the daily cap on the net  U.S. dollar  short position that can be
held by each bank to $5 million from $10 million, according to
Spencer Lin, director general of foreign exchange. The rule,
which aims to “stabilize” the  Taiwan dollar , comes into effect
today, he said in a phone interview. A short position in the
greenback is a bet on depreciation against the local currency
and traders were informed of the clampdown yesterday.  The island’s electronics exporters are struggling to
compete against Japanese rivals including Sony Corp. after the
local dollar strengthened 22 percent to a five-year high versus
the yen in the past six months. Gross domestic product increased
in the first quarter at less than half the pace economists
estimated, putting pressure on policy makers to weaken the
currency to protect overseas sales.  “It’s very apparent that the central bank wants to send
the local currency lower,” said  Frances Cheung , a strategist at
Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong . “The Taiwan dollar has been
depreciating against the greenback lately, but the yen
depreciates even more. The purpose is to keep Taiwan’s goods
competitive in overseas trade.”  Taiwan is seeking to support overseas  shipments  that
slumped 1.9 percent in April after the yen slid 20 percent
against the greenback in the past six months and touched 103.74
per dollar yesterday, its weakest level since October 2008. The
island’s currency fell 2.7 percent in the same period.  Taiwan Dollar  The Taiwan dollar rose 0.3 percent to NT$29.952 versus the
greenback at the lunch break in Taipei. It erased a 0.5 percent
advance in the final two minutes of trading yesterday on
suspected intervention. The central bank has sold the local
currency toward the close on most days for more than a year,
according to traders who asked not to be identified.  One-month non-deliverable forwards for the Taiwan dollar
fell 0.3 percent to NT$29.995 versus the greenback, the biggest
loss in a week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, increased 18 basis points,
or 0.18 percentage point, to 4.71 percent.  Yen Weakness  Taiwan’s benchmark Taiex index fell 1.7 percent to
8,257.73, heading for the biggest drop since April 8 and the
worst performance among  emerging markets  in  Asia . Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., which exports chips to clients
including  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , slid 3.1 percent. Hon Hai Precision
Industry Co., a supplier of Apple Inc., lost 1.5 percent.  Japan ’s currency declined versus 13 of its 16 major peers
yesterday after  Bank of Japan  policy makers affirmed a plan to
double the monetary base over two years. South Korean Finance
Minister Hyun Oh Seok said today the yen’s decline is causing
difficulties for the nation’s exporters. The won has
strengthened 21 percent versus the yen in the past six months.  Taiwan’s GDP rose 1.54 percent in the three months ended
March from a year earlier, after increasing 3.72 percent in the
fourth quarter, official data show. The gain was less than all
17 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of economists, who had a
median projection of 3.1 percent. Last year’s 1.3 percent annual
growth rate was the slowest since a 1.9 percent contraction in
2009.  Overseas demand for the island’s products remains weak.
 Export orders , indicative of shipments in the next one to three
months, slumped 1.1 percent in April from a year earlier,
declining for a third straight month.  HTC Corp. (2498) , Taiwan’s
largest maker of smartphones, posted its lowest quarterly profit
on record in April.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Argin Chang in Taipei at 
 achang153@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  