-- Altice Said to Be in Talks With Oni Shareholders to Buy Company
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-05-22T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/altice-said-to-be-in-talks-with-oni-shareholders-to-buy-company.html
Altice, an  investment company  with a
stake in French cable operator Numericable, is in talks with Oni
Communications shareholders to buy the telecommunications
company, two people familiar with the matter said.  Altice is bidding less than 100 million euros ($129
million) for Oni, including debt, the people said, asking not to
be identified because the talks are private. The Riverside
Company, which owns 60.9 percent of Oni, and Gestmin SGPS SA,
which has about a third, are discussing the offer with
Luxembourg-based Altice, the people said.  “Oni shareholders have received many demonstrations of
interest in the company,” Oni said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday from press representatives at Lift Consulting. “Since
there is no change to the current situation of the company, we
continue to focus fully on the development of our strategy.”  Oni, based in Lisbon, is one of the smallest
telecommunications players in  Portugal  and competes against
Portugal Telecom SGPS SA, Zon Multimedia SGPS SA, Sonaecom SGPS
SA and  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s unit in the country. It provides
voice, data and Internet services to companies and the
 Portuguese government , including the  Finance Ministry , according
to its website.  Officials at Altice’s Luxembourg office weren’t immediately
available and Monica Chase, an investor relations director at
The Riverside Company, and Gestmin Chairman Manuel Champalimaud
didn’t immediately return calls to their offices for comment.  Altice owns cable operator Cabovisao-Televisao Por Cabo SA
in Portugal and may be interested in merging Oni with its cable
unit, one of the people said. Altice bought Cabovisao last year
for 45 million euros from  Cogeco Cable Inc. (CCA) , which paid 465
million euros for the Portuguese company in 2006.  The people declined to provide details on Altice’s offer
for Oni. Disagreements between Oni’s two biggest shareholders
were delaying a possible deal with Altice, Portuguese news
agency Lusa said May 17, citing unidentified sources.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  