-- Amaranth Hit Death Spiral as Sycophants, Fools Cavorted
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2013-05-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/amaranth-hit-death-spiral-as-sycophants-fools-cavorted.html
In September 2006, Greenwich,
Connecticut-based hedge fund Amaranth Advisors LLC collapsed
after losing more than $6 billion in the natural-gas futures
market. In “ Hedge Hogs ,” Barbara T. Dreyfuss tells the story
of the math-whiz traders whose risky dance with deregulation led
to the collapse.  The star of Dreyfuss’s distressing tale is  Brian Hunter ,
the Amaranth celebrity described by sycophants at the now-defunct Trader Monthly magazine as a top dog among a crop of
“red-hot traders.”  Dreyfuss, a former securities analyst, rehashes a lot that
we know about Hunter’s antics. And despite admirable efforts to
explain the arcana of futures trading, she may lose the lay
reader when illustrating the Amaranth drama with details of
widening or narrowing trading spreads.  But she does a great job of putting Amaranth’s out-of-control trader into historical context, explaining the blitz of
deregulation that set the stage for someone like Hunter to do
maximum damage.  Dreyfuss also captures the juvenile culture of trading
luminaries who battle like enemies in some twisted fantasy.
Hunter and futures trader  John Arnold , founder of the hedge fund
Centaurus Advisors LLC, fight each other in trading duels more
suited to the video game Halo than real life.  Destroy Someone  “‘If you want to succeed and make money, you want to
destroy someone else,’ a trader tells  Dreyfuss . “‘That’s just
how it works. If I want to be successful in this industry, I’m
going to want to destroy five guys.’”  Armed with degrees in physics and mathematics, Hunter
started trading natural-gas futures at TransCanada Corp. in his
native Calgary in 1998. He left for  Deutsche Bank (DB) ’s  New York 
headquarters in 2001, where he worked in the global commodities
markets division. By the time he left Deutsche Bank for Amaranth
two-and-a-half years later, he’d been demoted by a supervisor
who would say later in a deposition that Hunter couldn’t be
trusted to “do the right thing for the bank.”  As is to be expected in the world Dreyfuss is describing,
Hunter was “quickly scooped up” by Amaranth despite that rocky
ending with Deutsche Bank.  A year later, he parlayed an offer from SAC Capital
Advisors’s  Steven Cohen  into a sweetened deal to stay at
Amaranth. Money was a factor in the new agreement, but not the
only one.  No Oversight  Hunter demanded that he be allowed to move from Amaranth’s
Connecticut headquarters to Calgary. He also wanted to be free
from the oversight of a former Enron Corp. trader named Harry Arora who’d been keeping tabs on him. The star got what he
wanted.  Arora later quit, warning on his way out that Hunter
“could blow up the entire firm.”  By spring 2006, clients were seeing red flags in the sudden
massive gains in Amaranth’s energy portfolio -- up $1 billion in
April. What goes up in a dramatic spike, those clients correctly
figured, must come down.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the New York investment-management firm,
was concerned enough that it paid a penalty to bail out. After
that, Hunter’s bosses began making the first of several unheeded
requests that he cut back on his positions. In May, Amaranth
lost more than $1.1 billion, and a death spiral was in full
force.  The book describes traders who manipulate markets and
eviscerate pension-fund portfolios but don’t have a clue about
the destructive roles they play.  In June 2006, when Amaranth was on its slide to oblivion,
the clearly out-of-control Hunter observed to a colleague that
other people in the markets “were getting out of control.” In
another exchange, a trader who works with Hunter refers to the
“fricken deviant market.”  It becomes clear to the reader pretty quickly who the
deviants are here. Hint: They do not include “the market.”  “Hedge Hogs: The Cowboy Traders Behind  Wall Street ’s
Largest Hedge Fund Disaster” is published by  Random House  (285
pages, $28). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  ( Susan Antilla  writes for Bloomberg Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . She is the author of “Tales
From the Boom Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment on
Wall Street. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on dining and  Lili
Rosboch  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Susan Antilla in New York at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 