-- Tanzania Cotton Output May Drop 30% as Prices Discourage Growers
-- B y   S a r a   J e r v i n g
-- 2013-05-22T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/tanzania-cotton-output-may-drop-30-as-prices-discourage-growers.html
Cotton output in Tanzania,  Africa ’s
fourth-biggest producer of the fiber, may drop 30 percent this
year after lower prices discouraged growers and pesticide
distribution was curbed, the Tanzania Cotton Board said.  Output may decline from the 354,000 metric tons produced
the previous season, Gabriel Mwalo, the board’s director of
finance and administration, said in an interview yesterday in
Dar es Salaam, the commercial capital. Plantings have been cut
to 1.1 million hectares (2.7 million acres) this growing period,
from 1.4 million hectares last year, he said.  “International prices for cotton have fallen, pushing some
farmers to food crops,” Mwalo said. “Farmers also received
less inputs this season, most notably pesticides, because of
challenges with the contract-farming system,” which has been
suspended, he said.  Cotton futures were the second worst-performing commodity
last year on the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw
materials, tumbling 18 percent on ICE Futures U.S. in New York
as global inventories swelled. Tanzania ranks behind  Mali ,
Burkina Faso and  Egypt  as Africa’s largest grower of cotton,
according to the Food and Agricultural Organization.  Tanzanian cotton production surged 57 percent last year
from 225,000 tons produced in 2011, helped by the introduction
of contract farming across the country following a three-year
pilot program in the northwestern Mara region.  Under the system, farmers agreed with buyers to supply
specific quantities and qualities of the crop, and farmers
gained access to credit for inputs such as pesticides, Mwalo
said. That eliminated the need for agents and local lenders to
facilitate relationships between growers and buyers, he said.  Loan Defaults  Resistance by lenders and agents to contract farming led to
the program’s suspension in order for the industry to “iron out
the challenges,” Mwalo said.  About a quarter of all loans in Tanzania go to the
agriculture industry, with about 10 percent going to cotton
farmers, according to Lawrence Mafuru, former managing director
of National Bank of Commerce Ltd., the Tanzanian lender owned by
South Africa’s Absa Group Ltd. Impairments at Tanzanian banks
grew last year because of the failure by borrowers to repay
debts as cotton prices fell, he said in December.  As a result of the suspension of contract farming,
Tanzania’s Cotton Development Trust Fund cut the amount of
pesticide distributed to farmers to enough packs to cover 1.1
million acres, compared with 3.6 million acres last year, he
said. No alternative arrangements have been made for pesticide
distribution in the absence of the program, Mwalo said.  Contractors  Tanzania has more than 40 ginning companies, including S.M.
Holdings Ltd., Alliance Ginneries Ltd., Birchand Oil Mill Ltd.,
Afrisian Ginning Ltd. and Gaki Investment Co.  Tanzania’s cotton-planting season begins in October and
ends in January, while harvesting takes place from June to
December. The East African nation exports about 70 percent of
its output and the rest supplies domestic textile factories,
Mwalo said.  While most of the country’s cotton is grown in western
regions, the industry board plans to encourage sowing in the
east, which currently accounts for about 1 percent of total
production, according to Mwalo. About 46 of Tanzania’s districts
are involved in cotton production and as many as 500,000 farmers
are engaged in farming the cash crop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Jerving in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 