-- Apollo Beats KKR to Carlyle After Rally: Riskless Return
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-05-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/apollo-beats-kkr-to-carlyle-after-rally-riskless-return.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  is the
top-performing stock among publicly traded alternative-asset
managers as Chief Executive Officer  Leon Black  demonstrates that
reaping gains from buyout holdings while raising new investment
funds is the key to pleasing stockholders.  Shares of New York-based Apollo, the third-biggest private-equity firm in the U.S. by assets, almost tripled in the year
ended May 21, giving it a risk-adjusted return of 5.4 percent,
the best among 12 global buyout, hedge fund and real-estate
investment firms in the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING.
 Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the Washington-based buyout firm that went
public last year, ranked near the bottom, while  3i Group Plc (III) 
rose the most after Apollo.  Apollo, founded 23 years ago by Black and two deal makers
at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc., is exiting a series of
profitable investments including chemical maker  LyondellBasell
Industries NV (LYB)  and has generated $14 billion in proceeds over the
past four quarters from selling holdings in its funds, President
Marc Spilker said this month. Apollo is also gathering fresh
cash for one of the biggest buyout funds since the U.S.
financial crisis, targeting $12 billion.  “Apollo has aggressively entered harvesting mode and
you’re seeing shareholders reap the benefits,” said  Howard Chen , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG who rates the shares
“outperform,” an expectation that the stock will rise more
than broader markets. Apollo is selling holdings in older as
well as newer funds and “that provides us some sense of
sustainability,” said Chen.  Beating Benchmarks  Shares of all but one of the alternative-investment firms
in the ranking beat the U.S. market in the past year as the
stock rally lifted the value of fund holdings and increased the
portion of investment profits allocated to the firms. The worst
performer in the ranking, Brookfield Asset Management Inc.,
returned 30 percent on an absolute basis in the year ended May
21, matching the gain, including reinvested dividends, of the
 Standard & Poor’s  500  index  of large U.S. stocks.  Alternative-asset manager stocks have been more volatile
than those of traditional money managers because earnings from
overseeing buyout and hedge funds can be unpredictable and
shareholders have struggled to understand their business models.
That’s changing as investors are getting a better understanding
of the alternatives managers’ businesses and earnings metrics,
said Credit Suisse’s Chen.  “It takes time for investor mindshare and knowledge to
fully develop,” Chen said. “That’s what we’re going through
now.”  Average Volatility  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. Higher volatility means the price of an asset can swing
dramatically in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected losses.  The 12 managers in the Bloomberg ranking had average
volatility of 28.1, compared with 19.1 for the Standard & Poor’s
index of asset managers and custody banks, which includes
Franklin Resources Inc., the manager of the Franklin and
Templeton mutual funds, and BlackRock Inc., which manages mutual
funds, institutional accounts and the iShares exchange-traded
funds.  Apollo, which oversees $114 billion in strategies including
corporate buyouts, real estate and credit, beat competitors
because of its highest absolute return of 167 percent despite
having the fifth-highest volatility in the group.  Fortress, 3i  Apollo’s return beat the 126 percent absolute gain by 3i
Group, Britain’s biggest publicly traded private-equity firm,
which ranked second with a risk-adjusted return of 5.2 percent.  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG)  ranked third with a risk-adjusted return of 4.4 percent.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s 4 percent
return after adjusting for volatility earned it fourth place in
the ranking, and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  was fifth with a 3.9 percent risk-adjusted return.  Brookfield, the Toronto-based manager with a focus on
investing in property and infrastructure deals, was the worst
performer with a risk-adjusted return of 1.6 percent. Carlyle,
the second-biggest U.S. alternatives manager behind Blackstone,
was the second-worst, with a return after volatility of 1.8
percent.  Charles Zehren , a spokesman for Apollo at Rubenstein
Associates, declined to comment; as did Gordon Runte, a
spokesman for Fortress; Andy Willis, a spokesman for Brookfield;
and Randall Whitestone, a spokesman for Carlyle.  Buyout Model  Most of the companies in the ranking, including Apollo,
Blackstone, Carlyle and KKR, initially formed as pure private-equity firms. Such groups pool money from investors such as
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years.  Private-equity and hedge funds typically keep 20 percent of
profits from investments as a so-called carried interest, on top
of an annual management fee of 1.5 percent to 2 percent to cover
expenses. Traditional asset-management firms, which offer
products such as mutual funds and exchange-traded funds, get
most of their income from management fees, making their earnings
more stable.  Diversifying Businesses  As the private-equity firms started going public, they
diversified their businesses beyond leveraged buyouts,
introducing new funds to manage assets that, together, would
produce larger and steadier streams of income. Blackstone, the
largest alternative-asset manager with $218 billion, completed
its initial public offering in 2007. The New York-based firm,
led by  Stephen Schwarzman , offers  funds  that invest in LBOs,
real estate, hedge funds and credit, as well as pools that use a
blend of those strategies.  “All of these firms, including Apollo, have done a lot to
diversify their businesses or to position themselves to grow
assets on a more sustainable basis,” said Marc Irizarry, an
analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “The market is giving them
some credit for that.”  Apollo on May 6 said fee-earning assets under management
rose to $81.6 billion in the first quarter, up 37 percent from
the year-earlier period. First-quarter economic net income after
taxes, a measure of profit excluding some compensation costs
tied to the firm’s 2011 IPO, increased 76 percent to $741
million, or $1.89 a share, topping the $1.23 average estimate of
11 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Apollo’s Exits  Apollo’s cash earnings were driven by the firm’s heavy exit
activity, and realized carried interest more than doubled to
$345 million. The company in the first quarter sold shares of
LyondellBasell and Charter Communications Inc., and took public
 Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings Ltd. (NCLH)  and Countrywide Plc. During
the second quarter Apollo has already completed or announced at
least three strategic sales, two secondary share sales and three
dividend recapitalizations, Spilker said earlier this month.  “We think it’s a fabulous environment to be selling,”
Black, also Apollo’s chairman, said at a conference last month
in  Los Angeles . “We’re selling everything that’s not nailed
down in our portfolio. And if it is nailed down, we’re
refinancing it.”  Buyout firms’ earnings rarely follow a linear path because
they are driven by the lumpy timing of exits as well as the
“mark-to-market” valuations of fund holdings, which are
vulnerable to market swings and required each quarter under
accounting rules. While Apollo last year reported higher profit
for three quarters, its second-quarter economic net income after
taxes fell 84 percent as its fund returns declined and it
collected a lower share of investment gains.  Distribution Cycle  Rallying equity markets and affordable debt have made for
an environment conducive to IPOs, sales and refinancings by
private-equity firms, said Irizarry of Goldman Sachs. The cash
earned from such exits and the distributions they fuel to
shareholders is buoying the firms’ public stocks, he said.  “The pig is coming through the python in terms of all the
deals that happened at the buyout peak of 2006 to 2007,” said
Irizarry. “Because of the financial crisis and the economic
backdrop, it’s been a longer cycle. So the distribution cycle is
here.”  Neutral Ratings  For Irizarry, who has neutral ratings on shares of Apollo,
 Oaktree (OAK)  Capital Group LLC, Carlyle and  Och-Ziff (OZM)  Capital
Management Group LLC, alternative-asset firms are still proving
themselves to public investors because the typical 10 years of a
full buyout fund cycle hasn’t yet occurred while the firms have
been public. Fortress was the first company in the ranking to
hold its IPO, in 2007, followed by Blackstone and Och-Ziff later
that year.  Fortress, based in  New York , is down 61 percent since its
IPO. Blackstone has declined 25 percent since its offering, and
Och-Ziff has decreased 64 percent since it sold shares to the
public.  KKR, which is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, didn’t
hold an IPO, choosing instead to combine with its publicly
traded European fund. The firm moved its listing to the U.S.
from Amsterdam in 2010, and the shares have almost doubled since
then.  Apollo has gained 39 percent since its IPO on March 29,
2011. Carlyle and Los Angeles-based Oaktree have risen 40
percent and 29 percent, respectively, since their offerings last
year.  “They’re still ‘show-me’ stories in the eyes of the
market,” Irizarry said. “There’s some reluctance on the part
of investors to ascribe higher valuations on these managers
until they see how sustainable these businesses really are.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  