-- Apple Got No Sweetheart Accord on Corporate Tax Bill, Irish Say
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2013-05-22T11:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/apple-got-no-sweetheart-accord-on-corporate-tax-bill-irish-say.html
Ireland provides no special tax
concessions for  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  or other U.S. companies operating in
the country, the nation’s inward investment agency chief said,
echoing comments by Irish political leaders.  “There is no special deal for Apple or any other
company,” Barry O’Leary, chief executive officer of IDA Ireland
said in an interview with Dublin-based broadcaster RTE today.
“I’m certainly in a position to say that nothing like that has
been agreed by the Irish government.”  Irish policy makers today continued to defend the country’s
tax regime, with deputy Prime Minister  Eamon Gilmore  saying
today that laws apply equally to all companies. A U.S. senate
panel report this week said that Apple negotiated a tax rate of
less than 2 percent with Irish authorities. Ireland applies a
rate of 12.5 percent on company taxes.  “Just because you heard it yesterday in the Senate
committee doesn’t mean to say it’s factually correct,” O’Leary
said. “It’s not something that the government did for Apple.”  Apple, the world’s most-valuable technology company, has
$102 billion in offshore accounts and shifted billions in
profits out of the U.S. into affiliates based in Ireland,
according to the report. Investigations found that Apple avoided
paying income taxes on $74 billion of profit during the past
four years in part by moving  patent rights  to a web of offshore
subsidiaries that pay virtually no income taxes.  Every Dollar  According to the report yesterday, Apple told the
investigation that the Irish government had calculated the
company’s taxable income to produce an “effective rate in the
low-single digits.”  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  yesterday said the
company had done nothing wrong and said it pays “all the taxes
we owe -- every single dollar.”  The Cupertino, California-based company is also not alone
in moving profits to offshore units. Google, for example, has
used a pair of tax shelters that move foreign profits through
Ireland and the Netherlands to Bermuda to avoid about $2 billion
in income taxes a year, according to the company’s filings in
the U.S.  Google, which didn’t reply to an e-mail request for comment
yesterday, said in December that it complies with all tax rules,
and its investment in various European countries helps their
economies.  U.S. companies invested about $188 billion in foreign
direct investment in Ireland as of 2011, more than the total for
 Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China , according to data on the
American Chamber of Commerce in Ireland. In 2011, U.S. companies
accounted for 74 percent of inward investment in Ireland,
according to agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  