-- Are Obama’s Scandals Good for Investors?
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2013-05-22T22:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/are-obama-s-scandals-good-for-investors-.html
Washington  is awash in scandals. The
White House is fending off inquiries on three fronts: its
response to the terrorist attack on a U.S. diplomatic outpost in
Benghazi; the  Internal Revenue Service ’s scrutiny of
conservative groups seeking tax exemptions; and the  Justice
Department ’s broad seizure of Associated Press phone records in
a leak probe.  Democrats in Congress are outraged -- by the IRS scandal,
at least -- and don’t want to look blase about an organization
everyone loves to hate when control of the Senate is at stake in
the 2014 midterm election. Republicans smell blood. No fewer
than five congressional committees have announced hearings to
investigate the Benghazi and IRS scandals. They could drag on
for months. A special prosecutor may get the nod.  All of this distraction is surely bad for the U.S. stock
market and economy, right?  To the contrary. “Do-nothing Congress” may originally
have been a pejorative term directed at the  80th Congress  by
President  Harry Truman . (The last Congress,  the 112th , put
Truman’s to shame.) For investors, it means something entirely
different: better returns.  Several analysts have observed that the stock market tends
to do better when Congress isn’t in session. Eric Singer,
manager of Congressional Effect Management, has made a career
of, and written a  book  on, just such an effect.  Jim Bianco ,
president of Bianco Research LLC, has studied the relationship
between the  number of pages  in the Federal Register -- the
government’s “rule book” -- and bond and commodity markets. He
found that more pages yield less profit.  ‘Issues Entrepreneur’  So what’s behind the idea of legislative risk? I called
Singer to find out why the market tends to outperform when
Congress isn’t in session.  “There are 535 men and women who wake up each day trying
to become an ‘issues entrepreneur’ by championing legislation,”
Singer said.  To the extent that Congress is distracted by scandals, it
should limit legislative initiatives. But the surest way to
capture the congressional effect is to be invested only when
Congress is out of session, Singer said. His  mutual fund  invests
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index when Congress is out of
session and is hedged or in cash equivalents when it’s in
session.  Such a  strategy  would have paid off handsomely in the last
115 years. One dollar invested in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  in 1897 during in-session days would have compounded to
$2 at the end of 2012, Singer said. The same dollar invested
during off-session days would have appreciated to $300. These
statistics measure price change only.  The congressional effect would seem to apply to the overall
economy, as well. To the extent that Congress writes rules and
regulations that curtail businesses’ freedom, impose additional
costs and interfere with the voluntary exchange of goods and
services, lawmakers prevent the economy from reaching its
potential.  Throw in the government’s predilection for trying to pick
winners and losers -- for subsidizing socially responsible
projects that yield financially unsustainable businesses -- and
it isn’t hard to understand the legislative effect, or curse, as
it turns out. Heck, the economy might have done a whole lot
worse if the 112th Congress had done something, instead of
nothing.  You can have too much of a good thing, however. While the
early stages of a scandal tend to be bullish in that they
prevent congressional overreach, “it can morph into something
else,” Bianco said. “There’s a fine line between a distracted
Congress and a government that can’t function properly,” which
leads to a loss of confidence on the part of the public.  Legacy Time  A case in point is  Watergate . The investigation by both the
press and Congress captivated the entire nation as it gradually
ensnared President  Richard Nixon ’s top advisers and ultimately
led to the Oval Office. With the economy mired in what at the
time was the worst  recession  since the Great Depression, Nixon’s
resignation on Aug. 9, 1974, didn’t halt the decline in the
stock market, which fell an additional 25 percent by year-end.
Which just goes to show there are exceptions to every rule or
investing strategy.  Congressional committees are still engaged in a fact-finding mission on what looks like an abuse of authority by the
IRS. If the hearings produce evidence of impropriety on the part
of the White House, they will definitely interfere with Obama’s
second-term agenda, including immigration reform,  gun control 
and an overhaul of the  tax code  (don’t hold your breath on the
last one).  That’s not all bad for Obama, who is into legacy-planning.
He may have inherited a lousy economy from his predecessor, but
he can’t very well leave office after eight years and blame
 George W. Bush  for tepid growth in both terms. Counterintuitive
as it may seem, Obama should hope the scandals distract Congress
from its legislative agenda since any diversion suggests a
better economy and stock market. Unless, of course, the scandal
trail leads to him.  (Caroline Baum, author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Caroline Baum  in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  