-- Army Sergeant Accused of Videotaping Showering Cadets
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-05-22T21:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/army-sergeant-accused-of-videotaping-showering-cadets.html
An Army sergeant at the U.S. Military
Academy at West Point faces charges of videotaping female cadets
without their consent while they showered, according to a U.S.
official.  Sergeant First Class Michael McClendon, who supervised a
company of 121 cadets at the academy in New York state, has been
transferred to Fort Drum, New York, and charges were filed on
May 14, the Army said today in a statement.  The allegations include the surreptitious taping, according
to the official, who asked not to be identified discussing
details that weren’t in the Army’s announcement.  The allegations, reported earlier today by the New York
Times, are the latest in a number of cases involving alleged
sexual improprieties that have roiled the military, raising
pressure on Congress to pass legislation aimed at curbing sexual
assaults.  McClendon is charged with violating four articles of the
Uniform Code of Military Justice concerning indecent acts,
dereliction in the performance of duties, cruelty and
maltreatment, and conduct that is prejudicial to good order and
discipline, the Army said in the statement.  The Army’s Criminal Investigation Division is notifying the
affected cadets and “everyone involved,” the Army said.  McClendon has served on the staff at West Point since July
2009.  The case surfaced days before Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel is scheduled to speak at the academy’s commencement on May
25.  “The Army is committed to ensuring the safety and welfare
of our cadets at the Military Academy at West Point,” General
John Campbell, the Army’s vice chief of staff, said in the
statement. “Once notified of the violation, a full
investigation was launched followed by swift action to correct
the problem. Our cadets must be confident that issues such as
these are handled quickly and decisively, and that our system
will hold those responsible accountable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  