-- Larsen Shares Slump After Profit Misses Estimates: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-05-22T11:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/larsen-net-misses-estimates-as-weak-economic-growth-damps-demand.html
Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , India’s biggest
engineering company, plunged the most in more than three years
in Mumbai after reporting fourth-quarter profit that missed
analysts’ estimates.  Larsen  slumped  5.7 percent, the sharpest loss since Jan.
21, 2010, to 1,513.90 rupees at the close, the worst performer
on the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex today. Mumbai-based Larsen has
dropped 5.8 percent this year, compared with a 3.3 percent gain
for the Sensex.  The company’s  net income  fell 6.7 percent to 17.9 billion
rupees ($322 million) in the three months ended in March,
lagging behind the 18.8 billion-rupee median of 35 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Chief Executive Officer
Krishnamurthi Venkataramanan is aiming to boost Larsen’s
overseas business as slower economic growth at home cools demand
for construction projects.  “Slow-moving orders are a concern not only for the
company; they paint a true picture of the economy,” said Jinal Joshi, a Mumbai-based analyst at BOB Capital Markets Ltd.
Larsen’s “numbers are a commentary on the bearish economy.”  India ’s capital-goods production, a  gauge  of corporate
expenditure on factories and machinery, has shrunk in 16 out of
the 21 months through March, according to the latest available
data. The economy grew 5 percent in the year ended in March, the
weakest pace in a decade, according to preliminary estimates by
the nation’s statistics agency.  ‘Investment Climate’  “The challenges in the growth path of Indian economy are
still persisting,” Larsen said in a  statement . “Constraints to
the speedy implementation of the reform process is adversely
impacting the investment climate.”  Sales rose to 203 billion rupees in the quarter from 185
billion rupees. That lagged behind the 211.3 billion-rupee
median estimate. The company  missed  sales estimate for the
second quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An increase in finance and inventory costs also weighed on
the company’s profitability. Finance costs more than doubled to
2.81 billion rupees and inventory charges surged seven-fold to
8.2 billion rupees, according to the earnings report.  The company won 880 billion rupees of orders last year,
taking the total value of orders to 1.54 trillion rupees,
according to the statement. New orders may rise 20 percent in
the year that began April 1, Larsen forecast.  “That target is ambitious but achievable,” said BOB
Capital’s Joshi, who has a buy rating on the stock. “Larsen has
the ability to surprise because of its diversified nature.”  Overseas orders accounted for 13 percent of Larsen’s total
contracts, the company said in the statement. Larsen plans to
expand contribution of sales from abroad to 30 percent of its
total, Chief Financial Officer R. Shankar Raman said in an
interview last month.  Larsen’s board approved giving one free share for every two
held.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  