-- Maryland Plant Shutdown Sends U.S. Nuclear Production Lower
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-05-22T15:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/maryland-plant-shutdown-sends-u-s-nuclear-production-lower.html
U.S.  nuclear-power generation 
declined for the first time in four days after a Maryland
reactor shut down because of a pump failure.  Nationwide production fell  0.4 percent  to 84,196 megawatts,
or 83 percent of capacity, according to Nuclear Regulatory
Commission data compiled by Bloomberg. Output was  2.2 percent
higher  than a year ago with 17 of 104 plants offline.  Constellation Energy Group Inc.’s 862-megawatt Calvert
Cliffs 2 reactor, about 38 miles (61 kilometers) south of
Annapolis, tripped offline yesterday because of equipment
failure associated with the steam generator feed pump, the NRC’s
daily event notification  report  shows.  “We are repairing a coupling that is part of one of our
steam generator feed pumps,” Kory Raftery, a spokesman with the
company, said in an e-mail today. “Unit 2 will be returned to
service once the investigation is completed, repairs are made,
and the system is fully tested.”  Raftery declined to provide details about the expected
duration of the shutdown.  American Electric Power Co. (AEP)  slowed output at the 1,009-megawatt D.C. Cook 1 reactor in  Michigan  to 49 percent from 69
percent. The plant, about 26 miles northwest of South Bend,
 Indiana , had been ramping up after being shut for refueling and
planned maintenance.  Florida Reactor  Northeast and Midwest generation dropped today as the two
reactors cut output while the Southeast gained.  NextEra Energy Inc. increased production at the 720-megawatt Turkey Point 3 reactor in  Florida  to 93 percent of
capacity, from 49 percent yesterday. The reactor is located
about 20 miles south of Miami.  Reactor maintenance shutdowns, usually undertaken in the
U.S. spring or fall when energy use is lowest, may increase
consumption of natural gas and coal to generate electricity. The
average refueling down time was 46 days in 2012, according to
the Nuclear Energy Institute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  