-- Cricketer Warner Says He’ll Keep Speaking His Mind After Fine
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-23T02:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/australian-cricket-board-fines-warner-for-comments-on-twitter.html
Australia  cricketer David Warner said
he will continue to speak his mind after being fined for posting
abusive comments to journalists on Twitter last weekend.  Cricket Australia fined Warner A$5,750 ($5,544) last night
for posting the expletive-laden messages on the social
networking site. Warner, who has apologized to the journalists
involved, said he took to Twitter after his photo was used to
illustrate an article  questioning the integrity  of the Indian
Premier League, where he plays for the Delhi Daredevils.  “I’ve got to be a bit more professional with the choice of
words that I use next time,” Warner told reporters in Sydney
today. “I’ll keep speaking my mind and always have my opinion
and I’ll always continue to try to defend myself in the right
choice of words.”  Warner said he was “extremely annoyed” that his photo was
used in conjunction with the story, adding that having his name
or image linked to an article detailing corruption “is the
worst thing that can possibly be brought to a cricket player.”  Three IPL cricketers from  India  are being investigated by
local police for alleged spot fixing, where players manipulate
specific actions in a game, such as the number of no-balls
bowled or the number of runs a batsman makes, rather than the
result of a match.  Melbourne-based Cricket Australia said in a  statement 
yesterday that Senior Code of Behavior Commissioner Gordon Lewis
ruled Warner was guilty of “unbecoming behavior” at a
disciplinary hearing. His fine is the maximum allowed for a
first offense under the governing body’s behavior code.  Opening batsman Warner, a member of Australia’s squad for
the Ashes series in  England  starting July 10, has played 19
Tests for his country. He’s scored 1,263 runs, including three
centuries, at an average of 39.46.  “We all know as professional athletes what’s appropriate
and what’s not appropriate,” Warner added. “At the end of the
day it was my fault. I take full blame for what’s happened and
apologize to anyone I offended out there with my language. I
want to put a line under all this and move forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  