-- Australian Stock Futures Drop on Concern Fed Will Taper Stimulus
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-05-22T23:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/australian-stock-futures-drop-on-concern-fed-will-taper-stimulus.html
Australian  stock futures  fell amid
concern the  Federal Reserve  will scale back its stimulus
measures if the U.S. labor market continues to improve. Japanese
equity futures rose as the yen weakened.  American Depositary Receipts of  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,
Australia’s second-biggest oil producer, sank 0.5 percent as
crude dropped the most in three weeks yesterday. ADRs of Toyota
Motor Corp., the world’s largest automaker, gained 0.7 percent
as the yen weakened against the dollar from the close of
Japanese equity markets yesterday. Canon Inc. shares may be
active after  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the largest personal-computer
maker to which Canon is a supplier, forecast third-quarter
profit that topped analysts’ estimates.  Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index retreated 0.4
percent and New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.1 percent. Futures
on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring next month traded
at 15,710 in Chicago yesterday, up from 15,670 at the close in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at  15,710 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time.  “You’re getting those knee-jerk reactions in markets,”
said  Angus Gluskie , managing director at Sydney-based White
Funds Management, which oversees more than $350 million.
“Bernanke is making it very clear to markets that at some point
they will be likely to reduce the level of bond purchases and
that’s an important point for the market to digest. He’s saying
we’re going to wind this down at some point, but not with the
economy the way it is.”  Hong Kong  Futures on  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index gained 0.3 percent
and contracts on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of
mainland Chinese companies trading in Hong Kong added 0.4
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. dropped 2.2 percent in New York
yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, surged 11 percent this year through yesterday as
U.S. economic data improved and Japan’s central bank took steps
to counter deflation. That left the measure yesterday trading at
14.1 times average estimated earnings compared with 15 for the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  and 13.6 times for the Stoxx Europe
600 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1
percent. The gauge yesterday fell 0.8 percent, reversing an
earlier 1.1 percent advance. Stocks had rallied early in the day
after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in prepared remarks to
Congress that a premature withdrawal of quantitative easing
would put the economic recovery at risk.  Equities pared gains after Bernanke said the central bank
could “step down” the pace of asset purchases in the next few
meetings if the labor market continues to improve and “we have
confidence that that is going to be sustained.”  The yen was trading at 103.15 per dollar as of 7:50 a.m. in
Tokyo compared to 102.61 at the close of Japanese equity markets
yesterday.  West Texas Intermediate crude for July delivery fell $1.90
to settle at $94.28 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  