-- Australia Consumer Sentiment Slumps Most in 17 Months on Budget
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-05-22T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/australia-consumer-sentiment-slumps-most-in-17-months-on-budget.html
Australian  consumer confidence 
slumped by the most in 17 months as a government announcement
the budget would remain in deficit overshadowed record low
interest rates, a private survey showed.  The sentiment index for May dropped 7 percent to 97.6, a
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and Melbourne Institute survey taken May
13-18 of 1,200 adults showed today in Sydney. That was the
biggest drop since December 2011 and the first time since
October 2012 the figure has fallen below 100, which indicates
pessimists outnumber optimists.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board have slashed borrowing costs by 2 percentage points over
the past 19 months to 2.75 percent, joining global counterparts
in embracing record-low rates in an economy where inflation is
contained, mining spending is predicted to crest, and credit
growth stays subdued. The government in December abandoned a
pledge to return the budget to surplus this fiscal year and last
week projected a deficit of A$19.4 billion ($19 billion) in the
12 months to June 30.  “The results confirm our reasonable assumption that this
weakness in confidence is being driven by a sharply negative
response to the budget,” said  Bill Evans , Westpac’s chief
economist. “We expect that the dissatisfaction is not only due
to concerns around some of the savings measures in the budget
but also the sharp deterioration in the fiscal position, renewed
fears about the overall state of the economy. These concerns are
also likely to have been fuelled by the surprise fall in the
Australian dollar before and during the survey period.”  The local currency has dropped 4.5 percent in the past
month, the worst performer among the 16 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  