-- Cameron Calls Terror Killing ‘Betrayal of Islam’
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n ,   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2013-05-23T16:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/lawmaker-says-soldier-may-have-been-killed-near-london-barracks.html
The U.K. government said a 25-year-old soldier was the victim of a terrorist attack yesterday that
Prime Minister  David Cameron  called a “betrayal of Islam.”  Lee Rigby, a drummer in the 2nd Battalion of the Royal
Regiment of Fusiliers, was the soldier killed by two men
wielding knives and meat cleavers outside of army barracks in
London yesterday, the Ministry of Defence said in a statement.
The native of Manchester,  England , had served in Afghanistan and
Cyprus before returning to London in 2011.  “There is nothing in Islam that justifies this truly
dreadful act,” Cameron told reporters outside his London office
today after a meeting of the Cabinet’s emergency committee, the
second in less than 24 hours. The blame “lies purely with the
sickening individuals who carried out this attack.”  Rigby, who had a 2-year-old son, was attacked just after 2
p.m. yesterday outside a military barracks in Woolwich,
southeast London. When officers arrived at the scene, they shot,
wounded and arrested two armed men. Police searched a house in
Lincolnshire as part of the probe, which is being conducted by
the Met’s counter-terrorism command, spokeswomen for the London
and Lincolnshire forces said.  Video footage  broadcast by ITV News showed a black man, his
hands covered in blood and holding a cleaver and a knife,
speaking after the attack. “We must fight them as they fight
us,” he said in a London accent. “An eye for an eye, a tooth
for a tooth. Your people will never be safe. Remove your
government, they don’t care about you.” The man apologized that
women had to witness the incident. “In our lands, our women see
the same,” he said.  Suspects Known  The suspects were known to the security services, according
to a person familiar with the investigation who declined to be
named for legal reasons.  Cameron warned against “knee-jerk responses” to the
attack, following U.K. media reports of unrest in the Woolwich
area last night sparked by members of the English Defence
League, which campaigns against immigration.  The attackers were yelling “Allahu akbar,” meaning “God
is great” in Arabic, Sky News television and the  BBC  reported.  “On our televisions last night -- and in our newspapers
this morning -- we have all seen images that are deeply
shocking,” Cameron said. “The people who did this were trying
to divide us. They should know: something like this will only
bring us together and make us stronger.”  Police Searches  Britain’s Press Association newswire said the property
being searched in Eastern England was in Saxilby, close to the
city of Lincoln. A home in Greenwich, near the attacks, was also
searched and four people were taken away by police, the BBC
reported.  The BBC and other U.K. media identified one of the suspects
as Michael Adebolajo. The  Independent newspaper reported  today
that Adebolajo was known to belong to a banned Islamist
organization, Al Muhajiroun, which favors sharia law and
publicly celebrated the Sept. 11 bombings in the U.S. He went by
the name of Mujahid -- a Muslim engaged in holy war -- up until
two years ago, Anjem Choudary, the former leader of the group,
was cited as saying by the newspaper. No charges have been filed
by police.  It’s the first actual, rather than planned, attack in
Britain investigated as a possible act of terrorism since July
7, 2005. Fifty-two people were killed when four Islamist suicide
bombers set off explosions on underground trains and a bus in
central  London  during the morning rush hour.  Threat Level  Security was tightened at Woolwich and other London
barracks, Cameron’s office said last night. There was no change
to the terror threat level in the U.K. from “substantial,”
meaning an attack is a “strong possibility,” following the
incident, the Cabinet Office said.  A tent still covered the site of the attack in Woolwich
today as police and forensics officers examined the scene. One
was digging up the grass verge with a spade. A line of police
clad in dark blue overalls scoured the grass for clues 24 hours
after the attack took place.  The public were kept away by a police cordon, where flowers
were being left to be taken up to the intersection where the
soldier was killed. A group of Sikhs from a nearby temple
delivered a bouquet, as did a group of workers from the local
council. One man whose son had been killed on active military
service brought a bunch of red roses. More flowers were laid at
the entrance to the barracks.  This morning’s emergency meeting discussed “community
cohesion,” Cameron’s office said.  “The strength and unity of
response from Muslim community leaders was recognized and
commended by ministers and others around the table,” according
to the statement.  “One of the best ways of defeating terrorism is to go
about our normal lives,” said Cameron, who went to visit the
barracks this afternoon. “And that is what we shall all do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  