-- Axiata Said to Weigh Bid for Saudi Telecom’s Axis Indonesia
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g ,   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-22T11:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/axiata-said-to-consider-offer-for-saudi-telecom-s-axis-indonesia.html
Axiata Group Bhd. (AXIATA) ,  Malaysia ’s largest
mobile-phone operator, is evaluating a bid for PT Axis Telekom
 Indonesia , three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Any offer for Axis would be made by Axiata’s Indonesian
unit, PT XL Axiata, the people said, asking not to be identified
as the information is private. Purchasing the Indonesian carrier
would give XL Axiata the mobile-phone frequencies it needs to
expand in Southeast  Asia ’s most crowded wireless market, one
person said.  Axis, majority owned by  Saudi Telecom Co. (STC) , is valued at
about $1 billion including debt, according to an estimate from
Saudi Fransi Capital. Malaysia’s  Maxis (MAXIS)  Communications Bhd. also
holds a stake in the company.  Ten operators compete for subscribers in Indonesia’s mobile
market, the second-highest number in Asia after  India , in what
 XL Axiata (EXCL)  on May 1 called an “unsustainable situation.” Buying
spectrum would allow XL Axiata to add services and coverage
areas after the company this month reported first-quarter profit
slumped by more than half to 315.5 billion rupiah ($32 million)
from a year earlier.  “There’s no information that I can share at this point in
time,” XL Axiata President Director Hasnul Suhaimi said in a
text message response to questions from Bloomberg. A spokeswoman
for Kuala Lumpur-based Axiata declined to comment, while
representatives of Saudi Telecom, Axis and Maxis Communications
weren’t immediately available.  Consolidation Benefits  Kuala Lumpur-based Axiata announced today an 8.7 percent
increase in first-quarter  net income  to 614.6 million ringgit
($203 million), missing a mean estimate of 673 million ringgit
of two analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg News .  Any purchase of Axis would require approval from the
Indonesian government, which holds stakes in the two largest
telecom operators -- PT Telekomunikasi Indonesia and  PT Indosat 
-- one person said.  XL Axiata, with 46 million subscribers, would be “happy to
play a role” in consolidation of Indonesia’s mobile telecom
industry, Suhaimi said on a May 1 conference call with investors.  “Ultimately, it might become not even attractive to
continue investing,” unless the industry structure improves, he
said, according to a transcript of the call.  Indonesia’s three major operators, including XL Axiata,
would benefit from acquisitions as eased competition would allow
them to raise prices, according to Riaz Hyder, an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd.  Stock Underperforms  “We expect the acquisition will most likely prove to be
dilutionary to XL Axiata’s earnings given the extent of Axis’s
losses currently being incurred,” Hyder said today in a note.  XL Axiata was unchanged at 5,200 rupiah in Jakarta today
after earlier falling as much as 1.9 percent, taking this year’s
 decline  in the shares to to 8.8 percent. The stock has
underperformed the Jakarta Composite Index’s 21 percent gain
this year, and trades at a lower price-to-earnings multiple than
Telekomunikasi Indonesia and Indosat, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Saudi Telecom owns 84 percent of Axis, while Maxis holds
the remainder. Saudi Telecom’s stake in Axis is valued at $880
million, Saudi Fransi Capital analyst Roy Cherry said in
February. Saudi Telecom’s Chief Executive Officer Khaled Al Ghuniem quit the parent company in March after less than a year
in the post.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  Hong Kong  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  