-- Aznar Challenges Rajoy to Cut Taxes for Spain’s Middle Class
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-05-22T08:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/aznar-challenges-rajoy-to-cut-taxes-for-spain-s-middle-class.html
Former Spanish Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar challenged his protege, current Premier  Mariano Rajoy , declaring his willingess to rejoin the political arena
and calling for tax cuts.  Aznar, 60, urged Rajoy to ease the pressure on the middle
class in an interview late yesterday on Antena 3 television.
Aznar, the first conservative figure to win power after the
dictatorship of  Francisco Franco , nominated Rajoy as his
successor at the head of the governing  People’s Party  before the
2004 election after winning two successive votes.  “The punishment of the middle class is proving intense,”
Aznar said, according to a transcript of the interview published
on the station’s website. “Spain needs a thorough fiscal
reform. We need to cut taxes.”  Rajoy has faced dissent within his party since raising
income taxes in breach of his 2011 election promises to meet
European budget demands. With an economy in recession, his
government is forecasting unemployment will remain above 25
percent until the next election due in 2015.  Asked if he would consider a return to electoral politics,
Aznar, who taught at  Georgetown University  and served on the
board of  News Corp. (NWSA)  since leaving office, said: “I will meet my
responsibilities, follow my conscience and do my duty to my
party and my country.”  “Aznar projects the image of being decisive and the
arrogance of being a winner,” said Ken Dubin, a political
scientist who teaches at IE business school in Madrid and Carlos
III University. “There’s no one who is sitting in power who can
project either of these things. It certainly stirs up the
waters.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  