-- Bank of Israel Monetary Panel Split on Extent of Last Rate Cut
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-05-22T12:19:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/bank-of-israel-monetary-panel-split-on-extent-of-last-rate-cut.html
Bank of Israel  Governor  Stanley Fischer  used his tie-breaking vote for the first time to
restrict last week’s rate cut to 0.25 percentage point, as half
the panel pressed for a bigger reduction.  The Bank of  Israel  said two of the committee’s six members
sided with Fischer and three others sought a 0.5 percentage-point cut. The announcement by e-mail today fueled speculation
that the rate will be lowered again next week. The shekel
weakened to a two-month low and bond yields fell.  “Overall, the debate means that they said, let’s cut 25
basis points, wait, look at market reaction and make the
reduction more gradual,” said Rafi Gozlan, chief economist at
I.B.I.-Israel Brokerage and Investments Ltd. in  Tel Aviv .  The unexpected move on May 13, when no monetary policy
meeting had been scheduled, brought the rate down to 1.5
percent, a three-year low. The central bank cited the continued
appreciation of the shekel, as well as the start of natural gas
production and rate cuts by other central banks.  Committee members who supported the 25-basis point cut
argued that the “moderate reduction,” together with the plan
announced at the same time to purchase about $2.1 billion by the
end of the year, would be sufficient until the scheduled meeting
on May 27 when “the effect of this reduction would be
analyzed,” the bank said.  The other three members of the committee justified their
support for a 0.5 percentage-point cut mainly on developments in
the foreign  currency market , it said.  Gozlan said Israeli treasury bills, whose yields fell after
last week’s cut, were already pricing in another reduction. The
yield on the central bank’s one-year Makam bills fell to 1.34
percent today from 1.62 percent before the rate cut.  “The market is pricing in another cut of 25 basis points
and this will likely force the Bank of Israel to cut again,
otherwise it risks an appreciation of the shekel,” Gozlan said
by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  