-- Bank of Korea’s Kim Sees Global Risks From Fed Exit
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-05-22T04:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/bank-of-korea-s-kim-sees-global-risks-from-fed-exit.html
South Korea’s central bank chief said
a U.S. pullback from monetary easing would spur risks worldwide
from rising bond yields, adding to a global debate over how to
manage costs from exiting record stimulus.  “If the U.S. begins to exit from quantitative easing
policies, the world will be facing interest-rate risks, in terms
of how much would bond yields rise,”  Bank of Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo said in a speech today in Seoul to heads of banks.
Whether the international Basel III capital standards could
require banks to increase assets as bond prices fall is a
“problem to think about,” he said.  Kim’s comments add to concern that the impact of the U.S.
Federal Reserve’s eventual efforts to reverse  record easing  will
be felt around the globe. International Monetary Fund economists
said in a report last week that a “potential sharp rise in
long-term  interest rates  could prove difficult to control,”
undermining growth and financial stability.  The head of Mexico’s central bank said in February that
some emerging-market economies may face a reversal of “massive
capital flows” as major advanced economies tighten monetary
policy.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said May
4 that any unwinding of “extraordinary quantitative
easing” in advanced nations may disrupt capital flows to India.  Norman Chan , chief executive of the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority, has warned that households accustomed to low interest
rates may face risks when borrowing costs rise. Hong Kong’s
exchange rate is pegged to the  U.S. dollar .  The Bank of Korea earlier this month joined central banks
in Australia, Europe and India in May interest-rate cuts, as a
weak yen dims the outlook for the nation’s exports and record
household debt weighs on consumption. Kim and his board lowered
the  benchmark rate  to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent.  Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C.
Dudley, who is also vice chairman of the Fed’s policy committee,
said yesterday that he has not decided whether the central
bank’s next move should be to enlarge or shrink its bond-buying
program as he called for a fresh look at its eventual retreat
from record asset purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in  Seoul  at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  