-- Bank of Japan’s May 22 Statement on Monetary Policy: Full Text
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-22T03:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/bank-of-japan-s-may-22-statement-on-monetary-policy-full-text.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the full text of the statement released today by the
 Bank of Japan  in Tokyo.  1. At the  Monetary Policy  Meeting held today, the Policy Board
of the Bank of Japan decided, by a unanimous vote, to set the
following guideline for money market operations for the
intermeeting period:  (1) The Bank of Japan will conduct money market operations so
that the monetary base will increase at an annual pace of about
60-70 trillion yen.  (2) With regard to the asset purchases, the Bank will continue
with the following guidelines:  a) The Bank will purchase Japanese  government bonds  (JGBs) so
that their amount outstanding will increase at an annual pace of
about 50 trillion yen, and that the average remaining maturity
of the Bank’s JGB purchases will be about seven years.  b) The Bank will purchase exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and  Japan 
real estate investment trusts (J-REITs) so that their amounts
outstanding will increase at an annual pace of about 1 trillion
yen and about 30 billion yen respectively.  c) As for CP and corporate bonds, the Bank will continue with
those asset purchases until their amounts outstanding reach 2.2
trillion yen and 3.2 trillion yen respectively by end-2013;
thereafter, it will maintain those amounts outstanding.  (3) Japan’s economy has started picking up. Exports have stopped
decreasing as overseas economies have been moving out of the
deceleration phase that had continued since last year and are
gradually heading toward a pick-up. Business fixed investment
continues to show resilience in nonmanufacturing and appears to
have stopped weakening on the whole. Public investment has
continued to increase, and housing investment has generally been
picking up. Private consumption has seen increased resilience,
assisted by the improvement in consumer sentiment. Reflecting
these developments in demand both at home and abroad, industrial
production has stopped decreasing and signs of picking up have
become increasingly evident. Meanwhile, financial conditions are
accommodative. On the price front, the year-on-year rate of
change in the  consumer price index  (CPI, all items less fresh
food) has been negative, due to the reversal of the previous
year’s movements in energy-related and durable consumer goods.
Some indicators suggest a rise in inflation expectations.  (4) With regard to the outlook, Japan’s economy is expected to
return to a moderate recovery path, mainly against the
background that domestic demand remains resilient due to the
effects of monetary easing as well as various economic measures,
and that growth rates of overseas economies gradually pick up.
The year-on-year rate of change in the CPI is expected to
register smaller declines for the time being, and thereafter is
likely to gradually turn positive.  (5) Regarding risks, there remains a high degree of uncertainty
concerning Japan’s economy, including the prospects for the
European debt problem and the growth momentum of the  U.S.
economy  as well as the emerging and commodity-exporting
economies.  (6) The Bank will continue with quantitative and qualitative
monetary easing, aiming to achieve the price stability target of
2 percent, as long as it is necessary for maintaining that
target in a stable manner. It will examine both upside and
downside risks to economic activity and prices, and make
adjustments as appropriate. [NOTE]  Such conduct of monetary policy will support the positive
movements in economic activity and financial markets, contribute
to a rise in inflation expectations, and lead Japan’s economy to
overcome deflation that has lasted for nearly 15 years.  [Note] Mr. T. Kiuchi proposed that the Bank will aim to achieve
the price stability target of 2 percent in the medium to long
term and designate quantitative and qualitative monetary easing
as an intensive measure with a time frame of about two years.
The proposal was defeated by an 8-1 majority vote. Voting for
the proposal: Mr. T. Kiuchi. Voting against the proposal: Mr. H.
Kuroda, Mr. K. Iwata, Mr. H. Nakaso, Mr. R. Miyao, Mr. Y.
Morimoto, Ms. S. Shirai, Mr. K. Ishida, and Mr. T. Sato.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Mayger in  Tokyo  at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  