-- Barrick Weighs Shrinking to Add Profits: Corporate Canada
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-05-22T13:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/barrick-weighs-shrinking-to-add-profits-corporate-canada.html
     May 22 (Bloomberg News) --  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the biggest
miner of the metal by sales, is considering shrinking in size as
the company focuses on returns over production volumes, Chief
Executive Officer Jamie Sokalsky said.  “Being more profitable is better than being bigger,”
Sokalsky said yesterday at the Bloomberg  Canada  Economic Summit
in Toronto. “If we divested of some of those smaller, higher-cost assets and came down to a suite of assets that are long-lived and lower-cost and more valuable, I think that ultimately
that can be a better investment proposition.”  Gold producers are trading at their  cheapest  in more than a
decade relative to the broader market, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, as investors flee the industry amid
rising mining costs, project delays and asset writedowns.
Sokalsky, who took over as CEO of the Toronto-based company 11
months ago, is reviewing growth plans and pursuing asset sales
as gold trades at a two-year low and is poised to end a rally
that has extended for 12 straight years.  Barrick, the owner or part owner of 27 mines, rose 2.1
percent to C$20.29 at 9:43 a.m. in Toronto. The company closed
at a two-decade low on April 17, losing its position as the top
gold miner by market value to Vancouver-based  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  last
month.  Possible Sale  It makes sense for Barrick to shrink, said  George Topping ,
an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Toronto. Selling the
company’s Australian assets would be “a good place to start,”
he said. Barrick is working with Bank of America Corp. and UBS
AG on a possible sale of Australian mines, two people with
knowledge of the matter said last month.  “At the 8 million-ounce level, with 26 or so mines it’s
very difficult to focus,” Topping said yesterday by phone. “In
order to have better managerial control you’re better off with
fewer but much larger assets, preferably in the same north-south
time zones.”  It’s easier to manage a company with fewer assets, said
Sokalsky, 55. The location of mines also has taken on a greater
importance because of an increase in so-called resource
nationalism, in which governments seek a bigger slice of
revenue. After a dispute with the  Dominican Republic , Toronto-based Barrick on May 8 agreed to amend a lease governing the
Pueblo Viejo mine in the country.  Political Risk  Investors including hedge-fund billionaire  John Paulson 
have also pushed for some gold producers to consider separating
assets that are located in riskier locations. Johannesburg-based
 Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  in February spun off most of its assets in
 South Africa , which has been beset by labor disputes and seen a
political debate about nationalizing mines.  “Five to 10 years ago a mine in  Papua New Guinea  might get
the same valuation as a mine in Canada in the market place, and
I think that’s changed considerably,” Sokalsky said.
“Differentiating the portfolio from a geopolitical standpoint
can also change the dynamic of how valuable your assets are.”  Barrick said in February it’s seeking buyers for its energy
unit and a 50 percent stake in the Kabanga nickel project in
Tanzania. It’s “actively” looking at selling other assets,
Sokalsky said yesterday, declining to name them. Barrick won’t
resort to a “fire sale,” he said.  Sokalsky said it’s harder to sell assets now than it would
have been a couple of years ago because of lower metal prices
and equity valuations. The general mood in the gold industry is
“anti-M&A,”  he said.  Gold Rebound?  Mining companies led by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest, are holding the biggest-ever sale of assets this year
as producers seek to boost earnings and cut costs, with about
$48 billion of mines and assets on the block.  Gold futures for June delivery rose 0.8 percent to
$1,388.60 an ounce at 9:42 a.m. on the Comex in  New York . The
metal has tumbled 17 percent this year and slumped into a  bear
market  last month.  Still, Sokalsky said he doesn’t believe the long-term  bull
market  for gold has ended and expects the price will eventually
rise to a record. Central bank purchases of gold, high
government debt levels and a lack of new supply will support
prices for the metal, he said. A rally back to $1,700 to $1,800
an ounce in the next 12 months is probably “achievable,” he
said.  Sokalsky, who was previously Barrick’s chief financial
officer, was promoted to CEO on June 6 to replace Aaron Regent,
who was fired after the board said it was “disappointed” by
the company’s share-price performance.  Equities Opportunity  Despite Sokalsky’s efforts to cut operating costs, sell
underperforming assets and resolve the problems dogging its $8.5
billion Pascua-Lama project in the Andes, Barrick’s shares have
continued to slide, along with those of its peers. Barrick has
fallen 42 percent this year while the Philadelphia Stock
Exchange Gold and Silver Index has dropped 38 percent.  The 30 companies in the Philadelphia index  trade  at 1.04
times book value, compared with a 2.48 multiple for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index. The average ratio for the Philadelphia index
in the past 10 years is 2.45, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  There’s an opportunity for gold equities to outperform the
metal, after two years of trailing gold, Sokalsky said.  “Given the valuations where they are now and the fact that
the gold price has come down but the share prices have come down
even more, I do think that there is a good opportunity for some
of that money to come back into the gold equities,” he said.  Pascua-Lama  Barrick hopes to have more clarity within a few months on
the future of Pascua-Lama, which lies on the Chile-Argentina
border, Sokalsky said. The company said April 24 it was
considering options including suspending the project after
construction on the Chilean side was halted because a court
accepted an injunction filed by indigenous communities concerned
about water supplies.  Barrick raised the cost estimate for the project twice last
year and said output would be delayed by more than a year, until
the second half of 2014. The company, which has invested almost
$5 billion in Pascua-Lama, made mistakes at the project,
including how it managed environmental controls, Sokalsky said.  “It’s an important project for us, but we need the further
clarity before we actually spend significant amounts more
money,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  