-- Bernanke Testifies to Joint Economic Committee (Text)
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2013-05-22T14:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/bernanke-testifies-to-joint-economic-committee-text-.html
The following is a reformatted
version of the prepared testimony today of Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to the Joint Economic Committee of
Congress.  Chairman Brady, Vice Chair Klobuchar, and other members of
the Committee, I appreciate this opportunity to discuss the
economic outlook and economic policy.  Current Economic Conditions  Economic growth has continued at a moderate pace so far
this year. Real gross domestic product (GDP) is estimated to
have risen at an annual rate of 2-1/2 percent in the first
quarter after increasing 1-3/4 percent during 2012. Economic
growth in the first quarter was supported by continued expansion
in demand by U.S. households and businesses, which more than
offset the drag from declines in  government spending , especially
defense spending.  Conditions in the job market have shown some improvement
recently. The  unemployment rate , at 7.5 percent in April, has
declined more than 1/2 percentage point since last summer.
Moreover, gains in total nonfarm payroll employment have
averaged more than 200,000 jobs per month over the past six
months, compared with average monthly gains of less than 140,000
during the prior six months. In all, payroll employment has now
expanded by about 6 million jobs since its low point, and the
unemployment rate has fallen 2-1/2 percentage points since its
peak.  Despite this improvement, the job market remains weak
overall: The unemployment rate is still well above its longer-run normal level, rates of long-term unemployment are
historically high, and the labor force participation rate has
continued to move down. Moreover, nearly 8 million people are
working part time even though they would prefer full-time work.
High rates of unemployment and underemployment are
extraordinarily costly: Not only do they impose hardships on the
affected individuals and their families, they also damage the
productive potential of the economy as a whole by eroding
workers’ skills and--particularly relevant during this
commencement season--by preventing many young people from
gaining workplace skills and experience in the first place. The
loss of output and earnings associated with high unemployment
also reduces government revenues and increases spending on
income-support programs, thereby leading to larger budget
deficits and higher levels of public debt than would otherwise
occur.  Consumer price inflation has been low. The  price index  for
personal consumption expenditures rose only 1 percent over the
12 months ending in March, down from about 2-1/4 percent during
the previous 12 months. This slow rate of inflation partly
reflects recent declines in consumer energy prices, but price
inflation for other consumer goods and services has also been
subdued. Nevertheless, measures of longer-term inflation
expectations have remained stable and continue to run in the
narrow ranges seen over the past several years. Over the next
few years, inflation appears likely to run at or below the 2
percent rate that the  Federal Open Market Committee  (FOMC)
judges to be most consistent with the Federal Reserve’s
statutory mandate to foster maximum employment and stable
prices.  Over the nearly four years since the recovery began, the
economy has been held back by a number of headwinds. Some of
these headwinds have begun to dissipate recently, in part
because of the  Federal Reserve ’s highly accommodative  monetary
policy . Notably, the housing market has strengthened over the
past year, supported by low  mortgage rates  and improved
sentiment on the part of potential buyers. Increased housing
activity is fostering  job creation  in construction and related
industries, such as real estate brokerage and home furnishings,
while higher  home prices  are bolstering household finances,
which helps support the growth of private consumption.  Severe fiscal and financial strains in Europe, by weighing
on U.S. exports and financial markets, have also restrained U.S.
economic growth over the past couple of years. However, since
last summer, financial conditions in the euro area have improved
somewhat, which should help mitigate the economic slowdown there
while also reducing the headwinds faced by the  U.S. economy .
Also, credit conditions in the United States have eased for some
types of loans, as bank capital and asset quality have
strengthened.  Fiscal Policy  Fiscal policy, at all levels of government, has been and
continues to be an important determinant of the pace of economic
growth. Federal fiscal policy, taking into account both
discretionary actions and so-called automatic stabilizers, was,
on net, quite expansionary during the recession and early in the
recovery. However, a substantial part of this impetus was offset
by spending cuts and tax increases by state and local
governments, most of which are subject to balanced-budget
requirements, and by subsequent fiscal tightening at the federal
level. Notably, over the past four years, state and local
governments have cut civilian government employment by roughly
700,000 jobs, and total government employment has fallen by more
than 800,000 jobs over the same period. For comparison, over the
four years following the trough of the 2001 recession, total
government employment rose by more than 500,000 jobs.  Most recently, the strengthening economy has improved the
budgetary outlooks of most state and local governments, leading
them to reduce their pace of fiscal tightening. At the same
time, though, fiscal policy at the federal level has become
significantly more restrictive. In particular, the expiration of
the payroll tax cut, the enactment of tax increases, the effects
of the budget caps on discretionary spending, the onset of the
sequestration, and the declines in  defense spending  for overseas
military operations are expected, collectively, to exert a
substantial drag on the economy this year. The  Congressional
Budget Office  (CBO) estimates that the deficit reduction
policies in current law will slow the pace of real GDP growth by
about 1-1/2 percentage points during 2013, relative to what it
would have been otherwise.1 In present circumstances, with
short-term interest rates already close to zero, monetary policy
does not have the capacity to fully offset an economic headwind
of this magnitude.  Although near-term fiscal restraint has increased, much
less has been done to address the federal government’s longer-term fiscal imbalances. Indeed, the CBO projects that, under
current policies, the federal deficit and debt as a percentage
of GDP will begin rising again in the latter part of this decade
and move sharply upward thereafter, in large part reflecting the
aging of our society and projected increases in health-care
costs, along with mounting debt service payments. To promote
economic growth and stability in the longer term, it will be
essential for fiscal policymakers to put the federal budget on a
sustainable long-run path. Importantly, the objectives of
effectively addressing longer-term fiscal imbalances and of
minimizing the near-term fiscal headwinds facing the economic
recovery are not incompatible. To achieve both goals
simultaneously, the Congress and the Administration could
consider replacing some of the near-term fiscal restraint now in
law with policies that reduce the federal deficit more gradually
in the near term but more substantially in the longer run.  Monetary Policy  With unemployment well above normal levels and inflation
subdued, fostering our congressionally mandated objectives of
maximum employment and  price stability  requires a highly
accommodative monetary policy. Normally, the Committee would
provide policy accommodation by reducing its target for the
federal funds rate, thus putting downward pressure on  interest
rates  generally. However, the federal funds rate and other
short-term money market rates have been close to zero since late
2008, so the Committee has had to use other policy tools.  The first of these alternative tools is “forward
guidance” about the FOMC’s likely future target for the federal
funds rate. Since December, the Committee’s postmeeting
statement has indicated that its current target range for the
federal funds rate, 0 to 1/4 percent, will be appropriate “at
least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6-1/2
percent, inflation between one and two years ahead is projected
to be no more than a half percentage point above the Committee’s
2 percent longer-run goal, and longer-term inflation
expectations continue to be well anchored.” This guidance
underscores the Committee’s intention to maintain highly
accommodative monetary policy as long as needed to support
continued progress toward maximum employment and price
stability.  The second policy tool now in use is large-scale purchases
of longer-term  Treasury securities  and agency mortgage-backed
securities (MBS). These purchases put downward pressure on
longer-term interest rates, including mortgage rates. For some
months, the FOMC has been buying longer-term Treasury securities
at a pace of $45 billion per month and agency MBS at a pace of
$40 billion per month. The Committee has said that it will
continue its securities purchases until the outlook for the
labor market has improved substantially in a context of price
stability. The Committee also has stated that in determining the
size, pace, and composition of its asset purchases, it will take
appropriate account of the likely efficacy and costs of such
purchases as well as the extent of progress toward its economic
objectives.  At its most recent meeting, the Committee made clear that
it is prepared to increase or reduce the pace of its asset
purchases to ensure that the stance of monetary policy remains
appropriate as the outlook for the labor market or inflation
changes. Accordingly, in considering whether a recalibration of
the pace of its purchases is warranted, the Committee will
continue to assess the degree of progress made toward its
objectives in light of incoming information. The Committee also
reiterated, consistent with its forward guidance regarding the
federal funds rate, that it expects a highly accommodative
stance of monetary policy to remain appropriate for a
considerable time after the asset purchase program ends and the
economic recovery strengthens.  In the current economic environment, monetary policy is
providing significant benefits. Low real interest rates have
helped support spending on durable goods, such as automobiles,
and also contributed significantly to the recovery in housing
sales, construction, and prices. Higher prices of houses and
other assets, in turn, have increased household wealth and
 consumer confidence , spurring  consumer spending  and contributing
to gains in production and employment. Importantly,
accommodative monetary policy has also helped to offset
incipient deflationary pressures and kept inflation from falling
even further below the Committee’s 2 percent longer-run
objective.  That said, the Committee is aware that a long period of low
interest rates has costs and risks. For example, even as low
interest rates have helped create jobs and supported the prices
of homes and other assets, savers who rely on interest income
from  savings accounts  or  government bonds  are receiving very low
returns. Another cost, one that we take very seriously, is the
possibility that very low interest rates, if maintained too
long, could undermine financial stability. For example,
investors or portfolio managers dissatisfied with low returns
may “reach for yield” by taking on more credit risk, duration
risk, or leverage. The Federal Reserve is working to address
financial stability concerns through increased monitoring, a
more systemic approach to supervising financial firms, and the
ongoing implementation of reforms to make the financial system
more resilient.  Recognizing the drawbacks of persistently low rates, the
FOMC actively seeks economic conditions consistent with
sustainably higher interest rates. Unfortunately, withdrawing
policy accommodation at this juncture would be highly unlikely
to produce such conditions. A premature tightening of monetary
policy could lead interest rates to rise temporarily but would
also carry a substantial risk of slowing or ending the economic
recovery and causing inflation to fall further. Such outcomes
tend to be associated with extended periods of lower, not
higher, interest rates, as well as poor returns on other assets.
Moreover, renewed economic weakness would pose its own risks to
financial stability.  Because only a healthy economy can deliver sustainably high
real rates of return to savers and investors, the best way to
achieve higher returns in the medium term and beyond is for the
Federal Reserve -- consistent with its congressional mandate --
to provide policy accommodation as needed to foster maximum
employment and price stability. Of course, we will do so with
due regard for the efficacy and costs of our policy actions and
in a way that is responsive to the evolution of the economic
outlook.  Footnotes:
1 - See Congressional Budget Office (2013), The Budget and
Economic Outlook: Fiscal Years 2013 to 2023 (Washington: CBO,
February), available at www.cbo.gov/publication/43907.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Washington at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  