-- Better Death Records Can Lead to Longer Life
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-22T22:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/better-death-records-can-lead-to-longer-life.html
Here’s a morbid thought atop a morbid
thought: Two in three deaths worldwide -- some 35 million a year
-- go unregistered. And in many cases when deaths are recorded,
reliable information on what caused them is lacking.  Why does this matter? Without such records, public-health
authorities can’t tell enough about what’s killing people to
minimize the dangers they face.  How, in 2013, can so many people leave the world without
notice? Many poor countries still lack the government systems
and trained workforce to do the job. Doctors, who might best be
counted on to ensure that deaths are recorded, don’t always have
incentive to do so, particularly in the developing world.  The  Global Burden of Disease , a collaboration of
researchers worldwide, estimates cause-of-death statistics for
all countries, but these measurements aren’t perfectly accurate,
because in many countries they can’t be based on actual death
records. Health Metrics Network, a partner with the World Health
Organization that has been largely funded by the Bill & Melinda
Gates Foundation, has helped countries use new tools to assess
and strengthen their record-keeping systems. In recent years,
 Brazil  and South Africa have improved to the point where they
register more than 95 percent of adult deaths and 80 percent or
more of child deaths.  It’s no time to give up the effort. However, the Health
Metrics Network is being disbanded, a victim of leadership
problems and its own lack of success. And 120 countries are
still not keeping adequate death records.  The costs are high. Today,  two-thirds  of the world’s people
die of lifestyle-related causes: heart disease, diabetes, liver
disease and road accidents. Fatal traffic crashes alone have
risen 46 percent since 1990.  There are plenty of ways to steer people away from the
activities that lead to such deaths: smoking, overeating,
alcohol abuse and unsafe driving, to name a few. But it’s
impossible to create targeted public-health policies if you
don’t know exactly what and where the targets should be.  Even those countries that have begun to keep simple track
of deaths have had trouble pinpointing the cause for each
person, because, whether or not a doctor is present, no
diagnosis is made. New “ verbal autopsy ” tools can do the job;
they allow people who have witnessed a death to report symptoms,
which can then be used to determine a cause of death.  Studies 
have found that this approach can be as accurate as a doctor’s
assessment.  What’s needed now is a new organization -- perhaps a
consortium of international public-health experts, but
independent of the WHO and the United Nations -- to drive a
global effort to help all countries keep better track of their
people. The technological capability is there; all that’s
missing is leadership to make full record keeping a priority.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 