-- Blackstone, Prologis Said to Buy Portfolio of Warehouses
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/blackstone-prologis-said-to-buy-portfolio-of-warehouses.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
biggest private-equity firm by assets, and  Prologis Inc. (PLD)  agreed
to buy a portfolio of 17 million square feet (1.6 million square
meters) of warehouses for about $960 million, said two people
with knowledge of the agreement.  Blackstone, based in New York, and San Francisco-based
Prologis will probably complete the acquisition in the third
quarter, according to one of the people, who asked not to be
named because the transaction isn’t public. The portfolio is 80
percent owned by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., with Prologis
holding the rest, the other person said.  Blackstone plans to operate about 9.5 million square feet
of the warehouses and distribution centers in Reno, Nevada, the
people said. Real estate investment trust Prologis will take
over the remainder of the properties, which are located mostly
in Pennsylvania and  Las Vegas , according to the people.  Kim Snyder, president of the southwest region for Prologis,
and  Kimberly Macleod , a spokeswoman for Lehman, declined to
comment on the deal.  Peter Rose , a Blackstone spokesman, didn’t
respond to a request for comment late yesterday.  Reuters reported the agreement yesterday.  Blackstone has been acquiring warehouses since 2010 in a
wager that economic growth coupled with little new construction
will make the properties more valuable. With the latest deal,
the firm will own about 100 million square feet of industrial
space in the U.S. through IndCor Properties Inc., its Chicago-based warehouse unit.  Blackstone also owns about 26 million square feet of
logistics properties in Europe through its London-based LogiCor
unit, which plans to double its holdings through 2015 as it
seeks to profit from rising rents and values, LogiCor Chief
Executive Officer Mo Barzegar said in an April interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  