-- BNY Mellon Increasing Wealth Unit Staff in Revenue Push
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2013-05-22T09:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/bny-mellon-increasing-wealth-unit-staff-in-revenue-push.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
world’s largest custody bank, is hiring as many as 100 people in
its wealth-management unit as it seeks to counter lackluster
earnings in other businesses.  BNY Mellon  Wealth Management will increase its sales force
by 50 percent to about 150 people by the end of 2014, according
to a statement to be released today. The New York-based company
also plans to add 10 private bankers and mortgage bankers
combined, plus additional support staff and portfolio managers.  “The company is supporting a business which is doing
well,” Lawrence Hughes, the unit’s chief executive officer,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s an opportunity for me to
get more people in the markets where wealthy people are.”  Banks including BNY Mellon,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  have focused on wealthy clients since
the 2008 financial crisis after new regulations reduced revenues
from investment banking and trading. Managing money for high-net-worth investors offers the potential for steadier fees and
the chance to take market share in an expanding business.  Growth in the investment and asset-management industries
over the next decade is expected to come from individual
consumers rather than institutions, said Hughes, who is based in
 Boston . More new wealth is being created as the economy
strengthens and BNY Mellon is investing in its unit to capture
those assets, he said.  Revenue Decline  Custody banks such as BNY Mellon have been hurt by interest
rates that have hovered near zero since December 2008, which
force them to waive fees on money funds, hold down revenues from
securities lending and cut yields on their investment
portfolios.  Revenue at BNY Mellon fell 1 percent in the first quarter
to $3.6 billion from a year earlier, driven mainly by a 6
percent decline in net interest revenue, the company said in a
statement last month. Fees for investment management and
performance increased 10 percent year-over-year to $822 million
as of  March 31. (BK)   The bank had $26.3 trillion in assets under custody and
administration and $1.4 trillion in assets under management as
of March 31. The wealth-management unit oversaw more than $188
billion at the end of the first quarter, the company reported.  The hiring plan, which would represent the biggest staff
increase in Hughes’ three years as CEO, contrasts with BNY
Mellon’s job cuts in 2011 and its target to save as much as $700
million in costs by 2015.  Finding Clients  BNY Mellon shares rose 17 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a  29 percent  gain for the Standard &
Poor’s Index of asset managers and custody banks.  The wealth unit has expanded through acquisitions in the
past. Its focus now is on adding staff and entering new markets
to find clients such as retiring executives or those selling
businesses, Hughes said. BNY Mellon Wealth Management has opened
offices in cities including Dallas and  Washington , and in the
Cayman Islands, in the past two years.  The unit has been studying what high-net-worth families
seek from wealth advisers. Tracy Nickl, executive director of
sales, co-wrote a  report  released May 1 that outlines how
advisers can outperform peers and companies can acquire top
talent.  The hiring goal equals about 5 percent of the wealth unit’s
1,900 employees and is already being implemented. Three people
were hired for new sales  positions  in Southern California last
week, Hughes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  