-- BOJ Target at Risk as Spreads Show Tame G-7 Prices: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o ,   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-05-22T03:35:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/boj-target-at-risk-as-spreads-show-tame-g-7-prices-japan-credit.html
Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda’s biggest obstacle to ending deflation may be beyond his
control, judging by the lowest premium in two decades on
developed-nation debt over Japanese bonds.  The extra yield on Group of Seven nations’ notes over
Japan’s narrowed to 61 basis points last week, the lowest since
1990, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data.
While central banks in G-7 countries keep borrowing costs at
record lows and maintain unprecedented stimulus, consumer-price
increases have lost momentum in most of those economies.  The BOJ affirmed its stimulus plan today after a two-day
meeting as slowing price gains abroad highlight the challenge
Kuroda faces in ending more than a decade of deflation.
Economists in a  Bloomberg News  survey forecast Japan’s consumer
prices will rise by less than 0.5 percent by the end of this
year, even after policy makers pledged to fuel 2 percent
inflation in two years by doubling monthly debt purchases.  “When there appear to be signs of disinflation worldwide
in this globalized economy, it’s very difficult for Japan to go
in the opposite direction and have 2 percent inflation,” said
Shuntaro Take, the deputy general manager for the corporate
accounting and investment department at Tokio Marine & Nichido
Life Insurance Co., which manages about $38 billion in  Tokyo .
“The world’s economy lacks vigor.”  The U.S., the U.K.,  Canada  and  France  reported slowing
inflation this month. The G-7 consists of those countries and
 Germany , Italy and  Japan .  Overseas Dependence  The BOJ forecasts Japan’s consumer prices excluding fresh
food will rise 0.7 percent in the year started April 1. The
projection is based on the assumption that growth in overseas
economies, including the U.S., will gradually pick up, according
to a  report  by the central bank released on April 26.  The world’s major economies are running below their full
capacity, according to data from the  International Monetary
Fund . The so-called output gap, a measure of the difference
between actual and potential gross domestic product, will be
negative 4.4 percent in the U.S., negative 1.2 percent in Japan
and negative 0.6 percent in Germany, the IMF forecasts.  “The root cause of the global disinflation is the large
negative output gaps of developed economies,” said  Masamichi Adachi , a senior economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo.
“The labor market is struggling to improve, and wage growth is
sluggish.”  The BOJ will probably have to add to monetary easing as
early as October, he said. The central bank’s price forecasts
that month will indicate the degree of progress that it has made
toward its inflation target.  Softbank Bonds  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Softbank Corp., the
Tokyo-based carrier bidding to take over Sprint Nextel Corp. in
a $20.1 billion deal, plans to sell 400 billion yen ($3.9
billion) of bonds targeting individual investors to fund the
purchase, according to a filing with the Ministry of Finance
yesterday. The company offered 300 billion yen of 1.47 percent,
four-year notes to individuals in February, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings Ltd. offered 10 billion yen of
five-year, 0.594 percent debt, according to a statement
yesterday from Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. The
Tokyo-based department-store operator last offered similar-maturity notes in 2010 that paid 0.97 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Japan’s corporate bonds have handed investors a 0.52
percent loss this month, compared with a 1.67 percent decline
for the nation’s sovereign debt, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. Company notes worldwide have lost 0.57
percent during the period, the data show.  Falling Prices  Kuroda’s stimulus spurred a stock rally and increase in
inflation expectations that pushed up yields on benchmark 10-year reach 0.92 percent on May 15, the highest since April 2012.
It fell 1 1/2 basis points, or 0.015 percentage point, to 0.865
percent today.  Consumer prices  excluding fresh food have fallen
for the past four years in Tokyo, declining 0.3 percent last
month from a year earlier.  Japan’s central bank will expand the supply of money in the
economy by 60 trillion yen to 70 trillion yen a year, as
pledged in April, the BOJ  said  in Tokyo today.  Its meeting will be followed by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s testimony to Congress on the U.S. economic outlook
later today. Investors are weighing when the Fed will reduce its
monthly purchases of $85 billion of government and mortgage debt
each month, the third round of policy known as quantitative
easing, as signs of an improved U.S. job market contrast with a
near-record low of inflation.  Global Stimulus  The  European Central Bank  cut the benchmark rate by a
quarter percentage point to a record 0.5 percent this month. The
 Bank of England  has an asset-purchase target of 375 billion
pounds ($568 billion), while the  Bank of Canada  has kept
borrowing costs at 1 percent since September 2010.  Inflation has yet to pick up in the major economies in
spite of the monetary stimulus.  The U.S. core personal-consumption-expenditures index, the
Fed’s preferred measure of inflation, rose 1.13 percent in
March, near the 47-year low of 1.08 percent in December 2010.
The all-time low was 1.06 percent in 1963. In the euro region,
core  consumer prices  increased 1 percent last month, matching
the slowest pace in three years.  Yield Moves  While 10-year U.S.  Treasury yields  have risen about 32
basis points to 1.93 percent from this year’s low on May 1,
that’s still below the five-year average of 2.78 percent. Rates
on similar-maturity  German debt  were about 24 basis points from
the lowest level since July.  In Japan, the BOJ’s stimulus has helped spur a yen decline
of almost 20 percent in the past six months, with the currency
touching 103.31 per dollar on May 17, the weakest since October
2008. A decline in the yen typically makes local exporters more
competitive while increasing prices of imported goods. It traded
at 102.50 per dollar at 12:21 p.m. in Tokyo today.  The Topix index of Japanese shares has surged 65 percent
since November, the biggest winner among developed markets.  Market expectations of inflation have been rising, with the
 breakeven rate  signaling annual price increases of 1.83 percent
in the next five years, near the most on Bloomberg-compiled data
going back to 2009. The equivalent figure for the U.S. has
declined to 2.01 percent from 2.34 percent at the start of
April. The gauges are derived from the difference between
nominal bond yields and those on inflation-linked debt.  Longest Bonds  Demand declined at a sale of Japan’s 40-year debt yesterday
as a higher inflation outlook made holding the debt less
appealing. The 400 billion yen auction of the nation’s longest-maturity debt drew bids valued 2.64 times the amount available,
the lowest since August 2011.  Japan’s real GDP  expanded  at a 3.5 percent annualized pace
in the first quarter, the fastest rate in a year, government
figures showed last week. The world’s third-largest economy will
probably grow 1.4 percent this year, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “We’ve come far in the stock rally, and the manufacturing
industry has greatly benefited from the weakening yen,” said
 Masaru Hamasaki , a senior strategist at Tokyo-based Sumitomo
Mitsui Asset Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of
$100 billion. “These positive factors will steadily soak into
the tips of the economy, and have a lagging impact on consumer
prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  