-- Brazilian Real Declines to 2013 Low on Bernanke Stimulus Signal
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2013-05-22T20:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/brazilian-real-declines-to-2013-low-on-bernanke-stimulus-signal.html
Brazil ’s real fell to its lowest
level this year as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
signaled the U.S. central bank may taper a stimulus program that
has buoyed emerging-market assets.  The currency depreciated 0.5 percent to 2.0500 per dollar
at 4:41 p.m. in Sao Paulo, the weakest level on a closing basis
since Dec. 31. The real earlier rose 0.4 percent. Swap rates on
the contract due in January were unchanged at 8.13 percent after
falling five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point.  The real dropped for a seventh day in its longest stretch
of losses since November as Bernanke said in congressional
testimony that the Fed will scale back asset purchases if the
U.S. labor market keeps improving.  “The currency is in line with the external market, which
is reacting to Bernanke,” Joao Paulo de Gracia Correa, the head
of  currency trading  at Correparti Corretora, said by phone from
Curitiba, Brazil. “A lot of investors think the Fed could start
reducing bond purchases at the next meeting.”  Brazil’s central bank reported today that the country’s
current account deficit widened to $8.32 billion in April from
$6.87 billion in the prior month. It was bigger than the
$7.24 billion median forecast of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega , speaking to reporters in
Brasilia today, said increased global liquidity because of
 Japan ’s monetary policy hasn’t led to an exaggerated flow of
dollars into Brazil.  The real has traded in a range of 1.94 to 2.05 this year as
policy makers fluctuated between selling currency swaps to
prevent it from falling too much and offering reverse swaps to
protect exporters by reining in gains.  Slowing Inflation  Shorter-term swap rates fell earlier today after a report
showed inflation slowed, spurring speculation that policy makers
will limit increases in borrowing costs.  Consumer prices , as measured by the IPCA-15 index, climbed
0.46 percent in the month through mid-May after rising 0.51
percent in the prior period, the national statistics agency
reported today in  Rio de Janeiro . The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.49 percent
increase. Annual inflation slowed to 6.46 percent, within the
central bank’s target range of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent, from
6.49 percent at the end of April.  Policy makers raised the target lending rate last month by
a quarter-percentage point to 7.50 percent to curb inflation.
The central bank’s board next meets May 28-29.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in  Sao Paulo  at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  