-- Brazil Scheduled to Get LNG Cargo at Guanabara Bay From Nigeria
-- B y   C h o u   H u i   H o n g
-- 2013-05-22T02:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/brazil-scheduled-to-get-lng-cargo-at-guanabara-bay-from-nigeria.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA,  Brazil ’s
importer of liquefied natural gas known as Petrobras, is
scheduled to receive a spot cargo from Nigeria over the weekend,
according to ship-tracking data.  The LNG Lagos, with a capacity of 122,255 cubic meters,
arrived May 19 at Rio de Janeiro and will discharge its cargo on
May 26, according to ship transmissions captured by IHS Fairplay
on Bloomberg. The tanker sailed from Nigeria LNG Ltd.’s Bonny
Island terminal, where it loaded the supercooled natural gas on
May 4.  A Petrobras official in Houston and Kudo Eresia-Eke, an
Abuja-based spokesman at Nigeria LNG, didn’t immediately respond
to e-mails seeking comment outside normal working hours.  Brazil’s driest rainy season in a decade has reduced
hydropower supply, boosting the country’s LNG demand,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said in a Jan. 28 note. Petrobras has a
floating regasification terminal at Guanabara Bay near  Rio de
Janeiro .  Brazil doesn’t have long-term LNG supply contracts with
Nigeria, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nigeria LNG, Africa’s largest exporter of the fuel, said it
declared force majeure May 15 on exports after  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA)  discovered a pipeline leak and halted deliveries.  The declaration followed Shell’s shutdown of its Gbaran
Ubie and Soku gas facility after the pipeline leak, Eresia-Eke
said May 17 in an e-mail. Force majeure is a legal step that
protects a company from liability when it can’t fulfill a
contract for reasons beyond its control.  Latin America’s LNG import capacity will increase to 49.2
million metric tons a year in 2020 from a projected 30 million
this year, Anton Safronov,  Total SA’s (FP)  LNG origination director,
said May 9 in  Singapore .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chou Hui Hong in Singapore at 
 chong43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  