-- Brian Urlacher Retires From NFL After 13 Seasons With Bears
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-22T15:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/brian-urlacher-retires-from-nfl-after-13-seasons-with-bears.html
Brian Urlacher said he’s retiring
from the  National Football League  after a 13-year career with
the  Chicago Bears  in which he was named an All-Pro four times.  Urlacher’s decision comes two months after he was unable to
agree on a new contract with the Bears.  The 34-year-old linebacker at the time was quoted by the
 Chicago Tribune  as saying the team’s one-year contract offer
with a maximum salary of $2 million was “insulting.” Urlacher
had initially sought a two-year, $11.5 million deal.  “Although I could continue playing, I’m not sure I would
bring a level of performance or passion that’s up to my
standards,” Urlacher said in a  statement . “When considering
this, along with the fact that I could retire after a 13-year
career wearing only one jersey for such a storied franchise, my
decision became pretty clear.”  Urlacher made $7.5 million last season, when he missed the
entire offseason training program and preseason with a knee
injury. After returning to the field, he was leading the team in
tackles before being forced to sit out the team’s final four
games with a hamstring injury.  Urlacher was selected by Chicago with the ninth overall
pick in the 2000  NFL draft  and was voted the Associated Press
Defensive Rookie of the Year. In 2005, he won the league’s top
defensive player honor and the following season helped the Bears
reach the  Super Bowl , where they lost to the  Indianapolis Colts .  “He’s a Hall of Famer in my opinion,” former Bears coach
Mike Ditka said on ESPN.  Urlacher totaled 41 1/2 sacks and 22 interceptions over 182
games with the Bears.  “I will miss my teammates, my coaches and the great Bears
fans,” Urlacher said. “I’m proud to say that I gave all of you
everything I had every time I took the field. I will miss this
great game, but I leave it with no regrets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  