-- Britvic Gains as Cost Cutting Plans Reduce Merger Uncertainty
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-05-22T10:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/britvic-gains-as-cost-cutting-plans-reduce-merger-uncertainty.html
Britvic Plc (BVIC) , the U.K. maker of
Robinsons Barley Water, rose the most in more than eight months
after saying it will shut factories and reduce staff after
abandoning a merger with  A.G. Barr Plc. (BAG)   Britvic rose as much as 11 percent in London, the biggest
gain since it said it received an approach from the Cumbernauld,
Scotland-based soft-drink maker in September. Almost 1.2 million
shares traded, more than double the three month daily average.
The shares traded 9.2 percent higher at 515.5 pence by 11.02
a.m., the highest since July 2010.  Britvic will close two factories in  Great Britain  and a
warehouse in  Northern Ireland  in a move to deliver annual
savings of 30 million pounds ($45.3 million) a year from 2016,
the company said in a statement today. It will also invest 10
million pounds a year by 2015 in its international business as
it seeks to tap “increasingly attractive” growth prospects
outside the more competitive U.K. market.  The announcement indicates that Britvic may have given up
on a potential merger with A.G. Barr and instead opted to prune
its cost base, analysts said. The company agreed to merge with
the maker of Irn-Bru fizzy drinks in November before scrapping
plans three months later after the U.K. Office of Fair Trading
said it would refer the proposed deal to the  Competition
Commission . The watchdog cited a possible reduction in
competition between Pepsi and Tango, which Britvic sells in the
U.K., and A.G. Barr’s Irn-Bru and Orangina.  Clearly Significant  “The 30 million pounds of identified cost savings are
clearly significant and essentially means that Britvic no longer
needs to merge with A.G. Barr,” Jonathan Fyfe, an analyst at
Mirabaud in London, wrote in a note to clients today.  Britvic and A.G. Barr may revive merger plans if the
competition review reaches a favorable conclusion, they said in
February, and London-based Britvic expects a decision by the end
of July.  “We now see the likelihood here as small (under 10
percent) as Britvic appears to be capturing some of the
perceived benefits by itself,”  Ian Shackleton , an analyst at
Nomura, wrote in a note to clients today.  A.G. Barr’s  shares  traded up 1 percent at 580 pence.  Britvic, under new Chief Executive Officer Simon Litherland, plans to close its Chelmsford and Huddersfield
plants in  England  in the first quarter of 2014 and combine its
U.K. and Ireland teams. It will also shut a  Belfast , Ireland-based warehouse in the fourth quarter of 2013.  Job Cuts  The changes will cost 40 million pounds and will result in
job cuts of between 10 and 15 percent of staff, Britvic said.
The company reported earnings before interest and taxes of 52
million pounds in the 28 weeks to April 14, an increase of 29
percent from the first half of 2012.  Britvic also said today it expects full-year earnings
before interest and taxes to be at the “upper end” of a prior
forecast range of 125 million pounds to 131 million pounds.  “While the cost savings plan is a positive (and shows the
new CEO has hit the ground running), it could mean that a
possible merger with A.G. Barr is less likely,” Olivier Nicolai, an analyst at UBS AG in  London , wrote today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  