-- British WWII Spying in U.S. Shown in Secret Files
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-05-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/british-wwii-spying-in-u-s-shown-in-secret-files.html
Britain’s World War II spying on U.S.
isolationist groups and its propaganda efforts against them were
revealed in secret archives published for the first time today.  The declassified documents at the  National Archives  in
London show how  Winston Churchill  was sent a report on a 1940
private phone call between President  Franklin D. Roosevelt ,
Secretary of State Cordell Hull, and  Joe Kennedy , the U.S.
ambassador to London, during which they discussed options “if
Europe is overrun” by  Nazi Germany .  The following year, British agents in the U.S. compiled a
four-inch-thick dossier on America First, a group urging the
U.S. to stay out of what was then a European war. It included
private correspondence and mailing lists. Meanwhile, British
diplomats paid for propaganda on the other side of the argument
and considered secretly funding sympathetic groups.  The money spent in the U.S. was nothing to the sums
authorized by Churchill to be spent keeping Spain out of the
war. At least $14 million was passed to a group of Spanish
generals as a bribe to persuade the dictator General  Francisco Franco  to stay neutral, the archive files show.  When U.S. officials began inquiries into Juan March, the
conduit for this cash, British agents resolved the Americans
should be told “as little as possible.”  The documents released today cover Britain’s intelligence
work from 1903 to 1951. They also include discussion of whether
to assassinate German officials working in  France  ahead of the
D-Day invasion in 1944, a plan that was rejected.  Literary Agent  In the files is a memo, apparently from Jacques Chambrun, a
 New York  literary agent offering to sell articles from prominent
Britons putting their side of the argument for fighting  Germany 
into U.S. magazines. He wrote that this would raise $30,000 a
month for Britain, if he was given pieces by Churchill and King George VI -- and if he was given a fee of 10 percent.  “In many cases an article dull, weightless, seemingly
pointless to read can be transformed into a vigorous and
unforgettable message by the judicious cutting and substitution
of words to meet the American tempo,” Chambrun wrote.  While the Secret Intelligence Service and British diplomats
were enthusiastic about the idea, it’s not clear what came of
it. Chambrun became notorious after the war for stealing from
his clients.  In early 1941, a memo was sent to Foreign Secretary Anthony
Eden, proposing the U.K. channel $10,000 to a sympathetic
American businessman who wanted to lobby in favor of the Lend-Lease Bill, which Roosevelt used to send support to Britain.
Eden replied, in a message coded “most immediate, most
secret,” telling officials not to hand over the money.  “I feel gravest apprehension at action taken which if it
ever became known must surely have most serious repercussions,”
Eden wrote.  The question of whether the U.S. would enter the war was
settled neither by America First nor by British propaganda, and
instead by the Japanese attack on  Pearl Harbor  on Dec. 7, 1941.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  