-- Bruins Close to Eliminating Rangers; Sharks Win in NHL Playoffs
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-05-22T05:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/bruins-win-2-1-to-leave-rangers-of-brink-of-sweep-in-nhl-playoff.html
The  Boston Bruins  moved within one
victory of eliminating the  New York Rangers  in their National
Hockey League playoff series, while the  San Jose Sharks  evened
their series against the  Los Angeles Kings .  In tonight’s game, the Ottawa Senators host the Pittsburgh
Penguins, who have a two-games-to-one lead in their best-of-seven Eastern Conference semifinal series.  The Bruins, who won 2-1, lead the series by three games to
none and can advance to the Eastern Conference finals with a
victory in New York in Game 4 tomorrow. The Sharks won 2-1 to
even their Western Conference series at 2-2 against the Kings.  “You can’t look at it as you have to win four games, you
just have to focus on the next one,” said Rangers goalie  Henrik Lundqvist .  “The season is on the line, so you have to leave
everything out there. Preparation and the effort have to be
there, and we will see if it’s going to be enough.”  Taylor Pyatt scored for the Rangers after three minutes, 53
seconds of the second period at Madison Square Garden in New
York. Johnny Boychuk tied it 3:10 into the third period and
Daniel Paille got the decisive goal with 3:31 to play.  “At times we struggled to get through and when we got
through we just didn’t sustain our forecheck,” said Rangers
coach  John Tortorella . “A team that is rolling their lines like
they are, we need to have some time in their end zone. As the
game went on we were there less and less. So it pops up on
you.”  The teams are vying for the right to play the Penguins or
the Senators for a place in the Stanley Cup finals.  At HP Pavilion in San Jose, California, Brent Burns gave
the Sharks a 1-0 lead 6:09 into the first period, and Logan Couture scored on a power-play in the second period.  Mike Richards  scored midway through the final period for
the Kings, who host Game 5 tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  