-- Cable Companies Chafe as Low-Rated Channels Change Names
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-05-22T20:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/cable-companies-chafe-as-low-rated-channels-change-brand-names.html
Cable networks are rebranding
themselves, and pay-TV operators aren’t pleased.  At least six channels are changing their names and
programming this year to attract more viewers, advertising
dollars and higher subscriber fees. News Corp.’s Speed, for
instance, will become Fox Sports 1 in August.  DirecTV (DTV)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , two of the largest U.S.
pay-TV services with 32 million total subscribers, complain they
have no control over the changes and are wary the networks will
demand more money for unproven shows. The companies agreed to
carry specific content, their executives said. Now they’re
saddled with programming they didn’t order, and unsure they can
pass on future fee increases to customers.  “You bargain for a specific service that you were pitched
to meet the needs of consumers,” Dan York, head of programming
for El Segundo, California-based DirecTV, said in an interview.
“If that doesn’t work, it doesn’t mean the content provider has
a unilateral right to turn it into something else or even call
it something else.”  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s decision to change its Nascar-focused Speed
into the all-sports Fox Sports 1 starting Aug. 17 marks an
effort to turn a channel with low ratings into one that rivals
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN.  ESPN, the most-watched sports network, reaches about 100
million homes, collects $5.54 a month per subscriber and had
2012 revenue of $7.83 billion, according to research firm SNL
Kagan. Fox’s Speed network is in 86 million households and
charges 31 cents a month, SNL Kagan said.  News Corp. was little changed at $33.22 at the close in New
York. DirecTV fell 1.6 percent to $63.97, while Time Warner
Cable fell 1.5 percent to $95.56.  ‘Enough Passion’  “Our job is to create value for News Corp.,” Randy Freer,
co-president of Fox Sports Media Group, said in an interview.
“To create asset value, you need to create programming that
people want to watch. If people aren’t watching in either large
enough numbers or with enough passion, then you have to evaluate
where you can go in this landscape.”  Distributors didn’t always pay for programming. In cable’s
early days, programmers like Turner Broadcasting and ESPN built
audiences by charging pay-TV operators little or nothing to
secure carriage. Additional viewers meant higher advertising
revenue to pay for new shows.  “The single hardest hurdle is to get your distribution,”
John Skipper, president of Bristol, Connecticut-based ESPN, said
in an interview. “Taking a channel and creating something that
will be better is good for fans and it’s good for
distributors.”  FXX Channel  Big programmers typically package new channels with must-haves like Fox News or  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s USA. In addition to Fox
Sports 1, New York-based News Corp. plans to change Fox Soccer
into FXX, an entertainment channel for younger audiences with
shows such as “It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia.” It also
will introduce a second sports channel, Fox Sports 2, in August.  Comcast’s NBC Universal changed Versus into the NBC Sports
Network last year. This year it’s switching G4 to the Esquire
Network, with upscale programs for men.  Other changes are coming from new owners.  CBS Corp. (CBS) 
acquired 50 percent of TV Guide Network in March and plans to
revamp it into a new entertainment channel. Al Jazeera bought Al Gore’s Current TV in January with plans to rechristen it as Al
Jazeera America.  Some of the rebranding is driven by pressure on networks
from pay-TV operators to improve their ratings, DirecTV Chief
Executive Officer Mike White said in an interview.  ‘Actual Numbers’  “Every negotiation we have now is data-based,” White
said. “It’s different than the old days of getting in a smoke-filled room and hammering out a contract. The programmers are
realizing they need to deliver with actual numbers.”  That’s especially true for independent owners like Al
Jazeera, which lacks the clout of companies with multiple
networks, such  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , owner of TBS, CNN and  HBO .  When Al Jazeera acquired Current TV and announced its
intentions to turn the channel into Al Jazeera America, Time
Warner Cable stopped carrying the network. Time Warner Cable and
Cox Communications Inc., the third-largest U.S. cable provider,
also dropped Mark Cuban’s HDNet before it became AXS TV.  Carriage is “not a birthright,” Glenn Britt, CEO of New
York-based Time Warner Cable, said in December, as a warning to
low-rated networks that they’re at risk of being dropped by the
New York-based cable provider.  Pay-TV providers should press for agreements that let them
drop rebranded networks, said Melinda Witmer, Time Warner
Cable’s chief video and content officer. Most contracts require
them to pay the old affiliate fees, according to David Bank, an
analyst at RBC Capital Markets in New York.  Discovery’s Strategy  Programmers still face the task of drawing more viewers, a
prerequisite for growth in ad sales and fees.  Discovery Communications Inc. (DISCA)  has been one of the most
aggressive rebranders, according to Jaison Blair, an analyst at
Telsey Advisory Group in New York. Investigation Discovery had
prior identities in the past 10 years as Discovery Civilization
and Discovery Times.  More recently, Discovery Health became the Oprah Winfrey
Network and Discovery Kids turned into the Hub. Discovery, based
in Silver Spring,  Maryland , hasn’t lost coverage by avoiding
fights and blackouts with cable operators and agreeing to
reasonable rate increases, he said.  “Anytime a network is taking real estate and investing in
original programming, that’s good for the TV ecosystem,” Blair
said. “The stress comes when there’s a major step-up in
rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  