-- Cameron Pledges to Avoid Upsetting Tories Anymore
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-05-22T10:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/cameron-pledges-to-avoid-upsetting-tories-anymore.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
said he’ll seek to avoid stoking division in his Conservative
Party after arguments over Europe and gay marriage, as his
Liberal Democrat deputy called on the Tories to cease their
bickering.  Cameron’s Conservative lawmakers are concerned about their
electoral chances after a surge in support for the U.K.
Independence Party, which calls for British withdrawal from the
European Union. Cameron has had to rely on the opposition Labour
Party twice in a week to outvote Tory rebels who disagree with
his policies on the EU and on legalizing same-sex marriages.  “Is this the first now of many other issues like that?”
Cameron said on  BBC  Radio 4’s “Today” program, referring to
gay marriage. “No, it isn’t. The government now is going to be
absolutely focused on the big picture, which is fixing our
economy, reforming welfare, making sure there are good schools
for our children to go to.”  Cameron spoke shortly before Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, the leader of the Liberal Democrats in the coalition,
gave a speech attacking Tory “parliamentary game-playing.”
Some Tory lawmakers proposed amendments this week seeking to
wreck Cameron’s bill giving gay couples the same marriage rights
as heterosexuals, a measure supported by Clegg’s party. The
House of Commons approved the proposal yesterday.  Clegg also hit back at Tory Education Secretary Michael Gove, who said May 12 that the Liberal Democrat leader faces
plots by members of his own party.  ‘Internal Woes’  “Anyone who is spending their time war-gaming about what
may happen to my leadership is wasting their time,” Clegg told
reporters after his speech in  London . He said he’d continue as
leader after the 2015 election and that stories in newspapers
last week about a possible early end to the coalition came from
Tories “trying to distract from their internal woes.”  Clegg said the coalition would continue until the last
possible moment in 2015. Asked if he would engage in pre-election talks with opposition Labour Party leader Ed Miliband,
Clegg said he would instead spell out his party’s “red lines”
for joining a future coalition with either Labour or the Tories.  He declined to set out what those red lines would be,
though he said a “mansion tax” -- a levy on the most expensive
residential properties -- was likely to be in the party’s
election manifesto.  ‘Life Left’  Cameron also said today his government with the Liberal
Democrats would last the full term, telling the BBC that “to
anyone who doubts there is life left in the coalition, I would
argue there’s more to come.”  On Europe, the premier said his party has “managed to have
a disagreement on a subject that we actually agree about.” Tory
lawmakers have been pushing for legislation soon to allow a
popular vote on leaving the EU.  “This policy is not going to change, the numbers of
referendums is not going to change, the date by which we hold
the referendum is not going to change,” Cameron said. He denied
that anyone in his inner circle believes that Tory activists are
“mad swivel-eyed loons,” following newspaper reports that one
of his advisers made the comment to reporters.  “I think of the volunteers in my own constituency, they
are not just my friends and my supporters, I feel I am one of
them. If I wasn’t a member of Parliament I would be with them,
supporting their member of Parliament,” Cameron said.  Asked by reporters if Cameron is a weak leader, Clegg said
Cameron is a “good prime minister” who is “having to navigate
very choppy waters within his own party.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  