-- Canada Stocks Rise as Metals Producers Gain, Energy Shares Fall
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-05-22T20:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/canadian-stocks-advance-as-gold-rallies-on-bernanke-testimony.html
Canadian  stocks  rose for a fourth
day, with a rally in metals miners offsetting losses among banks
and oil producers, as investors weighed the pacing of U.S.
central-bank stimulus measures.  First Quantum Minerals (FM)  Ltd. and Teck Resources Ltd. gained
at least 1.7 percent as the price of copper advanced to a five-week high amid supply concerns.  Copper Mountain Mining Corp. (CUM) 
jumped 9.3 percent after repairing a transformer at its mine
sooner than it estimated. Barrick Gold Corp. and Goldcorp Inc.
increased more than 1.7 percent even as the metal’s price
declined. Royal Bank of Canada, the nation’s largest lender,
dropped 0.6 percent and Suncor Energy Inc. lost 1 percent.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  rose 10.07
points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,752.50 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, after
gaining as much as 1.2 percent earlier in the session. The
benchmark equity gauge has added 2.2 percent over four trading
days. Trading volume was 17 percent higher than the 30-day
average.  “We started off fairly positively this morning with the
Bernanke comments,” said Youssef Zohny, portfolio manager with
Stenner Investment Partners of Richardson GMP Ltd. in  Vancouver .
Richardson GMP manages about C$15 billion ($14.4 billion).
“With the FOMC minutes, we saw them talk of more stabilization,
of a more positive outlook to the economy, and markets are
taking that as less stimulus. In the medium to long term it’s
positive, but any comments on less stimulus are a short-term
negative.”  A number of Federal Reserve officials said they were
willing to taper bond buying as early as the next policy-maker
meeting in June if economic reports show “evidence of
sufficiently strong and sustained growth,” according to minutes
from the April 30-May 1 gathering released today.  Bernanke Testimony  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said earlier in testimony
prepared for a Congressional hearing today that a premature
withdrawal of stimulus would put the U.S. economic recovery at
risk. The banker later told lawmakers that as the outlook for
the labor market “improves in a real and sustainable way, the
committee will reduce the flow of purchases.”  Gold rallied more than 2.5 percent following the prepared
statements, but turned lower as Bernanke answered questions from
lawmakers about the possible timing of reducing the rate of bond
purchases. The metal settled down 0.7 percent to $1,367.40 in
New York and maintained losses after the Fed minutes were
released at 2 p.m.  “The news today is very clearly that, you taper off bond
buying there’s less liquidity and it’s not good for gold,” said
Jeffrey Burchell, a fund manager with Aston Hill Financial Inc.
in Toronto. His firm manages about C$7 billion. The rise in
miner stocks is “a bounce off the bottom for gold producers,
they’ve been so beaten up,” he said.  Materials Rally  The S&P/TSX Materials Index rallied 1.7 percent, extending
yesterday’s 1.6 percent advance. The gauge has fallen 23 percent
this year as the price of gold retreated into a bear market.
Barrick Gold added 1.7 percent to C$20.21 and Goldcorp rose 3.1
percent to C$28.19.  Kirkland Lake Gold Inc. (KGI)  jumped 13 percent to C$4.22 for the
biggest gain in the benchmark equity index. The company said
yesterday it met its 2012 target for replacing proven and
probable reserves mined by the company at its complex in
Kirkland Lake, Ontario. Barrick is down 42 percent this year and
Goldcorp has fallen 23 percent.  Copper Advances  First Quantum Minerals gained 1.7 percent to C$19.22 and
Teck Resources rallied 3.4 percent to C$29.46. Copper futures
rose 0.7 percent at 4:40 p.m. in New York. The industrial metal
earlier touched a five-week high of $3.418 a pound on mounting
concern that a deadly accident at the world’s second-biggest
mine may crimp supplies as a recovering housing market boosts
demand in the U.S.  Sales of existing U.S. homes in April were the highest
since November 2009, a report from the National Association of
Realtors showed today.  Copper Mountain Mining soared 9.3 percent to C$1.77 after
the company said it replaced a damaged transformer at its mine
in southern British Columbia and had resumed operations earlier
than previously estimated. The stock fell 9.5 percent May 17;
the company disclosed the transformer problem May 16 after the
end of regular trading.  Royal Bank dropped 0.6 percent to C$63.46 and the Bank of
Nova Scotia declined 0.4 percent to C$59.49 as financial stocks
retreated 0.3 percent, the first decline in four days.  Suncor lost 1 percent to C$32.50 and Pembina Pipeline Corp.
fell 2.7 percent to C$34.66. Crude for July delivery fell the
most in three weeks as a government report showed U.S. gasoline
supplies unexpectedly gained and crude stockpiles declined less
than expected. The dollar strengthened on Bernanke’s comments,
accelerating oil’s drop.  Catamaran Corp., a drug-benefits manager, slumped 2.5
percent to C$50.42, its lowest close since January. UBS analyst
Steven Valiquette said the company is at risk of losing its
contract with Cigna Corp.’s HealthSpring PBM when the deal
expires at the end of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  