-- Canada Dollar Falls to 1-Year Low as Bernanke Hints at Tapering
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-05-22T21:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/canadian-dollar-trades-at-almost-2-month-low-before-retail-data.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped to an almost
one-year low versus its U.S. peer after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said monthly bond purchases may be reduced if
the economy shows sustained growth.  The currency declined earlier after Canadian retail sales
stagnated in March, boosting bets the Bank of Canada will
reverse its bias to raise  interest rates . It remained lower as
the minutes of the Fed’s last meeting showed a number of
officials were willing to taper bond buying as early as the next
meeting on evidence of sustained growth. The so-called loonie
fell against the majority of its 16 most-traded peers as oil,
the nation’s largest export, dropped for a second day.  “You’re seeing a bit of a selloff after Bernanke made that
clarifying comment that, if things do look a little bit better,
there’s the potential for tapering,” Emanuella Enenajor, an
economist at  CIBC World Markets , said by phone from Toronto.
“It hit commodities, it hit risk-correlated currencies, as
well. So you saw the Aussie take a hit, you saw the U.S. dollar
see a little support and, of course, you saw the Canadian dollar
lose a little support.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed, fell 1
percent to C$1.0367 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It
touched C$1.0388, the weakest level since June 5, 2012. One
loonie buys 96.46 U.S. cents.  Crude-oil  futures  tumbled 2.2 percent to $94.06 a barrel in
 New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks erased
earlier gains to drop 0.8 percent.  Bond Auction  Canada’s 10-year government  bonds  declined, with yields
adding six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1.97
percent. The 1.5 percent security maturing in June 2023 lost 50
cents to C$95.80.  The  Bank of Canada  sold C$1.4 billion of securities
maturing in December 2045 with an average yield of 2.546
percent. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was 2.47
versus 2.36 at the previous auction of the securities on March
13. The current 30-year security yielded 2.56 percent.  The cost to insure against declines in the Canadian dollar
versus its U.S. counterpart fell from its highest point in more
than eight months. The three-month 25-delta risk reversal rate
fell to 1.6 percent, after touching 1.7 percent May 17, the
highest since Aug. 31.  Canadian  retail sales  were little changed at C$39.5 billion
($38.4 billion),  Statistics Canada  said in Ottawa, following a
revised 0.7 percent increase the prior month. Economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  forecast a 0.1 percent gain, based on
the median of 24 projections.  ‘Hawkish Bias’  The report “raises questions about the bias of the Bank of
Canada, the hawkish bias -- is this something that can or will
be changed in the next few months?” Jane Foley, senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International, said by phone from  London .
“There is a minority opinion out there that suggests it should
be changed, and I’d suggest that if we do keep on getting weaker
numbers, that call will get stronger.”  The retail-sales report is among the last economic readings
before Stephen Poloz takes over as Bank of Canada governor on
June 3, after predecessor  Mark Carney  leaves to run the  Bank of
England . Carney’s warning that he may raise rates, repeated at
every meeting for the past year, has helped push up the Canadian
dollar and undermine exporters at a time when growth is
flagging.  The Bank of Canada has held its overnight rate at  1 percent 
since September 2010, where it is forecast to remain through the
rest of the year by 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bernanke ‘Wrench’  The loonie briefly erased a decline against its U.S. peer
after Bernanke said a premature end to monetary stimulus would
endanger the U.S. economic recovery. The currency then retraced
the move as the Fed chief testified that, as the outlook for the
 labor market  “improves in a real and sustainable way, the
committee will reduce the flow of purchases.”  Bernanke threw a “monkey wrench into the mix,”  Adrian Miller , director of fixed-income strategy at GMP Securities LLC,
said by phone from New York. “By the market’s interpretation of
his comments saying cuts are going to come sooner rather than
later, the dollar then rises because its less debasing, and then
that smacks the commodities market, and everything that’s
attached to the commodities market. And the loonie is attached
to the commodities market.”  The minutes showed that many Fed officials said more
progress in the labor market is needed before deciding to slow
the pace of asset purchases.  The loonie has gained 0.5 percent in the past month against
nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has fallen 4.4
percent while the  U.S. dollar  has gained 1.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  