-- Canada Retail Sales Stall as Autos Gain and Fuel Drops
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-05-22T14:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/canada-retail-sales-stall-in-march-as-autos-gain-and-fuel-drops.html
Canadian  retail sales  stalled in
March after gains in the prior two months, as increases in auto
and clothing receipts were offset by lower gasoline prices.  Sales were little changed at C$39.5 billion ($38.4
billion),  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa, following a
revised 0.7 percent increase in the prior month. The volume of
sales, which strips out the impact of price changes, rose 0.7
percent.  “The March report wasn’t as bad as suggested by the
headline results,”  Krishen Rangasamy , senior economist at
National Bank Financial in Montreal, wrote in a note to clients.
After adjusting for prices, first-quarter retail sales growth
accelerated to 1.8 percent from 0.9 percent at the end of last
year, he said.  The data is one of the last before Statistics Canada
reports first quarter growth on May 31, and economists surveyed
by Bloomberg say it will show acceleration to a 2 percent
annualized pace from 0.6 percent at the end of last year. Bank
of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  is counting on moderate  consumer
spending  to support growth, even as he says households need to
stabilize record debt burdens.  Economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  forecast a 0.1
percent gain in retail sales, based on the median of 24
projections.  Currency Reaction  Canada’s dollar initially sold off after the report,
dropping to as low as C$1.0329 per  U.S. dollar , the lowest since
March 7, before rebounding to C$1.0273, little changed on the
day, at 10:17 a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys 97.31
U.S. cents.  Sales at clothing and accessory stores increased 3.1
percent to C$2.27 billion, Statistics Canada said.  Motor vehicle and parts dealer receipts grew 0.7 percent to
C$8.91 billion in March. Excluding that category,  sales 
decreased 0.2 percent, while  economists (CARSCHNG)  predicted an increase of
the same magnitude.  Gasoline station  sales fell 1.3 percent to C$5 billion in
March, as prices declined. Sales of food, the largest category,
fell 0.l percent to C$9 billion.  Sales in March advanced 1.1 percent from a year earlier,
Statistics Canada said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  