-- Canada’s Bond-Dumping Frenzy Escalates as Pensions Unload
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r   a n d   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-05-22T16:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/canada-s-bond-dumping-frenzy-escalates-as-pensions-sell.html
Canada’s biggest pension-fund manager
will “significantly” cut its C$64 billion ($62.3 billion)
allocation to  bonds  as the fixed-income market’s foothold among
its most loyal base of investors grows less certain.  Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec Chief Executive
Officer  Michael Sabia  said he’s scaling back fixed-income
investments that account for 36 percent of its C$176 billion of
assets under management, joining the Canadian units of HSBC
Global Asset Management and Sun Life Global Investments Inc.,
which combined oversee about C$20 billion of assets. Canadian
government bond yields have fallen to almost record lows,
draining income for pension funds that have traditionally relied
on fixed-income to fund decades-long pension liabilities.  “We are not going to exit fixed income, but we are now
significantly reducing the weight of fixed income in our
portfolio for a variety of reasons having to do with where we
see yields over the next number of years,” Sabia said at the
Bloomberg Economic Summit yesterday in Toronto.  Investors worldwide are struggling to meet minimum return
targets after central banks cut benchmark rates more than 500
times since the financial crisis erupted in June 2007. The
Caisse earned 3.9 percent from fixed income last year, compared
with 13.6 percent for private equity. It plans to add C$10
billion to C$12 billion in what it calls less-liquid investments
in the next two years.  ‘Risky Market’  The average yield in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch
Global Broad Market Index reached 1.51 percent May 2, its lowest
since records began in 1996, while returns in the index at 0.8
percent this year are trailing equities. The MSCI World Index is
up about 14 percent in 2013.  “The fixed-income market itself is a risky market with the
level of yields as they are today,”  Michael Wilson , chairman of
 Barclays Capital  in Canada and a former Canadian finance
minister, said yesterday at the summit. “Investors and
particularly insurance funds have to be careful as so much of
their funds are in yield-based products.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the  Bank of Canada  auctioned
C$1.4 billion of long bonds today. The 3.5 percent securities
maturing in December 2045 fetched an average yield of 2.546
percent, with a coverage ratio -- the amount bid relative to the
amount for sale -- of 2.47 times. The previous auction of 30-year debt, on March 13, fetched an average yield of 2.62 percent
and a coverage ratio of 2.36 times.  Spreads, Yields  The extra yield investors demand to own the debt of
Canadian investment-grade corporations rather than the federal
government was unchanged at 118 basis points, or 1.18 percentage
points, yesterday from a day earlier, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch  Canada  Corporate Index. Yields were little
changed at 2.8 percent.  Spreads on provincial bonds were unchanged at 70 basis
points, according to Bank of America’s Canadian Provincial &
Municipal Index, while yields held steady at 2.54 percent.  Corporate debt has returned 1.9 percent this year, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. Provincial securities
have gained 0.8 percent, and federal-government bonds have added
0.2 percent.  The Bank of Canada on April 17 held its benchmark overnight
 rate  at 1 percent, where it’s been since September 2010 and
where 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast it will
remain through the rest of the year.  ‘Less Convinced’  Money managers in  North America  are giving about equal
weighting to bonds and stocks this year, with fixed-income funds
attracting $67.5 billion of net inflows through May 9 compared
with $66.3 billion for equity funds, according to  Cameron Brandt , director of research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. Last year, investors
yanked $82 billion from North American stock funds, while adding
$315 billion to bond funds, EPFR said.  “We are less and less convinced that markets per se are
the best arbiters of value,” Sabia of the Caisse said.
Benchmarking performance to market indexes “is not a good point
of departure. They are more just a function of volatility.”  HSBC Global Asset Management’s Canadian unit is seeking
higher returns from equities and paring bonds from its C$12.7
billion portfolio, James Huggan, HSBC Global’s Vancouver-based
chief investment officer for Canada, said in an interview
earlier this month. Over the last few quarters, he’s been
shifting away from domestic sovereign debt.  Sabia, 59, plans to increase investments in assets such as
real estate, infrastructure and private equity to reduce
volatility in the Caisse’s returns. He’s also planning a C$20
billion fund that invests in the equity of large, global
companies such as  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)   “To me, there’s less risk sitting in that portfolio than
there is sitting in a fixed-income portfolio,” Sabia said.
“With yields where they are, people are searching for yield
anywhere they can, and that’s had a ripple effect on asset
pricing across a variety of different asset classes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net ;
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  