-- Canadian Pacific Seeks to Buy Short Lines as It Skips Big Deals
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-05-22T19:16:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/canadian-pacific-seeks-to-buy-short-lines-as-it-skips-big-deals.html
Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  will
consider buying regional railroads to improve efficiency because
it doesn’t have the financial muscle now to acquire major
carriers, Chief Executive Officer  Hunter Harrison  said.  “We certainly will become -- along the short-line,
regional front -- more aggressive than we have been in the
past,” Harrison said today at a Wolfe Trahan conference in New
York. “There are a lot of those short lines today I’d like to
control that I don’t. It’s not in our interest right now to
focus on anything else.”  The CEO reiterated a prediction that major, or Class 1,
railroads in North America will consolidate in the coming years.
Antitrust issues “can be addressed and can be taken care of,”
he said, adding that any such transaction would probably happen
“post-Harrison.”  The 68-year-old Harrison plans to stay on as CEO for
another three years before handing the reins to Chief Operating
Officer Keith Creel.  Harrison also sought to dismiss speculation that Calgary-based  Canadian Pacific , the country’s second-largest railroad,
would be interested in buying  Kansas City Southern. (KSU)  Benoit Poirier, an analyst at Desjardins Capital Markets in Montreal,
wrote in a May 14 note to clients that Canadian Pacific and its
larger rival,  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR) , are “well
positioned” to buy Kansas City Southern.  Old Story  “I don’t necessarily agree with the report that came out
of  Canada  last week that one of us thought about the KCS,”
Harrison said, referring to Kansas City Southern. “That story
is worn out. That story I’ve been hearing for 15 years.”  Canadian Pacific isn’t in a position to consider buying a
larger competitor because it lacks the financial resources to do
so, the CEO said. Canadian Pacific’s operating ratio, an
industry gauge of efficiency that compares expenses to revenue,
was 83.3 percent last year, exceeding the 71.7 percent average
of  North America ’s largest carriers, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “It would be hard for us to put together the wherewithal
to make an acquisition of a Class 1,” Harrison said. “That’s
just probably not in the cards for some time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Toronto at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  