-- China to Tighten Approvals of Local Governments’ Bonds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-22T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/china-to-tighten-approvals-of-local-governments-bonds.html
China  will tighten rules on bond
sales by polluters, local government financing vehicles with
higher debt levels and companies in industries with overcapacity
as the government seeks to redirect the economy.  The National Development and Reform Commission, which
approves bond sales by entities that local governments set up to
finance projects, ordered greater scrutiny for bond sale
applications from LGFVs with asset-liability ratios above 65
percent and credit ratings below AA+, according to a  statement 
on the website of the nation’s top economic planner yesterday.  China has been seeking to control borrowing by local
governments while stabilizing growth, on concerns that a
slowdown may trigger defaults and saddle banks with bad loans.
Local governments may have more than 20 trillion  yuan  ($3.26
trillion) of debt, former Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng said
in April, almost double the level disclosed in a 2011 report by
the National Audit Office.  Local authorities need to pay about 1 trillion yuan a year
in interest on their 15 trillion yuan of outstanding debt,
including bank loans and bonds, according to Lan Shen, a
Shanghai-based economist at Standard Chartered Plc.  The NDRC will also tighten its examination of bond sales by
companies with debt-to-asset ratios exceeding 75 percent and
credit ratings below AA+, according to the statement.  Encouraged Projects  The agency will accelerate and simplify the approval
process for major state-level infrastructure projects and
industries given priority for development, such as alternative
energy, environmental protection and affordable housing. Bond
sales by companies with AAA credit ratings will be supported, as
will sales of debt backed by collateral from issuers with
ratings of AA+ and above, according to the statement.  The NDRC will “appropriately control the size and speed”
of bond issuance outside those categories, it said in the
statement.  The NDRC is responsible for approving bond sales by
companies that aren’t publicly traded, sharing supervision of
China’s debt markets with the People’s Bank of China and the
China Securities Regulatory Commission. About 63 percent of
bonds sold by non-public companies in China last year had credit
ratings below AA+, according to a report by the National
Association of Financial Market Institutional Investors.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  