-- China Repo Falls Most in May on Speculation of PBOC Injection
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-05-22T02:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/china-repo-falls-most-in-may-on-speculation-of-pboc-injection.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell the most this month on speculation the central bank will
pump cash into the financial system to ease a shortage.  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for sales of 91-day bills tomorrow and also asked banks to submit orders for 28-day repurchase contracts and 14-day reverse repos, said a trader
at a primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. Companies
are required to make tax payments in the second quarter, which
has caused tightness in the money market, according to Chen Qi,
a strategist with UBS Securities Co. in Shanghai.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, fell 60 basis points to 3.84 percent as of
10:06 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled
by the National Interbank Funding Center. That was the biggest
decline since April 26. The rate climbed 166 basis points in the
four days through yesterday to the highest level since April 25.  “In case of further tightness, the central bank will
inject liquidity into the market, which should stabilize money
rates,” UBS’s Chen said. “The tax payment is a major reason
for higher money rates and also there’s been slow growth in the
money base” after the State Administration of Foreign Exchange
said on May 5 it would introduce measures to increase monitoring
of cross-border trade flows, she said.  The central bank has refrained from conducting reverse
repos since it sold 410 billion  yuan  ($67 billion) of 14-day
contracts on Feb. 7 to add funds and ease a cash squeeze before
the Lunar New Year holidays.  The one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.27 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  