-- China, North Korea and the Tale of Two Fishing Boats
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-05-22T22:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/china-north-korea-and-the-tale-of-two-fishing-boats.html
Is the Chinese government’s uneasy
friendship with North Korea costing it the public’s confidence?
A curious confluence of recent events involving two fishing
vessels suggests that might be the case.  The crisis began in the waters of Scarborough Shoal, a set
of fish-laden reefs and small rocky islands west of the
 Philippines  and the source of territorial disputes among  the
Philippines, China and Taiwan . (China views  Taiwan  as a
breakaway province and thus sees Taiwanese territorial claims as
inseparable from those of the mainland.) On May 9,  after a month
of escalating tensions  between China and the Philippines, a
Filipino  coast-guard vessel fired on the Guang Da Hsin 28 , a
Taiwanese fishing boat in the region, killing one.  The incident, and the Philippines’ lack of a formal apology
for it, set  off fierce popular anger  in Taiwan. President Ma Ying-jeou responded with --  among other measures  -- a  hiring
freeze on Filipino workers  and threats of a naval exercise in
the disputed waters.  In China, the Communist Party-owned media lauded such a
response. On May 16, the Global Times newspaper, a hawkish voice
widely believed to echo hardline elements in the  People’s
Liberation Army ,  opined  on the justness of Ma’s approach and its
unifying appeal: “The lesson the Ma Ying-jeou administration
taught the Philippines will not only benefit Taiwan in the long
run, but also contribute to the interests of the whole Chinese
people.”  On China’s microblogs “ Philippines ” has appeared near the
top of trending topic lists for much of the last two weeks.
Given that such lists are subject to censorship, the term’s
prominence suggests that it is an officially acceptable, if not
encouraged, topic of discussion.  Most tweets expressed solidarity with the Taiwanese people
(though not with Ma, who is widely viewed as a weak and
unpopular U.S. stooge), with many suggesting that such incidents
could be prevented if only Taiwan would align more closely with
China. “On the international stage there is only the People’s
Republic of China, with Taiwan as the younger brother,”  tweeted 
an anonymous Sina Weibo user Wednesday. “The Taiwanese fisherman
incident is a sorrow for all Chinese.”  Enter  North Korea . Chinese netizens soon learned that on
May 5, the  Liaoning Generic Fishing No. 25222 , a mainland
Chinese boat from Dalian,  was out fishing  when it was seized by
North Koreans demanding almost $100,000 ransom. The seizure took
place against the backdrop of rising tensions over North Korea’s
nuclear program. According  to the Global Times , the more
immediate cause was probably North Korean military police “using
the ambiguity of maritime borders to make a quick buck.”  According to press reports, China’s Foreign Ministry
learned of the seizure on May 10, after a call from the ship’s
owner, but the Foreign Ministry didn’t publicize the incident.
That makes a certain amount of diplomatic sense: had it done so,
the anger directed at the Philippines would almost certainly
have been redirected at North Korea --  already deeply unpopular
in China  -- at a time when  relations between the two countries
are at a low point . The Foreign Ministry probably isn’t inclined
to reveal why it has befriended a country whose military
supplements its pay by kidnapping Chinese fishermen.  Late Saturday night, the boat’s owner began  tweeting  for
help on the Ten Cent microblogging platform. “The fate of my
crew is unknown,” he wrote. “I implore online friends and the
Foreign Ministry to pay attention to this matter.”  Both parties did. On Sunday, the Foreign Ministry  announced 
it was working on the problem and had “made representations” to
the North Korean authorities. The phrase, which basically
indicates a polite dressing down, is notable mostly for how much
it  irritates Chinese microbloggers  impatient for a show of
force. Last summer, popular frustration with China’s diplomatic
approach to territorial conflicts with  Japan   helped provoke 
anti-Japanese riots. The message then, as now: The Communist
Party is failing to protect the core territorial and historical
interests of the Chinese people.  The North Korean seizure wasn’t a territorial conflict, but
because it, too, involved a fishing boat, it invited comparisons
of Chinese and Taiwanese responses to foreign aggression. “The
Philippines dares to show scorn toward Taiwan, and they are
punished,”  noted  a Shanghai microblogger on Monday. “The North
Koreans dared to show scorn toward China and ha ha ha China
showed deep concern …… extraordinary.”  Some of the most popular tweets on Monday contemplated what
China’s comparatively limp response to North Korea says about
how far the Communist Party will go to protect its people. Lian
Peng, a well-known freelance columnist,  tweeted : “A Taiwanese
fisherman was shot by the Philippines and the whole world knows
it. Our official media extensively reported the news, and some
people even criticized Ma Ying-jeou as a weakling. But when our
fishing boat was detained and extorted, there was no news about
it even after two weeks. The people are always required to love
the government, but when the people are at their most
vulnerable, where is the government? When the people need it
most, where is the government?”  Lian’s tweet has been forwarded more than 11,000 times and
quoted  many thousands more . Even Tuesday’s  release of the
fishing vessel by the North Koreans , after several days of
measured, apparently successful, diplomacy, has done little to
stop the retweets. Sentiments like those expressed by Lian
resonate with a public accustomed to revelations of  high-level
Communist Party corruption  and suspicious that the party exists
to serve itself. Historically, that skepticism didn’t extend to
foreign policy, where the party has been assumed to operate with
 China ’s best interests in mind. But as a couple of fishing boats
showed, such good will is no longer a given.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 