-- China Banks Turn Away From Copper Hot Money, Business Daily Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-22T07:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/china-banks-turn-away-from-copper-hot-money-business-daily-says.html
Some Chinese banks have stopped
issuing letters of credit for copper importers after a
government crackdown on hot-money inflows, the  National Business
Daily  reported today.  Importers have sometimes used copper shipments primarily to
gain letters of credit from banks, which they then used for
other investments, the newspaper said, citing bankers it didn’t
identify. The  China  Banking Regulatory Commission’s Shenzhen
branch on April 24 urged banks to crack down on “irregular
trading activities” as some trading companies created paper
transactions in which copper sometimes never left warehouses, to
take advantage of interest-rate arbitrage between China and
overseas, according to the report.  The practice has also been used to get letters of credit
from banks outside China in foreign currencies such as U.S.
dollars, and then to bring these funds into the country to
invest in higher-yielding yuan-denominated assets, according to
the newspaper report. This has contributed to gains in the  yuan ,
it said.  China’s trade surplus is 10 percent the official $61
billion reported so far this year after accounting for fake
transactions used to disguise hot-money inflows, according to a
report from Bank of America. The estimate underscores the size
of possible discrepancies in the trade data, which has been
disputed by analysts for four months and has triggered currency
regulator’s recent scrutiny of cross-border capital flows.  The State Administration of Foreign Exchange, China’s
foreign exchange regulator, called on businesses with
substantial foreign exchange receipts to explain whether the
capital flows are supported by real trade, analysts at Barclays
Plc said in a research note yesterday. Businesses were given 10
days to provide all the documentation to the banks, and banks
would have to re-classify their clients’ risk levels by the end
of May, Barclays said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feiwen Rong in Beijing at 
 frong2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Brett Miller  at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  