-- Chr. Hansen Gains as SocGen Sees Cash Returned: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-22T08:24:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/chr-hansen-gains-as-socgen-sees-cash-returned-copenhagen-mover.html
Chr. Hansen A/S (CHR)  rose the most in
seven weeks in Copenhagen trading after  Societe Generale  SA said
the new chief executive officer of the world’s biggest maker of
dairy enzymes will return cash to shareholders.  Chr. Hansen rose as much as 3.4 percent, the most since
April 2. The stock gained 1.9 percent to 207.70 kroner at 9:53
a.m. in the Danish capital, making it the  second-biggest winner 
on the Nasdaq  OMX Copenhagen 20 index. (KFX)  Trading volume on the
share was 22 percent of the three-month daily average.  Chr. Hansen, which ended an 80 million-euro ($104 million)
share buyback program last year, hired Cees de Jong to take over
as chief executive officer on April 1 after Lars Frederiksen
resigned. Societe Generale said today de Jong has told investors
at roadshow presentations that he favors returning excess cash
to shareholders rather than chasing mergers and acquisitions.  “With gearing low, cash generation robust and little
likelihood of material M&A, we expect 90 percent of ongoing free
 cash flow  to be returned to shareholders,” Alex Sloane and
 Warren Ackerman , London-based analysts with Societe Generale,
said in a note.  The bank raised today its  recommendation  on the stock to
buy from hold and increased a price estimate to 245 kroner from
205 kroner. Chr. Hansen’s profitability will improve as
innovation drives enzymes sales higher, the company completes a
turnaround of its color unit, and new production facilities in
Denmark open, Sloane and Ackerman said.  Before today, Chr. Hansen shares had lost 4 percent since
the Hoersholm, Denmark-based company on April 11 reported
second-quarter earnings that  missed analyst estimates . That
compares with a 2.7 percent gain in the C20 index in the same
period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  