-- Christian Dior Owner Said to Seek Refinancing of ’14 Credit Line
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 2013-05-22T14:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/christian-dior-owner-said-to-seek-refinancing-of-14-credit-line.html
Financiere Agache SA, the majority
owner of French luxury goods maker  Christian Dior SA (CDI) , is seeking
to refinance a 500 million-euro ($646 million) loan due next
year, according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  The Paris-based company has started negotiations with banks
to replace its revolving line of credit, which is due to mature
in July 2014, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the deal is private. The pricing and maturity of the
transaction have not yet been set, they said.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , Banque Federative du Credit Mutuel SA
and Natixis arranged the existing deal in 2010, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Telephone calls and an e-mail to
officials in the company’s Paris office seeking comment on the
deal weren’t immediately returned.  Financiere Agache is controlled by  France ’s richest man
 Bernard Arnault  through his investment firm Groupe Arnault SA,
according to its  website . The company owns 69 percent of
Christian Dior, which in turn has a 41 percent stake in  LVMH
Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the maker of Louis Vuitton
handbags and Moet & Chandon champagne.  Arnault is worth $31.6 billion, according to the latest
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index , making him the world’s 14th
richest person.  Christian Dior raised a 635 million-euro credit line
earlier this year, boosting the deal from a targeted 500 million
euros after lenders offered more funds than sought, Bloomberg
data show. The five-year loan pays initial interest at 80 basis
points more than the euro interbank offered rate and was
arranged by Credit Mutuel, BNP Paribas SA, Credit Agricole, ING
Groep NV, Natixis and Societe Generale SA, the data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  