-- Church Shelters Tornado Victims Left Homeless in Moore
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-22T03:09:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/church-shelters-tornado-victims-left-homeless-in-moore.html
With his house destroyed by a deadly
 Oklahoma  twister and his prized 1956 Pontiac riddled with dents,
its windows smashed, Clyde Vance took refuge at a local church.  The 67-year-old retiree was at home when the tornado struck
May 20 and the building collapsed on top of him. It took 20
minutes for neighbors to help free him.  “What really bothers me is my car,” said the former
security chief at The Oklahoman newspaper. “That was my pride
and joy.”  Vance was among several hundred people who turned Moore,
Oklahoma’s First Baptist Church into part homeless shelter, part
community bazaar following the storm that killed 24 residents
and injured 237. Shannon Williams, 35, collected food and water
for her brother, sister and four others she took in after the
twister cut a mile-wide swath of devastation through their city.  “I told the volunteers we came for water, not food, but
they said it didn’t matter and they loaded us with all kinds of
snacks and food and toothpaste and deodorant,” said Williams, a
mother and student at the  University of Oklahoma  in nearby
Norman. “The people here are amazing, which is the reason we
put up with these tornadoes and stay.”  More than 25 truckloads of donated water, generators,
diapers, gloves and other items arrived at First Baptist less
than a day after the storm swept through the  Oklahoma City 
suburb, said Kyle Duncan, the church’s administrator. Houses of
worship around the community of 55,000 residents opened their
doors to those who lost homes or saw them damaged.  Bathtub Buddies  At the New Life Baptist Church in Norman, about 10 miles
(16 kilometers) away, truck-driving brothers Ronnie White, 50,
and Lonnie, 52, took shelter overnight. They had huddled in
their bathtub, covered by a mattress, as the tornado ripped off
the roof of their house in Moore.  “Every church here is doing something, which means a lot
can get done,” said Jason John, New Life’s associate pastor.  At First Baptist, a half-dozen people watched news reports
on big-screen televisions while others milled around, munching
on snacks. Several family groups played with dogs. Workers at
the church handed out ham and turkey sandwiches, doughnuts,
muffins and burritos sent by local restaurants, said Patty
Koonce, who lost her home to the storm.  ‘Life Saver’  Koonce, who works in Oklahoma City at Graham’s Central
Station night club, said the church earned a reputation as a
good place for those seeking relief following a deadly May 1999
tornado. Terri Grusendorf, a manager at a  community college  who
was picking up apples, peanuts, bananas and bath items for a
friend left homeless, said First Baptist “is a life saver” in
times like these.  Parked outside stood a large truck trailer fitted out with
stoves to cook meals for people in need in the community.
Nearby, representatives of State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co., Shelter Insurance Cos. and more than a dozen
other insurers waited to discuss storm claims with survivors.  Vance took some solace in that he could still use his
prized Pontiac. “At least I was able to drive it here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Moore, Oklahoma, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  