-- CIMB Net Jumps 37% to Record, Boosted by Stake Sale
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2013-05-22T01:43:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/cimb-net-jumps-37-to-record-boosted-by-stake-sale.html
CIMB (CIMB)  Group Holdings Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
second-largest bank by assets, reported a 37 percent jump in
first-quarter profit that was boosted by the sale of its stake
in an insurance joint venture.  Net income  surged to a record 1.39 billion ringgit ($460
million), or 18.65 sen per share, in the three months ended
March 31 from 1.01 billion ringgit, or 13.6 sen per share, a
year earlier, according to a stock exchange filing in  Kuala
Lumpur  yesterday.  CIMB announced in January it will sell most of its stake in
Malaysian insurer CIMB-Aviva, a venture with London-based Aviva
Plc, to Sun Life Financial Inc. and Khazanah Nasional Bhd. It
booked one-time gains of 515.1 million ringgit for the quarter,
according to yesterday’s filing. Earnings would have grown 4.2
percent if exceptional items were excluded,  Nazir Razak , the
bank’s chief executive officer, said in a separate statement.  “We had a decent start to the year with steady growth
across most business segments,” Nazir said. “We also took this
opportunity to take some restructuring charges that will bring
about longer term cost benefits.”  The shares jumped 1.5 percent as of 9:40 a.m. in Kuala
Lumpur trading today, poised for its highest close since May 7.
Kuala Lumpur-based CIMB has surged 13 percent since Prime
Minister Najib Razak, older brother of Nazir, was returned to
power in a tightly-fought election on May 5. It’s outperformed a
5.7 percent jump in the  benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index
over the same period.  Transformation Plan  The victory gave Najib the mandate to continue an economic
transformation program aimed at drawing $444 billion of
investment this decade from private sector-led projects
including mass railway and oil storage.  “The group’s strong domestic corporate presence means CIMB
would be one of the major beneficiaries from the rollout of the
economic transformation program projects,” David Chong, an
analyst at RHB Capital Bhd., wrote in a report today. “Despite
the recent run-up in share price, valuations are still at a
discount to large-cap peers.”  RHB raised CIMB’s price target to 10.90 ringgit from 9.90
ringgit and kept its buy rating on the stock.  Net interest income, or revenue from borrowers after
deducting interest paid to depositors, rose 9.1 percent to 1.9
billion ringgit in the period. Allowances for impairment losses
on loans and financing shrank 44 percent to 80.7 million
ringgit, the company said.  Advisory Fees  Net non-interest income, including deal advisory fees,
climbed 1.2 percent to 1.16 billion ringgit in the first
quarter, CIMB said. Credit demand was supported by
infrastructure projects and domestic spending as  Southeast
Asia ’s third-largest  economy  grew 4.1 percent last quarter.  CIMB agreed last year to buy a 60 percent stake in the
 Philippines ’ Bank of Commerce to expand its Southeast Asia
footprint. Nazir told reporters last week that it was proceeding
with discussions even after seller San Miguel Corp. signaled the
deal may be scrapped.  Issues will be resolved in about a week, San Miguel
President Ramon Ang told reporters yesterday, adding that the
brewer was willing to keep the bank if talks falter. “Many”
other groups are interested, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji in  Hong Kong  at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  