-- Clearwire Board Endorses Sprint’s Sweetened Bid
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-05-22T20:29:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/clearwire-board-approves-increased-3-40-a-share-bid-from-sprint.html
Clearwire Corp. (CLWR) ’s board recommended
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s new takeover bid of $3.40 a share, or
about $2.5 billion, saying it’s the best offer available to the
struggling wireless-service provider.  The increased price, which Sprint boosted from $2.97 a
share yesterday, tops a $3.30 bid from  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  After
the terms were changed, Clearwire rescheduled yesterday’s
meeting for investors to vote on the deal until May 31. The new
offer values all of Clearwire, including debt and Sprint’s
current equity in the business, at $10.7 billion.  “The revised offer, when compared with other potential
transactions reasonably available to the company at this time,
is the most favorable potential transaction to the company’s
unaffiliated stockholders,” Bellevue, Washington-based
Clearwire said in a statement. “The terms of the revised offer
are advisable, fair to and in the best interest of such
stockholders.”  While the board had also endorsed the lower bid, Sprint
faced opposition from Clearwire’s shareholders, who said it
undervalued the company. Sprint, which already owns slightly
more than 50 percent of the business, is trying to buy the rest
of the shares to gain control over Clearwire’s valuable spectrum
-- something it needs to bolster its own network.  Clearwire fell 0.6 percent to $3.38 at the close in  New
York . The stock has gained 17 percent this year.  Cash Shortage  Clearwire has said it faces a cash crunch and needs at
least $1.7 billion to keep operating, adding urgency to complete
a deal.  Crest Financial Ltd., one of the biggest opponents to the
Sprint takeover, said yesterday that the new terms weren’t
satisfactory. The Houston-based investment firm urged
Clearwire’s board to reject the bid, arguing it should have a
separate, competitive process to seek proposals.  Mount Kellett Capital Management LP, another Clearwire
investor, forged an alliance with other shareholders earlier
this month to coax Sprint into making a better offer. The group,
which also includes Highside Capital Management LP, Glenview
Capital Management LLC and Chesapeake Partners Management Co.,
remains opposed to the Sprint bid, according to a filing today.
It accounts for more than 18 percent of Clearwire’s publicly
traded shares.  Sprint’s failure to sway the Mount Kellett-led group could
be an obstacle to the deal, said Kevin Roe, an analyst at Roe
Equity Research in Dorset,  Vermont .  “The opposing group stayed together,” Roe said. “They
are the enabling block.”  Evercore Partners served as Clearwire’s financial adviser,
while Kirkland & Ellis LLP was legal counsel. The board’s
special committee evaluating the offer consulted with  Centerview
Partners , Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP and Richards, Layton &
Finger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  