-- Coal’s Record Slump Poised to End on Output Cuts: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i ,   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n   a n d   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n
-- 2013-05-22T09:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/coal-s-record-slump-poised-to-end-on-output-cuts-energy-markets.html
European coal’s longest slump in at
least eight years is poised to end as imports from the U.S. fall
and further declines trigger production cuts at mines in Russia
and  Poland .  Next-year prices have extended four quarters of losses to
trade near $90 a metric ton, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s a “crucial” level below which some producers
can’t continue to operate, said Paolo Coghe, an analyst at
Societe Generale SA. Kompania Weglowa SA, Europe’s largest coal
producer, is cutting output by 8 percent this year, Chief
Executive Officer Joanna Strzelec-Lobodzinska said May 13 in
Katowice, Poland.  German utilities are burning record amounts of coal, which
is twice as polluting in power generation as natural gas, after
a glut sent prices to their lowest level in three years. Exports
from  Indonesia ,  Australia  and Russia will slow after a 25
percent jump in global seaborne supply in the two years through
2012, according to Deutsche Bank AG, just as  Europe ’s economy is
poised to expand for the first time since 2011.  “If the European economy recovers and some producers
decide to cut their output due to the weakness in the coal
market, prices will pick up again, especially if U.S. exports
drop,” said Barbara Lambrecht, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt  who has covered commodities for six years. “Coal
prices won’t rise to the skies. For that, supply on the market
is too abundant.”  Limited Potential  Coal for delivery to Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp next year,
the benchmark European contract, rose 0.1% to $91.40 a ton as of
11:10 a.m. Berlin time today, according to ICAP Plc data on
Bloomberg. The contract has dropped 9.6 percent this year.  “Prices should not fall much further but upside is
limited,” Coghe said in an interview from Paris. “There is a
floor at around $90 a ton for next-year coal, which triggers
cuts to more expensive supply, for example in  Russia , which
couldn’t sustain production levels at such low prices.”  Thermal coal shipments from Russia, the third-biggest
exporter, fell 2.2 percent in the first quarter to 26.27 million
tons from a year earlier as production declined 2.3 percent to
65.58 million tons, Kirill Chuyko, head of equity research at
BCS Financial Group, said May 15 by phone from Moscow.  U.S. coal  exports, excluding cargoes to  Canada  and  Mexico ,
increased 55 percent to 46 million tons in 2012 after more than
doubling a year earlier, according to Deutsche Bank. Shipments
will probably drop to 35 million tons this year as gains in
natural  gas prices  increase the competitiveness of coal in power
generation, Michael Hsueh and  Michael Lewis , analysts at the
bank in  London  and Paris, said in a May 9 report.  Price Pressure  “Pressure on thermal coal prices from U.S. supply will be
held in check” this year, they said. “The evolving supply-demand dynamics of thermal coal in the U.S. have the potential
to have a larger negative effect on global seaborne prices in
the next decade than we observed in 2012.”  U.S. natural gas futures gained 0.8% to $4.225 per million
British thermal units as of 11:15 a.m. today, after falling to a
10-year low of $1.902 in April 2012 on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  There’s been a “dramatic improvement in coal fundamentals
from this time last year,” said Greg Boyce, the chairman and
chief executive officer of  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) , the largest
U.S. coal company by sales.  “Production cutbacks, mine closures and project
cancellations or delays are likely to continue in most coal-exporting countries around the globe,” he said April 18 on an
earnings call.  Power Demand  Demand for power in  Germany , Europe’s biggest economy,
slumped 1.3 percent last year to the lowest since 2003,
according to AG Energiebilanzen e.V., an association of energy
lobbies and economic research institutes.  The euro area economy will grow 0.2 percent in the fourth
quarter, the first increase since the last three months of 2011,
according to the median of 34 economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Gross domestic product contracted 0.6 percent last year.  German electricity generation from lignite, the most
carbon-intensive type of coal, rose 9.8 percent in the first
quarter to 40.9 terawatt-hours from a year earlier, while
generation from hard coal, a less-polluting grade, increased 23
percent to 36 terawatt-hours, data from the Federal Statistical
Office show.  While European coal for next year may extend declines, a
seasonal minimum will develop in coming weeks as utilities build
stockpiles before the summer, according to Melinda Moore, an
analyst at Standard Bank Plc in London.  Profitable Exports  “Both Colombia and Russia are exporting tons profitably”
at spot prices $8 a ton lower than the year-ahead contract,
Moore said by e-mail on May 10, when the  month-ahead  contract
closed at $83.25 a ton. It traded at $81.20 today.  Spot cargoes probably wouldn’t be offered below $78 a ton,
assuming an oil price of about $100 a barrel, according to
 Trevor Sikorski , the head of natural gas, carbon and coal at
Energy Aspects Ltd. in London.  “If there are no supply outages, the market will have a
lot of coal hanging around and it’s hard to see much of a way
back unless there is a more concerted approach to cutting back
on production,” he said.  Kompania Weglowa is reducing output to 36 million tons this
year from 39 million tons in 2012 and possibly a further 1
million tons next year, Strzelec-Lobodzinska said in an
interview. The cuts will help erode company stockpiles of about
6 million tons, equivalent to more than two months of
production.  Coal miners in Poland are struggling to extract the fuel
profitably, according to Artur Trzeciakowski, chief financial
officer at Katowicki Holding Weglowy SA, the nation’s third-largest producer by output.  Breaking Even  “There are mines in Poland, including those that belong to
us, where mining costs are nearing the line of the market price,
that line is around $90 per ton or slightly below,”
Trzeciakowski said May 10 by phone from Katowice.  At about $90, “some of the coal mined in the U.S. and
Australia is being sold at a loss,” Nigel Yaxley, deputy
president of the European Association for Coal and Lignite, a
lobby group based in Brussels, said May 15 in Katowice. “The
natural thing is capacity closures but the problem is that
people are hoping that someone else would do it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  