-- Coffee Futures Fall to Three-Year Low on Inventory Surge
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z
-- 2013-05-22T18:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/coffee-futures-fall-to-three-year-low-on-inventory-surge.html
Coffee futures fell to the lowest in
more than three years on mounting speculation that global
supplies will exceed demand amid bumper crops in  Brazil , the
world’s top exporter.  Inventories monitored by ICE Futures U.S., up 80 percent in
the past 12 months, are close to the highest in three years.
Next season, shipments by Brazil may rise 5.9 percent because
farmers have unsold supplies from the previous record crop,
Cecafe, an exporter group based in  Sao Paulo , said this week.  In the past 12 months, arabica coffee has tumbled 26
percent, the most among 24  raw materials  in the Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Spot Index. The variety is grown mainly in  Latin
America  and brewed by companies including  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and
 Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc. (DNKN)  This year, Brazilian farmers will
gather a record crop for a lower-yielding half of a biennial
cycle, the government said last week.  “This is a situation of abundance,” Christian Wolthers,
the president of Wolthers America, an importer in  Fort
Lauderdale , Florida, said in a telephone interview. “There are
no frost threats coming over the coffee belt in Brazil, and the
recent dry weather may actually result in more cherries per
tree.”  Arabica-coffee futures for July delivery fell 3.2 percent
to settle at $1.2845 a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE in New York.
Earlier, the price touched $1.2825, the lowest for a most-active
contract since Feb. 25, 2010.  Seventh Drop  Trading was 40 percent higher than the 100-day average for
this time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price
dropped for the seventh straight session, the longest slump in
two months.  Crop damage from the roya fungus in Central America will
reach 2.7 million bags, costing $500 million, the  International
Coffee Organization  said this month.  “A lot of Brazil’s arabicas may serve as substitutes for
the Central America coffees,” said Wolthers, who has been
trading coffee for more than three decades. “Roasters have been
waiting cautiously, hoping to buy at cheaper prices. This market
traditionally has bottomed by July, if there is no damaging
weather.”  The futures slump may reduce costs for J.M. Smucker Co.,
the maker of Folgers, the top retail brand in the U.S., and
Kraft Foods Inc., which sells Maxwell House and Gevalia coffees.
Both companies cut prices this year.  The arabica premium over robusta, used in instant-coffee
blends, extended a decline to the lowest since late March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  