-- Colombia Peso Falls to 16-Month Low on Bernanke Stimulus Outlook
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-05-22T21:51:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/colombia-peso-falls-to-16-month-low-on-bernanke-stimulus-outlook.html
Colombia ’s peso plunged to a 16-month
low on speculation dollar inflows into the Andean nation will
decline after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
monthly bond purchases could be reduced if the world’s biggest
economy shows sustained growth.  The peso dropped 0.5 percent to 1,856.54 per  U.S. dollar 
today at the close of trading in Bogota, the weakest level since
January 2012.  U.S. stocks fell and emerging-market currencies weakened
after Bernanke told Congress today that the U.S. central bank
could “take a step down in our pace of purchases” in the
“next few meetings.” The peso has weakened 4.8 percent this
year as the Colombian government and central bank increased
dollar purchases to stem a rally that sent the currency to a 17-month intraday high on Jan. 2. Finance Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  said yesterday he will ask the central bank to continue
its dollar purchase program that ends this month.  “Bernanke’s remarks were obviously the driver behind this
move” on the prospects of less dollar inflows into  emerging
markets , Jorge Cardozo, an analyst at Bogota-based brokerage
Corredores Asociados brokerage, said in a phone interview. “The
peso was lagging behind and now it’s catching up to moves in the
international market.”  Banco de la Republica said Jan. 28 it will buy a minimum of
$30 million a day, increasing purchases in the  currency market 
to at least $3 billion from February to May.  Cardenas, who is also president of the central bank’s
board, told reporters May 21 he will recommend that the bank buy
$750 million per month, for a total of $9 billion this year.  The yield on benchmark government peso bonds due in July
2024 climbed four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
5.09 percent,  according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  