-- Commercial-Mortgage Bond Rally Stalls as Fannie Mae Sells Debt
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-05-22T15:57:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/commercial-mortgage-bond-rally-stalls-as-fannie-mae-sells-debt.html
A commercial-mortgage bond rally that
pushed values up as much as 25 percent this year is stalling as
planned sales from  Fannie Mae  threaten to overwhelm investors.  Prices on a Markit Group Ltd. CMBX index used as a gauge of
demand in the $550 billion market for securities tied to
shopping malls, skyscrapers and hotels fell to 75.3 cents on the
dollar yesterday, the lowest in almost three weeks. The index,
linked to securities rated AAA when issued in 2007 that have
since been cut to junk, reached a two-year high of 78.9 cents on
May 8.  Investors are pulling back after analysts at banks
including Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura Holdings Inc. warned that
buyers of the riskiest bonds will probably face principal
losses. The sell-off is being compounded by Fannie’s Mae’s
auction of about $2 billion of debt tied to apartment complexes
issued during the market’s peak in 2006 and 2007.  The Fannie Mae offering “could soften things up a bit,”
Brian Lancaster, a debt strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc., based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , wrote in an e-mail.
“Earlier in the quarter it could have been easily taken down
without as much impact.”  Values of so-called AJ bonds such as the debt included in
Markit’s index climbed as high as 94 cents on the dollar this
month from 75 cents in December, Deutsche Bank data show.  Market ‘Impact’  The government-controlled loan financier, which has
returned to profitability after being taken over by U.S.
regulators in 2008, is offering the securities as it seeks to
shrink its balance sheet. The Washington-based lender may follow
up with similar offerings in the next several months, people
familiar with the offerings said yesterday.  Executives at Fannie Mae and competitor  Freddie Mac  were
given a goal in March of selling off at least 5 percent of
illiquid holdings this year as the  Federal Housing Finance
Agency  seeks to make the firms smaller.  The sale from Fannie Mae marks the first widely distributed
offering of its kind, Deutsche Bank analysts wrote in a report
today. There are 17 bonds on the lists being offered this week
with an average balance of $129 million, according to the New
York-based analysts led by Harris Trifon.  While the sale will probably cause relative yields to widen
in the near-term, the effect should be short-lived, according to
Deutsche Bank.  “After the uncertainty regarding execution passes and
fears of another large list in the near future wane, the
exercise could form the basis for the next tightening cycle,”
if the sale goes well, the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in  New York  at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  