-- Birth Control Mandate Attacks Beliefs, Businesses Argue
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-05-22T19:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/contraception-mandate-challenge-faces-appeal-court-judges.html
Two companies whose owners claim to
operate in accord with Catholic doctrine asked a U.S. appeals
court to exempt them from a law requiring businesses to offer
birth control coverage as part of employer health plans.  Lawyers for the family-owned companies told the three-judge
panel in Chicago today that the mandate, part of the Obama
administration’s health care overhaul, violates the U.S.
Constitution’s guarantee of freedom of religion and the federal
Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993.  The businesses, a construction firm from southwestern
 Illinois  and an auto-parts maker in southeastern  Indiana , should
be relieved from having to comply with the measure while they
contest its constitutionality, their lawyers argued.  “The company is an extension of their beliefs,” said
Edward L. White III, lawyer for Highland, Illinois-based  Korte &
Luitjohan  Contractors Inc. and its principals, Cyril and Jane
Korte.  The contraception mandate stems from President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which
is intended to create almost-universal health insurance coverage
in the U.S.  The act requires most people to obtain coverage starting
next year. It also expands the availability of the federal-state
Medicaid program and compels businesses with more than 50 full-time workers to offer coverage or pay a penalty.  Approved Contraception  That insurance must include at no extra cost to the
employee all forms of Federal Drug Administration-approved
contraception as prescribed by a health-care provider.  The provision sparked lawsuits from the Roman Catholic
Archdioceses of New York and  Washington , the Catholic University
of America, Notre Dame University and for-profit businesses in
 Michigan , Missouri and elsewhere.  In January, a U.S. judge in Washington threw out a
challenge by the city’s archdiocese, concluding it was
premature, a month after a federal judge in  Brooklyn , New York,
said a case there could go forward.  A St. Louis federal judge threw out one Catholic
businessman’s challenge in October, while in March a U.S. judge
in  Detroit  granted a reprieve from the law to Domino’s Pizza
chain founder Tom Monaghan and his property management company,
Domino’s Farms Corp., until his lawsuit is resolved.  Next Argument  A Denver-based federal appeals court will hear argument on
another contraception mandate challenge tomorrow.  The arguments today were heard by U.S. Circuit Judge Joel M. Flaum, a 1983 appointee of President Ronald Reagan, flanked
by Judge Ilana Diamond Rovner, named by President George H.W.
Bush in 1992 and Judge Diane S. Sykes, appointed by President
George W. Bush in 2004.  “The mandate requires plaintiffs to take actions that
violate their religious faith in order to avoid ruinous
penalties for non-compliance,” White and his co-counsel said in
their appellate brief.  White told the judges today his clients own 88 percent of
their 50-year-old business and set its policies. Most of their
decisions are made at the kitchen table, he said.  “The company is them,” he said.  Justice Department lawyer Alisa Klein challenged that
assertion, telling the panel that the Religion Freedom
Restoration Act didn’t alter the basic legal principle that
corporations are distinct from their owners, a distinction she
said the plaintiffs seeking to blur.  Wrong ‘Temptation’  “I understand the temptation to do it, but it’s wrong,”
Klein said.  Sykes asked her why a company can’t have a moral creed if
it can be criminally responsible for moral wrongdoing.  “The whole purpose of RFRA was to expand free exercise
rights, not contract them,” the judge said, telling Klein
later, “Your argument doesn’t hold up.”  Congress “has long distinguished between religious
organizations and for-profit secular corporations,” the Justice
Department said in a March 1 filing. “No court has ever found a
for-profit company to be a religious organization for the
purposes of federal law.”  Matthew Bowman, a lawyer for Madison, Indiana-based  Grote
Industries Inc.  and its family owners, told the panel that
“separation between corporations and their owners for some
purposes doesn’t mean separation for all purposes.”  Religious-Rights Arguments  Lower-court judges in each company’s case rejected requests
for orders to exempt them from the law during the litigation,
ruling they weren’t likely to prevail on their religious-rights
arguments. The arguments today were an appeal of those denials.  The appeals court granted the exemption until it rules on
the issue.  The Kortes told the lower court their company would face
“ruinous” penalties of about $730,000 a year for failing to
obey the mandate. The Grotes, too, said they faced irreparable
harm in the form of fines and penalties for abiding by their
religious beliefs and defying the law.  Neither the Kortes nor the Grotes hire their workers based
on their religions, and those employees aren’t required to share
their beliefs, the government said in its filings.  The cases are Korte v. Sebelius, 12-3841 and Grote v.
Sebelius, 13-1077, U.S.  Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit 
( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  