-- Copper Futures Rise to Five-Week High on Freeport Woes
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-05-22T18:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/copper-futures-rise-to-five-week-high-on-freeport-woes.html
Copper futures rose to a five-week
high on mounting concern that a deadly accident at the world’s
second-biggest mine may crimp supplies as a recovering housing
market boosts metal demand in the U.S.  Operations will remain suspended at  Freeport-McMoRan Copper
& Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s Grasberg complex in Indonesia until a probe of a
tunnel collapse that killed 28 people is concluded, the
government said yesterday. Sales of existing U.S. homes in April
were the highest since November 2009, a report from the National
Association of Realtors showed today.  Last month, a wall collapsed at a  Rio Tinto  Group copper
mine in  Utah , sparking supply concerns after the outlook for a
global surplus pushed prices down 13 percent this year through
April 30. There are “growing signs of an improvement in both
supply and demand fundamentals” because of the accidents, along
with a decline in the availability of scrap and Chinese demand,
Morgan Stanley today in a report.  “At the very minimum, we may see a longer halt to
operations than expected at Grasberg,” Adrian Day, who manages
about $120 million of assets as president of Adrian Day Asset
Management in Annapolis,  Maryland , said in a telephone
interview. “The forecasts for a surplus are largely based on
the assumption that nothing goes wrong at mines. But as we’re
seeing, that’s not the case.”  Copper futures for July delivery advanced 1.1 percent to
$3.3805 a pound at 1:13 p.m. on the Comex in New York. Earlier,
the price reached $3.418, the highest for a most-active contract
since April 12.  Trading was 19 percent above the 100-day average for this
time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China is the top
copper consumer, followed by the U.S.  Bingham Canyon  Rio Tinto said last month that full-year output of refined
copper may be 100,000 metric tons less than estimated at its
Bingham Canyon site, the biggest man-made hole.  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) ’s Escondida mine in  Chile  is the largest.  “A supply outage in Indonesia’s Grasberg mine after a
terrible mining disaster is being followed by the market,”  Mark Pervan , an analyst at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
in  Melbourne , said in a report. “Any prolonged shutdown will
likely impact supplies.”  The Copper Development Association says construction
generates about 40 percent of demand for the metal. In April,
U.S. building permits, a proxy for future construction, were the
highest in almost five years, figures showed last week.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months climbed 1.4 percent to $7,475 a ton ($3.39 a pound),
after topping $7,480 for the first time since April 12. Marex
Spectron Group said on May 17 that a move above that price would
make a rally to $7,645 more likely.  “The market is heavily short and a continued melt-up
through $7,500 could entice further short-covering” George Adcock, an analyst at Marex Spectron in London, said today in an
e-mail.  Zinc, lead, aluminum, nickel and tin climbed on the LME.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in  New York  at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  