-- Court Ruling Puts Cloud Over Consumer Agency as Work Slows
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-05-22T17:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/court-ruling-puts-cloud-over-u-s-consumer-agency-as-work-slows.html
A court ruling that cast doubt on the
authority of its director has hampered the U.S. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, slowing some enforcement, impeding
recruitment of a second-in-command and delaying joint ventures
with the states, people briefed on the agency’s work said.  President  Barack Obama  last year appointed Richard Cordray
director when the Senate wasn’t in session, the same day he made
appointments to the National Labor Relations Board. The U.S.
Court of Appeals in Washington on Jan. 25 concluded the NLRB
moves were unconstitutional, which could also affect Cordray.
The Obama administration has appealed to the Supreme Court.  House Republicans have said they won’t take testimony from
Cordray in the meantime. A Native American tribe has refused to
supply information about its online lending business, claiming
Cordray isn’t a legitimate director, according to three people
with knowledge of the matter. Candidates to be Cordray’s deputy
won’t pursue the job while his fate is unclear, two people
familiar with the search said.  The bureau’s plans to cooperate on enforcement with state
attorneys general under the 2010 Dodd-Frank law also haven’t
panned out, said Greg Zoeller, the attorney general of  Indiana .  “There has not been the gearing-up on consumer protection
that I’d expected because of the cloud over the CFPB’s
authority,” Zoeller, a Republican, said in an interview.  The people all spoke on condition of anonymity because the
matters aren’t public.  ‘Admirable Job’  The headwinds haven’t stopped the bureau’s work. Since it
was established by Dodd-Frank, the agency has obtained $425
million in restitution for consumers and has imposed fines
including $15 million on mortgage insurers over kickbacks. The
bureau warned banks about the consequences of discriminatory
auto lending, released data on consumer complaints and published
a study of payday lending.  “From before its inception, this agency has faced pressure
and they’ve done more than an admirable job of rising to the
challenge,” Reid Cramer, who directs a program aimed at
promoting family wealth-building policies at the Washington-based New America Foundation, said in an interview.  Moira Vahey, a spokeswoman for the bureau, said the court
case “has not impacted” the search for Cordray’s deputy. She
said the agency has “already joined state attorneys general in
taking enforcement action,” including one that involved five
states and led to a Dec. 21 court order against a firm that
unlawfully charged advance fees for debt-relief services.  ‘Close Partnerships’  “The bureau is committed to rooting out practices that
harm consumers,” Vahey said. “We have forged and will continue
to build close partnerships with state and local law enforcement
agencies to further our mission of protecting consumers.”  Representative Jeb Hensarling, the chairman of the House
Financial Services Committee, said on April 23 he will refuse to
take testimony from Cordray. Hensarling, a Texas Republican, on
March 8 asked the bureau for documents and information about how
its work might change in light of the court decision.  “The possibility that an agency’s actions may be
challenged is not a reason for the agency to fail to carry out
its legal duties,” Meredith Fuchs, the bureau’s general
counsel, said in a March 22 response.  Still, Fuchs is supervising work that is analyzing the
bureau’s options in the event the Cordray appointment is
overturned, according to a person briefed on the discussions.  Confirmation Vote  “That’s what good lawyers do -- they think through every
contingency and worst-case scenario,” Deepak Gupta, a former
lawyer at the agency, and a founder of appellate law firm  Gupta
Beck  PLLC, said in an e-mail.  Obama’s Jan. 4, 2012 appointment of Cordray came after
Senate Republicans vowed to block a confirmation vote on any
bureau director unless the administration agrees to changes in
the agency’s funding and structure.  Republican lawmakers have opposed the bureau ever since it
was conceived by Elizabeth Warren, now a Democratic senator from
 Massachusetts . They said an independent agency is unnecessary
and has too much power without enough accountability. One change
Republicans have demanded would replace the single director with
a five-member commission.  Senator Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat who is the Senate’s
majority leader, said he plans to hold a procedural vote soon on
Cordray’s nomination. Republicans, who hold 45 seats in the 100-member Senate, can deny Democrats the 60 votes needed to set the
stage for simple majority approval.  ‘Sustained Attack’  “There has been a sustained attack on the bureau since it
started,” Lisa Donner, executive director of Americans for
Financial Reform, a consumer advocacy group, said in an
interview. “So I don’t know that the latest turns have changed
that basic fact.”  Under Dodd-Frank, the bulk of the bureau’s authority to
supervise banks with assets above $10 billion, a group of about
110 that includes  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Lafayette, Louisiana-based Iberiabank Corp., doesn’t require that a director be in
place. Without a director, though, the agency couldn’t extend
its supervision to non-bank financial firms, including online
payday lenders.  The uncertainty has helped slow the bureau’s attempts to
scrutinize online lending businesses operated by Native American
tribes, according to two people briefed on the probe who spoke
on condition of anonymity because the matter isn’t public.  Companies operated by the Chippewa-Cree tribe in  Montana ,
the Tunica-Biloxi tribe of Louisiana and the Otoe-Missouria
tribe of  Oklahoma  last year were sent civil investigative
demands, a kind of subpoena for business data, the people said.  Tribal Challenge  “The purpose of this investigation is to determine whether
small-dollar online lenders or other unnamed persons have
engaged or are engaging in unlawful acts or practices relating
to the advertising, marketing, provision, or collection of
small-dollar loan products,” according to a copy of one of the
documents obtained by Bloomberg News.  The Chippewa-Cree challenged the request in part on grounds
Cordray’s appointment was illegal. Cordray hasn’t acted on the
petition, which could require him to address the constitutional
question, the people said. By contrast, when  three other
companies  filed similar petitions, Cordray published responses
within 90 days, records show.  James Hopper of the Otoe-Missouria company, Billi Anne
Raining Bird-Morsette of the Chippewa-Cree firm and Marshal
Pierite of the Tunica-Biloxi lender didn’t respond to requests
for comment. Vahey, the bureau spokeswoman, declined to comment
on an ongoing enforcement matter.  Deputy Search  The court case has hampered Cordray’s ability to find a
permanent replacement for Raj Date, the agency’s first deputy
who left to start a consulting firm, two people briefed on the
search said.  Cordray appointed Steve Antonakes, associate director for
supervision, enforcement and fair lending, as acting deputy on
Jan. 31. Cordray has interviewed candidates who have said they
are concerned that if his appointment is reversed they also
would be removed, the people said.  Zoeller, the Indiana attorney general, said the uncertainty
also hangs over the powers Dodd-Frank granted to state officials
to enforce federal consumer protection laws.  While working with state attorneys general has been a
signature of the consumer bureau since its inception, the states
are now holding back, fearful that they will be pulled into the
constitutional dispute.  “Nobody is eager to try out the new authority,” Zoeller
said. “You know you’ll end up fighting that in court.”  Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, a Democrat, said that
while the constitutional questions might slow an enforcement
case, that is temporary. His office continues to work with
Cordray and the agency, he said.  “The issue of Rich’s status will be decided, one way or
another, by the end of the year,” Miller said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  