-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as Fed Foreshadows Slowing Purchases
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-05-22T22:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-before-bernanke-testimony-fed-minutes.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit risk
rose after touching the lowest level in more than five years as
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress the
central bank may cut the pace of bond purchases at its next few
meetings if the labor market improves.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
1.7 basis points to a mid-price of 71.7 basis points, the
biggest increase since May 9, according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg. The measure earlier fell to as low as 67.9 basis
points, on track for the lowest closing level since Nov. 1,
2007, after Bernanke said in prepared congressional remarks that
reducing asset purchases too soon would endanger the economic
recovery.  Investors are weighing the Fed comments for indications of
when it might scale back stimulus measures that have has pumped
more than $2.5 trillion into the financial system since 2008,
making it easier for companies to refinance debt at yields that
dropped to record lows.  The central bank is debating when it should begin tapering
its $85 billion of monthly bond buying, with many members of its
policy-making committee saying more progress in the labor market
is needed before deciding to slow the pace, according to minutes
of the April 30-May 1 gathering released today in  Washington .  ‘Substantial Risk’  Prematurely reducing stimulus efforts may cause “ interest
rates  to rise temporarily but would also carry a substantial
risk of slowing or ending the economic recovery and causing
inflation to fall further,” Bernanke said in the remarks
prepared for his congressional testimony today.  Bernanke later told Congress the Fed could “step down”
the pace of asset purchases in the next few meetings if the
labor market continues to improve and “we have confidence that
that is going to be sustained.”  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  