-- Cuomo Creating Tax-Free Zones at SUNY Campuses to Boost Economy
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-05-22T17:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/cuomo-creating-tax-free-zones-at-suny-campuses-to-boost-economy.html
New York  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  said
he will create 120 million square feet of tax-free zones at 64
public university campuses outside of  New York City  to bolster
the upstate economy.  Companies and employees who work in the zones, which Cuomo
said will have more square footage than the commercial space in
 San Francisco  and Philadelphia combined, won’t have to pay
income, corporate, sales or property taxes. State University of
New York campuses include Binghamton, Oneonta, Cortland, Oswego
and Buffalo. The program will also cover 3 million square feet
(279,000 square meters) at private universities north of
Westchester County.  The proposal is meant to bring economic development to
upstate New York, a former industrial region that’s been in
decline for decades, by tying the SUNY system to companies that
could benefit from its research, Cuomo said. The plan builds on
Cuomo’s wider effort to counter New York’s image as a high-tax
state unfriendly to businesses.  “We have been in our own way,” Cuomo said today on the
campus of SUNY Albany. “This is about getting out of our own
way.”  From  Nebraska  to  Louisiana , Republican governors are
calling for the elimination of state income taxes. The tax-free
zones will make it “so no state in this nation can offer any
advantage that the state of New York isn’t offering,” said
Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat and a potential candidate in the
2016 presidential race.  Yogurt Summit  Cuomo has taken several initiatives to help upstate New
York, where he said the population fell 1.4 percent as the cost
of government rose 47 percent from 2000 to 2010. In August, he
held a meeting of state officials and business groups in Albany
to find ways to make it easier for the yogurt industry to thrive
among the region’s dairy farms. He’s since held similar summits
on the alcoholic-beverage and tourism industries.  Meanwhile, landowners in the Southern Tier along the
 Pennsylvania  border have criticized the governor for not moving
forward with hydraulic fracturing, a drilling process that could
tap the natural gas trapped in the Marcellus Shale. The rock
formation stretches to  West Virginia  and may hold enough natural
gas to supply the U.S. for about six years, according to the
federal Energy Department.  Fracking Debate  In Pennsylvania, fracking on the Marcellus Shale added
almost 24,000 jobs, $1.2 billion in income associated with
drilling and $1.9 billion to the state’s economy in 2009,
according to a 2011 study by Timothy Kelsey, a Pennsylvania
State University professor of agricultural economics.
Environmentalists say fracking, in which water and chemicals are
injected into rock at high volume, could damage water supplies
and make farmland unusable.  The tax-free zones will bring new businesses and jobs to
every corner of the state, Cuomo said today. All New York
residents live within 30 miles of a SUNY campus, he said.  Cuomo said businesses moving to the zones will return New
York to the days when leaders dreamed up the Erie Canal, the
waterway built in the 19th century that connected New York
Harbor to the Midwest and became the lifeblood of the upstate
economy.  “We are dreamers and we are a state of dreamers, but we
also have the courage and capacity to turn those dreams into
reality,” he said. “That’s what this generation has to do for
this state once again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in  Albany , New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  