-- Cyprus Will Lift Capital Controls ‘Gradually,’ Demetriades Says
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2013-05-22T11:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/cyprus-will-lift-capital-controls-gradually-demetriades-says.html
Cyprus will “gradually” relax
capital controls, including restrictions on deposit withdrawals,
to avoid outflows from the country’s banking system, Central
Bank of Cyprus Governor Panicos Demetriades said.  “Eliminating restrictions too abruptly can lead to
disruptive outflows and liquidity problems in the banking
sector,” Demetriades said in a speech in Nicosia today,
according to a transcript of his comments e-mailed by the
central bank.  Cyprus agreed on March 25 to a 10 billion-euro ($12.9
billion) loan from the euro area and the  International Monetary
Fund  in return for measures including a tax on bank deposits of
more than 100,000 euros. Those concessions were demanded by
creditors in a bid to shrink the country’s banking sector, and
have led to Cyprus needing to impose capital controls as it
wound down its second biggest lender Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl.  The country needs to consider the trade-off between freeing
payment flows and preserving financial stability and will lift
restrictions based on close monitoring of trends and of the
liquidity buffers of lenders, Demetriades said.  Capital controls are Cyprus’s biggest short-term problem
and the country is working “to steadily relax” them while
Cypriot lenders are showing resilience “under the
circumstances,” Finance Minister Haris Georgiades said in a
separate speech today in Nicosia.  Confidence Resumption  “I don’t believe in prolongation” of the controls,
Georgiades said.  Bank of Cyprus  needs to exit its restructuring
“urgently” as it will be difficult to end the controls until
then, he added.  Completion of the restructuring of the country’s banking
sector, including Bank of Cyprus, “is expected to lead to a
resumption of confidence and a gradual stabilization of
funding,” Demetriades said. “As soon as the banking system is
seen as having stabilized, confidence could return sooner,
allowing for the earlier removal of controls and a faster
recovery of economic activity.”  An independent fair value assessment of the assets and
liabilities of Bank of Cyprus and Cyprus Popular Bank will be
conducted by end June. That will be used to determine whether
additional capital is required to ensure a core Tier 1 ratio, a
measure of financial strength, of 9 percent, Demetriades said.  Any other of the country’s commercial or co-operative
lenders who need to be recapitalized will receive private or
public funds and uninsured depositors are not expected to
participate, Demetriades said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  