-- Stop With the Jew-Ranking Already!
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2013-05-22T15:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/dear-jewish-media-please-stop-making-lists-of-jews.html
The Jerusalem Post has just published
its annual ranking of the world’s  50 most influential Jews , and
I’m sorry but also somewhat relieved to report that I don’t
appear on it this year.  I’m sorry because one of my goals in life is to inhabit the
fever dreams of neo-Nazis, and nothing gets a neo-Nazi going
more than the specter of supernaturally powerful Jews. I’m
relieved because, who really wants to be on a target list? At a
certain point, the Post should just provide home addresses to
make the roundup even easier.  I last made the list in 2011, when I was ranked No. 35.
Eric Cantor, the U.S. House majority leader, placed
significantly ahead of me at No. 13, which I thought was
terribly unfair. On the other hand, I beat Natalie Portman, who
came in that year at No. 38. This was also unfair, but to
Portman, who is just a terrific Jew (2011 was the year she took
it to the fashion designer John Galliano for being an idiot
anti-Semite).  Speaking of neo-Nazis: It isn’t entirely clear to me why
the Jewish media (not the “Jewish-dominated media” of those
aforementioned fever dreams, but the press that actually cover
matters of interest to Jews) fetishizes list-making. The
Forward, a national U.S. Jewish weekly, publishes a  list  of the
top 50 American Jews (I once made that one as well, along with
Adam Sandler,  Sheldon Adelson  and a person named Lipa
Schmeltzer, which I half-suspect is a made-up name). And
 Newsweek , not technically a Jewish publication (or really a
publication at all anymore), publishes a list every year of the
 top 50 American rabbis , which is widely scorned by all American
rabbis except those who make the list.  Stop Already  I will admit that I’ve benefited in the past from making
these lists. What benefits, you ask? Well, an invitation to
guest-edit the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, plus a Zabar’s
gift card. But I’m writing today to ask that these publications
cease compiling lists of Jews.  There are some lists that have helped Jews in the past,
including, most notably, Schindler’s, but mainly Jewish list-making has been an activity of those who are hostile to Jews.
John J. Mearsheimer, the co-author of the “The Israel Lobby” and
an anti-Israel obsessive, gave a  notorious speech  in 2010 in
which he listed those Semites he considers to be “righteous
Jews,” which, by his definition, meant that small minority of
Jews who work against the existence of the Jewish state. (The
category of “righteous Jew” is Mearsheimer’s perversion of the
notion of the “righteous gentile,” an honor bestowed by the
Jewish community on gentiles who saved Jews in the Holocaust.
Mearsheimer falls into a special, unrelated category, that of
the “self-righteous gentile.”) Most Jews, he said, especially
those who lead Jewish organizations, are included in the camp of
“New Afrikaners,” which is self-explanatory. I think.  Then there was the list put together by Kalle Lasn, the
spiritual father of the Occupy movement, who published in his
magazine Adbusters an  article  titled “Why Won’t Anyone Say They
Are Jewish?,” which featured a list of people associated, in
Lasn’s mind, with neoconservatism. Those who Lasn suspected of
being Jewish found a little check mark next to their names.
(Lasn got a few wrong, perhaps because of that special way Jews
have of blending in with their surroundings.)  ‘Jewish Power’  So the lists published by the Post and the Forward always
leave me with a bit of a bad taste in my mouth. Why are these
publications aping a practice of non-Jews -- singling out Jews
for their special prominence in society? Please don’t
misunderstand; I love playing the “Who is a Jew?” game as much
as the next Semite. Scarlett Johansson! Jake Gyllenhaal! Anthony Weiner! (OK, you can keep Weiner.) The phenomenon of
disproportionate Jewish representation in many high-profile
fields (including, but not limited to, musical comedy,
gastroenterology, the violin, physics, hedge funds, column-writing and, in an earlier period, professional basketball),
combined with ancient and deeply embedded anti-Semitic ideas
that are still prevalent in some parts of the world, suggests
that they should resist the urge to quantify “Jewish power.”  Especially when the lists are illogical, like the one just
produced by the Post, which can’t decide whether a Jew is
powerful because of his influence within the walls of the world
Jewish community or because of his impact on the world around
him. So in the No. 1 spot this year is Yair Lapid, the Israeli
finance minister, who led his centrist party, Yesh Atid, to a
surprisingly strong showing in the most recent Israeli election.
Put aside the question of whether Lapid is still so powerful in
Israeli politics. Is he really more powerful than  Mark Zuckerberg , who doesn’t even make the top 10? (Zuckerberg’s
deputy, Sheryl Sandberg, hits the list at No. 8, but not mainly
for her work at Facebook.)  Lapid is more powerful than Zuckerberg only in the sense
that Zuckerberg is not the head of a smallish Israeli political
party. Zuckerberg is No. 16 on the list; Google co-founder
 Sergey Brin  is No. 6, ahead of the Israeli defense minister,
Moshe Ya’alon, but behind Anat Hoffman, an Israeli feminist
leader trying to reform religious practices at the Western Wall,
which may or may not be a concern of the Post’s No. 2 most
powerful Jew, U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew, who I’m
reasonably sure doesn’t find it entirely useful to show up on
lists like this. The superannuated sex doctor Ruth Westheimer,
who lands at No. 41, is undoubtedly pleased to make the list,
and I’m reasonably sure that the comedian Jon Stewart (No. 7),
appreciates, if doesn’t quite understand, appearing on any list
that features Dr. Ruth. It isn’t clear to me that U.S. Supreme
Court Justice Elena Kagan would look kindly upon being ranked
only slightly higher than “Girls” creator Lena Dunham (or that
she is even aware of Lena Dunham’s existence).  The saving grace of the Post list this year is that an
ardent anti-Semite, studying the standings, will quickly note
the absence of Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke (A “No” on
Bernanke, but a “Yes” on Diane von Furstenberg? Please
explain.), conclude that the list itself is part of a Jewish
conspiracy to confuse those who seek to expose Jewish influence,
and move on to obsessing about the secret Mossad conspiracy
behind the  Boston Marathon bombings , or something.  Of course, the real downfall of this year’s list, apart
from its fundamental incoherence, is the unaccountable absence
of Natalie Portman.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 