-- Denso Executives to Serve Jail Terms in U.S. for Price Fixing
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-05-22T04:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/denso-executives-to-serve-jail-terms-in-u-s-for-price-fixing.html
Two executives at Japan’s  Denso Corp. (6902) 
agreed to serve U.S. jail terms for conspiring to fix prices of
components sold to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as part of an antitrust
probe into the industry, the Justice Department said.  Yuji Suzuki and  Hiroshi Watanabe , who worked at Denso’s
Toyota sales division, agreed to plead guilty for their roles
and serve prison terms of 16 months and 15 months, respectively,
the U.S. Justice Department said in a  statement  yesterday. Both
agreed to pay fines of $20,000 each, according to the statement.  The price-fixing probe into the industry has resulted in 14
executives and nine companies pleading guilty in the U.S., and
more than $809 million in criminal fines. Auto-parts makers have
been under investigation in the U.S., the European Union and
Japan since 2010, with Japanese companies receiving the biggest
penalties.  “We take the decision seriously,” said Goro Kanemasu, a
spokesman for Kariya, Japan-based Denso, which last year pleaded
guilty and drew a $78 million fine. “We’re asking all our
employees once again to abide by antitrust laws.”  Denso is  Japan ’s largest auto-parts maker and the biggest
supplier of components to Toyota, which in turn is the world’s
biggest carmaker. Denso declined to make the executives
available for comment.  “One of Toyota’s basic principles is to strictly follow
the letter and spirit of laws inside and outside Japan and to
operate in an open and fair manner,” said Dion Corbett, a
Tokyo-based spokesman at Toyota. “We require our suppliers to
thoroughly comply with all laws and regulations, including
antitrust laws.”  Rigging Bids  Suzuki is accused in a criminal information filed yesterday
in federal court in  Detroit  of conspiring to rig bids and fix
prices of electronic control units and heater control panels
sold to Toyota from as early as 2005 until 2008, according to
the  Justice Department  statement. Watanabe is charged with one
count of conspiring to rig bids and fixing prices of heater
control panels sold to Toyota from at least 2008 until 2010,
according to the criminal information filed against him.  “The conspirators reached agreements to fix prices and
allocate bids, and took measures such as using code names and
meeting in secret to cover their tracks,” said Scott D. Hammond, Deputy Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust
Division’s criminal enforcement program. “Cracking down on
international price-fixing cartels that target U.S. businesses
and consumers has been, and will continue to be, among the top
priorities for the Antitrust Division.”  Denso fell 1.4 percent to 4,835 yen at 1:12 p.m. in Tokyo
trading, while the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.2
percent.  The cases are U.S. v. Suzuki, 13-cr-20382, and U.S. v.
Watanabe, 13-cr-20381, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
 Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  