-- Departing Bank Watchdog Dickson Keeps Focus on Risks
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-05-22T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/departing-bank-watchdog-dickson-keeps-focus-on-risks.html
Canada ’s banking regulator Julie Dickson says that her agency is a dark place, and that gives her
comfort as she prepares to enter her final year on the job.  Dickson, speaking yesterday at Bloomberg’s Canada Economic
Summit in Toronto, said she won’t seek another term as top bank
watchdog when her seven-year tenure ends in July 2014, ending a
reign that saw her emphasize safety over growth as head of the
Ottawa-based Office of the Superintendent of Financial
Institutions, which helped make Canadian lenders world beaters.  “As some have noted, ‘OSFI is a dark place’ because of our
focus on all the things that can go wrong,” Dickson, 55, said
in her  speech  yesterday. “But it is a focus that has proven to
be valuable and this gives me comfort that Canada will continue
to enjoy a safe and sound financial system.”  Canadian banks held four of the top 10 spots in Bloomberg
Markets magazine’s annual ranking of the world’s strongest
banks, released this month. The industry also has been ranked
the world’s soundest for the past five years by the Geneva-based
 World Economic Forum .  Dickson’s record has been marked by prudence and detailed
monitoring that has been met with some resistance within the
industry.  Last year, the Canadian Bankers Association said policy
makers should “hit the pause button” to take stock of rules
put in place since the financial crisis.  “It’s a tough job, it’s a thankless job,” Scotiabank
Chief Executive Officer Rick Waugh said yesterday at the
Bloomberg conference. Waugh also cited work by Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  and Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  in helping
the nation largely escape the worst of the global financial
crisis.  Much Credit  “There was a lot of credit to share and she certainly gets
it too,” Waugh said.  Dickson has focused on bolstering stress tests at financial
institutions, even while warning them not to take “false
comfort” from the results. She also led a broad review of the
country’s six biggest banks and three biggest life insurance
companies as part of efforts to augment their governance and
risk management.  Day-to-day monitoring of banks and insurers has increased
under her watch, with OSFI burrowing deeper into the books of
their units and subsidiaries. Her agency’s most recent focus has
been on the impact of growing household debt and rising home
prices, which prompted a tightening in mortgage underwriting
rules last year.  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan Chief Executive James Leech
said he gives Dickson “full marks” for identifying risks to
the financial system before they became realities.  Low Rates  “They were fast to recognize areas of risk and bring them
to people’s attention,” Leech said at the same event.  Dickson’s focus recently has turned to how low  interest
rates  may be threatening to increase risks for the country’s
lenders.  Four years after the deepest recession since World War II,
central banks are still combating sluggish economies with
interest-rate cuts and asset purchases. So far this month,
monetary authorities overseeing a quarter of global gross
domestic product have lowered rates, including those of the
euro-area, Australia and  Israel . Canada’s policy rate has been
unchanged at 1 percent since September 2010.  Bank regulation and supervision need to be a “strong line
of defense” against the consequences of sustained low interest
rates, which could include falling margins and increased
reliance on higher-yielding assets, Dickson said yesterday.  More Risk  The regulator “is very focused on how banks are reacting
to current conditions,” said Dickson. “The longer the low
interest-rate environment persists, the more interest-rate risk
can be built up.”  It was concern about complacency that led the regulator to
make the nation’s banks meet new capital standards ahead of
global peers. The rules require Canadian banks to hold a minimum
buffer of 7 percent common equity this year.  Dickson has also labeled Canada’s six biggest banks as
“systemically important,” requiring them to set aside more
capital to safeguard against failure.  The six banks will be subject to a surcharge equal to 1
percent of risk weighted capital by Jan. 1, 2016. At the end of
January, five of the six banks had tier 1 common equity ratios
ranging from 8.2 percent to 9.6 percent.  National Bank (NA) , the
smallest of the six by assets, had a 7.9 percent ratio.  Dickson, born in Saint John,  New Brunswick  in eastern
Canada, is the first woman to be Canada’s top banking regulator.
None of Canada’s six largest banks has had a female CEO. The two
largest lenders by assets, Royal Bank and Toronto-Dominion, have
female financial chiefs.  Queen’s Alum  Dickson studied economics at Queen’s University in
Kingston, Ontario, the alma mater of Royal Bank CEO  Gordon Nixon . Before joining OSFI, she worked 15 years at the finance
department as Canada revamped industry regulations and
legislation following the failure of two small banks and
Confederation Life in the 1980s and 1990s. At finance, she
worked with Nicholas Le  Pan , her eventual predecessor at OSFI.  Dickson joined Le Pan at OSFI in 1999. Their time has been
marked by a more hands-on approach after the regulator received
additional powers to intervene quickly with troubled lenders.  Dickson replaced Le Pan as OSFI chief on an interim basis
in 2006 and began a seven-year term in July 2007. That was just
as the U.S. subprime mortgage market was beginning to collapse,
profits at Canadian banks were falling and the industry was
struggling to sell commercial paper.  Losing Favor  Her departure is coming at a time when banks have been
 losing favor  with investors. Royal Bank of Canada, Bank of  Nova
Scotia  and six other large Canadian lenders are trading at the
lowest premium to U.S. bank stocks in more than two years.  The spread between the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial
Banks Index and the KBW Bank Index of 24 U.S. lenders is at its
narrowest since January 2011, based on price to tangible book
value per share, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Dickson said her focus is on solvency not on profitability.
Canada’s financial system continues to be “quite resilient”
and banks are stronger today than they were six years ago,
Dickson said during a question-and-answer period yesterday.  “In 2013, the system is far sounder than it was in 2007,”
she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Toronto at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  