-- Detroit ‘Crushing’ Debt Among First City Overhauls, Orr Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-05-22T19:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/detroit-crushing-debt-among-first-overhauls-for-city-orr-says.html
Detroit’s bond payments are
“crushing” the city by hindering spending on public safety and
are among the first liabilities that need to be addressed,
emergency financial manager Kevyn Orr said.  “The debt service that the city can’t bear is crushing it
under its weight,” Orr said at a luncheon in  New York  for the
bankruptcy and reorganization group of the UJA-Federation of New
York, a Jewish philanthropic organization. “First order of
business is to get a hold of our balance-sheet issues.”  Orr, 55, appointed by Republican Governor  Rick Snyder  in
March, said in a report May 12 that the cost of $9.4 billion in
bond, pension and other long-term liabilities is sapping the
city’s ability to protect and transport its citizens. Orr listed
reducing debt principal, retiree benefits and jobs among his
options to avert a city bankruptcy.  The city of 707,000,  Michigan ’s biggest, has a Caa2
general-obligation rank from Moody’s Investors Service. That’s
eight steps below investment grade. Orr’s report is “setting
the stage for reductions to all stakeholders, including
bondholders,” Moody’s said last week.  Investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal market have marked
down city debt since Orr’s report. Tax-exempt Detroit general-obligation bonds maturing in April 2015 traded today at an
average of 91 cents on the dollar, down from about 96 cents
earlier in the month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Equal Treatment’  “I have to start meeting with many of the stakeholders,
both on the labor side and on the credit side,” Orr said at the
luncheon. Some of them were either in attendance or represented
at the gathering of about 1,100 people, he said.  “I want to find a way for equal treatment for all
creditors within their creditor class,” Orr said.  A lawyer who worked on the 2009 bankruptcy of the former
Chrysler LLC, Orr has said he hopes to keep  Detroit  from seeking
court protection by negotiating with creditors and reining in
retirement costs. He has the authority to change or cancel
employee union contracts under certain conditions.  Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon has said he’s been told
Detroit would be the largest U.S. municipality to declare
bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  