-- Deutsche Telekom Said to Kick Off Web Classifieds Unit Sale
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2013-05-22T21:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/deutsche-telekom-said-to-kick-off-sale-of-scout-classifieds-unit.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , Germany’s
biggest phone company, is set to kick off the sale of its
Scout24 Holding GmbH digital classifieds business, said three
people familiar with the process.  Initial information documents will be sent to potential
strategic and financial buyers at the beginning of June, said
the people. Deutsche Telekom is mulling the sale of a minority
stake or the whole business, and may seek a valuation of as much
as 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion), they said.  The sales documents, known as teasers, will probably go to
strategic buyers including  Axel Springer AG (SPR) ,  eBay Inc. (EBAY)  and
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  as well as buyout firms including KKR & Co., Apax
Partners LLP, Advent International Corp. and EQT Partners AB,
they said. Deutsche Telekom, based in Bonn, could also team up
with one of the buyers to help expand Scout24, they said.  Europe ’s phone companies are looking to offload Internet
and content businesses as they seek to raise money for building
high-speed mobile networks.  Telefonica SA (TEF)  of  Spain  last year
sold its stake in online travel agency Rumbo, while  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT)  divested a television unit in March.  Scout24 has 13 million monthly users and operates in 22
countries providing online classifieds for cars, properties,
jobs, travel and relationships, according to its  website .  Deutsche Telekom spokesman Andreas Leigers referred to
previous comments stating that the company is conducting an
ongoing strategic review of Scout24, and that no decision has
been made. He declined to comment further on “speculation.”  Deutsche Telekom added 0.2 percent to close at 9.47 euros
in Frankfurt trading. The stock has risen 10 percent this year,
valuing the company at 40.9 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  