-- Diamond Said to Weigh Backing Barclays Alumni in Venture
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-05-23T16:15:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/diamond-said-to-weigh-backing-barclays-alumni-in-venture.html
Robert Diamond , who stepped down as
head of  Barclays Plc (BARC)  last year amid a rate-rigging scandal, is
considering backing a firm started by former executives at the
bank’s investment unit that was acquired by  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  in
2009, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Diamond, in one of his first moves since resigning after
Barclays’s 290 million-pound ($436.2 million) fine for
manipulating global  interest rates , is in talks to provide
capital to Incapture LLC, according to the person, who asked not
to be identified because the information isn’t public. The one-year-old firm is planning to start investment strategies
including a hedge fund supported by technology it’s developed.  Diamond, 61, would be supporting former colleagues
including Peter Knez and Mark D’Andrea. Knez, former chief
investment officer of fixed income at  Barclays Global Investors 
and then BlackRock, founded Incapture in 2012. He has recruited
at least eight former BGI executives to join him, including
D’Andrea, who worked with large institutional clients at BGI and
BlackRock before joining hedge-fund firm HighBridge Capital
Management LLC in January 2011.  Diamond’s talks with Incapture are continuing and a final
agreement hasn’t been reached, the person said. Anthony
Silverman, a spokesman for Diamond, declined to comment.  BGI Sale  Barclays sold BGI to BlackRock in December 2009 for about
$15.2 billion after the bank suffered $18.6 billion of credit
losses and writedowns during the global financial crisis. The
acquisition of BGI, manager of mostly passive strategies
including the iShares exchange-traded funds, more than doubled
BlackRock’s assets and made it the biggest  money manager  in the
world. As part of the deal, Barclays took a 19.6 percent  stake 
in BlackRock and Diamond was given a seat on the board of
directors. Last year, Barclays sold its holding in BlackRock
amid tighter  capital requirements  and Diamond gave up his seat.  Diamond was chairman of BGI when Knez joined the asset-management unit as head of U.S. bond research before being
promoted to chief investment officer for global fixed income in
2004. Knez oversaw more than $500 billion in assets across hedge
fund, long-only and index strategies. Knez previously worked at
money manager Lincoln Capital Management. D’Andrea, who joined
BGI in 2001, managed strategic client relationships that helped
develop BGI’s alternatives business.  Among the executives who departed after BlackRock acquired
BGI were Knez, BGI’s CEO Blake Grossman and Lee Kranefuss, CEO
of iShares. Richard Grinold, former global head of investment
research, left, as did Nicolaas Marais, who joined  Schroders Plc (SDR) 
as head of multi-asset solutions in March 2011.  Hedge Fund  Knez, who declined to comment on Diamond’s involvement in
the firm, said the firm has a technology unit called Incapture
Technologies and an asset-management division named Incapture
Investments. Incapture’s technology business will focus on
providing a cloud-based platform and software for financial
institutions.  The investment arm of Incapture will have a multi-asset
hedge fund, which will seek to exploit mispriced assets, and a
so-called smart-beta fund, focused on identifying asset classes
that have the best potential return relative to risk. Incapture
is lining up  seed capital  for the funds and the investment unit
will take advantage of the firm’s technology when making
investment decisions, Knez said.  “Incapture was created to meet the demand we see from
investors to gain exposure to broadly diversified, efficient
sources of return,” said Knez, 58, who’s based in  San Francisco 
and New York. “We believe that leveraging enterprise cloud
computing technology will provide the foundation for delivering
world-class investment solutions.”  Former Colleagues  Joining Knez at Incapture are former BGI executives Alan
Moore as chief information officer, Peter Wilson as head of
Incapture Technology solutions, and Brent Canada as chief
operating officer. Eddy Vataru, who was head of mortgage-backed
securities and U.S. rates at BGI and BlackRock, was hired as
senior portfolio manager at Incapture. Manjunath Boraiah, who
previously worked on emerging-market rates and credit at BGI, is
responsible for building Incapture’s research platform and
integrating that with the technology platform. Ryoichi Yamabe,
who joined BGI in 2007 and was most recently head of fixed-income strategy and model-based fixed-income investments for
BlackRock in  Japan , will head Incapture’s business in  Tokyo .  Alpha Fund  One of the funds designed by Knez at BGI is the Fixed
Income Global Alpha Fund, which opened in June 2006. It returned
4 percent in 2007, fell 6.4 percent in 2008 and rose 28 percent
in 2009, according to an investor update. The fund, now managed
by BlackRock, had an annualized return of 11 percent and
cumulative return of 94 percent since inception as of the end of
2012, according to the update.  Under Diamond, Barclays employees were accused of trying to
rig the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, a global
benchmark for lenders, credit providers and an array of
financial agreements. Diamond joined the bank in 1996 and rose
to CEO after running the investment banking unit for about 13
years. He hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  