-- Dollar Advances as Bernanke Says Fed May Taper Purchases
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-05-22T21:20:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/dollar-advances-as-bernanke-says-fed-may-taper-soon.html
The dollar rose against most major
peers after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank may taper monthly bond purchases at its next few
meetings if it’s confident of sustained gains in the economy.  The greenback fell earlier to a one-week low versus the
euro as Bernanke told Congress the  U.S. economy  remains hampered
by high unemployment and government spending cuts, and
tightening policy too soon would endanger the recovery. The
franc fell to a two-year low versus the euro after Swiss
National Bank President Thomas Jordan said an adjustment of the
currency’s cap was possible.  “As soon as his conversation shifted toward the timing of
a tapering, effectively of a dial-down in purchases,” the
dollar began to rally,  Alan Ruskin , the New York-based global
head of Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank
AG, said in a telephone interview. “We’re notching up another
notable day where the dollar is up against everything, and it’s
giving you that almost universal strong-dollar story.”  The U.S. currency gained 0.4 percent to $1.2858 per euro at
5 p.m. in  New York  after falling earlier to $1.2998, the weakest
level since May 14. The yen declined 0.6 percent to 103.16 per
dollar and touched 103.74, a level not seen since October 2008.
Against the euro, the Japanese currency dropped as much as 1.2
percent to 133.80, the least since January 2010, before trading
0.3 percent lower at 132.63.  The dollar remained higher versus the euro even after
minutes released by the Fed of its last policy meeting showed
many officials said more labor-market progress was needed before
they slow asset purchases.  ‘Doesn’t Believe’  “It’s definitely dovish, it’s just that the market doesn’t
believe it,”  Sebastien Galy , a foreign-exchange strategist at
Societe Generale SA in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“The market is more bullish on the U.S. economy than the Fed
actually is, and the market is trading it. We’re seeing an
interesting divergence.”  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $54 billion, compared with $38 billion yesterday,
according to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust
Clearing Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on
the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $16 billion, the
largest share of trades at 29 percent. Euro-dollar options were
the second most-actively traded, at $7.1 billion, or 13 percent.  Euro-dollar options trading was 56 percent above the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Dollar-yen options trading
was 75 percent above average.  Franc Drops  The Swiss franc weakened versus most major peers after
central-bank President Jordan said a shift of the 1.20-per-euro
cap on the currency and negative  interest rates  are among
measures it may take to prevent a tightening of monetary
conditions.  The currency declined 0.5 percent to 1.2581 per euro and
reached 1.2650, the weakest level since May 2011. The franc
dropped 0.8 percent to 97.83 centimes per dollar and touched
98.39, the least since August.  Sterling declined to a one-month low against the euro after
data showed U.K. retail sales unexpectedly dropped last month
and minutes of the  Bank of England ’s May 8-9 meeting showed
Governor  Mervyn King  was defeated for a fourth month in his bid
to expand stimulus.  The pound fell 0.3 percent to 85.45 pence per euro after
depreciating to 85.90 pence, the weakest since April 22. The
U.K. currency declined 0.7 percent to $1.5050 and touched
$1.5020, the weakest since March 14.  Aussie Slides  Australia ’s currency lost 1.1 percent to 96.99 U.S. cents
after a gauge of  consumer confidence  slumped by the most in 17
months. The Aussie reached 96.62 cents, the least since June.  The yen slid earlier against most major counterparts after
the  Bank of Japan  affirmed a plan to double the monetary base
over two years.  BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda told reporters in  Tokyo  the
central bank will conduct its debt purchases in a flexible
manner, and that recent volatility in  government securities 
isn’t yet affecting the economy. The central bank said it will
expand the supply of money in the Japanese economy by 60
trillion yen ($582 billion) to 70 trillion yen a year, as
pledged in April.  Trade Deficit  A government report showed  Japan ’s  trade deficit  swelled
more in April than analysts forecast, expanding to 879.9 billion
yen, the widest in three months.  “The yen appears to have got its first push lower from
disappointing trade data that showed the weaker-yen trend still
has some way to go,” said Eimear Daly, a currency analyst at
Monex Europe Ltd. in  London .  The Japanese currency has tumbled 13 percent this year
versus nine developed-market peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the biggest loser. The euro
advanced 2.6 percent, and the dollar climbed 5.5 percent.  Treasury yields rose as Bernanke said the central bank
could “step down” asset buying in the next few meetings and is
continuing to assess prospects for the job market.  “If we see continued improvement, and we have confidence
that that is going to be sustained, in the next few meetings we
could take a step down in our pace of purchases,” the Fed chief
said.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  said May 1
after a two-day meeting the central bank may quicken or slow
monthly purchases of $85 billion of Treasury and mortgage
securities in response to labor-market and inflation changes.  “Most observed that the outlook for the labor market had
shown progress,” according to meeting minutes released today.
“But many of these participants indicated that continued
progress, more confidence in the outlook, or diminished downside
risks would be required before slowing the pace of purchases
would become appropriate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  