-- Hedge Funds Trail S&P 500 by 10 Percentage Points, Goldman Says
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-05-22T15:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/hedge-funds-trail-s-p-500-by-10-percentage-points-goldman-says.html
Hedge funds’ returns have stayed
“lackluster” this year, with the $2.3 trillion industry
trailing the gains of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index by about
10 percentage points, according to  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc.  Hedge funds gained 5.4 percent on average through May 10,
compared with a 15.4 percent rise for the  S&P 500 (SPX)  and a 14.8
percent increase for the typical mutual fund, a team of Goldman
Sachs analysts led by Amanda Sneider and  David Kostin  wrote in a
report released today.  Hedge-fund managers have been hurt in 2013 by their bearish
wagers on stocks, with “popular” shorts such as  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  and Gilead Sciences Inc. rising more than the broader
equity market, Goldman Sachs said. Fewer than 5 percent of the
hedge funds tracked by New York-based Goldman Sachs are beating
the  S&P 500  or a typical mutual fund that buys stocks of the
biggest U.S. companies.  A “multi-year trend of lackluster hedge-fund returns
continues in 2013,” the analysts wrote. “Strong long
performance was not enough to outweigh the drag from popular
short positions.”  Hedge funds, which typically charge clients a 2 percent
management fee and 20 percent of any investment gains, are
private pools of capital that can bet on both rising and falling
asset prices. From the start of 2009 to the end of April this
year, the  average fund  has risen 21 percent after fees, compared
with a 77 percent gain for the U.S. benchmark S&P 500, data
compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Hedge funds are currently 53 percent “net long,” the
highest percentage since the first quarter of 2007, according to
Goldman Sachs. The figure is derived by subtracting bets that
stocks will fall from wagers that they will rise.  The stocks hedge funds are most bullish on include  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , Google Inc., Apple Inc. and Citigroup
Inc., according to Goldman, which analyzed equities that appear
most frequently among the top 10 holdings of fund managers.  Stocks hedge funds are most commonly shorting include
Johnson & Johnson, Intel Corp., International Business Machines
Corp. and  Gilead (GILD) , the Goldman Sachs analysts said. In a short
sale, traders borrow shares from a broker and sell them, hoping
to buy back the stock at a lower price. They then return the
borrowed shares to their broker and pocket the difference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  