-- Egypt Boosts FX Sale for Commodities as S&P Warns on Inflation
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-05-22T09:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/egypt-boosts-fx-sale-for-commodities-as-s-p-warns-on-inflation.html
Egypt ’s central bank will offer a
record $800 million at a currency auction to local lenders today
to finance imports of staple foods and medicines after Standard
& Poor’s warned of accelerating inflation.  The regulator, which normally offers $40 million at each
auction, is holding a second so-called exceptional sale
specifically targeting basic commodities. It sold $600 million
at the first such auction last month. Egypt said this month it
received $3 billion in aid from  Qatar , helping replenish foreign
reserves that stood at $14.4 billion, covering about three
months of imports, at the end of April.  Depreciation of the pound at the sales helped fuel
inflation, pushing consumer prices up 1.5 percent in April from
March, driven by a 2.7 percent surge in food prices, according
to government data. The central bank has given banks more than
$3 billion since starting the auctions to ration the supply in
December. The pound was unchanged at 6.9819 a dollar at 9:51
a.m. in Cairo. It lost 11 percent since the start of the sales.  “The depreciating exchange rate, together with increasing
central bank financing of the government, is likely to lift
inflation in Egypt above already relatively high levels,”
 Trevor Cullinan , a Standard & Poor’s credit analyst, said in a
report yesterday. “Strong inflation growth through an erosion
of real incomes would reduce the already low standard of living
for the majority of the population.”  Banks are required to sell the dollars from today’s auction
to clients that import food including wheat, milk, oil, meat and
poultry, medicines, capital goods spare parts, raw materials and
intermediary production components, the central bank said.
Quotas that limit how much banks can receive at the sales are
inapplicable today.  The yield on the government’s benchmark $1 billion of 5.75
percent bonds due in 2020 advanced for a fifth day, rising two
basis points, or 0.02 of a percentage point, to 7.55 percent.
That’s the highest level on a closing basis since April 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  