-- Mursi Pledges to Develop Sinai as Egyptian Hostages Freed
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-05-22T14:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/egypt-s-army-says-seven-hostages-taken-in-sinai-are-free.html
Suspected militants released seven
security personnel in  Egypt , after a weeklong ordeal that
threatened to escalate into a large-scale military operation to
free them.  The hostage-taking added to the pressures facing President
Mohamed Mursi as he tries to steer a nation reeling from a
deepening rift between Islamists and secularists and its slowest
economic growth in two decades. Mursi used the release of the
six police officers and soldier today to vow to develop the
restive Sinai desert peninsula where they were captured, and to
urge Egyptians to put aside their differences in the broader
interests of the nation.  “Egypt is bigger and more important than us,” Mursi said
in a televised news conference at the airport, where he greeted
the freed men with embraces and kisses to the cheek. All
Egyptians should “join forces, work toward the same goals,” he
said, lauding Sinai residents and tribesmen for their help in
freeing the captives.  Security forces had escalated their deployment in the
peninsula after the seven were captured May 16, and Mursi had
said all options were on the table, while ruling out
negotiations with what his office described as “criminals.”
Today, he promised to bring the captors to justice.  Details Scarce  Few details were made available about what pressured the
men’s captors to release the hostages, who appeared in a YouTube
video several days after they were seized, their eyes
blindfolded, their hands tied behind their backs and appealing
to Mursi to meet the kidnappers’ demands to free Sinai
“political detainees.” Presidential spokesman Ehab Fahmy told
reporters today the release came without any deals, promises or
bargains with the captors.  The army said on its Facebook page that the hostages were
freed through the efforts of military intelligence in
cooperation with the “honorable tribal leaders and residents of
Sinai.” The men were released in the middle of the desert,
about 70 kilometers (44 miles) south of the town of El-Arish,
the state-run Ahram Gate website reported, citing an
unidentified security official.  Neglected Territory  The Sinai, a strategic territory that borders the
Palestinian  Gaza Strip  and  Israel  to the east, was neglected
under longtime President  Hosni Mubarak , and Arab tribes there
complained of discrimination and a lack of services.  The desert triangle has grown increasingly restive since
Mubarak’s ouster in 2011, with security forces a frequent
target. The difficult terrain has made it a fertile ground for
militants and criminals to operate and the area is awash in
weapons, many smuggled in from  Libya , officials say.  The hostage-taking was the most serious incident involving
security forces there since 16 Egyptian border guards were
killed by suspected militants in August -- an attack that also
triggered a stepped-up military and police deployment.  “This success must be invested to comprehensively deal
with Sinai’s issues, which shook state sovereignty and national
security” and where “grievances massed and development was
lacking,” secular former lawmaker Amr Hamzawy said on his
official Twitter account.  Troubled Dialogue  The crisis played into the country’s troubled political
dialogue, with Mursi’s critics pointing to it and the security
situation in Sinai as an example of how the country was being
mismanaged.  His spokesman denied media reports there were rifts between
the presidency and the military over how to handle the hostage-taking.  The National Salvation Front opposition bloc said it
welcomed the release of the young men, though more clarity was
needed about the situation in Sinai.  “It’s not enough for the government to show up and say
Sinai is secure,” Khaled Dawoud, an NSF spokesman, said by
phone. “It’s time for the government to work on a plan to avoid
such a terrible incident” being repeated.  Mursi called on all who are armed in Sinai to give up their
weapons. He said freeing the hostages was the “first step in a
long process” and that the next stage was the “development of
Sinai and giving its people their rights.”  “Let’s reconcile with the businessmen who want to build
development projects, including in Sinai,” he said.  Interior Minister Mohamed Ibrahim said Ahmed Abu Sheta, the
imprisoned leader of the Islamist Tawhid and Jihad group, may be
linked to the kidnapping, the state-run Middle East  News Agency 
said yesterday.  He said the abduction was planned two months ago after an
incident between Abu Sheta and a police officer inside the
prison where he’s being held. The kidnappers had an arsenal that
included SAM-7 surface-to-air missiles, anti-tank missiles and
landmines, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  