-- Lehman Selling Shares of Equity Residential, AvalonBay
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-05-23T20:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/lehman-to-sell-shares-of-equity-residential-avalonbay.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. is
selling about half the shares it owns in  Equity Residential (EQR)  and
 AvalonBay (AVB)  Communities Inc., the two largest U.S. apartment
companies, removing a weight on multifamily stocks.  Lehman’s Jupiter Enterprise LP affiliate is offering 15.1
million shares in Equity Residential, the largest U.S. real
estate investment trust focused on apartments, and 7.87 million
shares in AvalonBay, the second-biggest, the REITs said
yesterday in separate statements. Jupiter had been barred from
selling the stock under a lock-up period that ended last month.  Lehman acquired the shares when it sold its biggest
property holding, apartment owner Archstone Inc., to Equity
Residential and AvalonBay earlier this year in a deal valued at
$6.5 billion in cash and stock. The share sale eliminates an
“overhang” from multifamily stocks, whose performance had been
lagging behind other commercial property types because of
concern that Lehman would liquidate its stakes,  Richard Anderson , a REIT analyst from BMO Capital Markets in New York,
said in a report today.  “The smoother the shares are released into the market, the
smoother the runway will be for the sector to make up lost
ground,” Anderson wrote. “We can envision a positive reaction
in multifamily stocks -– on the view that the end would then be
in sight.”  Share Performance  A  Bloomberg index  of 16 multifamily REITs gained 2.3
percent in the past 12 months, compared with an average of 20
percent for the entire REIT  sector . Offices, the second-worst
 performer  after apartments, rose 16 percent in the same time
period.  The shares of AvalonBay are being offered for $137 each,
the Arlington, Virginia-based company said today in a statement.
The shares of Chicago-based Equity Residential were priced at
$58.40, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  AvalonBay climbed 0.3 percent to $138.99 today in  New York 
trading. Equity Residential rose 1.8 percent to $60.18.  Lehman is the second-largest shareholder of both apartment
REITs, with 34.5 million Equity Residential shares and 14.9
million shares of AvalonBay as of March 31, Bloomberg data show.
The sale reduces its holdings to about 5 percent of each
company, Anderson estimated.  “Our guess is that Lehman thinks it is selling enough to
relieve the burden of the overhang, while providing it a still
sizable opportunity to sell the rest at a higher level,”
Anderson wrote. “We believe Lehman may be committed to holding
the remaining shares for an extended period.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is the underwriter for both share
offerings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  