-- Telecom Italia Is Said to Value Fixed-Line Assets at $18B
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-05-23T12:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/telecom-italia-is-said-to-value-fixed-line-assets-at-18b.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , the carrier that
is preparing a spinoff of its fixed-line assets, forecasts
profit that could value the network at about 14 billion euros
($18 billion), based on internal documents seen by Bloomberg.  Sales at the new company, called Opac SpA, are forecast to
slip 0.3 percent this year to 4.6 billion euros from 2012, while
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
will probably decline 1.6 percent to 2.33 billion euros,
according to the documents. The  valuation  is based on a multiple
of six times Ebitda, said a person with knowledge of the matter,
asking not to be named because the numbers are confidential.  As Telecom Italia’s  board  prepares to gather in  Rome  today
to review the spinoff plan,  Standard & Poor’s  cut the former
phone monopoly’s rating to one step above junk, citing  Italy ’s
“tough” economic environment and competition in its mobile-phone business. While the Milan-based carrier is aiming to reach
a decision on the spinoff project today, board members may ask
for additional time and may call for further meetings in the
coming weeks, partly because a separation would involve the
transfer of as many as 20,000 positions, or  one out of every
four  workers, the person said.  ‘Complex Road’  “Even if the board decides to pursue a deal today there is
absolutely no guarantee that one will happen,”  Robin
Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, wrote in an e-mail. “On the contrary the road to deal completion appears very
complex.”  Telecom Italia is considering a sale of an initial 30
percent stake in the new company to state lender Cassa Depositi
e Prestiti after a separation, people familiar with the matter
said last month. The move could generate cash used to pare  net
debt  -- which at 28.8 billion euros at the end of March is more
than double Telecom Italia’s market value -- and reinvest in
expanding coverage.  If Telecom Italia proceeds with separation proposal, it
would also need to hold talks with Agcom, the country’s
telecommunications regulator, and agree on a framework of rules
governing the new company to ensure rivals have access to its
transmission network, the person said.  A Telecom Italia representative declined to comment on the
spinoff plan, earnings projections and valuation.  Share Fall  Telecom Italia shares fell 1.4 percent to 65.3 cents at
2:15 p.m. in Milan trading. Telco SpA, the biggest  shareholder 
with a 22.4 percent stake, wrote down the value of its stake to
1.20 euros a share in February. Its investors include
Telefonica,  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Intesa Sanpaolo SpA and
investment bank Mediobanca SpA.  The carrier is separately evaluating a possible combination
of its wireless unit with  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s 3 Italia,
although  Telefonica SA (TEF) , one of Telecom Italia’s biggest
shareholders, remains skeptical of a transaction, people
familiar with the matter have said.  In 2008, Telecom Italia created Open Access, a division
that manages the grid and offers access to competitors, about
two years after  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  established a similar, fully-owned
unit called Openreach. Yet, to fully separate a fixed-line
network -- considered strategic assets by many governments --
would be unique among European carriers in recent years.  20,000 Jobs  Industry Minister Flavio Zanonato told Parliament yesterday
that the government would closely monitor Telecom Italia’s
separation plan.  The government is in favor of naming a Cassa Depositi e
Prestiti executive to oversee the new company as its chairman
and to ensure a level playing field for other carriers, while
Telecom Italia could name its CEO, another person said.  “It is a mark of the vulnerability of this company to a
debt spiral that they would accept the spinoff of even a
minority of their wireline infrastructure with the appointment
of a CDP chairman,” Bienenstock said.  S&P’s one-step  cut  today to BBB-, the lowest investment
grade, puts its rating in line with Moody’s Investors Service’s.
Credit-default swaps insuring Telecom Italia’s debt for five
years jumped as much as 5.4 percent to 269 basis points, the
biggest increase in six weeks, signaling a deterioration in
creditworthiness.  In its statement, S&P said it expects a “protracted”
decline in Telecom Italia’s Ebitda in Italy and an
“insuffiencient” credit cushsion from international
subsidiaries. The outlook is stable, reflecting the carrier’s
“adequate liquidity” and ability to trim debt, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  