-- Electrocomponents Rises in Longest Winning Streak: London Mover
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-05-22T08:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/electrocomponents-rises-in-longest-winning-streak-london-mover.html
Electrocomponents Plc (ECM) , a distributor
of more than 550,000 electronics and maintenance products, rose
for a 13th day, the longest streak ever, as investors bet that
resurgent business in  Europe  and  North America  will continue.  Shares of the seller of products from batteries to
semiconductors have gained about 13 percent since May 2 in the
most sustained jump since they began trading in 1989. The stock
rose as much as 0.4 percent today to 279.5 pence, a two-year
high, and was up 0.3 percent at 9:15 a.m. in  London .  “Electrocomponents has demonstrated good momentum in terms
of top-line growth, especially in the U.S. and Europe,” David Greenall and Andrew Brooke, analysts at RBC Capital, said in an
April 23 report. “The company has emerged from the downturn,”
said the analysts, who raised their  recommendation  to outperform
from sector perform.  Electrocomponents, which sells RS Components and Allied
Electronics items through a catalog and online, had a 2 percent
gain in underlying sales in continental Europe in the fiscal
fourth quarter, a quicker pace than the 1 percent growth for the
full year, it said in March. North American sales were flat,
improving from a 3 percent drop for the year. The Oxford,
England-based supplier is scheduled to report full-year results
tomorrow.  Even so, revenue growth eased in the U.K. in the last
quarter, and Britain will probably account for 42 percent of
Electrocomponents’ full-year profit,  Andy Brown , an analyst at
Panmure Gordon & Co., said in a May 20 note. The U.K. purchasing
managers index for services was at 52.9 in April, indicating
expansion, while the construction index and the PMI
manufacturing gauge were below 50, signalling contraction.  “PMI and industrial data continues to paint a mixed
picture, which forms the basis of our cautious stance,” said
Brown, who recommends selling the shares and has a target price
of 175 pence, the lowest among analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.K. revenue declined in the fourth quarter excluding sales
of the Raspberry Pi. The credit-card sized computer was
developed by a charity that promotes global education in
computer skills.  Of the analysts who report their  recommendations  to
Bloomberg, nine advise holding the shares, five have a sell
recommendation and three recommend buying. Electrocomponents
shares have gained about 17 percent this year, valuing the
company at 1.2 billion pounds ($1.8 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in Madrid at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  