-- Teliasonera Says Turkcell May Call Annual Meeting Within 30 Days
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2013-05-22T12:09:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/teliasonera-says-turkcell-may-call-annual-meeting-within-30-days.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , the biggest
shareholder in  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) , said it expects
the unit’s board to call an annual shareholders meeting in 30
days after the event didn’t convene today as there wasn’t a
quorum, owing to a stakeholders’ dispute.  The other two major partners -- Altimo of Russia,
controlled by billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s  Alfa Group , and
Cukurova Holding AS of Turkey, owned by Turkcell founder Mehmet Emin Karamehmet -- couldn’t agree on the proxy to represent them
at the meeting, so it wasn’t held today, Cecilia Edstrom, a
TeliaSonera spokeswoman, said by phone from  Stockholm . Turkcell
shares fell as much as 5 percent to 11.35 liras in Istanbul.  The meeting today was expected to discuss paying dividends
from 2010, 2011 and 2012 profits, which weren’t distributed as
TeliaSonera and Altimo blocked the payments in an attempt to
force the ouster of Chairman  Colin Williams  from the board,
claiming he hampered Turkcell’s growth by favoring Karamehmet.
The market regulator appointed three independent board members
in March to help resolve the board disputes.  TeliaSonera “will work hard to have the next meeting,”
Edstrom said. “We are disappointed that today’s meeting didn’t
happen because Cukurova and Altimo couldn’t agree on the
proxy.”  The estimated total for three years of unpaid dividends is
about 2.9 billion liras ($1.6 billion), according to an e-mailed
comment by Istanbul-based Tera Brokers.  TeliaSonera, Altimo and Cukurova have been fighting a
three-cornered battle for control of the company for almost a
decade. While TeliaSonera is the largest shareholder with 38
percent, Cukurova has sought to retain control via a complex
ownership structure even after its stake declined to 13.7
percent.  Turkcell shares declined 2.9 percent to 11.60 liras as of
3:02 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  