-- Emerging Stocks Head for Biggest Drop in 10 Months
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-05-23T08:40:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/emerging-stocks-advance-as-consumer-discretionary-shares-rally.html
Emerging-market stocks tumbled the
most in 10 months and currencies depreciated as disappointing
Chinese manufacturing data and speculation the Federal Reserve
will scale back stimulus cut demand for riskier assets.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , the world’s largest
contract maker of chips, slumped the most since June in Taipei.
Cosco Pacific Ltd., the container-terminal arm of China’s
biggest shipping group, retreated 2.1 percent in Hong Kong. OAO
Rosneft,  Russia ’s biggest oil producer, fell 2.2 percent in
Moscow as crude dropped. The Philippine peso and South Korea’s
won weakened at least 1.2 percent against the dollar while the
Turkish lira slid to the lowest in a year.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index lost 2 percent to 1,027.13
at 4:10 p.m. in Hong Kong, poised for the steepest decline since
July 23. The gauge’s 30-day volatility rose to 12, the highest
level in seven months. China’s manufacturing unexpectedly shrank
for the first time in seven months, according to a report today
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics.  Japan  stocks
tumbled the most since the aftermath of the Fukushima disaster
in 2011, leading equities lower.  “Weak data from  China  combined with speculation the Fed
may phase out quantitative easing are causing jitters in the
market,” Paul Joseph Garcia, who helps manage the equivalent of
$18 billion as head of institutional business at BPI Asset
Management Inc., said in Manila. “Investors are taking off some
money on the table, reducing their holdings of risk assets.”  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said yesterday the central
bank could “step down” the pace of asset purchases if the
labor market continues to improve and “we have confidence that
that is going to be sustained.”  Hang Seng  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong tumbled 2.8 percent, the most since April 5.
 Thailand ’s SET Index slumped 2.4 percent while  Taiwan ’s  Taiex
Index  retreated 1.9 percent, the most since April 8. South
Korea’s Kospi index sank 1.2 percent and  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex
retreated 1.5 percent.  Russia’s Micex Index dropped 2.3 percent, heading for the
sharpest loss since Nov. 13. Rosneft tumbled the most since
April 17 as oil fell 1 percent. OAO Gazprom, the world’s biggest
gas producer, lost 2.6 percent in Moscow.  Trading volumes in the Taiex were 75 percent above the 30-day average while volumes for the Shanghai Composite, Sensex and
Jakarta Composite Index were at least 36 percent higher, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The peso fell 1.2 percent while the won slid 1.3 percent to
a five-week low. The lira weakened 0.4 percent against the
dollar.  China Manufacturing  The May preliminary reading for HSBC and Markit’s Chinese
Purchasing Managers’ Index was 49.6, down from April’s final
50.4 level. A reading below 50 indicates contraction. The May
number missed the 50.4 median estimate in a Bloomberg News
analyst survey. The final reading is due on June 3.  Bernanke said a premature withdrawal of stimulus could
endanger the U.S. economic recovery as policy makers debated
tapering the pace of its bond purchase program.  Japan’s Topix Index slumped 6.9 percent, the most since
March 2011, as financial companies plunged amid rising bond
yields.  Gauges of technology shares and industrial companies in the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index  dropped  at least 2.4 percent, the
most among 10 industry groups. Taiwan Semiconductor lost 3.6
percent, its third day of declines. Cosco Pacific fell the most
since April 29.  Daewoo Slides  Daewoo International Corp. (047050)  tumbled 5.7 percent in  Seoul 
after Mirae Asset Securities Co. cut its share-price estimate to
45,000 won from 50,000 won, citing a dim industrial outlook.  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) , India’s biggest drugmaker, fell
8.6 percent in Mumbai after Japanese parent Daiichi Sankyo Co.
said it was pursuing “legal remedies” against former
shareholders for hiding information relating to U.S.
investigations of the company.  PT Media Nusantara Citra (MNCN)  dropped 9.7 percent in Jakarta,
the biggest decline in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index. About
233.5 million shares crossed today at a discount to yesterday’s
close, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The MSCI developing-nations gauge has sank 2.7 percent this
year, compared with a 12 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index of developed-country stocks. The emerging-markets measure
trades at 10.4 times 12-month  projected  profit, compared with
the MSCI World’s 14 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  