-- Merck Insomnia Drug Safe Only in Lower Doses, Panel Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-05-23T20:34:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/merck-insomnia-drug-is-safe-only-in-lower-doses-panel-says-1-.html
Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s experimental insomnia
drug, meant to be a less disruptive alternative to Sanofi’s
Ambien sleeping pill, is safe only at lower doses, U.S.
regulatory advisers said.  Merck is seeking Food and Drug Administration approval to
sell the treatment, suvorexant, in two dose ranges. The lowest
doses of 15 milligrams to 20 milligrams are safe, a panel of
advisers to the FDA voted 13-3 yesterday at a meeting in  Silver
Spring ,  Maryland . The highest doses of 30 milligrams to 40
milligrams aren’t safe, the panel said in an 8-7 vote.  The treatment is designed to turn off wakefulness rather
than subdue the brain into slumber like branded and generic
versions of Ambien and  Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma (4506)  Co.’s Lunesta,
the most widely used insomnia medications. FDA staff said
earlier this week they were concerned about severe residual
daytime side effects of Merck’s drug that could lead to driving
while impaired and suicidal thoughts, especially at high doses.  “There is no evidence the higher doses are more effective
but there is more evidence they’re more dangerous,”  Jason Todd ,
a panel member and neurologist at NorthEast Neurology in
Concord,  North Carolina , said during the meeting.  The advisory panel still determined that the drug does work
at all the doses proposed. The panel voted 12-4 that suvorexant
helps people fall asleep and 16-0 it helps people stay asleep.  Merck rose 1.3 percent to $47.33 at 4 p.m.  New York  time.  Lower Dose  The FDA, which doesn’t have to follow the panel’s
determinations, is expected to make a decision on whether to
approve the drug by the middle of the year, Pamela Eisele, a
spokeswoman for  Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based Merck, said
prior to the meeting. Suvorexant may generate sales of $526
million in 2017 if approved, based on the average of six
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are excited about the potential of suvorexant as a new
and different approach to treating insomnia, a serious condition
that affects up to one-third of the adult population,” Darryle Schoepp, Merck’s head of neuroscience and ophthalmology drug
research, said in an e-mail. The “votes and discussion bring us
one step closer to providing physicians with another option to
help patients struggling with insomnia.”  The panel decided against recommending study on a 10
milligram dose that Merck hadn’t proposed. Advisers said results
from an earlier, smaller trial were enough to convince them
suvorexant is effective at that lower dose.  Drowsy Drivers  Merck had argued patients didn’t derive a benefit from the
10 milligram dose. The FDA could approve the 10 milligram dose
based on the data from the second of what are typically three
phases of trials, Russell Katz, director of the Division of
Neurology Products at the FDA, said during the meeting.  “If it’s an adequate and well-controlled trial, that’s OK
for us,” Katz said.  The Merck drug causes about the same drowsiness as other
approved insomnia drugs. About 20 percent of patients younger
than 65 taking the 20 milligram dose were impaired after the
first night of suvorexant use and about 30 percent were impaired
on the 40 milligram dose after the first night. Patients can’t
be trusted to recognize their own impairment and not drive, FDA
staff said.  The FDA this year said it required  Sanofi (SAN)  and other makers
of insomnia pills containing the ingredient zolpidem to cut by
half the recommended doses for women after the agency found
lingering effects of the drug in the morning.  If the FDA approves Merck’s drug, the company would still
need to wait on the Drug Enforcement Administration to make a
designation on restrictions for distribution based on the
potential for abuse. That process could take four months or
longer, Sable said. Insomnia drugs have historically been
considered a Schedule IV medication, the second least
restrictive of the DEA’s five classifications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  