-- Metro AG Jumps as Morgan Stanley Predicts More Disposals
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-05-22T08:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/metro-ag-jumps-as-morgan-stanley-predicts-more-disposals.html
Metro AG (MEO)  surged the most in more than
18 months after Morgan Stanley recommended buying the stock for
the first time in a decade, citing the prospect of further
disposals as  Germany ’s biggest retailer reorganizes.  Metro jumped as much as 6.2 percent to 26.30 euros, the
biggest intraday gain since Nov. 3, 2011, and was trading up 5.9
percent at 10:31 a.m. in  Frankfurt . Volume was almost double the
three-month daily average. The stock has risen 25 percent this
year to a 13-month high.  Expanding the company’s Cash & Carry wholesale unit to
better serve the hotel and restaurant industry,
“stabilization” at the Media-Saturn electronics chain and
potential asset sales create an “upside” for the stock,
Edouard Aubin, a London-based analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote
in a report to clients today. He increased his  recommendation  on
Dusseldorf-based Metro stock to overweight from equal-weight.  “Metro’s Cash & Carry division is increasingly focused on
the professional customer,” Aubin wrote. “As for Media Markt
Saturn, we see encouraging industry and company developments,”
and “Metro could unlock significant value via a portfolio
optimization process.”  Metro reported an  unexpected  first-quarter operating profit
on May 2 as losses narrowed at the Real hypermarkets unit and
Media-Saturn. The retailer forecasts a decline in earnings for
the nine months from January through September as it invests in
the Cash & Carry business and the economy remains challenging in
southern and eastern  Europe .  Chief Executive Officer Olaf Koch said when he took his
post in early 2012 that he would focus on Cash & Carry and
Media-Saturn while scaling back investments in Kaufhof
department stores and Real grocery outlets. Since then, he has
sold Real stores in eastern Europe to Groupe Auchan SA and the
Makro U.K. wholesale unit to  Booker Group Plc (BOK) , and announced
that Media-Saturn is leaving  China .  The two most profitable sales would involve a partial or
full withdrawal from more than 20 “non-focus countries,” which
Morgan Stanley estimated in an asset value range of 2.5 billion
euros ($3.23 billion) to 3.9 billion euros, and a full stock-market sale or disposal of C&C Russia, valued at 4.6 billion
euros to 8.5 billion euros, Aubin said in his report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  