-- EU Investment Bank Sees $2.1 Billion Penalty of Transaction Tax
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-05-22T14:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/eu-investment-bank-sees-2-1-billion-penalty-of-transaction-tax.html
The  European Investment Bank  says it
would have to absorb as much as 1.65 billion euros ($2.1
billion) in extra costs under proposals for a European Union
financial-transaction tax.  The tax, as proposed, would raise the Luxembourg-based
EIB’s funding costs and make its hedging activities more
expensive, according to an EIB document obtained by  Bloomberg
News . The report says this impact would translate to an increase
of 11 to 32 basis points in pricing on the bank’s loans, which
support cross-border infrastructure projects and financing for
small businesses.  “This would represent a material increase to the average
margin applied to EIB’s clients, at a moment when the EIB Group
is asked by  member states  to foster growth through increased
volumes of lending at competitive terms,” said the document,
which is undated. The EIB wants a blanket exemption for any
trading activity related to it, similar to the  European Central
Bank ’s proposed treatment. An EIB spokesman declined to comment
on the report when contacted today.  European policy makers are increasingly leaning on the bank
to help combat record euro-area unemployment and a second year
of recession. EU leaders meeting in Brussels today are citing
the EIB as one of their main tools for increasing financing for
energy-efficiency projects. ECB President  Mario Draghi  has
invoked the EIB as one avenue for helping unlock credit to small
and medium-sized businesses, whose access to funding has been
severely hampered by the region’s financial crisis. The EIB is
also key to a plan to counter joblessness.  Tax Patchwork  The EU is trying to remedy what it sees as a “patchwork”
of levies and rein in speculative trading it sees as having
exacerbated the financial crisis. The plan would charge a 0.1
percent rate for stock and bond trades and 0.01 percent for
derivatives transactions, with some exemptions for primary-market sales and trades with the ECB.  The Brussels-based European Commission has resisted calls
to narrow the scope of its tax proposal, even when those trades
involve  government bonds  or other official-sector activity. The
commission has estimated that any increase in borrowing costs
would be offset by the income raised.  The EIB letter recommends excluding all transactions
involving sovereign bonds from the tax’s impact. EU debt
managers, in an April 18 analysis, said current plans to tax
secondary-market and derivatives trades involving sovereign
bonds will damage government borrowing markets.  EIB Concerns  An EU working group today was slated to discuss the EIB’s
concerns, according to a May 22 report from Ireland, which holds
the EU’s rotating administrative presidency. The working group
also tackled concerns from participating nations about the tax’s
impact, according to a European Commission report prepared for
the meeting.  EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta aims to create the
transaction tax to take effect as soon as next year. The
proposed levy could be collected worldwide by  France ,  Germany 
and nine other EU nations, including  Belgium , that have so far
signed up, if the effort stays on schedule.  In response to concerns that the tax would damage
repurchase agreement markets, the commission said the plan
“should not dent the attractiveness of government bonds as
compared to the attractiveness of other comparable securities,”
according to the commission report. It said market participants
also could consider pledging securities to central banks as a
way to blunt the tax’s impact.  The commission report said nations could consider making
repos subject to the lower tax rate on derivatives rather than
the rate proposed for stock and bond trades. It recommended
against setting a lower  tax rate  for secondary-market trades on
sovereign debt, saying that would hurt government revenues.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  