-- EU Said to Toughen Creditor-Loss Rules for Bailed-Out Banks
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-05-22T16:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/eu-said-to-toughen-creditor-loss-rules-for-bailed-out-banks.html
The European Union will tighten its
rules on bailouts for banks, setting out tougher requirements
for creditors to face losses if public money is used, according
to two people familiar with the matter.  The European Commission plans to issue revised state-aid
guidance for bank rescues before August, according to the
people, who couldn’t be named because talks on the bailout rules
are private. National officials may discuss the plans as soon as
this week, they said.  The updated guidelines will seek to ensure a minimum level
of so-called burden sharing by shareholders and creditors at
failing banks that receive state aid, the people said. They
won’t require senior creditors to face losses, said another
person familiar with the talks.  EU governments have provided 1.7 trillion euros ($2.2
trillion) of support to their banking systems since the 2008
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to
commission data. Nations in the 27-nation bloc have dealt with
failing banks in a variety of ways. While the Netherlands in
February nationalized SNS Reaal NV without writing down
unsecured senior debt holders, such bank creditors were in the
firing line as part of the euro area’s bailout of Cyprus.  The new guidelines will clarify the basic rules for how
such situations should be tackled, two of the people said. They
will reflect procedures that were used last year when  Spain 
applied for international aid for its banking system, according
to one of the people. In the Spanish case, aid was only allowed
once the nation had agreed on bank restructuring measures with
the commission, which is responsible for checking whether
subsidies distort competition.  The state-aid rules revamp coincides with EU negotiations
on a law that would set out common rules for so-called bail-ins,
or forced losses, on crisis-hit banks’ senior creditors.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for  Joaquin Almunia , the
EU’s competition chief, declined to comment.  The Financial Times reported on the revised state-aid
guidance earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  