-- EU Tackles Tax Evasion as Luxembourg Resists Speedy Pact
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e ,   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-05-22T17:06:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/eu-tackles-tax-evasion-as-luxembourg-resists-speedy-pact.html
EU leaders vowed to investigate
“aggressive” tax planning as Luxembourg continued to object to
speedy action on an updated information-sharing accord.  At a one-day summit in Brussels, the 27-nation bloc sought
to find common ground on hunting down tax dodgers and collecting
revenue to offset the recession. At the same time, they hedged
their bets on a long-delayed update to the EU’s savings tax
accord, which governs how nations share data on earnings from
cross-border accounts.  Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said Luxembourg was
“under pressure” to allow the EU to move ahead. At the same
time, he signaled that his nation won’t go beyond its recent
pledge to ease some of its bank secrecy rules in 2015,
preferring to delay the tax pact until after deals are sealed
with Switzerland and four other countries.  When asked after the summit if Luxembourg was slowing
things down, Juncker quipped: “We are neither British nor
Swiss.” On his way into the summit, he had told reporters that
his nation has “a greater problem” than nations with smaller
financial sectors and must make sure all nations face the same
conditions.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said talks with  Switzerland 
won’t hold up the EU’s decision-making.  Struggling Economy  “We haven’t established any conditionality,” Merkel told
reporters after the summit. Non-EU countries will be “involved
as far as possible. It’s not a matter of us going only so far as
the other countries -- that wasn’t today’s message.”  EU leaders gathered to discuss taxes and energy markets
against the backdrop of a struggling economy and lingering debt
crisis. Conclusions for the meeting sought to acknowledge the
EU’s many efforts to improve conditions in both areas.  “Negotiations will begin as soon as possible” on tax
deals with Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Andorra, San Marino and
Monaco now that finance ministers have signed off on a
negotiating mandate, the summit conclusions said. “In light of
this, and noting the consensus on the scope of the revised
directive on the taxation of savings income, the European
Council called for its adoption before the end of the year.”  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said the meeting focused on
tracking down tax dodgers rather than standardizing tax rates.  “We are not talking about tax harmonization, but about
jointly fighting despicable practices like deliberate tax
evasion,”  Van Rompuy  said.  ‘Special Deals’  The tax talks sidestepped international controversy on
whether big companies like  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  are taking
excessive advantage of cross-border tax loopholes. Irish Prime
Minister  Enda Kenny  said his nation, under scrutiny because of
Apple’s affiliates there, has fair tax laws and is a full
participant in international efforts to combat  tax avoidance .  “We do not do special deals with any individual
companies,” Kenny told reporters. “The European Commission has
not been in touch with me about Apple or about any other
individual company.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  