-- Lew Says He’ll Wait to Decide Whether Lerner Did Anything Wrong
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-05-22T16:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/lew-says-he-ll-wait-to-decide-whether-lerner-did-anything-wrong.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
said today he’ll wait for more information to decide whether IRS
official Lois Lerner acted improperly in the tax agency’s
treatment of Tea Party groups.  At a House Financial Services Committee hearing, Lew
declined to answer a question from Representative  Scott Garrett ,
a New Jersey Republican, about whether he agreed with Lerner’s
assertion today that she has “not done anything wrong.”
Garrett told Lew it was a “yes or no” question.  “Congressman, it’s not a yes or no,” Lew said. “I’m
going to wait to have all the facts.”  The actions of employees who worked for Lerner have led to
a scandal at the IRS that has cost two people their jobs and led
to four congressional investigations and a criminal probe.  Lerner, appearing before the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee, invoked her right not to testify after reading
a statement denying that she had committed any crimes.  “I am very proud of the work that I have done in
government,” she said in a statement to the panel. “I have not
done anything wrong. I have not broken any laws.”  Steven Miller  has resigned as the IRS’s acting
commissioner. President  Barack Obama  said May 16 that he’d
chosen Danny Werfel, the controller of the White House budget
office, to replace Miller as acting IRS commissioner effective
today.  The IRS is a bureau of the Treasury Department. Lew said at
a congressional hearing yesterday that “management of the IRS
is very much the responsibility of the Treasury secretary. The
administration of the tax system has to be within the IRS and
apart from politics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  