-- Fast Says Keystone Denial Would Irritate Canada-U.S. Ties
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-05-22T19:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/fast-says-keystone-denial-would-irritate-canada-ties-with-u-s-.html
 U.S. rejection of  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline would be a “significant irritant”
to the relationship between Canada and its biggest trading
partner, said Canadian Trade MinisterEd Fast.  Fast said that he’s optimistic the project will be approved
if the decision is made based on science and the economic
benefits that it would bring to both countries.  “If the Keystone XL pipeline is turned down, clearly it
would be a significant irritant to the Canada-U.S.
relationship,” Fast said in an interview in Cali,  Colombia .
“That said, we will continue to be each other’s largest trading
partners. There’s no doubt in my mind that the governments of
both countries will continue to find new ways of deepening and
expanding our trade relationship and using that relationship to
drive prosperity in both of our countries.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is weighing whether
the pipeline is in the U.S. national interest amid calls from
environmental groups to kill it. The pipeline would help ease a
glut of Canadian crude that the  Bank of Canada  says is crimping
economic growth, as well as depressing prices for producers and
cutting government revenue.  Fast said Canadian officials have been in touch with U.S.
counterparts to ensure the government doesn’t make its decision
based on “hysteria.”  “We know that environmental politics has played a role in
disseminating misinformation of Keystone XL,” Fast said.  Greenhouse Gases  Environmental group 350.org released a  letter  this month
from academics who say development of the oil sands would leave
“no hope” of keeping global warming at a reasonable level.  Environmentalists say  oil-sands  operations release more
carbon dioxide than most forms of conventional drilling. The
Canadian government  says  the pipeline won’t increase emissions
because the U.S. already imports heavy crude from countries such
as  Venezuela , producing similar levels of  greenhouse gases .  Fast is in Colombia for a meeting of the Pacific Alliance
trade bloc that consists of Mexico, Colombia, Peru and Chile.
Canada, which has free-trade agreements with all four nations,
is an observer to the talks and hasn’t made any decision about
joining, Fast said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Cali, Colombia at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  