-- Boston Bombing-Murder Probe Said to Spur Deadly Face-Off
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y ,   A n n i e   L i n s k e y   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2013-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/fbi-kills-man-in-orlando-with-ties-to-boston-bombing.html
A  Florida  man was shot dead in a
confrontation with law-enforcement officers who were questioning
him about a triple murder two years ago that has been linked to
a Boston Marathon bombing suspect, according to two officials
familiar with the matter.  One of the alleged bombers, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, is also
being investigated in the murders, authorities have said. A 26-year-old ethnic Chechen, Tsarnaev died in a firefight with
police in Watertown, Massachusetts, last month.  Investigators were interviewing Ibragim Todashev, 27, early
yesterday in Orlando about the bombing when the subject turned
to the Sept. 11, 2011, murders of three men in the Boston suburb
of Waltham, according to the law-enforcement officials who asked
not to be identified because the probe is continuing. At that
point, Todashev became irritated and lunged at the officers, the
officials said. Todashev was considered a suspect, they said.  Paul Bresson, a  Federal Bureau of Investigation  spokesman
in  Washington , said the fight was initiated by the man who died.
An FBI agent, “acting on the imminent threat posed by the
individual, responded with deadly force,” Bresson said. The
agent was injured, he said.  Todashev knew Tsarnaev, according to the dead man’s friends
and a law-enforcement official who asked not to be identified
amid a continuing investigation. Tsarnaev is suspected of
planting the bombs that killed three people and injured more
than 260 near the marathon finish line April 15, acting with his
brother, Dzhokhar, 19. The younger Tsarnaev is in custody.  Bombing Probe  FBI agents sought to talk with Todashev in connection with
the bombing, said a person familiar with the matter who asked
not to be identified because of the continuing investigation.
The person didn’t say how the meeting turned to a confession
about the Waltham murders. Todashev wasn’t named as a bombing
suspect, while he hasn’t been ruled out, the person said.  Dzhokhar Tsarnaev has been charged with using and
conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction. The suspect, who
is recovering from wounds received while fleeing arrest, may
face the death penalty if convicted. The bombing was the
highest-profile act of terrorism in the U.S. since the Sept. 11,
2001, attacks in  New York  and outside Washington.  One of the victims in the Waltham murders was Brendan Mess,
25, a sparring partner of Tamerlan Tsarnaev at Wai Kru Mixed
Martial Arts in  Boston . Mess, along with Erik Weissman, 31, and
Raphael Teken, 37, were found in an apartment with their throats
cut and sprinkled with marijuana.  Aborted Theft  NBC News, citing law-enforcement sources it didn’t
identify, reported that the murders began with a drug ripoff
that ended in the killings after Tamerlan Tsarnaev and Todashev
realized the victims would be able to identify them.  Zubeidat Tsarnaeva, the bombing suspect’s mother, said by
telephone from Makhachkala,  Russia  -- near the Chechnya region -
- that she recalled her older son talking about Todashev.  “He said he met this small boy whom he liked,” Tsarnaeva
said. “He said he was also a sportsman. I told him, ‘This good;
now you have someone to do sports together.’”  She said Todashev was, like her family, an ethnic Chechen.
“We Chechens living abroad always try to stick together.”  Tamerlan Tsarnaev spoke with Todashev about a month before
the Boston bombings, said Khusen Taramov, a friend of Todashev,
in an interview aired by WESH-TV in  Orlando . The dead bombing
suspect lived in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and was a boxer.  MMA Fighter  Todashev also participated in Mixed Martial Arts, a contact
sport similar to boxing. It isn’t clear where he trained when he
lived in the Boston area. A man who answered the telephone
yesterday at the Wai Kru gym, where Tamerlan Tsarnaev worked
out, declined to comment.  It is unclear when, or why, Todashev moved to Florida. He
trained for about two months more than a year ago at the Jungle
MMA & Fitness in Orlando, said John Morehouse, the gym’s
manager.  “He was pretty forgettable,” said Morehouse, 24. “He
came in for some evening classes.”  Todashev wasn’t employed in Florida and had recently
received a green card to work in the U.S. He was planning a trip
to Chechnya to see family, Taramov said.  “I know everything about this guy,” the friend said. “He
never had a gun. I know he didn’t do nothing.”  Todashev won a professional fight in July by using the
“submission guillotine choke,” according to a record on the
Mixed Martial Arts website, which said he was fighting out of
 Massachusetts .  Bombing ‘Shock’  Taramov said the Boston bombing came as “a complete
shock” to Todashev.  He said he talked to his friend just before the FBI
interviewed him May 21 and recalled Todashev was worried that
he’d be taken into custody.  “He said, ‘Can you take my mother and father’s number?
Just take the numbers in case something happens and I get locked
up,’” Taramov said.  Yellow police tape hung around a group of three adjoining
condominiums yesterday, including one where Todashev lived, in
the Windhover neighborhood across the street from Universal
Studios Orlando. Dozens of brown and green apartments and
townhouses surround a duck pond and footbridges.  Todashev was quiet and often smoked cigarettes on his back
porch and swam in the community pool, said Renee Jansky, 37, a
neighbor.  Night Owl  “He was a late-night guy,” said Jansky, a bartender whose
porch is about 25 feet from Todashev’s apartment. “He’d stick
to himself.”  She said she’d see him outside in his pajamas when she got
home from work. She said a boxing bag hung from the ceiling of
the first floor of his unit.  Todashev was arrested in Orlando on May 4 after a dispute
over a parking spot at an outlet mall, according to papers filed
with the Orange County Corrections Department. The county
includes Orlando.  A police officer wrote in a report that there was a
“considerable amount of blood on the ground” where the
altercation occurred and that a victim was unconscious.  Todashev told police he “was only fighting to protect his
knee, because he had surgery,” according to court papers.  Todashev was charged with aggravated battery and released
on a $3,500 bond.  He also had been arrested in Massachusetts, according to
the Boston Herald, which reported he was apprehended in Boston
in February 2010 after a car accident and a fight with another
person involved in the crash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Orlando at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  