-- Fernandez Enlists Argentines as CPI Watchdogs After 70% Aid Jump
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2013-05-23T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/fernandez-asks-argentines-to-monitor-prices-after-jump-in-aid.html
Argentina ’s President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner ordered officials and supporters to ensure
that businesses keep prices in check after the government
announced a 70 percent social spending increase ahead of
October’s legislative elections.  Fernandez in a national address yesterday called on
businesses to maintain  prices  as she pledged to increase annual
social program spending to 41.1 billion pesos ($7.8 billion) to
help consumers and fuel growth. The 60-year-old president said
there are “monopolies” in the cement and steel industries who
will have to discuss pricing with the government  “We are going to use political, social and youth groups
throughout the country to watch and take care -- watch prices
and take care of Argentines pockets,” Fernandez said. “We want
to improve social programs and boost consumption and economic
activity.”  Interior Commerce Secretary Guillermo Moreno is in talks
with supermarkets to freeze prices of about 500 goods, Fernandez
said. In February, supermarkets and home supply stores agreed to
a 60-day price freeze that was extended to 120 days.  The social spending plan includes a 35 percent increase in
monthly payments to poor families with children that will
benefit 1.8 million families, Fernandez said last night.  The increase in spending is above what private economists
estimate for inflation as the government seeks to help poor
families maintain purchasing power, said Ramiro Castineira, an
economist at Buenos Aires-based research firm Econometrica.  ‘Effect Disappears’  Those funds will go straight to consumption as those
families spend all they have on basic goods, he said.  “Price accords always work at the beginning but then their
effect disappears,” said Castineira said in a telephone
interview last night. “Inflation is a macroeconomic problem,
not a problem caused by lack of controls.”  Unemployment (ARUERATE)  in  South America ’s second-biggest economy rose
to 7.9 percent in the first quarter, the highest since 2010,
after the economy expanded 1.9 percent in 2012, the slowest pace
since 2009. Private economists put year-on-year inflation at 24
percent, the second-highest rate in  Latin America  after
 Venezuela , while the statistics agency said the annual rate was
10.5 percent in April.  The country’s  budget surplus , excluding interest payments,
narrowed in February to 204 million pesos from 700 million pesos
a year earlier. Last year, the government had a deficit equal to
2.4 percent of gross domestic product, the worst shortfall since
the 3.3 percent gap posted in 2001.  Fernandez, whose Victory Front coalition controls both
chambers of Congress, faces mid-term elections in October, when
half of the lower-house and a third of the Senate will be
elected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  