-- Firm Leaders Survey, Kramer Levin: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-05-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/firm-leaders-survey-kramer-levin-business-of-law.html
Law firm leaders are failing to make
the changes necessary to effectively manage their enterprises
under today’s conditions, according to a new survey by
consultant Altman Weil.  While firm managers recognize shifts in the business of
law, including pricing pressures prompting a need to deliver
legal services more efficiently, they’re too slow to take
action, according to the survey of 238 leaders.  “Most firms appear to be reacting to external forces and
making incremental changes within the framework of the existing
business model, rather than pursuing opportunities to
meaningfully differentiate their firms in the eyes of clients,”
the law firm consultant said in an analysis of the survey.  Of those surveyed, 96 percent said the need for greater
efficiency is a permanent change in the law firm landscape. Just
45 percent reported having made changes to provide services with
enhanced efficiency.  For the “Law Firms in Transition” survey, published for
the fifth year, 37 percent of the respondents came from the
biggest 250 U.S. law firms. All the firms surveyed have more
than 50 lawyers.  While more than 80 percent of the firm leaders said price
competition and non-hourly billing are permanent changes, only
29 percent have changed their strategic approach to pricing.
Firms have been offering clients discounts from 21 percent to as
much as 40 percent to deal with price pressures.  “Discounting is not a strategy,” Tom Clay, an Altman Weil
principal and author of the survey, said in a statement. “In
fact, it undermines the idea of value and it’s a margin
killer.”  The survey also indicated that firm leaders’ priorities
aren’t in the right place. They said increasing revenue was the
greatest challenge they face in the next two years. Also at the
top of the list was generating new business, firm growth and
profitability. Delivering value to clients was No. 8 on the list
while improving efficiency was ranked 11th.  “This is very troubling,” Clay said in the statement.
“Law firms that do not put client needs at the top of their
priority lists and align themselves with those needs
misunderstand what are driving the forces of change in the legal
market in 2013.”  The survey recommends that firm leaders better educate
partners in order to affect change, align the firm’s interests
with clients’ and adhere to long-term strategic changes rather
than quick fixes.  Kramer Levin Names Spilko Co-Chair of Corporate Practice  Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP named Howard T. Spilko
co-chairman of the corporate practice alongside Thomas D. Balliett and Scott S. Rosenblum. The three will lead the firm’s
70-lawyer corporate group together.  Spilko has experience in domestic and cross-border mergers
and acquisitions, joint ventures and alliances, and general
corporate matters. He has also been a member of the firm’s
executive committee. Spilko’s clients include BlackRock Inc. and
American International Group Inc. on M&A and joint venture
matters and Perella Weinberg Partners LP on investment matters,
according to his firm biography.  “Howard is an exceptional adviser to his clients on a wide
range of corporate matters and an established leader at the
firm,” Paul Pearlman, Kramer Levin’s managing partner, said in
a statement. “He’s a perfect fit to join the other two co-chairmen in providing creative, strategic guidance that will
ensure the continued success of our corporate group.”  Kramer Levin has lawyers at offices in New York, Silicon
Valley and Paris.  Moves  King & Spalding Recruits MacVay to Start London Practice  King & Spalding LLP established a London trade practice
with the addition of partner Iain MacVay, previously of Bird &
Bird LLP, where he was head of international trade and customs
for Brussels and London.  MacVay has advised on international trade matters for more
than two decades. He has experience in challenging tax and
regulatory barriers under World Trade Organization rules and
other international trade agreements, the firm said in a
statement. He also represents clients in relation to intra-European Union trade matters.  MacVay has been particularly active in representing the
alcoholic beverages, pharmaceutical and petrochemical industries
before the WTO, EU institutions and trade authorities, according
to King & Spalding.  “Iain is a leading expert on WTO dispute settlement,
 market access  and regulatory matters and he provides further
reach and depth to our international trade group,” Stephen Orava, leader of King & Spalding’s international trade practice
group, said in a statement. “His experience of U.K. and
European trade matters will bring new resources to our global
practice and create an important axis with our Washington, D.C.,
and and Geneva offices.”  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers at 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Derivatives Lawyer Matthew Kluchenek Joins Baker & McKenzie  Matthew Kluchenek joined Baker & McKenzie LLP in Chicago as
a partner and will lead the firm’s North American derivatives
practice. He was previously a partner at Schiff Hardin LLP.  Kluchenek advises proprietary traders, financial
institutions,  hedge funds , commodity pools, trading advisers,
CFTC registrants, end-users, exchanges and other clients on the
regulation of derivatives under the Commodity Exchange Act and
the CFTC’s rules, as well as the regulation of securities under
federal securities laws, the firms said in a statement.  “As our clients utilize derivatives to hedge against
 exchange rate ,  interest rate , commodity price or other risks,
they are looking for counsel with capabilities in the U.S. and
the U.K. to make sure these instruments are optimally designed
and executed,”  David Hackett , chairman of the North American
banking, finance and major projects practice, said in a
statement. “Matt adds depth to our U.S. team, and I know
clients will value his insight and experience.”  Baker & McKenzie has more than 4,000 lawyers at 72 offices
in 45 countries.  Mayer Brown Adds to Banking and Finance Practice in Charlotte  Mayer Brown LLP said Lawrence V. Berkovich joined the firm
in Charlotte,  North Carolina , as a partner in the banking and
finance practice. Previously, he was a counsel with Dechert LLP.  Berkovich concentrates his practice on complex structured
finance transactions, with an emphasis on broadly syndicated and
middle-market collateralized loan obligations, the firm said in
a statement. Berkovich has experience with derivative products;
revolving, delayed draw and principal-protected tranches; and
federal securities laws.  Mayer Brown has lawyers at offices in the Americas, Asia
and Europe.  Judge Paul J. Vichness Joins Mandelbaum Salsburg  Former Essex County Business Court Judge Paul J. Vichness
joined Mandelbaum Salsburg Lazris & Discenza PC’s alternate
dispute resolution department. He was also the conflict judge
for general equity at the court.  Vichness will focus his practice on mediation arbitration
and be a discovery master in civil matters, with an emphasis on
commercial and complex cases, the firm said. He was appointed to
the Superior Court in 1995.  Mandelbaum Salsburg has lawyers at six offices in New York,
New Jersey and Florida.  Litigation  Gupta Challenges Insider Conviction and U.S. Wiretaps  Former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta  asked
a federal appeals court to overturn his insider-trading
conviction, with his lawyer arguing that prosecutors shouldn’t
have been allowed at his  jury trial  to use secretly wiretapped
calls in which he wasn’t a participant.  Defense lawyer  Seth Waxman , of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale
and Dorr LLP, also told a panel of three judges on the  U.S.
Court of Appeals  in New York that the defense was hindered by
not being able to put on testimony from the defendant’s daughter
about his state of mind before the alleged 2008 crimes. Waxman
said Gupta was prevented from presenting evidence that he’d been
swindled by his friend and business partner, fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , to whom he was accused of giving illegal tips.  Gupta, his wife and four daughters all attended yesterday’s
hourlong hearing.  Three days before Gupta allegedly provided inside
information about Goldman Sachs to Rajaratnam, the Galleon Group
LLC co-founder, in September 2008, Gupta told his daughter
Geetanjali he had discovered that Rajaratnam secretly withdrew
$25 million from a fund which both men had invested in, Waxman
said. The lawyer told the appeals court that conversation should
have been presented as evidence.  “Mr. Gupta told her that he’d come to believe that Mr.
Rajaratnam had cheated him out of millions of dollars,” said
Waxman, who was U.S. Solicitor General under President  Bill Clinton .  “That testimony could have powerfully refuted the
government’s theory on motive and timing,” Waxman said, adding
that it could have provided “an innocent explanation for the
telephone calls in question.”  Gupta, 64, who was a managing partner at McKinsey & Co.,
and a director at  Procter & Gamble Co ., was convicted in June of
one count of conspiracy and three counts of  securities fraud . He
was accused of passing illegal information about New York-based
Goldman Sachs to Rajaratnam.  Waxman and defense lawyer Gary Naftalis said jurors got a
“distorted picture” in which Rajaratnam’s statements to
Galleon employees couldn’t be refuted by Gupta. They called
Rajaratnam’s comments on the wiretaps “the self-serving hearsay
of a known fabulist beyond Gupta’s powers to cross-examine.”  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 12-4448, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  News  Obama Names 10 to Commission for Improving Election Process  Two veteran election lawyers, Bob Bauer of Perkins Coie LLP
and Ben Ginsberg of Patton Boggs LLP, were named co-chairmen of
the Presidential Commission on Election Administration,
according to a White House statement.  Bauer was counsel to President Obama’s re-election
committee. Ginsberg was campaign counsel to Republican
presidential nominee Mitt Romney.  Commission members also include Joe Echevarria, Deloitte
LLP’s chief executive officer. Along with Echevarria, the
members Obama appointed yesterday include Brian Britton, a vice
president of global park operations for Walt Disney Co.; former
Kentucky Secretary of State Trey Grayson, who lost the 2010
Republican Senate primary to Rand Paul and is now director of
the politics institute at Harvard University’s Kennedy School;
Larry Lomax, a county registrar in Nevada, home state of Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid ; and Christopher Thomas, director of
elections in Michigan and a former Federal Election Commission
official.  The other members are Michele Coleman Mayes, vice president
and general counsel for the New York Public Library and a former
assistant U.S. attorney; Ann McGeehan, assistant general counsel
of the Texas County and District Retirement System and former
director of elections in the Texas Secretary of State’s office;
and Tammy Patrick, federal compliance officer for the Maricopa
County, Arizona, Elections Department.  Obama formed the commission in March after saying in his
 State of the Union  he would look for ways to shorten lines,
improve election efficiency and provide better access at polls.  Video  Crime Novelist Wins $51 Million From Accounting Firm  Joan Lukey, partner at Ropes & Gray LLP, talks with
Bloomberg Law’s Spencer Mazyck about her successful
representation of best-selling crime writer Patricia Cornwell in
a highly publicized lawsuit accusing the author’s accounting and
business management firm Anchin, Block & Anchin LLP of
mismanaging her finances.  This is a Bloomberg podcast. To download, watch or listen
to this report now, click here.  Audio  Sullivan & Cromwell’s Aquila Says Tech ‘Hot’ for M&A  Frank Aquila , a partner at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP,
discusses Yahoo! Inc. buying blogging network Tumblr Inc. for
about $1.1 billion. Aquila talks with Bloomberg’s Pimm Fox and
 Carol Massar  on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “Taking Stock.”  This is a Bloomberg podcast. Click here for more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 