-- FirstRand Names Celliers CEO of Retail Bank as Jordaan Exits
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2013-05-22T15:33:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/firstrand-says-michael-jordaan-will-step-down-as-ceo-of-fnb.html
FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) , South Africa’s
second-largest bank, said Jacques Celliers will replace Michael Jordaan as chief executive officer of its consumer-banking unit
at the end of this year.  FirstRand shares declined after the Johannesburg-based
company appointed Celliers, who is CEO of First National Bank’s
Business Banking and oversees the lender’s expansion into  India .
Celliers, 41, who has been with the company for 12 years,
previously ran FNB’s credit card and retail foreign-exchange
businesses, the bank said in a statement today.  FNB, which has expanded into the continent beyond South
Africa, contributed more than half of FirstRand’s  profit  in the
six months through December with a return on equity of 36
percent. FirstRand undertook a “rigorous” selection process
before choosing Celliers after Jordaan indicated his intention
to step down in 2010, said CEO Sizwe Nxasana.  “People don’t know him as well as Michael,” Patrice Rassou, head of equities at Sanlam Investment Management in Cape
Town, said in an e-mailed response to questions. “The share
price reaction is more testimony to Michael’s stardom and
excellent track record than anything bad about Jacques.”  FirstRand fell 1.7 percent to 31.11 rand in Johannesburg,
the biggest decline among South Africa’s four largest banks.  Innovative Thinking  “Celliers has demonstrated a unique ability to bring
innovative thinking to both the strategic opportunities and
operational challenges of retail and commercial banking,”
FirstRand said in the statement.  No significant change of strategy is envisaged in plans
being drawn up now, said Jordaan, adding that FNB cut back on
lending in time to offset tougher economic conditions that are
making it harder for consumers to repay loans.  “From a strategy perspective, we’re having such good
growth that the challenge is to maintain that growth,” Celliers
told reporters in Johannesburg today.  Jordaan is stepping down after 10 years as CEO to spend
more time with his family on their  wine farm  near Cape Town.  “Family, travel and entrepreneurship based on innovation”
are part of the future plans, Jordaan said in an e-mailed
response to questions. He may become a non-executive director of
FirstRand, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  