-- Fisher Says Fed Can Begin to Slow Mortgage Security Purchases
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-05-22T19:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/fisher-says-fed-can-begin-to-slow-mortgage-security-purchases.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
President Richard Fisher said the U.S. economy is on better
footing and the central bank can begin to taper part of the
program that allowed it to recover.  “The question now is: do we now dial that speed of
purchases of $85 billion a month, back,” or do we increase it,
Fisher said today at a community forum in Nacogdoches,  Texas .
“The answer to that question depends on the state of the
economy. My personal view is that housing has recovered
sufficiently so that we can turn down the rate of purchase of
mortgage-backed securities.”  Fisher, who doesn’t vote on policy again until 2014, has
been among the most vocal supporters of phasing out the Fed’s
$40 billion monthly mortgage-backed securities purchases, saying
it risks disrupting the market. He said today that the Fed
shouldn’t go “cold turkey” and stop the purchases altogether.  “We’re coming out of a massive shock,” Fisher said. “The
patient made it through the ER, barely.”  “Now, the question is getting off the table and starting
to walk and then- when he will be able to run,” he said. “I
don’t think he will be able to run unless he has an incentive to
do so.”  The economy will probably be expanding at a 2.5 percent
pace at the end of the year, Fisher said.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said today that the economy
remains hampered by high unemployment and federal government
budget cuts, and reducing asset purchases too soon would
endanger the recovery.  Fed’s Bernanke  “A premature tightening of monetary policy could lead
interest rates to rise temporarily but would also carry a
substantial risk of slowing or ending the economic recovery and
causing inflation to fall further,” Bernanke said today in
testimony to the Joint Economic Committee of Congress in
Washington. Monetary policy is providing “significant
benefits,” he said.  Fed officials are divided on what to do with their so-called quantitative easing program. Federal Reserve Bank of  New
York  President William C. Dudley said yesterday he has not
decided whether the Fed’s next move should be to enlarge or
shrink it.  Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser called for
shrinking purchases at the Fed’s next meeting. By contrast,
 Boston ’s  Eric Rosengren  said low inflation and high unemployment
suggest there may be a need for even more stimulus, not less.
St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said the central bank
should continue its bond buying because it’s the best available
option for policy makers to boost growth that is slower than
expected.  FOMC Meeting  The Federal Open Market Committee said May 1 it will keep
up its monthly purchases of mortgage bonds and Treasuries, and
is ready to increase or reduce the pace in response to changes
in the outlook for inflation and the labor market.  Quantitative easing helped boost stocks and has pushed
mortgage rates close to record lows, fueling housing demand.  The unemployment  rate  was 7.5 percent in April, and Fed
policy makers’ preferred inflation measure, the personal
consumption expenditures price index, rose 1 percent for the
year ended in March, below their 2 percent goal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  