-- Flagstar Said to Weigh Sale of Mortgage-Servicing Rights
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M o n k s   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-05-22T20:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/flagstar-bancorp-said-to-weigh-sale-of-mortgage-servicing-rights.html
Flagstar Bancorp Inc. (FBC) , the  Michigan 
lender rescued by MatlinPatterson Global Advisers LLC in 2009,
is considering a sale of the collection rights on more than $70
billion in mortgages, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Flagstar interviewed banks in recent weeks to manage the
sale of its mortgage-servicing rights because of new rules that 
make them costlier to own, said the people, who asked not to be 
identified because the matter is private. The talks were 
preliminary and Flagstar hasn’t hired an adviser, one person 
said.  The holders of mortgage-servicing rights collect fees for
managing loans on behalf of investors who own them. Servicing
involves sending out bills, performing collections and handling
the costly foreclosure process if the borrowers don’t pay.  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , Bank of America Corp. and other lenders have been
selling servicing rights because proposed capital rules would
classify them as riskier assets that require more equity to
cover potential losses. Buyers have included firms, such as
 Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN) , that specialize in servicing and aren’t
subject to the same rules as banks.  Susan Cherry-Bergesen, a spokeswoman for Flagstar, declined
to comment. Representatives for MatlinPatterson didn’t respond
to a request for comment.  Flagstar, based in Troy, Michigan, had servicing rights
valued at $727 million on mortgages with an unpaid principal
balance of $73.9 billion at the end of March, according to a
statement last month. It has regularly sold batches of servicing
rights in recent years as part of its business plan, according
to its annual report.  Wells, Ocwen  Wells Fargo, the nation’s biggest home lender, sold
servicing rights to $12.2 billion of reverse mortgages to  Walter
Investment Management Corp. (WAC) , according to a statement last
month.  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)  said in January it
would acquire $215 billion in residential mortgage servicing
rights from Bank of America for about $1.3 billion. In March,
Ally Financial Inc. agreed to sell agency mortgage-servicing
rights to Ocwen Financial for about $585 million.  Flagstar increased less than 1 percent to $13.36 at the
close in New York, after climbing as much as 5.6 percent.  Last year Flagstar posted its first annual  profit  since
2006, following $1.33 billion in losses spurred by the mortgage
crisis. MatlinPatterson, based in New York, has invested at
least $1 billion in the company since 2009, according to
regulatory filings. It held about 64 percent of Flagstar as of
March 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, valuing its
stake at more than $470 million based on yesterday’s close.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Monks in  New York  at 
 mmonks1@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  