-- Ford Adding 200,000 to Capacity as Fusion, F-Series Gain
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-05-22T20:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/ford-adding-200-000-to-capacity-as-fusion-f-series-gain.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , gaining more U.S.
market share than any other automaker this year, will add
capacity to build 200,000 more vehicles annually in  North
America  on demand for F-Series pickups and Fusion sedans.  Most of its North American assembly plants also will be
idled for one week this summer instead of two, increasing
production by about 40,000 cars and trucks, the Dearborn,
Michigan-based company said in a statement today.  “The sales and marketing guys are obviously very
confident, because they’ve asked for additional capacity, and
we’re providing it,” Jim Tetreault, vice president of North
America manufacturing, said in a telephone interview. “All of
our products are performing quite strongly right now.”  The second-largest U.S. automaker is expanding again after
adding 400,000 units of North American capacity last year. This
means Ford will have added about 600,000 units of capacity over
two years, or about 20 percent, to bring its total capacity to
approximately 3.4 million. That’s a reversal from 2009, when
Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  slashed output to a 27-year
low of 1.86 million amid the U.S. market’s downturn, helping
Ford return to profit by better matching production to demand.  Now the company is outpacing competitors as the industry
rebounds. Ford has gained 0.8 percentage point of U.S. market
share through April, according to Autodata Corp. Larger rival
 General Motors Co. (GM)  was second with a 0.5-point increase.  Ford’s North American capacity, which was 4.2 million in
2004, was 3.2 million last year, according to a  study  by the  Ann
Arbor , Michigan-based Center for Automotive Research.  Share Sweep  Ford is growing along with the other traditional U.S.
automakers as they offer their most competitive lineups in a
generation. Ford, GM and Fiat SpA-controlled Chrysler Group LLC
reported better-than-projected  U.S. sales increases  for April,
building on their first sweep of first-quarter market-share
gains in two decades. GM’s stock last week rose to its highest
level in two years, again topping the $33 a share price of its
initial public offering, and Ford topped $15 a share for the
first time in almost two years.  Chrysler said today that three of its assembly plants and
all except one of its engine, transmission and stamping
factories will  skip summer shutdown  this year. The assembly
plants in Michigan and  Ohio  build Dodge Durango and Jeep Grand
Cherokee and Wrangler sport-utility vehicles, as well as the SRT
Viper sports car, according to the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
company’s  website .  New Products  Since its 2009 bankruptcy, GM hasn’t had a formal summer
shutdown,  Mark Reuss , president of the company’s North American
operations, told reporters this week at the company’s
headquarters in  Detroit . GM is bringing out about 20 new
vehicles this year in the U.S., including a redesigned Chevrolet
Silverado pickup and Impala sedan.  Automakers may build 15.9 million vehicles in North America
this year, up from 8.5 million  in 2009 , according to researcher
LMC Automotive. The industry contributed 14 percent of the 2.1
percent average rate of growth for gross domestic product in the
recovery that began in the third quarter of 2009 through last
year, according to Commerce Department data.  Ford’s sales of cars and light trucks rose 16 percent in
the year’s first four months to 808,800, boosting its market
share to 16.3 percent, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata.  Hiring Workers  Ford plans to add almost 3,500 hourly workers in the U.S.
this year, and all of those will be new hires at an entry-level
wage, Tetreault said. The  United Auto Workers  union has agreed
to a two-tier wage structure through 2015, extending an
arrangement that started in 2007.  The UAW’s 2011 contract with Ford called for new workers to
start at $15.78 an hour, compared to about $28 for senior
employees, with the entry wage rising to $19.28 by 2015.  “Our cost of labor compared to where we were in 2007 has
come down substantially,” Tetreault said. “That was very
important to our strategy going forward as we restructured the
company. It makes us more competitive.”  Ford said on May 2 that it will hire a third crew at its
Claycomo, Missouri, plant to boost F-150 output starting in the
third quarter, after F-Series U.S. sales rose 19 percent through
April. Ford is adding more than 2,000 workers at the factory for
the expanded production of its most profitable model line and to
begin building the Transit commercial van in mid-2014.  F-Series Sales  F-Series pickups have led sales of U.S. full-size trucks
the last 36 years and have been the country’s best-selling
vehicle of any type for more than three decades. Ford plans to
make more pickups to keep up with demand after 21 straight
months of sales increases. Deliveries for the truck line are up
19 percent through April.  Ford also is adding a second shift of 1,200 workers to its
Mustang assembly plant in Flat Rock, Michigan, to start building
Fusions there in the third quarter.  “The Fusion is a perfect example” of the viability of
American manufacturing, Tetreault said. “We’re building a car
that we build in  Mexico  in Michigan, and it will be
competitive.”  The rest of the 200,000-unit annual increase in capacity
will come from the Chicago assembly plant that makes Explorer
sport-utility vehicles.  Fusion’s Gains  The Fusion, heralded for its luxury-like looks, is Ford’s
best shot at the sedan sales crown since the 1990s heyday of its
Taurus, the last U.S. model in the segment to top  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s Camry and Honda Motor Co.’s Accord.  The Ford Fusion sedan posted record April sales after
reporting its highest number for any month in March. The
Fusion’s 25 percent gain through April compares with a decline
of 6.8 percent for Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota’s Camry and
an increase of 26 percent for Tokyo-based Honda’s Accord.  To help Ford maintain its sales pace, 21 factories,
including six assembly plants, will take a one-week summer
shutdown this year, the company said today. Automakers typically
take two weeks of mid-year downtime to prepare to build vehicles
for the next model year.  Ford’s North American operations earned $2.4 billion in
the year’s first three months, the division’s best quarter
ever, after setting  annual records  of $8.34 billion with a
10.4 percent profit margin last year.  Ford rose 0.1 percent to $14.97 at the close in  New York .
The shares have soared 47 percent in the last 12 months, while
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 26 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  