-- Forint Gains to 3-Month High as Goldman Ends Sell Recommendation
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-05-22T15:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/forint-gains-to-3-month-high-as-goldman-ends-sell-recommendation.html
The forint rose to the strongest in
three months, spurring Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to close its
trade recommendation to sell  Hungary ’s currency against the euro
at a loss after the economy emerged from recession.  The forint appreciated as much as 0.6 percent and traded
0.1 percent stronger at 289.21 per euro by 5:04 p.m. in
Budapest, the seventh day of advances and extending its gains in
the second quarter to 5.2 percent, the best performance among 31
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Goldman said on April 18
that the forint may weaken to 310 per euro, recommending that
investors close the trade if the  exchange rate  strengthens past
the 290 level.  The economy expanded 0.7 percent in the first quarter from
the last three months of 2012, the first quarterly growth in
more than a year, the  Central Statistical Office  said on May 15.
The expansion in output also supported Prime Minister  Viktor
Orban ’s efforts to meet EU budget targets and exit the bloc’s
excessive-deficit procedure this year, which would avert the
threat of cuts in development aid.  “We clearly underestimated the degree of risk premium for
weaker economic outcomes already embedded in the currency,”
Goldman analysts including  Thomas Stolper  in  London  wrote in a
research report dated yesterday.  ‘Positive Catalysts’  The “strong GDP print” and a “smooth outcome in the
ongoing budget negotiations with the EU,” emerged as “positive
catalysts” for the forint as the extra yield on Hungarian debt
over U.S. treasuries declines, the analysts said.  Yields on Hungary’s benchmark 10-year forint bonds were
little changed at 5.06 percent today after reaching a record-low
4.93 percent last week. Yields on U.S. Treasuries of the same
maturity rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to
1.97 percent. Hungary’s central bank cut its benchmark rate for
a ninth month to a record 4.75 percent on April 23.  Goldman said last month that the forint would weaken on the
narrowing rate premium and as Hungary’s policy makers tolerate a
weaker forint level.  “Our broader fundamental view has not changed, but having
just hit our recommended stop of 290, we recommend closing the
position,” the Goldman analysts said. The trade incurred a
“potential 2.86 percent loss including negative carry of about
32 basis points in total,” the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  