-- Fracking Role for Environmental Defense Fund Splits Green Groups
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-05-22T21:47:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/fracking-role-for-environmental-defense-fund-splits-green-groups.html
A coalition of 67 grassroots groups
criticized the Environmental Defense Fund for its ties to
natural gas drillers in setting voluntary standards for
hydraulic fracturing, a process opposed by many green advocates.  The activist groups, many in communities where natural gas
production is booming or in  New York  where it could start soon,
said EDF is offering “greenwashing” for companies such as
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  by joining them on a set of standards for
fracking.  “There is a better way to protect the public -- it’s
called regulation,” according to a letter prepared for 67
groups by the Civil Society Institute and Earthworks and sent to
EDF President  Fred Krupp  today. “These are fossil fuels, and
their extraction and consumption will inevitably degrade our
environment and contribute to  climate change .”  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, in which water,
chemicals and sand are pumped underground to break apart rock
and free trapped natural gas or oil, along with horizontal
drilling has spurred a boom in production in states such as
 Pennsylvania , Ohio and  Colorado . Fracking’s effect on the
environment has been mixed.  Natural gas releases half the carbon dioxide as coal when
burned to generate electricity, and its increased use has led to
a fall in U.S. greenhouse-gas emissions. At the same time, many
rural residents near fracking operations complain of
contaminated groundwater, fouled air, clogged roads with truck
traffic and round-the-clock noise during the fracking process.  Protections Lacking  “What we’re feeling is the lack of any protections,”
Vivian Stockman, project coordinator of the Ohio Valley
Environmental Coalition, said today on a conference call. She
said West Virginia residents fear the same fouling of the land
they experienced from coal mining, among the state’s biggest
industries.  Environmental Defense Fund , a New York-based group that
helped organize the coalition of businesses and
environmentalists that failed to get cap-and-trade legislation
through Congress in 2009 and 2010, said it supports the same
kind of regulation as many of the grassroots groups, and is
pushing for that in many states, said  Eric Pooley , an EDF vice
president. The voluntary effort in Pennsylvania, which was
unveiled in March, is a way to help encourage further regulation
by expanding the use of best practices, he said.  ‘Toe-to-Toe’  In many states, “we’ve been fighting hard, going toe-to-toe with industry lobbyists in favor of strong regulations and
compliance,” Pooley said in an interview. “We’ve never said
that voluntary is the end of the story. Where we differ is we
think voluntary is a step in the right direction.”  The Center for Sustainable Shale Development, which was
formed in March, will provide independent evaluations of gas
producers that join the effort. The center’s standards will
limit flaring, encourage maximum water recycling and reduce the
toxicity of the fracking fluid.  Domestic production of natural gas has boosted the  U.S.
economy  by lowering the cost of the fuel used in manufacturing.
The Marcellus Shale, which runs along the Appalachian Mountains
from New York to Virginia, is the nation’s largest-producing gas
field, according to energy company  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  