-- Freeport Reviews Safety as Copper Rallies Amid Mine Suspension
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-05-22T08:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/freeport-reviews-safety-as-copper-rallies-amid-mine-suspension.html
Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) 
began a safety review at its halted Grasberg operation, the
world’s second-largest copper mine, amid supply concerns that
are boosting prices.  The mine, halted since a tunnel collapsed May 14, usually
produces 220,000 metric tons of ore a day, Rozik B. Soetjipto,
president director of local unit PT Freeport  Indonesia , told
reporters today in Jakarta. The company doesn’t know when output
can resume, he said. The lost production would amount to about
680 tons of copper a day, based on calculations by Bloomberg
using figures from Freeport’s 2012  annual report .  The suspension comes after a landslide last month at  Rio
Tinto  Group’s Bingham Canyon copper mine in  Utah  forced
operations to halt. Copper in  London  reached a two-week high
today, while smelters in  Japan  said they may seek alternative
supplies to Grasberg if the halt extends.  “The longer it goes on the greater the impact will be,”
 Peter Richardson , a Melbourne-based analyst at Morgan Stanley,
said in a telephone interview. “The market was skeptical that
the mine would remain closed as a result of the incident, but
increasingly it looks as though that indeed is the case.”  Indonesia said yesterday the mine will be suspended until
after an investigation into the accident is completed and
ordered a review of all mining operations in the country. The
cause of the accident isn’t known, Energy Minister Jero Wacik
said today in Jakarta. Phoenix, Arizona-based Freeport said
today it is review all its underground mining.  Reviewing Safety  Of the 38 workers in a classroom at an underground training
facility when the roof collapsed on May 14, 10 were rescued,
according to Freeport Indonesia. The death toll of 28 compares
with 31 from a blast at a  coal mine  in Indonesia’s West Sumatra
province in June 2009.  “We are now focusing on reviewing safety throughout our
underground operations,” Freeport Chief Executive Officer
Richard Adkerson said in Jakarta today. “We are in the process
of assembling an outside investigation team comprised of
Indonesian and international experts in underground mining and
geotechnical science.”  A government team has started an investigation into the
accident, studying geological data, structure and maps, Thamrin
Sihite, director general of coal and minerals at the Energy and
Mineral Resources Ministry, said yesterday in Jakarta.  The mine is located in Papua province, about 3,120
kilometers (1,940 miles) east of Jakarta.  Japanese Smelters  Japanese smelters that process copper concentrate from
Grasberg including Mitsubishi Materials Corp. haven’t had
official notification on any interruption to supplies, an
industry group said today.  “There’s been no official announcement from Freeport,”
Hiroshi Yao, chairman of the Japan Mining Industry Association
and president of Mitsubishi Materials’s president, told
reporters in  Tokyo . “If the operation halt lasts longer, each
Japanese smelter may seek raw material from other supply
sources.”  Freeport produced 315,000 metric tons of recoverable copper
in Indonesia last year, according to its annual report. Global
mine production in 2012 was 16.7 million tons, the International
Copper Study Group said May 1. BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Escondida
mine in  Chile  is the world’s largest  copper mine .  The copper market “will be tighter than last year’’ as
Freeport’s halt exacerbates supply disruptions globally, Andrew Michelmore, Chief Executive Officer of MMG Ltd., the listed unit
of  China ’s biggest state-owned metals trader, said today in an
interview in  Hong Kong .  ‘Close to Balanced’  “It will be very close to balanced,” Michelmore said.
“We’ve had physical hiccups on the supply side and I think this
again works against people who say that there’s going to be an
oversupply of copper.”  Rio Tinto, the world’s second-biggest mining company, said
April 16 the wall slide at its copper mine in Utah may cut full-year refined output by about 100,000 tons, reducing its previous
forecast by about one third. It could wipe out a forecast
surplus for the metal this year,  Tom Price , a Sydney-based
analyst at UBS AG, said last month.  Copper for delivery in three months on the London Metal
Exchange gained 1.4 percent to $7,474.25 a Ton as of 3:36 p.m.
in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  