-- Freeport Declares Day of Mourning After Indonesia Mine Accident
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-05-22T03:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/freeport-declares-day-of-mourning-after-indonesia-mine-accident.html
The local unit of  Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)  declared a day of mourning after an accident
at the Grasberg complex in Indonesia killed 28, prompting the
nation to order a review of all mining operations.  Memorial services will be held today at its Jakarta office
and site at Papua, PT Freeport Indonesia said today in an e-mailed statement. Work at the world’s second-largest copper mine
will remain suspended until after an investigation is concluded,
the government said yesterday.  “We continue to grieve with the families even as we close
this grim chapter,” Freeport Indonesia President Director Rozik B. Soetjipto said in the statement. “There is still much to do
for us to provide the best care and support for the injured and
the families of the bereaved.”  Copper in  London  traded near a two-week high yesterday
after the accident triggered supply concerns for the metal used
in pipes and wires. Phoenix, Arizona-based Freeport gets about
19 percent of its copper production from its Indonesian mines
and 90 percent of its gold output.  Freeport Indonesia yesterday had no update on shipments
from the mine, said Daisy Primayanti, vice president of
corporate communications at the local unit. The company was
still shipping material produced from the mine as of May 17, the
local unit said last week.  Press Conference  President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono ordered related
ministries to review safety at all mines in Indonesia, Thamrin Sihite, director general of coal and minerals at the Energy and
Mineral Resources Ministry, said yesterday. He said the accident
at Freeport is “one of the worst accidents in  Indonesia .”  The death toll of 28 compares with 31 from a blast at a
coal mine in Indonesia’s West Sumatra province in June 2009. Of
the 38 workers in a classroom at an underground training
facility when the roof collapsed on May 14, 10 were rescued,
according to Freeport Indonesia.  Richard Adkerson, chief executive officer of Phoenix,
Arizona-based Freeport and Freeport Indonesia’s Soetjipto are
scheduled to speak to reporters today in Jakarta.  Indonesia generated $1.3 billion in operating income for
Freeport last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Freeport owns 91 percent of the mine, which also produces gold,
and Indonesia’s government holds the rest, according to the
company’s website.  Copper production at its Indonesian operations was 315,000
metric tons in 2012, and gold output was 862,000 ounces,
according to Freeport’s  annual report . It had total annual
copper output of 1.67 million tons and gold production of
958,000 ounces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madelene Pearson in SINGAPORE at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  