-- Fusion-io in Play as Growth, Price Converge: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2013-05-22T13:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/fusion-io-in-play-as-growth-price-converge-real-m-a.html
Potential acquirers long tempted by
 Fusion-io Inc. (FIO) ’s industry-leading growth prospects got another
reason to consider a takeover when the memory-technology
company’s valuation sank this month.  The price-sales ratio for Fusion-io has fallen to a record
low after the chief executive officer and a co-founder both quit
this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Despite the
plunge, the Salt Lake City-based company’s prospects are intact,
according to the average of analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg, with sales  projected  to more than double through 2015
as more data centers use Fusion-io’s flash-memory technology.  “It’s a leader in a fast-growing segment where most of the
other large technology providers have a gap in their
offerings,” Abhey Lamba, a New York-based analyst at Mizuho
Securities USA Inc., said in a telephone interview. “Any large
hardware provider who has storage solutions could find value in
them. And any time there’s a break in valuation, buyers are
usually more attracted to the firm.”  Fusion-io may lure suitors including  NetApp Inc. (NTAP) , which
Elliott Management Corp. is pressuring to boost shareholder
value, and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  even though the new CEO said the $1.4
billion company isn’t for sale, according to Longbow Research.
As both a competitor and customer,  Hewlett-Packard (HPQ)  Co. may be
the most logical buyer once its turnaround is complete,
Dougherty & Co. said. Fusion-io, which counts Facebook Inc. and
Apple Inc. as its  biggest customers , has repeatedly been the
subject of takeover speculation, starting with a Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. report in 2011.  CEO’s Focus  A sale “is not my focus,”  Shane Robison , the new CEO,
said in an interview on May 8. “My focus is on growing the
company and building on what we have. If somebody expresses
interest, our board knows how to deal with that.”  Shannon McPhee, a spokeswoman at Fusion-io, didn’t respond
to a phone call or e-mail asking whether the company has been
approached by suitors.  Robison replaced David Flynn as CEO after Flynn and fellow
co-founder Rick White left to pursue “entrepreneurial investing
activities,” Fusion-io said May 8. They are both still board
members and together own about 3 percent of the company,  data 
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Fusion-io shares lost 19 percent, the most ever, on May 8
after the company announced the management changes. Robison is a
former executive at  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard
who helped lead the 2011 purchase of Autonomy Corp., which
resulted in an $8.8 billion writedown and allegations of
accounting lapses. That track record raised concerns about how
well he can direct strategy at Fusion-io, said Andrew Nowinski,
a Minneapolis-based analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos.  Depressed Level  Fusion-io’s stock price closed at a record low of $14.22
yesterday, pushing its price-sales ratio to 3.1, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “When the stock goes down, it’s certainly more
attractive” for suitors, Joe Wittine, an Independence, Ohio-based analyst at Longbow Research, said in a phone interview.
“You have to assume that they were getting interest in the past
and maybe the feelers were out there. As a buyer, you would
definitely take another look at them now because the stock is
cheap.”  Today, the stock climbed 0.6 percent to $14.31 at 9:40 a.m.
New York time.  Takeover speculation has buoyed the share price on at least
10 days since its June 2011 IPO, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg. In October 2011, Goldman Sachs analysts said Fusion-io was among companies with as much as a 50 percent probability
of being acquired.  Flash Pioneer  Fusion-io is seen as an attractive target partly because it
was a pioneer in  flash-memory  technology for servers, and
competitors are still trying to catch up, Wittine said.  Its software and memory chips work together to speed the
rate that server computers can access data, a handy tool for
customers such as Apple and Facebook that have data centers
constantly processing large amounts of information. Last month,
the company said it added music-streaming service Spotify as a
customer.  “Fusion-io’s technology is cutting edge,” Mark Kelleher,
a Boston-based analyst at Dougherty, said in a phone interview.
“It’s pretty amazing and unique.”  Hewlett-Packard, which uses Fusion-io’s products in the
servers it sells, is the most logical buyer, though it needs to
complete its turnaround efforts before striking a deal, Kelleher
said.  100 Times  NetApp of Sunnyvale,  California  or  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle should acquire Fusion-io to get a
leading position in flash memory, Wittine of Longbow Research
said. Oracle has a market value of $165 billion, more than 100
times bigger than Fusion-io.  NetApp, a $13 billion data-storage company, is being
pressed by activist  shareholder  Elliott Management to change its
board and study options to boost  shareholder value , people
familiar with the situation said last week. One way to do that
may be to acquire Fusion-io, Wittine said.  “If you’re an activist taking a stake in NetApp and you
potentially want it to make some smarter acquisitions, flash is
considered one of the areas where NetApp is behind,” he said.  Representatives at Hewlett-Packard, Oracle, NetApp and New
York-based hedge fund Elliott Management declined to comment.  Sales Growth  Fusion-io would give a buyer access to a business that’s
projected to increase  sales  by 102 percent in the next three
years, topping every rival, according to the average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  While that adds to the appeal, it also means an acquirer
will have to pay up to persuade Robison to sell the company,
Kelleher of Dougherty said. Mizuho’s Lamba said that just
because Robison said he isn’t weighing a sale, it doesn’t rule
one out.  “Most companies wouldn’t say if they are available for
sale,” Lamba said. “Most of the good acquisitions out there
are the ones where management teams remain focused on
operations. So we could see activity on that front.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  