-- GE Weighs IPO for Parts of Shrinking Finance Business
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-05-22T20:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/ge-weighs-ipo-for-parts-of-shrinking-finance-business.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  is considering
spinning off parts of its finance unit through an initial public
offering as Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  works to
shrink the business.  “In financial services, putting things up for sale with
the assumption that a bank would buy it has been a fool’s
journey,” Immelt said today at the Electrical Products Group
conference in Longboat Key, Florida. “So the only way you’ve
been able to think about this is by thinking about IPOs.”  The move will help shrink GE Capital’s ending net
investment, a measure of its  balance sheet , which will fall by
more than 25 percent to as little as $300 billion by the end of
2014, Immelt said, without specifying which units could be
divested. Businesses already jettisoned include U.S. residential
mortgages, a leasing business in  South Korea  and consumer banks
in Argentina and Brazil.  GE has been slashing the size of its financial arm since
its access to capital evaporated when credit markets froze in
the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 bankruptcy,
endangering the entire company. Immelt has turned his focus to
boosting earnings from units that manufacture  jet engines ,
electrical turbines and medical scanners.  Scott Davis of  Barclays Capital  and William Blair & Co.’s
 Nick Heymann  are among analysts who have speculated that GE may
exit its private-label credit card business through a sale or
IPO.  ‘Very Receptive’  The businesses that GE may exit “are great assets,
fantastic, but we think our commercial finance assets are very
strong and very consistent with our competitive advantage,”
Immelt said. “The capital markets are very receptive to IPOs
and a lot of different technologies today, so you basically have
as good a setting as you could possibly have.”  Seth Martin , a spokesman for the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company, declined to comment on which businesses might be
included.  GE  climbed  0.8 percent to $23.86 at the market close in New
York. The shares earlier reached $24.13, the highest on an
intraday basis since October 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  