-- German Bonds Snap Two-Day Decline Before Euro-Area PMI Reports
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2013-05-22T16:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/german-government-bonds-little-changed-before-10-year-debt-sale.html
German  government bonds  snapped a
two-day decline before data tomorrow that economists said will
show output in the euro-area’s manufacturing and services
industries contracted this month.  Ten-year bunds pared gains as Treasuries fell after Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the U.S. central bank may
reduce the pace of its asset purchases in the next few meetings.
A  composite index  based on a survey of purchasing managers in
the euro-area’s manufacturing and services industries increased
to 47.2 from 46.9 in April, according to the median of 27
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  “Tomorrow’s PMI data will be very important for sentiment
near term,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a strategist at RIA Capital
Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “The economic backdrop is more
favorable for bunds than Treasuries. This divergence will
persist if flash EU PMI surveys disappoint.”  The yield on  Germany ’s 1.5 percent bund due in February
2023 was little changed at 1.39 percent at the 5 p.m. close in
 London . The price was at 101. The rate earlier dropped as much
as six basis points to 1.33 percent.  The Treasury 10-year yield climbed as much as nine basis
points to 2.01 percent, the highest since March 15.  “If we see continued improvement, and we have confidence
that that is going to be sustained, in the next few meetings we
could take a step down in our pace of purchases,” Bernanke said
today in testimony prepared for a hearing at the Joint Economic
Committee of Congress in  Washington .  ‘Substantial Risk’  Bunds and Treasuries advanced earlier as Bernanke said the
 U.S. economy  remains hampered by high unemployment and
government spending cuts, and tightening policy too soon would
endanger the recovery.  “A premature tightening of monetary policy could lead
 interest rates  to rise temporarily but would also carry a
substantial risk of slowing or ending the economic recovery and
causing inflation to fall further,” Bernanke said.  Germany allotted 4.1 billion euros of a new benchmark
security due in May 2023 at an  average yield  of 1.41 percent at
an auction today, compared with a record-low 1.28 percent at a
sale of 10-year debt on April 17.  Spanish 10-year bonds rose for the sixth day, the longest
winning streak in six weeks. The yield was one basis point lower
at 4.18 percent.  Spanish Sales  Spain is considering a 15-year bond sale through banks this
year as well as offers of index-linked and dollar-denominated
debt as it seeks to tap investor demand, Deputy Treasury Head
Ignacio Fernandez-Palomero Morales said. The country sold 7
billion euros of 10-year bonds through banks on May 14, after
attracting bids for more than 21 billion euros.  “We could still access the markets with a potential
syndicated issue in the range of 15 years,” Fernandez-Palomero
said at a news conference in  Madrid  today. If market conditions
are suitable, Spain may carry out a syndicated sale before the
end of the year, he said.  Volatility on Belgian bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today followed by those of the Germany and  France ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  German bonds handed investors a loss of 1 percent this
month through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. Spanish securities dropped 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  