-- Germany Seeks to Step Up Fight Against Euro Area Unemployment
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-05-22T15:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/germany-seeks-to-step-up-fight-against-euro-area-unemployment.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government
wants to accelerate moves to fight unemployment in troubled
euro-area countries and is offering its expertise to countries
such as  Portugal  and Spain, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
and Labor Minister Ursula von der Leyen said today in Berlin.  Schaeuble said he’s agreed with his counterparts from
Spain, Portugal and  Greece  to “strengthen our efforts, also
bilaterally, complementary to European programs, especially to
improve the funding of small and medium-sized companies.”  Von der Leyen said adoption of Germany’s vocational
training system may help cut youth unemployment, which jumped to
24 percent in the euro region in March, according to seasonally-adjusted figures published by the European Union’s statistics
office.  Schaeuble has said he’s unhappy with the speed at which
European funds are disbursed to the euro region’s troubled
peripheral nations. The “legitimacy” of European policy making
hinges on its success in fighting unemployment, he said today.  “It’s decisive to be more successful and faster especially
in fighting youth unemployment,” Schaeuble said at an event in
his ministry organized by  Germany ’s VAP foreign journalists’
club. Von der Leyen said  Europe ’s young jobless must be given
“answers” and “perspectives” for jobs.  Schaeuble and his Portuguese counterpart, Vitor Gaspar,
earlier today discussed possible ways Germany could support to
Portugal, especially regarding the financing and capitalization
needs of Portuguese small and medium-sized companies.  KfW Bank  “The ministers agreed to closely cooperate in preparing
technical as well as financial support together with the German
development bank KfW,” Schaeuble and Gaspar said in a joint
statement after their meeting in Berlin. “KfW will also provide
further technical support to the setting up of the new
Portuguese financial development institution, a vital instrument
for investing in sustainable growth and  job creation  in
Portugal.”  The ministers, singling out job creation and youth
employment as the “key priorities for Europe as a whole,”
agreed that tackling financial constraints and promoting growth
is needed to “preserve the ability of European countries to
sustain the provision of social goods and to fight
unemployment.”  Europe needs a pact between the public and private sector
to boost training for young people, von der Leyen said yesterday
in  Madrid . Germany and France will announce joint proposals on
May 28 to address Europe’s soaring youth unemployment, von der
Leyen’s ministry said May 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  