-- Ghana Raises Benchmark Rate to 16% As Currency Weakens
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u   a n d   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2013-05-22T15:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/ghana-raises-benchmark-rate-to-16-as-currency-weakens.html
The  Bank of Ghana  unexpectedly raised
its benchmark  interest rate  by one percentage point to stabilize
a weakening currency as inflation reached a three-year high.  The  policy rate  was lifted to 16 percent, Governor Kofi Wampah told reporters today in Accra, the capital. Five out of
six economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the rate would
remain unchanged at 15 percent, while  Razia Khan , London-based
head of African economic research with Standard Chartered Plc,
expected a 100 basis-point increase.  The bank has “underscored its commitment to  price
stability ,” Khan said in a note to clients. “It should have
some impact on foreign-currency market confidence and stall some
of the front-loading of foreign currency demand that has been a
feature of the Ghanaian market recently.”  The cedi has depreciated 4.7 percent against the dollar
this year as companies increased their demand for foreign
exchange to pay import bills and repatriate profits. The
currency has also come under pressure after the government
posted a budget deficit of 12.1 percent of gross domestic
product last year, almost double the target of 6.7 percent.  Inflation accelerated to 10.6 percent in April from 10.4
percent in March. In February, the government cut fuel
subsidies, adding to pressure on inflation.  Inflation Risks  Risks to  Ghana ’s inflation rate include an increase in fuel
costs, fiscal spending and exchange rate fluctuations, Wampah
said. The trade deficit has widened as export revenue fell due
mostly to declining commodity prices, he said.  “The combination of these factors have resulted in
heightened exchange rate pressures,” Wampah said. “The
inflation profile is therefore currently dislodged from trends
over the recent past.”  The central bank increased its key rate by 2.5 percentage
points last year and boosted Treasury-bill sales to help
stabilize the cedi, which fell 14 percent against the dollar in
2012, making it Africa’s second-worst performer.  The cedi dropped 0.2 percent to 1.9943 per dollar by 2:23
p.m. in Accra. The yield on Ghana’s dollar bonds due October
2017 fell 7 basis points to 4.817 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax in Accra at 
 pbax@bloomberg.net ;
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  