-- Glaxo to Get Up to $200 Million for U.S. Research
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   O l i v i a   S t e r n s
-- 2013-05-22T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/glaxo-to-get-up-to-200-million-for-u-s-research.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , the U.K.’s
largest drugmaker, will work with the U.S. government to develop
antibiotics for resistant infections and bioterrorist threats in
an agreement valued at as much as $200 million.  The company will collaborate with the Biomedical Advanced
Research and Development Authority, a division of the  U.S.
Department of Health  and Human Services, which will provide $40
million for the initial 18-month agreement, London-based Glaxo
said in a statement today. If the accord is renewed over five
years, the department will provide as much as $200 million, the
drugmaker said.  Even as  drug-resistant bacteria  pose a growing threat
globally, the pipeline of new antibiotics is “virtually dry,”
the  World Health Organization  has said. Public funding is
necessary to sustain research in this area as many companies
have withdrawn efforts given the scientific challenges and lower
return on investment compared with other drugs, Glaxo said.  “There is an urgent need to address antibiotic resistance
and new models are needed to deal with this challenging area of
 drug development ,” David Payne, head of Glaxo’s Antibacterial
Discovery Performance Unit, said in the statement. “Innovative
public-private partnerships such as this are integral to solving
this critical health-care issue.”  In addition to hospital infections, bioterrorism threats,
including the plague, anthrax, rabbit fever, and potentially
other unknown microbes are also targets for the new research,
Payne said in an interview.  In October, Glaxo terminated clinical development of
GSK2251052, an antibiotic for hospital and biothreat pathogens,
after some patients showed resistance to the drug.  Glaxo and other drugmakers also won a contract from the
U.S. in June to boost  flu vaccine  manufacturing ability during
pandemics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net ;
Olivia Sterns in London at 
 osterns1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  