-- Gold Is Still Relevant as Insurance Policy, Franklin’s Land Says
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-05-22T04:15:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/gold-is-still-relevant-as-insurance-policy-franklin-s-land-says.html
At a time when gold is in a  bear
market  amid record outflows from investor holdings, bullion
remains relevant in portfolios as inflation may accelerate, the
 U.S. dollar  weaken and global economic growth stall, according
to Franklin Templeton Investments.  “As part of an overall diversified portfolio, gold does
serve a role because some of these things are still real risks
as we look forward over the next 12 months,” said Steve Land,
lead portfolio manager at the firm’s  Franklin Gold and Precious
Metals Fund (FKRCX) , which has over $1.34 billion in assets under
management. He spoke by phone from  San Mateo ,  California .  Gold has slumped 18 percent this year and entered a bear
market in April as investors sold the metal in favor of riskier
assets, spurred by expectations that stimulus programs would be
scaled back as the global economy recovers. Holdings in
exchange-traded products shrank 17 percent this year, after
climbing every year since the first product was listed in 2003,
as U.S. equity indexes reached an all-time high.  Bullion is reversing a 12-year bull run even as central
banks around the world including the U.S. Federal Reserve print
unprecedented amounts of money to strengthen their economies.
Analysts from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Credit Suisse Group AG
and Deutsche Bank AG called for the metal to peak this year.  Gold for immediate delivery was at $1,377.21 an ounce at
11:41 a.m. in  Singapore . Prices have retreated 28 percent from
the record $1,921.15 in 2011.  Insurance Policy  “When you’re at your best health, you’re feeling good,
that’s the time when your insurance policies are actually the
cheapest,” said Land. “It’s been very volatile and painful on
the way down but as a whole, a small allocation to gold as part
of an overall portfolio still serves its purpose. Once you find
out you’re sick it’s going to cost a lot more, it’s going to be
a lot more expensive.”  Gold fell to the lowest in more than two years last month,
unleashing a purchasing frenzy among coin and jewelry buyers
from the U.S. to  China  and  India , the largest consumers.
Bullion’s premium on the Shanghai Gold Exchange, China’s largest
cash market, remained above $20 for a fourth day yesterday,
according to HSBC Securities (USA) Inc.  “I’ve been very encouraged by the very significant uptick
in demand from coins and jewelry,” said Land. “People still
believe in gold, they still want it. The next time around when
investment interest comes back to the sector, it’s going to be
that much harder to price that gold out of people’s hands and
recreate some of those bars to fill the ETF vaults with.”  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management Corp. and  John Paulson ’s
Paulson & Co. are among investors sticking with their bullish
view even after they lost money on the metal. Paulson has said
gold is the best protection against currency debasement and
inflation, while Elliott said it remains the best store of value
and will rebound as governments haven’t found a solution to
their debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  