-- Iceland’s Government Targets Debt Reduction for Households
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2013-05-22T13:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/iceland-s-new-government-targets-debt-reduction-for-households.html
Iceland’s new government will target
measures to help households cut their debt loads, including
forcing write downs on assets held by the creditors of the
island’s failed banks.  “It’s right to use the space, which will likely be formed
in the winding up proceedings of the estates” of the three
failed banks “to accommodate borrowers and those that put their
savings into their homes,” the government said in its economic
program released today.  Measures will include ending a practice of linking
mortgages to the consumer price index, a step that will
“strengthen the foundations of monetary policy, which is an
important part of removing capital controls,” the Progressive
and Independence parties coalition said.  The leader of the Progressive Party Sigmundur David
Gunnlaugsson will become the next prime minister after winning
last month’s elections together with the Independence Party.
Among the new government’s goals is a plan to shelve
indefinitely European Union accession talks started in 2010.  Gunnlaugsson will head a coalition together with the
Independence Party led by Bjarni Benediktsson, who will become
finance minister. The two ousted the government of Social
Democrat Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir in Iceland’s
April 27 elections.  Loan Ban  The EFTA Surveillance Authority, which monitors Iceland’s
compliance with the European Economic Area agreement, today said
the country must lift a ban on mortgages linked to foreign
currencies because it restricts the free movement of capital.  “It can be lawful to restrict the granting of such high
risk financial products to consumers,” EFTA said. “However, a
total ban on granting such loans to individuals and companies
goes beyond what can be considered necessary in order to protect
consumers.”  The authority said it may bring the matter before the EFTA
Court if Iceland fails to take the measures necessary to comply.  Iceland’s Supreme Court ruled in 2010 that foreign-currency
indexed loans were illegal. Iceland’s largest banks defaulted on
about $85 billion in debt in 2008, sending the country into its
deepest recession in six decades.  After the collapse, the central bank estimated that
households had outstanding debt indexed to foreign currencies of
300 billion kronur ($2.4 billion) to 350 billion kronur.
Iceland’s 2008 financial crisis was exacerbated by banks
borrowing in yen and francs to take advantage of lower interest
rates, and then repackaging the loans in kronur.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik at 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  