-- Microsoft to Add Several Thousand Workers in China, Ballmer Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-05-22T16:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/microsoft-to-add-several-thousand-workers-in-china-ballmer-says.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the largest software
maker, will hire several thousand workers in  China  to support
new cloud computing services and smartphones using its  Windows
operating system , Chief Executive Officer  Steve Ballmer  said.  The  workforce  expansion, from a current base of 4,000
staff, will take place during the next year, Ballmer said
yesterday at a press conference in Shanghai that was streamed
live on the Internet. He didn’t provide a specific number for
new workers.  China has become the fastest growing  market  for the
company’s smartphone operating system, Ballmer said. The
Redmond, Washington-based company will start a public preview of
its Windows Azure service in the country next month, making
Microsoft the first multinational to offer public cloud
computing in the nation.  “I visited China last about one year ago in May and it is
remarkable to me how much has changed,” Ballmer, 57, said. “At
Microsoft this is an incredibly exciting time.”  Microsoft is counting on Azure and Internet-based business
programs to bolster growth as a global personal-computer slump
erodes demand for its software installed on desktop machines.
Shipments of PCs dropped 13.9 percent in the first three months
of this year, the steepest quarterly decline ever, International
Data Corp. reported last month.  Azure stores business information and programs on remote
servers and lets customers access them over the Web. Clients use
the service to run corporate programs, websites and applications
from Microsoft’s data centers, rather than spending on their own
servers, storage and workers.  Microsoft in November announced plans to offer Windows
Azure in China through a partnership with  21Vianet Group Inc. (VNET)   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  