-- Iluka May Increase Production as China, U.S. Demand Recovers
-- B y   D a v i d   S t r i n g e r
-- 2013-05-22T07:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/iluka-may-increase-production-as-china-u-s-demand-recovers.html
Iluka Resources Ltd. (ILU) , the world’s
biggest zircon producer, may increase output as demand recovers
in  China  and the U.S.  “It will be a progressive response to a progressive return
in demand,” Chief Executive Officer David Robb said today in a
phone interview. “It’s not like all of a sudden the light
switch goes on and we go back to running flat out.”  Iluka, based in Perth, Australia, expects demand to improve
as consumers rebuild stocks in China and U.S. residential
construction picks up. Sales in the U.S. and  Europe  this year
are forecast to exceed those in 2012, while China demand in 2013
is almost equal to last year’s, Robb said at the company’s
annual general meeting in Perth today.  Zircon is set for a rebound in demand and prices, Credit
Suisse analysts Matthew Hope and Martin Kronborg said in a note
to clients on May 14. The mineral, used in ceramics including
floor and wall tiles, has fallen to $1,200 a metric ton this
year from $2,500 a ton in the first eight months of 2012, Robb
said. Prices have now stabilized, he said.  “Price stability is an important first stage, which
provides confidence that underpins volumes coming back,” Robb
said. “Those two things together are a precondition later for
potential price increases.” He declined to give an estimate for
prices at the end of 2013.  Iluka may increase processing of stocks of mineral sands
that have already been mined and concentrated to boost output of
finished products, Robb said. A decision to resume operations at
the company’s halted Eneabba mine in  Western Australia  will be
taken after the company uses its current inventory, he said.  Earnings in 2013 will be “materially lower” than last
year because of lower prices, Robb said at the  shareholders’
meeting . Iluka’s  profit  in 2012 fell 33 percent to A$363.2
million ($355.3 million).  Iluka cut output of zircon and its rutile and synthetic
rutile products in February by half as housing starts in the
U.S. faltered and growth in China slowed.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  said
Feb 14. it would halt its Richards Bay Minerals zircon and
rutile operations in  South Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Stringer in Melbourne at 
 dstringer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  