-- IMF Urges Serbia to Hold Interest Rates Until Inflation Slows
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-05-22T19:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/imf-urges-serbia-to-hold-interest-rates-until-inflation-slows.html
Serbia  has limited room for monetary
easing until inflation slows and the government should cut
spending by at least two percentage points of economic output
for more stability, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  Policy makers may relax monetary policy once “there are no
adverse shifts in capital flows and monthly inflation subsides
as expected,” the IMF said in a statement at the conclusion of
a routine mission in the country.  Prices rose 11.4 percent from a year earlier in April,
outside the central bank’s target band of 2.5 percent to 5.5
percent in 2013. The jump was temporary and the outlook for
inflation remains benign, the central bank said last week.  The IMF suspended a $1.3 billion precautionary loan with
Serbia in February 2012 on evidence the previous government was
slipping on deficit and debt targets. It told Serbia in November
to cut debt without choking economic growth, citing an
unsustainable fiscal gap, volatile inflation and high
unemployment.  Budget cuts equivalent to two percentage points of gross
domestic product would put the economy on more sustainable
footing, the IMF said. “A decisive change in the current policy
course is needed to resolve the existing internal and external
macroeconomic imbalances, raise market confidence and boost
growth potential,” it said.  The main risks to the economy include a weaker-than-expected recovery in the euro area, while “higher global  risk
aversion  could increase the cost of financing and heighten
rollover risks of the public and private sectors,” the IMF
said.  Serbian policy makers cut the outlook for economic growth.
The economy may expand 2 percent this year, compared with an
earlier forecast of 2.5 percent, the central bank said today in
its quarterly inflation report. Consumer-price growth should
slow to less than 10 percent by the end of June, allowing
further monetary easing, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  