-- IMF Says U.K. Must Keep Focus on Reviving Economic Growth
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-05-22T11:34:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/imf-says-u-k-must-focus-on-growth-as-fiscal-flexibility-praised.html
The International Monetary Fund said
Britain should stay focused on policies to foster economic
growth and keep monetary policy loose, as it acknowledged some
improvement in the country’s economic and fiscal situation.  The fund’s Article IV review praised the government for
showing flexibility in its fiscal program, though it said
planned tightening will continue to act as a drag on growth. It
also said “subdued” inflation pressures can allow the Bank of
England to keep policy accommodative, and officials should
consider providing guidance that rates will stay low.  “While adhering to the medium-term framework, the
government has shown welcome flexibility in its fiscal
program,” it said today. “Given the tepid recovery, policy
should capitalize on the nascent signs of momentum to bolster
growth, notably by pursuing measures that address supply-side
constraints and also provide near-term support.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne won a respite
last month after data showed the economy escaped a triple-dip
recession. The IMF’s review marks a shift in tone from its April
World Economic Outlook, when it cut the U.K. growth forecast and
urged the government to show greater flexibility in its fiscal
adjustment, while calling on the BOE to consider further bond
purchases.  Forward Guidance  The IMF said today that in addition to considering further
purchases of gilts, the BOE “could provide assurance to
households and investors that policy rates will be kept low
until the recovery reaches full momentum.” The central bank is
currently reviewing the merits of so-called forward guidance and
will report in August.  The BOE kept its  bond-purchase program  unchanged at 375
billion pounds ($566 billion) this month and its benchmark
interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent. Minutes of the May
8-9 meeting released today showed a majority of officials
cautioned against the danger of stoking inflation expectations.  The IMF said on April 16 that U.K. gross domestic product
will increase 0.7 percent this year and 1.5 percent in 2014. It
previously projected growth of 1 percent and 1.8 percent.
Today’s report said risks remain “tilted to the downside.”  The government should implement growth-enhancing
initiatives such as bringing forward planned capital investment
and privileging growth-boosting measures to offset the drag from
planned fiscal consolidation, according to the report.  Housing Measures  While Osborne’s Help-to-Buy program, announced in March to
help the housing market, “may temporarily help boost
confidence,” the IMF added a note of caution.  “There is a risk that, in the absence of an adequate
supply response, the result would ultimately be mostly house-price increases that would work against the aim of boosting
access to housing,” it said. The fund added that the government
should consider measures such as disincentives for holding land
without development to alleviate that.  The IMF said Osborne needs a “clear strategy” for selling
the government’s stakes in  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  The banks said today that they won’t
have to raise additional equity to help plug a capital
shortfall, removing another obstacle to Osborne’s plan to start
selling the holdings. The IMF said a plan for the banks should
aim to “maximize the value for taxpayers.”  Britain’s underlying  budget deficit  widened in April, with
the shortfall excluding temporary support for banks increasing
to 10.2 billion pounds from 8.9 billion pounds a year earlier,
data today showed. The figures exclude the transfer of 3.9
billion pounds of cash from the BOE’s asset-purchase program
last month.  While reducing Britain’s debt remains “essential” in the
medium term, the IMF said that “judgments about fiscal policy
need to balance debt sustainability with growth concerns.”  “Given the tepid recovery, policy should capitalize on the
nascent signs of momentum to bolster growth, notably by pursuing
measures that address supply-side constraints and also provide
near-term support for the economy,” the IMF’s report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  