-- India Said to Seek Review of U.S. Court Ruling Papers on Ranbaxy
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2013-05-22T15:12:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/india-said-to-seek-review-of-u-s-court-ruling-papers-on-ranbaxy.html
India ’s health ministry has asked the
nation’s drug regulator to review U.S. court documents that
alleged  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  sold adulterated drugs,
according to a ministry official familiar with the matter.  The Ministry of Health & Family Welfare has asked the Drug
Controller General of India to examine documents filed in a U.S.
court in which Ranbaxy admitted it sold batches of drugs that
were improperly manufactured and tested and propose a course of
action, the official said, asking not to be identified because
the person isn’t authorized to speak to the media. India’s
biggest drugmaker on May 13 agreed to pay $500 million to
resolve the U.S. fraud allegations.  The official denied a report in Business Standard newspaper
that said the regulator had been ordered to start a probe,
including investigating previous drug approvals given to Ranbaxy
in India. The company’s  shares  fell 1.2 percent to 431.05 rupees
in Mumbai.  “All Ranbaxy products currently in the global market are
safe and effective,” Chief Executive Officer Arun Sawhney said
in a statement today. “We have also instituted a rigorous new
code of conduct for all Ranbaxy employees, with clear
accountability for compliance.”  The company has improved quality control and invested more
than $300 million in its manufacturing facilities to install new
technologies, according to the statement.  B. Narzary, a spokesman for the ministry, didn’t respond to
an e-mail and a phone call seeking comment.  The company’s export ban in the U.S. will remain in place
until it satisfies provisions it agreed to on Dec. 20, 2011,
with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and meets new
inspections, Ranbaxy said in an e-mail on May 14.  Japan ’s Daiichi Sankyo Co. bought a controlling stake in
Ranbaxy for $4.6 billion three months before the FDA said in
September 2008 that it would block more than 30 generic drugs
made at two of the Indian drugmakers plants because of drug
manufacturing and testing defects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  