-- India Rupee Near Lowest Since November Before Bernanke Testimony
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-05-22T11:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/india-rupee-near-lowest-since-november-before-bernanke-testimony.html
The Indian rupee dropped to its
lowest level since November before Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s testimony to the  U.S. Congress  on the world’s
largest economy.  St. Louis Fed President James Bullard yesterday said the
central bank should keep buying bonds and  New York  Fed President
 William Dudley  said it had previously been overly optimistic
about growth. Sixteen of 24 emerging-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg weakened in the past month on concern U.S. policy
makers will rein in debt purchases that have spurred fund flows
into  emerging markets .  “The rupee can rally only after Bernanke confirms that the
Fed will retain its pace of asset purchases,” said Nick Verdi,
a strategist at Barclays Plc in Singapore. “The rupee is
trading consistent with high-yielding peers like the South
African rand and Brazil’s real on concern of reduced inflows.”  The rupee declined 0.1 percent to 55.4750 per dollar in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
55.6450 earlier, the weakest level since Nov. 27. One-month
implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in the  exchange
rate  used to price options, rose 20 basis points, or 0.20
percentage point, to 8.47 percent.  Bernanke addresses Congress today, less than a month before
the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee meets. The FOMC
said May 1 that it will keep buying $85 billion in bonds per
month to bolster growth, and that it would increase or decrease
the purchases in response to the labor market and inflation.  Global funds bought a net $13.7 billion of Indian shares
this year and foreign  holdings  of local debt rose to a record
$38.1 billion on May 20, exchange data show. Ten-year Indian
sovereign bonds offer a premium of 524 basis points over
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards traded at 56.53 per
dollar, compared with 56.22 yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Offshore non-deliverable contracts were
at 56.46 versus 56.13. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  