-- Mine Tragedy Jogs Memories of Supply Shortfall: Chart of the Day
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2013-05-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/mine-tragedy-jogs-memories-of-supply-shortfall-chart-of-the-day.html
An accident at  Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s Grasberg mine is drawing comparisons with a
2003 landslide at the same Indonesian operation that helped
trigger an unprecedented five-year surge in copper prices.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows copper gaining 3.2 percent since
a May 14 tunnel collapse at Grasberg, where annual output this
year was forecast at about 500,000 metric tons, or about 3
percent of available global supply from mines. Operations will
remain suspended until a probe of the accident that killed 28
people is concluded, the government said May 21.  A decade ago, a landslide at the same open pit in the
province of Papua killed eight and cut output, marking the
beginning of a multi-year rally that led to a quadrupling of
copper prices. The latest accident will reduce an expected
surplus of available copper in global markets this year, Andrew
Michelmore, chief executive officer of  MMG Ltd. (1208) , the listed unit
of China’s biggest state-owned metals trader, said May 22.  “The uncertainty is causing short covering and with
positioning having been pretty short the rally could have some
legs,”  Gayle Berry , an analyst at Barclays Plc in  London , said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  While the 2003 event occurred when global inventories were
about 20 percent lower and the duration of the current stoppage
probably will be shorter, it comes as the company enters wage
negotiations, potentially further disrupting output, Berry said.
The mine’s workforce went on strike for three months in 2011 to
seek pay closer to their counterparts at  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s
Escondida copper mine in  Chile , the world’s largest.  Freeport-McMoRan, whose local unit declared a day of
mourning, said in a May 21 e-mailed statement that the accident
took place outside the area of mining operations and that the
complex was suspended out of respect for the deceased.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  