-- Australia Mine, Energy Investments Peak as Projects Delayed
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-05-22T04:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/mine-energy-projects-worth-147-billion-delayed-australia-says.html
Mining and energy projects worth
about A$150 billion ($147 billion) have been delayed or canceled
in the past year in  Australia  as investments peaked and
commodity prices declined.  There were 14 fewer projects being developed in Australia
as of April 30, the Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics
said today in a  report . Projects worth A$267.6 billion were
being developed, compared with a record A$268.4 billion on Oct.
31. Australia is the world’s biggest iron ore exporter.  Committed investment has peaked and may drop to A$256
billion by the end of the year, the Canberra-based agency said.
Investment may decrease by A$8 billion next year and revert to
levels comparable to 2007 starting 2017, the bureau estimates.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia  said  this month resource-sector investment is near its peak and expected to remain at a
high level for about the next year.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company, is targeting an 18 percent cut
in  capital spending  in fiscal 2014 to about $18 billion as part
of an industry-wide drive to boost returns from investment.  “The stock of committed investment has peaked and is
projected to decline over the next five years as a result of
fewer high value projects progressing through the investment
pipeline,” the Bureau of Resources and Energy Economics said in
a separate  statement .  The investment value covers 73 projects at the committed
stage from 87 in the previous period, the bureau’s  report  said.
Liquefied natural gas, natural gas and petroleum accounted for
about 77 percent of the expenditure and  iron ore  8.2 percent, it
said.  Bear Markets  Iron ore  tumbled into a  bear market  last week, joining
copper and gold, on concern that slowing growth in  China , the
world’s biggest buyer, will hurt the outlook for demand. This
year will probably signal “death bells” for the commodities
supercycle, according to Citigroup Inc.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI  gauge  of 24 raw materials is
down 2.6 percent this year, after an almost fourfold advance
since the end of 2001. Australia’s economy has been boosted by a
mining investment expansion to meet resource demand in emerging
nations like China, the biggest user of everything from copper
to coal.  “The approaching peak in resource investment, the high
level of the Australian dollar and ongoing fiscal consolidation
are all likely to weigh on growth over the next year or so,”
the RBA said in this month’s statement on monetary policy.  Slower Pace  While mining investment is still at a high level, it has
probably grown at a slower pace, it said.  “The downward shift in China’s economic growth rate
combined with the decline in the commodity intensity of growth
have a permanent and profound impact on global markets,”
Citigroup said in a May 20 report.  China’s economic growth slowed in the first quarter while
April industrial output and fixed-asset investment trailed
estimates.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-biggest mining company,
is on course to cut $2 billion in costs this year as lower
commodity prices cut revenue. The company has announced plans to
sell assets and reduce $5 billion of total costs since Chief
Executive Officer  Sam Walsh  took over in January.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  