-- Minerva Slumps as Russia Suspends Beef Imports: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2013-05-22T19:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/minerva-slumps-as-russia-suspends-beef-imports-sao-paulo-mover.html
Minerva SA, Brazil’s third-largest
beef producer by market value, dropped to a five-month low as
 Russia  suspended beef imports from one of its plants.  Shares of the Barretos, Brazil-based meatpacker fell 2.8
percent to 10.15 reais at 4:08 p.m. in Sao Paulo. A close at
that level would be the lowest since Dec. 18. Trading volume was
2.4 times the three-month daily average.  Russia “temporarily” halted beef imports from a plant in
the state of Goias, Minerva said in a regulatory filing
yesterday after the newspaper  Valor Economico  reported the
suspension. The company said it is working to adapt plant
conditions to Russia’s requirements.  “The suspension gives investors a bad feeling,” Felipe Rocha, an analyst at brokerage Omar Camargo, said by phone from
Curitiba,  Brazil . “Every now and then, we hear Russia is
threatening to take that kind of measure against Brazilian
meatpackers, so we never know if it’s really because of sanitary
problems or if there is another reason behind it, such as
political or regarding price negotiations.”  In December, Russia’s food safety agency said it was
considering a Brazilian beef import ban because of a possible
case of mad-cow disease. No action was taken.  Sao Paulo-based Valor also reported yesterday that Russia
suspended imports from two plants operated by  Marfrig Alimentos
SA (MRFG3) , Brazil’s second-biggest meatpacker.  Marfrig said today in a regulatory filing that it hadn’t
been notified and that if the halt is confirmed it will export
beef from other factories to Russia. Sao Paulo-based Marfrig’s
shares declined as much as 1.4 percent to 7.20 reais before
rising 2.6 percent to 7.49 reais.  The press offices of Minerva, Marfrig and Brazil’s beef
exporters’ association didn’t respond to phone calls and e-mail
messages from  Bloomberg News  seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in  Sao Paulo  at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  