-- Intuitive Robotic Surgery Case Goes to Seattle-Area Jury
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   G u t h r i e   a n d   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-05-22T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/intuitive-robotic-surgery-case-goes-to-seattle-area-jury.html
Jury deliberations are set to begin
in the first case to go to trial of at least 26 lawsuits against
 Intuitive Surgical Inc. (ISRG)  alleging injuries tied to its da Vinci
robotic system.  Kitsap County Superior Court Judge Jay Roof in Port
Orchard,  Washington , handed off the case to the 12-member jury
yesterday after a five-week trial. Deliberations will start
today.  Lawyers for the estate of Fred Taylor seek $8.45 million in
damages based on claims that Intuitive is mostly to blame for
his injuries stemming from a 2008 robot-assisted removal of his
prostate gland. Taylor and his family allege he suffered because
of Intuitive’s inadequate training that was streamlined and
compromised by the company’s push to sell its robots.  A lawyer for the company, Allen Ruby, yesterday told the
jury in closing arguments that Intuitive’s warnings went
unheeded by Taylor’s urologist, Scott Bildsten, and that he is
responsible for Taylor’s injuries.  Taylor experienced multiple medical complications following
the surgery and died four years later.  “Dr. Bildsten knew the path he was on was unduly risky,
and he still proceeded,” Ruby said. Taylor was morbidly obese
and previously had surgery for a hernia, which according to
Intuitive’s instructions, made him unfit as a candidate for
Bildsten’s first four to six surgeries, Ruby told jurors.  It is “frightening” how a patient’s fate “can be
compromised due to the disregard of warnings,” Ruby said.
“Surgeons are among the most highly trained members of our
society. When they take undue risks,” he said, “the
consequences on the innocent person are wrong.”  Bildsten settled claims against him by Taylor’s estate,
according to court documents, which didn’t provide specifics.  10 Ways  The plaintiff’s lawyer, Richard Friedman, in his closing
arguments on May 20 cited 10 ways in which Intuitive was
negligent, telling jurors that the most egregious of these was
recommending that a surgeon needs only two supervised robotic
surgeries following a one-day session at company  headquarters  in
Sunnyvale,  California , before being ready to perform the
procedure alone.  That recommendation, which appears in company documents
describing “best practices,” was the idea of Gene Nagel, who
was an executive in charge of training and development and “a
former wine salesman with no prior training” in medicine or
medical devices, Friedman said.  Bildsten had performed 100 successful prostatectomies using
traditional methods. Taylor was his first patient using the da
Vinci unassisted. After seven hours of difficulty, Bildsten and
other doctors turned to traditional surgery and then emergency
care to repair a rectal laceration.  In robotic surgery, a doctor sits at console several feet
from the patient and peers into a high-definition display. Foot
pedals and hand controls maneuver mechanical arms equipped with
surgical tools, guided by a 3D camera that shows the work as it
is done inside a patient.  The case is Estate of Fred E. Taylor v. Intuitive Surgical
Inc., 09-2-03136-5, Superior Court, State of Washington, Kitsap
County (Port Orchard).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Guthrie in state court in Port Orchard, Washington,
at  freepsg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  