-- Liquidators Apply to Freeze Tinkler’s Stake in Whitehaven Coal
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-05-22T01:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/liquidators-apply-to-freeze-tinkler-s-stake-in-whitehaven-coal.html
Liquidators acting for  Blackwood
Corp. (BWD)  applied to freeze the assets of former Australian mining
billionaire Nathan Tinkler, including his stake in coal producer
 Whitehaven Coal Ltd. (WHC)   The application to the  Supreme Court  of New South Wales
state also seeks orders to freeze the assets of the A$1.4
billion ($1.4 billion) Tinkler Family Trust and his wife
Rebecca, its trustee, Blackwood said today in a statement.
Tinkler’s wife owns the units and manages the trust that holds
about 19.5 percent of the outstanding shares of Sydney-based
Whitehaven, Tinkler testified in the court in March. The stake
is now valued at about A$452 million.  Blackwood and other Tinkler creditors are suing the
directors of Mulsanne Resources Pty, a company associated with
the Tinkler Group, for insolvent trading and breach of their
duties as directors after failing to complete a share purchase
in Blackwood.  Tinkler, who testified in court in March that he’s living
on an allowance that he gets from his wife, agreed in May 2011
to buy A$28.4 million of shares in Blackwood, a Brisbane-based
coal company. Mulsanne failed to come up with the money, and
Blackwood forced the company into liquidation in November in a
bid to recoup the debt.  Tinkler was listed as one of three directors of Mulsanne in
an Australian Securities and Investments Commission document. He
knew Mulsanne had no assets when he offered to buy the Blackwood
shares, Blackwood said. That amounts to insolvent trading, which
is illegal in  Australia .  The electrician-turned-entrepreneur was ranked as
Australia’s youngest billionaire at the age of 35 by BRW
magazine in 2011 after he sold his house in 2006 to help buy a
A$30 million Middlemount coal lease in Queensland.  He sold the lease a year later to Macarthur Coal Ltd. for
about A$465 million in cash and shares. He’s now struggling to
meet creditors’ demands, with several of his companies having
been threatened with liquidation for not paying debts and taxes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  