-- Iran Ups Uranium Output, Installs More Advanced Machines
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-05-22T15:58:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/iran-ups-uranium-output-installs-more-advanced-machines.html
Iran  lifted its output of uranium,
the heavy metal at the center of the Islamic Republic’s clash
with the  United Nations , according to inspectors, who also
reported that the Persian Gulf country continued upgrading the
machines it’s using to purify the material.  Iran’s production of medium-enriched uranium rose to 324
kilograms (714 pounds) from 280 kilograms reported in February,
the IAEA said today in a 13-page restricted report. Iran has
converted or is in the process of converting 142 kilograms, or
44 percent of the stockpile, into reactor fuel, leaving it with
182 kilograms that could be further enriched at short notice.  “While the agency continues to verify the non-diversion of
declared nuclear material,” inspectors are “unable to provide
credible assurance about the absence of undeclared nuclear
material and activities in Iran,” the Vienna-based IAEA said.  Tensions in the  Middle East  are rising as fighting in
 Syria , a key Iranian ally, threatens to spread into neighboring
countries.  Israel  and the U.S., which accuse Iran of seeking
nuclear weapons, haven’t ruled out military strikes to disrupt
the Persian Gulf nation’s atomic work. Iran, with the world’s
fourth-biggest proven oil reserves, insists its nuclear program
is peaceful. The country is under dozens of UN sanctions.  About 175 kilograms of 20 percent-enriched uranium, or 630
kilograms of low-enriched uranium, if further purified, could
yield the quantity of weapons-grade uranium needed to produce a
bomb, according to the London-based Verification Research,
Training and Information Center, a non-governmental observer to
the IAEA that’s funded by European governments.  Iran also continued installing more advanced centrifuges at
its Natanz facility, the agency said. The machines can enrich
more uranium in less time.  “Given the nature and extent of credible information
available to the agency about possible military dimensions to
 Iran’s nuclear program , the agency considers it essential and
urgent for Iran to engage,” the IAEA said in the report, which
will be released to the public on June 3, when the agency’s 35-member board of governors meets in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  