-- Iranian President to Request Reversal of Ally’s Election
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2013-05-22T08:59:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/iranian-president-to-request-reversal-of-ally-s-election.html
Iran ’s President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
is to “follow up” with the country’s supreme leader the
reasons for the disqualification of his ally Esfandiar Rahim
Mashaei from next month’s presidential election.  “I will follow up the matter with the supreme leader until
the last minute and hopefully it will get solved,” Ahmadinejad
told reporters today at the end of a Cabinet meeting, the state-run Fars news agency reported.  Ahmadinejad urged his and Mashaei’s followers to be
“patient,” saying that “no problem can persist when there is
a supreme leader.” Iran’s Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei 
is the final decision maker on all affairs of state.  Iran’s election watchdog, the Guardian Council, barred
Mashaei from the June 14 presidential vote yesterday, limiting
the field to eight candidates, most of whom are deemed loyal to
the Islamic Republic’s tenets. Some 650 people had sought
approval to run.  Mashaei has portrayed himself as a nationalist in an effort
to tap into anti-clerical feeling among some Iranians. Critics
have attacked him as representing a “current of deviation”
from the legacy of the Islamic Republic.  His prospects also may have been hurt by Ahmadinejad’s
increasingly fraught relations with much of Iran’s political
establishment. Ahmadinejad, who’s barred by the constitution
from seeking a third consecutive term, has engaged in public
disputes with senior officials, earning a rebuke from Khamenei.  Mashaei’s campaign office said he would appeal against the
Guardian Council’s decision, using the country’s “full legal
capacity,” the state-run Press TV news agency reported. This
may not be an option, council spokesman Abbas Ali Kadkhodaei
hinted yesterday, telling the state-run Iranian Students News
agency that “electoral law hasn’t planned for a complaints
stage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  