-- Italy to Press Fiat Chief Over His Commitment to Country
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-05-22T15:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/italy-to-press-fiat-chief-over-his-commitment-to-country.html
The Italian government plans to press
 Fiat SpA (F)  Chief Executive Officer Sergio Marchionne over concerns
he’s shifting the carmaker and heavy truck manufacturer Fiat
Industrial SpA away from the country.  Industry Minister Flavio Zanonato told newspaper Il Sole 24
Ore that he will meet with the CEO next week to ask about
Italy’s future role at the two companies. Zanonato’s comments
were confirmed by an Industry Ministry representative today.  Fiat Industrial is planning for tax purposes to have its
fiscal headquarters in the U.K. after completing a merger with
tractor unit  CNH Global NV. (CNH)  Fiat, the country’s biggest private
employer, is evaluating moving its corporate headquarters to the
U.S. from Turin after a planned combination with Chrysler Group
LLC, three people familiar with the matter said last week.  The possible move away from  Italy  has unsettled labor
leaders, who have asked the government to take action to protect
jobs. Any shift is especially sensitive with unemployment in
Italy near a 20-year high. Marchionne has also said he’s looking
at primary listings for the two companies in  New York  City to
gain better access to capital markets.  The merged Fiat Industrial-CNH plans “to operate in a
manner to be treated as resident in the United Kingdom for tax
purposes,” the company said in a Securities and Exchange
Commission filing released this week. The merged entity plans to
move its main corporate offices to the Netherlands, it said.
 “A fiscal domicile in the U.K. will put shareholders of the
new company on the same level with investors of its main
competitors,”  Fiat Industrial (FI)  said today in a statement.  Higher Taxes  The U.K. has been cutting corporate taxes, with the rate
set to fall to 20 percent in 2015 from 30 percent in 2007. In
Italy, companies pay 31.4 percent of their earning in taxes.  Fiat Industrial, which was spun off from Fiat in 2011, paid
564 million euros ($730 million) in corporate tax last year with
an effective rate of 38 percent, according to its annual report.  Marchionne is also evaluating moving Fiat’s corporate
headquarters to the U.S. from Turin, where the company was
founded in 1899, because the main sources of revenue and profit
are shifting to North America, the people said. Fiat earned 75
percent of 2012  operating profit  in the region.  Fiat said May 16 the headquarters issue is “not on its
agenda now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  