-- Japan Exports Miss Estimates After Yen Slides to 4-Year Low
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-05-22T01:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/japan-exports-miss-estimates-even-after-yen-slides-to-4-year-low.html
Japan’s exports missed estimates in
April and the trade deficit swelled, highlighting weakness in
global demand that may weigh on efforts to revive the world’s
third-biggest economy.  Overseas  shipments  rose 3.8 percent from a year earlier,
the  Finance Ministry  said in  Tokyo  today. That was less than the
median 5.4 percent estimate of 26 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . The trade shortfall widened to 879.9 billion yen
($8.6 billion), the most for the month of April since at least
1979, according to the government.  While the yen’s slide to the lowest in four years last week
will aid Japanese companies by making their products more
competitive in overseas markets, today’s data showed that
limited demand in the European Union is constraining exports.
The latest numbers also showed the cost of a weak currency, as
higher import costs drove a  10th straight  trade deficit.  “Exports didn’t regain as much momentum as we expected,
even with a weakening yen,”  Yuichiro Nagai , an economist at
Barclays Plc in Tokyo said. “Japan’s trade balance will be
stuck in the red at least until fiscal 2015.”  The Japanese currency was at 102.59 per dollar at 9:49 a.m.
in Tokyo after touching 103.31 last week. The  Topix Index (TPX)  rose
to a 4 1/2-year high. Steelmakers gained 15 percent in the past
four trading days, the most among the  33 Topix industry groups 
after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe vowed to boost infrastructure
exports.  Bank of Japan officials are meeting today to set monetary
policy, with analysts forecasting that they will stick with a
plan for unprecedented easing unveiled in April.  Exports to the European Union fell 3.5 percent from a year
earlier, dropping for a 19th month, while those to the U.S.
jumped 15 percent. Shipments to  China  rose 0.3 percent,
indicating that demand may be stabilising after past declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  