-- Jordan Says Cap Shifting, Negative Rates in SNB’s Toolkit
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-05-22T15:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/jordan-says-cap-shifting-negative-rates-in-snb-s-toolkit.html
Swiss National Bank President Thomas Jordan said a shift of the cap on the franc and negative
 interest rates  are among steps the central bank could take,
prompting the franc to break through 1.26 per euro for the first
time in two years.  “The adjustment of the minimum  exchange rate  is something
that principally belongs to the options if needed,” Jordan told
reporters in  Frankfurt  yesterday. “We will maintain the minimum
exchange rate for as long as necessary.”  The SNB set a cap of 1.20 francs per euro in September 2011
to ward off deflation and a recession, having already cut rates
to zero. While trade unions have called on the central bank to
change the limit to make the franc still weaker, the SNB
previously said the level of the cap on the franc couldn’t just
be shifted at will.  “An appreciation of the franc would endanger  price
stability  and have structurally grave consequences for the Swiss
economy,” Jordan said, adding that he isn’t expecting any
inflation risks for the foreseeable future.  The franc fell as much as 1 percent after Jordan’s
comments, slipping as low as 1.2650, its weakest since May 2011.
The franc stood at 1.2624 per euro at 5:15 p.m. in Zurich.
Against the dollar it weakened through 98 centimes per dollar,
the lowest level since Aug. 10, before trading at 97.99 centime.  ‘Unpredictable’ Move  “The next move by the SNB has become unpredictable,”
Peter Rosenstreich, chief foreign exchange analyst at Swissquote
in Geneva, said in an e-mailed note. “As always traders are
getting way ahead of themselves by speculating that the SNB will
act with some new measure.”  The SNB, which holds its next policy review on June 20, has
repeatedly said it could take further measures, if it deems them
necessary. Swiss consumer prices have fallen for 19 consecutive
months and the Zurich-based institution expects an annual
decline of 0.2 percent in 2013. Still, the SNB sees the Swiss
economy growing as much as 1.5 percent this year.  “We never excluded that we could introduce negative
interest rates,” Jordan said, adding that such rates have
“side effects.”  The  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday that the SNB
could implement a charge on excess deposits commercial lenders
hold with the central bank, echoing comments it made in March.
That form of negative rate could be passed by banks to clients
and may result in higher  mortgage rates  that could help damp the
country’s  booming real-estate market , the IMF said, adding that
this could also hinder financial intermediation.  No Euro  Switzerland, which isn’t a member of the European Union,
isn’t planning to join the euro, Jordan also said. “It’s not a
realistic scenario for the foreseeable future,” he told
reporters in comments embargoed for today.  The SNB is part of a group of central banks around the
world that have eased policy to foster growth. Distortions could
develop “sooner or later” as a consequence of so much
stimulus, with a normalization having to take place at some
point, Jordan said.  “The hope is that the economy recovers before inflation
kicks in,” he said referring to the global economy rather than
just  Switzerland . “That’s the theory -- how it’ll be
practically remains to be seen.”  The SNB has accumulated foreign currency reserves equal to
about three quarters of annual economic output due to its
interventions to maintain its ceiling on the franc. It also
holds 1,040 tonnes of gold, most of which is stored
domestically.  “We think about many things but not about buying or
selling gold,” Jordan said. “That doesn’t have to remain the
case for eternity, but from today’s perspective, we’re not
striving for change.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  