-- JPMorgan Seen Waiting on Board Changes After ‘Stay Tuned’ Remark
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2013-05-22T18:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/jpmorgan-seen-waiting-on-board-changes-after-stay-tuned-remark.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s board, whose
top director told investors yesterday to “stay tuned” for
changes to its risk committee, isn’t likely to add new members
immediately, according to two people with knowledge of the
board’s thinking.  The board isn’t seeking to replace current members and may
take months to make any additions, the people said, asking not
to be named because the talks are private. Lead director Lee R. Raymond, 74, wants to strengthen the New York-based firm’s  board 
by adding executives with more experience in finance and
accounting after some shareholder groups opposed re-electing as
many as six risk- and audit-committee members, the people said.  The 11-member board doesn’t see a need to rush additions to
those two panels after shareholders voted yesterday in favor of
every member and increased support for Jamie Dimon’s dual roles
as chairman and chief executive officer, the people said. Three
of the risk committee’s four members received less than 60
percent support from shareholders.  “In terms of the composition of the risk committee, you
should stay tuned,” Raymond told investors yesterday at the
annual investor meeting in Tampa,  Florida , shortly before the
preliminary voting results were made public. Kristin Lemkau, a
spokeswoman for the bank, declined to comment on the board’s
plans.  Ellen V. Futter, the 63-year-old president of the American
Museum of Natural History in New York, didn’t attend the
shareholder meeting and came in last among directors with 53
percent voting for her re-election. David M. Cote, the 60-year-old CEO of  Honeywell International Inc. (HON) , received 59 percent
support, and James S. Crown, the 59-year-old president of Henry
Crown & Co., got 57 percent.  JPMorgan rose 2.8 percent to a 12-year high of $54.50 at
12:41 p.m. in New York. The stock has advanced 24 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  