-- Junk Yields Outweigh Default Risk, Wells Capital’s Patel Says
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-05-22T16:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/junk-yields-outweigh-default-risk-wells-capital-s-patel-says.html
Investors may still find value in
speculative-grade corporate bonds paying record-low yields as a
falling default rate curbs the risk of losses, according to
Margie Patel, a  money manager  at Wells Capital Management Inc.  “The economic growth looks like it’s stable to
accelerating, there’s no sign defaults are going to pick up and
the composition of the high-yield market to me looks pretty
good,” Boston-based Patel, who oversees about $1.5 billion at
the unit of  Wells Fargo & Co ., said today in an interview on
 Bloomberg Radio ’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee .  Corporate borrowers have sold $183.4 billion of dollar-denominated, speculative-grade bonds this year, the most for the
period on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, as
unprecedented stimulus efforts by the  Federal Reserve  suppress
 interest rates  and push investors into riskier assets to boost
yields.  As yields in a Bank of America Merrill Lynch junk-bond
index fell to a record low of 5.98 percent on May 9, about 80
percent of issuers in the first quarter that disclosed use of
proceeds were borrowing to refinance debt, according to Moody’s
Capital Markets Research Group data. That’s poised to keep
default rates low, Patel said.  “The pool of candidates likely to go into default a couple
years from now look pretty small based on the issues that have
come to market in the last couple of years, especially when it
looks as if the economy is moving ahead,” she said. “That’s a
pretty good backdrop, and the Fed is clearly not going to be
slamming on the brakes.”  Default Rate  The speculative-grade default rate in the U.S. is projected
to fall to 2.7 percent this year, the lowest level since
February 2012, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The extra yield investors demand to own  junk bonds  instead
of Treasuries with similar maturities, which reached a more than
five-year low of 423 basis points this month, is still higher
than the 2006 average of 326 basis points, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. With a muted default rate, “we
actually could narrow spreads because high yield doesn’t have a
lot of risk right now,” Patel said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc lifted their
forecasts for U.S. junk-bond returns as this year’s rally
exceeds the expectations of top-rated credit strategists.  Barclays analysts predict high-yield bonds may gain 8
percent in 2013, as much as four percentage points more than
their original expectation, strategists led by Jeffrey Meli and
Bradley Rogoff said in a May 17 report. JPMorgan sees “modest
upside risk to our original full-year return forecast of 7 to 8
percent for U.S. high yield” and now expects gains of as much
as 10 percent, according to strategists led by Jan Loeys.  High-yield, high-risk bonds are graded below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- at  Standard & Poor’s .  “There’s a lot of issues to choose from in a wide range of
industries, and they’re priced more or less appropriately for
the risk,” Patel said. “So that’s not a bad market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  