-- Kazakhmys Falls in London as UBS Cuts Stock to Neutral on ENRC
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-05-22T11:26:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/kazakhmys-falls-in-london-as-ubs-cuts-stock-to-neutral-on-enrc.html
Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  dropped the most in a
month in London after UBS AG cut its rating to neutral from buy
following a lower-than-expected takeover offer by Kazakhstan’s
biggest copper company for  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp. (ENRC)   Kazakhmys slid as much as 8.6 percent, the biggest intraday
loss since April 22. UBS analysts Danielle Chigumira, Daniel Major and Myles Allsop cut its price estimate to 385 pence from
465 pence in a note today. Kazakhmys owns 26 percent of ENRC.  ENRC’s founding shareholders  Alexander Machkevitch , Patokh Chodiev and Alijan Ibragimov and the Kazakh government, together
holding 54 percent, last week offered 175 pence in cash and
0.231 shares of Kazakhmys Plc for each ENRC stock. The bid was
equivalent to 260 pence a share based on a Kazakhmys stock price
of 370 pence, the independent committee set up by London-based
ENRC’s board said in a statement on May 20, rejecting the bid.  UBS estimates the so-called net present value of an ENRC
investment at 620 pence a share, according to the analysts.  “Initially, we took the view that the consortium, as long-term fundamental shareholders, would be willing to pay somewhere
between fair value and the share price to buyout ENRC,” they
said. “Given the value of the initial proposal is dramatically
below estimated fair value, we believe it likely that an offer
for ENRC is more likely to be in the range of 300-350 pence.”  Kazakhmys fell 5.8 percent to 341.1 pence and ENRC rose 0.9
percent to 268.5 pence by noon in  London . UBS recommends buying
the ferroalloy producer “given we still see a high probability
that an offer for ENRC is above its current share price.”  Fund Raising  The founders are raising $1.6 billion to fund the cash part
of the deal and the government is offering its 26 percent in
Kazakhmys, said people familiar with the matter who asked not to
be identified as the information isn’t public. Kazakhmys will be
offered $885 million and 77 million of its own shares for its
ENRC stake, they said. One of the people said Kazakhmys plans to
cancel the 77 million shares, about 15 percent of total stock.  “We would note the potential for a re-rating post-crystalizing value for the ENRC stake and stronger balance
sheet,” UBS said in the report. “However, with current ENRC
shareholders likely to be event-driven, there is the potential
these holders will not be long-term holders in Kazakhmys.”  Kazakhmys is targeting 500,000 metric tons of copper output
annually by 2017 after construction of the Bozshakol and Aktogay
mines is complete. The company, which produced 294,000 tons in
2012, forecasts 285,000 to 295,000 tons this year.  The U.K. Panel on Takeovers and Mergers last week agreed to
extend to June 3 the deadline by which the bidding group must
either improve its offer or walk away, according to ENRC.  The cash and share offer will prevent Kazakhmys cutting its
net debt to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization, UBS said. “We had initially assumed the offer for
ENRC minorities would be in cash; however the initial proposal
is split between cash and equity,” the analysts said.  “This means that the potential deleveraging is less than
we had originally hoped, meaning that even with a significant
bump to the cash portion of the offer, Kazakhmys’s net
debt:EBITDA would be much higher than the rest of the sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  