-- Korea’s First Cargo Airline Plans China Route Chasing Samsung
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2013-05-22T16:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/korea-s-first-cargo-airline-plans-china-route-chasing-samsung.html
Air Incheon Co. ,  South Korea ’s first
cargo-only airline, plans to start services this year to smaller
cities in China, where  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
assemblers are increasingly locating their factories.  Air Incheon expects to receive its second leased aircraft
in August and that will facilitate the China service, Vice
President Kim Gyu Hyeong said in an interview. The Seoul-based
airline, which started operations in March, now moves  mobile
phones , garments and oil drilling equipment to Japan and Russia.  The cargo carrier aims to focus on flights less than four
hours with its  Boeing Co. (BA)   737-400  plane, Kim said. South Korea’s
dominance in phones, chips and TVs prompted Asia’s fourth-largest economy to issue its first license in March for a cargo-only airline that will compete with international freighters
such as  Korean Air Lines Co. (003490)  and  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)   “The strategy of focusing on small Chinese cities could
work considering how companies are moving further inland,” said
Um Kyung A, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities Co. in Seoul.
“Smaller planes can go into a lot more places where big ones
can’t fly into.”  The carrier plans to provide feeder services to  Incheon
airport  for  Korean Air , which moves goods to long-haul
destinations, Kim said during an interview yesterday.  “We see opportunities in the niche market,” he said. “We
want to tap into markets where big planes can’t get into.”  Samsung, Apple  The global airfreight market shrank 2 percent in 2012 for a
 second consecutive year  and airlines were filling less than half
of their cargo planes, according to  International Air Transport
Association . The industry may expand 2.7 percent this year,
benefiting Asian carriers the most, IATA has forecast.  Airlines haul about $5 trillion of total cargo annually,
accounting for a third of the global trade in terms of value,
according to the group. Asian airlines are the biggest players
in the air-cargo market.  Mobile phones are one of the top three products that are
moved by air in South Korea, home to Samsung and  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570)  A Boeing 747-8 freighter plane carrying nothing else can
hold about 1 million phones.  Samsung, LG and other South Korean companies are making
some of the components that go into mobile phones in China.
Samsung said in April last year that it will spend $7 billion to
build a semiconductor plant in the western city of Xian in China
to meet growing demand for mobile phones.  Foxconn Technology Group, the  assembler  of Apple iPhones,
puts together devices in cities such as Zhengzhou and Taiyuan.  Kim said Air Incheon is also interested in flying to
Mongolia and  Southeast Asia  where economic growth spurs demand
for air cargo.  “These are the markets we want to tap into,” he said.
“Because of the limitation of inland infrastructure, we believe
there is demand for our services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  