-- Kyoto Bank Weighs Purchasing More J-REITs for Higher Returns
-- B y   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-05-22T03:45:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/kyoto-bank-weighs-purchasing-more-j-reits-for-higher-returns-1-.html
Bank of Kyoto Ltd.  is among a few
Japanese regional lenders that are weighing additional
investments in real estate investment trusts as low  interest
rates  limit returns on  government bonds .  The Japanese bank said it will consider boosting purchases
of so-called J-REITs in the year ending March, according to a
 Bloomberg News  survey of 11 local lenders.  Bank of Yokohama Ltd. 
and  Bank of Fukuoka Ltd.  said they may buy more of the
securities, without specifying when. Eight respondents said they
will keep their J-REIT investment policies unchanged.  Regional banks are divided on whether to turn to J-REITs in
search of higher returns as the  Bank of Japan  steps up bond
purchases to lower interest rates and join Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe’s deflation-fighting campaign. An  index  of J-REITs has a
dividend yield of more than 3 percent, while benchmark 10-year
 notes  haven’t yielded more than 1 percent since April 2012.  “Even though some banks are planning to maintain their
investment plans, depending on how the  bond market  moves, they
could review their portfolios and allocate more money to the J-REIT market,” said  Masahiko Sato , an analyst at Nomura
Securities Co. in  Tokyo . “Government bond yields are unlikely
to rise much under the Abe administration’s policies, so if you
don’t act, your investment returns will fall.”  Rely More  Regional banks rely more on investments in marketable
securities for revenue than the nation’s three biggest banks,
which can tap overseas operations and brokerage units for
additional income.  Japan’s banks accounted for about 14 percent of the 6.25
trillion yen ($61 billion) worth of J-REIT transactions in 2012,
Tokyo Stock Exchange data show. Of that portion, 80 percent was
from regional lenders, according to Mikio Namiki, an analyst at
Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo.  “J-REITs are one option when we seek more yield in a low
interest-rate environment,” said Yoshihiro Yamanaka, general
manager of the treasury and investment division at Bank of
Kyoto.  Japan ’s monetary easing policies “seek to push up asset
values, and our expectations that J-REIT prices may rise are
prompting us to consider buying more of them.”  Bank of Yokohama , Japan’s biggest publicly traded regional
bank by assets, said asset diversification was a reason for
considering an increase in REIT purchases, according to the
survey, which was taken from April 22 to May 7. Bank of Fukuoka
cited a desire to boost earnings.  REITs pool investors’ money to buy real estate and are
publicly traded like stocks. The dividend yield for trusts on
the 6.7 trillion yen Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT index as of May
21 was 3.24 percent, compared with a 0.88 percent yield for 10-year  government bonds .  At the same time, J-REITs have underperformed Japanese
stocks this year. The TSE REIT index fell 2.6 percent at 12:40
p.m. in Tokyo, paring this year’s advance to 32 percent after a
 record  34 percent gain in 2012. That compares with a 49 percent
increase in the benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  of shares in 2013.  Bloomberg News received replies to its questionnaire on J-REITS from the following 11 financial institutions:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  