-- Natural Gas Inventory Estimates Predict Gain Was Above Average
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-05-22T19:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/natural-gas-inventory-estimates-predict-gain-was-above-average.html
Natural gas stockpiles rose by more
than the seasonal norm last week for the third time in a row,
according to  analyst forecasts  compiled by Bloomberg.  U.S. stockpiles gained 92 billion cubic feet to 2.056
trillion in the seven days ended May 17, based on the median of
10  analyst estimates . The five-year average increase for the
period is 90 billion, Energy Information Administration data
show. Inventories increased by 75 billion a year earlier.  The estimates range from increases of 87 billion to 99
billion cubic feet. The EIA, the statistical arm of the Energy
Department, is scheduled to release its weekly gas inventory
report at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  Temperatures were below normal along the East Coast and
into Texas last week with higher-than-normal readings across the
rest of the lower 48 states, according to MDA Weather Services
in Gaithersburg,  Maryland . More seasonal May weather after an
unusually cold start to spring cut demand, boosting storage
injections above the norm for the time of the year.  “The vicious weather system that is producing some cooling
demand, along with epic tornadoes, is moving through and longer-range forecasts are showing moderation,”  John Kilduff , partner
at Again capital LLC and editor of the Energy OverView
newsletter in New York, wrote today. “We expect a net injection
of 96 bcf of gas into storage tomorrow, and that should renew
the selloff.”  Natural gas futures have risen 13.1 cents, or 3.2 percent,
this week to $4.186 per million British thermal units on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Futures are up 25 percent this year.  Gas inventories in the week ended May 10 were 4.1 percent
 below  the five-year average, narrowing from 5 percent the prior
period, according to the EIA. A  deficit  versus year-earlier
levels narrowed a fifth week to 26.1 percent from 28.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in  New York  at 
 Nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  