-- Neanderthal Moms Weaned Babies Like Reading Modern Guides
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2013-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/neanderthal-moms-weaned-babies-like-reading-modern-guides.html
Neanderthals breastfed their children
in line with modern pediatric recommendations on when to
supplement mother’s milk with other food, scientists said.  Research based on the fossilized enamel of a single
Neanderthal child found that the mother breastfed exclusively
for seven months and continued nursing for another seven months
while adding other foods. She then stopped breastfeeding when
the baby was 14 months old, earlier than most humans,  according
to the study  published yesterday in the journal Nature.  While modern humans can wean their children as early as a
year without serious health effects, most nurse longer,
averaging 2.3 years to 2.6 years of breastfeeding, the study’s
authors wrote. The Neanderthals’ early weaning practice may have
allowed shorter periods between pregnancy that can affect
“ population growth , evolution and success,” the authors wrote.  “Weaning is critical to developmental and reproductive
rates; early weaning can have detrimental health effects but
enables shorter inter-birth intervals,” according to the study,
which was led by Manish Arora, a senior lecturer in dentistry at
the  University of Sydney .  The  American Academy  of Pediatrics suggests  exclusive
breastfeeding  for six months after birth before adding food, and
that mothers continue to nurse for at least 12 months.  In the study released yesterday, the authors said the tooth
finding isn’t representative of the general  Neanderthal 
childhood because the weaning was early and abrupt. Other
reports have suggested the lifespan of Neanderthals was probably
the same as that of humans. Neanderthals became extinct about
30,000 years ago.  The scientists were able to determine the Neanderthal
breastfeeding time frame by looking at the levels of a chemical
element, barium, in the tooth enamel of a child’s molar. Though
this was only one Neanderthal fossil specimen, tests using
barium dating in other teeth, including those of human babies
and macaques, an Old World monkey, appeared to corroborate the
technique.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  San Francisco  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  