-- New L.A. Mayor Garcetti Confronts Deficits Through 2017
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-05-22T10:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/new-l-a-mayor-garcetti-confronts-deficits-through-2017.html
Los Angeles voters elected Councilman
Eric Garcetti as mayor of the second-largest U.S. city,
replacing  Antonio Villaraigosa  and inheriting a budget that
relies on city unions to forgo 5.5 percent raises next year and
uses about three-quarters of a  reserve fund .  Garcetti defeated City Controller Wendy Greuel, 54 percent
to 46 percent, according to results posted on the Los Angeles
City Clerk’s website early today.  Garcetti, 42, who takes office July 1, will step in as
general-fund revenue is  forecast  to grow 7.1 percent in fiscal
2014. As a result, the city won’t need to declare a fiscal
emergency, a first since 2008.  Garcetti and fellow Democrat Greuel, 51, raised more than
$15 million combined for the nonpartisan campaign and attracted
almost $10 million in independent expenditures,  according  to
City Ethics Commission data.  The  Service Employees International Union , the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and other city
unions supported Greuel, while the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters and other non-municipal labor groups backed Garcetti.  Both Garcetti and Greuel said during the campaign that they
would consider seeking more concessions from the unions. Neither
offered specific proposals to reduce spending on wages and
benefits for 32,000 municipal workers.  Greuel worked as an executive at  Dreamworks Animation SKG
Inc. (DWA)  before winning a seat on the City Council representing part
of the San Fernando Valley in 2002. She was elected controller,
which audits municipal departments and writes financial reports,
in 2009.  Hollywood Seat  Garcetti, the son of former Los Angeles County District
Attorney Gil Garcetti, was elected to a Hollywood-area council
seat in 2001. The holder of degrees from Columbia and Oxford
Universities is of mixed Mexican and Italian heritage and served
as council president for six years. He will be the first
practicing Jew elected to lead the city.  Villaraigosa, modern Los Angeles’s first Latino mayor,
didn’t endorse any of the candidates to succeed him. The
election came more than two months after Garcetti received the
most votes on the primary-election ballot, with Greuel second.  Los Angeles  is in a “great place” financially,
Villaraigosa, 60, said yesterday. The City Council raised the
minimum age for full retirement to 65 from 55 for municipal
workers and cut pension benefits last year. That’s projected to
save as much as $4.3 billion over 30 years.  “Tell me another city that almost doubled the employee
contribution for retirement,” Villaraigosa, a Democrat, said as
he prepared to vote. “I’m very proud of it. It’s dramatically
better than it was during the crisis.”  Budget Deficits  Los Angeles has dealt with $1.6 billion in deficits over
the past four fiscal years, which begin each July 1. For 2014,
Villaraigosa proposed a $7.7 billion budget that relies in part
on one-time moves such as transferring $53.5 million from a
budget-stabilization reserve, leaving $16 million, according to
a  memo  from City Administrative Officer  Miguel Santana .  Villaraigosa’s budget also counts on city employees to go
without pay raises through 2017, even though most civilian
workers are owed a 5.5 percent increase on Jan. 1, under
contracts negotiated in 2007, according to the city manager.  Villaraigosa, who couldn’t seek re-election because of  term
limits , said yesterday that increasing pay rates was a
“mistake” and that workers must make concessions.  “We all agreed that we’ve got to really encourage our
unions to become better partners here and to help us,” he said
outside a church that doubles as a polling place.  Moody’s Investors Service raised its rating for the city of
3.8 million residents to Aa2 in January, its third-highest level
and the first increase in two decades, citing rising property-tax receipts. Standard & Poor’s rates Los Angeles AA-, its
fourth-highest grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  