-- Nigeria’s MEND Suspends Plans to Attack Mosques, Kill Clerics
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2013-05-22T18:06:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/nigeria-s-mend-suspends-plans-to-attack-mosques-kill-clerics.html
Nigeria’s Movement for the
Emancipation of the Niger Delta said it has suspended plans to
bomb mosques and kill Muslim clerics after heeding appeals from
religious groups and prominent citizens including  Henry Okah .  President Goodluck Jonathan’s order yesterday to free some
suspected Boko Haram terrorists, including all women, was also
taken into “serious consideration” because it gave “room for
genuine dialogue,” MEND spokesman  Jomo Gbomo  said today in an
e-mailed statement. The attacks, which were supposed to start
May 31, are suspended “with immediate effect.”  MEND, the main rebel group in the oil-rich Niger River
delta, said on April 15 it may call off “Operation Barbarossa”
if Christian organizations and Okah, the group’s suspected
leader, intervene. It also urged the Islamist militants of Boko
Haram to stop attacking Christians and churches. MEND destroyed
a  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  oil well in Nembe in southern Bayelsa
state on April 13 as part of a separate operation it calls
“Hurricane Exodus,” Gbomo said.  Boko Haram has waged a violent campaign since 2009 to
impose Islamic law in  Africa ’s largest oil producer that has
killed hundreds of people in the mainly Muslim north and Abuja,
the capital. The Nigerian military began an air and ground
offensive last week after Jonathan imposed emergency rule in the
northeastern states of Borno, Yobe and Adamawa on May 14.  MEND also asked for the release of Okah and others standing
trial for the 2010 Independence Day bombing in Abuja, the
capital. Okah was on March 26 sentenced to 24 years in jail by a
South African court on 13 counts of terrorism, including the
Independence Day attack that killed 12 people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  