-- Nokia Siemens Plans Management Overhaul to Cut Costs
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-05-22T21:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/nokia-siemens-plans-management-overhaul-to-cut-costs.html
Nokia Siemens Networks plans to
revamp its management in  Europe  and  Latin America , closing down
functions and simplifying its structure as the wireless-gear
venture of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Siemens AG (SIE)  cuts costs.  Eduardo Araujo, head of Latin America, is set to leave as
Nokia Siemens dismantles parts of its organization to become
more aligned with customers rather than regions, according to a
memo sent to employees and obtained by  Bloomberg News . The
company said in the memo it will look for a replacement for
Araujo, who started in his role in 2011.  The overhaul is part of a broad cost-reduction effort that
began more than a year ago. Nokia Siemens, based in Espoo,
Finland, started a program in late 2011 to cut 17,000 jobs, or
about 23 percent of the total, to be more competitive against
 Ericsson AB (ERICB)  and Chinese rivals such as Huawei Technologies Co.  “The planned new set-up will allow us to operate in a
simpler and more agile way and hence at lower cost,” Rene Svendsen-Tune, head of Nokia Siemens’s customer operations in
Europe and Latin America, said in the memo. The plan is set to
be implemented by July 1.  Nokia Siemens has a “fairly complicated and inflexible”
structure in Europe and Latin America, Svendsen-Tune said. The
changes will improve customer relationships, he said.  The company will start talks with labor representatives
over an unspecified number of job cuts that will result from the
revamp, according to the memo. The cuts are part of those
announced in 2011, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  “While we have made remarkable progress, we also recognize
that there is more to do in order to increase efficiency,” the
company said in its statement.  Ownership Changes?  Nokia Siemens is on track to exceed its target of saving 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) in operating expenses by the end of
this year, Nokia Siemens Chief Executive Officer Rajeev Suri
said in February. The company aims to seize growth opportunities
when the market is growing and focus on improving margins where
industry revenue doesn’t increase, he said.  Nokia fell 0.5 percent to close at 2.91 euros in Helsinki
trading. Siemens added 1.3 percent to 82.29 euros on the
Frankfurt exchange.  The cost-cut effort is taking place as Espoo-based Nokia
and Munich-based Siemens are considering options for the six-year-old partnership, with Siemens pushing for an exit. One
scenario under discussion was a joint buyout of Siemens’s 50
percent stake by Nokia and a strategic partner, people familiar
with the situation said in February.  Siemens’s efforts to exit have accelerated since Marco Schroeter, the venture’s chief financial officer, was pushed out
in February, according to a person familiar with the situation.
Schroeter is close to Siemens CFO Joe Kaeser, the person said.
The appointment of former operating chief Samih Elhage in
Schroeter’s place has led to a deterioration in relations
between Siemens and Nokia, the person said.  James Etheridge, a Nokia spokesman, and Wolfram Trost, a
Siemens spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  