-- Nomura to Hire Fixed-Income Staff in U.S., Europe, Asia
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-05-23T07:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/nomura-to-increase-fixed-income-staff-abroad-while-cutting-costs.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s largest
securities firm, said it plans to increase fixed-income sales
staff in Asia, the Americas and Europe even as it continues to
cut costs.  Chief Operating Officer Atsushi Yoshikawa revealed the
plans at a meeting with investors in  Tokyo  yesterday, without
giving numbers or a timeframe. The additions will be mainly made
through hiring as well as the reassignment of existing staff,
Yoshikawa told  Bloomberg News  after a press briefing. The firm
later announced the hiring of two managing directors for foreign
exchange and interest-rates sales in the Americas.  Nomura has been focusing on fixed income to spark a profit
recovery outside of Japan as Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai
implements his $1 billion cost-reduction program. The Tokyo-based bank posted a pretax loss abroad last quarter, even as a
domestic  stock market  boom fueled fees and commissions that
helped to generate the highest  net income  in seven years.  Yoshikawa said sales staff will be added in areas including
rates, credit, currencies and securitized products. “We’re
often faced with a shortage of staff to reach clients”
including  hedge funds , he told reporters.  Nomura will strengthen  investment banking  in the U.S. by
bolstering coverage of the health and technology industries, he
said. The company will hire if it finds any good bankers as
“there are business opportunities,” he added.  U.S. Recruits  The firm recruited Eric Miller as head of interest-rates
sales for the Americas and Tom Haskins as head of foreign
exchange sales for the region, it said in a statement. Miller
was most recently at Credit Suisse Group AG and Haskins worked
for Morgan Stanley, according to Nomura.  The effects of the cost-cutting initiative will begin to be
seen in the second half of the year ending March, Nomura said
earlier in a presentation to investors. The bank targets 50
billion yen ($486 million) in overseas pretax profit from
 wholesale  operations by the year ending March 2016, it said.  Yoshikawa also said the company is considering alliances
with several potential partners in  Asia  outside of Japan. Nomura
is working on about 10 equity offerings in the region and the
pipeline is expanding, he said.  Nomura raised a goal for retail assets under management to
100 trillion yen by March 2016, it said in the presentation. The
bank achieved the previous target of 90 trillion yen last month
as investors flocked to Japanese stocks amid unprecedented
monetary easing by the central bank.  The stock rally took a hit today, with the benchmark  Topix
Index (TPX)  tumbling 6.9 percent, the most since March 2011, after
government bond yields spiked and a report showed Chinese
manufacturing shrank. Nomura plunged 8.2 percent, paring this
year’s advance to 75 percent.  Net income more than tripled to 82.4 billion yen in the
three months ended March, the highest since 2006, Nomura
reported last month. Still, its pretax loss from overseas
widened to 42 billion yen from 24.6 billion yen a year earlier,
led by  Europe .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  