-- North Korean Military Envoy Meets Chinese Official Amid Tension
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-05-22T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/north-korean-leader-kim-jong-un-sends-envoy-to-china-correct-.html
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un’s top
military deputy met with a senior Communist Party official in
 China  as ties between the allies showed strain over the North’s
nuclear ambitions and the seizure of a fishing boat.  Choe Ryong Hae, vice marshal of the North Korean military
and head of its political bureau, met yesterday with Wang
Jiarui, head of the party’s international department, said
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei. Hong declined to
give details of Choe’s meeting with Wang or answer a question
about whether the meeting will lead to a China visit by Kim.  Choe is the highest-ranking official to visit China since
Kim succeeded his late father, Kim Jong Il, in December 2011.
North Korea depends on China for fuel oil and consumer goods,
and trade between the two has dropped since Kim’s regime fired a
long-range rocket in December and detonated a nuclear device in
February in defiance of international sanctions.  “It is the young leader’s effort to redress some tension
over the nuclear test and the threatening actions,” Zhu Feng, a
professor of international relations at Peking University, said
by phone yesterday. “Beijing is very irritated.”  China has tightened sanctions on the totalitarian state in
response to international pressure. A Chinese state bank closed
the account of a North Korean lender earlier this month.  State Councilor and foreign policy chief Yang Jiechi last
month pledged “firm commitment” to working with the U.S. to
convince the North to abandon its atomic ambitions. President
 Barack Obama  and Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping will meet in
 California  next month for the first time since Xi took office in
March.  Pointed Out  “China is always committed to the realization of
denuclearization, peace and stability on the Korean peninsula,”
Hong said at a briefing in Beijing yesterday. “China is always
committed to the settlement of the Korean Peninsula issue
through dialog and consultation.’  The trip also comes before a May 31-June 2 security forum
in  Singapore  that will be attended by Asian defense ministers
and U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel.  The envoy was seen off at the airport in Pyongyang
yesterday by Kim Kyok Sik, whom the North’s official Korean
Central News Agency identified in as the regime’s head of the
army’s general staff. Kim was replaced as defense minister last
week by a younger general named Jang Jong Nam.  Second-Highest  Choe, 63, holds the second-highest rank in the North Korean
military after Kim Jong Un. He rose to prominence in October
2010, when Kim Jong Il tapped him to serve as a guardian for his
son and successor.  Kim’s choosing Choe signals that the envoy’s meetings will
be focused on responding to Chinese security concerns instead of
joint economic projects, Cheong Seong Chang, senior research
fellow at the Sejong Institute in Seoul, said in an e-mail.  ‘‘Kim sent the second most powerful person in the military
as his envoy, as a response to China’s desire to talk about the
North Korean nuclear weapons program and its long-range
missiles, rather than bilateral economic ties,” Cheong said.  North Korea on May 21 freed a Chinese fishing vessel and
its crew after the boat’s owner posted comments on his microblog
saying he’d been told to pay a 600,000  yuan  ($97,800) ransom.
China National Radio later said no ransom was paid.  “The releasing of the Chinese boat is another signal that
Pyongyang really knows how irritated China is, so they don’t
want to do anything that would make Beijing turn its back on
North Korea,” Zhu said.  South Korean Foreign Minister Yun Byung Se said May 21 the
North’s “erratic behavior” may be taking a toll on China.  South Korean President Park Geun Hye is in discussions with
the Chinese about Choe’s trip, as well as her own plans to
travel to Beijing next month for summit talks, her office said
in a text message yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in  Seoul  at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  