-- Oaktree Says Banks Stifling Corporate Bond Market: Poland Credit
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-05-22T10:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/oaktree-says-banks-stifling-corporate-bond-market-poland-credit.html
Polish banks and pension funds are
keeping borrowing costs elevated for companies by holding their
debt to maturity and stifling the development of the corporate
bond market,  Oaktree Capital Management LLC (OAK)  said.  Zloty-denominated loans to companies have an average
interest rate of 6 percent, according to central bank data. That
compares with a yield of 2.99 percent on JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
index of Polish government bonds in zloty. Trading volumes on
Warsaw’s Catalyst corporate bond market amount to 5.8 million
zloty ($1.8 million) a day, or 0.5 percent of the stock market,
not enough to get reliable prices for most companies.  “There are very few opportunities to buy debt in Poland,”
Karim Khairallah, a London-based managing director at Oaktree,
which oversees  $26 billion  of corporate debt worldwide, said by
phone on May 20. “Poland needs to broaden its investor base for
corporate bonds from dominant banks and pension funds.”  Companies in the European Union’s biggest eastern economy
are turning to debt as capital requirements for banks limit loan
growth. While swelling to a record, sales of local-currency
bonds amounted to less than 10 percent of their counterparts in
 Poland ’s emerging-market peers  Turkey  and  Russia .  Preferring Stocks  Dollar-denominated  securities  sold by Polish companies
returned 27 percent over the past year, the most among the 37
emerging-market indexes compiled by JPMorgan. Zloty-bond
performance is hard to measure as the debt trades infrequently.  Polish companies offered the equivalent of $1.1 billion in
local-currency bonds since the start of this year, 9 percent of
the amount sold in Turkey and 5 percent of Russia’s total, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Equity sales in Poland raised 15.4
billion zloty this year, almost three times more than those in
Russia and nine times more than in Turkey, the figures show.  Excluding banks, Polish companies sold a record 12.8
billion zloty of debt in 2012, boosting the total outstanding by
31 percent to a record 31.4 billion zloty in December, according
to Fitch Ratings data. That compares with 270.4 billion zloty of
corporate loans on April 30, the latest central bank data show.  Multimedia Polska SA sold 1.04 billion zloty of seven-year
notes on May 10 in the biggest issue ever by a private Polish
company in local currency. Banks bought 46 percent of the bonds,
while pension and mutual funds purchased 45 percent, Chief
Executive Officer Andrzej Rogowski said by phone on May 14.  Needing Change  “The lack of secondary market means that buyers of
corporate debt in fact are giving loans to sellers,” Piotr Nowak, Warsaw-based deputy head of fixed income at PKO TFI SA,
which has 11.4 billion zloty under management, said by e-mail on
May 17. “Lack of vivid secondary market means that companies
need to agree to higher spreads when they are selling debt.”  To spur growth in the corporate bond market, the government
last month proposed regulations to strengthen bondholder rights
while the central bank announced plans to relax collateral rules
for company notes at its repo transactions.  Poland’s central bank will be “proactive” in broadening
collateral at its cash operations to include more corporate
securities, Governor Marek Belka said in Warsaw on April 10. The
European Central Bank has been accepting corporate bonds as
collateral in its refinancing operations since before the credit
crunch in 2008, as long as they have an investment grade.  More Say  The government last month approved  recommendations  to give
more legal heft to bondholders, who under the proposed
legislation would have a say in any significant changes of
issuance conditions or larger investment plans by the issuer.  Poland needs a “clearer” regulatory environment “to give
bondholders comfort that their investments are protected,”
Khairallah at Oaktree said in the interview.  Catalyst, Warsaw Stock Exchange’s trading platform for
corporate bonds, lists notes from PKO Bank Polski SA, Poland’s
biggest lender, and PKN Orlen SA, the biggest oil refiner, as
well as smaller companies and municipalities.  “The only way to intensify trade is to increase number of
new bonds and new issuers,” Piotr Wolinski, deputy head of
Bondspot SA, the Warsaw bourse’s subsidiary in charge of
Catalyst, said in a May 10 interview. “Investors who keep bonds
to maturity may decide to sell when they have alternatives.”  Extra Yield  The additional yield investors demand to hold Poland’s
 dollar-denominated government bonds  rather than U.S. Treasuries
was unchanged at 114 basis points at 12:26 p.m. in Warsaw,
according to indexes compiled by JPMorgan. The extra yield on
the government’s 10-year zloty notes over German bunds narrowed
six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 189.  The zloty strengthened 0.1 percent to 4.1786 per euro,
paring this year’s decline to 2.3 percent. The cost of insuring
Polish debt against non-payment with  credit-default swaps 
dropped two basis points to 75, up seven points from this year’s
low on May 10, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Poland’s central bank has lowered its main  interest rate  by
175 basis points since November to a record 3 percent this
month. The easing has reduced the three-month  Warsaw interbank
offered rate , or Wibor, the benchmark for floating-rate
corporate notes to an all-time low of 2.8 percent today from as
much as 5.14 percent in July.  “We remain optimistic that the reluctance to trade will
disappear,” Juan de Porras Aguirre, a Warsaw-based board member
of Bank Zachodni WBK SA, the Polish unit of Banco Santander SA,
said on May 15. “Falling interest rates and new stronger
capital requirements for banks reduce the attraction of keeping
corporate securities to maturity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  