-- Fight Over Obama’s Fannie Mae Pick Watt Risks Housing Deal
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-05-22T15:09:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/obama-s-fannie-mae-pick-watt-faces-fight-imperiling-housing-deal.html
As a  North Carolina  congressman, Mel Watt has tried to arm struggling homeowners with a legal
“sledgehammer” against lenders and expand the ranks of people
eligible to cut their mortgage principal.  Those positions help explain why President Barack Obama has
nominated Watt, a Democrat, to oversee  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie
Mac , the mortgage companies seized by the government in 2008.
They also underscore Watt’s uphill climb to gain support from
the Senate Republicans he’ll need to win confirmation.  Watt’s record hasn’t always put him at odds with big banks,
since his district includes the headquarters of  Bank of America 
Corp. as well as thousands of homeowners facing foreclosure. He
counts financial firms among his top campaign donors. Still, the
nomination is inflaming tensions around housing policy as
Republicans and Democrats attempt to jointly redesign the U.S.
mortgage system and avoid future taxpayer bailouts.  “The political fight that’s going to be necessary to push
this through the committee is going to so sour relationships,
that you are just not going to be able to reach across the aisle
on a housing finance bill,” said  Jaret Seiberg , an analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC’s Washington Research Group.  Partisan wrangling over Watt could “grind everything to a
halt,” Seiberg said.  Republicans aren’t in a hurry to see Watt replace Edward J. DeMarco, the current head of the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,
the independent regulator with oversight of  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac. DeMarco has resisted pressure from the Obama
administration and consumer advocates to allow the two companies
to cut the principal balance on troubled loans, saying that
would hurt taxpayers more than it would help homeowners.  First Choice  Obama’s first choice to replace DeMarco was former North
Carolina banking commissioner  Joseph Smith , 63. Smith withdrew
in 2011 amid strong Republican opposition to his candidacy.
Senator  Richard Shelby  of Alabama, then the top Republican on
the Banking Committee, said Smith would be “a tool” of the
White House on mortgage policy.  “It would be a shame if principal reduction turned into a
litmus test for FHFA the way Roe v. Wade is for Supreme Court
nominees,” said Julia Gordon, director for housing finance and
policy at the Center for American Progress, an advocacy group
with ties to the  Democratic Party .  Republicans who are poring through records of Watt’s
history in Congress are questioning his qualifications as well
as his politics. “This is a job that requires a very
knowledgeable technocrat,” said Senator  Bob Corker  of
Tennessee, also a Banking Committee member. “This is no job for
a politician.”  ‘Fair Shot’  Watt said in an interview that it would be “putting the
cart before the horse” for him to give specifics on what he’d
do as FHFA director, adding that his congressional positions
wouldn’t necessarily translate into a regulator’s portfolio. He
said he’d draw on his background practicing real estate law in
Charlotte as well as his legislative work on housing matters.  When the Banking Committee takes up his nomination as early
as next month, “All I’d be asking for is a fair shot and
consideration of not labels but experiences,” Watt said.  If Watt is able to win confirmation he would assume
oversight at a pivotal time for the two government-sponsored
enterprises, which provide liquidity to the housing market by
packaging loans into securities on which they guarantee payments
of principal and interest.  Record Profits  While the FHFA director has the power to set and modify
terms for the 50 percent of existing U.S. mortgages owned or
backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, lawmakers are crafting
plans to wind down the companies. At the same time, the
rebounding housing market, which has turned around the
companies’ financial condition, could sap momentum for change.
Both are posting record profits after drawing $187.5 billion in
taxpayer aid to stay afloat.  The companies’ future “will be decided not so much by the
head of the agency, but by Congress and the administration,”
 Brian Gardner , senior vice president for Washington research at
Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Inc., said in an interview. “Whoever is
at FHFA, their views will be that of the administration.”  Republicans have been critical of the administration for
nominating Watt without sending Congress a comprehensive housing
finance plan. In February 2011, the Treasury Department offered
a “white paper” with three options for restructuring Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac without offering details on a preference.  ‘Gather Dust’  “I would like to have the opportunity to speak to you
about this later to find out if the administration plans on
doing anything with their white paper besides allowing it to
gather dust,” House Financial Services Committee Chairman  Jeb Hensarling , a Texas Republican, said to Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew at a hearing today.  Watt’s personal history informs his positions on housing,
according to his friend Dennis Rash, who retired as a senior
vice president at Bank of America.  “I have no doubt that Mel has tended toward the side that
would open the credit doors to homeownership and would be proud
of that as someone who was reared in modest circumstances,”
said Rash, who met Watt while they were working to revitalize a
neighborhood in North Carolina.  Watt grew up outside Charlotte in a house without running
water or electricity, raised by his mother who worked as a maid.
After attending the University of North Carolina at  Chapel Hill 
and Yale Law School he joined Ferguson Chambers & Sumter, a
Charlotte-based civil-rights law firm.  Stevie Wonder  One of his biggest cases was representing the singer
Stevie Wonder in 1973 in a lawsuit over a car crash that left
Wonder, a passenger in the car, in a coma for several days. The
case was settled, according to Watt.  He began his political career in the 1980s as campaign
manager for Harvey Gantt, the first African-American to serve as
mayor of Charlotte. Watt’s supporters say that since he was
elected to Congress in 1992, he has steered a middle ground
between banks and consumers.  His district has pockets of poverty as well as the second-largest concentration of the banking industry next to the  New
York  district that contains  Wall Street , according to Watt’s
website. From 2011 to 2012, Watt’s four largest campaign
contributors were in the financial services industry, including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , New York Life Insurance Co.,  American
Express (AXP)  Co. and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , records show.  Debit Fee  He supported Bank of America in 2011 by declining to join
other Democrats who slammed the lender for trying to charge its
customers a $5 monthly fee on their  debit cards , a plan the bank
quickly shelved. In 2009, Watt came under scrutiny by the Office
of Congressional Ethics when he withdrew a proposal for more
stringent regulations on auto dealers after a series of
fundraisers with financial lobbyists. He was cleared.  Watt hasn’t taken the industry’s side on other matters. He
co-sponsored the 2009 law that imposed limits on fees and
contracts for credit cards, and a bill setting mortgage
standards to protect consumers against predatory lending that
eventually became part of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  Watt co-sponsored a 2009 bill that would have given judges
the power to cut a homeowner’s mortgage principal in bankruptcy
proceedings, a proposal dubbed “cram-down” by banks and bond
investors who opposed and defeated it. The measure would have
given borrowers a “sledgehammer in their back pocket” when
negotiating with their lenders, he said at the time.  Fiscal ‘Cliff’  In December Watt signed a letter to Obama urging him to
include in his budget talks with Republicans a provision that
would require Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce principal on
some of the loans they guarantee.  “He’s shown an ability to both work with and stand up to
the financial institutions,” said Michael Calhoun, president of
the Durham, North Carolina-based Center for Responsible Lending,
a consumer advocacy organization.  In naming Watt, Obama is responding to months of mounting
pressure from housing activists and groups including the
Congressional Black Caucus, which Watt led from 2005 to 2006.
The groups want the president to install someone who will put
more emphasis on using Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s influence
in the mortgage market to aid financially struggling borrowers.  Those groups say DeMarco, a career civil servant appointed
on an interim basis, has focused too heavily on protecting the
companies’ bottom line.  Confirmation Math  Democrats, including those who serve on the House Financial
Services Committee, the panel handling housing issues, said he
will advocate a balance between public and private support for
homeownership.  Watt “will help everyone to understand why reform is
necessary but also we’ve got to balance the government subsidy
for some private involvement,” said Representative Maxine Waters of California, the committee’s senior Democrat.  To win the 60 votes needed for confirmation, Watt must gain
support from at least five Republicans if he’s backed by all 55
senators who caucus with the Democrats. So far, Senator Richard
Burr of North Carolina has been the only Republican to back him.  Democrats are reaching out to Republicans from states with
high foreclosure rates in the hope that some of them will break
ranks. Meanwhile, Republican leaders have been sowing doubts.  Senator  Mike Crapo  of Idaho, the ranking Republican on the
Banking Committee, said he is “very concerned” about Obama’s
choice of Watt.  “That nomination is supposed to be an independent
person,” he said in an interview. “We really don’t need a
political nominee there right now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  