-- Oil Pipelines to Drive Canadian Economy Like 1800s Railway Track
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-05-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/oil-pipelines-to-drive-canadian-economy-like-1800s-railway-track.html
Canada , which depended on railroads to
build the nation in the 1880s, is counting on pipelines to drive
future economic growth,  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  Chief Executive Officer
Al Monaco said.  “Pipelines are very similar to railroads,” Monaco said at 
the Bloomberg Canada Economic Summit in Toronto yesterday. “When 
you really get down to it, Canada is an export-driven resource 
economy. This is our foundation.”  The nation’s oil trade, which according to  Statistics
Canada  rose 7 percent to about C$73 billion ($71 billion) last
year, is set to grow faster than the total economy. Pipelines
already carry 15 percent of Canadian exports in the form of
crude, mostly to U.S. markets. Enbridge and  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) 
plan to spend more than a combined C$50 billion to expand
networks to the Pacific and Atlantic coasts.  The completion of a transnational railroad line in 1885
opened up much of what is now  Alberta , Saskatchewan and Manitoba
for settlement, helping to establish Canada as one of the
world’s largest agricultural exporters. Pipeline companies are
proposing conduits that would help transport millions of barrels
of new production from  oil-sands  projects in Alberta to
refineries in eastern Canada, markets in the U.S. and export
facilities in Western Canada.  Building pipelines that will move crude from Canada to new
markets is the most important driver for the economy, according
to Toronto-based consultancy En-Pro International Inc. The gap
between Canadian crude prices and U.S. and global benchmarks has
widened in the past year as production overwhelms existing
pipeline capacity, depressing energy stocks and reducing
government royalties and taxes on oil exports.  Commodity Driver  Production of bitumen, which is refined into fuels, is
poised to double from last year to 3.8 million barrels a day by
2022, according to Alberta’s Energy Resources Conservation
Board.  “Oil is the commodity driving the economy,” Roger
McKnight, senior petroleum analyst at En-Pro, said in a May 16
phone interview. “We’re a commodity producing country and we
can’t hide from that. Pipelines define who we are as an
economy.”  Canada exported C$100 billion of oil and natural gas last
year, said Monaco. That figure will grow at a faster pace than
the nation’s economy as production of bitumen continues to
expand,  Doug Porter , chief economist for BMO Capital Markets,
said in an interview in Toronto yesterday.  ‘Unity’ Symbol?  Pipelines may become “symbols of unity” like the cross-Canada railroad that enabled Western grain farmers to get their
wheat to market, Frank McKenna, deputy chairman at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said yesterday at the summit. New oil conduits
“would create a national network of energy.”  Enbridge has proposed to increase oil transportation
capacity through projects including the C$6 billion Northern
Gateway from Alberta to Canada’s Pacific Coast. TransCanada is
lobbying for approval of the Keystone XL pipeline from the oil
sands to the U.S. Gulf Coast and proposing to convert part of an
existing gas line to carry oil to Canada’s Atlantic Coast.  Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP)  of Houston is considering
more than doubling capacity to 890,000 barrels a day on its
existing Trans Mountain line from Alberta to  Vancouver .  New pipelines will cost more and take longer to be built as
operators including Enbridge put more effort into winning public
support rather than focusing solely on regulatory approval,
Monaco said.  ‘Value Destruction’  The current lack of pipelines is depressing Canadian crude
prices and energy stocks. Western Canadian Select was  $21.50 a
barrel less  than the U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is C$25 billion a year in value destruction,”
McKenna said. There is also C$1 trillion in foregone gross
domestic product over the next 20 years and C$300 billion in
lost  tax revenue  during the same period.  Meanwhile, Canadian energy stocks have underperformed U.S.
peers by almost 14 percentage points in the past year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rail continues to play a role moving Canada’s natural
resources, with shipments rising from the oil sands and shale
formations as proposed pipelines are delayed.  The pipeline miracle also may not deliver all its promises,
as production in the U.S. also increases, said Michal Moore, a
professor of energy economics at the University of Calgary.  “Doubling output from the oil sands is not realistic,”
Moore said in an interview. “Oil production in Alberta is
likely not going to be an endlessly-expanding vista.”  In the meantime, Enbridge and others will race to meet the
demand as fast as they can, in the same way railway barons a
century ago chased export markets for Canadian grains and logs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Toronto at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Penty in Toronto at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  