-- Oklahoma Neighborhood Bands Together to Survive Tornado
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-05-22T03:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/oklahoma-neighborhood-bands-together-to-survive-tornado.html
As a mile-wide tornado chewed across
Moore,  Oklahoma , Sonnia Conway trusted her life to a bathtub at
her house on Southwest 14th Street, squeezing in with pillows,
blankets and her four dogs.  She didn’t join the 30 other neighbors who rushed to Alma
and Harley McLaughlin’s storm shelter down the street. The
McLaughlin’s don’t allow pets and Conway wouldn’t have left her
dogs or cats anyway, she said.  “It was a miracle,” said Conway, 47. “Trees on each side
of my house were destroyed, but the house was still standing. It
was like the hand of God protecting us.”  The neighborhood of single-story houses traced a range of
damage and emotions after the most powerful of three tornadoes
that have struck Moore since 1999. Six blocks away, homes were
obliterated by winds of more than 200 miles an hour (322
kilometers an hour).  Among those sheltered at the McLaughlin’s was Glenda
Tannehill’s grandson, a pupil at Plaza Towers Elementary School,
where students numbered among the 24 killed by the storm.  “We were lucky to get in before it hit,” said Tannehill,
53.  Mike Blazer, 45, another in the storm shelter, rushed out
after the twister passed to Plaza Towers, where he and his wife
found his son Joey.  “The school was leveled,” Blazer said. He said he helped
rescue some students trapped there.  Neighborhood Heroes  Glenda Tannehill, 53, said the McLaughlin’s were heroes for
opening their storm shelter. Rita McLaughlin would have none of
such talk.  “We’re here for them, and we know they would do anything
to help us,” she said.  William Diggs, 28, had scooped up his three sons, ages 3, 2
and 10 months, and rushed to the McLaughlin’s. He couldn’t keep
from peeking out the shelter door as the storm passed to the
northwest, Tannehill said.  Diggs, who spent much of yesterday cleaning up his yard and
helping his neighbors, said he’d rode out  Hurricane Andrew  in
 Florida . The 1992 storm that struck as a Category 5, the most
powerful, caused $25 billion damage in the U.S.  “Andrew was a little bit more vicious,” Diggs said.  Eduardo Perez, 21, chose to stay in his house a few doors
from the McLaughlins, hoping to record the storm on his iPhone.
Perez said he abandoned the notion as the storm grew closer and
fiercer.  “I wanted to record all of it, but got scared,” he said.  Afterward, Perez said he rode his bicycle to a neighborhood
closer to the center of the storm’s path. It was a scene of
crushed cars, twisted tree trunks and houses reduced to their
frames, he said. He said he helped two elderly people get to
hospitals.  Conway said she stayed in her bathtub after the tornado
passed, while her dogs Gigi, Onyx, Yorkie and Chapel, who had
whined through the storm, grew quiet.  “I didn’t want to get out of the bathtub,” she said. “I
knew a lot of people had gotten hurt or killed. I felt
blessed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Moore, Oklahoma at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  