-- Oklahomans Find Solace in Tidying Plots of Tornado-Torn Cemetery
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2013-05-22T19:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/oklahomans-find-solace-in-tidying-plots-of-tornado-torn-cemetery.html
Courtney Green planned to spend today
celebrating her ninth wedding anniversary.  Instead, she and her husband spent it cleaning up debris in
a cemetery with hundreds of volunteers who streamed into Moore,
 Oklahoma , as the city dug out from a deadly tornado.  “When you have these terrible disasters, it really
restores your faith in humanity to know that people are good,
they want to help,” said Green, 31, who lives in Norman.  Moore officials posted plans yesterday on their website for
a cleanup at the cemetery. The event tapped a vein of support
from residents in surrounding communities who had been looking
to help since the May 20 tornado. By 8:30 a.m., turnout swamped
preparations, Parks and Recreation Director Todd Jenson said.
Many people walked more than a mile from a mustering point to
the cemetery, carrying tools and trash bags.  “It’s unbelievable -- there’s a line to get into the
cemetery to clean up,” Jenson said. “That says it all.”  Other organizations provided free food for the workforce,
which fanned out to pick up debris in surrounding neighborhoods.
The worst-hit areas were still off limits except to residents.  Tangible Benefits  Hands-on labor is more satisfying and can have more impact
than donating money, said Cody Scott, a volunteer with the
nonprofit group Love OKC.  “If I give you a hug and ask about your problems, it’ll
last a lot longer than giving you $5 that’ll buy you one meal,”
Scott, 30, said.  Moore Cemetery  lies just north of the Plaza Towers
neighborhood, which lay directly in the storm’s path. The
twister, topping the National Weather Service severity scale,
cut a 17-mile-long swath through the town of 55,000, destroying
Plaza Towers Elementary School and a hospital. Winds exceeded
200 miles an hour (322 kilometers an hour), killed two dozen
people and left the city a shambles.  The cemetery, which is more than 100 years old, is one of
two owned by Moore, according to its website. About 75 trees
were damaged on its 20 acres and the ground was littered with
debris.  Working under a crystal-blue sky with a light breeze, the
volunteers picked tufts of home insulation out of the chain-link
fence and tossed twigs and wood scraps into trash bags. A front-end loader and other heavy equipment handled larger items and a
pickup truck relayed trash bags to dump trucks idling by the
curb.  Tree Remembered  Sandra Factor, 67, brought her husband and granddaughter to
help. She used to live in the destroyed neighborhood and four of
her five children attended Plaza Towers Elementary School. Her
former home was probably destroyed, and she was left to wonder
about a tree that marked the field at the elementary school
where her husband coached youth football, she said.  “To know that’s all gone, it kind of touches your heart,”
she said.  The turnout wasn’t surprising, said Trent Bettis, a 23-year-old student.  “I know everyone really wanted to come down on that first
day,” he said.  Sara Coleman, a 21-year-old student, said she felt
compelled to come after hearing about the event through her
church in Oklahoma City.  “I’m sure they would do it for me,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Moore, Oklahoma at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  