-- Oklahoma’s Senators Opposed 2011 FEMA Funds, Sandy Aid
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-05-22T19:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/oklahoma-s-senators-opposed-2011-fema-funds-sandy-aid.html
Oklahoma’s two Republican senators,
 Tom Coburn  and  James Inhofe , may be in an awkward position:
their tornado-devastated state needs help from the U.S. disaster
relief agency whose plea for funds they rejected in 2011.  Coburn and Inhofe  voted  in September 2011 against a bill to
provide $7 billion to help finance the  Federal Emergency
Management Agency ’s relief fund. Coburn unsuccessfully sought to
reduce other federal programs to pay for it.  “We have plenty of areas we can cut,” Coburn said at the
time. He and Inhofe also voted “no” in January when Congress
completed a $60.2 billion aid plan for victims of  Hurricane
Sandy  in the northeastern U.S.  The May 20 tornado cut a swath of devastation 20 miles long
that ran through Moore, a city of about 55,000 south of Oklahoma
City. Authorities said at least 24 people were killed, and
Governor Mary Fallin said entire blocks were wiped out.
President  Barack Obama  called it “one of the most destructive
tornadoes in history.”  The day after the storm, Coburn’s spokesman,  John Hart ,
said the senator wanted any new disaster-relief aid for Oklahoma
to be covered by cuts elsewhere in the  federal budget . The
stance drew little support from fellow lawmakers.  Coburn addressed his position in an interview today on the
“CBS This Morning” program. “Any time we do an emergency
supplemental bill we ought to pay for it,” he said, adding that
his constituents “don’t want us to charge our everyday living
expenses to their kids.”  Sandy Delay  A similar demand by some  House Republicans  delayed federal
relief for two months after Hurricane Sandy devastated parts of
 New Jersey , New York and Connecticut on Oct. 29 and killed more
than 100 people. Federal disaster aid typically is passed as
emergency funding that isn’t offset by reductions in other
 government spending .  “This is not a time for political retribution,” New
Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , who criticized fellow
Republicans over the delay in providing disaster aid after
Hurricane Sandy, said today while urging swift aid for Oklahoma.
In times of natural disasters, he told reporters, “Americans
stand up for Americans.”  Inhofe told  MSNBC  yesterday that the Hurricane Sandy aid
package was “totally different” than what might have to be
provided to Oklahoma residents. The Sandy bill “had things in
the Virgin Islands, they were fixing roads there, they were
putting roofs on houses in Washington, D.C.,” he said.  ‘Exploiting’ Tragedy  “Everybody was getting in and exploiting the tragedy that
took place” in the Northeast, Inhofe said. “That won’t happen
in Oklahoma.”  Lawmakers said the FEMA funding issue is unlikely to come
up soon in Congress because the agency says it has enough money
to pay for immediate recovery efforts. The fund’s balance is
$11.6 billion, said FEMA spokesman Dan Watson.  “If any money is needed, we are going to take care of it;
this is an emergency,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, told reporters.  The House Appropriations Committee today voted to add $6.2
billion to the disaster relief fund in the 2014 fiscal year that
starts Oct. 1. The provision was part of a $38.9 billion
spending measure the panel approved to finance the Homeland
Security Department next year.  Senator  John McCain , a critic of wasteful government
spending, said Congress should approve disaster aid without any
strings attached if budget offsets aren’t possible.  ‘Laudable’ View  “I respect Senator Coburn’s view,” said McCain, an
 Arizona  Republican. “It’s laudable and I would support such a
thing, but if we can’t, the important thing is to get assistance
to these people as soon as possible.”  “I don’t think disasters of this type should be offset”
by other budget cuts, House Appropriations Committee Chairman
Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican, told reporters. “We have an
obligation to help these people.”  The 2011 debate over giving FEMA an additional $7 billion
occurred after the showdown in Congress over extending the
government’s borrowing authority. Congress eventually approved a
lower amount of disaster aid.  Skepticism among Republicans about the Hurricane Sandy aid
package led House Speaker  John Boehner  to cancel a scheduled
Jan. 1 vote on it. That led to a chorus of criticism from
Democrats and Republicans from the region. Christie called
fellow Republicans in Congress “know-nothings” and blamed
Boehner for the delay.  Eventual Passage  Congress passed the first installment of federal aid for
Sandy victims on Jan. 4. Coburn, Inhofe and McCain  voted  against
the $60.2 billion package Congress completed on Jan. 28.  Coburn “has had the same position on disaster aid offsets
since the Oklahoma City bombing” in 1995, Hart said in the e-mail, referring to the attack on a federal building that killed
168 people.  Coburn “will not change his longstanding position,” Hart
said in a later e-mailed statement. He said the senator opposed
prior disaster-aid bills because such funding shouldn’t be used
to pay for a “wish list of parochial or backlogged priorities
that have nothing to do with helping victims.”  Coburn, re-elected to his second term in 2010, has said he
won’t run again for the Senate in 2016.  Boehner said yesterday, “We will work with the
administration to make sure they have the resources they need to
help the people of Oklahoma.”  The speaker, an Ohio Republican, cut off questioning at a
news conference when reporters pressed him about any Republican
demands to offset new emergency funds with spending cuts.  Calling FEMA  Fallin, a Republican, said in a  press release  and a message
posted on Twitter that individuals and business owners who need
help can call FEMA at 1-800-621-FEMA.  During four years in Congress before becoming governor in
2011, Fallin voted in favor of a 2007 emergency supplemental
spending measure that included disaster-relief funds for Gulf
Coast areas devastated by  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005.  Three of Oklahoma’s all-Republican five-member House
delegation voted against aid for Hurricane Sandy victims at
least once in January.  Freshmen Markwayne Mullin and Jim Bridenstine voted on Jan.
4 against temporarily raising the government’s flood-insurance
borrowing authority to allow continued payment of property-damage claims by Hurricane Sandy victims. Oklahoma Republicans
Tom Cole,  Frank Lucas  and James Lankford voted for the measure.
Moore is in Cole’s district.  On Jan. 15, Lankford joined Bridenstine and Mullin in
voting against the $60.2 billion aid package for Sandy victims
that was supported by Cole and Lucas.  ‘His Community’  Representative  Nita Lowey  of New York, the top Democrat on
the House Appropriations Committee, said that while several
members of the Oklahoma delegation had voted against aid for
Hurricane Sandy, “Tom Cole voted for it and it’s his
community” that was struck by yesterday’s tornado.  “I don’t want to spend a lot of time in funding fights
here,” Cole said today on “CBS This Morning.” “My objective
is to make sure the people get the help they need.”  Senator  Jeff Sessions  of Alabama, the top Republican on the
Budget Committee, said in an interview that emergency spending
should be approved without offsets “if you can’t do it under
your existent budgetary limits.” Still, he said he favored
finding budget cuts when approving disaster aid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  