-- Homex Says Rating Downgrade, Bank Lawsuits Spur Bond Default
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-05-22T22:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/homex-says-rating-downgrade-bank-lawsuits-trigger-bond-default.html
Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*) ,  Mexico ’s
biggest homebuilder by sales, said credit-rating downgrades and
lawsuits from  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  over
derivatives contracts have put the company in default on peso-denominated bonds.  The default affects 11.7 million pesos ($947,000) in senior
guaranteed local-currency notes, Homex said today in a U.S.
regulatory filing. Homex’s benchmark dollar bonds due in 2020
sank 3.16 cents to 36.94 cents on the dollar at 4 p.m. in Mexico
City, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Homex shares fell
6.6 percent to 8.84 pesos today.  Fitch Ratings cut Homex’s rating to CCC on April 30, citing
the company’s first-quarter results. In a complaint filed May 9,
Barclays said Homex failed to make required transfers of $1.7
million to the bank in April as collateral to cover potential
losses, triggering a default. Barclays said Homex was obligated
to pay 536.6 million pesos for the early termination of the
contract. Credit Suisse is seeking $26.7 million from Homex
after it requested last month that a 2009 agreement be canceled,
the Swiss bank said in a complaint filed in  New York  State
Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  “Certain of the aforementioned 2013 matters arguably have
resulted in an event of default under the terms of the company’s
senior guaranteed Notes,” Homex said in the  filing .  Brandon Ashcraft, a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment
on the Homex statement. Drew Benson, a Credit Suisse spokesman,
also declined to comment.  Urbi Default  Bonds sold by Mexico’s biggest homebuilders have plunged
this year as a shift in government policy to promote more
capital-intensive apartments in urban areas over homes in
commuter towns depleted their cash. Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB
and Corp. Geo SAB defaulted on bonds last month and have hired
firms to advise them on possible restructurings.  To raise cash, Homex on April 19 agreed to sell its stake
in two prisons to companies controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim . The company’s cash and equivalents tumbled 94 percent in
the first three months of the year.  “I thought they were the one that was most likely to
survive because they had the prison business,” Guillermo Rodriguez, a money manager who helps oversees about $6 billion
at Corp. Actinver SAB, said in a telephone interview from Mexico
City. “Everything is suggesting” the company will have to
restructure its debt, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  