-- Honda Sets Growth Plan as Plane Venture Nears Final Test
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-05-22T10:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/honda-sets-growth-plan-as-plane-venture-nears-final-test.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  will boost staffing
at its aircraft unit by as much as 50 percent as it expands
production of the new HondaJet to about 90 a year to compete
with business-jet makers Cessna and  Embraer SA. (EMBR3)   Honda Aircraft Co. will add 300 to 400 staff in the coming
years to the 800 already employed in development and production
of the $4.5 million plane that can seat as many as seven,
Michimasa Fujino, chief Executive officer of the Greensboro,
North Carolina-based unit, said in an interview in Geneva. The
plane should gain regulatory approval late next year, he said.  First HondaJet deliveries have slipped a year on delays
with the HF120 turbofan engine built by a joint venture of
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and Honda and the engine is now due to gain
regulatory approval by year’s end. Several HondaJets are flying,
although trials to win the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration’s approval will only commence once the motor has
been endorsed.  “We are using this time to optimize the production
processes so the initial ramp-up will be much better,” Fujino
said at the Ebace business-aviation expo. “It is similar to an
automobile line.”  Building of the first customer airplane with its over-wing-mounted engines to reduce noise has already started and a
handful should be completed next year, Fujino said. The first
operators will be in the U.S., and Europe could follow soon
after, he said.  Larger Cabin  Honda is competing for sales with established manufacturers
such as  Textron Inc.’s (TXT)  Cessna, the largest builder of  business
jets , and Brazil’s Embraer. Fujino said the HondaJet’s engine
arrangement allows for a larger cabin than rivals and greater
 fuel efficiency .  Honda Aircraft, which has booked more than 100 plane
orders, remains optimistic about the market evolution. “The
annual growth rate in business jet demand is steadily
increasing,” Fujino said. “If you look at the next 10 years,
we have a good trend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  