-- London Attack Highlights Woolwich as Terrorism Trial Center
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o ,   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-05-22T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/london-attack-highlights-woolwich-as-terrorism-trial-center.html
An attack with a knife and cleaver
that left one man described as a British soldier dead in
southeast London struck at the heart of an area that’s become
the center of terrorism trials in the U.K.  The victim was attacked just after 2 p.m. yesterday outside
a military barracks in the Woolwich neighborhood of southeast
London. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  cut short a visit to
Paris to fly back to London, saying there are “strong
indications” the murder was a terrorist incident. French
President  Francois Hollande  and a U.K. lawmaker both initially
described the dead man as a British soldier.  Along with the more than 200-year-old Royal Artillery 
Barracks, the area is home to nearly all of the U.K.’s terror 
trials. The prosecutions were moved to a high-security court 
less than two miles (three kilometers) from yesterday’s attacks 
around 2006 because of its proximity to  Belmarsh Prison , so  
prisoners don’t have to be transported through London.  “This makes me sick because it shouldn’t happen,” said
James Coombes, who lives in nearby Plumstead. “If it is a
Muslim extremist, I can kind of understand to a certain point,
because they don’t like British soldiers.”  Video footage broadcast by ITV News showed a black man, his
hands covered in blood and holding a cleaver and a knife,
speaking after the attack. “Your people will never be safe,”
he said. “Remove your government, they don’t care about you.”
The man apologized that women had to witness the incident. “In
our lands, our women see the same,” he said.  Suspects Shot  Police said the two suspects were shot by officers and are
being treated in separate hospitals.  The case would be the first actual, rather than planned,
attack in Britain investigated as a possible act of terrorism
since the July 7, 2005, suicide bombings in  London . Fifty-two
people were killed when four Islamist suicide bombers set off
explosions on underground trains and a bus in central London
during the morning rush hour.  U.K. Home Secretary Theresa May held a meeting of the
Cabinet’s emergency committee, known as Cobra, to discuss the
incident last night.  The attack happened at the junction of a busy road cutting
through Woolwich. A 20-story public-housing building stands next
to the site. On the ground, police pitched two tents, and
officers in gray boiler suits scoured the area for evidence.  “A number of weapons were reportedly being used in the
attack, and this included reports of a firearm,” Simon
Letchford, a Metropolitan Police detective, said in a statement.  Serious Crime  Local residents said that while the neighborhood has gone
through its ups and downs, they were shocked that such a serious
crime occurred in the district.  “Woolwich is a very quiet area, but it is going through
regeneration,” Benson Agoha, who has lived there for 10 years
and describes himself as a local blogger, said at a Wetherspoons
pub. “I have been worried in the last few years about some
people’s behavior. How can something like this happen in broad
daylight?”  Another resident, Jonathan Hatton, described it as a
“socially and financially unstable area.”  Two of the most famous landmarks in the district are the
more than 200-year-old barracks and the high-security court a
few miles away.  The original Woolwich Barracks were built in 1776 and in
constant use as the Royal Artillery Headquarters until 2007.
They were renovated and  reopened  in 2010 and have since housed
the King’s Troop Royal Horse Artillery and athletes at last
summer’s  Olympic Games .  Old Bailey  The court first drew prominence in 2006 as terror trials
were moved there from the Old Bailey in central London. In
October of that year a British Muslim pleaded guilty to plotting
to carry out a series of deadly bomb attacks in the U.S. and
U.K., targeting sites including the  New York  Stock Exchange, the
 World Bank  and Citigroup Inc.  Since then, more than two dozen people have been convicted
for terrorism-related offenses at the high-security court in
Woolwich.  As recently as February, three men were found guilty in
Woolwich of planning a U.K. terror attack meant to be more
devastating than the 2005 bombings of London buses and trains.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  