-- Morgan Stanley Said to Seek $4 Billion for Infrastructure
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-05-22T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/morgan-stanley-said-to-seek-4-billion-for-infrastructure.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s infrastructure
investment unit plans to seek $4 billion for a second global
fund, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.  At that size, the new pool from Morgan Stanley
Infrastructure Partners would be the same size as the prior
vehicle from 2008, which originally targeted $2.5 billion. The
New York-based bank plans to officially start raising money in
the coming weeks, said one of the people asking not to be named
because the plans haven’t been made public.  Morgan Stanley, the biggest financial brokerage, is among a
number of firms targeting billions of dollars globally for
investments related to public works. Toronto-based  Brookfield
Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  is seeking $5 billion for a private
infrastructure fund, according to a March  agenda  from New Mexico
State Investment Council. As of the end of the first quarter,
144 unlisted infrastructure funds were trying to gather $93
billion in capital, according to data from London-based research
firm Preqin Ltd.  Matt Burkhard, a spokesman at Morgan Stanley, declined to
comment on the company’s fundraising plans.  Morgan Stanley Infrastructure, which has teams in  North
America ,  Europe  and  Asia , invests in assets that provide public
goods and services in sectors such as transportation,
communications, energy and utilities, according to its website.  Executive Moves  The infrastructure team has experienced turnover since
raising its first fund. Sadek Wahba, its chief investment
officer and global head, left the firm in late 2011, according
to another person familiar with the matter.  Morgan Stanley named Markus Hottenrott, one of three co-heads of the infrastructure business, to run the unit on his own
earlier this month. Anne Valentine Andrews, one of the team’s
co-heads, is leaving the firm, while the other co-head, Jim Wilmott, will stay to run the Europe business.  Morgan Stanley also named Chris Koski as global head of
investment strategy. Koski, who was global head of
infrastructure at the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, joined the
bank’s infrastructure team earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  