-- Morgan Stanley Fixed-Income Veteran deRegt Leaves for New Firm
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-05-22T23:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/morgan-stanley-names-heaney-rooney-to-lead-fixed-income-unit.html
Ken deRegt, a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  veteran
called on to revamp risk-management and the fixed-income trading
business after returning in February 2008, is leaving again to
join investment firm Canarsie Capital Group.  DeRegt, 57, will be succeeded by Michael Heaney, 49, and
Robert Rooney as global co-heads of fixed-income sales and
trading, according to a staff memo from Colm Kelleher, who
oversees investment banking and trading for Morgan Stanley.
Kelleher and Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  sent a
separate memo about deRegt’s departure.  He “proved invaluable in steering the firm through the
financial crisis of 2008 and its aftermath,” Gorman and
Kelleher wrote. “Our fixed-income business is more stable,
focused and better aligned with the rest of the firm than it has
been in some time, due in large part to Ken and his team.”  DeRegt will become a partner at Canarsie Capital, which
will be a Morgan Stanley client, according to the memo from
Gorman and Kelleher. DeRegt’s son works at Canarsie, a firm that
was started in January, according to a person familiar with the
matter who asked not to be identified because he wasn’t
authorized to comment publicly. Attempts to contact Canarsie
Capital’s office and employees weren’t successful.  Heaney, global head of credit sales and trading at Morgan
Stanley, and Rooney, who runs fixed-income sales and trading in
 Europe , take over a business that’s paring risk-weighted assets
and seeking to boost its share of revenue among the largest
fixed-income traders to 8 percent, from 6 percent in 2010.  Stalled Progress  Progress toward that goal has stalled. Morgan Stanley’s
market share of fixed-income trading revenue among the nine
largest global investment banks exceeded 8 percent in the year
ended March 2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In the next
12 months, that figure dropped to less than 6 percent, excluding
accounting charges. The division’s risk-weighted assets fell to
$253 billion in the first quarter from a peak of about $500
billion.  “Ken deRegt’s departure will certainly cause investors to
wonder how much market share of fixed-income and commodities
trading Morgan Stanley can recapture while simultaneously
reducing the regulatory risk-weighted assets of the business,”
said  David Hilder , an analyst at Drexel Hamilton LLC in  New
York , who recommends buying Morgan Stanley stock.  Morgan Stanley’s bond-trading revenue fell 42 percent in
the first quarter, contributing to the biggest drop in total
trading revenue among the largest U.S. banks.  “Given that Michael and Rob worked closely under Ken, I am
confident that they will continue to deliver on the rebuilding
of our fixed-income  franchise ,” Kelleher said in the memo.  Called Back  DeRegt, who first joined Morgan Stanley in 1981, had served
as global head of fixed income for three years when he left in
2000 to work at an investment firm. He was called back in
February 2008 by  John Mack , Morgan Stanley’s then-CEO, to help
the company recover from a $9.4 billion writedown and quarterly
loss that Mack described as “embarrassing.” In January 2011,
the firm tapped deRegt to replace Jack DiMaio as global head of
fixed-income sales and trading.  Rooney, who has been global head of fixed-income client
coverage in addition to running Europe fixed-income since 2009,
joined Morgan Stanley in 1990 and relocated to  London  in 1993.
Heaney, who also has run global credit since 2009, joined the
firm in 1986 in credit research and moved into corporate bond
trading in 1990, according to the memo.  Gorman, 54, who succeeded Mack as CEO in 2010 and added the
chairman title last year, has vowed to raise profitability at
the firm, owner of the world’s biggest brokerage. His plan to
double return on equity from last year’s 5 percent includes
cutting $1.6 billion of costs in the next two years, reducing
capital used by the fixed-income trading business and boosting
pretax margin at the wealth-management division.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net 
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  