-- Mortgage-Bond Yields Guiding Loan Rates Rise to Highest in Year
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-05-22T22:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/mortgage-bond-yields-guiding-loan-rates-rise-to-highest-in-year.html
Yields on  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac
mortgage bonds that guide U.S. home-loan rates climbed to the
highest in almost a year as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Congress the central bank may cut the pace of bond
purchases in the “next few meetings.”  Fannie Mae’s 3 percent, 30-year securities jumped 0.19
percentage point to 2.67 percent as of 4:59 p.m. in New York,
the highest since May 29, 2012, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yields have risen from the record-low 1.97
percent reached in October after the Fed announced it would
start  buying  $40 billion of government-backed housing debt a
month to begin its third round of bond purchases known as
quantitative easing.  The central bank’s bond buying has pushed down  mortgage
rates , helping property prices rally after a five-year housing
slump and boosting homeowner refinancing that’s aided consumers
and banks. Minutes of the Fed’s last meeting also released today
helped fuel speculation that it may pull back on the program.  “It seems to me that the Fed is trying to prepare the
markets for their eventual exit from QE,” Noah Estrin, a
portfolio manager at Greenwich, Connecticut-based hedge fund
Prologue Capital Inc., said in an e-mail. “The market is going
to need to watch the data closely for the timing but I think it
is a wake-up call for those that have been passively
positioned.”  A number of Fed officials said at their gathering ended May
1 that they were willing to taper their debt purchases as early
as the next meeting June 18-19 if economic reports show
“evidence of sufficiently strong and sustained growth,”
according to the minutes. Bernanke told lawmakers today that
“if we see continued improvement, and we have confidence that
that is going to be sustained, in the next few meetings we could
take a step down in our pace of purchases.”  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage rose to 3.51
percent in the week ended May 16, from this year’s low of 3.35
percent two weeks earlier and a nadir of 3.31 percent in
November, according to Freddie Mac surveys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  