-- Los Angeles Gasoline Declines on June Trading, Stockpile Surge
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-05-22T21:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/los-angeles-gasoline-declines-on-june-trading-stockpile-surge.html
Spot gasoline in Los Angeles tumbled
against futures for the first time in four days as the fuel
began trading for June delivery and a government report showed
regional stockpiles jumped last week by the most since January.  Motor gasoline supplies on the West Coast increased by
957,000 barrels, or 3.7 percent, to 270.2 million in the week
ended May 17, the Energy Information Administration, the Energy
Department’s statistical arm, said today. That’s the biggest
weekly rise since Jan. 4 and the highest level in five weeks.  The prompt-month contract for California-blend gasoline, or
Carbob, in Los Angeles, which rolled into June today, weakened
4.5 cents versus July futures traded on the New York Mercantile
Exchange to a premium of 5.5 cents a gallon at 3:58 p.m. New
York time, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The fuel was
previously trading against June Nymex futures, which settled
0.72 cent a gallon above the July contract today.  The outright spot price for Carbob for prompt delivery in
Los Angeles dropped 7.86 cents to $2.8672 a gallon, the least in
three weeks. Regular, unleaded gasoline at pumps in  California 
gained for a third straight week to $4.048 a gallon, the EIA
said May 20.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s 150,000-barrel-a-day Torrance refinery
reported flaring today related to a maintenance turnaround that
includes work on catalytic hydrodesulfurization, sulfur
recovery, crude, alkylation and coker units, Gesuina Paras, an
Exxon spokeswoman in Torrance said.  The turnaround was scheduled to be completed next week, a
person familiar with the work schedule said March 5.  San Francisco  Carbob gasoline in San Francisco, which also rolled into
June, dropped 4.5 cents against futures to a premium of 11
cents, its lowest level in three days.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in San Francisco weakened
by 8 cents against ultra-low-sulfur diesel futures on the Nymex
to a discount of 9 cents a gallon, the lowest level since
January. CARB diesel in Los Angeles slipped against futures for
a second day, losing 0.12 cent to a discount of 5.5 cents a
gallon, the least since Dec. 10.  In  Portland ,  Oregon ,  conventional, 84-octane gasoline 
weakened against futures for the eighth straight day, losing 1
cent to a premium of 16.5 cents a gallon, the lowest level in
more than three weeks. The premium for  low-sulfur diesel  there
shrank by 3.5 cents to 9.5 cents a gallon above futures.  The oil-products tanker NCC Reem arrived at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Cherry
Point refinery today,  IHS Inc. (IHS)  data show. The tanker was
chartered by  Phillips 66 (PSX)  to deliver oil products to the U.S.
West Coast from South Korea, according to ship-fixture data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Products Shipments  The oil-products tanker Atlantic Graze was scheduled to
arrive in Honolulu on May 31 after stopping in South Korea, and
the Voge Dignity was traveling north off the California coast
bound for  Vancouver , IHS data show.  The  3-2-1 crack spread  of Alaska North Slope crude, Carbob
in Los Angeles and CARB diesel in Los Angeles narrowed for a
second day, losing 87 cents to $15.79 a barrel at 4:24 p.m.  New
York  time. The spread, a rough measure of refining margins, is
down from this year’s high of $29.09 on Feb. 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  