-- Most German Stocks Fall After 11th Straight DAX Record
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-05-22T07:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/most-german-stocks-fall-after-11th-straight-dax-record.html
Most  German stocks  declined, after
the longest winning streak for the benchmark  DAX (DAX)  Index since
July 2005, as investors weighed the pace of central bank
monetary stimulus.  Metro AG (MEO)  advanced 5 percent as Morgan Stanley recommended
that investors buy shares in  Germany ’s biggest retailer.  The DAX slipped 0.2 percent to 8,451.83 at 9:49 a.m. in
Germany, snapping an 11-day rally. Twenty one shares in the
gauge fell, while nine rose. The measure has increased 11
percent this year as central banks around the world maintained
monetary stimulus. The broader HDAX Index lost 0.2 percent
today.  “We’re still benefiting from this central-bank ’put’
environment, but that is going to end and it will end first in
the U.S.,” William De Vijlder, chief investment officer at BNP
Paribas Investment Partners, which oversees $653 billion, told
 Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television. “Every word of the Fed
governors is being looked at with a looking glass. When they do
start to contemplate reducing quantitative easing, market
nervousness will inevitably go up.”  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the DAX was 16 percent lower than the average of the past 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BOJ, Fed  The  Bank of Japan  affirmed a plan to double the monetary
base over two years. The central bank said it will expand the
supply of money in the economy by 60 to 70 trillion yen ($683
billion) a year, as pledged in April.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies on the
U.S. economic outlook from 10:00 a.m. in Washington before a
Joint Economic Committee of Congress. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  also releases the minutes of its April 30-May 1
meeting late today. Policy makers said after their last meeting
that they will keep buying $85 billion of bonds every month,
while standing ready to raise or lower purchases as conditions
evolve.  Purchases of previously owned U.S. houses rose to a 4.99
million annualized rate last month, the fastest pace since
November 2009, from 4.92 million in March, according to the
median forecast in a  Bloomberg survey . The National Association
of Realtors releases the data at 10 a.m. Washington time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  