-- House Passes Keystone Bill as White House Vows Veto
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-05-23T15:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/house-passes-keystone-bill-as-white-house-vows-veto.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
passed legislation to approve the Keystone XL oil pipeline, the
eighth time congressional Republicans have advanced a measure
promoting the project.  Democrats called yesterday’s vote in the Republican-controlled chamber a largely symbolic effort to score political
points because the bill was unlikely to become law. The Senate,
where Democrats have the majority, isn’t considering similar
legislation, and President  Barack Obama ’s administration has
threatened a veto should the bill emerge from Congress.  Under the measure, Calgary-based  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  wouldn’t
have to win approval from the U.S. State Department for the
pipeline, which is supported by labor unions and the  energy
industry  and opposed by environmental groups fighting climate
change.  In the 241-175 House vote approving the bill, 19 Democrats
joined the 222 Republicans supporting it.  Republicans said the administration has had enough time to
review the project, which they said will create thousands of
construction jobs and reduce U.S. reliance on unfriendly
countries such as Venezuela as sources for energy needs.  “It is time for the president to put his political
calculations aside, work with Republicans to approve the
Keystone pipeline, and advance a growth and jobs agenda that
will help our economy grow and put more Americans back to
work,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said in
a statement after the vote.  Emission Issue  Democrats opposing the bill said Keystone is a pollution
risk to farms and ranches in the nation’s midsection, and would
promote development of Alberta’s oil sands, thereby increasing
greenhouse gas emissions.  “To quote  Yogi Berra , it’s deja vu all over again here in
the House of Representatives,” said Representative  Jared Polis ,
a Colorado Democrat, paraphrasing to the former  New York  Yankees
catcher. Polis said it was the eighth time in 2 1/2 years that
the House had voted on legislation or resolutions that included
Keystone language.  The administration said May 21 that it “strongly opposes”
the bill, and aides to Obama would recommend a veto.  The measure would “circumvent longstanding and proven
processes” for evaluating cross-border pipelines and “prevents
the thorough consideration of complex issues that could have
serious security, safety, environmental and other
ramifications,” the White House Office of Management and Budget
said in a statement.  The State Department has jurisdiction over Keystone because
it crosses the border with Canada.  Heavy Crude  Keystone is designed to carry a type of heavy crude called
bitumen from Alberta to refineries along the U.S. Gulf Coast.
Combined with oil extracted from shale formations in North
Dakota, the line would transport about 830,000 barrels a day,
crossing six U.S. states.  Environmental groups including 350.org and the  Sierra Club 
have lobbied the administration to reject the project over
 climate change  concerns. Local groups such as BoldNebraska say
the project threatens farms and ranches.  A draft State Department environmental impact statement
concluded the Alberta oil would find its way to customers with
or without Keystone. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
has said the department’s review wasn’t thorough enough.  After the State Department issues a final environmental
assessment, it will determine whether Keystone is in the
national interest by evaluating issues such as economic impact,
trade and relations with foreign governments.  Canadian Lobbying  Canadian officials have stepped up lobbying to win a U.S.
permit for the project, which would relieve an oil glut in
Alberta and increase revenue to the province.  Daniel Kessler, a spokesman for 350.org, said the group
expects a final decision by October.  Senator  John Hoeven , a North Dakota Republican, has
introduced in his chamber a bill similar to the House measure.  “We’re still looking for a vehicle in the Senate,” to
advance the legislation, Don Canton, a spokesman for Hoeven,
said in an interview.  Today, 24 Senate Republicans wrote Obama to urge him not to
link approval of Keystone with the enactment of more stringent
environmental regulations such as greenhouse gas limits, as some
Democrats and environmental groups have urged.  “Americans cannot afford the environmentalist wish list of
carbon reduction policies as a quid pro quo for Keystone XL
pipeline project approval,” Hoeven,  John Barrasso  of Wyoming,
 Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska,  David Vitter  of  Louisiana  and 20 other
Senate Republicans wrote to Obama.  The House bill is H.R. 3. The Senate version is S. 582.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  