-- How Nations Tried to Keep Striving Migrants In
-- B y   E d w a r d   T e n n e r
-- 2013-05-22T21:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/how-nations-tried-to-keep-striving-migrants-in.html
Most developed nations try to limit
the inflow of people from less developed ones. Yet, until the
early 1800s, migration policy worked in the opposite direction,
and was aimed at preventing skilled people in relatively
advanced economies from seeking opportunity elsewhere.  For centuries,  Europe ’s rulers believed that when it came
to trade, one nation’s gain was another’s loss, and that the
strength of a state depended on an ample treasury of precious
metals to finance war. Along with import prohibitions, export
bounties and high tariffs, bans on emigration were seen as
legitimate means to encourage the sale of goods that would bring
in gold from abroad.  And  trade secrets  were even more vital than they are now,
because they would be kept longer. As  Adam Smith  wrote in 1776
in “The Wealth of Nations,” a “dyer who has found the means
of producing a particular color with materials which cost only
half the price of those commonly made use of, may, with good
management, enjoy the advantage of his discovery as long as he
lives, and even leave it as a legacy to his posterity.”  A nation that could prevent its artisans from transferring
their knowledge abroad seemed to have a good chance of extending
a de facto monopoly for decades or even centuries.  Venice Artisans  One of the earliest bans on emigration was imposed on the
glass artisans of  Venice , whose workshops on the island of
Murano were renowned for luxury wares. Such laws and edicts
originated in the 13th century, and could be drastic. In 1597, a
group of emigrants was summoned to return or face the penalty of
being chained to galley oars for five years and paying a heavy
fine. Others had their local property confiscated, and the death
penalty could apply.  While many emigrants evaded the draconian laws, the
penalties probably slowed the drift of masters to northern
European centers where they were offered significantly higher
income.  By the time of the American Revolution, emigration of
artisans appeared to threaten not just luxury industries such as
glassware but also the foundations of the empire, or so
Britain’s statesmen believed. As a result, recognition of
American independence brought a new phase of struggle. If
 British (UKMPIYOY)  machines and the workers who built and maintained them
could be kept from the U.S., the commercial hegemony of  London 
could be maintained and even strengthened, because Americans
were still attached to British manufactures and under the
Articles of Confederation each state pursued its own economic
policy.  In “ Trade Secrets : Intellectual Piracy and the Origins of
American Industrial Power,” the historian Doron S. Ben-Atar has
shown how resolutely Britain enforced decrees against American
states and their nascent industries. Sea captains were required
to demand a certificate from an emigrant’s parish confirming
that he “is not, nor hath ever been, a manufacturer or
artificer in wool, iron, steel, brass, or any other metal,”
among other trades. The law threatened heavy fines for evasion.
Emigrating textile workers forfeited their citizenship and
property and could even be tried for treason. Even patents that
had expired in Britain, while free for domestic use, were
considered state secrets in the rest of the world.  Conversely, most of the political and business leaders of
the early  American Republic  believed that they would need not
just the designs of British and other European machinery but
workers familiar with their construction and operation.  Industrial Spies  States sent industrial spies to gather secrets and induce
emigration. Would-be emigrants solicited bonuses and inducements
from American diplomats abroad for bringing new manufactures.
Even  Thomas Jefferson , for all his agrarian ideals and suspicion
of urbanism and industry, helped acquire manufacturing skills in
the national interest.  The emigration movement’s leading avatar was Samuel Slater,
a former manager in one of Britain’s most advanced mills. After
reading of the impressive bonuses offered for construction of
even inferior machines in the U.S., he committed to memory the
system of textile machinery developed by Richard Arkwright.
Slater left  England  disguised as a farmer, without notice to his
own family. He formed a partnership with the Rhode Island
manufacturer Moses Brown, who had smuggled over some of the
machines, and became known as the founder of the American
 textile industry . (Even today a  BBC.com  site describing his
contributions seems unsure of whether to regard him as a hero of
industry or a commercial Benedict Arnold in reverse.)  Slater’s case shows why the ease of fabricating documents
(and no doubt bribing officials and ships’ masters) made
Britain’s emigration bans futile in the long run. When non-naturalized British citizens were required to register as enemy
aliens during the War of 1812, almost one in three northeastern
city dwellers met the criteria. This critical mass made further
inducements unnecessary. The U.S. government began to recognize
international  patent rights . The growing influence of Smith,
 David Ricardo  and other liberal political economists discredited
the old “mercantilist” policies and made free trade the new
orthodoxy.  The benefits of expanding trade also refuted the assumption
that one nation’s gain had to be another’s loss. Recognizing its
unenforceability, Britain ended its artisan emigration ban in
1824.  Today, trade secrets are governed mainly by civil law in
the form of nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements. Even
though we are alarmed by global industrial espionage, we should
recall that as an industrial nation, we were founded in large
part by people who pirated their own skills.  ( Edward Tenner  is author of “Why Things Bite Back:
Technology and the Revenge of  Unintended Consequences ” and
“Our Own Devices: How Technology Remakes Humanity.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Tennner at  edward.h.tenner@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  