-- Lowe’s Rises as CEO Says Sales Gaining After Cold Spring
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/lowe-s-profit-trails-estimates-as-weather-damps-sales.html
Lowe’s Cos. (LOW)  climbed to an intraday
record yesterday after Chief Executive Officer Robert Niblock
said the strengthening housing market is helping sales recover
from a cold spring that sapped demand for outdoor merchandise.  The second-largest U.S. home-improvement retailer reported
first-quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates while
maintaining its forecast for earnings this year. The shares fell
in early trading as the performance lagged behind larger Home
Depot Inc. before Niblock’s comments helped them rebound to a
record $43.84. The  shares  closed at $42.97, up 1.2 percent.  Lowe’s same-store sales slipped about 10 percent in March
as the chill hurt purchases of flowers and fertilizer, then
gained about 10 percent in April as the weather returned to
normal and are “in that ballpark so far in May,” Niblock said
yesterday on a conference call with analysts.  “As the weather broke, we saw good performance,” he said.
“It added some comfort that the housing recovery provides some
optimism out there.”  Net income  in the quarter ended May 3 rose 2.5 percent to
$540 million, or 49 cents a share, from $527 million, or 43
cents, a year earlier, the Mooresville, North Carolina-based
company said in a statement. Analysts projected 51 cents, the
average of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Revenue fell 0.5 percent to $13.1 billion, trailing
analysts’ $13.4 billion average estimate.  Still, Lowe’s reaffirmed its full-year  forecast , projecting
profit of $2.05 a share. Analysts estimated $2.09. The company
also reiterated it expects revenue to rise about 4 percent and
same-store sales to gain about 3.5 percent.  ‘Sailing Along’  “There is a very positive wind behind the sailors who are
sailing along with housing,” said William Smead, who oversees
Home Depot shares among $470 million in assets as chief
investment officer at Smead Capital Management in  Seattle . He
doesn’t own Lowe’s.  Niblock is playing catch-up to Home Depot, which moved
faster to improve store operations as the housing market slumped
and posted first-quarter profit and sales on May 21 that topped
analysts’ estimates.  Lowe’s results “were certainly a letdown with Home Depot
talking up the recovery in housing and construction,” Chris Bertelsen, who oversees about $2 billion including Lowe’s and
Home Depot shares as chief investment officer at Global
Financial Private Capital Inc. in Sarasota,  Florida , said in a
telephone interview.  Niblock, 50, said in an interview that he wasn’t using
weather as an excuse for Lowe’s first-quarter performance. As
for Home Depot, he said the Atlanta-based company operates twice
as many stores as Lowe’s in  California  where weather wasn’t a
negative factor, he said.  Weather Patterns  “It wasn’t that weather was any different on their side of
their side of the street,” Niblock said by telephone. “It’s
just where the weather patterns were.”  Lowe’s, which operates about 1,750 stores, had 110 outlets
in California as of Feb. 1, according to its website. Home Depot
had 232 in the state as of May 5, according to a Web posting. It
has about 2,250 stores.  Home Depot operates more stores in the northeastern U.S.
where repairs from  Hurricane Sandy  spurred demand for building
materials, Niblock said. It also generates a larger percentage
of sales from contractors and other professionals spending at a
faster rate in the housing rebound than consumers, he said.  “The trends in pro are related to improvements in the
housing market,” Scot Ciccarelli, an analyst at RBC Capital
Markets in New York, said in an interview.  “As people feel a
little bit wealthier and they have more equity in the house,
they are more apt to invest in the home.”  Ciccarelli rates Lowe’s and Home Depot outperform, the
equivalent of a buy.  Home Sales  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes increased 0.6 percent
in April to an annual rate of 4.97 million, the most since
November 2009, the National Association of Realtors reported
yesterday in  Washington . The median price rose 11 percent
compared with April 2012, the fifth consecutive month that
property values advanced more than 10 percent year over year.  Home Depot also reached an intraday record of $81.56 before
closing at $79.69, up 1.2 percent from the previous day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  