-- Lloyds Said to Plan $8.7 Billion Sale of U.S. Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-05-23T10:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/lloyds-said-to-plan-8-7-billion-auction-of-u-s-home-loan-bonds.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  plans to
auction about $8.7 billion of U.S.  mortgage securities  without
government backing that were issued before the credit crisis,
according to a person with knowledge of the offering.  The home-loan bonds are being sold next week by Britain’s
biggest mortgage lender, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the transaction isn’t public. Lloyds acquired
a portfolio of mortgage debt as part of its takeover of HBOS Plc
in 2009.  Lloyds and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc , the U.K.’s
largest state-owned lenders, said yesterday that they plan to
address capital shortfalls by shrinking their balance sheets and
through other previously announced measures rather than with
equity sales. U.S. home prices jumped 10.5 percent in March from
a year earlier, the fastest pace in seven years, according to
CoreLogic Inc.  “This is probably the best timing for a deal of this kind
since the start of the credit crisis,” said Stefano Loreti, the
London-based head of structured credit investments at Haymarket
Financial LLP, which oversees about 3.5 billion euros ($4.5
billion) of assets. “The decision by Lloyds and other banks not
to panic sell at the start of the crisis was proven right.”  Biggest Sale  The auction is the biggest widely marketed sale of
securitized debt since at least March 2010, according to
 Empirasign Strategies LLC , a New York-based provider of data on
securitization-market trading. Eight of the 10 largest auctions
were sales by the  Federal Reserve  of debt acquired from Bear
Stearns Cos. and American International Group Inc. during the
crisis.  Central banks worldwide have announced more than 511
interest rate reductions since June 2007, according to  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  data. Efforts to deal with the worst credit crisis
since the Great Depression are forcing investors to accept lower
returns for their securities.  “The U.S. MBS market’s recovery has been aided by
improvements in the underlying housing market, as well as the
search for yield,” said Harpreet Parhar, a strategist at  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  in  London .  U.S.  subprime-mortgage  securities composed of loans made to
the weakest borrowers have returned 12.7 percent this year on
average, after rallying more than 41 percent in 2012, according
to Barclays Plc index data.  Matt Young, a spokesman for Lloyds in London, declined to
comment.  Separately, Lloyds said in a statement today it raised
about 450 million pounds ($679 million) by selling 77 million
shares of investment adviser St. James’s Place Plc. The lender
said it’s getting a capital gain of about 40 million pounds,
which will be used to bolster  capital ratios .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  