-- Lloyds Sees No Need to Raise Equity Following PRA Call
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-05-22T10:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/lloyds-sees-no-need-to-raise-equity-following-pra-call.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland  Plc, Britain’s two biggest state-owned lenders,
won’t have to raise additional equity to help plug a 25 billion-pound ($38 billion) capital shortfall among the country’s banks.  The lenders plan to raise capital required by the
Prudential Regulation Authority by shrinking their balance
sheets and through other previously announced measures,
according to separate statements today. RBS, based in Edinburgh,
and London-based Lloyds both said they don’t have any plans to
sell contingent capital securities, or CoCos.  The announcements remove another obstacle to Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s plan to start selling the state’s
39 percent stake in Lloyds and its 81 percent holding in RBS.
They are the first British banks to disclose the outcome of
talks with the PRA, a unit of the  Bank of England , after the
financial supervisor ordered the industry in March to plug the
shortfall by the end of the year.  “We are pleased with the substantial progress made in the
delivery of our customer-focused strategy,” Lloyds Chief
Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio said in the statement.
“Our strong capital position enables the group to actively
support growth and lending in the U.K. economy as well as
delivering sustainable results for our shareholders.”  Lloyds advanced 2.4 percent to 62.99 pence at 11:52 a.m. in
London. RBS increased 1.6 percent to 347.8 pence.  ‘Appropriate Steps’  The PRA said in a statement from London today that Lloyds
and RBS have “advanced their plans to a position where
disclosure is appropriate.” Talks with other lenders are
ongoing and “more information will be provided along with
confirmation that, where necessary, banks will take appropriate
steps to ensure they meet” capital recommendations, it said.  Britain’s lenders have been selling units and detailing
plans to bolster their businesses since Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  initially said in November it was concerned that
they weren’t holding enough capital.  Lloyds has sold a 20 percent stake in wealth-manager St.
James’s Place Plc and is considering a sale of its Scottish
Widows Investment Partnership division. RBS said earlier this
year it would sell a 25 percent stake in Citizens Financial
Group Inc., a U.S. consumer and commercial lender.  ‘Management Actions’  Additional requirements will be met through a “strongly
capital-generative core business, continued progress in
executing the group’s customer focused strategy and further
capital accretive non-core disposals,” Lloyds said. RBS plans
to plug its capital hole through “management actions relating
to reductions in the size of its markets business and non-core
assets, as well as the plans for a partial” initial public
offering in its Citizens unit.  Spokesmen at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  declined to
comment.  RBS, Lloyds and Barclays all gained approval from
shareholders this year to be able to offer CoCos. The securities
convert into equity in the event that the capital of a bank
falls below a pre-set level and are designed to protect
taxpayers in a financial crisis and avert future bailouts.  RBS said that while the plan “does not call for issuance
of contingent capital instruments” it “remains an option.”  Lloyds today reiterated that it expects its fully-loaded
core Tier 1 capital ratio under Basel III rules, a measure of
financial strength, to exceed 9 percent by the end of the year
and 10 percent by the end of 2014.  General Elections  Osborne is seeking to reduce the taxpayers’ stake in the
two banks before a general election due in 2015. The Chancellor
of the Exchequer, constrained by the toughest austerity program
since World War II, could use the proceeds of a sale to fund tax
cuts or more spending before the vote.  Earlier this year, the Treasury reduced the price below
which it would recognize a loss from selling its stakes in
Lloyds and RBS to take into account fees the lenders paid the
Treasury, officials with knowledge of the matter said in March.  Lloyds  shares  have advanced 31 percent this year, trading
above the 61 pence price at which the government says it will
break even on its holding after providing a 20 billion-pound
rescue amid the 2008 financial crisis. RBS shares, which are up
7.2 percent in 2013, remain below the 407 pence break even rate
on the government’s 45.5 billion-pound investment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  