-- Pakistan’s Imran Khan Released From Hospital After Rally Injury
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2013-05-22T07:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/pakistan-s-imran-khan-released-from-hospital-after-rally-injury.html
Pakistani cricket icon  Imran Khan ,
whose political party won the third-most parliamentary seats in
May 11 elections, was released from a hospital where he received
treatment for injuries sustained in a fall at his final rally.  Khan fell 14-20 feet (4-5 meters) from a forklift hoisting
him to a stage to address supporters in Lahore on May 7,
fracturing a vertebra and sustaining head and neck injuries.
He’s expected to rest at home for a few days, Shireen Mazari, a
spokeswoman for Khan’s party, said in a phone interview.  Khan, 60, may be an influential voice in the next
parliament, and Prime Minister-elect  Nawaz Sharif  visited him in
the hospital to seek support as he prepares to address an
economy crippled by record energy shortages and violent
extremism. Khan’s Tehreek-e-Insaf, or Movement for Justice, is
poised to form a coalition administration in the country’s
northwestern Khyber-Pakhtunkhawa province where Taliban
militants have staged deadly attacks against security forces and
civilians.  Sharif’s  Pakistan  Muslim League won 125 of 272 directly
elected seats in the lower house of parliament and can form a
government with the help of smaller parties and independents.
Khan’s group won 28 seats, three fewer than the  Pakistan Peoples
Party  of President Asif Ali Zardari that led the last coalition
government.  A further 70 seats reserved for women and religious
minorities will be allocated according to the final standing of
parties in the ballot, taking the assembly to a total of 342
members. Parliament must reconvene within three weeks of an
election.  The Geo TV network showed images late yesterday of Khan
wearing a cervical collar as he walked around the hospital in
Lahore where he was treated.  Pakistan’s parliamentary elections marked the first time in
the nation’s history that one elected civilian administration
completed its five-year term and handed power to a successor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  