-- Pentagon to Buy Records System Amid Veteran Groups Concerns
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M i l l e r   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-05-23T16:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/pentagon-to-buy-records-system-amid-u-s-veterans-claims-delays.html
The Pentagon plans to buy an
electronic health-records system following increasing pressure
from lawmakers to end a backlog in U.S. veterans’ disability
claims.  Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel promised to work closely with
Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki to
develop a “seamless system,” according to a Pentagon statement
yesterday.  The Pentagon provided few details on its “software
modernization,” and its plan raised concerns among U.S.
lawmakers and veterans advocates who have pushed the agencies to
build a single system for current and former troops’ health
records.  “I’m disappointed in this decision prior to the Memorial
Day weekend,” said Michael Michaud, a Maine Democrat and
ranking minority member of the House Veterans’ Affairs
Committee. “The Defense Department shouldn’t downplay the
impact their records system has on the ability of our veterans
to get a timely decision on their claim.”  It has taken about 250 days to process a claim, according
to a February memo signed by Allison Hickey, VA undersecretary
for benefits, and Frederick Vollrath, a Pentagon official.
Almost 175 of those days “are spent trying to secure” military
service treatment records, according to the document obtained by
Bloomberg.  Pentagon Role  The Defense Department isn’t a “major factor” in the
veterans’ claims backlog, Frank Kendall, undersecretary of
defense for acquisition, told reporters yesterday. The Pentagon
routinely provides the VA with records it needs to make benefit
decisions within about 45 days of when they’re requested, he
said.  Joe Davis, spokesman for the  Kansas City , Missouri-based
Veterans of Foreign Wars, said the military is actually a “huge
factor” in the bottleneck.  The VA relies on paper forms from the military to prove a
disability is linked to a veteran’s service, and it “can only
catch what it’s thrown,” Davis said in an e-mail.  The Pentagon should “look no further” than the VA’s
records system, which works, he said. Military leaders have
opposed adopting the veterans agency’s software for
“parochial” reasons, he said.  ‘Bad Money’  In February, Shinseki and then-Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said they were scrapping efforts to build a single
records system and would instead work to combine electronic
health data, in part due to cost concerns. The estimated cost of
the project had roughly doubled from initial projections of $4
billion to $6 billion, Roger Baker, the VA’s former chief
information officer, has said.  “The Defense Department is throwing good money after bad
money” if it buys its own records system, Tom Berger, executive
director of the veterans health council for  Silver Spring ,
Maryland-based Vietnam Veterans of America, said in an
interview.  House lawmakers led by Michaud and Representative Jeff Miller, the Veterans’ Affairs Committee chairman and a Florida
Republican, yesterday renewed pressure for the departments to
combine their electronic health records, calling on President
 Barack Obama  to end “the bureaucratic back and forth on
veterans’ records.”  The two agencies need to permanently merge electronic
medical records to end the claims delays, which may be affecting
veterans’ health, the lawmakers said in the letter. The House
Appropriations Committee would require a single system as part
of a VA funding bill.  Ten Bills  House lawmakers have introduced 10 bills designed to
improve disability claims processing times. One measure requires
the Pentagon to provide complete electronic records to the
veterans agency within 21 days.  Veterans groups and lawmakers have stepped up their
criticism of the claims backlog. Lawmakers held two press
conferences yesterday, one led by Michaud and House Democratic
leader  Nancy Pelosi . An event later in the afternoon was led by
Senator Barbara Mikulski and drew Shinseki and Hagel, whose
agency had announced plans for its health-records system earlier
in the day.  Payments Delay  Pentagon officials didn’t say how much the system announced
yesterday would cost or when it might be in place. The
military’s current records system was criticized by the U.S.
Government Accountability Office for its “speed, usability and
availability.” The Defense Department had spent about $2
billion on the system at the time, the GAO said in October 2010.  Companies including  Palo Alto , California-based  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , Armonk, New York-based  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and McLean, Virginia-based  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  have won
contracts for work on the existing system.  The VA and Shinseki have faced mounting criticism over the
backlog, which leaves most former troops waiting more than four
months for payments tied to service-related injuries.  Jon Stewart , who hosts the “ Daily Show ” on  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s
Comedy Central television channel, called the delays
“criminal” in a March episode.  The VA had almost 875,000 pending requests for disability
and pension payments as of May 20. About two-thirds of the
requests were more than 125 days old, the agency’s target for
timely processing.  “We all agree that veterans wait too long to get the
benefits they’ve earned,” Shinseki said during yesterday’s
press conference at the U.S. Capitol.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Miller in Washington at 
 kmiller01@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  