-- Peugeot Sees European Car Market Stabilizing at Low Level
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d   a n d   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2013-05-22T13:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/peugeot-to-close-french-rsearch-site-to-reduce-spending.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, said demand for new vehicles in the region has
started to stabilize at a “very low level” after deliveries
increased in April for the first time in 19 months.  Competition is “very, very aggressive” as many carmakers
are granting “lots of incentives,” while “we’re quite happy
with our own price position,” Maxime Picat, head of the
manufacturer’s Peugeot brand, said today in an interview in the
town of Grevenbroich, outside Dusseldorf,  Germany .  European car sales rose 1.8 percent in April, the first
gain since September 2011, adding to signs that the region’s
economic woes may ease. Even so, the auto market is near a two-decade low. Picat reiterated the Paris-based manufacturer’s
forecast that industry sales in Europe will fall 5 percent this
year in the sixth consecutive annual decline, and said it’s too
early to predict a rebound.  Peugeot Citroen Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin laid
out plans on Feb. 13 to return the group to profit as an upscale
shift of its main brand and cooperation with  General Motors Co. (GM) 
add to the effects of spending cuts. Cars from the Peugeot
division will be upgraded to differentiate them more from
Citroen models, and average volume is anticipated to double
through the alliance with GM, he said at the time.  New Models  Picat said today that he’s “very confident” of sales
being supported by new models such as the Peugeot 208 small car,
2008 compact sport-utility vehicle and a new version of the 308
coming out later this year to compete with market leader
Volkswagen AG’s bestselling Golf hatchback.  Peugeot fell as much as 2.5 percent to 7.33 euros and was
trading down at 1.3 percent at 3:47 p.m. in Paris. The stock,
which was at a  10 1/2-month high  two days ago, has gained 36
percent this year.  The contraction in  Europe ’s car market, which accounted for
62 percent of Peugeot’s deliveries in 2012, pushed the group to
an operating loss of 576 million euros ($745 million) last year
as the company consumed 3 billion euros in  cash . Peugeot’s
reorganization includes measures to reduce its French workforce
17 percent through 2014, with a target of cutting cash burn 50
percent in 2013 and breaking even next year.  Peugeot reached a deal with a striking union last week on
terms for closing a car factory in  France , removing one of the
last obstacles to its target of eliminating 11,200  jobs  in the
country. The company said today that it plans to open talks with
labor leaders on May 29 on boosting efficiency from remaining
employees.  The manufacturer will shut a French research and
development facility and relocate most of its 660 employees to
nearby sites, with no job cuts planned, Cecile Damide, a
spokeswoman, said earlier today.  Cooperation with Detroit-based GM, which owns the Opel and
Vauxhall brands in Europe, is targeted at developing and
producing cars the manufacturers plan to begin selling in 2016,
the companies said in January. The French and U.S. carmakers
have also teamed up in purchasing to reap economies of scale.
The alliance is proceeding as planned, Picat said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Grevenbroich at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Munich at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  