-- Pfizer to Split Off Rest of Zoetis Animal Health Business
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-05-22T20:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/pfizer-to-sell-rest-of-zoetis-animal-health-stock-to-investors.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, is offering investors a share exchange to reduce its
80.2 percent stake in  Zoetis Inc. (ZTS) , the animal-health business
that the company spun off almost four months ago.  Pfizer shareholders will have the option of swapping their
shares for Zoetis stock in a tax-free transaction, New York-based Pfizer said in a statement today. If the exchange is fully
subscribed, Pfizer will no longer have a controlling interest,
leaving Madison, New Jersey-based Zoetis fully independent.  The exchange would end the latest stage of Pfizer Chief
Executive Officer Ian Read’s plans to slim down the company and
concentrate on producing new drugs. Pfizer agreed in April 2012
to sell its baby food unit to  Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest
food maker, for $11.9 billion. Zoetis shares have risen 29
percent since trading started in February after an initial
public offering.  “The proceeds from the IPO plus the Pfizer share reduction
from this exchange will more than offset the lost income from
Zoetis,”  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with International
Strategy & Investment Group LLC in New York said in a note to
clients. The timing was sooner than expected, and a positive for
Pfizer because it should add to earnings next year, he said.  The exchange also advances Read’s effort of cutting
Pfizer’s shares outstanding and boosting earnings per share
through moves including stock buybacks.  Better Position  “Given the strong demand in the IPO and a favorable market
environment, we concluded that now is the appropriate time to
distribute our remaining stake in Zoetis,” Read said in today’s
statement. The transaction “better positions Pfizer to focus on
our core business as an innovative biopharmaceutical company.”  Pfizer  shares  rose 1.8 percent to $29.30 at the close in
New York. Zoetis climbed 1.5 percent to $33.55.  The Pfizer shares will be exchanged at a 7 percent discount
subject to an upper limit of 0.9898 shares of Zoetis stock per
Pfizer share. If the limit isn’t in effect, $100 in Pfizer
shares will be worth $107.52 of Zoetis, Pfizer said.  The exchange offer is scheduled to end on June 19 when the
exact ratio will be announced, Pfizer said in the statement.
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp., Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Morgan Stanley will manage the deal. Skadden, Arps,
Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP acted as legal adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  