-- Pike Sullivan, Last F. Eberstadt & Co. CEO, Dies at 86
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2013-05-22T14:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/pike-sullivan-last-f-eberstadt-co-ceo-dies-at-86-correct-.html
(Corrects name to Ferdinand in third paragraph of story
published May 11.)  Pike H. Sullivan, the final chief
executive officer of investment firm F. Eberstadt & Co., an
early leader on  Wall Street  in mergers and underwriting, has
died. He was 86.  He died on May 8, according to a  death notice  in the  New
York  Times. No cause was given. He was a resident of Wilson,
 Wyoming , abutting the Teton mountain range.  Starting in 1962, Sullivan worked for Ferdinand Eberstadt,
a pioneer in mutual funds and legendary dealmaker whose work
included the 1928 merger of Dodge Bros. Inc. into Chrysler Corp.
and the 1969 merger of Northeast Airlines into  Northwest
Airlines , according to his obituary in the Times. Eberstadt also
was called into service by the U.S. government on several
occasions to consult on national security and economic issues.  Eberstadt was managing partner of the firm until his death
in 1969, and two of the three franchises he had built -- an
investment-banking team that sponsored emerging companies, and
Chemical Fund, a highly successful mutual fund that specialized
in chemical stocks -- withered in his absence, according to
William H. Janeway’s “Doing Capitalism in the Innovation
Economy” (2012). Because of Sullivan and another partner, Ed
Giles, the third leg of the stool -- institutional research --
survived.  “Sullivan built and ran the firm’s sales and trading
activities,” wrote Janeway, a managing director at  Warburg
Pincus & Co. , who worked at Eberstadt early in his career.  ‘Remarkable’ Instincts  “He possessed a remarkable, if inarticulate, instinct for
stock selection,” Janeway said. “He executed a simple
analytical construct by dividing the world and its contents into
a two-by-two matrix: one dimension ranged from the ‘simple’ to
the ‘complicated,’ and the other ran from the ‘real’ to the
‘remote.’ The secret of management, whether of investments or of
the firm, was to live to the maximum extent possible in the
quadrant that was both simple and real, and to avoid all that
was both complicated and remote.”  Among their other steps, Sullivan and Giles sold the
remains of Chemical Fund in 1979 to  Marsh & McLennan Cos. (MMC) , which
then owned the Putnam Group of mutual funds.  Sullivan served as Eberstadt’s CEO and chairman from 1979
to 1985, when he presided over the firm’s acquisition by Robert
Fleming Holdings Ltd., a British merchant bank. The new company,
Eberstadt Fleming Inc., was wholly owned by the bank, which was
acquired in 2000 by Chase Manhattan Corp., a predecessor of
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Sullivan and Giles, who had served as
president of Eberstadt, became managing directors of the new
firm, according to a PR Newswire release at the time.  Career Moves  Sullivan was born on Jan. 19, 1927, in Decatur,  Illinois ,
according to the death notice. He earned a bachelor’s degree in
economics from  Brown University  in 1949.  He worked at White Weld & Co., a financial services firm in
 New York City , before joining F. Eberstadt & Co. in 1962.  From 1988 until his retirement in 1993, he served as
chairman of investment advisory firm Peter B. Cannell & Co.  Survivors include his wife of 61 years, Susan Wray
Sullivan; a daughter, Marguerite (Meg) Sullivan; a son, Pike H.
Sullivan III; and two grandchildren, according to the death
notice.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  