-- Oil-Price Assessors Review Methods on Regulators’ Concern
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2013-05-23T14:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/platts-argus-icis-plan-reviews-to-combat-manipulation.html
Energy price-reporting organizations
including Platts said they ordered independent reviews of their
methods after calls by regulators last year to safeguard against
market manipulation.  Platts, the unit of  McGraw Hill Financial Inc. (MHFI)  that was
raided last week as part of a European Union probe into oil
pricing, said its review will start in June and be completed
this year.  Argus Media Ltd.  and Reed Business Infomation’s  ICIS 
said their evaluations would be completed by October. The
process, which preceded and is separate from the EU inquiry,
will examine whether the agencies comply with their own stated
price-assessment methods, the companies said this week.  The appraisals are a response to calls by international
regulators for “robust” controls to prevent manipulation and
distortion of wholesale prices for commodities from crude oil to
gasoline. Auditors will assess whether the companies have
adhered to principles set out last October by the International
Organization of Securities Commissions, a Madrid-based group
that brings together regulators from more than 100 countries.  “A review by an external auditor as called for by the
 IOSCO principles  will demonstrate to regulators the strength of
Platts’s internal controls,” Dan Tanz, the company’s vice
president of editorial, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement
from London. Platts has a long track record of “strong internal
governance,” he said.  Office Raids  EU investigators last week raided the offices of Platts as
well as oil companies  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL) 
and Argos Energies as part of a probe into potential price
manipulation in crude, refined products and biofuels markets.  David Nicholas, a London-based spokesman for BP, declined
to comment on BP crude trades and Morten Eek, a spokesman for
Statoil, said the Norwegian company doesn’t comment on specific
trades. Shell Chief Financial Officer Simon Henry said on May 21
that Platts provides transparency to a complex market.  Traders including  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , Vitol Group and
Gunvor Group Ltd. were asked to give information to the EU,
though they aren’t being investigated, according to three people
familiar with the situation, who asked not to be identified
because the matter is private. The Swiss-based companies
declined to comment.  The European investigation marks the third time global
pricing benchmarks have drawn regulatory scrutiny in the past
year following investigations into bank manipulation of the
 London  interbank offered rate, or Libor, and ISDAFix, the
benchmark for the $379 trillion swaps market.  Not Libor  “This is nothing like Libor,” Adrian Binks, Argus’s
chairman and chief executive in London, said in an e-mail May
20. “Price reporting agencies are independent companies that
compete with each other. It’s really industry’s choice to use
our quotations. We’re not receiving money for the trades. We’re
not like the banks.”  Argus hasn’t been visited by the EU or been asked questions
as part of the oil probe. ICIS hasn’t been approached by the EU,
the company said in a statement today.  “We’ve agreed to go through this external audit on a
voluntary basis to demonstrate that we’re following the best
practices as set out by IOSCO,” Richard Street, ICIS’s head of
regulation and compliance, said by phone yesterday from London.  Platts, Argus and ICIS publish benchmark prices for various
commodities including crude, refined oil products, chemicals and
natural gas.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
Platts and other companies in providing energy-markets news and
information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  