-- Poland Delays Tax to Prevent More Exits by Shale Gas Explorers
-- B y   M a r e k   S t r z e l e c k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-05-22T16:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/poland-delays-tax-to-prevent-more-exits-by-shale-gas-explorers.html
Poland plans to postpone the
collection of tax on shale gas production by five years and
improve regulation to ensure investors continue exploring for
the fuel in the eastern European nation.  “The law on hydrocarbon taxes will come into force in 2015
but taxes won’t be collected until 2020 to encourage investors
to explore for the fuel,” Finance Minister  Jacek Rostowski  said
today at a conference in Warsaw.  Poland granted more than  100 permits  to investors including
U.S. and Canadian companies to drill what was billed as  Europe ’s
richest shale-gas deposits and cut dependency on imports from
OAO Gazprom, the Russian supplier of about two-thirds of the
fuel to Poland. At the current pace of drilling, decades may
pass before the 300 needed to indicate whether the country can
possibly be self-sufficient.  Of 39 wells planned for 2013, just two were drilled by May,
Environment Ministry data show. Earlier this month  Talisman
Energy Inc. (TLM)  pulled out of Poland and  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  decided
to look for options to dispose of its 11 licenses.  The government last October announced plans to require that
explorers take a state-run company as a production partner. It
has also proposed raising taxes, while promising to cap the
fiscal burden at 40 percent. The measures, which haven’t become
law, would increase the government’s take to almost 80 percent
of profit, according to Ernst & Young estimates.  Business Mindset  Poland  is working on regulations that will convince
investors to continue exploring, Prime Minister Donald Tusk told
reporters in Brussels today.  “Yesterday I told the Environment Minister very clearly
that I expect him to prepare regulations that won’t scare
investors away,” Tusk said. “He must either acknowledge that
this project requires a business-oriented mindset or someone
else will take over the task.”  Investors’ biggest concern is being guaranteed the rights
to pump the fuel after they’ve invested in exploration,
according to Tusk.  Shares of Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA, the
Polish company that has 15 licenses to explore for shale gas,
increased as much as 3.1% to 6.03 zloty, the highest level in
more than two months, after today’s announcement. They closed at
5.95 zloty, the most since March 18.  While many explorers including  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  remain and say
they expect their projects to run for years, others such as
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  pulled out of the country and exploration has
slowed amid complex permitting procedures.  “The pace of exploration depends on the final shape of
regulation,” Marcin Zieba, general director of the Polish
Exploration and Production Industry Organization, said by phone
today. The group represents explorers including Chevron,
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  and PKN Orlen SA.  The postponement in taxing hydrocarbons applies to both
unconventional and conventional deposits, Kaja Zalewska, a
Finance Ministry adviser, said today by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marek Strzelecki in Warsaw at 
 mstrzelecki1@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  