-- Pound Falls to One-Month Low Versus Euro as Retail Sales Decline
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-05-22T16:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/pound-depreciates-to-4-week-low-against-euro-before-boe-minutes.html
The pound fell to a one-month low
against the euro after a government report showed U.K. retail
sales unexpectedly declined last month, supporting the central
bank’s case to boost monetary stimulus.  The U.K. currency slid to the lowest in more than two
months versus the dollar after minutes of the Bank of England’s
May 8-9 meeting also released today showed Governor Mervyn King
was defeated for a fourth month in his bid to expand bond
buying. The pound extended losses versus the dollar after
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the U.S. central
bank may cut the pace of its asset purchases in the next few
months. U.K. government bonds were little changed.  “The retail sales report today will add downward pressure
to the pound,” said Neil Jones, head of European hedge fund
sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  London . “I have a more
optimistic view on the U.K. outlook than the market consensus
but I can understand why the data today would boost speculation
for further quantitative easing, which is negative for
sterling.”  The pound dropped 0.5 percent to 85.56 pence per euro at
5:13 p.m. London time after depreciating to 85.90 pence, the
weakest since April 22. The U.K. currency fell 0.8 percent to
$1.5020, the lowest since March 14.  Sterling has slumped 3.2 percent this year, the second-worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar gained 5.6 percent and the euro rose 2.7 percent.  Retail Sales  U.K.  retail sales  including fuel dropped 1.3 percent from
March, when they declined 0.6 percent, the Office for National
Statistics said. The median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for an increase of 0.1 percent. A
separate report showed the underlying budget deficit widened.  “Much weaker headline April retail sales were used as
another excuse to sell the pound,” Elsa Lignos, a senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in London, wrote in
a note to clients. “It seems that we are entering another
period of negative market bias on the pound much like January
and February, and much like the last one, we think it will
ultimately prove overdone.”  Six members of the Bank of England’s Monetary Policy
Committee voted to keep quantitative easing at 375 billion
pounds this month, the minutes showed. King, David Miles and
Paul Fisher maintained their campaign to increase quantitative
easing by 25 billion pounds.  Bernanke Comments  The pound extended losses versus the dollar after Bernanke
said in testimony to the U.S. Congress in  Washington  that the
Fed may cut the pace of its asset purchases in the next few
meetings. Meanwhile, monetary policy is providing “significant
benefits,” he said.  The 10-year gilt yielded 1.90 percent after dropping as
much as seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point. The 1.75
percent bond due in September 2022 was at 98.71.  Gilts gained earlier as the International Monetary Fund
said Britain should stay focused on policies to foster economic
growth and keep monetary policy accommodative.  The IMF praised the government for showing flexibility in
its fiscal program, though it said planned tightening will act
as a drag on growth. It also said officials should consider
providing guidance that interest rates will stay low.  The 10-year  break-even rate , a gauge of market inflation
expectations derived from the difference in yield between
conventional and index-linked bonds, shrank five basis points to
3.04 percentage points after reaching 3.02 percentage points,
the narrowest since Jan. 15.  Gilts handed investors a loss of 1.9 percent this month
through yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
German bonds and U.S. Treasuries both dropped 1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  