-- Pritzker’s Superior Bank Subprime Losses Blemish Resume
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-05-22T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/pritzker-s-superior-bank-subprime-losses-blemish-resume.html
A 61-page  report  carrying the seal of
the Treasury’s inspector general offers a tutorial for
Republican senators interested in challenging  Penny Pritzker ’s
commerce secretary nomination.  The document chronicles the 2001 failure of a suburban
 Chicago  bank after Pritzker and her family expanded subprime
lending there and did pioneering work with the kind of mortgage-backed securitization that would eventually spread and help
spark the worst recession since the Great Depression.  When it closed, Superior was one of the nation’s largest
bank failures in a decade. It remains the biggest business-record blemish for a woman who has developed a skyscraper,
started a luxury senior housing enterprise and been chairwoman
for a credit reporting company.  “She’s got more than 25 years of management experience in
industries, including real estate, finance, and hospitality,”
President  Barack Obama  said on May 2 as he announced her
nomination. He didn’t specify her work in banking.  Pritzker, the Chicago businesswoman, philanthropist and
 Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  heiress who led record fundraising for
Obama’s 2008 campaign, is scheduled to have her Senate Commerce
Committee confirmation hearing tomorrow. Republicans have said
she should expect tough questions about Superior, as well as her
personal finances that include offshore accounts.  “Obviously, she was involved in an institution that
failed, and appropriate questions will be asked,” said Senator
 John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican and Obama’s opponent in the
2008 presidential campaign.  The White House and Pritzker’s personal spokeswoman, Susan
Anderson, declined to make the nominee available for an
interview.  Complex Failure  “Superior’s failure was complex,” Pritzker said in a 2008
statement posted on Obama’s campaign website. “In short, the
bank failed in 2001 because regulators concluded that the
valuation of certain assets in Superior’s financial statements,
which had been audited by Ernst & Young for many years and
previously approved by regulators, was overstated and as a
result the bank was not capitalized sufficiently.”  Anderson, in an e-mailed statement yesterday, said that in
the early 1990s “subprime lending by reputable institutions
greatly expanded home ownership for people with poor credit
histories.”  The bank’s failure came near the start of Pritzker’s
career. Other than her now-deceased uncle, then-family-patriarch
Jay Pritzker, no family member had closer ties to the bank.  Top Executive  Four years after graduating with simultaneous law and MBA
degrees from  Stanford University  in  California , Pritzker became
the bank’s top executive after Jay Pritzker and  New York  real
estate investor Alvin Dworman purchased a distressed Illinois
savings and loan in 1988 from regulators. It was a deal that
included the right to more than $600 million in tax and other
credits.  “Jay bought the bank for her,” Dworman said in a 2006
deposition for an Illinois state court case brought by uninsured
depositors who have lost $10 million.  Pritzker, 54, who with a net worth of more than $1.5
billion would be among the wealthiest cabinet secretaries in
U.S. history, was the bank’s chairwoman from 1991 through 1994.
During that period, Superior “embarked on a business strategy
marked by rapid and aggressive growth into subprime home
mortgages and automobile loans,” according to the inspector
general’s report.  It was the kind of lending that Obama often criticized on
the 2008 campaign trail. After she stepped down as the bank’s
head, Pritzker remained on its holding company’s board,
including at the time of the failure.  $351 Million Plan  In a May 2001 letter to the bank’s management and employees
-- just two months before its closure -- Pritzker detailed a
plan to revive the institution with an expansion into subprime
lending. She wrote that her family was devising a $351 million
recapitalization plan for the bank.  “Your resolve and dedication is a primary reason for the
past successes of the bank and will once again restore
Superior’s leadership position in subprime lending,” she wrote.
“Our commitment to subprime lending has never been stronger and
we are fully expecting to participate in restoring the bank’s
presence through strong product lines and continued growth.”  Anderson, the spokeswoman, said Pritzker’s involvement
included “leading negotiations with representatives of the
shareholders of the holding company, regulatory authorities and
other constituencies who were affected” in the effort to
recapitalize the bank.  Toxic Assets  The Pritzkers ultimately  reneged  on the deal with
regulators to inject more capital after determining the toxic
assets could be worth even less than they estimated. Officials
seized Superior in July 2001, and its 17 branches and $1.1
billion of deposits were sold for $52 million to Charter One
Financial Inc.  Throughout the 1990s, Superior had reported rising profits
that allowed it to distribute about $200 million in dividends to
shareholders, specifically the Pritzkers and Dworman, according
to a February 2002  report  by the inspector general of the
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation .  Clint Krislov, a Chicago attorney who represented
depositors in both the state lawsuit and a federal one against
the bank and Penny Pritzker among others, accused her family and
Dworman of improperly taking those dividends based on an over-valuation of the bank’s assets.  “No one else appears to have taken a crashed bank and
crashed it again and kept $200 million in profits,” said
Krislov, who was unsuccessful in the lawsuit.  Record Payment  In December 2001, the Pritzker family agreed to pay a
 record  $460 million to the U.S. as a result of the bank’s
failure. In 2011, the Pritzkers got a discount on remaining
payments of the 15-year deal by agreeing with regulators to pay
off the balance early.  Pritzker has presented the agreement as something her
family “voluntarily” offered. Krislov said that’s misleading.  “Other people were pursued by the FDIC into bankruptcy,”
he said. “They bought themselves out of what might have been a
very long, and rigorous and unfavorable process. If you have the
money to make a significant contribution, I guess you get a go-pass card.”  Subprime loans typically are given to people with the
weakest credit, charging higher interest to cover the bigger
risk of default, and Superior’s collapse turned out to be a
preview of the financial crisis that came later in the decade.  With $1.9 billion in assets as of March 2001, Superior
became undercapitalized because it overstated its holdings and
used shoddy accounting, the Office of Thrift Supervision said in
a July 2001  statement .  Poor Practices  Superior “also suffered from poor lending practices,
improper record-keeping and accounting, and ineffective board
and management supervision,” the OTS said.  John Courtney, a former small business owner in the
 construction industry , was among the depositors who lost money
and then unsuccessfully sued Superior Bank’s holding company and
Pritzker.  Courtney, 68, said he had about $300,000 in certificates of
deposit at the bank when it collapsed. That exceeded the
$100,000 limit for FDIC coverage at the time.  “They pushed the name Pritzker like you wouldn’t believe
when you went in the bank,” said Courtney, who claims he was
repeatedly assured his deposits would be safe because the bank
was owned by one of Chicago’s wealthiest families.  ‘Soup Kitchen’  Courtney said he’s received payments beyond the amount
technically covered by the FDIC $100,000 insurance cap, although
he’s still out about $60,000. He remembers waiting outside one
of the bank’s branches the week after its closing with dozens of
other depositors worried about their money.  “It looked like a soup kitchen,” he said. “And the
Pritzkers made money on the deal.”  In Courtney’s view, the bank failure should disqualify
Pritzker from leading the commerce department.  “I just don’t know how this has all been overlooked,” he
said. “The economy is in the condition it is right now, for a
large measure, because of subprime lending.”  A February 2002  report  by the General Accounting Office
blamed the bank’s collapse on those who ran it.  “Primary responsibility for the failure of Superior Bank
resides with its owners and managers,” the GAO said. “Its
strategy resulted in a high concentration of extremely risky
assets. This high concentration of risky assets and the improper
valuation of these assets ultimately led to Superior’s
failure.”  The thrift, with $2.3 billion in assets, used improper
accounting and record-keeping, the report said.  Uninsured Claims  About 1,000 customers had about $43 million in potentially
uninsured deposits, the FDIC  said  at the time of the failure.
There were $10.2 million in uninsured deposit claims as of March
31, 2013, the regulator said.  Dworman, through spokesman  Andy Merrill , declined an
interview request about the bank’s failure.  In his 2006 deposition, Dworman presented himself as a
mostly silent investor who dealt almost exclusively with Jay
Pritzker until his 1999 death. He said Penny Pritzker played a
leadership role at the bank amid the negotiations with
regulators in 2001.  “Jay was dead,” he said. “There was nobody to talk to.
The family decided that they should take over the bank. They had
a meeting at the bank, told the employees not to worry. I saw a
letter that Penny Pritzker wrote personally saying we are doing
the bank deal.”  After the depositers’ court case ended unsuccessfully,
Krislov said he wrote Penny Pritzker asking the family to cover
the roughly $10 million in deposits not covered by insurance, an
amount he now calls “pin money” for the family.  “I never got a response,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  