-- Puerto Rico Avoiding Junk Plans 67% Water-Rate Hike: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-05-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/puerto-rico-avoiding-junk-plans-67-water-rate-hike-muni-credit.html
Bonds of the  Puerto Rico  agency that
is the commonwealth’s sole water provider are the most expensive
this year as the authority plans to boost rates by 67 percent
and wean itself from government financing.  Puerto Rico’s Aqueduct & Sewer Authority, which serves 1.3
million customers and has about $3.4 billion of junk-rated debt,
anticipates increasing water bills July 1 as the commonwealth
plans to end subsidies. Some investors are treating the debt as
if it were investment grade because of the planned rate boost
and goals to reduce leaks, said Robert Amodeo, a portfolio
manager at Western Asset Management.  Improving the self-sufficiency of the island’s public
corporations is a pillar of Governor Alejandro Garcia Padilla’s
plan to end 15 straight years of budget deficits and preserve
the self-governing commonwealth’s investment grade. Debt of
Puerto Rico and its localities is tax-exempt in all U.S. states,
leading investors across the $3.7 trillion municipal market to
buy it for national and state-specific funds.  “There’s opportunity to buy yield in a marketplace with a
credit that’s just below investment grade that has the potential
to regain its footing,” said Amodeo, who oversees $30 billion
of munis, including Puerto Rico debt, in  New York .  Agency Plan  The major credit-rating companies grade Puerto Rico one
step above speculative grade with a negative outlook. To
preserve the commonwealth’s investment grade, Garcia Padilla,
41, wants to boost rates for the sewer authority, while also
raising taxes on oil products and other fees to generate revenue
for the Highways & Transportation Authority. The cash will
reduce the agencies’ reliance on the island’s general-fund
revenue.  “We need to achieve that goal without stopping the
economic growth that we’re already achieving,” the governor,
who took office in January, said in an interview in  San Juan  on
May 17.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Puerto Rico’s rating Dec. 13
to Baa3, pushing the aqueduct agency, which is linked to the
commonwealth, into junk territory. The company cited pension and
budget gaps and a weak economy for the lower grade. The governor
is struggling to reduce the island’s jobless rate and bolster a
retirement system with 6.8 percent of the assets needed to cover
obligations, a lower ratio than any U.S. state.  Island Outperformer  Still, some of the water authority’s bonds are more
expensive than investment-grade debt. Yields on agency bonds
maturing in July 2042 were  1 percentage point  less than a 30-year index of revenue securities rated two steps above junk, the
biggest gap since Dec. 3, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Borrowings of Puerto Rico and its local issuers are off to
the best annual start since 2009 as investors hunt for extra
yield with municipal  interest rates  near generational lows.
Bonds from the island of 3.7 million people have earned 3.8
percent this year, beating all states and territories, Barclays
Plc data show.  Amid that rally, buyers are demanding a smaller yield
penalty on water-agency securities relative to benchmark debt.  Bonds maturing in July 2042 were valued by BVAL analysis at
a yield spread of about 2.3 percentage points, down from 3.7
percentage points the day before Moody’s downgraded the water
authority. The spread is still up from 2 percentage points when
the authority sold the bonds in February 2012.  Junk Domain  The junk label put the water agency in the domain of high-yield portfolios, which have been adding assets for almost three
years, said Jim Colby, who helps manage $2.2 billion as senior
muni strategist at Van Eck Global in New York. Speculative-grade
bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s .  “High-yield funds have been looking for ways to continue
to diversify and still deliver competitive yields,” Colby said.
With the authority “being downgraded to below investment grade,
that clearly puts that particular agency in the crosshairs for
all high-yield funds.”  Officials anticipate the rate increase, which the board may
vote on in June, will generate an extra $485 million annually,
boosting the average household water bill by $20 a month. The
agency will need the revenue to help support a $1.5 billion
five-year capital program to modernize pipelines and meet
federal requirements.  Annual Costs  Annual debt-service costs are set to more than double to
$421 million in fiscal 2017, according to a presentation by
Alberto Lazaro, executive director of the water agency, during
an annual conference last week on the island’s finances.  “We are a public corporation and a public corporation
should behave like one,” Lazaro said in an interview. A subsidy
that isn’t tied to recurring funds “is not healthy for us or
for the investors.”  The revenue influx will also help the authority borrow. The
agency plans to sell about $700 million of bonds in 2014 that
will refund short-term debt and finance capital projects, Efrain
Acosta, the authority’s chief financial officer, said in an
interview.  About 64 percent of the agency’s water is lost through
theft or leaks, above the 12 percent industry average among U.S.
water utilities, said Doug Scott, a Fitch Ratings analyst.  The authority is replacing faulty meters, searching for
leaks and implementing a database that will identify and map
customers to reduce water losses, Lazaro said.  “It’s going to take time, but they can find operational
efficiencies by reducing the leakage,” Amodeo said.  NYC Sells  Elsewhere in the municipal market,  New York City  is set to
price general-obligation debt today with benchmark muni yields
at the highest in about six weeks.  At  1.86 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year local debt
compare with 1.93 percent on similar-maturity Treasuries,
Bloomberg data show. The ratio of the two interest rates, at
about  97 percent , is above the average since 2001, of about 92
percent.  The higher the percentage, the cheaper munis are relative
to federal debt. Munis have outpaced Treasuries this month,
losing 0.3 percent, compared with a decline of 1 percent for
federal notes, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  