-- Qatar Central Bank Still Backs Riyal-Dollar Peg, Governor Says
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2013-05-22T11:25:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/qatar-central-bank-still-backs-riyal-dollar-peg-governor-says.html
Qatar’s central bank governor said
his country hasn’t changed its support for pegging the riyal to
the U.S. dollar after Reuters reported that the bank’s director
of research urged a more flexible  exchange rate .  “He is not reflecting the central bank,” Governor
Abdullah Saud Al Thani said in a phone interview, referring to
the remarks by research director Khalid Alkhater.  A “more flexible exchange rate” than the dollar peg would
be better for managing inflation risks over the next 10 years,
Alkhater said in prepared remarks for a conference, according to
a  Reuters story  carried by the Gulf Times.  The peg limits the ability of central banks to set
independent monetary policy. Kuwait is the only member of the
six-member Gulf Cooperation Council, which also includes Saudi
Arabia, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Oman, that doesn’t
peg its currency to the  U.S. dollar .  Qatar hasn’t altered its benchmark  interest rate  since
August 2011, when it cut the overnight lending rate 50 basis
points to 4.5 percent, the second reduction in a year.  The Qatari currency traded at an average of 3.641 riyals to
the dollar over the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Qatar, the world’s biggest producer of liquefied natural
gas, plans to invest $200 billion in infrastructure projects
such as roads, stadiums, hotels and a rail network, before
hosting the soccer  World Cup  in 2022. Inflation in the country
accelerated to an annual 3.7 percent in April, the fastest rate
since at least February 2010, when  Bloomberg started keeping
records .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  