-- Rand Has Worst Streak Since 2008,Fed Hints at QE End
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-05-22T20:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/rand-weakens-in-worst-streak-since-2008-as-fed-hints-at-qe-end.html
(Corrects name of organization in second paragraph.)  The rand fell for a 10th day in its
longest losing streak in five years after Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said monthly bond purchases may be
slowed and South African clothing workers went on strike.  The currency reversed earlier gains against the dollar as
Bernanke said the Fed could taper asset buying at its next few
meetings if it can be confident of sustained gains in the U.S.
economy. That helped ease demand for emerging-market assets seen
as riskier by investors. About 10,000 workers in the
southeastern KwaZulu-Natal province went on strike to protest
wage levels that the Southern African Clothing & Textile Union
says are below the legal minimum.  The clothing workers’ strike follows almost two weeks of
unrest in the country’s mines, including a strike at Lonmin
Plc’s Marikana platinum mine. South Africa has the world’s
largest known reserves of the metal and is the continent’s top
gold producer.  “It’s really just a perfect storm at the moment,”  Brigid Taylor , head of institutional flow sales at Nedbank Group Ltd.
in Johannesburg, said by phone today. The rand weakened 0.1
percent to 9.5576 per dollar by 6:58 p.m. in Johannesburg after
strengthening as much as 1.2 percent earlier. It’s the worst
performer among 24 major emerging-market economies tracked by
Bloomberg this month.  Companies, the government and labor unions need to show
“spectacular leadership,” South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said on Johannesburg-based state-owned SAFM radio
today, as union rivalry at the country’s platinum mines
escalated following the assassination of a union official from
the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union on May 11.  Government Debt  Yields on 10.5 percent bonds due December 2026 declined
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.01 percent
today after surging 21 basis points in the previous two days.  South Africa’s central bank will announce its decision on
its benchmark interest rate tomorrow. Forward-rate agreements
starting in December rose one basis points to 4.92 percent, the
highest since April 26, as investors pared back rate-cut
expectations.  The contracts are trading 19 basis points below the
Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate, implying less than a 50
percent chance of a rate cut this year. As recently as May 9,
they were pricing in an 80 percent probability of a cut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  