-- Treasury 10-Year Notes Little Changed Before Bernanke Testimony
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-05-22T12:51:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/treasury-to-corporate-yield-gap-narrows-before-bernanke-speech.html
Treasuries were little changed before
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies to Congress
amid speculation he will emphasize the need to maintain
monetary-stimulus measures.  Benchmark  10-year yields  traded at almost the highest level
in two months after Fed Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said a decision on stimulus will take as long as four
months. While several central-bank officials have voiced support
for tapering asset purchases, Dudley, who is also vice chairman
of the  Federal Open Market Committee , said yesterday he hasn’t
decided whether the Fed’s next move should be to enlarge or to
shrink bond-buying. The Fed is scheduled to publish the  minutes 
of its policy meeting held April 30 to May 1 at 2 p.m.  Bernanke “will say as he did at the last FOMC, that they
are just as likely to raise purchases as lower them,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at Daiwa Capital Markets
America Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.
“It will be both bond friendly and stock friendly.”  U.S. 10-year notes  yielded  1.93 percent at 8:48 a.m. New
York time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The rate
rose to 1.99 percent yesterday, the most since March 15. The
price of the 1.75 percent security due in May 2023 traded at 98
13/32.  Inflation Measure  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities was at 2.27
percentage points today, at almost the 2.23 percentage points
reached May 17, the least since Aug. 9, according to Bloomberg
data. The  consumer price index  decreased 0.4 percent, the
biggest decline since December 2008, after falling 0.2 percent
in March, according to Labor Department figures released last
week.  The Treasury will sell $13 billion in 10-year TIPS
tomorrow. It sold an equal amount of the securities on March 21
at a yield of negative 0.602 percent.  Ten-year Treasury yields will be 2.18 percent by year-end,
according a Bloomberg survey of financial companies. The
projection has declined from this year’s high of 2.33 percent in
February.  Bernanke is scheduled to speak at 10 a.m. in  Washington .
Fed officials this month have expressed a range of views on the
U.S.’s economic outlook and the timing of tapering stimulus
measures. The Fed said after a policy meeting on May 1 it will
maintain stimulus as long as the outlook for inflation doesn’t
exceed 2.5 percent and as unemployment remains above 6.5
percent.  Fiscal Drag  “I don’t really understand very well how the tug-of-war
between the fiscal drag and the improving economy are going to
sort of work their way out,” Dudley said in an interview with
 Michael McKee  airing today on Bloomberg Television. “Three or
four months from now I think you’re going to have a much better
sense of, is the economy healthy enough to overcome the fiscal
drag or not.”  The comments came after he said yesterday that the
“uncertain outlook” means the next move in stimulus may be an
increase or a decrease.  Treasury yields have advanced this month as Philadelphia
Fed President  Charles Plosser  called for shrinking purchases at
the Fed’s next meeting and  San Francisco ’s  John Williams  said he
favored a reduction in quantitative easing “perhaps as early as
this summer.” By contrast,  Boston ’s  Eric Rosengren  said low
inflation and high unemployment suggest there may be a need for
even more stimulus, not less.  Reducing QE  The Fed is purchasing $85 billion of government and
mortgage debt each month to cap borrowing costs and help the
economy. The U.S. central bank will purchase up to $1.75 billion
in notes today maturing between February 2036 and May 2043.  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 2.5 percent
annualized rate in the first quarter, according to the Commerce
Department. The gain followed a 0.4 percent fourth-quarter
advance, the slowest since the start of 2011.  U.S. existing homes sales rose 1.4 percent in April from
March to an annual rate of 4.99 million units, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. The National Association of
Realtors is scheduled to report the figure at 10 a.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  