-- U.S. 10-Year Yield Tops 2% as Bernanke Says Fed May Taper Buys
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-05-22T21:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/treasuries-extend-gains-as-bernanke-says-stimulus-still-needed.html
Treasuries fell, pushing 10-year note
yields above 2 percent for the first time since March, after
Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke told Congress the Fed
may cut the pace of bond purchases at the next few meetings if
policy makers see indications of sustained economic growth.  U.S. debt  rose  earlier as Bernanke told Congress the
economy remains hampered by unemployment and government-spending
cuts and that reducing stimulus too soon would endanger the
recovery. Many Fed officials said more progress in the jobs
market is needed before any slowing to the pace of quantitative
easing, according to meeting minutes. Benchmark yields increased
as a report showed sales of previously owned U.S. homes rose in
April to the highest level in more than three years.  “The market seized upon the bit of the Q&A exchange about
the anticipated timeframe about an adjustment to QE,” said
Christopher Sullivan, who oversees $2.1 billion as chief
investment officer at United Nations Federal Credit Union in New
York. “The Fed remains highly data dependent. The market is
very skittish right now.”  U.S. 10-year notes  yields  rose 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 2.04 percent at 4:59 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The yield is the
highest since March 15. The price of the 1.75 percent security
due in May 2023 lost one point, or $10.00 per $1,000 face
amount, to 97 13/32.  Thirty-year bond yields rose nine basis points to 3.22
percent.  Market Measure  Trading  volume  surged to $660 billion, the highest level in
data going back to 2004, according to ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of U.S. government debt. The previous high
was $622 billion in August 2007. Average daily volume for this
year has been $290 billion.  Volatility in the Treasury market reached the highest level
in almost four months. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE
index measuring price swings in Treasuries rose to 65.37 basis
points, the highest level since Jan. 31, after falling May 9 to
an all-time low of 48.87 basis points. The measure averaged
62.46 basis points during the past 12 months.  Bond-market measures from overnight index swaps projects
the federal funds rate may see its first 25 basis point increase
in April 2015, compared with a forecast of August 2015 based on
figures on May 13. The Fed has held its target interest rate at
a record low zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Treasuries rose earlier as Bernanke referenced the risks
associated with ending easy monetary policy.  Bernanke Remarks  “A premature tightening of monetary policy could lead
interest rates to rise temporarily but would also carry a
substantial risk of slowing or ending the economic recovery and
causing inflation to fall further,” Bernanke said today in
testimony prepared for a hearing at the Joint Economic Committee
of Congress in  Washington .  In response to questions, Bernanke also indicated the
central bank may reduce its stimulus at some point.  “If we see continued improvement, and we have confidence
that that is going to be sustained, in the next few meetings we
could take a step down in our pace of purchases,” Bernanke
said.  “We are seeing overreactions both ways in the market,”
said Larry Milstein, managing director in New York of
government-debt trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co. “Initially,
the move was on the more dovish tone from Bernanke. References
for the possibility of tapering at upcoming meetings have thrown
the market off a bit, leaving rates somewhat weaker.”  FOMC Minutes  Fed policy makers said May 1 they may accelerate or slow
monthly purchases of $40 billion in mortgage securities and $45
billion of Treasuries in response to changes in the labor market
and inflation  “Most observed that the outlook for the labor market had
shown progress” since the-bond buying program began in
September, according to the record of the April 30-May 1
gathering released today in Washington. “But many of these
participants indicated that continued progress, more confidence
in the outlook, or diminished downside risks would be required
before slowing the pace of purchases would become appropriate.”  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and similar-maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities was at 2.25
percentage points today, at almost the 2.23 percentage points
reached May 17, the least since Aug. 9, according to Bloomberg
data. The consumer price index decreased 0.4 percent, the
biggest decline since December 2008, after falling 0.2 percent
in March, according to Labor Department figures released last
week.  TIPS Sale  The Treasury will sell $13 billion in 10-year TIPS
tomorrow. It sold an equal amount of the securities on March 21
at a yield of negative 0.602 percent. It will announce tomorrow
the amounts it will sell in two-, five- and seven-year debt on
three consecutive days beginning May 28.  At the previous auction of the securities in April, the
U.S. sold $35 billion in two-year notes, an equal amount in
five-year debt and $29 billion in seven-year securities.  Yields rose as a report showed  purchases  of existing houses
increased 0.6 percent to an annual rate of 4.97 million, the
most since November 2009, the National Association of Realtors
reported today in Washington. The median forecast of 79
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a pickup to a 4.99
million pace.  Treasury yields have advanced this month as Philadelphia
Fed President Charles Plosser called for shrinking purchases at
the Fed’s next meeting and San Francisco’s John Williams said he
favored a reduction in quantitative easing “perhaps as early as
this summer.” By contrast,  Boston ’s  Eric Rosengren  said low
inflation and high unemployment suggest there may be a need for
even more stimulus, not less.  “Yields have bottomed, but won’t rise dramatically,”  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest fixed-income fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., wrote in a Twitter post.
Gross said on May 10 that the 30-year bull market for bonds has
“likely ended” and that fixed-income returns will probably be
in the range of 2 percent to 3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  