-- Romania Is Forecast to Receive Rainfall Amid Drought Conditions
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-05-22T15:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/romania-is-forecast-to-receive-rainfall-amid-drought-conditions.html
Romania , the European Union’s fourth-largest wheat exporter, is forecast to get rain over the next
seven days that might ease drought conditions in the main grain-growing regions in the south and east.  Rain may take the form of torrential showers accompanied by
lightning and wind, as well as hail in some cases, the National
Meteorological Administration wrote today in an agriculture-weather  bulletin  for the May 23-29 period.  Parts of the Dobrogea, Muntenia, Oltenia, Banat and Moldova
regions face soil-moisture deficits and moderate to strong
drought, according to the weather office. The regions make up
about 78 percent of Romania’s wheat-cultivation  area  and 77
percent for corn, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show.  “Wheat may be facing some moisture stress, but there’s not
too much worry due to the rain forecast for next week,” Paul Gaffet, an analyst at farm adviser Offre & Demande Agricole,
said by phone from Bourges,  France . “The entire grain-filling
stage is still ahead. In principle, if the rain falls, that
should improve conditions.”  Only France, Germany and  Bulgaria  ranked ahead of Romania
among wheat shippers in the 27-nation EU last year, according to
statistics from the bloc. Romania typically harvests its crop in
July and August, according to the USDA.  Corn faces low moisture levels in the upper 50 centimeters
(20 inches) of soil, resulting in moderate to locally strong
drought for the crop in most growing areas, according to the
meteorological administration.  Romania’s corn harvest slumped 46 percent to 5.61 million
metric tons last year after a heat wave lowered yields, the
International Grains Council estimates. The crop is usually
planted in April and May, according to the USDA.  Soil moisture in the country’s north and center will be
“satisfactory” and close to optimal in some areas, according
to the weather office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  