-- Royal Caribbean Vote Pits Chairman Against Biggest Holder
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-05-22T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/royal-caribbean-vote-pits-chairman-against-biggest-holder.html
Royal Caribbean Ltd. (RCL) ’s largest
investor is challenging Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Richard Fain by supporting a plan that could lead to a board
shakeup at the second-largest cruise operator.  Investors vote today on a non-binding shareholder proposal
calling for the elimination of staggered directors’ terms at
Miami-based Royal Caribbean. The company opposes the plan, which
would have each board member come up for an annual vote. The
measure is supported by Oslo-based A. Wilhelmsen AS, owner of a
19 percent stake, whose chairman, Arne Alexander Wilhelmsen, is
a Royal Caribbean director.  Backing from A. Wilhelmsen may be enough to pass the
measure, after a similar initiative in 2009 was endorsed by 29
percent of shares voted. A. Wilhelmsen didn’t support the plan
four years ago, said a person close to the company. Both
Institutional Shareholder Services and Glass Lewis & Co. have
recommended in favor of the activist proposal.  “When the largest shareholder wants it, I think that’s a
big signal,” said D. Daniel Sokol, who teaches corporate law at
the University of  Florida  in Gainesville. “They’re responding
to a larger trend for what constitutes good corporate
governance.”  Passage could herald changes at Royal Caribbean, including
separation of the chairman and CEO roles as well as turnover at
the board, said investor Robert Kurte, who with his father
sponsored both proposals.  ‘Growing Trend’  “That’s a good, positive sign that there’s some hope for
change,” Kurte, a 42-year-old consultant in Weston, Florida,
said of Wilhelmsen’s decision. “It’s time for some of these
longstanding directors to give up their posts.”  Until 2011 A. Wilhelmsen, which owns shipping and real
estate interests, was part of an agreement to vote its shares
with the next-largest investor, Cruise Associates, comprised of
members of  Chicago ’s Pritzker family and  Israel ’s Ofer clan.
Together, the three own about 36 percent of Royal Caribbean,
 data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Staggered boards are a hurdle to activist investors because
they require a multi-year effort to make changes. Directors at
the company currently serve three-year terms, with no more than
four standing for election at a time.  “Royal Caribbean shareholders would be better served by a
board whose members are elected annually,” A. Wilhelmsen said
in a statement last week.  Thomas Pritzker, 62, a Royal Caribbean board member who is
up for re-election, didn’t return a call seeking comment. He is
chairman of  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  Royal Caribbean director Eyal Ofer, a 62-year-old shipping and real-estate magnate worth $6.1
billion according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , declined
to comment, according to a representative.  Experienced Board  Royal Caribbean fell 2.4 percent to $36.89 yesterday in  New
York , after larger rival  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  cut its forecast for the
rest of the year. Royal Caribbean has advanced 8.5 percent this
year,  lagging  behind the 17 percent rise in the Russell 1000
Index.  While board structure isn’t a major concern at Royal
Caribbean, the proposal is “part of the move to improve
transparency and shareholder returns” at all companies,
according to Joshua Herrity, an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group
in New York. He said the management is viewed as stable.  The cruise operator’s incorporation articles prevent third
parties other than A. Wilhelmsen and Cruise Associates from
buying more than 4.9 percent of its stock without board consent,
according to its annual report.  Today’s meeting will be held at 9 a.m. local time in Miami.
In Royal Caribbean’s proxy statement opposing the proposal, the
company cited the “increased continuity, depth of knowledge and
focus on the long-term” of the present board.  The shareholder plan isn’t unique to Royal Caribbean,
Cynthia Martinez, a company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. She
said the proxy outlines the company’s position.  Management Moat  The Kurtes pointed to studies showing an association
between companies with staggered boards and lower valuations,
smaller gains from buyouts, and less linkage between pay to
performance.  “A staggered board can entrench management and effectively
preclude most takeover bids or proxy contests,” Institutional
Shareholder Services said in its report. “All directors should
be accountable on an annual basis.”  Some Royal Caribbean directors have served for 20 years or
more, said Kurte, who with his father, Harold, owns 1,000
shares.  “They’re overall a well-managed company, but there are
certain oversight questions that the board needs to address,”
Kurte said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  