-- Royal Caribbean Holders Back Board Plan Opposed by CEO
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   A n n a   E d g e r t o n
-- 2013-05-22T22:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/royal-caribbean-holders-back-board-plan-opposed-by-ceo.html
Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. (RCL) 
shareholders approved an non-binding resolution to eliminate
staggered terms for directors, dealing a defeat to Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Richard Fain.  The measure passed with backing from more than 72 percent
of shares voted, company officials said today at Royal
Caribbean’s annual meeting in Miami. The company’s largest
investor, Oslo-based A. Wilhelmsen AS, said last week it would
vote its 19 percent stake in favor of the proposal.  Fain said at the meeting that the board, which opposed the
measure, would consider the results. Its passage could lead to
broader changes, including separation of the chairman and CEO
roles and turnover at the board, said investor Robert Kurte, who
with his father sponsored the proposal and a similar one that
failed in 2009.  ‘We are pleased with today’s results,’’ Kurte, a 42-year-old consultant in Weston,  Florida , said at the meeting. “We
look forward to working with the board to see the
declassification proposal put into effect.”  The Kurtes’ plan calls for each board member to come up for
an annual vote. Directors at the company currently serve three-year terms, with no more than four standing for election at a
time.  Such staggering of board terms presents a hurdle to
activist investors, because they require a multi-year effort to
make changes. Advisory firms Institutional Shareholder Services
and Glass Lewis & Co. recommended in favor of the plan.  Shareholder Switch  “We take these things very seriously and the board will
look very closely at the proposal,” Fain, 65, said in an
interview. “We’re very conscious of trying to have good
corporate governance on all levels.”  Royal Caribbean slipped 1.9 percent to $36.18 at the close
in  New York . The shares have advanced 6.4 percent this year,
 lagging  behind the 16 percent rise in the Russell 1000 Index.  A. Wilhelmsen, which owns shipping and real estate
interests, didn’t support the plan four years ago, a person
close to the company said yesterday. Chairman Arne Alexander Wilhelmsen is a Royal Caribbean director.  “When the largest shareholder wants it, I think that’s a
big signal,” D. Daniel Sokol, who teaches corporate law at the
University of Florida in Gainesville, said before the vote.
“They’re responding to a larger trend for what constitutes good
corporate governance.”  Until 2011, A. Wilhelmsen was part of an agreement to vote
its shares with the next-largest investor, Cruise Associates,
comprised of members of  Chicago ’s Pritzker family and  Israel ’s
Ofer clan. Together, the three own about 36 percent of Royal
Caribbean,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Board Consent  “Royal Caribbean shareholders would be better served by a
board whose members are elected annually,” A. Wilhelmsen said
in a statement last week.  Thomas Pritzker, 62, a Royal Caribbean board member who was
re-elected, didn’t return a call seeking comment this week. He
is chairman of  Hyatt Hotels Corp. (H)  Royal Caribbean director Eyal Ofer, a 62-year-old shipping and real-estate magnate worth $6.1
billion according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , declined
to comment, according to a representative.  The cruise operator’s incorporation articles prevent third
parties other than A. Wilhelmsen and Cruise Associates from
buying more than 4.9 percent of its stock without board consent,
according to its annual report.  ‘Things Change’  In Royal Caribbean’s proxy statement opposing the proposal,
the company cited the “increased continuity, depth of knowledge
and focus on the long-term” of the present board.  “Things change, I think the view in society of what’s best
in corporate governance changes, and we’ve seen similar
proposals have resonated with a large number of investors,” not
only at Royal Caribbean, Fain said in the interview. He said he
didn’t think the chairman and CEO roles would be split.  The Kurtes had pointed to studies showing an association
between companies with staggered boards and lower valuations,
smaller gains from buyouts, and less linkage between pay to
performance.  “A staggered board can entrench management and effectively
preclude most takeover bids or proxy contests,” Institutional
Shareholder Services said in its report. “All directors should
be accountable on an annual basis.”  Some Royal Caribbean directors have served for 20 years or
more, said Kurte, who with his father, Harold, owns 1,000
shares.  “They’re overall a well-managed company, but there are
certain oversight questions that the board needs to address,”
Kurte said before the vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Edgerton in Miami at 
 aedgerton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  