-- Russia Gas-Tax Shift to Help Producers From Gazprom to Novatek
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2013-05-22T15:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/russia-gas-tax-shift-to-help-producers-from-gazprom-to-novatek.html
Russia plans to switch from a flat
rate of tax on natural gas producers to a formula that takes
into account energy prices and the difficulty of extracting the
fuel, according to a draft released today.  The formula reflects depletion rates, depths of reservoirs
and the location of producing fields, and is linked to domestic
and export gas prices, as well as the price of oil, according to
the proposal  published  on the Finance Ministry’s website. Expert
feedback is invited through June 5.  The draft, the result of months of discussion with
companies, must be signed into law by President  Vladimir Putin .
Linking the tax to regulated domestic gas prices, which the
government may decide to rein in, reduces risks for both  OAO
Gazprom (OGZD) , which holds the monopoly on exports and transport of
gas in Russia, and independents such as  OAO Novatek (NVTK) , said  Ronald Smith , an oil and gas analyst at Citigroup Inc. in Moscow.  Gazprom will get “more flexibility on taxation should  oil
prices  and/or European realized gas price go into decline,” he
said in a note today.  The draft is welcome because “it brings clarity and keeps
the current level of the tax rate for both Gazprom and
independents, meaning there won’t be any sharp increases,”
Ildar Davletshin, an oil and gas analyst at  Renaissance Capital 
in Moscow, said by phone today.  Novatek “will continue to enjoy a substantially lower
average tax rate than Gazprom, of approximately 35 percent,”
analysts at Otkritie, led by Alexander Burgansky, said in a
research note.  Novatek may benefit from the discount on deeper deposits,
while Gazprom’s key savings are “in the production shift to
Yamal assets and core fields depletion” Artem Konchin and
Andrey Gromadin, analysts at JPMorgan, said in a note.  While not introducing tax breaks for specific fields, the
formula sets coefficients for fields located in the Yamal and
Gydan peninsulas in the Arctic region, southern Astrakhan
region, eastern Siberian Irkutsk region, in the Far East and the
Sea of Okhotsk, according to the draft.  The document also sets the mineral extraction tax formula
for gas condensate, while the gas  tax rate  will depend on the
share of condensate in the total production mix.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  