-- Russia Cancels Bond Auction as Rate Outlook Drives Up Yields
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-05-22T12:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/russia-shelves-bond-auction-citing-lack-of-competitive-bids.html
Russia abandoned the sale of $1.1
billion of ruble bonds, the first cancellation of an auction
since October, after yields surged on concern policy makers will
refuse to lower  interest rates  to bolster growth.  The  Finance Ministry  planned to offer 33.6 billion rubles
($1.1 billion) of December 2019 OFZ bonds in today’s auction at
a yield range of 6.33 percent to 6.38 percent. The yield jumped
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 6.47 percent by
4 p.m. in Moscow, the highest in almost two weeks, after rising
six basis points yesterday.  “Expectations of monetary easing by the central bank have
not come true so far,” Anton Nikitin, an analyst at VTB
Capital, said by phone in Moscow. “Many positioned themselves
with the idea that the monetary easing will be rather aggressive
and fast.”  Bank Rossii kept its main interest rates unchanged for the
eighth straight month on May 15 citing elevated inflation, which
quickened to 7.2 percent in April. First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said at an investment conference in  London  yesterday
that “the situation from the economic point of view has more or
less stabilized” and further easing isn’t warranted.  The yield on Russia’s ruble bonds due February 2027 fell 55
basis points, or 0.55 percentage point, last month to a record
6.80 percent as investors bet the regulator would cut rates to
boost an economy that’s expanding at the weakest pace since a
2009 contraction. The yield has risen 29 basis points this
month. The ruble strengthened 0.2 percent to 31.1770 against the
dollar today.  Slowing Growth  Russia’s economy may expand as much as 3 percent this year,
Ulyukayev said. That would be the slowest pace since 2009, when
gross domestic product shrank 7.8 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Industrial output slowed less than forecast in April,
growing 2.3 percent from a year earlier after a 2.6 percent
increase in March, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said
today in an e-mailed statement. The median estimate of 21
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 2 percent increase.  While President  Vladimir Putin  has urged ministers to boost
the economy and policy makers from  Poland  to  India  reduced
borrowing costs to aid growth, Bank Rossii has held the
 refinancing rate  at 8.25 percent since September with inflation
at least one percentage point above its target this year.  U.S. Stimulus  Any monetary easing is “likely to worsen the situation,”
former Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  said at a conference
organized by VTB Capital yesterday. Russia needs “structural
measures” and the economy of the world’s largest energy
exporter remains too dependent on oil, he said.  Russia issued almost all the debt it offered at last week’s
auction after selling out at the three previous offerings. The
2019 notes yielded 6.36 percent on May 20, the day before the
ministry gave the guidance, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Russian debt
rather than U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points to 181,
according to JPMorgan indexes. The difference compares with 168
for notes of  Mexico  and 180 for  Brazil .  Appetite for Russian bonds is waning as some investors
speculate U.S. monetary stimulus will be scaled back, Dmitriy
Gritskevich, an analyst at OAO Promsvyazbank said yesterday.  U.S. Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C.
Dudley said policy makers will know in three to four months
whether the economy is healthy enough to overcome  federal budget 
cuts and allow the central bank to begin reducing record
stimulus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  