-- Russia Faces Widening 2014 Budget Deficit, Siluanov Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-05-22T10:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/russia-faces-widening-2014-budget-deficit-siluanov-says.html
Russia ’s  federal budget  deficit will
probably widen next year more than previously planned as a
weaker economy risks erasing 650 billion rubles ($20.8 billion)
in revenue, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said.  The shortfall will stem from reduced oil and gas revenue as
well as a drop in other earnings, Siluanov told reporters today
at the lower house of parliament in Moscow. Spending plans
already set in the three-year budget for 2014 and 2015 won’t be
reduced, meaning the deficit will probably increase, he said.  The economy of the world’s largest energy exporter, which
counts on income from oil and gas sales for about half of the
budget’s revenue, is expanding at the weakest pace since a 2009
contraction. Weakening growth is hurting tax intake this year,
which may keep the government from sending planned extra revenue
to the  Reserve Fund , Andrei Makarov, a lawmaker with the ruling
United Russia party, said at a hearing today.  “The forecast we adopted indicates lower budget revenue,
because economic growth and the volume of imports are revised
downward, while the ruble’s exchange rate is seen stronger,”
Siluanov said.  Some of the shortfall will be covered by conditionally
approved expenses, which can be curtailed in the event of a
revenue shortfall, he said. The ministry’s proposals on the main
parameters of the next three-year budget may be ready by June,
he added.  Urals crude , Russia’s main export blend, has averaged
$107.51 a barrel this year, compared with $110.26 in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  ruble  has weakened
1.3 percent against the central bank’s basket of dollars and
euros to 35.3103 as of 1:26 p.m.  Fiscal Gap  The federal government run a deficit of 0.4 percent of
gross domestic product through the first four months, compared
with a balanced budget last year, according to the Finance
Ministry. This year’s budget was approved with a shortfall of
0.8 percent of GDP, with the 2014 gap projected at 0.2 percent
of GDP, according to the law approved in December.  Policy makers are trying to ease the budget’s reliance on
oil revenue by sending earnings above a certain crude price to
the country’s sovereign wealth funds.  Russia will probably require an average Brent oil price of
$117.8 a barrel this year to balance its budget, the fifth
straight year it’s needed crude above $100 and compared with
break-even prices of $90.3 for  Saudi Arabia  and $65 for
 Kazakhstan , Deutsche Bank AG said in a May 10 report.  Fivefold Increase  Russia has seen a more than a fivefold increase from 2006,
when it needed Brent to average $21.4, according to Deutsche
Bank. Brent is the benchmark used to price more than half of the
world’s oil, including Urals.  Finance Ministry  officials are meeting with one of the main
international credit-rating companies this week to discuss
Russia’s fiscal projections, as well as policy plans, Siluanov
told reporters. He said he didn’t expect an upgrade to Russia’s
rating immediately and declined to identify the company.  Moody’s Investors Service, the only company that didn’t
downgrade Russia during the 2008-2009 global financial crisis,
affirmed the country’s sovereign debt grade at Baa1, the third-lowest investment grade, in March. The outlook is stable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  