-- Russia April Industrial Output Slowed Less Than Forecast
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-05-22T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/russia-april-industrial-output-slowed-less-than-forecast.html
Russian  industrial-output  growth
slowed as a stalling economy and weakening exports hurt demand.  Production at manufacturers, mines and utilities grew 2.3
percent in April from a year earlier after a 2.6 percent
increase in March, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said
today in an e-mailed statement. The median estimate of 21
economists in a Bloomberg  survey  was for a 2 percent increase.  The economy of the world’s largest energy exporter grew
last quarter at the weakest pace in more than three years as a
recession in the euro area extended to a record. Weaker demand
for metals dented earnings at companies including  OAO Severstal (SVST) 
and  OAO Novolipetsk Steel. (NLMK)   “We’re not expecting a contraction in industrial
production because there’s nowhere further to fall,” Dmitry Dolgin, an economist  Alfa Bank  in Moscow, said by phone before
the release. April’s data will probably show “inertia” among
producers, he said.  Russian manufacturing advanced 1.2 percent from a year
earlier in April, down from 3.4 percent the previous month,
according to the statement. Mining grew 2.6 percent while
production at utilities increased 2.8 percent.  Russia ’s economy grew 1.6 percent from a year earlier in
the first three months of the year, decelerating for a fifth
quarter, the statistics service said last week. The benchmark
 Micex Index (INDEXCF)  of 50 stocks has fallen 2.4 percent this year,
compared with a 0.6 percent decline in the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index.  Car Sales  Deteriorating domestic demand has taken a toll on
carmakers, with sales of new vehicles dropping 8 percent in
April from a year ago, according to the Association of European
Businesses in Russia. That was the biggest drop since February
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The deterioration in car sales contrasts with a 9 percent
increase in cement production in April, which suggests a pickup
in construction, said Jacob Nell, Moscow-based chief economist
for Russia at Morgan Stanley.  “The cement number is more likely to be a good guide to
what’s happening in the economy,” Nell said in a phone
interview. “After a number of years of high  oil prices  and full
unemployment, you’d expect to see a pickup in construction.”  President  Vladimir Putin  ordered senior policy makers
including Elvira Nabiullina, who takes over as Russia’s central
bank chairman next month, to draft plans to bolster economic
growth.  Justified Policy  While officials including Economy Minister Andrei Belousov
have argued that high  interest rates  are stifling output, Putin
called the central bank’s stance justified as it seeks to bring
inflation back down to this year’s target range.  “It’s really in doubt whether industrial production can
expand faster than 2.5 percent without a change in the domestic
economic environment,” said Dmitry Savchenko, an analyst at
Nordea Bank AB in Moscow. After the contractions earlier this
year, Nordea’s forecast for a 1.5 percent advance “may seem
optimistic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  