-- S. Africa’s ANC Criticizes Circumcision Investigation
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-05-22T16:32:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/s-africa-s-anc-criticizes-circumcision-investigation.html
South Africa ’s ruling  African
National Congress  criticized the slow pace of a police
investigation into the death of 35 young men during traditional
initiation ceremonies.  Twenty-nine boys and young men 13 years to 21 years old
died in the eastern Mpumalanga province during this year’s
rituals that involve circumcisions, police spokesman Colonel
Leonard Hlati said in a phone interview today. Another six died
in the northern Limpopo province, according to the ANC.  “While we are fully supportive of the practice of
initiation, we believe it should not be a death sentence to so
many young people,” the ANC said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Every year, thousands of boys participate in initiation
ceremonies in South Africa, where they undergo a series of
trials as a rite of passage into manhood.  In 2009 and 2010, 145 boys died because of complications
related to their circumcision, and another 1,200 were
hospitalized, according to a 2010 report by the Johannesburg-based Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights
of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities, a government
group.  Poorly carried out circumcisions can lead to infection and
penile amputation, the report said.  The police are taking witness statements before turning the
case over to the National Prosecution Authority, Hlati said.  Parliament’s health committee said the deaths were
unnecessary and questioned whether correct procedures were taken
during the circumcisions.  “Initiates are supposed to undergo tests to establish
whether or not they are in good condition to be circumcised,”
the lawmakers said in a statement this week. “There must also
be provision of medical support in case of emergencies at the
initiation schools.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  