-- Sales of U.S. Existing Homes Probably Rose to Three-Year High
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-05-22T04:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/sales-of-u-s-existing-homes-probably-rose-to-three-year-high.html
Sales of existing homes probably
climbed in April to the highest level in more than three years,
giving a lift to the U.S. expansion, economists said before a
report today.  Purchases of previously owned residences rose to a 4.99
million annualized rate last month, the highest since November
2009, from 4.92 million in March, according to the median
 forecast  of 78 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Housing has gained strength as borrowing costs near record
lows and job gains rebuild confidence, spur demand and stabilize
prices. The effects are rippling through the world’s largest
economy, affecting builders including Ryland Group Inc.,
retailers such as  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , and mortgage lenders.  “The market is definitely a lot healthier than it has been
for some time,” said Richard Moody, chief economist at Regions
Financial Corp. in Birmingham,  Alabama . “Other parts of the
economy aren’t holding up their part of the bargain, but housing
is holding up its end.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who is to testify
before Congress today on the economic outlook, will be able to
point to the real estate rebound as a policy success even as
manufacturing and other sectors cool. The central bank is
boosting home sales and holding down  interest rates  with $40
billion a month in mortgage bond purchases.  In testimony to the Joint Economic Committee, Bernanke may
offer clues as to whether the labor market is strong enough to
warrant reducing stimulus. Later today, the Fed will release
minutes of its most recent meeting, at which policy makers said
they were prepared to adjust their bond purchases depending on
the state of the economy.  Survey Results  The National Association of Realtors’ home-sales report is
due at 10 a.m. Washington time. Economists’ projections in the
Bloomberg survey ranged from 4.85 million to 5.1 million.  The projected pace of April sales would be the fastest
since a homebuyer tax credit was first due to expire in November
2009. It would be the third-highest since July 2007.  Atlanta-based Home Depot, the largest home-improvement
retailer in the U.S., yesterday posted first-quarter profit that
topped analyst estimates as the housing rebound lifted
renovation spending. The retailer had about 337.1 million
transactions in the quarter, up 2.5 percent from a year earlier.  Builders, too, are benefitting from higher demand, which
has led to a shortage of houses for sale. At West Lake Village,
California-based Ryland, sales are up in all markets and the
company reported a first-quarter profit for the first time in
six years, President and Chief Executive Officer Larry Nicholson
said.  Everything ‘Positive’  “It’s tough to find any negatives really,” Nicholson said
at a conference yesterday. “The industry is obviously in
recovery mode. Everything is moving in a positive direction.”  Sales of newly built houses picked up to a 425,000
annualized rate, a three-month high, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists ahead of a Commerce
Department report tomorrow.  Building permits increased 14.3 percent to a 1.02 million
annualized rate in April, the highest level since June 2008, the
Commerce Department reported last week, as construction
companies looked to boost the inventory of homes on the market.  The growth has increased demand for lumber and other
supplies, leading to shortages in some areas, according to a
survey from the National Association of Homebuilders last week.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  