-- Sanctions Seen by Commission as Deterring China Theft
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-05-22T18:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/sanctions-seen-by-commission-as-deterring-china-theft.html
The U.S. should consider new laws to
let American companies better defend themselves against
cyberattacks from Chinese-based hackers, said a commission led
by two former advisers to President  Barack Obama .  The Treasury Department should be empowered to deny access
to the U.S. banking system to companies from  China  and other
countries that benefit from stolen data, and sanctions could be
imposed on those found to benefit from theft, the commission
said in a report released today.  “New laws might be considered for corporations and
individuals to protect themselves in an environment where law
enforcement is very limited,” the  Commission on the Theft of
American Intellectual Property  said. The commission is headed by
 Jon Huntsman , Obama’s former ambassador to China who ran as a
Republican for president, and Dennis Blair, Obama’s first
director of national intelligence.  The commission didn’t conclude that U.S. companies should
be able to conduct retaliatory cyberattacks, known as hacking
back, which has been the subject of a policy debate among U.S.
policy makers and computer security experts.  The Pentagon this month for the first time directly accused
the Chinese military of intruding into U.S. computers to steal
sensitive data. The Alexandria, Virginia-based computer security
company Mandiant Corp. released a report in February concluding
that the People’s Liberation Army in China may be behind the
hacking of at least 141 companies worldwide since 2006.  Strained Relations  Obama will meet Chinese President Xi Jinping June 7 and 8
at the 200-acre Walter and Leonore Annenberg estate in Rancho
Mirage,  California , in their first face-to-face talks since
China’s power transition ended in March. Obama’s national
security adviser, Tom Donilon, is scheduled to be in Beijing
next week.  In a March speech, Donilon said China’s campaign of cyber
espionage threatens to derail Obama’s goal of improving ties. He
warned that it was time to hold the country accountable for “a
growing challenge” to economic relations.  Hong Lei, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman, told
reporters May 21 the U.S. has no hard evidence China is behind
cyber attacks. He said cybersecurity is an issue faced by both
countries.  The group in China identified in Mandiant’s February report
continues its intrusions after being identified publicly,
Richard Bejtlich, the company’s chief security officer, said in
an interview.  Shawn Henry, president of CrowdStrike Services based in
Palo Alto, California, told a conference in  Washington  in April
that U.S. laws should be clarified regarding what companies can
do to protect their networks from attacks and raise the cost for
hackers.  Cyber Retaliation  “In the perfect world there’d be the equivalent of a cyber
911, where once you had a breach you’d dial 911 and you’d have a
response,” said Henry, a former executive assistant director at
the Federal Bureau of Investigation. “How do we operate in a
civilized society in a way that allows people to take legitimate
measures to protect themselves that doesn’t violate the law?”  Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican and
chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, cautioned against
allowing companies to hack back during a speech at a separate
conference in Washington in April.  Most companies don’t have the defenses to handle an
escalating confrontation with sophisticated hackers, he said.  Editors: Bernard Kohn, Elizabeth Wasserman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  