-- Sanctions Alone Won’t Stop Iran’s Nuclear Push
-- B y   T a r a   M a l l e r
-- 2013-05-22T22:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/sanctions-alone-won-t-stop-iran-s-nuclear-push.html
This month, the U.S. expanded its
already aggressive sanctions on Iran by penalizing several
companies suspected of aiding the country’s nuclear program or
helping the regime evade trade restrictions. The  U.S. Senate 
also introduced legislation that could prevent Iran from
accessing more than $100 billion held in overseas banks.  The goal of these actions is to get Iran’s ruling clerics
to give up their pursuit of a nuclear weapon. Although harsher
economic sanctions will undoubtedly ramp up the costs imposed on
Iran, they won’t necessarily translate into desired political
outcomes. Research indicates that many variables play a role in
the success or failure of sanctions. Most important, for
sanctions to achieve their goals they must be paired with a
clear and comprehensive diplomatic road map -- one that’s
lacking in Iran.  Strategies that focus solely on economic sanctions usually
fail, for several reasons. Although states that are politically
fragile and economically weak may sometimes be easier to coerce
through sanctions, they also may present unique challenges.
Tufts University professor  Daniel Drezner  has described a
“sanctions paradox” that is particularly salient with Iran. He
argues that states targeted with sanctions are often primed for
failure because they already have higher expectations for future
conflict and are therefore more concerned about material and
reputational losses. As a result, “the target will be concerned
about any concessions in the present undercutting its bargaining
position in future interactions.”  Threats, Costs  Colonel Phil Haun, a professor at the U.S. Naval War
College, has  examined  why weaker states may be resistant to
complying with demands from stronger ones despite increasing
costs. One reason is that concessions may threaten the survival
of the regime or the state itself.  Other research indicates that sanctions are less likely to
be effective against autocracies, such as  Iran , than against
democracies. Under a dictatorship, there’s a more tenuous link
between the population, which feels the costs of sanctions most
directly, and the regime that has the ability to modify the
state’s behavior.  Are there ways to ameliorate these challenges?  In  my research , I looked at more than 100 episodes in which
the U.S. imposed sanctions on other countries. I found that
diplomatic engagement makes sanctions more effective, whereas
disengagement has the reverse effect. When the U.S. closes its
embassy in a targeted country, for instance, the probability
that sanctions will fail increases to 73 percent from 42
percent.  That’s because engagement produces better intelligence on
the targeted country and enhances communication channels. It
improves the ability to convey demands, target the correct
entities, monitor the impact of sanctions on the ground and
calibrate policies over time. Diplomacy also provides a window
into the regime’s decision-making processes, motives and
vulnerabilities. The Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign
Assets Control, for example, relies heavily on intelligence from
within a country to assist in making sanctions policies.  Increased diplomatic interaction also helps clarify the
nature of the demands on a sanctioned country and resolve
ambiguity. A 2011  study  of almost 900 sanctions episodes over
three decades found that specific demands had a success rate of
53 percent, whereas only 18 percent of ambiguous demands were
met. These findings suggest that strong parallel diplomatic
efforts have the ability to directly strengthen punitive
economic measures.  Success Story  Libya  offers a compelling example. From 1980 to 1989, U.S.
policy toward Libya was predicated on diplomatic isolation while
economic sanctions were being imposed. During this period, there
was a significant reduction in communication between the U.S.
and Libyan officials, and there was a decline in intelligence
gathering. Minimal progress was made in cracking down on
terrorism or in trying to undermine or remove  Muammar Qaddafi ,
Libya’s dictator at the time. When diplomatic engagement was
renewed from 1999 to 2006, sanctions were much more successful.
Libya acknowledged responsibility for the 1988 Lockerbie
airliner bombing and paid compensation to victims’ families. It
also agreed to give up its weapons of mass destruction and admit
international inspectors.  In Iran, imposing higher financial costs for the regime’s
failure to halt nuclear armament is necessary, but not
sufficient. Although talks have thus far been marked by delays
and disagreement, the U.S. and the five other powers negotiating
with Iran must still be willing to  sustain  diplomatic
engagement, unambiguously articulate their demands, and set
forth a road map for compliance and the eventual removal of
sanctions.  There is no shortage of ideas for increasing such
engagement. A plan to re-establish full diplomatic relations
between the U.S. and Iran over time, starting with direct talks
between high-level officials, would be a good first step. Flynt
Leverett and Hillary Mann Leverett have  proposed  a deal to
extend security assurances to Iran, lift sanctions and
acknowledge the regime’s place in the international order in
exchange for Iran ending its pursuit of nuclear weapons, support
for terrorism and opposition to an Arab-Israeli agreement. Other
scholars have  suggested  establishing an international group that
would enrich uranium for peaceful purposes inside Iran, with
greater supervision.  Breaking through the barriers to engagement is never easy
and often politically unpopular. But it is possible. Even during
the  Cold War , President  Ronald Reagan  was willing to engage
directly with the  Soviet Union . The U.S. should focus on trying
to come up with new and creative diplomatic efforts that give it
greater insights into the Iranian regime’s decision-making.
Doing so might create openings that transform the dynamics of
the relationship.  (Tara Maller is a research fellow in the National Security
Studies Program at the  New America Foundation . The opinions
expressed are her own. Follow her on  Twitter .)  -- Editors: Timothy Lavin, David Henry.  Click on “Send Comment” in the sidebar display to send a letter
to the editor.  To contact the writer of this article:
Tara Maller at  maller@newamerica.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 