-- HSBC Client Avoids Prison for Hiding Offshore Accounts
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-05-22T21:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/hsbc-client-avoids-prison-for-hiding-bank-accounts-from-u-s-1-.html
A New Jersey businessman who
cooperated with prosecutors in a U.S. probe of offshore  tax
evasion  avoided prison for conspiring with five  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  bankers to hide Indian bank accounts from authorities.  Vaibhav Dahake, 46, was sentenced to one year of probation
today in federal court in Trenton, New Jersey, where he pleaded
guilty in April 2011. Prosecutors said he played a vital role in
helping gather information about London-based HSBC, the largest
European bank by assets. The U.S. is probing whether HSBC  India 
helped Americans hide money from the  Internal Revenue Service .  Publicity over Dahake’s case helped spur 33,000 Americans
with accounts at various banks to avoid prosecution through an
IRS amnesty program and to pay $5 billion in taxes, federal
prosecutor Scott McBride told U.S. District Judge Freda Wolfson.
The program lets taxpayers repatriate assets by paying back
taxes and penalties, and disclosing offshore accounts and
bankers.  Dahake’s cooperation “revealed many others that were
involved in acting in a similar fashion in a very large scheme
involving these undeclared bank accounts in India,” Wolfson
said. “The extent of his cooperation was virtually unparalleled
in similar tax matters.”  Dahake, of Somerset,  New Jersey , faced as long as five
years in prison. U.S. prosecutors cited his indictment in April
2011 in persuading a federal judge in  California  to allow the
IRS to serve a summons on HSBC for information about Americans
with accounts in India.  First Charged  Dahake was the first taxpayer charged in a crackdown
focusing on those HSBC India accounts. He admitted he conspired
with two bankers in New York, one in Fremont, California, and
two in Thane, India.  Since 2008, prosecutors have charged at least 86 people in
their crackdown on offshore tax evasion, including two dozen
bankers, lawyers and advisers. Several HSBC clients have been
charged.  McBride said Dahake was “certainly the right guy at the
right time for this large-scale investigation.” Before his
indictment, he was debriefed extensively, providing “many
documents and much information that was extremely useful to
us.”  Dahake’s attorney,  Lawrence Horn , said his client first
laid out details of the scheme to prosecutors on Oct. 13, 2010,
and signed a cooperation agreement a month later. He later made
surreptitious phone recordings and agreed to be indicted to spur
publicity, Horn said.  ‘Inner Workings’  “My client provided the key that opened the vault to the
inner workings of HSBC,” Horn said. “It was like an MRI. It
was magnificent.”  Before he was sentenced, Dahake apologized to the judge and
the IRS.  “The last three years have been living hell for me,” he
said. “I have done everything possible to help the government
to undo the mistakes that I have made.”  Dahake had previously paid $2.3 million in back taxes,
fines and penalties.  “HSBC cooperated with  law enforcement  in this matter, and
continues to fully support U.S. efforts to combat tax evasion,”
Robert Sherman, a bank spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We do not
condone tax evasions, and we comply with law in all
jurisdictions.”  HSBC rose 2.5 pence to 767.8 pence today in London  trading .  NRI Services  In Dahake’s indictment, prosecutors said the bank operated
a U.S.  division  called NRI Services that marketed offshore-banking services to U.S. citizens of Indian descent. Through
NRI, HSBC “encouraged U.S. citizens to open undeclared bank
accounts in India,” according to the indictment.  Dahake, a native of India who became a U.S. citizen in
2006, filed false tax returns that hid ownership of, and income
from, undeclared accounts in India, as well as the British
Virgin Islands, according to the indictment.  His British Virgin Islands accounts didn’t pay interest,
and the bank solicited him to open accounts in India that paid
“high  interest rates ,” according to the indictment.  In 2001, he met with a banker in New York who touted the
advantages of an Indian account, “including that no U.S. forms
were required, he did not have to provide a Social Security
number, the account was not taxable in India” and no Form 1099
reporting the interest income would be filed with the IRS,
according to the indictment.  ‘Stay Below’  In transferring funds, the banker advised, Dahake should
send multiple checks in the amount of $10,000 rather than one
large one so that he could “stay below the radar,” according
to the indictment.  Two other U.S. bankers also told him that the bank wouldn’t
file 1099 forms with the IRS, according to the indictment. In
another instance, Dahake was talking with a banker in Fremont
and asked if the bank would issue 1099 forms, according to the
document. The banker stopped speaking in English and said in
Hindi that Dahake shouldn’t discuss the forms on the phone,
according to the indictment.  HSBC closed its NRI offices in  New York  and Fremont in
2010, according to the bank.  The case is U.S. v. Dahake, 11-cr-00042, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  