-- Schindler Chairman Says Hyundai Elevator Reneged on Takeover
-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2013-05-22T10:49:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/schindler-chairman-says-hyundai-elevator-reneged-on-takeover.html
Billionaire  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP) 
Chairman Alfred Schindler said  Hyundai Elevator Co. (017800)  management
reneged on a provisional agreement to sell most of the company,
forcing him to file lawsuits to protect his investment.  Hyundai Elevator Chairwoman Hyun Jeong Eun and her mother
signed a letter of intent in 2004 to sell the company’s elevator
business to the Swiss elevator-maker, Schindler said at a
roundtable event in Seoul. About five years later, Hyundai
Elevator told Schindler, its second-largest shareholder, that
the company wouldn’t be sold, according to Alfred Schindler.  Schindler said he can imagine Hyundai returning to
negotiations based on the letter of intent, though it would be
“quite complex and very late in timing.” The letter of intent
isn’t legally binding and was dismissed in October 2005 under
the agreement of both parties, Hyundai Elevator said in an e-mailed response to  Bloomberg News . It said it has no intention
of selling the elevator business.  “We kept silence on this for 10 years; I never talked to
the Swiss or Korean governments or press,” Schindler said,
adding that he can now talk about the pact as details are open
to a South Korean court and because the latest share sale plan
at Hyundai is hard to accept.  Schindler is unlikely to sell its 35 percent stake in the
short term as it would weigh on Hyundai Elevator’s stock price,
Alfred Schindler said.  A local court last month rejected Schindler’s request to
stop a planned 110.9 billion-won ($100 million) capital increase
in June that Schindler said will be at a 25 percent discount and
excluding current investors. Hyundai agreed to notify Schindler
if it decides to separate its elevator business.  Korean Accounts  The letter of intent sheds new light on Schindler’s
attempts to access the accounts of its Korean partner, which
have been blocked in local courts on the grounds that Schindler
is a competitor with ulterior motives. Schindler is also
attempting to end the Ichon, South Korea-based company’s use of
derivatives linked to an unprofitable shipping affiliate,
 Hyundai Merchant Marine Co. (011200)   Hyundai Group controls 45 percent of Hyundai Elevator,
according to Schindler. Schindler doesn’t have any directors on
Hyundai Elevator’s board.  Hyundai Group, headed by Chairwoman Hyun Jeong Eun, is
separate from Hyundai Motor Group, which is run by  Chung Mong Koo , the elder brother of Hyun’s late husband.  Schindler says Hyundai’s Elevator’s management decisions
are putting his investment at risk.  Derivative Losses  “The company is losing value and destroying value for the
past three years, and as a shareholder we have to defend our
investment,” he said. “We have several hundreds of millions on
the table.”  Schindler shares traded 0.4 percent higher at 141.7 francs
as of 12:39 p.m. in Zurich. Hyundai Elevator declined 0.9
percent to 81,200 won.  While Hyundai Elevator has increased sales every year since
Schindler took a stake in 2006, it has made losses in two of the
last three years. That’s partly because of the derivative
contracts that help  Hyundai Group  control Hyundai Merchant by
supporting allied shareholders.  Hyundai Elevator incurred a 195.3 billion-won loss from
stock derivatives in the first quarter, according to a
regulatory filing on May 10.  Personal Touch  Hyun and Schindler cemented their relationship with
personal gatherings, Schindler said. The Swiss industrialist and
his wife were entertained by Hyun at Mount Geumgang in  North
Korea  in 2007, while Hyun and her daughters were invited to
 Switzerland , he said.  In 2010, Hyundai Group failed in an attempt to buy a 35
percent stake in Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co., even
after offering almost $5 billion, more than double the market
price.  At the time, Schindler advised Hyun to not participate in
the deal as analysis showed Hyundai did not have enough money to
make the promised payment. Instead Schindler offered $600
million to help “disentangle” and rebuild Hyundai Group’s
complex corporate structure, which he told Hyun was
unsustainable, Schindler said.  “However, I never got an answer,” Schindler said. “There
has been no communication” between the companies since then,
the chairman said.  Avoid Antitrust  Schindler deliberately kept its own elevator operations in
 Korea  to a minimum in order to avoid antitrust difficulties if
it acquired Hyundai Elevator.  The Swiss elevator heir expanded his family company with
acquisitions throughout the 1990s from Russia to Brazil to
prevent it from being taken over like rival Otis Elevator, which
was swallowed by  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  All of his takeovers
were friendly, Schindler said,  Schindler said there aren’t many alternatives left for his
Korean investment. Aside from waiting for Hyundai Elevator to
return to negotiations, he said that Korean government
intervention or writing off the 35 percent stake are options.  “I have not the faintest idea what will happen, but I can
guarantee that we are not a hostile company,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in  Seoul  at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  