-- Secret File Shows Royal Phones Tapped Before Abdication
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-05-22T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/secret-file-shows-royal-phones-tapped-before-abdication.html
The British government tapped King Edward VIII’s phones five days before he abdicated in 1936,
according to documents so sensitive they were hidden in a
basement strongroom for nearly 80 years.  The order was given two days after Wallis Simpson, the
American divorcee Edward wanted to marry, left  London  for
Europe. A written order, marked “most secret,” confirmed an
oral instruction from one of Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin’s
advisers that calls from Buckingham Palace and Fort Belvedere,
Edward’s country home, to London and “the continent of Europe”
should be intercepted.  The decision to listen to the king’s calls was deemed so
incendiary that it wasn’t filed in the U.K.’s official records.
Instead, it sat, forgotten, in a basement room in the Cabinet
Office in London, alongside other secrets too sensitive even for
the government’s classified files.  “These are the sort of papers that get put into the ‘too
difficult, too sensitive’ category,” said Gill Bennett, a
retired government historian who sorted through the strongroom
files ahead of their release by the  National Archives  today.
“You do have to go through it line by line and page by page.
Sometimes it is like a detective story.”  As the end of 1936 approached, Edward’s relationship with
Simpson, a twice-married socialite, had been widely reported
outside Britain. The Church of  England , of which Edward as king
was head, was opposed to his marrying a divorcee, and government
ministers took the view that she would be unsuitable as queen.
British newspapers remained silent on their relationship until
two weeks before his Dec. 10 abdication.  Police Guard  The secret file released today shows Edward, without
consulting government ministers, ordered the police to put a
guard on Simpson’s house in London. When challenged by U.S.
reporters, the police denied it. In a three-page handwritten
letter to the home secretary after newspaper reports appeared,
the head of London’s police, Philip Game, explained that when
the king gave the order, he told the officer he was speaking to
he should “keep it to himself and as few others as possible.”  As well as listening to the king’s calls while he decided
whether to abdicate, the government was trying to stop news of
the possibility leaking abroad. The file shows telegrams sent to
newspapers in Johannesburg and Bombay before Edward had
abdicated that were intercepted and stopped by the government.
The first read simply: “HIS MAJESTY ABDICATED INFORMATION
OLIVER.”  ‘No Truth’  A memo in the file describes how one of the reporters who
sent telegrams was questioned about his source and told “there
was no truth in the statement it contained.”  The files have been undisturbed for decades. Richard
Wilson, who was Cabinet secretary and head of the civil service
from 1998 to 2002, told reporters that on taking the job his
predecessor Robin Butler said “By the way, there’s a strongroom
downstairs. I’ve never had time to go and look.”  Wilson described how the access was down a “little
staircase you can easily not notice” off the Cabinet
secretary’s offices. One day he went down the spiral stairs, and
found a dark dusty room, with a barred window at ground level
onto the garden of 10 Downing Street, the prime minister’s
official residence. It was full of piles of paper.  “My eyes swiveled,” Wilson told reporters as he described
the day he first went into the strongroom. “I gave myself an
hour to just take papers at random. People had simply dumped
papers which they didn’t know what to do with on these
shelves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  