-- Reid Says Immigration Bill to Reach Senate Floor in June
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-05-22T16:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/senate-panel-advances-immigration-bill-with-hatch-changes.html
 Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid
said he will bring the “strong bipartisan” immigration bill
approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee to the chamber’s
floor in June.  He said today that the legislation, which would be the
biggest change to U.S. immigration law in a generation, “will
make our country safer and help 11 million undocumented
immigrants get right with the law.”  The committee approved the measure yesterday, 13-5, after
adopting an amendment from Republican Senator Orrin Hatch on
visas for high-skilled foreign workers. It was among the
compromises Democratic panel members made in an attempt to
strengthen the legislation’s appeal to Republicans.  “The bill has moved to the right in the committee and that
will help its chances on the floor and put it in a better
position as it moves to the House of Representatives,” said
Alex Nowrasteh, an immigration analyst at the libertarian Cato
Institute in  Washington .  The legislation seeks to balance a path to citizenship for
an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in the U.S.,
sought by Democrats, with enough border-security improvements to
satisfy Republicans. It was written by a group of four
Republican and four Democratic senators.  Citizenship Path  Republican Senators Jeff Flake of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, among the bill’s authors, worked with
Democrats to adopt about 100 amendments while defeating others
that could undermine its prospects before the full Senate and in
the Republican-led House. That included an attempt by Iowa
Republican Senator Charles Grassley to make a path to
citizenship contingent on securing the U.S. border.  “Members of the group that put this together have stood
together and voted against amendments that they felt would be a
violation of the bipartisan agreement,” said California Senator
Dianne Feinstein, who sits on the committee.  Senator Patrick Leahy, the panel’s chairman and a Vermont
Democrat, yesterday withdrew an amendment to provide immigrants
in same-sex marriages with U.S. citizens equal benefits to
heterosexual couples after Democrats and Republicans spoke
against it.  “We now know this is going to blow the agreement apart,”
Feinstein said. “I don’t want to blow this bill apart.”  In 2007, the last time Congress tried to enact a major
revision of immigration law, a number of lawmakers switched
their votes on the Senate floor because of amendments they
couldn’t support, she said.  Border Security  Republicans in both chambers say they will reject border
security enhancements they deem insufficient and a measure
creating a temporary worker program they consider too limited
for U.S. companies that need more lower-skilled workers.  Labor unions and other groups today began planning
strategies to protect aspects of the bill they support and
campaign for changes they want to be made by the full Senate.  AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka said in an e-mailed
statement that the organization, the nation’s largest labor
federation, would “redouble” its efforts to protect the bill’s
path to citizenship through “everything from old-school
lobbying to new-school social media.”  Trumka added that the group would work to “pursue
constructive amendments where needed,” including changes to the
high-skilled visa program and adding language granting parity to
same-sex couples.  In the House, Republicans crafting immigration legislation,
including Representative John Carter of Texas, have criticized
the Senate measure. Senate opponents previewed some of those
arguments during the panel debate.  ‘Legalization First’  “No one disputes that this bill is legalization first,
enforcement later,” Grassley said. “Absent significant changes
on the Senate floor, the House should take up their own
process.”  Senator John Cornyn of Texas cited his support for a
biometric exit and entry system that was among the rejected
amendments. Flake of  Arizona , who voted for the bill, said the
Senate must consider proposed changes from Hatch regarding the
taxes immigrants must pay and U.S. benefits they receive.  Hatch of Utah said if these “conflicts” aren’t resolved,
“I will have to vote against the bill on the floor.”  Meanwhile, some Democrats including Senator Al Franken of
 Minnesota , concerned that the compromise with Hatch to expand
visas to fill jobs in the high-tech industry will hurt the job
security of U.S. workers, may offer amendments that could
undermine Republican support.  2012 Election  Still, the legislation, S.744, stands a chance of becoming
law as Democrats and Republicans still reeling from the 2012
election in which Hispanics overwhelmingly voted for President
 Barack Obama  say they want to reach a compromise.  The bill “has made a substantial contribution to moving
the issue forward,” Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell told
reporters yesterday. “I am hopeful we can get a bill that we
can pass here in the Senate.”  The broader legislation “has withstood attacks” and is
now ready to be considered in both chambers, Frank Sharry,
executive director at America’s Voice, said in a statement. The
group advocates a path to citizenship in immigration law.  Nowrasteh said, “You’re now going to see input from other
senators who’ve been on the sidelines.”  Committee members withdrew some proposals before the vote.
Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Connecticut Democrat, agreed not
to force a vote on his proposal to move the cutoff date for
undocumented immigrants to seek citizenship from 2011 to 2013.  Ted Cruz  Other proposals that were defeated could re-emerge,
including  Texas  Republican Ted Cruz’s call for eliminating the
pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. Cruz’s
amendment was rejected 5-13.  In the House, a bipartisan group of lawmakers who struck a
deal on a broader bill last week gave up on seeking a compromise
on how many temporary workers to allow into the U.S., a
disagreement that will likely be debated in both the House and
Senate.  Several amendments adopted in the committee were intended
to make the bill more palatable to moderate Republicans seen as
crucial to passage in the full Senate. The provisions include
two proposals to help prevent foreign citizens from staying in
the U.S. on expired visas.  Biometric Screening  One proposal would set up a biometric screening system at
the nation’s 30 busiest airports to track the departure of
foreigners on international flights. Such systems can include
fingerprinting or facial-recognition scans. About 40 percent of
the undocumented in the U.S. have stayed after their visas
expired.  The committee also authorized $4.5 billion over the next
five years for tighter border security while requiring a 90
percent apprehension rate along the full U.S.-Mexico border.  Senators Dick Durbin of  Illinois  and Charles Schumer of New
York, along with other authors of the bill, had courted Hatch’s
vote in hopes he would bring other Republicans with him.  The agreement with Hatch would change the formula for
calculating the number of visas for foreign technology workers
while keeping the bill’s limit of 180,000 a year.  It would lift a requirement that companies seek a U.S.
worker before hiring a foreign visa holder for all companies
except those whose workforce is more than 15 percent foreign.
The amendment included Hatch’s proposal requiring employers to
show that a U.S. worker wasn’t available only when they
initially hire a foreign employee, not with each visa extension.  The bill’s authors said they will remain open to changes on
the Senate floor.  Democrats “have an open ear and an open mind to other
amendments,” Schumer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  