-- Senate Rivals Unite to Overhaul Chemical Safety Laws
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-05-22T19:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/senate-rivals-unite-to-overhaul-chemical-safety-laws.html
A bipartisan group of senators
reached a compromise on a measure to overhaul U.S. chemical
regulation, creating an opening for the first major expansion of
environmental laws in almost two decades.  After years of tussling over a revamp of the toxic
substances act, Republican Senator  David Vitter  joined Democrat
 Frank Lautenberg  on a bill to require safety testing of new
chemicals and give the Environmental Protection Agency authority
to ban chemicals.  “This bipartisan agreement is an historic step toward
meaningful reform that protects American families and
consumers,” New Jersey’s Lautenberg, who has been pushing for
legislation since 2005, said in a statement about the measure,
which focuses on the health effects of using chemicals.  Vitter, of Louisiana, and Lautenberg are members of the
Environment and Public Works Committee, which must consider and
vote on the measure. The measure is co-sponsored by 14 other
senators, seven Republicans and seven Democrats. It also won an
initial, qualified endorsement from the American Chemistry
Council, which represents companies such as  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  and
 3M Co. (MMM) , and the  League of Conservation Voters , which has pushed
for stronger oversight of the industry.  Under current law, the EPA can demand safety testing only
after evidence demonstrates a chemical may be dangerous. As a
result, EPA has only been able to require testing for 200 of the
more than 84,000 chemicals currently registered to be used in
the U.S., and has been able to ban only five since the
legislation passed in 1976, according to the joint statement.  The proposed measure doesn’t deal with calls for enhanced
oversight of safety in the manufacturing of chemicals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  