-- HSH Nordbank Says Shipping Crisis May Worsen Through 2014
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   B r a u t l e c h t
-- 2013-05-22T10:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/hsh-nordbank-says-shipping-crisis-may-worsen-through-2014.html
HSH Nordbank AG, the world’s largest
shipping lender, said the crisis buffeting the industry may
worsen through 2014 as clients contend with a drop in demand and
the arrival of a new generation of container vessels.  HSH Nordbank, which holds 27 billion euros ($35 billion) of
shipping loans in its portfolio, has taken provisions to prepare
for the worst-case scenario, HSH Chief Executive Officer
Constantin von Oesterreich told journalists in Hamburg, the
bank’s home city, last night.  “The market doesn’t move sideways for a long time, it will
either get better or worse,” he said. “It could very well be
that it will get tougher before the end of 2014.” A recovery is
unlikely before that, said von Oesterreich.  HSH Nordbank, which is controlled by the German states of
Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein, is trying to reduce bad loans to
shipping clients struggling to service their debt amid the slump
in demand, overcapacity of vessels and low freight rates.  Shipping loans make up 27 billion euros of the lender’s 125
billion-euro portfolio, von Oesterreich said. “That’s a really
high number,” he said.  Hamburg and Schleswig-Holstein have increased guarantees to
cover potential losses at HSH Nordbank to 10 billion euros from
7 billion euros, a step the bank expects the European Union to
grant preliminary approval for by June 16, von Oesterreich said.  First-quarter net income fell 41 percent to 73 million
euros, von Oesterreich said before the official release of the
results tomorrow.  In the first quarter of last year, HSH Nordbank profited
from the repurchase of subordinated bonds, which boosted
earnings by 261 million euros, Rune Hoffmann, the company’s
spokesman, said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Brautlecht in Hamburg at 
 nbrautlecht@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  