-- Shane Todd’s Family Pulls Out From Singapore Coroner’s Inquest
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-05-22T06:25:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/shane-todd-s-family-pulls-out-from-singapore-coroner-s-inquest.html
The family of Shane Todd, who was
found hanged in his  Singapore  apartment, withdrew from a
coroner’s inquest in the city state looking into how the U.S.
research engineer died.  “The Todd family feels we must withdraw our participation
from the inquiry proceedings,” they said in an e-mailed
statement today. “We were looking forward to an honest and
transparent court proceeding.”  Singapore opened the inquiry after Todd’s family disagreed
with police that the engineer committed suicide by hanging. The
family walked out of the courtroom yesterday after their request
to delay the hearing to examine claims made by a witness was
initially rejected by the judge.  Todd may have been killed because of his sensitive work at
Singapore’s  Institute of Microelectronics  and possible
technology transfers to  China , his father Rick has said. Todd
was 31 when he died in June.  Senior state counsel Tai Wei Shyong had said May 13 a
“proper determination” of Todd’s death will be made at the
inquest. Todd suffered from depression, visited suicide websites
and left a suicide letter before he died, according to the
Singapore government’s lawyers.  Edward Adelstein, a doctor engaged by the family, testified
yesterday that Todd may have been shot by a taser gun or killed
in an arm-lock. Adelstein had earlier said Todd may have been
strangled to death.  “We have decided that our presence in Singapore will have
no bearing on the outcome,” the Todd family said in the
statement. “The Todd family will now turn to the court of
public opinion.”  The inquest, which started on May 13, is scheduled to end
on May 28.  The Coroner’s Inquiry is Shane Truman Todd. CI002014 of
2012. Singapore Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  