-- Shulman’s Above-Fray IRS Posture to Get Tested by Issa
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2013-05-22T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/shulman-s-above-fray-irs-posture-to-get-tested-by-issa.html
Former IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman ’s self-portrait of an executive intentionally distanced
from political controversy will be tested today by House
Republicans eager to uncover details about the tax agency’s
scrutiny of small-government groups.  Shulman, who left the Internal Revenue Service in November,
returns to Capitol Hill to testify before a congressional panel
for the second straight day. This time, before the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, he won’t be able
to deflect questions to a current IRS official, as Lois Lerner
will invoke her Fifth Amendment constitutional right not to
speak and potentially incriminate herself.  Shulman insisted yesterday that he didn’t have all the
facts about what the IRS did until an inspector general’s report
was released last week.  “I didn’t touch individual cases and I certainly didn’t
touch cases that involved political activity,” he told the
Senate Finance Committee. “I certainly am not personally
responsible for creating a list that had inappropriate
criteria.”  Given several chances to apologize, Shulman refused,
instead expressing regret and dismay at the agency’s screening
practices. As one of two presidential appointees at the IRS, he
said he tried to stay out of individual cases.  In the Senate yesterday, Shulman directed some questions to
Steven Miller, his former deputy, who is being forced out as
acting commissioner. Miller, a career IRS employee, once oversaw
tax-exempt organizations.  Shulman Criticized  Shulman still encountered criticism from lawmakers in both
parties. Senator Orrin Hatch of  Utah , the panel’s top
Republican, said Shulman should have corrected previous
assurances that the agency had acted properly once he found out
they were false.  Senator Thomas Carper, a Delaware Democrat, said it was a
“disappointment” that Shulman wasn’t accepting more
responsibility.  Shulman will have little if any cushion today before the
House oversight panel led by Representative Darrell Issa, a
California Republican.  Miller won’t be there. Lerner, the mid-level official at
the center of the controversy, won’t answer questions, according
to a letter her lawyer, William Taylor, wrote to Issa.  “She has not committed any crime or made any
misrepresentation but under the circumstances she has no choice
but to take this course,” wrote Taylor, a partner at Zuckerman
Spaeder LLP in  Washington .  Inappropriate Questions  Today’s hearing will be the third since Lerner disclosed
May 10 that the IRS had selected “Tea Party” and “patriot”
groups applying for tax-exempt status for tougher scrutiny. The
groups had long delays and some received what the inspector
general described as inappropriate questions about items such as
their donor lists.  In addition to the congressional inquiries, the inspector
general is reviewing the matter further and the Justice
Department has started a criminal investigation.  In a statement yesterday, Ali Ahmad, a spokesman for Issa,
said he wants Lerner to change her mind and answer the
committee’s questions.  “We want her to be as candid as possible to try to shed
some light on the truth, which we haven’t had,” said
Representative  Jason Chaffetz , a committee member and Utah
Republican.  Representative Elijah Cummings of  Maryland , the oversight
panel’s top Democrat, said Lerner should lose her job.  “I think she has to go, because we have to restore
trust,” he told reporters yesterday.  IRS Leadership  Shulman, 46, was appointed by President George W. Bush and
confirmed by the Senate in March 2008. He announced in April
2012 that he wouldn’t stay past the end of his term.  President  Barack Obama  hasn’t nominated a successor to
Shulman. Danny Werfel, controller of the Office of Management
and Budget, takes over today as acting commissioner.  Several times during yesterday’s hearing, Shulman cited a
long list of IRS priorities -- such as policing offshore tax
avoidance, updating technology and distributing federal stimulus
money -- that were his focus as commissioner.  Lerner found out in June 2011 that employees at the IRS
tax-exempt office in Cincinnati had been applying extra scrutiny
to small-government groups based solely on their names.  She attempted to stop that practice. According to the
inspector general’s report, Cincinnati employees then applied
other inappropriate criteria for several months.  May 2012  The IRS inspector general, Russell George, and Miller
haven’t identified the employees who first came up with the list
or reversed Lerner’s decision.  Miller, who was then deputy commissioner, found out what
had happened in May 2012. Shulman said Miller told him.  “This is an issue that when someone spotted it, they
should have run it up the chain,” Shulman said. “Why they
didn’t, I don’t know.”  Shulman said he didn’t know the details about the number of
groups affected and which criteria were used to screen
applications, other than the phrase “Tea Party.”  In his testimony, Shulman didn’t undermine statements by
the White House and the Treasury Department that no one outside
the IRS knew details of the scrutiny of the groups until earlier
this year. Shulman said he was unwilling to discuss the matter
while the inspector general was reviewing it.  Didn’t Tell  “And so I don’t recall telling anyone about it because I
think this is not the kind of information that should leave the
IRS,” he said.  Shulman, who told House lawmakers in March 2012 that there
was “absolutely” no targeting of small-government groups,
didn’t go back to Congress to correct that statement or order
his deputies to do so. Republicans had been relaying complaints
to the IRS that Tea Party groups had received questions.  Democrats had a different line of questioning, pressing
Shulman to explain why the IRS hasn’t set clearer rules for
political activity of non-profit groups. The law says groups
organized under section 501(c)(4) of the tax code -- such as the
ones scrutinized by the Cincinnati office -- must be operated
“exclusively” to promote social welfare.  IRS rules allow them to have some political activity, as
long as that’s not their primary purpose.  “This is a very hard task given to the IRS,” Shulman
said. “If Congress could help clarify the law, that would be
very helpful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  