-- Singapore Says It’s Regretful Todd Family Quit Coroner’s Inquest
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-05-22T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/singapore-says-it-s-regretful-todd-family-quit-coroner-s-inquest.html
Singapore  Foreign Affairs and Law
Minister K. Shanmugam said it was regretful that the family of
U.S. research engineer Shane Todd pulled out from a coroner’s
inquest yesterday.  The Todd family quit the inquest, opened by Singapore to
determine how the 31-year-old died in June, after walking out of
the courtroom on May 21. Edward Adelstein, a medical examiner
engaged by the family, testified earlier this week Todd may have
been shot by a taser gun or killed in an arm-lock after earlier
saying he may have been strangled to death based on pictures of
the body.  “It’s unfortunate that they decided to leave after their
key witness” Adelstein testified, Shanmugam told reporters in
the city state yesterday. “He, of course, has changed his
original testimony and has confirmed that Dr. Todd was not
killed by garroting.”  The family had said Todd may have been killed because of
his sensitive work at Singapore’s Institute of Microelectronics
and possible technology transfers to  China ’s Huawei Technologies
Co.. The island’s police ruled he committed suicide by hanging.  The family has claimed that Todd’s external hard drive was
accessed by an unknown person after he died. A May 9 U.S.
Federal Bureau of Investigation report said the drive the family
found in the apartment was the same device the Singapore police
had examined.  “It’s unfortunate that if they don’t take part, this
assertion which formed a key part of their conspiracy theory
can’t be tested,” Shanmugam said.  All Evidence  Singapore is committed to presenting all the evidence, he
said, adding the inquiry will continue. The inquest, which
started on May 13, is scheduled to end on May 28.  “We no longer have confidence in the transparency and the
fairness of the system,” the family said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “It appears to us that the outcome has
been pre-determined.”  Shanmugam declined to comment on “aspersions cast” by the
family or talk of a possible movie deal for them.  “Conclusions are for the court to come to,” he said.  Rick Todd, the engineer’s father, said in a phone interview
yesterday that while “anybody would be interested in a
fascinating story,” there is no movie deal. The family would
“absolutely not” take part in the inquest, he said.  “The state said this would be a non-confrontational
process,” he said. “It has been so adversarial.”  The case drew queries from Democratic Senators  Max Baucus 
and Jon Tester of Todd’s home state of  Montana . Shanmugam, who
met with Baucus on March 12 during a visit to the U.S., has said
there were no illegal technology transfers at the institute,
which is subject to rigorous audits.  Gallium Nitride  The institute said it doesn’t do classified military-related research and didn’t collaborate with Huawei on a
gallium-nitride project, the focus of Todd’s work. Huawei said
April 8 it doesn’t pose a U.S. security threat as it defended
itself against foreign governments’ concerns that it aids
intelligence agencies.  The family walked out of the courtroom after their request
to delay the hearing to examine claims made by a witness was
initially rejected by the judge. The witness, a former
colleague, said he met Todd on June 23, the day before his body
was found.  Senior State Counsel Tai Wei Shyong had said May 13 a
“proper determination” of Todd’s death will be made at the
inquest. Todd suffered from depression, visited suicide websites
and left a suicide letter before he died, according to lawyers
representing the Singapore government.  “We have decided that our presence in Singapore will have
no bearing on the outcome,” the family said in the statement.
“The Todd family will now turn to the court of public
opinion.”  The Coroner’s Inquiry is Shane Truman Todd. CI002014 of
2012. Singapore Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  