-- SNS Investors Say ‘Impossible’ Dutch Capital Demand Was Illegal
-- B y   C o r i n a   R u h e   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-05-22T17:37:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/sns-investors-say-impossible-dutch-capital-demand-was-illegal.html
SNS Reaal NV investors wiped out by
the Dutch lender’s nationalization said the Dutch central bank
acted unlawfully when it demanded an immediate 1.8 billion-euro
($2.4 billion) capital increase in January.  “The central bank gave SNS Bank a task which was
impossible to fulfill,” Dutch investors’ group VEB,
representing more than 8,000 holders of SNS Reaal securities,
said in notes prepared for a hearing at the central bank today.
The order was unlawful, The Hague-based group said.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem took control of
SNS Reaal after real-estate losses brought the fourth-largest
Dutch lender to the brink of collapse. Shareholders and some
bondholders were expropriated in the rescue without any
compensation as he sought to limit taxpayers’ costs. The
nationalization, which became irrevocable on Feb. 25, has
triggered multiple court cases and appeals as investors fight
their bail-in.  The Enterprise Chamber of the Amsterdam Court of Appeal
last month heard arguments on whether the minister was right to
refuse compensation. SNS Reaal itself also appealed the central
bank’s Jan. 27 decree, VEB said in notes today. The lender has
until July 8 to substantiate its objections, VEB said.  “I can confirm SNS Reaal filed a pro-forma appeal against
the central bank’s decision before the nationalization on Feb.
1,” Jeroen de Graaf, a spokesman for the lender, said by phone
today. “We are still considering the grounds for the appeal.”  Tobias Oudejans, a spokesman for the Amsterdam-based
central bank, declined to comment on SNS Reaal’s appeal. Under
Dutch law, complaints regarding the central bank must be made
first to the bank itself. The central bank’s response can be
appealed in administrative court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Ruhe in Amsterdam at 
 cruhe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  