-- Sony Board Discussing Loeb’s Entertainment IPO Proposal
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-05-22T22:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/sony-board-discussing-loeb-s-entertainment-ipo-proposal.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  directors are discussing
whether to adopt billionaire  Daniel Loeb ’s proposal for an
initial public offering of its entertainment business, a week
after the TV maker said the assets weren’t for sale.  “It’s only a start,” Chief Executive Officer  Kazuo Hirai 
said of the talks, without giving a timeframe for any response.
“It’s important that the board will discuss this and come to a
decision that represents Sony’s stance.”  Sony has jumped 22 percent since Third Point LLC’s Loeb
told Hirai that partially spinning off the entertainment assets
would bring a higher valuation and raise cash for the company,
whose movie studio topped the U.S. box office last year. Film
and financial services earnings have helped the Tokyo-based
company counter nine straight annual losses from making TVs.  “Sony will consider how to keep control of the company and
may be forced to throw a bone to prevent a long, ugly fight,”
said Edwin Merner, president of Tokyo-based Atlantis Investment
Research Corp. “They will try to give up as little as possible
and are no doubt receiving advice on how to fight off the
aggressor.”  Elissa Doyle, a spokeswoman for  Third Point , declined to
comment.  Sony, which held its corporate-strategy meeting yesterday,
rose to the highest in more than two years in Tokyo. Japan’s
biggest TV maker surged 5.9 percent yesterday to 2,290 yen,
extending  gains  this year to 139 percent, while Japan’s
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.6 percent. Sony
American Depositary receipts fell 3.3 percent to $22.15.  Third Point  The Nikkei newspaper reported that the board may discuss a
potential IPO. Hirai said during a news conference yesterday
that talks have started, and he declined to give his view on the
proposal.  Third Point on May 14 proposed selling as much as 20
percent of the entertainment units, including the company’s
U.S.-based film and television studio and its music business, in
an IPO.  Hirai, who started his career at Sony’s  music division ,
previously said he didn’t plan to sell the entertainment assets
as he builds services linking Xperia smartphones, PlayStation
devices and Bravia TVs with Sony movies and music.  Expectations that Sony will take action are driving the
stock higher, said Mitsuo Shimizu, a Tokyo-based analyst at  Iwai
Cosmo Holdings Inc. (8707)   “Realistically, it’s not clear whether a spinoff will
strengthen Sony,” the analyst said.  Spider-Man, Springsteen  In addition to raising cash to help turn around the
electronics unit, the IPO would provide a more disciplined focus
on the entertainment group, Loeb said in a May 14 letter to
Hirai.  Sony’s movie studio makes the “Spider-Man” and “Smurfs”
movies. Television production includes “Breaking Bad” for  AMC
Networks Inc. (AMCX)  The company owns  Sony Music Entertainment , home to
 Alicia Keys  and  Bruce Springsteen , while its Sony/ATV Music
Publishing venture with  Michael Jackson ’s estate collects
royalties on music from The Beatles and Jackson.  Loeb has invested $1.1 billion in Sony to become the
company’s  biggest investor , he said in his letter, and is
willing to bet more.  The investor said he would underwrite a rights offering in
the entertainment unit that would give shareholders the
opportunity to participate. Third Point, which manages $13
billion, would “backstop” the IPO for as much as $2 billion,
he said in the letter.  Xperia, PlayStation  The electronics maker has missed a three-year rally in
media stocks because of losses in its hardware businesses. Since
January 2010, the S&P 500 Media Index has more than doubled,
while ADRs of Sony, with one of the world’s largest collections
of movie, television and music businesses, has declined 24
percent.  Hirai yesterday maintained Sony’s target for an operating
 margin  of 5 percent in the 2014 fiscal year as  Japan ’s biggest
maker of TVs and smartphones sharpens its focus on high-end
products.  Sales will probably be 8.5 trillion yen ($83 billion), and
its return on equity will be 10 percent, the company said in a
statement yesterday. Sony also targets 1 trillion yen in revenue
from its games division, though it reduced its operating-margin
target for the year ending March 2015 to 2 percent from an
earlier estimate of 8 percent.  Sales of the PlayStation Vita handheld player were lower
than expected, and the company predicts higher expenses for
promoting the PlayStation 4 home gaming console for introduction
by year’s end, Hirai said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  