-- South Africa Inflation Unchanged at 5.9% as Rand Weakens
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-05-22T09:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/south-africa-inflation-unchanged-at-5-9-as-rand-weakens.html
South Africa ’s  inflation  rate rose
more than estimated in April as a decline in the value of the
rand added to the cost of imports, reducing the chances of a cut
in interest rates.  Inflation was unchanged 5.9 percent from the previous
month, Statistics South Africa said on its website today. The
median  estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of 19 economists was 5.7
percent. Consumer prices increased 0.4 percent in the month.  “Even though the economy is still weak and there are the
strikes, the central bank will wait and see” before lowering
its key  interest rate , said Stanislava Pravdova, an economist at
Copenhagen-based  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) , who correctly forecast the
inflation data. “Right now it’s a no-go for them to cut.”  The rand’s more than 10 percent decline against the dollar
this year may add to the cost of imports, including oil, leaving
policy makers less room to stimulate an economy hurt by slowing
demand from  Europe  for its manufactured goods, sluggish mining
output and the risk on more labor unrest. The South African
Reserve Bank will keep the repurchase  rate  at 5 percent
tomorrow, according to 18 of 19 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on interest
rates, starting next February climbed as much as eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, today to 4.97 percent, the
highest level in a month.  Inflation “will certainly break the upper end of the
target over the next few months,” Pravdova said. “This is
something the central bank needs to remember.”  The rand gained 0.5 percent to 9.4966 per dollar by 11:20
a.m. in Johannesburg, paring the drop this year to 10.8 percent,
the second-worst performance of the 16 major currencies
monitored by Bloomberg after the Japanese yen.  The bank’s monetary policy committee said at its last
meeting two months ago that inflation will probably exceed 6
percent, the top of its target range, in the third quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  