-- South Miami Settles SEC Charge it Misled Muni Investors
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-05-22T21:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/south-miami-settles-sec-claim-it-misled-municipal-bond-investors.html
The Florida city of South Miami
misled investors by failing to disclose that it had used tax-exempt bond proceeds to help a developer finance a downtown
parking and retail project, according to U.S. regulators.  The community in Miami-Dade County with about 11,000
residents borrowed $12 million at tax-exempt rates by selling
debt through the Florida Municipal Loan Council, which raises
money on behalf of cities, the Securities and Exchange
Commission said today in a statement. The city failed to
disclose that it loaned the proceeds to a private developer,
putting the bonds’ tax-exempt status at risk, the SEC said.  “South Miami’s fraudulent conduct put bondholders in
danger of incurring significant additional costs associated with
their investments,” Elaine Greenberg, head of the agency’s
municipal securities enforcement unit, said in the statement.  The SEC has stepped up enforcement of disclosure rules for
state and local governments that borrow in the $3.7 trillion
municipal-bond market. Most of the securities issued by state
and local governments are held by individual investors seeking
safe, tax-exempt returns. The agency has also sought greater
power over issuers, whose reporting requirements are more lax
than those for corporations that sell debt and equity.  Misleading Disclosures  Earlier this month, the SEC settled with Harrisburg,
 Pennsylvania ’s capital, over allegations it made misleading
statements about bond deals that pushed it into state
receivership. The agency previously settled with Victorville,
 California , and the state of  Illinois  for what it said were
breaches of securities laws.  “It’s pretty clear that there’s a renewed emphasis about
compliance and the fact that our industry is clearly not as
regulated as corporates,” William Oliver, a former
AllianceBernstein Holding LP muni analyst now with the National
Federation of Municipal Analysts.  “The only way they can get people to pay attention to them
is enforcement action,” he said. “That’s how the SEC gets the
point across to the industry.”  While South Miami didn’t pay a fine, it agreed to hire an
independent consultant to conduct annual reviews of its
disclosure practices for three years to settle the charges. The
city neither admitted nor denied wrongdoing, the agency said.  Donald Wall, a lawyer for South Miami at Squire Sanders
LLP, didn’t immediately respond to a telephone call seeking
comment on the settlement.  Tax-Status Risked  In 2002, South Miami borrowed through the Florida
organization, initially using $2.5 million to finance a public
parking garage and retail development. Less than a month later,
the city loaned the money to the developer who had leased the
store space. In 2005, the city revised its lease agreement,
giving the developer control of the garage as well and
jeopardizing the tax-exempt status of the debt, the SEC said.  The city failed to disclose the loan or the revised lease
terms, the SEC said in its settlement order. In August 2011,
South Miami paid about $260,000 to the Internal Revenue Service
to settle questions about the debt’s tax status and agreed to
retire related bonds using a bank loan at an added cost of about
$1.16 million, the agency said. The agreement let investors
avoid paying taxes on income from the  securities at issue.  “The tax-exempt status of municipal bonds is vitally
important to bond investors,” Greenberg said in the statement.
“We will closely scrutinize any conduct by issuers or others
that threatens that tax exemption.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  