-- Sprint’s Offer for Clearwire Fails to Sway Opponents
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-05-23T20:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/sprint-s-higherfails-to-sway.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s sweetened bid
for wireless-network partner  Clearwire (CLWR)  Corp. has failed to
persuade opponents to the takeover, raising speculation that the
company will have to raise its price again.  Since Sprint increased its bid for Clearwire by more than
14 percent to about $2.5 billion this week, two major opponents
have renewed their call to vote down the transaction. Crest
Financial Ltd., a Houston-based firm, and a group of investors
led by Mount Kellett Capital Management LP both filed letters
calling for shareholders to reject the new terms.  Sprint, which already owns slightly more than 50 percent of
Clearwire, is attempting to buy the remaining stake for $3.40 a
share -- a price that values the total business at $10.7
billion. The shareholder opposition means Sprint must
contemplate an even higher offer, said Kevin Smithen, an analyst
at Macquarie Group Ltd.  “We think $3.75 gets the deal done,” said Smithen, who
has the equivalent of a buy rating on Sprint and is neutral on
Clearwire.  Mount Kellett, based in New York, forged its alliance with
other shareholders earlier this month to coax Sprint into making
a better offer. The group, which includes Highside Capital
Management LP, Glenview Capital Management LLC and Chesapeake
Partners Management Co., said yesterday that it remains opposed
to the Sprint bid. The group accounts for more than 18 percent
of Clearwire’s publicly traded shares.  Holding Out  The shareholders are still holding out for a better
alternative even after Clearwire’s board endorsed the bid and
ruled out offers from  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and Verizon Wireless.  “The opposing group stayed together,” said Kevin Roe, an
analyst at Roe Equity Research in Dorset,  Vermont . “They are
the enabling bloc.”  The coalition members “continue to unanimously believe
that the proposed price offered by Sprint is too low,” the
group said in a filing.  Clearwire investors were scheduled to vote on the earlier
bid this week in Bellevue,  Washington , where the company is
based. When Sprint increased the price, the meeting was pushed
back until May 31.  Clearwire shares  gained 1.2 percent to $3.42 at the close
in New York. The stock has climbed 18 percent this year.  Crest, the other major opponent to the Sprint takeover,
said this week that the new terms weren’t satisfactory. The
investment firm urged Clearwire’s board to consider a separate,
competitive process to seek fresh proposals.  Dish Proposal  Dish, the satellite-TV provider controlled by billionaire
 Charlie Ergen , offered $3.30 a share for Clearwire in January.
While investors reacted by pushing the stock up above the price
of the Dish bid, Clearwire said yesterday in a  filing  that no
concrete proposal ever materialized.  Dish made a separate $25.5 billion offer to acquire Sprint
in April, taking the focus off of its Clearwire bid. Since that
time, Clearwire has “not had any substantive discussions” with
Dish and has received no “actionable proposal,” according to
the filing. Bob Toevs, a spokesman for Englewood, Colorado-based
Dish, declined to comment.  The offer from Verizon also wasn’t practical, Clearwire
said. While Verizon said it would pay Clearwire between $1
billion and $1.5 billion for spectrum in 25 major cities, the
after-tax proceeds would have been about $550 million to $850
million, according to the filing.  Funding Gap  Clearwire has said it needs at least $1.7 billion to keep
operating, suggesting that the spectrum sale to Verizon wouldn’t
have closed that funding gap.  “We indicated our interest in the Clearwire spectrum and
are in the process of doing our diligence,” said Torod Neptune,
a spokesman for  Verizon Wireless . “Should there be an
opportunity to purchase it we remain interested.”  Sprint’s majority ownership in Clearwire also creates
hurdles for other parties seeking to make a deal. The  Overland
Park , Kansas-based company wants to gain full control of
Clearwire so that it can tap its valuable wireless spectrum,
which Sprint will use to build out its own network.  Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier, is winding
down a five-year joint venture with Clearwire. The two
companies, backed by a coalition of technology and cable-industry partners, had sought to build a nationwide wireless
network.  After billions in losses, Clearwire now says the Sprint
takeover is its best remaining option.  “The revised offer, when compared with other potential
transactions reasonably available to the company at this time,
is the most favorable potential transaction,” Clearwire said
yesterday in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  