-- SSE Plans Reduced Renewables Spending Share as Favors Networks
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-05-22T14:51:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/sse-plans-reduced-renewables-spending-share-as-favors-networks.html
SSE Plc (SSE)  plans to reduce its share of
spending on renewable energy through March 2015 in favor of
increased investment in its networks business, where rates for
power and gas distribution and transmission are regulated.  Renewables will probably account for about 30 percent of
capital expenditure for the period compared with the three years
to March last year when it made up about 50 percent, the Perth,
Scotland-based utility said today in a statement.  The U.K. is reshaping the way it incentivizes power
generation through legislation before parliament with a system
guaranteeing so-far unspecified prices for low-carbon power and
paying plants for providing back-up electricity. Network
businesses are regulated by watchdog Ofgem with price controls
offering stable revenue flows.  “There is an undoubted switch with renewables reducing and
regulating networks increasing,” Chief Executive Officer Ian Marchant said today on a conference call. “It’s more a natural
evolution of our capital plan, than a reaction to policy,” he
said, as the company completed larger wind projects and focused
on smaller operations.  SSE spent 382.6 million pounds ($578 million), or 26
percent of its 1.49 billion-pound investment in the year to
March, on renewables. That compares with 852.3 million pounds of
a 1.71 billion-pound total spent in the previous year, SSE said.  “This means that, for the first year since 2007/08,
renewable energy did not comprise the largest element of SSE’s
capital and investment expenditure,” the U.K.’s second-biggest
energy supplier said in the statement. Network spending
surpassed it with 45.5 percent.  Biggest Proportion  Networks provide a “relatively stable revenue flow,” and
are likely to require the biggest proportion of investment
through March 2015, SSE said.  SSE already outlined plans to curb thermal generation
capacity by about 2,000 megawatts and postponed investment in
new gas plants until at least 2015 because of soaring costs for
 carbon emissions  and uncertainty over the capacity market plan.  SSE plans to make a decision on its 504-megawatt Galloper
offshore wind farm, a venture with RWE Npower Renewables,
probably next year, Alistair Phillips-Davies, who becomes CEO
when Marchant steps down in July, said on the call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  