-- Stockland Raises A$400 Million to Fund Projects, Repay Debt
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-05-22T07:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/stockland-raises-a-400-million-to-fund-developments-repay-debt.html
Stockland,  Australia ’s biggest
diversified property trust, yesterday raised A$400 million ($393
million) in an oversubscribed share sale to fund planned
developments and repay debt.  The company sold 103.1 million shares to institutional
investors in a fully underwritten placement through UBS AG, it
said in a statement to the Australian stock exchange. The shares
were priced at A$3.88, a 2.5 percent discount to yesterday’s
closing price, it said.  Stockland won’t proceed with a dividend reinvestment plan
for its June distribution, it said today. The company last week
said a reinvestment plan is “appealing” and may consider a 50
percent underwritten one over the next 12 months. The  shares 
fell 2.8 percent to A$3.87 at the close of trading in Sydney,
paring gains this year to 9.6 percent. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200
Index ended the day down 0.3 percent.  At first, the equity raising by  Stockland (SGP) , which is trading
at a 14 percent premium to the value of its assets, “may appear
rational,” John Kim, head of Australia property research at
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, wrote in an e-mailed note. Still,
“raising equity with no immediate proceeds, in our view, is an
effective way to reduce a company’s valuation premium.”  Mark Steinert, who took over as Stockland’s managing
director in January, last week said the company will increase
its exposure to retail and industrial properties, a partial
change from his predecessor Matthew Quinn, who steered the
company away from warehouses and offices. The raising will help
fund the Sydney-based property trust’s A$1.5 billion of retail
developments, as it advances its plan to boost retail properties
to as much as 70 percent of its business within five years, from
about 47 percent as of Dec. 31, it said.  “The additional funding ensures Stockland has the capacity
to implement our recently announced strategy,” Steinert said in
the statement. “The proceeds will also be used for the
repayment of debt, reducing Stockland’s balance sheet gearing by
approximately 3 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  