-- Stonegate Raises $115 Million to Fund Jumbo Mortgage Expansion
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-05-22T13:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/stonegate-raises-115-million-to-fund-jumbo-mortgage-expansion.html
Stonegate Mortgage Corp., the closely
held lender that originated almost twice as much debt last
quarter as in all of 2011, sold $115 million of common shares in
a private offering to continue its expansion.  The company will use the funds to fuel originations of
loans not intended for government-backed programs, as well as to
build its portfolio of servicing contracts, Chief Executive
Officer Jim Cutillo said in a telephone interview. After
recently starting to grant such jumbo mortgages directly to
consumers, the Indianapolis-based firm plans to offer the
product to its brokers and correspondents this month, he said.  Stonegate joins lenders including W.J. Bradley Mortgage
Capital LLC, Shellpoint Partners LLC and Pennymac Mortgage
Investment Trust with plans to start contributing to a slow thaw
in sales of so-called non-agency mortgage bonds. The market will
grow more important as U.S.-controlled  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac  raise their guarantee fees to scale back the government’s
role in financing about 90 percent of new loans, Cutillo said.  “You can start to see the tide turning,” he said.
“People are going to be scrambling to figure out what their
non-agency strategies are.”  FBR & Co managed the share sale for Stonegate, which now
services $5.7 billion of mortgages and originated about $1.8
billion last quarter, $3.5 billion last year and $1 billion in
2011. Its volumes may reach $10 billion this year, Cutillo said.  Slow Acceleration  While non-agency issuance has grown to about $6 billion
this year from $3.5 billion in all of 2012, Barclays Plc
analysts said in a report yesterday that the expansion will be
slow to accelerate, and they maintained a 2013 forecast of $12
billion to $15 billion. Issuance peaked at about $1.2 trillion
in each of 2005 and 2006, before the debt’s tumbling values as
 foreclosures  soared helped cause a global financial crisis.  The revival will be limited by widening spreads on the top-rated portions of transactions as issuance expands, agency bond-guarantee fees low enough to offer larger profits to lenders and
bank demand for the safest loans, the analysts led by Sandeep Bordia said.  Still, over the next 12 to 18 months, “non-agencies could
become competitive in a broader part of the market,” especially
if the size of debt that  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac can finance
drops and regulators finish work on new rules, they wrote.  Becoming ‘Competitive’  Jumbo home loans are those larger than allowed in
government-supported programs, currently as much as $729,750 for
single-family properties in high-cost areas. For Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac loans with the lowest costs for borrowers using 20
percent down payments, limits range from $417,000 to $625,500.  Stonegate expects loans in that expanded range to also soon
make their way into the non-agency market, Cutillo said. The
firm’s potential bonds will offer something new for investors
because it works with about 700 small and mid-size originators
across the country, such as “the guy on Main Street in  Oklahoma 
who doesn’t really have anybody to sell to,” he said.  With recent deals, the “geographical concentration remains
a concern,” with much of the debt tied to  San Francisco  and  Los
Angeles , the Barclays analysts said. The risks are limited by
the high quality of the mortgages, they said.  Stonegate, which raised $25 million in 2012 from private-equity firm Long Ridge Equity Partners, is now “institutionally
held” by investors including insurers, real-estate investment
trusts and  hedge funds , Cutillo said. The firm last year
 acquired  warehouse lender NattyMac from Guggenheim Partners,
which will also help in its non-agency expansion, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 