-- Stop Lavishing Money on Rich Farmers Who Don’t Need It
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-05-22T22:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/stop-lavishing-money-on-the-rich-farmers-who-don-t-need-i.html
The deal in December to avert the so-called fiscal cliff had one welcome consequence: It derailed a
new farm bill, the $100 billion annual spending package that’s
renewed every five years and filled with subsidies for some of
the U.S.’s most prosperous businesses.  To keep the money flowing to farmers, as well as to  food-stamp  recipients, the 2008 bill was extended until this
September, allowing Congress time to come up with a bill that
would cut unnecessary handouts to farmers while preserving
safety-net programs. Instead, Congress is poised to make ill-advised cuts and dole out fresh largess to farmers who don’t
need it.  That’s shameful, especially because President  Barack Obama 
provided a good starting point in his proposed  budget . It called
for trimming spending by almost $38 billion during the next 10
years by eliminating the $5 billion in annual direct payments to
owners of farmland and reducing subsidies for crop insurance.  Congress should build on this, starting with strict means
testing for farm benefits. U.S. farmers as a group, with an
average annual household income of more than $89,000, are much
better off than most Americans. This year, farm  net income  will
reach $128 billion, the highest in inflation-adjusted terms in
40 years.  Congress also should cap subsidies to individual farmers at
$40,000 a year, saving  $1 billion annually .  Crop Insurance  Although Congress will probably eliminate direct cash
handouts to owners of farmland, the agriculture lobby has
persuaded legislators to make crop insurance even more lucrative
than it already is. This $9 billion annual subsidy is supposed
to help farmers protect their harvests. But it is  insurance  in
name only and amounts to a dollar-for-dollar transfer, paying
farmers for minor declines in crop yields. Insurance should help
farmers cope with catastrophic losses from floods or droughts,
not guarantee hefty incomes.  The Senate, which is dominated by Democrats, seems content
with aiming low. It plans to vote on a farm bill that saves just
$24 billion over the next decade. This includes $6 billion
mandated this year by the budget sequestration.  The Republican-controlled House is considering lowering
spending by about $40 billion in the next decade. About half the
cuts would come from nutrition programs, which make up about
three-fourths of all farm-bill spending.  This reduction in support for  food stamps  is about five
times greater than what the Senate calls for and would harm
people who need  government aid . About 80 percent of food-stamp
recipients are elderly, disabled or children; their average
benefit is $4.45 a day.  Food-stamp rolls have  increase d to 47 million largely
because of the rise in unemployment and poverty after the 2008
financial crisis, setbacks that the economy has yet to overcome.
The Obama administration also made it easier to qualify for food
stamps, which help the poor more efficiently than other forms of
welfare, stimulate the economy and, yes, support the farm
sector.  The  Congressional Budget Office   forecasts  that spending on
food stamps will peak this year at $82 billion and then, as the
economy improves, decline by about $1 billion a year.  If Congress wants to reform food stamps, it should order
the Agriculture Department to put tighter restrictions on what
food recipients can buy. The goal should be to help people eat
better, not to deny them food. That will be easier to accomplish
if Congress stops wasting money on farmers who are doing fine
without it.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 