-- Suntech Tops Slump as Spreadtrum Surges: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-05-22T21:42:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/suntech-tops-slump-as-spreadtrum-surges-china-overnight.html
Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  tumbled,
leading a slump in Chinese equities traded in New York, on
concern the European Union will impose import duties on  China ’s
solar products.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slid 2.2 percent to 93.9 yesterday,
sinking the most in five weeks. Suntech, the biggest solar-panel
maker in 2011, plunged as its shares’ 50-day volatility surged
to a four-year high.  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  fell the
most since May 2012, while  Huaneng Power International Inc. (HNP) 
extended losses after Deutsche Bank AG downgraded the stock.
 Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD)  rebounded after a two-day
decline.  While officials from the U.S., China and the EU have
engaged in preliminary talks to settle a dispute over solar-energy products, according to people familiar with the
situation, the EU said May 21 it will stick to its June 6
deadline to decide on duties. China and the EU failed to reach
an agreement on export prices in their first round of
negotiations, China’s official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped the most in
three weeks amid concern that the Federal Reserve will scale
back its stimulus efforts.  “In general, if the EU implements tariffs on Chinese
panels, that would hurt demand for solar because the price of
solar will go up,” Gordon Johnson, an analyst at Axiom Capital
Management Inc. in New York, said by phone. “Solars are already
decisively more expensive than traditional fossil-based
energies. The EU’s tariffs will hurt demand further.”  ETF Plunges  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., sank 1.5 percent in New York
to $37.54, slumping for a second day. The S&P slipped 0.8
percent to 1,655.30, the most since May 1, after Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in remarks to Congress that the
central bank could “step down” the pace of asset purchases in
the next few meetings if the labor market continues to improve.  Suntech’s American depositary receipts tumbled 20 percent
to $1.02 in New York, after surging 98 percent in the previous
three days. Fifty-day volatility on the stock soared to 211
yesterday, the highest level since January 2009. That would
compare with an average of 105 over the past year.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK) , the Chinese solar-panel maker that has
reported seven straight quarters of losses, dropped 19 percent
to $1.66, retreating from a four-month high.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) ,
also based in Changzhou, lost 15 percent to $6.11, while Yingli
Green Energy Holding Co. sank 15 percent to $3.02, after posting
a 44 percent gain in a three-day advance.  The rally earlier this week was partly due to solar
manufacturer’s mixed earnings, according to Axiom’s Johnson.  Solar Earnings  JA Solar Holdings Co., the largest solar-cell producer by
capacity, said May 20 first-quarter shipments exceeded the
Shanghai-based company’s forecast on strong demand in  Japan .
Yingli, the world’s largest solar-panel maker, reported a day
later first-quarter shipments declined less than it had
previously forecast, according to preliminary figures.  “The market’s ignoring negative earnings and reacting very
favorably to positive earnings,” Axiom’s Johnson said. “JA
Solar results reported this week were slightly better than
expected. People got very excited about this because the stocks
had been beaten down and everyone was looking for a bottom.”  Options trading and investors buying shares to cover their
short sales are “exacerbating” moves in the Chinese solar
stocks, increasing their volatility, Chris Kettenman, Chief
Energy Strategist at Prime Executions Inc. in New York, said by
phone yesterday. In a short sale, an investor borrows a security
and sells it, expecting to profit from a decline by buying it
back at a lower price.  ADRs of Huaneng, China’s biggest electricity producer,
slipped 2.5 percent to a one-month low of $41.50, extending a
three-day slump to 16 percent. Its Hong Kong-traded shares fell
8.3 percent to HK$7.94, or $1.02, yesterday. Each ADR represents
40 shares.  Power Tariff  Citigroup cut its recommendation on Huaneng to neutral from
buy, lowering a price target for its Hong Kong shares to HK$9.2
from HK$11.25. Analysts led by Pierre Lau said in a note
yesterday China may cut on-grid tariff for coal-fired power
plants in the third quarter by 2 percent.  Phoenix New Media Ltd. (FENG) , a Beijing-based Internet, TV and
mobile-news provider, jumped 9.2 percent to $4.89, the steepest
advance since June. The company had the largest gain on the
China-US gauge. Trading volume on its ADRs was four times the
daily average in the past three months.  Spreadtrum, a Shanghai-based mobile-chip designer, surged
4.8 percent to $18.68 yesterday, rebounding after an 8.4 percent
decline in the first two days of the week.  Thirty-day volatility  on the China-US gauge rose to 23
yesterday, the highest level since August. The  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese shares retreated 0.1 percent
to 2,302.40, after rising for five days. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  in Hong Kong slipped 0.3 percent to 11,053.04,
for a second day of declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net  