-- Support for Syrian Opposition Will Grow, Kerry Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-05-23T01:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/support-for-syrian-opposition-will-grow-kerry-says.html
The U.S. and its allies will expand
backing for Syrian rebels and consider all options short of
deploying American troops if diplomacy doesn’t halt a bloody
civil war, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said.  The U.S. and Arab and European allies, meeting in  Jordan ,
agreed to “further increase their support for the opposition
and take all other steps as necessary” until negotiations
between the Syrian government and rebel leaders produce a
transitional government, according to a joint statement released
today at 12:30 a.m. after talks ended.  “This is a pivotal moment,” Kerry said at the opening of
talks yesterday by the U.S. and 10 countries supporting the
opposition to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime. “The
only alternative to a negotiated settlement” is “more killing,
more innocent civilian deaths, more chaos, more instability in a
part of the world that has already suffered too much from it.”  Without the threat of outside nations increasing military
aid to rebel forces, the Syrian regime appears unwilling to
revise its calculus that it’s winning the war and Assad isn’t
likely to make concessions, said a State Department official who
briefed reporters on condition of not being identified.  The 11-nation meeting, intended to show united support for
the opposition, included discussions about lifting a European
Union arms embargo so some nations would be free to assist the
rebels militarily if they chose to, the official said after
talked concluded.  Peace Conference  Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov have
proposed an international peace conference where both sides in
 Syria  could negotiate toward a cease-fire in the 26-month civil
war and establish a transitional government.  Kerry yesterday tempered expectations for the peace
conference the U.S. has said it hopes can be held in June.  “I don’t have any illusions about how difficult it is to
find that path forward” to a negotiated end to the fighting,
Kerry said at a news conference in Amman with Jordanian Foreign
Minister Nasser Judeh.  Syrian opposition groups haven’t yet committed to
participating in a peace conference, said the U.S. official who
briefed reporters. Opposition representatives are meeting this
week in Istanbul to select coalition leaders and will discuss
the peace talks there, the official said.  Kerry condemned intervention on Assad’s behalf by Lebanese
Hezbollah militants and  Iran  and described a “compelling urgent
need” to find a way to end fighting that, according to the
United Nations, has killed more than 70,000 people.  Sectarian Tensions  Hezbollah’s “active military support to the Assad regime”
is worsening sectarian tensions in Syria and “perpetuates the
regime’s campaign of terror against its own people,” Kerry
said. “In addition to that, Iranians are on the ground,”
supporting Hezbollah and “contributing significantly to this
violence.”  The communique issued by the 11 nations at the Amman talks
“denounced the intervention of foreign combatants fighting on
behalf of the regime” and called for immediate withdrawal of
fighters from the Lebanese Hezbollah militia, Iran and other
countries.  In addition to the U.S. and Jordan, the meeting included
leaders from  Turkey , Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates,
Qatar,  Egypt , the U.K.,  France ,  Germany  and  Italy .  The countries also “expressed their strong concern” over
“growing radicalism on both sides of the conflict” and the
presence of “terrorist elements.”  Kerry expressed concern that continued fighting would lead
to the disintegration of Syria and sectarian bloodletting.  Foreign Fighters  “There will be more foreign fighters, there will be more
extremists, there will be more danger to the volatility of the
region,” Kerry said. “There may be more ethnic cleansing, more
massacres. Syria may break up into different parts.”  Kerry dismissed reports of recent military gains by Syrian
government forces as “very temporary.”  While President  Barack Obama  has said the U.S. won’t send
ground troops into Syria, “he has also made it clear that he
intends to support the broad-based opposition and he has taken
no options off the table,” Kerry said. “We have to hope that
Bashar Assad and his regime will understand the meaning of that,
and the Iranians and others will understand the meaning of
that.”  Iran, which backs the Syrian regime, could find a way to
help resolve the crisis rather than exacerbating it, Kerry said.  “The benefit of a political settlement is in everybody’s
interest,” Kerry said. “I think that’s true for Lebanon and
that’s true for Iran, and hopefully the Iranians could find
themselves even finding a way to be contributing somehow to a
solution rather than making the problem worse.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Amman, Jordan at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  