-- Swedish Police Arrest Eight as Husby Riots Spread in Stockholm
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-05-22T08:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/swedish-police-arrest-eight-as-husby-riots-spread-in-stockholm.html
Swedish police arrested eight people
after riots in Husby spread to other  Stockholm  suburbs last
night as young people set fire to cars and schools and
vandalized property.  About 30 cars burned overnight in suburbs including Husby,
Jakobsberg, Norsborg and Vaarberg, Kjell Lindgren, a spokesman
for the Swedish Police, said by phone today. In Husby, a school
and the Husby Gaard cultural center were set on fire while
rubbish bins burned across Stockholm’s western and southern
suburbs. A school was also set alight in the Skaerholmen suburb,
and a police station and buildings in central Jakobsberg were
vandalized.  The riots began in Husby on May 19, about a week after a
69-year-old man brandishing a knife was killed by police in an
apartment.  Sweden , which has Scandinavia’s highest youth
unemployment rate, has suffered from riots before. In 2008,
young people in Rosengaard in the southern city of Malmoe
clashed with police after setting fire to cars and bins. Those
riots also spread to the Stockholm suburbs of Tensta and Husby.  “There is a core, as there often is, of young men who
believe in using violence and who believe that this use of
violence is above our democratic values and above Swedish law,”
Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt told reporters in Stockholm
yesterday. “The people of Husby must get their suburb back
because the majority want to live in calmness and safety.”  The people arrested for vandalism and setting cars on fire
were born between 1991 and 1995, police spokesman Lindgren said.
The police officers who patrolled the capital city’s suburbs
last night “felt the atmosphere was less confrontational than
on previous nights,” said Lindgren. Police remain prepared in
case of further riots tonight and is probing claims that
officers used racist slurs, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net ;
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  