-- Sweden’s LKAB Doubles Spending to Find ‘Elephant’ Iron Mine
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2013-05-22T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/sweden-s-lkab-doubles-spending-to-find-elephant-iron-mine.html
LKAB is doubling spending on
exploration in  Sweden ’s Arctic as the state-owned company
targets finding a deposit to match its Kiirunavaara mine, the
world’s largest contiguous body of  iron ore .  LKAB will boost its exploration spending to 200 million
kronor ($30 million) annually from 100 million kronor and is
hiring more geologists to guide it to potential deposits, Chief
Executive Officer Lars-Eric Aaro said in a May 20 interview.  “There’s a saying in mining, especially when you’re
looking for big volume bodies, that if you’re looking for
elephants you have to go to elephant land -- and our part of the
world is elephant land,” he said. “We now have the equipment
to look at rocks deeper down but what’s under there is so far
totally unknown. But, the geology is there and there could be a
new Kiirunavaara mine -- it will just be deeper underground.”  Sweden sits on 60 percent of  Europe ’s known iron ore and 2
percent of the global total. Prime Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt 
has said that the resource ore is equivalent to what oil has
meant for Norway since it was discovered in the 1960s.  LKAB, which is moving parts of the towns of Kiruna and
Malmberget to ensure it can continue production in those two
locations, had sales of  27 billion kronor  and a profit of 8.8
billion kronor last year. LKAB paid a dividend of 5 billion
kronor to the Swedish state for 2012, equivalent to 0.6 percent
of the government’s  forecast income  in 2013, as well as taxes of
3.77 billion kronor. Those contributions to Sweden’s budget are
likely to increase as LKAB opens new mines and expands.  Increased Production  LKAB forecasts an increase in production to at least 37
million tons by 2015, from 26.3 million tons last year, as it
opens three new open-pit mines in Svappavaara, near its existing
mines in Kiruna and Malmberget. The company is likely to then
continue to increase production volumes as it has “very good
portfolios of exploration,” LKAB’s CEO said.  “The 37 million tons we forecast in 2015 is absolutely not
a cap for the future,” Aaro said. “If we’re successful, can
control costs and develop markets for our products, it would be
possible to take the next action by 2020 and a logical next step
by 2025 or so would be production of 50 million tons.”  The next discoveries are likely to be found at depths of
200 meters or more, unlike the close-to-surface bodies in Kiruna
or Svappavaara, Aaro said.  Geology There  Northern Scandinavia is still “underexplored,” mainly
because prospecting was more or less forbidden for foreign
companies in Sweden until 1992, Aaro said.  “I’m optimistic that there’s a lot more to do both in
Sweden, Norway and  Finland ,” he said. “The geology really is
there. This will be important for the growth of Europe and our
ability to feed metal-producers in Europe, because Europe is
still import-dependent in terms of iron ore.”  Still, LKAB is too dependent on Europe for its exports of
iron ore products and aims to diversify its geographical
distribution, said Aaro. Last year, LKAB shipped 67 percent of
its products to Europe and 28 percent to  Asia  and the Middle
East. It started its first deliveries to  China  in 2009 and is
now expanding its presence in the Middle East and  North America ,
said Aaro. LKAB, which has two offices in mainland China and one
in  Hong Kong , is opening an office in Dubai in October, with a
total of 10 employees, Aaro said.  “More or less the whole production increase we foresee
until 2015, or about 10 million tons, will go directly to Asia
and the  Middle East ,” Aaro said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo on  at
 jbergman@bloomberg.ne  