-- Swiss Billionaires Buy Merck Geneva Building for Biotech Campus
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-05-22T14:39:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/swiss-billionaires-buy-merck-geneva-building-for-biotech-campus.html
Swiss billionaires Ernesto Bertarelli
and Hansjoerg Wyss have acquired  Merck KGaA (MRK) ’s Geneva
headquarters to turn it into a biotechnology campus.  Bertarelli, who founded Geneva-based drugmaker Serono and
sold it to Merck for $13.3 billion in 2007, formed a consortium
with Wyss to buy the 725,000 square-foot (67,355 square-meter)
building, the group said in a statement today. The group didn’t
disclose the price for a building that cost $1.25 billion to
construct, according to Hamburg-based Emporis GmbH.  Universities in Geneva and Lausanne will form an institute
to conduct bio- and neuro-engineering research at the site,
while the group said it also plans to attract startups and other
businesses. Investor interest in the Swiss biotech hub that
emerged out of the success of  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,
Europe’s biggest drugmakers by sales, has receded after setbacks
in developing new medicines.  “This project constitutes a unique opportunity to increase
research and development in the biotechnology sector of the Lake
Geneva region and its related  job creation ,” Patrick Aebischer,
president of the Lausanne-based university known as EPFL by its
French acronym, said in the statement.  Merck, based in Darmstadt,  Germany , said in April last year
that it planned to close the Geneva site to cut costs.  Designed by architect Helmut Jahn, the building sits on a
6.5-acre (2.6-hectare) site overlooking Lake Geneva and features
an atrium with a 10,800 square-foot glass-and-steel roof that
tilts open to cool the space in warm weather, according to
Architectural Record. It also has a water wall in the lobby that
humidifies the space in winter and allows for cooling in summer.  Wyss is the founder of Synthes, which was acquired by
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  for $19.7 billion last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  