-- U.A.E. Banks to Morocco Return to Bond Market as Yields Drop
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-05-22T12:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/u-a-e-banks-to-morocco-return-to-bond-market-as-yields-drop.html
Two United Arab Emirates banks raised
$1.3 billion from bonds sales and Morocco plans to boost the
size of its existing dollar-denominated notes as  Middle East 
issuers take advantage of falling borrowing costs.  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES)  sold $1 billion in bonds that don’t
mature, the second sale by the Dubai-based lender this year,
according to four people familiar with the matter.  Abu Dhabi
Commercial Bank PJSC (ADCB)  returned to the  bond market  for the third
time this year, selling $300 million in 10-year securities, two
people said. Morocco hired Barclays Plc, BNP Paribas SA,
Citigroup Inc. and Natixis to manage its sale, one person said.  “It’s a good time to tap the  debt market  and take
advantage of the low yield levels at the moment,” Hakim Azaiez,
the head of investment at GCA Asset Management in London, said
by e-mail today. “There is also a factor that  interest rate  may
rise and that would be another reason for this flow of
issuance.”  The average yield on bonds of financial institutions in the
six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council fell 19 basis points this
year to 2.88 percent on May 21, according to the HSBC/NASDAQ
Dubai GCC Conventional Financial Services US Dollar Bond Index.
The offerings bring sales in the Middle East and North Africa to
more than $21 billion this year and compares with $19.3 billion
in the year-earlier period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Emirates NBD, the U.A.E.’s second biggest bank, priced the
bond to yield at 5.75 percent, said the people, who asked not to
be named because the details are private. The lender last tapped
international bond markets in March, raising $750 million in 10-year notes. Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank sold its debt at 220 basis
points over the benchmark midswap rate, the people said.  The yield on  Morocco ’s $1 billion of 4.25 percent bonds due
December 2022 has declined 13 basis points, or 0.13 of a
percentage point, this year to 4.06 percent at 3:55 p.m. in
Dubai. The kingdom sold the securities along with its debut 30-year securities in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  