-- U.K. Budget Deficit Widens as IMF Prepares to Deliver Verdict
-- B y   A n d r e w   A t k i n s o n
-- 2013-05-22T08:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/u-k-budget-deficit-widens-as-imf-prepares-to-deliver-verdict.html
Britain’s underlying budget deficit
widened in April, dealing a blow to Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne as the International Monetary Fund prepares to
deliver its verdict on the U.K. economy.  The shortfall excluding temporary support for banks was
10.2 billion pounds ($15.4 billion), compared with 8.9 billion
pounds a year earlier, the Office for National Statistics said
in  London  today. The figures exclude the transfer of 3.9 billion
pounds of cash from the Bank of England’s asset-purchase program
last month.  The report come hours before IMF officials are due to
announce the findings of their annual Article IV review. Since
April, when the IMF urged Osborne to consider easing his
deficit-cutting program to spur growth, the economy has shown
signs of gaining momentum with gross domestic product rising 0.3
percent in the first quarter and inflation slowing in April.  We’re more optimistic on the shorter term,” said Samuel
Tombs, an economist at Capital economics in London. “On the
medium term, we’re still expecting pretty weak growth. We’re
also forecasting higher borrowing for this year.”  Borrowing was revised lower in the fiscal year ended March
to 119.5 billion pounds from a previously estimated 120.6
billion pounds. The  Office for Budget Responsibility  predicts a
deficit of 119.8 billion pounds, or 7.5 percent of GDP, in the
current fiscal year.  The public finances traditionally get a boost in April, the
first months of the fiscal year, from quarterly payment of tax
on company profits. Excluding BOE coupon income, tax income was
flat in April on the year and spending rose 1.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Atkinson in London at 
 a.atkinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  