-- U.K. Banks Poised to Plug Capital Gap Without Shareholder
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-05-23T07:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/u-k-banks-poised-to-plug-capital-gap-without-shareholder.html
Britain’s five biggest banks are
poised to plug their part of a 25 billion-pound ($38 billion)
capital shortfall identified by regulators without turning to
shareholders for money.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  plan to achieve capital levels required by the U.K.
regulator by shrinking their balance sheets and selling assets,
the firms said in separate statements yesterday.  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  have also ruled out share sales, according
to two people familiar with their plans who asked not to be
identified because they weren’t permitted to talk publicly.
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  said it already meets requirements.  U.K. banks have been seeking ways to strengthen their
balance sheets since the  Bank of England  said in November it was
concerned that they weren’t holding enough  capital . The
Prudential Regulation Authority, a unit of the central bank,
ordered banks in March to plug the shortfall by the end of the
year to cover bigger potential losses, possible fines for mis-selling and stricter risk models.  “This is confirmation from the Bank of England that the
capital debate is over and we can move on,” said Chirantan Barua, a banking analyst at Bernstein Research in  London .
“British banks are generating lots of capital this year and
next. The funding problem in the U.K. is over.”  Shares Drop  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-biggest bank, fell 3.6 percent
to 321.75 pence at 8:55 a.m. in London. Lloyds slipped 3.2
percent to 60.95 pence, while RBS decreased 4.3 percent to
334.50 pence. HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank, dropped 3.1 percent
to 744 pence, while  Standard Chartered  fell 3 percent.  Lloyds, the second-largest British government-owned lender
after RBS, said in a statement from London today that it sold
another stake in wealth manager St. James’s Place Plc for about
450 million pounds, the second such move since March, when it
raised gross proceeds of 520 million pounds.  Barclays sold about $4 billion of contingent capital notes,
or Cocos, in November and April and RBS said earlier this year
it would sell a 25 percent stake in Citizens Financial Group
Inc., a U.S. consumer and commercial lender. RBS’s U.S. unit,
which is mostly comprised of Citizens, had revenue of about 3.1
billion pounds in 2012, accounting for about 12 percent of the
British bank’s total.  CoCos ‘Option’  RBS, Lloyds and Barclays have all gained approval from
shareholders this year to be able to sell so-called CoCos. While
RBS’s plan “does not call for issuance” of CoCos, it “remains
an option,” according to the statement. Lloyds said it expects
to meet  capital requirements  without their use.  The securities convert into equity in the event that a
bank’s capital falls below a pre-set level and are designed to
protect taxpayers in a financial crisis.  In a sign of increasing financial health, HSBC said earlier
this month it plans to increase  dividend  payments to
shareholders and will ask the PRA for approval to buy back
shares as early as 2014. Barclays has also said it plans to
raise payments to shareholders.  “HSBC couldn’t have given their strategy update last week
without knowing where the PRA stood on its capital plan,” said
Michael Trippitt, an analyst at Numis Securities Ltd. in London,
who has a hold rating on the bank. “To talk of seeking approval
of buybacks, I would safely assume the PRA gave that a tick,
ditto Barclays ahead of their strategy day” in February.  Capital Buffers  Spokesmen at Barclays and HSBC declined to comment. Sarah
Bailey, a spokeswoman for the PRA, declined to give details.
Standard Chartered said in an e-mail that the PRA “confirmed
our understanding” that it already meets capital requirements.  HSBC and Standard Chartered, the two British banks that
generate most of their profit from  Asia , have the strongest core
Tier 1 capital ratios under the Basel III rules at 10.1 percent
and 10.7 percent, respectively. Barclays has a ratio of 8.2
percent, Lloyds 8.1 percent and RBS 8.2 percent.  A government-commissioned report led by  John Vickers , the
former chairman of Britain’s Independent Commission on Banking,
recommended in September 2011 that U.K. banks have a core Tier 1
ratio, a measure of financial strength, of at least 10 percent.
The Basel III rules, scheduled to be fully implemented globally
by 2019, will set the minimum core capital for banks at 4.5
percent of their assets, weighted for risk.  ‘Appropriate Steps’  So-called systemically important banks must maintain
capital ratios of between 8.5 percent and 10 percent under the
Basel rules. HSBC will have to hold 9.5 percent, Barclays 9
percent, RBS 8.5 percent, and Standard Chartered 8 percent.  Lloyds yesterday reiterated that it expects its fully-loaded core Tier 1 capital ratio to exceed 9 percent by the end
of the year and 10 percent by the end of 2014. RBS will have met
the Basel requirements by the end of this year and the Vickers
requirement by the end of 2014, Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said earlier this month.  The PRA said in a statement that Lloyds and RBS have
“advanced their plans to a position where disclosure is
appropriate.” The regulator is still in talks with other
lenders and “more information will be provided along with
confirmation that, where necessary, banks will take appropriate
steps to ensure they meet” capital recommendations, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net 
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  