-- U.K. Stocks Rise to 13-Year High on Bernanke Testimony
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-05-22T15:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/u-k-stocks-decline-from-highest-level-since-1999.html
U.K. stocks  advanced, extending their
highest level in 13 years, as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke said tightening monetary policy too soon would endanger
U.S. economic recovery.  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  and Glencore Xstrata Plc led a rally in
mining shares, each gaining at least 3.5 percent.  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  rose 2.3 percent after saying it doesn’t need to raise
equity to meet additional capital requirements.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) 
dropped 1.4 percent after reports that Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd. may choose another vendor to provide a processor.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  climbed 36.4 points, or 0.5 percent, to
6,840.27 at the close in London. The benchmark has  surged 16
percent  this year as central banks maintained stimulus measures.
The broader FTSE All-Share Index also added 0.5 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index was little changed.  “The statement by Bernanke is being read as bullish by the
markets,” said Gerard Lane, a strategist at Shore Capital in
Liverpool,  England . “He didn’t mention anything about an exit.
If by tightening we’re talking about the Fed putting the brakes
on quantitative easing, that won’t happen. But if the labor
market carries on this pace of growth, then at some point,
they’ll ease off the gas pedal.”  The volume of shares changing hands in FTSE 100 companies
was 26 percent higher than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Recovery Concern  Stocks rose, erasing losses of as much as 0.3 percent, amid
optimism the Fed will continue stimulus measures after Bernanke
said said economic growth continues to be hampered by a high
jobless rate and government spending cuts.  “A premature tightening of monetary policy could lead
interest rates to rise temporarily but would also carry a
substantial risk of slowing or ending the economic recovery and
causing inflation to fall further,” Bernanke said in a
testimony before a Joint Economic Committee of Congress.  In the U.K., Bank of England Governor Mervyn King was
defeated for a fourth month in his bid to expand stimulus, the
minutes of the central bank’s May 8-9 meeting showed. Six
members of the Monetary Policy Committee voted to keep
quantitative easing at 375 billion pounds ($568 billion) this
month. King, David Miles and Paul Fisher backed increasing it by
25 billion pounds.  A report showed U.K.  retail sales  unexpectedly fell in
April. Sales including fuel declined 1.3 percent from March, the
Office for National Statistics said in  London . The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey called for a 0.1 percent
increase.  Commodity Producers  Antofagasta jumped 3.9 percent to 1,002 pence and Glencore
Xstrata climbed 3.5 percent to 351 pence. A  gauge  of mining
shares in the FTSE 350 Index rallied 1.6 percent.  Lloyds gained 2.3 percent to 62.96 pence as Britain’s
second-largest state-owned lender said it doesn’t need to raise
more equity to reduce a capital deficit, following talks with
the Prudential Regulation Authority.  The PRA, a unit of the Bank of England that took over from
the Financial Services Authority, is informing lenders how much
capital each bank must raise to meet a 25 billion-pound
shortfall in the industry by the end of the year.  Barclays advanced 3.3 percent to 333.85 pence and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  increased 2.2 percent to 349.6 pence.  M&S, ARM  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  added 1.6 percent to 475.2 pence,
the highest price since January 2008, as Banco Santander SA
raised its recommendation on the shares to hold from underweight
and Barclays increased its 12-month price estimate on the shares
by 9 percent to 350 pence.  The U.K.’s biggest clothing retailer yesterday reported
annual profit that beat analysts’ estimates and said it will
reduce capital spending through 2015.  ARM declined 1.4 percent to 1,050 pence after websites
including Tech Radar and Digital Trends reported Samsung may
choose Intel Corp.’s Atom processor for its Galaxy Tab 3 10.1
model, after previously using ARM’s chips in its mobile devices.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  dropped 6 percent to 343.3 pence, its biggest
loss in a month, as UBS AG cut its recommendation on the shares
to neutral from buy. Prospects for a bid offer for Eurasian
Natural Resources Corp., of which Kazakhmys owns 26 percent,
have deteriorated, UBS wrote in a note.  ENRC, the metals producer being investigated by the U.K.’s
Serious Fraud Office, yesterday rejected an offer from a
consortium of buyers. The offer valued ENRC at about $4.96
billion at the end of last week, an independent committee set up
by ENRC’s board said. The offer was too low, UBS wrote.  Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW)  declined 2.3 percent to 282.6
pence after a term sheet showed UBS placed 103 million shares on
behalf of an institutional seller at 280 pence each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  