-- Holder Confirms U.S. Drones Have Killed Four Americans
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-05-23T00:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/u-s-has-killed-four-u-s-citizens-in-drone-strikes-holder-says.html
U.S. drone strikes have killed four
American citizens in counterterrorism operations overseas since
2009, Attorney General Eric Holder said today, the Obama
administration’s first public acknowledgment of those killings.  Holder, in a letter to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman
 Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, said the U.S. “specifically
targeted and killed one U.S. citizen,” al-Qaeda propagandist
Anwar Al-Awlaki, and the government is aware of three other
citizens killed since 2009.  The letter was sent the day before President  Barack Obama 
is scheduled to deliver a speech on the legal and policy
framework of the U.S. drone program and detentions of suspected
terrorists, including the prison camp at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.  Obama, who has signed a new policy document laying out the
standards for taking lethal action, plans to outline why drone
strikes are legal and necessary, according to an administration
official who asked not to be identified to preview the speech.
The president also will announce specific steps he’s taking to
keep a promise to wind down the Guantanamo prison.  Lawmakers in both parties, along with human rights groups,
have pressed the administration to disclose information about
government’s targeting of suspected terrorists outside the U.S.
Under the secretive program, unmanned aircraft have been used to
kill enemy combatants in countries from  Pakistan  to Yemen.  Leahy said in a statement he discussed the letter with
Holder and “will be reviewing it, among other materials, and
look forward to the president’s address.”  President’s Explanation  Obama promised in his February  State of the Union  address
to explain to Congress and the public how the U.S. was
targeting, detaining and prosecuting terrorists. “I recognize
that in our democracy, no one should just take my word that
we’re doing things the right way,” the president said.  Tomorrow’s speech is meant make good on that vow.  While Obama hasn’t directly addressed the administration’s
drone policy recently, he repeated on April 30 his view that
Guantanamo should be closed.  “I’ve asked my team to review everything that’s currently
being done in Guantanamo, everything that we can do
administratively,” Obama said at a news conference. “And I’m
going to reengage with Congress to try to make the case that
this is not something that’s in the best interest of the
American people.”  Congress has blocked Obama from closing the prison.  Brennan Nomination  The drone program came under closer scrutiny during the
Senate confirmation of Central Intelligence Agency Director  John Brennan , who was an architect of the drone policy while serving
as Obama’s counterterrorism chief. Senator  Rand Paul , a Kentucky
Republican, staged a 13-hour filibuster in early March over the
issue that stalled a final vote on Brennan’s nomination.  During his filibuster, Paul pressed the administration to
say whether the president had the authority to use drone strikes
on U.S. soil against Americans suspected of being a terrorist.
Holder responded in a letter to Paul that the president would
not have that power, clearing the way for Brennan’s March 7
confirmation.  Holder said in his letter today that members of Congress
will soon get more details about the drone program. Lawmakers
will be briefed about a document recently approved by Obama that
“institutionalizes” the standards and processes for approving
operations to capture or use lethal force against terrorist
targets outside the U.S., Holder said.  Framework Letter  The letter, which also was sent to congressional leadership
in the House and Senate and the senior members of the House and
Senate Judiciary, Intelligence,  Foreign Affairs , Foreign
Relations and Defense committees, outlines pieces of a framework
that dictates U.S. counterterrorism actions.  The classified standards approved by Obama are “already in
place or are to be transitioned into place,” Holder said.  “When capture is not feasible, the policy provides that
lethal force may be used only when a terrorist target poses a
continuing, imminent threat to Americans, and when certain other
preconditions, including a requirement that no other reasonable
alternatives exist to effectively address the threat, are
satisfied,” said Holder, who first provided the broad outlines
of the U.S. targeted killing policy in March 2012  speech  at
 Northwestern University ’s law school.  Lawmakers’ and human-rights groups’ questions about the use
of drones surged in the aftermath of the 2011 killing in  Yemen 
of the radical cleric al-Awlaki, a U.S. citizen, and Samir Khan,
25, a Saudi-born American of Pakistani heritage. Two weeks
later, al-Awlaki’s 16-year-old, Denver-born son, Abdulrahman,
was killed in strike in Yemen.  Jude Kenan Mohammad, a fourth U.S. citizen, was also killed
in a drone strike, according to Holder’s letter. Mohammad had
been charged in the U.S. in 2009 along with seven others for
terrorism violations. He left the U.S. for Pakistan in 2008,
according to the indictment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  