-- U.S. Bank Capital at Risk When Bond Gains Evaporate, Fitch Says
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-05-22T16:36:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/u-s-bank-capital-at-risk-when-bond-gains-evaporate-fitch-says.html
About $25 billion in unrealized bond
gains are at risk from rising interest rates that may erode
capital levels at some of the largest banks by 1 percentage
point or more, according to  Fitch Ratings .  Four years of price appreciation and growth in the  bond
portfolios  of the 15 largest banks have left them with
unrealized gains approaching a two-decade high, Fitch said today
in an e-mailed statement. The gains may be erased by rising
interest rates in a manner that could be worse than the last
cycle when gains topped out in 2002, according to the ratings
firm.  “Today’s pattern of investment portfolio price
appreciation deviates from the prior rate cycle,” Fitch said,
citing the 2002 peak. “Relative to that period, we believe
banks face additional downside risk now given the significant
price appreciation seen in fixed-income securities during a
prolonged low-rate environment.”  Fitch is the latest to warn of an impending reversal of
bond prices as Federal Reserve bond purchases drive down
 interest rates  and lead investors searching for returns to push
junk-bond yields to below 6 percent. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein has warned that the
interest-rate environment has parallels to 1994, when a sudden
and sharp increase in rates caught many investors off-guard.  An “immediate reversal” of bond gains in bank portfolios
as seen in the last cycle could trim 1 percentage point from the
capital levels at four of the largest 15 lenders under Basel III
rules, Fitch said. Fitch declined to identify the banks, or
detail years included in the last cycle.  Yields on junk-rated bonds reached an unprecedented 5.984
percent on May 9 before rising to 6.043 percent yesterday,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield
index. Junk, or high-yield bonds, are rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- at Fitch and  Standard &
Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  