-- U.S. Mass Layoffs Report for April (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2013-05-22T14:05:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/u-s-mass-layoffs-report-for-april-text-.html
Following is the text of the
monthly mass layoffs release from the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  Employers took 1,199 mass layoff actions in April involving 116,849
workers as measured by new filings for unemployment insurance benefits
during the month, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today.
(Data are seasonally adjusted.) Each mass layoff involved at least 50
workers from a single employer. Mass layoff events decreased by 138 from
March, and the number of associated initial claims decreased by 11,090.
In April, 293 mass layoff events occurred in the manufacturing sector
resulting in 29,744 initial claims. Monthly mass layoff events are
identified using administrative data sources without regard to layoff
duration. (See table 1 and the note at the end of this release.)  The national  unemployment rate  was 7.5 percent in April, essentially
unchanged from the prior month and down from 8.1 percent a year earlier.
Total nonfarm payroll employment increased by 165,000 over the month,
and increased by 2,077,000 over the year.  Industry Distribution (Not Seasonally Adjusted)  The number of mass layoff events in April was 1,174, not seasonally
adjusted, resulting in 119,196 initial claims for  unemployment
insurance . (See table 2.) Over the year, the number of average weekly
mass layoff events for April decreased by 61 to 294, and associated
average weekly initial claims decreased by 6,791 to 29,799. Fourteen of
the 19 major industry sectors in the private economy reported over-the-year decreases in average weekly initial claims, with the largest
decrease occurring in transportation and warehousing. (See table 3.)
School and employee bus transportation was the six-digit industry with
the largest number of private nonfarm initial claims due to mass layoffs
in April. (See table A.)  The manufacturing sector accounted for 22 percent of mass layoff events
and associated initial claims in the private economy in April. Within
manufacturing, the numbers of mass layoff claimants were highest in food
and in machinery. Nine of the 21 manufacturing subsectors experienced
over-the-year decreases in average weekly initial claims. (See table 3.)  Geographic Distribution (Not Seasonally Adjusted)  Among the census regions, the West had the largest number of initial
claims due to mass layoffs in April. Three of the 4 regions experienced
over-the-year decreases in average weekly initial claims, with the
largest decrease occurring in the Northeast. (See table 4.)  Among the states,  California  had the highest number of mass layoff
initial claims in April, followed by  New York ,  Pennsylvania , and  North
Carolina . Thirty-one states experienced over-the-year decreases in
average weekly initial claims, led by New York and  New Jersey . (See
table 4.)  Note  The monthly data series in this release cover mass layoffs of 50 or more
workers beginning in a given month, regardless of the duration of the
layoffs. For private nonfarm establishments, information on the length
of the layoff is obtained later and issued in a quarterly release that
reports on mass layoffs lasting more than 30 days (referred to as
“extended mass layoffs”). The quarterly release provides more
information on the industry classification and location of the
establishment and on the demographics of the laid-off workers. The
monthly data series in this release are subjected to average weekly
analysis, which mitigates the effect of differing lengths of months. See
the Technical Note for more detailed definitions and for a description
of average weekly analysis.  The Mass Layoffs news release for May 2013 is scheduled to be released
on Friday, June 21, 2013, at 10:00 a.m. (EDT).  SOURCE: U.S. Department of Labor  To contact the reporter on this story: Ainhoa Goyeneche in Washington at +1-   agoyenechecu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Marco Babic at 
   mbabic@bloomberg.net  