-- U.S. Power Grid Vulnerable to Enemy Attack, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2013-05-23T15:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/u-s-power-grid-vulnerable-to-enemy-attack-lawmakers-say.html
Several major U.S. utilities are
under “constant” cyberattack and haven’t taken precautions to
protect critical systems from Iran,  North Korea  and other
adversaries, according to a congressional survey of more than
100 companies accounting for much of the nation’s power system.  The survey shows the nation’s electrical grid remains
“highly vulnerable” to attack after four years of failed
efforts to pass major cyber-security legislation, according to
an accompanying report. Industry trade groups, including the
 Edison Electric Institute , joined by Republicans in the Senate,
opposed the bill, arguing minimum cyber-security standards would
be out-of-date by the time they were implemented.  “Our enemies have the motive, the means, and the capacity
to attack our grid with potentially catastrophic consequences,”
Representative Ed Markey, the Massachusetts Democrat who co-wrote the report released yesterday, said in an e-mail. “The
question is whether the utilities have the same determination to
protect our country against these threats.”  Power utilities are part of a core of critical
infrastructure that U.S. intelligence agencies are warning may
be targets of aggressive cyberattacks designed to cloak the East
Coast in darkness or shut off the sewers in  New York City  during
a future conflict.  Survey Questions  The report, whose other author, California Democratic
Representative  Henry Waxman , is the ranking member of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee, is based on a 15-question survey
sent to 170 electric utilities, including  Exelon Corp. (EXC) ,  Southern
Co. (SO)  and  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)   There’s no confirmed example of a massive infrastructure
attack, and the survey was designed in part to identify whether
cyber warriors are trying to breach sensitive systems or
utilities know of smaller-scale attacks that might show
adversaries are practicing.  In many cases, utilities simply didn’t answer the questions
posed by the lawmakers. Of the companies that received the
letter, more than two-thirds either didn’t respond at all or
gave minimal responses, according to the lawmakers’ report.  Among those that did respond, several described a running
battle to keep ahead of the hackers.  Constant Probes  One Midwestern utility said that its computer systems were
being probed constantly, in some cases by automated programs
designed to detect weaknesses that can be exploited later. A
utility in the Northeast reported that it was “under constant
attack” from cyber criminals.  More than a dozen utilities reported either “daily,”
“constant” or “frequent” attempts at computer intrusions.  The answers didn’t give details on the nature of the
attackers or whether they were attempting to gain access to
corporate systems or the industrial computers that actually run
the plants.  Recent warnings by security agencies have described
potentially devastating effects if sophisticated attackers
managed to damage critical systems. A report by the  National
Academy of Sciences  declassified last year found that by
disabling large transformers, attackers could plunge whole
regions of the country into darkness and that repairs could take
months.  Copied Answers  The report’s authors found evidence that some utilities
collaborated or simply cut-and-pasted answers provided by trade
groups rather than addressing their unique situations.  Four small utilities in Florida and  Texas  gave almost
identical answers to the majority of the questions, according to
an analysis by the Democrats’ staff. Others borrowed heavily
from a “coaching guide” produced by the  North American
Electric Reliability Corp. , or NERC, a private body that helps
regulate the industry, according to the lawmakers’ staff.  “If you can’t respond to a letter, I’m guessing that you
probably can’t respond to a cyberattack either,” said Jacob Olcott, a former cyber-security staffer for the Senate Commerce
Committee, which helped draft the omnibus cyber-security bill
that failed last year.  The reticence of some utilities reflects their reluctance
to divulge even to lawmakers details of security concerns or
potential vulnerabilities, the  American Public Power Association 
said in a response to the report, which it called
“misleading.”  ‘Security Reasons’  Many questions were “so specific and confidential in
nature that for security reasons, they could not be answered,”
the group said.  In some cases, the utilities’ answers suggested they had a
poor grasp of the system for alerting them to cyber-security
threats or missed many of the alerts altogether, the report’s
authors said. Asked how many grid security alerts they had
received from NERC since January 2010, the companies gave
answers that ranged from one to 50. In fact, 24 alerts had been
issued during that period.  Several utilities said that they failed to fix bugs in
control systems and other technology that had been identified
after a sophisticated attack software called Stuxnet sabotaged
 Iran ’s uranium processing facility at Natanz in 2010. Stuxnet is
widely believed to have been designed by hackers working for the
U.S. and Israeli governments in an effort to disable the site.  The flaws used by the software are now widely known, and
three years ago officials recommended 12 measures to ensure
adversaries couldn’t deploy a repurposed version of Stuxnet
against U.S. infrastructure.  Four of 45 utilities who responded to the survey hadn’t
implemented the mandatory measures and 15 of 19 utilities hadn’t
instituted several other measures which were voluntary,
according to the survey answers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net.fede  