-- Mugabe Signs Off on Zimbabwe Constitution Paving Way for Vote
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a   a n d   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-05-22T11:24:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/mugabe-signs-off-on-zimbabwe-constitution-paving-way-for-vote.html
Zimbabwe’s President  Robert Mugabe 
signed off on a new constitution after negotiations with his
main political rival, paving the way for elections this year.  The president’s signature “means that this is the supreme
law of the land,” Eric Matinenga, the minister for
constitutional affairs, told reporters at State House in Harare
today, where a signing ceremony was also attended by Prime
Minister  Morgan Tsvangirai . The charter will enter force when
published in the country’s Government Gazette later this week.  Mugabe described the constitution as “a happening of
joy.” Under it, “none in our country, young and old, this
religion, that religion, this tribe, that tribe, can say he or
she is superior to others,” he said. “There is equality,
equality, equality.”  The constitution has been in negotiation between Mugabe’s
Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front party and
Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change since the disputed
elections of 2008. After that vote, the two parties governed
together under a power-sharing agreement that brought to an end
a decade of political and economic crisis, which saw inflation
surge to 500 billion percent according to the  International
Monetary Fund .  The next election may end the coalition. The  Southern
African Development Community , which brokered talks between the
parties, said the 2008 vote was flawed and insisted on a new
constitution before the next one is held.  It won’t be “practically and technically possible” to
hold elections by June 29, the date preferred by Zanu-PF,
Matinenga said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net ;
Godfrey Marawanyika in Harare at  gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  