-- Tumblr Deal Said to Reap Spark, Union Square $192 Million
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-05-22T20:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/tumblr-deal-said-to-reap-spark-union-square-192-million.html
Tumblr Inc.’s $1.1 billion purchase
by  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  returned $192 million to two of its biggest
venture backers, a person familiar with the matter said,
disputing an estimate by research firm PrivCo.  Spark Capital and  Union Square  Ventures invested $13
million apiece, according to the person, who asked not to be
identified because the information isn’t public. That represents
about a 15-fold return for Spark, headquartered in  Boston , and
New York-based Union Square.  PrivCo, which earlier this week projected that the firms
reaped a 50-fold return, lowered its estimate to about $198
million, Chief Executive Officer Sam Hamadeh said in an
interview. Tumblr still remains among the biggest payouts the
two firms have collected from stakes in  New York  startups. Union
Square and Spark have spent about a decade supporting New York
startups, from Foursquare Labs Inc. to Skillshare Inc.  Union Square, founded in 2003, and Spark, which opened two
years later, each put $350,000 into Tumblr in 2007, the person
said. In 2008, both invested $2 million, followed by $2.5
million apiece in 2010. The firms kept making identical
investments, up until Yahoo’s offer for Tumblr, the person said.  Of the 10 startups listed as portfolio companies on both
Union Square’s and Spark’s websites, seven of them are based in
New York, including Foursquare. One is in  Canada , while the most
notable of all, Twitter Inc., is in  San Francisco . Spark
recently opened a New York office as well.  PrivCo Revisions  Tumblr is the largest venture-backed purchase for a New
York company, according to research firm CB Insights. The
second-biggest was Yahoo’s $680 million acquisition of Right
Media Inc. in 2007, the researcher said in an e-mail.  David Karp, Tumblr’s 26-year-old CEO, is getting $209
million from the sale to Yahoo, according to PrivCo.  Hamadeh said PrivCo struck an earlier projection that
Spark’s Bijan Sabet and other early investors made $77 million
from the deal. All of Sabet’s investments were made through
Spark, Hamadeh said. PrivCo’s estimated return, which is based
on $13 million in funding from each venture firm, includes money
for those who served on Tumblr’s board, he said.  Sequoia Capital , which joined the group as part of a $30
million financing round in 2010, gets $217.8 million from the
deal, PrivCo said in the updated numbers.  Union Square’s  Fred Wilson  said PrivCo’s original figures
were inaccurate in a post on  Hacker News .  Wilson and Brad Burnham are managing partners at Union
Square. Spark Capital was founded by Todd Dagres, Santo Politi
and Paul Conway, according to its website.  A representative at Spark declined to comment, while Union
Square didn’t respond to a request for comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  