-- Turkey to Tighten Alcohol Rules, Impose Ad Ban Under Draft Law
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-05-22T11:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/turkey-to-tighten-alcohol-rules-impose-ad-ban-under-draft-law.html
A Turkish parliament committee
approved a proposal to restrict the sale and marketing of
alcoholic drinks, as the country’s ruling Islamist-rooted party
said it’s not seeking a total ban.  All advertisement and promotion of alcohol will be barred
under the bill, the state-run Anatolia news agency said, citing
a draft approved by the Planning and Budget Commission in the
early hours of today that must now be debated in parliament. It
was submitted after Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan said
last month that ayran, a salted yogurt drink, was  Turkey ’s
national beverage, rather than anything alcoholic.  Sureyya Sadi Bilgic, a lawmaker from Erdogan’s Justice and
Development Party, told the commission that his party was “not
seeking to ban the consumption of alcohol but aiming to protect
children and youth from bad habits,” according to Anatolia.
Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  told the commission that it’s not
possible to calculate the financial effect of the draft.  “Obvious losers” from the legislation would include
 Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii AS (AEFES)  and  Turk Tuborg Bira &
Malt Sanayii AS (TBORG) , two listed beermakers, Julian Rimmer, a trader
at CF Global Trading in  London , said in an e-mailed note today.  The law will hurt business and exceeds its stated mandate
of protecting minors, Turyid, a group representing Turkish
restaurants and entertainment companies, said in a statement on
May 16. It said Turkey has Europe’s lowest alcohol consumption
at 1.5 liters per capita.  Diageo Concern  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s largest distiller of alcoholic
beverages, has also expressed concern over proposed curbs.
Diageo paid $2.1 billion in 2011 for Mey Icki, a producer of the
traditional Turkish spirit raki.  Lawmakers from the opposition Republican People’s Party
distributed ayran during yesterday’s commission meeting in
protest. “Let’s ban whiskey, raki and all others, this is what
you want,” Anatolia cited Mevlut Aslanoglu, a lawmaker from the
party, as saying during the debate.  The bill bans producers, importers and marketers of
alcoholic drinks from sponsor any event using their brands or
logos, with an exception for industrial fairs and scientific
activities. They also won’t be allowed to distribute gifts,
samples or promotions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net ;
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  