-- Vivendi Names Charlier SFR Head to Split CEO, Chairman Roles
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2013-05-23T07:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/vivendi-names-charlier-sfr-chief-to-split-ceo-chairman-roles.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  moved its
telecommunications chief Jean-Yves Charlier to SFR, bolstering
leadership at the French mobile-phone unit ahead of a possible
initial public offering.  Splitting the CEO and chairman roles at SFR, Paris-based
Vivendi named Charlier, 49, to take over from Stephane Roussel
and lead a six-person executive committee. Roussel will become
the unit’s chairman, SFR said yesterday.  Charlier’s move, the latest in a series of management
changes since former Vivendi CEO  Jean-Bernard Levy  was ousted in
June, leaves Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou and CEO Jean-Francois
Dubos to execute on plans to refocus Vivendi’s business on media
and away from telecommunications.  “Reinforcing governance will allow us to better face the
challenges,” Charlier wrote in a message to employees. “These
changes will give us the impulse necessary to further adapt SFR
to its new competitive context.”  Charlier, a former CEO at Promethean World Plc, which makes
electronic equipment for classrooms, in August was asked to
oversee all of Vivendi’s telecommunications assets -- SFR,
Brazilian broadband provider GVT and Maroc Telecom SA. Since
then, Vivendi has halted a planned sale of the GVT. It is
evaluating two bids for its 53 percent stake in Maroc Telecom,
 Morocco ’s biggest phone company.  Vivendi  dropped  1.3 percent to 15.40 euros at 9:21 a.m. in
Paris. The shares fell 7.9 percent this year through yesterday,
trimming the company’s market value to 20.7 billion euros ($26.6
billion).  ‘New Context’  An initial public offering of SFR, the telecommunications-to-media company’s biggest division, is an option, though not in
the near term, Vivendi’s Finance Chief, Philippe Capron, said
last month. Business at the unit must first be strengthened, he
said.  Both Roussel and Charlier described the change as a
“reinforcement” of the management team at SFR, according to
internal messages to employees. Transforming SFR faster will be
the goal for the coming months, the executives wrote yesterday.  SFR ranks as  France ’s second-largest mobile-phone company
behind  France Telecom SA. (FTE)  Last quarter, revenue slumped 11
percent to 2.6 billion euros while earnings before interest,
taxes and amortization fell 42 percent.  Despite cutting prices and revamping its offers, SFR has
struggled to stop clients from defecting to discounter  Iliad SA (ILD) ,
which last year began selling mobile subscriptions starting at 2
euros per month.  Under Roussel, SFR executed plans to simplify its structure
and cut jobs. Measures to reduce operating expenses are on track
to generate about 500 million euros in savings by the end of
2014, Vivendi said this month.  Maroc Sale  More than a year after Chairman Fourtou promised
shareholders a “no-taboo” strategy review to reorganize
Vivendi’s structure, investors are still waiting for proof that
management is committed to a revamp.  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. and QSC Qatar Telecom
last month submitted binding offers for Vivendi’s share of Maroc
Telecom. While Vivendi wants as much as 5 billion euros for the
holding, according to one person briefed on the matter, a more
realistic target would be in the range of 4 billion euros to 4.5
billion euros, two other people with knowledge of the sale have
said. The stake has a market value of $5.9 billion. A deal is
targeted for completion by October, people familiar with the
matter have said.  Vivendi also owns  Universal Music Group , video-game
publisher  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  and French pay-television
company  Canal Plus .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  