-- VTB Dares Bank Rossii to Reduce Rates for Industry Boost
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-05-22T09:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/vtb-dares-bank-rossii-to-reduce-rates-russia-overnight.html
VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest
state bank, is calling on policy makers to lower interest rates
to help spur credit just as Bank Rossii reiterates its
commitment to refrain from monetary easing.  Lowering the refinancing rate to between 5 percent and 6
percent from 8.25 percent would allow banks to reduce loan costs
and make “a big difference for the industry,” Andrey Kostin,
chief executive of VTB Group, said in an interview with
Bloomberg TV’s Ryan Chilcote yesterday in London.  Kostin’s appeal added to months of government calls for
policy makers to cut borrowing costs to spur economic growth
amid Russia’s slowest expansion since a 2009 contraction. First
Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said at an investment
conference in London yesterday that “the situation from the
economic point of view has more or less stabilized” and further
easing isn’t warranted.  The Micex Index climbed for a fourth day, adding 0.9
percent to 1435.41 by 12:52 p.m. in Moscow. A close at that
level would be the highest since March 29. The index has lost
2.6 percent this year, compared with a decline of 0.5 percent
for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. The Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index rose 0.8 percent to 95.70 in U.S. hours yesterday,
while RTS Index futures added 0.1 percent to 143,300.  Russia kept its main interest rates unchanged in May for an
eighth month after becoming the biggest emerging economy to
raise borrowing costs in 2012 with an increase in September.  Bank Rossii is scheduled to meet on interest rates in the
first half of June, just before Chairman Sergey Ignatiev steps
down to be replaced by  Elvira Nabiullina , a former economy
minister and now aide to President Vladimir Putin, on June 24.  Changing Guard  “There is a change of guard at the central bank in June,
so we expect maybe that after that there will be some movement
in that direction,” Kostin said.  While Putin has urged ministers to boost the economy and
policy makers from  Poland  to  India  reduced borrowing costs to
aid growth, Bank Rossii has held the  refinancing rate  at 8.25
percent since September with inflation at least one percentage
point above its target this year. Monetary easing is “likely to
worsen the situation,” former Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin
said at the conference sponsored by VTB. He said Russia needs
“structural measures” and the economy of the world’s largest
energy exporter remains too depended on oil.  Russia’s economy may expand as much as 3 percent this year,
Ulyukayev said. That would be the slowest pace since 2009, when
gross domestic product shrank 7.8 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The  Micex index (INDEXCF) , with six of the 10 biggest
companies in the oil and natural gas sectors, has the cheapest
valuation of 21 emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘Boost Profitability’  “A rate cut would be good for banks as it would boost
their profitability,” Mansur Mammadov, who helps manage $100
million at Kazimir Partners in Moscow, said by phone yesterday.
“It would be also good for companies with a high level of debt
that tend to refinance on domestic market.”  Stocks on the Micex gauge trade at an average multiple of
5.3 times estimated earnings, compared with 13.9 for India’s S&P
BSE Sensex Index, 11.6 for  Brazil ’s Ibovespa and 9.5 for  China ’s
 Shanghai (SHCOMP)  Composite Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, rallied 1.2 percent to $27.57 in
New York, the highest level since May 10. The RTS Volatility
Index, which measures expected swings in the stock futures, fell
2.5 percent to 19.93.  OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest lender, added 0.9 percent to
109.71 rubles per share in Moscow today, heading for the highest
closing level since 2007. The stock gained 1.3 percent to $14.18
in London today and 2.2 percent to $14.07 in New York yesterday,
the biggest advance on the Russia Bloomberg-US gauge.  MTS, Ruble  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT) , the country’s biggest mobile
provider, known as MTS, rose 0.8 percent to 270.65 rubles per
share in Moscow, gaining for a second day. It rallied 2.1
percent to a seven-week high of $20.74 in New York.  Russia ’s Anti-Monopoly Service initiated a case against OOO
Rubicon Wireless Communication and Uzmobile on suspicion of
forming a cartel to force MTS from Uzbekistan, the service said
in a statement on its website yesterday.  The ruble strengthened 0.1 percent to 31.20 per dollar and
added less than 0.1 percent to 35.3141 against the dollar-euro
basket used by the central bank to manage swings that erode
exporter competitiveness. Ruble futures showed the currency
little changed at 31.90 per dollar.  “Monetary policy is not Russia’s biggest problem,” Lars Christensen and Vladimir Miklashevsky, analysts at Danske Bank
A/S, said in an e-mailed report today. “Russia’s biggest
problem is structural. The country is struggling with
significant overregulation, lack of competition and widespread
corruption.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in  London  at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  