-- Wal-Mart’s Massmart Says Sales Growth to Remain Weak For 2013
-- B y   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a
-- 2013-05-22T12:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/wal-mart-s-massmart-says-sales-growth-to-remain-weak-for-2013.html
Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , the South
African food and general goods retailer controlled by  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) , expects sales growth to remain subdued as the
economy slows and rising inflation weighs on consumers.  Massmart’s comparable or same-store sales increased by 5.6
percent in the first 21 weeks of fiscal year 2013, the company
said in a statement today. That compares with 7.3 percent growth
in the second half of 2012. The financial year-to-date sales
inflation was 3.1 percent.  “The decline in comparable sales growth has been evident
in all product categories and across all South African
geographies,” Chief Executive Officer Grant Pattison told
investors at the company’s annual general meeting in
Johannesburg. “We anticipate that comparable sales growth will
remain soft for the remainder of the financial year.”  Massmart shares fell as much as 2.2 percent to 199.56 rand
by 1:42 p.m. in Johannesburg, paring gains for the year to 4.5
percent.  South Africa ’s inflation rate remained unchanged at 5.9
percent in April as a decline in the value of the rand added to
the cost of imports. The South African Reserve Bank’s monetary
policy committee said in March it expects inflation to exceed 6
percent, the top of its target range, in the third quarter.
Rising inflation increases the price of goods for the consumer,
weighing on retail sales.  Massmart, which owns the cash and carry chain Makro and DIY
specialist Builders Warehouse, is expanding in  Africa  to offset
slower growth in its domestic market.  “Massmart will continue to expand its store network in
sub-Saharan Africa,” Pattison said. The company will open 27
stores before the end of 2013, including a Makro in Amanzimtoti,
Durban, and a Builders Warehouse store in Botswana and
 Mozambique . he said.  The company was able to buy seven Makro properties that
were previously lease-held after receiving a loan from parent
company Wal-Mart, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Gordon Bell  at 
 gbell16@bloomberg.net  