-- Weiner Asks for Second Chance in Declaring for NYC Mayor
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y
-- 2013-05-22T07:05:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/weiner-asks-for-second-chance-in-declaring-nyc-mayoral-candidacy.html
Anthony Weiner, who resigned from
Congress in 2011 after sending salacious images online to women,
announced he is running for mayor of  New York .  “Look, I made some big mistakes, and I know I let a lot of
people down,” Weiner, 48, said in a campaign ad  posted  on his
website. “But I’ve also learned some tough lessons. And I hope
I get a second chance to work for you.”  He enters the field polling second among Democratic
candidates for the Sept. 10 primary, with about $4.3 million in
funds from an abortive 2009 race for mayor. He said in a New
York Times magazine profile in April that he might re-enter
politics and run to succeed  Michael Bloomberg  as head of the
U.S.’s biggest city.  Weiner trails City Council Speaker Christine Quinn 26
percent to 15 percent, according to an April Marist College poll
of Democratic voters. To qualify for the ballot, candidates must
collect 3,750 voter signatures on petitions between June 4 and
July 11, according to the city Board of Elections.  Other Democratic candidates in the poll included
Comptroller  John Liu , with 12 percent; Public Advocate Bill de Blasio and former Comptroller  William Thompson , tied at 11
percent; and former City Councilman Sal Albanese, with 2
percent. Undecided voters made up 22 percent of respondents.
Democrats outnumber Republicans by 6-to-1 in  New York City .  Weiner spent 12 years in the  House of Representatives 
before resigning in June 2011 after he admitted to sending
inappropriate messages and photos of himself to six women on the
Internet. He had previously denied sending a photograph of
himself from the waist down in his underwear to a Seattle woman
via Twitter, saying his account was hacked.  Weiner hired Daniel Kedem, a former campaign adviser
affiliated with the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee,
Politico reported last week, citing two unidentified people
familiar with the situation.  Bloomberg, a political independent who is the founder of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, won’t run again due to term
limits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  