-- West Ham Agrees on $24.2 Million Fee for Carroll: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-05-22T09:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/west-ham-agrees-on-24-2-million-fee-for-carroll-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Carroll Fee  West Ham United agreed on a fee of as much as 16 million
pounds ($24.2 million) with Liverpool to sign loan striker Andy Carroll on a permanent basis, the  Sun reported .  West Ham’s offer is an initial 12 million pounds with as
much as 4 million pounds in additional performance-related
payments, the newspaper added. Liverpool paid Newcastle 35
million pounds for Carroll after selling  Fernando Torres  to
Chelsea for a 50 million pounds, a record between British teams.  Luiz May Leave  Real Madrid and Barcelona are said to be monitoring Chelsea
defender  David Luiz , who may not be wanted by  Jose Mourinho  if
he returns to the Blues as manager, the  Daily Mail reported .  Luiz, 26, cost Chelsea 21 million pounds and the London
club will seek to sell him at a profit should the Spanish clubs’
interest turn into bids, the newspaper added.  Neville’s Options  Former Everton captain Phil Neville is in the frame for a
senior coaching role at Stoke City after manager  Tony Pulis  left
the club yesterday, the  Independent reported .  Neville, 36, told Everton chairman Bill Kenwright he’s keen
to take over from  David Moyes , who was hired as Alex Ferguson’s
replacement at Manchester United, as the Toffees’ manager, the
 Guardian reported .  Martinez Move  Wigan Athletic manager  Roberto Martinez  has 48 hours to
decide if he wants to replace Pulis, the  Daily Express reported .  Wigan chairman Dave Whelan said he has meetings scheduled
with Martinez today and tomorrow and expects the Spaniard to
reveal his long-term plans, the newspaper said. Roberto Di Matteo, Gus Poyet and  Mark Hughes  are among the other candidates
for the Stoke job, the Express added.  Teenage Target  Moyes, who officially starts at United on July 1, will
fight Chelsea for the signature of Southampton left-back Luke
Shaw, the  Daily Mail reported .  Shaw, 17, was scouted by Moyes last season while he was
manager at Everton, the newspaper added. Moyes is likely to try
and acquire players from his former club with midfielder Ross
Barkley, 19, high on his wanted list, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  