-- Corn Futures Rise on U.S. Export Demand, Ethanol Data
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-05-22T20:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/wheat-advances-as-hot-weather-threatens-deteriorating-u-s-crops.html
Corn futures jumped the most in a
week as demand rose for exports from the U.S., the world’s
biggest shipper, and inventory of grain-based ethanol dropped to
the lowest since November 2010. Wheat and soybeans gained.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  reported sales of a
combined 540,000 metric tons of corn to  China  and unknown
destinations for delivery in the 12 months that start Sept. 1.
Ethanol output rose to the highest in 11 months, and  stockpiles 
dropped for the fourth straight week, government data showed.  Supplies of ethanol, a gasoline additive, “are now as low
as they usually are coming out of the end of the driving season
in late August,”  Jerry Gidel , the chief grain-market analyst at
Rice Dairy LLC in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.
“There is little reason to expect production to slow as U.S.
driving demand will increase demand the next several months.”  Corn futures for July delivery rose 2.9 percent to settle
at $6.585 a bushel at 1:15 p.m.  on the Chicago Board of Trade,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since May 13.  U.S. supplies of the grain left from last year are forecast
to fall to the lowest since 1996 before the 2013 harvest, the
government said on May 10.  Wheat futures for July delivery advanced 1.2 percent to
$6.885 a bushel, the biggest gain since May 9, partly on signs
of increasing use in livestock feedstock.  “Wheat is a cheaper feed alternative to corn on a per-pound and protein basis,”  Dave Marshall , a farm-marketing
adviser at Toay Commodity Futures Group LLC in Nashville,
 Illinois , said in a telephone interview. “Wheat supplies are
not positioned where mills and exporters need them, and because
of the shortage of corn, there is increased feed demand.”  Soybean futures for July delivery climbed 1.1 percent to
$14.9425 a bushel. The price rose for the fifth straight
session, the longest rally in more than a year.  Wet weather in the next two weeks will delay sowing in the
Midwest, Gidel said. Planting was 24 percent completed on May
19, down from 42 percent on average in the previous five years,
the USDA said on May 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  