-- Wheat Exports From India to Plummet as Farmers Hoard Harvest
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2013-05-22T11:13:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/wheat-exports-from-india-may-plummet-as-farmers-hoard-harvest.html
Wheat exports from  India , the world’s
second-biggest producer, are set to plunge as farmers hoard the
crop and a rally in domestic prices turns buyers away to cheaper
supplies from Russia and Ukraine. Futures climbed.  Shipments may fall to about 1.5 million metric tons in the
year that began on April 1 unless local prices drop by 1,000
rupees ($18) a ton or the Indian currency declines against the
U.S. dollar by 10 percent, said Rajnikant Rai, chief operating
officer of agriculture business division at  ITC Ltd. (ITC)  That
compares with 8 million tons forecast by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. Exports were 5.3 million tons in 2012-2013,
according to the Indian government.  Futures in Mumbai have rallied 15 percent since the start
of April, even as prices in  Chicago  were little changed in the
same period, as farmers hold back supplies betting prices may
further surge. Falling Indian supplies may increase demand for
the grain from the U.S, the biggest shipper, and the Black Sea
region. The world will  harvest  a record 701.1 million tons next
year, the USDA said in a report on May 10.  “I will hold the crop till I get a better price,” said
Subhash Chand Sharma, a 45-year-old farmer from Papri village in
the northern Indian state of Uttar Pradesh, who harvested 18
tons of wheat from the 10 acres he owns. “I can hold on to the
crops for next two months. I am hopeful of an increase in prices
later as happened last year.”  Private Traders  Cash  prices  may rally to 1,500 rupees per 100 kilograms in
the next two months compared with 1,350 rupees paid by the
government agencies now, he said. Open market prices jumped 30
percent in two months after the harvest last year as exports
picked up and private traders stepped up buying, he said.  Government purchases from farmers have fallen 21 percent to
24.56 million tons as of May 20 and total purchases may be about
33 million tons, 25 percent less than the target of 44 million
tons, according to the food ministry. The government sets crop
prices to assure farmers’ incomes, while selling subsidized
grains and cooking oils to the poor. It buys about 30 percent of
rice and wheat output from farmers at the set prices.  Wheat has climbed on the National Commodity & Derivatives
Exchange Ltd. in Mumbai since the start of April, making
supplies from India about $50 a ton more expensive than grains
from the Black Sea region. The contract for June delivery
advanced 1.2 percent to 1,583 rupees per 100 kilograms today,
poised for the highest close this year. Wheat for July delivery
climbed 0.7 percent to $6.8525 a bushel in Chicago at 1:51 p.m.
Mumbai time.  Market Hangover  “India may not be able to export wheat at current
prices,” said  Abdolreza Abbassian , an economist at the United
Nations’ Food & Agriculture Organization. “It will be difficult
for them to dispose this extra wheat into the market. This could
eventually create a hangover in the domestic market and it’s a
problem for them.”  Milling wheat from Black Sea region is available at $260 a
ton free-on-board, while feed variety is quoted at $250 after
July, while Indian supplies were about $310 a ton on a free-on-board basis, Tejinder Narang, an adviser with  Emmsons
International Ltd. (EMSI) , a New Delhi-based trader.  “Exports may be 2 million tons this fiscal year unless we
cut our prices by $50 a ton after July to compete with wheat
from Black Sea region,” Narang said. “Carrying cost of wheat
will increase while quality will deteriorate.”  India’s plan to export 5 million tons from state stockpiles
through private traders have failed to attract buyers because of
the minimum price of 14,840 rupees a ton, according to the Food
Ministry. The government is not in a hurry to cut the export
price, Food Minister K.V. Thomas said May 17.  State stockpiles expanded 12 percent to 42.7 million tons
at the start of this month from a year earlier, according to the
Food Corp. of India. Production may drop to 92.3 million tons in
the year ending June 30 from 94.9 million tons a year earlier,
according to the Agriculture Ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  