-- Why Obama’s Scandals Won’t Lead to Reform
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2013-05-22T21:53:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/why-obama-s-scandals-won-t-lead-to-reform.html
Put aside the politics, and the
question of who-knew-what-when. There are two policy problems
highlighted by the controversies at the  Internal Revenue Service 
and the  Department of Justice . The first is the growth of
501(c)(4) groups into vehicles for anonymous and unlimited
political spending. The second is the  Barack Obama 
administration’s overzealous prosecution of leaks.  Unfortunately, for those who would like to see these policy
problems resolved, the wrong party is angry about them and the
wrong party is complacent.  Republicans support unlimited, anonymous political spending
by 501(c)(4) groups. Likewise, they support vigorous prosecution
of national security leaks. But trumping such policy beliefs,
for the moment, is an overriding political imperative:
Republicans want a scandal to take down the White House, or at
least to damage Obama’s standing.  Democrats, by contrast, loathe the growth of partisan
501(c)(4) groups. They’re also more skeptical of claims that
national security concerns override the news media’s right to
report. But rather than use the  IRS scandal  as an opportunity to
reform the rules for political groups, or to propose legislation
to protect journalists from the  Justice Department ’s overreach,
there’s a real chance Democrats might rally around the White
House and try to move past these scandals as quickly as
possible.  As a result, we have a party eager to exploit scandal and
one that has plausible (if dormant) solutions to the underlying
problems. They’re just not the same party.  Bad Decisions  Take 501(c)(4)s. There’s little evidence that the IRS
agents in Cincinnati saw themselves as foot soldiers in a
political war. Rather, it looks like the war -- in the form of
groups seeking tax-exempt status for their political activities
under Section 501(c)(4) of the  tax code  -- came to their sleepy
backwater. Overwhelmed, the staff began making bad decisions and
applying ill-conceived filters that politicized the process.  The  Supreme Court ’s Citizens United decision enabled
501(c)(4) groups to be commandeered for unlimited political
spending. Republican consultant  Karl Rove , unions and other big
players tested IRS rules restricting how politically engaged
501(c)(4) groups could be. They found they were able to use the
groups almost exclusively for political purposes without
inviting IRS scrutiny. Soon, the IRS’s Determinations Unit in
Cincinnati, which processes 501(c)(4) applications, was
inundated.  The emergence of so many 501(c)(4)s devoted to politics led
to news reports suggesting -- correctly -- that the IRS wasn’t
enforcing the rules restricting the groups’ political
engagement. According to the IRS inspector general’s report, the
news stories prompted agents in the Determinations Unit to begin
filtering 501(c)(4) applications for political agendas. Those
filters tilted -- unfairly but not necessarily malevolently --
against conservative groups using politically tinged words such
as “ Tea Party .”  For that, heads should roll at the Cincinnati office. The
consequences for politicizing the agency’s reviews should be
severe, even if the politicization turns out to have been
inadvertent. Incompetence that leads to a national scandal and a
severe drop of trust in your institution should be a firing
offense.  The IRS is no longer targeting groups, but the underlying
problem remains; as Senator  Max Baucus  of  Montana  put it, “a
Mack truck is being driven through the 501(c)(4) loophole.”
Political groups are still streaming into a tax-exempt
designation that was never intended for them, leaving the IRS to
make subjective judgments about which groups are too political
to warrant that status and which are not.  Disclose Act  Although the dangers are obvious, the odds of reform are
slim. Republicans like the status quo. In 2012, Democratic
Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse  of  Rhode Island  sponsored the
 Disclose Act , which would have required such groups to disclose
donors who had contributed more than $10,000 and to list their
top five donors in their campaign ads. By eliminating anonymity
for donors, the legislation would have made these groups less
attractive vehicles for partisan politics. The Disclose Act was
killed by Republican filibuster.  Republicans want to prosecute the IRS scandal, but they’ve
offered no remedies for the  murky campaign finance rules  at the
root of it. Why? Because they’re not actually upset about the
underlying problem; those rules helped Republicans raise
hundreds of millions in 2012.  A similar sticking point emerges in the Justice
Department’s aggressive pursuit of national security leaks.
Before the outcry over the Obama administration’s leak
investigations, Republicans complained that the administration
wasn’t pursuing national security leaks vigorously enough. Last
June, Republican Senators  John McCain ,  Saxby Chambliss ,  John Cornyn  and  Roger Wicker   demanded  the appointment of a special
prosecutor to investigate leaks because, they said, Attorney
General Eric Holder wasn’t active enough. “Any other
administration, in my memory, Democrat or Republican, would have
been absolutely apoplectic looking for the culprits, trying to
find out who were the people that actually committed these
criminal leaks,” Wicker said.  Republicans have been consistent on this point. During the
George W.  Bush administration , congressional Democrats (and a
handful of Republicans) proposed shield laws to protect
journalists from leak investigations. The Bush administration
fought back. Attorney General Michael Mukasey and Director of
National Intelligence Michael McConnell wrote that such
proposals were “both unwise and unnecessary.” The Bush Justice
Department even produced a website (now defunct) to campaign
against a shield. (A shield law died in the Senate, another
victim of a Republican-led filibuster.)  Shield Law  The Obama White House has supported a limited shield law
that includes a large national security exemption. Such a
measure probably would have done little in this case. Perhaps
the law could be strengthened if Republicans wanted to make an
issue of it, but there’s little chance of that. And the partisan
incentives here are unlikely to make congressional Democrats
double down. Already, a Pew Research Center  poll  found that
self-identified Democrats who are following the issue think the
Obama administration acted appropriately. It is difficult to
believe they would hold that position if a Republican was
president.  None of this detracts from the gravity of the charge that
the Obama administration is overzealous in pursuing leaks. It
simply makes it less likely that the party seeking to profit
politically from that situation will also offer a corrective
policy.  Republicans are right to be outraged by scandals, but it
would help if they were also outraged by the policy failures
that produced the scandals. Democrats, meanwhile, have
previously proposed policies that might have curtailed the IRS
fiasco and the Justice Department’s overreach. But they will be
tempted to bury such proposals in their haste to get beyond a
patch of bad news. In  Washington , scandals are often the
strongest impetus for reform. Not this time.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 