-- Why Second-Term Scandals Are Almost Inevitable
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-05-22T22:11:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/why-second-term-scandals-are-almost-inevitable.html
In the last month, there has been a
lot of talk about whether American presidents face a second-term
curse. It’s  not clear  that such a thing exists, but any second-term president is likely to have to deal with some real or
apparent scandals. The reason isn’t arrogance, distraction or
hubris. It’s a matter of arithmetic.  Whether a president will face an alleged or actual  scandal 
depends on two variables. The first is whether something
inappropriate, or at least apparently so, has happened either at
his direction or on his watch. The second is whether someone has
both the incentive and the ability to bring the allegedly
inappropriate action to the attention of the public.  With respect to the first variable, a great deal depends on
how long a president has been in office. As time passes, the
 incumbent  becomes more likely than his predecessor to be held
responsible for bad outcomes. Even more important, the sheer
number of executive-branch decisions increases substantially
over time. With every month, it becomes more likely that at
least one of those decisions will turn out to be incorrect,
inappropriate or worse.  If the president encourages or tolerates misconduct, the
likelihood of scandals is high by definition. It will only grow
over time.  Wrong Decisions  The same is true even if the president is entirely
honorable. Because the executive branch is exceptionally large,
no president, however vigilant, can possibly control everything
that happens there. Many thousands of federal officials, working
in dozens of different agencies, are in a position to make
important decisions, some of which may turn out to be  wrong ,
inappropriate or worse.  True, an honorable and diligent president can significantly
reduce the risk of misconduct. But after a period of four years,
a bad or troubling decision is almost inevitable, given the
sheer number of choices that will have been made. The real
question is whether a troubling decision will turn into an
apparent or actual scandal.  Which brings us to the second variable. Having been
defeated twice, an  opposing party  will be angry and frustrated.
It will seek to undermine the incumbent president however it
can. Investigating real or apparent scandals can be an excellent
way to weaken him. A losing party may see an alleged scandal, or
an apparently reasonable claim for an investigation, as a
political winner.  If the House and the Senate are both in the hands of the
president’s party, the threshold for a serious investigation is
obviously far higher than if either is controlled by the
 opposing party .  The media matters, as well. A honeymoon period is far more
likely in the president’s first term than in the second. And if
the media are well-disposed toward him, they are far less likely
to investigate and publicize apparently troubling decisions than
if journalists are skeptical about him. At the same time, the
media are less likely to focus on scandals if they are
preoccupied with other matters (such as an economic crisis, a
war or other high-profile issues).  In an impressive  study , Brendan Nyhan of  Dartmouth College 
demonstrates the importance of the opposing party and of media
incentives. Focusing on the period from 1977 to 2008, Nyhan
finds an unmistakable increase in scandals in the second term.  Strikingly, he also shows that when the president is held
in especially low regard by the opposing party, media attention
is far more likely to be given to scandals, real or apparent.  Bigger News  Nyhan demonstrates how significant events (such as the
Sept. 11 attacks and the  Iraq War  in 2003) claim the nation’s
attention and tend to deprive real or apparent scandals of
oxygen. Some big news events may also draw the media and the
public to the president’s side, further reducing the incentive
to focus on other matters.  None of this should suggest that we haven’t seen genuine
scandals in recent history. But real ones can be ignored, and
made-up ones can get a lot of public attention. While in office,
President  John F. Kennedy  had an unusually colorful private
life. It never turned into a problem because no one was willing
to discuss it publicly (even though Kennedy had plenty of
enemies). Some alleged or actual executive branch offenses
wouldn’t have gotten much attention in the absence of intense
hostility, on the part of some, to the incumbent president.  Political predictions are hazardous, but here’s a safe one:
However wonderful his character, and whatever his political
party, any second-term president will have to deal with a real
or apparent scandal (or two, or three). The reason? Arithmetic.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley university professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View  columnist . He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  