-- Twitter Adopts Two-Step Authentication After Account Hack
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/twitter-boosts-security-with-two-step-authentication-after-hacks.html
Twitter Inc. is adding a new security
tool to its website, making it harder for outsiders to gain
access to accounts, a month after a false posting triggered a
stock-market decline.  The two-step authentication measure, available as an option
starting today, requires users to input a code sent via text
message to a mobile phone in order to log in, Jim O’Leary, a
member of Twitter’s product security team, said in a blog  post 
yesterday.  Twitter, which has more than 200 million users, follows
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  in introducing two-step authentication, as people put more information online. The
hack of an Associated Press account last month resulted in
tweets about explosions at the White House that temporarily 
wiped out $136 billion in value from the Standard & Poor’s 500 
Index. That increased pressure on Twitter Chief Executive 
Officer  Dick Costolo  to install safeguards for users as he 
prepares for an eventual initial public offering.  “Social sites are a big target of these hackers,” said
Barmak Meftah, chief executive officer of  San Mateo , California-based computer-security company AlienVault Inc. “All the
efforts around fortifying and securing these sites is obviously
huge. It’s great that Twitter is taking steps toward stopping
this.”  Twitter’s new authentication feature has been in
development since at least last month, according to a person
familiar with the matter. The San Francisco-based company said
it plans to introduce more security measures to prevent hacking.  AP Attack  “When you sign in to twitter.com, there’s a second check
to make sure it’s really you,” O’Leary wrote. “Much of the
server-side engineering work required to ship this feature has
cleared the way for us to deliver more account security
enhancements in the future.”  In the AP hacking attack, the fabricated tweet was sent
after unauthorized users gained access to the account, the  news
agency  said. Common tactics that hackers use include spear
phishing attacks, in which someone is duped into installing
malicious code onto their computer or mobile device, and malware
hidden on websites.  The AP restored its Twitter account after a security
review. The false information from the AP account, which also
said President  Barack Obama  had been injured, came after
repeated attempts by hackers to gain access to AP reporters’
passwords, the news agency said.  Corporate Information  In February, the Twitter account for Jeep was taken over.
About that same time, the account for Burger King also was
compromised. While those breaches were quickly remedied without
any significant loss of sales, businesses can come under greater
scrutiny after financial regulators approved the use of social
media to release market-sensitive information.  That followed an investigation into  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Chief
Executive Officer  Reed Hastings . He had posted monthly
viewership results on his Facebook page, rather than in a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission filing or news release.  Tesla
Motors Inc. (TSLA)  Chief Executive Officer  Elon Musk  also fueled the
debate in March, when he sent Twitter postings that moved the
electric-car company’s shares.  The SEC changed its guidance for companies distributing
information April 2, allowing them to use social-media sites
such as Twitter and Facebook to distribute announcements that
can move markets.  “For a long period of time, banks were the main target,
where hackers would embed a phishing link inside an e-mail,”
Meftah said. “Social sites are the new attack surface for these
guys. If you can phish against Twitter, phish against Facebook -
- the number of consumers that are going to be affected by it is
massive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  