-- Women Board Members Lead to Better Returns, SEC’s Aguilar Says
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-05-22T18:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/women-board-members-lead-to-better-returns-sec-s-aguilar-says.html
Corporate America should recruit more
women to serve as directors and improve the disclosure of gender
and ethnic diversity on their boards, Securities and Exchange
Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar said today.  Investors and companies are better served by businesses
that have women on the board, Aguilar said in comments to the
Women’s Executive Circle of New York. Public companies with
women directors produce superior returns, manage risk better,
and attract and retain more talent than companies that don’t
have women on their boards, Aguilar said, citing academic and
industry research.  “Diversity in the boardroom is a business necessity that
companies need to take seriously,” Aguilar said. “I look
forward to the day when corporate boards reflect the diversity
of our nation.”  Women fill 17 percent of the board seats at companies that
make up the  Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index , up from 13
percent in 2002, Aguilar said. Women comprise 47 percent of the
total U.S. workforce, Aguilar said.  Companies have improved disclosure of board diversity since
a 2009 SEC rule required public companies to state whether
diversity is considered when identifying director nominees,
Aguilar said.  The Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,  Wells Fargo & Company (WFC) , and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  provided all the required information in their
latest proxy statements, but some other companies haven’t
provided enough information because the rule didn’t define
diversity, Aguilar said.  “Numerous investors have made it clear that they are
particularly interested in board policies regarding gender,
racial, and ethnic diversity,” Aguilar said. “It is important
that investors receive the specificity of disclosure that they
seek.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  