-- Won Drops Most in Week as BOK Flags Fed Risk; Bonds Fall
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-05-22T06:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/won-snaps-two-day-gain-as-bok-flags-fed-policy-risk-bonds-rise.html
The won fell the most in a week and
 government bonds  declined after the central bank governor
flagged the possibility of the U.S. scaling back its debt-buying
program that has fueled demand for emerging-market assets.  The world will face “interest-rate risks” due to rising
bond yields if the U.S. exits from quantitative easing, Bank of
Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said in a speech today in Seoul.
 New York  Federal Reserve President William C. Dudley said
yesterday he hasn’t decided whether the next move should be to
enlarge or shrink its $85 billion of monthly bond buying, while
St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said the purchases should
continue because economic growth is slower than expected. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is due to address Congress today.  The won fell 0.3 percent to 1,113.78 per dollar in Seoul,
the biggest drop since May 15, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 16 basis
points, or 0.16 percentage point, to 8.51 percent.  “Governor Kim showed a concern about an early exit of the
Fed’s QE policies, and investors are nervous about that
scenario,” said Choi Sung Hyun, a currency trader at  Woori Bank 
in Seoul. “If Bernanke hints at the possibility of an early
exit, the won may easily weaken below 1,120 won per dollar.”  The  Bank of Korea  lowered the benchmark seven-day
repurchase rate to 2.5 percent from 2.75 percent on May 9. The
decision by Governor Kim and his board to cut borrowing costs
for the first time since October came as a weak yen dims the
outlook for the country’s exports and record household debt
weighs on consumption.  Debt Falls  South Korea’s short-term external debt fell to $122.2
billion at the end of the first quarter from $126.8 billion a
year ago, according to a central bank statement today. Foreign
ownership of Korean Treasuries and monetary-stabilization bonds
was a record 17.8 percent of the total outstanding in April,
Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist at  Nomura Research
Institute Ltd. (4307) , wrote in a research note today.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent government bonds
due March 2018 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 2.7 percent, according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  