-- Brent at Three-Week Low as China Manufacturing Shrinks
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-05-23T12:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/wti-crude-drops-a-third-day-after-biggest-slide-in-three-weeks.html
Brent crude dropped for a third day,
to its lowest intraday price in three weeks as manufacturing in
 China  shrank and U.S. gasoline stockpiles increased.  Futures slid as much as 1.5 percent in London to the lowest
since May 2. A preliminary reading of China’s Purchasing
Managers Index dropped to 49.6 for May, the least since October
and missing estimates. Gasoline inventories rose  3 million
barrels  last week, the Energy Information Administration
reported yesterday. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
signaled the central bank may reduce monthly bond purchases.  “The China statistics paint a slightly weaker picture of
the demand side,” said Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodity
analyst at SEB AB in Oslo. “We are in the seasonally softest
part of the year for demand.”  Brent for July settlement declined as much as $1.54 to
$101.06 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange, and traded
for $101.69 as of 12:49 p.m.  London  time. The European benchmark
grade was at a premium of $8.53 to West Texas Intermediate
futures. The spread widened for the first time in five days to
$8.32 yesterday.  China Factories  WTI for July delivery fell as much as $1.61 to $92.67 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange, the lowest intraday price since May 15, and was at
$93.17 as of 11:10 a.m. London time. The volume of all contracts
traded was 28 percent above the 100-day average.  The China manufacturing index for May released today by
HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed the first
contraction in seven months. It’s below a median estimate of
50.4 in a Bloomberg survey of economists, which was also the
final measure for April. A reading above 50 indicates expansion.  China is the world’s second-largest oil consumer,
accounting for 11 percent of global demand in 2011, according to
 BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy. The U.S. is the
biggest user at 21 percent.  “China’s PMI data coming in below forecast is adding a
strong downdraft across most commodity markets today,” said
Mark Keenan, a director of commodities research and strategy at
Societe Generale SA in  Singapore . “The comments from the Fed,
hinting at the scaling back of quantitative easing if the
economy improves further, have driven the dollar higher, which
is also contributing to the general weakness. These factors are
driving oil prices lower today.”  Bernanke said yesterday the Fed may taper its $85 billion a
month of purchases if confident of a sustained improvement in
the U.S. economy. The Dollar Index was little changed after
almost reaching a three-year high today.  Crude Supplies  While U.S. commercial crude inventories have shrunk in the
past two weeks, stockpiles remained near the highest level since
at least 1931, according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s
statistical arm.  Supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for WTI
contracts and the biggest U.S. storage hub, rose 449,000 barrels
to 50.2 million last week, the report showed. That’s the highest
in a month.  “Stockpiles are very high and have been that way for a
very long time,” said David Lennox, an analyst at Fat Prophets
in Sydney. “We’re coming up to the driving season, and one
would expect to see significant drawdowns going forward.”  The U.S. Memorial Day holiday on May 27 marks the start of
the country’s peak summer gasoline demand period.  Gasoline production  climbed 285,000 barrels a day to 9.21
million last week, the fastest rate this year, the EIA data
show. Distillate-fuel inventories, including heating oil and
diesel, dropped 1.1 million barrels. They were projected to
increase 1 million barrels, according to the median estimate of
11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  WTI’s decline may slow as futures approach technical
support along the middle Bollinger Band on the 30-day chart,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This indicator, at
around $93.07 a barrel today, is near where prices rebounded
last week. Buy orders tend to be clustered close to chart-support levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  