-- Yankee Candle Said to Abandon Sale After Bids Come Up Short
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2013-05-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/yankee-candle-said-to-abandon-sale-after-bids-come-up-short.html
Madison Dearborn Partners LLC has
dropped its attempt to sell Yankee Candle Co. because bidders
weren’t willing to pay the price it was seeking, people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Madison Dearborn, the Chicago-based private-equity firm
that acquired the scented-candle maker in 2007 for $1.6 billion
including debt, was asking for as much as $2 billion, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the process was
private. The company, which dubs itself the best-selling  candle
brand  in the U.S., will now explore other options, one of the
people said.  Buyout firms weren’t willing to pay $2 billion because they
didn’t see enough growth in the business, the people said. While
the company’s revenue has increased, net income hasn’t kept
pace. Sales rose 5.4 percent to $163.4 million in the first
quarter, according to a company statement this month. The net
loss narrowed to $1.7 million in the three months ended March 30
from $3.5 million in the year-earlier period.  Chuck Dohrenwend, a spokesman for Madison Dearborn at
Abernathy MacGregor Group, declined to comment.  Yankee Candle, based in South Deerfield,  Massachusetts ,
sells its products through a base of more than 500 company-owned
retail stores, according to its website, with a North American
customer network of about 19,100 specialty retailers.  Madison Dearborn hired Bank of America Corp. and Barclays
Plc in March to try to sell Yankee Candle, said the people
familiar with the situation. The buyout firm’s  holdings  include
 Boise Cascade Co. (BCC) , a maker and distributor of wood products that
went public in February, and Topps Co., a creator and marketer
of sports cards.  Since it was founded in 1992, Madison Dearborn has raised
six funds with aggregate capital of more than $18 billion,
according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  