-- Myanmar Economy May Grow 6.75% This Year on Gas Output, IMF Says
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2013-05-22T06:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-05-22/myanmar-economy-may-grow-6-75-this-year-on-gas-output-imf-says.html
Myanmar’s economy may grow 6.75
percent this fiscal year, led by natural gas sales and
investment as the country moves to modernize its financial
system, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Gross domestic product in the year ended March 31 expanded
an estimated 6.5 percent, the IMF said in a  statement  today.
Inflation in the fiscal year that began April 1 should be about
5.5 percent, while international reserves will rise as foreign
investment offsets a wider current-account deficit, it said.  “The authorities’ ambitious reform program is bearing
fruit, with macroeconomic stability and high investor
interest,” Matt Davies, the IMF’s mission chief for Myanmar,
said in a statement after a 15-day visit to the country ending
today. “Budget policy has managed to balance the twin goals of
addressing Myanmar’s large development needs and maintaining
macroeconomic stability.”  President  Thein Sein ’s moves to allow more political
freedom and open Myanmar’s economy following about five decades
of military rule have attracted companies including Ford Motor
Co. and Coca-Cola Co. He sought the end of U.S. sanctions in a
meeting this week with President  Barack Obama  in  Washington , a
month after the European Union lifted punitive measures.  Myanmar has made “great strides” in liberalizing its
 exchange rate , which is now closely aligned to informal markets,
Davies said. The kyat has depreciated 13 percent since the
managed float in April 2012 to 928 per dollar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Modernizing Rapidly’  Macroeconomic management remains a key risk to Myanmar’s
economic outlook, Davies said, adding that a new law would give
the  Central Bank  of Myanmar autonomy to handle inflation
pressure from wage increases, money growth and real estate
prices. He called for more supervision of a banking sector that
is “growing and modernizing rapidly.”  Myanmar should seek to attract investment by improving
infrastructure and streamlining bureaucracy rather than offering
tax incentives, Davies said. The  budget deficit  this fiscal year
is expected at about 5 percent of GDP with more increases in
health and education spending, he said.  “Sustained increases in tax revenues are crucial to boost
expenditure and reduce dependence on natural resources,” Davies
said. “This requires broadening the tax base and improving
compliance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  