-- 
‘Angry Birds’ May Take On ‘StarCraft’ in Korea

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-07-06T23:16:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/-angry-birds-may-take-on-starcraft-in-korea-after-rule-change.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  customers in South Korea
who couldn’t download Rovio Mobile Ltd.’s best-selling “ Angry
Birds ” on their iPhones will soon be able to find out why
flinging vindictive fowl at green hogs can be addictive.  Korea scrapped rules yesterday requiring developers to have
mobile games rated by the government, said Yi Ki Jeong, a manager
at the  Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism  in Seoul. The rule
clashed with internal policies at Apple and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  enough
for the companies to shut their mobile-game stores in the
country, keeping Rovio and other developers from offering their
products in Korea, Yi said.  The lifting of the law clears the way for software
developers for the iPhone and handsets that run on Google’s
Android system to offer games in a nation where cable TV
channels broadcast live matches of people playing  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ’s “StarCraft.” Sales of mobile games will
probably exceed 355 billion won ($333 million) next year,
according to the government.  “A new chapter is opening in the Korean smartphone-game
market,” said Jang Woo Jin, an analyst at NH Investment &
Securities Co. “With the rule out of the way, we can now expect
Apple and Google to throw open games in Korea.”  Deprived IPhone Users  Korean mobile-game developers such as  Gamevil Inc. (063080)  and
 Com2uS Corp.  may also benefit by offering games on Google’s
Android Market and Apple’s  App Store , said Jang. Gamevil’s
third-quarter sales in Korea may rise as much as 17 percent if
the companies reopen their game sections on their local stores,
he said. The shares have risen 27 percent this year.  The removal of the regulatory hurdle is a “hugely
favorable factor” for Gamevil, Kim Young Sik, a spokesman for
the company, said. “Millions of iPhone users in  Korea  haven’t
been able to use games until now.”  Gamevil’s “ Air Penguin ” was the fourth-most downloaded
paid application for the iPhone in the U.S. in April, according
to Utrecht, Netherlands-based researcher  Distimo .  Com2uS, a Seoul-based maker of iPhone games such as “Third
Blade” and “Homerun Battle 3D,” is aiming to triple
smartphone-game sales to 25.9 billion won this year, said Choi
Baek Yong, the company’s chief financial officer.  “We’re looking at this very positively,” Choi said.  Robin Moroney, a Tokyo-based spokesman for Google, and
Steve Park, a Seoul-based spokesman for Apple, declined to
comment on the rule change and introduction of new games. Ville
Heijari, vice president of franchise development at Rovio,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Gaming Country  South Korea, home to mobile-phone makers Samsung
Electronics Co. and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , had 14 million
smartphone users as of the end of June, according to estimates
from Park Jong Soo, an analyst at  Hanwha Securities Co. (003530)  in
Seoul. Apple controlled about 29 percent of the market for
smartphones at the end of last month, according to Park.  Even with the game categories closed, application downloads
in May in South Korea exceeded those of countries with bigger
populations such as Germany and  France , according to researcher
Distimo.  Korea isn’t scrapping regulations altogether.  For example, the National Assembly in April  passed a bill 
to prohibit adolescents under 16 years old from playing online
games past midnight to curb addiction.  “Previously, the government censored movies for social and
ethical reasons to protect Korean values,” Yi said. “That
tradition is still alive in games.”  Internet Cafes  Games for the iPhone stand to benefit more from the change
of rules than  Android applications , as some titles running on
the Google software are already available on application stores
run by local mobile-phone carriers, Com2uS’s Choi said.  Angry Birds can be downloaded by Android users in the
country using carriers such as SK Telecom Co.  The popularity of online games in  South Korea , the world’s
second-biggest market for games that allow players from remote
places to play together, may bode well for mobile games.  Korea Creative Content Agency forecasts online game sales
in the country, which has Internet cafes sprawling across the
nation and professional leagues for online-game players, will
almost double to 7.1 trillion won by 2012 from 2009.  “Mobile games as an industry have a lot of growth
potential,” the culture ministry’s Yi said. “We are now
letting Google and Apple open their markets here. We hope
Koreans will be able to use their global markets, not having to
take an alternative route and download from overseas markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  