-- 
Adopted Children More Prone to Health Conditions, U.S. Annual Study Shows

-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 
2011-07-06T23:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/adopted-children-more-prone-to-health-conditions-u-s-annual-study-shows.html
Adopted children are three times more
likely to develop physical and mental health disabilities than
kids raised by their biological parents, U.S. researchers found.  Nearly 45 percent of kids ages 12 to 17 who were adopted
from foster care homes developed moderate to severe health
problems, compared with 14 percent of all youth in the age
group, according a report released today by the Federal
Interagency Forum on Child and Family Statistics. The most
common conditions were learning disabilities such as attention
deficit hyperactivity disorder.  The U.S. spends an annual $8 billion on foster care and
adoption assistance, the program that helps states care for
homeless children,  according  to a 2006 report by the U.S.
Government Accountability Office. Neglect and abuse is the most
common reason for entry into a foster home, according to Laura
Radel, one of the study’s researchers. Almost three percent of
children are adopted, or 1.8 million kids.  “This is the first time we have national representative
data in this level of detail on adopted children,” said Radel,
a senior social analyst at the  Department of Health  and Human
Services. “It confirmed what we know that children who are
adopted will frequently have health and developmental issues.”  The annual number of adoptions has doubled to 50,000 a year
since the 1997 Adoption and Safe Families act, a law providing
adoption incentive payments and expanded health coverage, Radel
said.  Psychological Conditions  Attention deficit disorder affected 20 percent of foster
care adoptees, and 16 percent suffered from behavior and conduct
problems. Only four percent of all children, adopted and those
living with biological parents, suffered from attention deficit
disorder, according to the report. Seven percent of children
adopted from foster homes had bone and muscle problems, while
one percent of all children suffered the same conditions.  “The fact that these kids may have serious problems, to a
greater extent than kids born into a family, is something that
we need to pay attention to,” said  Edward Sondik , director of
the National Center for Health Statistics. “By no means should
that be a barrier for adoption. With the new data, we hope to
get feedback from researchers and lawmakers that can help
ameliorate this problem.”  The annual report was prepared by 22 U.S. agencies that
collect and analyze data related to children and families. The
study uses the most recently available federal statistics to
measure child well-being in a variety of areas such as health
care, education, safety and behavior.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in New York at 
 orenick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 