-- 
Afghan War Troop Cut Includes Combat Units Amid Rising Violence

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/afghan-troop-cut-includes-combat-forces-even-as-violence-rises.html
The U.S. troop cut of 10,000 this
year in  Afghanistan  will include combat forces even as violence
increases overall, a top commander said.  U.S. Army Lieutenant General David Rodriguez, the outgoing
operations commander for the 48-nation coalition in Afghanistan,
said several units already slated for withdrawal won’t be
replaced, while others will end their tours early.  “We can do that without a significant change in risk,”
Rodriguez told reporters at the Pentagon yesterday, speaking
from Afghanistan via video link. He is returning to the U.S.
after serving more than 40 months in Afghanistan during the past
4 1/2 years.  While violence has dropped where the troops have been
focused in the south, it has increased elsewhere, including in
the eastern part of the country and at the edges of the most
populated areas, he said. A planned addition of 70,000 Afghan
soldiers and police in the next year will help fill in gaps from
the departure of U.S. forces, he said.  The coalition, led by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, aims to preserve the military gains it has won
with last year’s “surge” of 33,000 U.S. troops and about 7,000
from other nations. President  Barack Obama  last month announced
that all of the additional American forces will be removed by
September 2012. Others in the coalition are considering force
cuts.  ‘Uncertainties Remain’  While the coalition effort has made progress, “serious
problems and uncertainties remain,” said  Anthony Cordesman , a
military analyst at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies, a policy group in Washington, after a recent visit to
Afghanistan.  “This progress may be wasted unless the U.S. and its
allies do a better job of assessing the risks that remain in the
war, resourcing it over time and showing the necessary strategic
patience,” he wrote in a June 20 report with CSIS research
associate Adam Mausner.  Afghanistan’s Ambassador to the U.S., Eklil Ahmad Hakimi,
said his country and its international supporters plan a
conference in Bonn in December to discuss progress in the
transition to Afghan control and toward reaching a peace
agreement with the Taliban.  The meeting will mark the 10th anniversary of the agreement
that established a transitional government after the U.S.-led
invasion following the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.  Afghanistan should be ready by then to move from its
reconstruction phase to development, he said.  “That’s our hope, that with the help of our international
partners we can make a new road map for the development of
Afghanistan for the next 10 years,” Hakimi said in an interview
in  Washington  July 5.  Afghan Control  The coalition plans to hand over control of security to
Afghan forces later this month in the first seven districts and
provinces announced by President  Hamid Karzai  in May, including
most of Kabul and Lashkar Gah in Helmand Province. Ceremonies in
each area will formalize the handoff, Zahir Tanin, Afghanistan’s
ambassador to the  United Nations , told the  Security Council  in
 New York .  Talks have begun on a “transition dividend,” Staffan de
Mistura, head of the UN mission to Afghanistan, told the council
yesterday. Some military savings, he said, “may be utilized in
order to promote and ensure that the Afghan local authorities,
in the areas that are being transitioned, have the feeling that
there will be a continuing interest and substantive support to
development.”  Progress Cited  U.S. military officials have warned since late last year
that violence probably would increase as military pressure on
the Taliban increases and the militants seek to recover lost
ground.  Led by Taliban suicide attacks and assassinations, violence
increased by 51 percent in the past three months compared with
the same period in 2010, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said
in a report released before 12 people died when guerrillas
stormed a major hotel in Kabul last week.  Violence overall probably won’t decline until next year and
conditions remain “fragile and reversible,” said Rodriguez.
Still, “progress is indisputable” against the Taliban, he
said.  The coalition has captured or killed more than 1,000
insurgents in the past six months, a 250 percent increase over
the same period last year, and the number of weapons caches
uncovered and destroyed has risen 300 percent, Rodriguez said.  Afghan Security Forces  “We have destroyed their support bases and their
supplies,” said Rodriguez, who returns to the U.S. next week to
become head of U.S. Army Forces Command.  The Afghan security forces also are getting stronger, he
said. They responded “very, very quickly” to the Kabul hotel
attack and “successfully prevented numerous  suicide bombers 
from killing hundreds of civilians,” Rodriguez said.  The ability of Afghan civilian officials to maintain
control over areas that have been cleared of insurgents still
lags behind, Rodriguez said. The U.S. still needs more
cooperation from neighboring  Pakistan  to intercept fighters and
roadside bombs moving across the border, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 