-- 
African Barrick Shares Hit as Mining Boom Triggers Tax Grab

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-07-07T16:45:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/african-move-to-cash-in-on-commodity-boom-weighs-on-mining-company-shares.html
African countries are moving to grab
a bigger slice of their commodity wealth as rivalry for the
world’s remaining reserves of  iron ore , uranium and gold sap the
bargaining power of companies such as  Anglo American Plc. (AAL)   Tanzania’s proposal to study a so-called super tax on mines
sent African Barrick Gold Plc, the East African nation’s biggest
producer of the metal, to a record low in June. Ghana, Namibia,
Guinea,  Uganda ,  Mozambique  and Gabon also are acting to increase
their share of profits from mining.  The balance of power is swinging in favor of African
governments as commodity prices soar and  Brazil ’s  Vale SA (VALE5)  and
 China ’s Minmetals Resources Ltd. join Western companies bidding
for contracts. At the same time, policy makers are looking to
finance investment in roads, rail links and power supplies that
they say is essential to maintain growth that has averaged 5.7
percent across the continent over the past decade.  “The fact that Chinese, Brazilian and Indian companies are
becoming much more involved in the African mining space means
that Western mining companies are feeling squeezed,” Chris Melville, a London-based African mining consultant at Menas
Associates, said in a June 14 telephone interview. “When you
have more suitors, you can afford to be a little bit more
selective and a little bit more demanding.”  Mineral Wealth  Companies may have little choice but to pay more. The
copper belt running through Zambia and the  Democratic Republic
of Congo  holds 10 percent of world copper reserves, while Congo
alone has two-thirds of cobalt deposits. Botswana says it has
200 billion metric tons of coal reserves and Guinea is the
world’s biggest exporter of bauxite, the ore used to make the
main raw material in aluminum production. The continent also has
some of the world’s richest seams of uranium, platinum and gold.  Shares in mining companies are suffering as governments
begin to flex their new-found muscle, even as the S&P GSCI Index
of 24 commodities jumped 40 percent in the past 12 months.  Kenmare Resources Plc (KMR) , a Dublin-based producer of titanium
minerals in Mozambique, dropped 8.1 percent yesterday after the
government said it plans to revise the country’s mining law and
will seek to give the state a share of projects in “strategic
sectors” such as coal.  New Licenses  Kenmare’s managing director, Michael Carvill, said by phone
today that the plans won’t affect its existing operation in the
southern African nation. Changes to Mozambique’s mining laws
will only apply to new licenses, Mario Marques, adviser to
Mineral Resources Minister Esperanca Bias, said today in an e-
mailed response to questions.  London-based African Barrick Gold slumped 7.8 percent on
June 8 to the lowest price since the stock started trading in
March 2010, after Tanzania’s planning commission recommended the
government consider a super tax. The company said in a statement
on June 9 that its tax obligations were fixed by existing
contracts and could not be changed.  Australia ’s  Extract Resources Ltd. (EXT) , which is proposing a
$1.7 billion uranium venture in Namibia, fell 20 percent April
28-29 on concern the African nation’s government planned to give
mining rights to a state-owned company. Extract said June 7 that
it was in talks to sell a stake in its Husab uranium project to
state-owned Epangelo Mining Co. “on a commercial basis.”  Shares in  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) ,  Impala Platinum Holdings
Ltd. (IMP)  and Anglo American Platinum Ltd., majority owned by Anglo
American, slid in March after Zimbabwe’s government said it will
ensure foreign companies are “junior partners” in the country.  Definite Trend  “This is definitely a trend which we are seeing now and
some of it has to do with commodities, but I see a lot of it has
to do with the perception from governments that they’re not
getting a fair share,” Mouhamadou Niang, the manager in charge
of mining sector investments at the African Development Bank,
said in a June 16 phone interview from Cairo. “There are
demands from both sides” and there “needs to be a sense of
continuity and stability of fiscal and legal regimes.”  The drive for a greater share of mineral wealth may move to
the continent’s biggest economy,  South Africa .  South Africa’s ruling African National Congress party
agreed in September to study industry nationalization to meet
demands from  Julius Malema , head of its youth arm.  ‘Cold Feet’  “Investors, the traditional suppliers of risk capital to
this industry, are getting cold feet,”  Impala Platinum ’s Chief
Executive Officer David Brown, said June 28 in Johannesburg.
“The risk associated with future investment in South African
mining has increased considerably as seen from the outside
world.”  The nationalization debate risks cutting the mine output
that contributes 8.8 percent of South Africa’s gross domestic
product, he said. Across the continent, talk of higher taxes may
damp investment.  “Governments tempted to move in this direction convince
themselves that necessary mining investments in their countries
will continue unabated,” Anglo American Chief Executive Officer
 Cynthia Carroll , said June 30 at the Melbourne Mining Club in
 London . “They are wrong. International businesses have choices
to make between investment opportunities in different
jurisdictions.”  Options  With so many of the world’s remaining mineral deposits in
Africa, those options may be narrowing, just as Africa’s choices
are widening. Governments are being courted by more miners,
particularly from China, Liberia’s President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf told an audience in London on June 13.  The Chinese are “so aggressive and hungry for raw
materials that they are penetrating in a way, and their
processes and procedures are not as complicated,” she said.
“We have also reached a place of maturity in how we
negotiate.”  China Union Investment Ltd. is developing a $2.6 billion
iron-ore deposit in Liberia, while  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  is helping to
exploit oil deposits in Uganda. China also has a $6 billion deal
with Democratic Republic of Congo to build infrastructure in
exchange for minerals.  Countries outside Africa are also raising taxes. Australia
estimates that its plan to impose a 30 percent levy on iron-ore
and coal profits will earn A$7.7 billion ($8.2 billion) in its
first two years, the country’s Treasury Department said last
month. The tax, which will help pay for road and rail projects,
is scheduled to start in July 2012 after the laws are passed by
parliament.  Brazil is studying an additional tax on its most profitable
mining projects, the newspaper Folha de S.Paulo reported on June
21, without saying where it got the information.  “There’s definitely more competition and the mining
companies that want to be here in  Africa  in the long run have to
revisit to some extent their strategy in terms of how they
negotiate concession contracts,” Melville said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Kay  in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 