-- 
Thai Stock Index May Gain 11% After Election

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-07-06T02:07:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/thai-stock-index-may-gain-11-after-election.html
Thailand ’s benchmark stock index, the
world’s best performer in the past week, may rally another 11
percent as an election victory by allies of exiled former
Premier Thaksin Shinawatra lures overseas investors, the
nation’s biggest money manager said.  The SET Index may climb to 1,200 by the end of this year,
Petcharat Powattanasatien, who help oversee about $23 billion of
assets at Bangkok-based Kasikorn Asset Management Co., said in a
phone interview yesterday. That level would be the highest since
July 1996. The gauge closed at 1,084.59 yesterday.  The Pheu Thai party, led by Thaksin’s sister Yingluck
Shinawatra, won 265 seats of a total 500 in the July 3 election,
allowing her to become the country’s first female prime
minister. The party has pledged to raise minimum wages, increase
rice prices and accelerate the construction of mass transit
systems to boost incomes and spur economic growth.  “Overseas investors will pour in more money into Thai
equities following the large sell-off because the vote removed
their fear about political instability,” Petcharat said. “The
government’s spending will also bolster the economy and domestic
consumption, which will fuel growth in corporate earnings.”  Thailand’s stock index rallied 4.7 percent two days ago,
the biggest gain since April 2010, after Pheu Thai’s victory
over Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Democrats. Overseas
investors bought 10.7 billion baht ($351 million) more Thai
stocks than they sold on the day, the most since Dec. 8, 2010.  Best Performer  They sold a net 27 billion baht in June as the SET Index
slumped 3 percent. The gauge’s 7.4 percent gain in the past week
is the most of 91 primary indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  Petcharat’s  K SET 50 Index Fund (KRSET50)  has gained 43 percent in
the past year, beating 95 percent of its peers, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The SET 50 Index, the gauge that the
fund tracks, has risen 35 percent in that time.  Petcharat declined to specify which individual shares
Kasikorn Asset sold and bought. She recommends shares of banks
as improving confidence among businesses and consumers will
boost loan growth and favors property developers as Yingluck’s
party campaigned for tax incentives for home purchases. She also
likes mobile phone companies as the new government may grant new
licenses for high-speed wireless service.  Pheu Thai will allow a tax allowance for buyers of their
first houses, according to the party’s  website . It will also
speed up the offering of so-called third-generation wireless
service in the country for the first time, it said. The party
has also pledged to build new mass-transit systems in the
capital of Bangkok and nearby provinces.  Policy Implementation  “After forming a new government, there are many mega
projects in the pipeline that can be implemented right away,
which in turn would instill everyone’s confidence to invest,
lend, spend and consume,” Voravan Taraphum, managing director
of BBL Asset Management Co. Ltd., which has about $4.9 billion
of assets, said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.
“The new government’s immediate policy implementations will
continue to be positive for the stock markets.”  Voravan’s  BBL Bualuang Thanakom Open-end Fund (BTK)  has climbed
17 percent this year, beating 95 percent of its peers, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thaksin was ousted in a 2006 coup and has lived overseas
since fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power. Parties linked
to him have won the past four national elections on support in
northern areas for cheap health care plans and microcredit
policies. Demonstrations by his supporters last year led to 91
deaths.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  