-- 
Alberta’s AIMCo Expects Six Infrastructure, Real Estate Deals This Year

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-06T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/aimco-expects-six-infrastructure-real-estate-deals-this-year.html
Alberta Investment Management Corp.,
a Canadian pension-fund manager with C$68.8 billion ($71.5
billion) in assets, expects to make six deals in areas such as
real estate and infrastructure this year to increase returns,
Chief Executive Officer Leo de Bever said.  “In the next year, my guess is you’re going to see half a
dozen transactions ranging from C$100 million, C$200 million to
maybe the biggest one being C$500 million,” de Bever said in a
July 4 interview in Toronto. “I don’t want to make transactions
just for the sake of making transactions; they have to be good
deals.”  AIMCo, as the  Edmonton , Alberta-based fund is known, is
seeking to increase returns while it reorganizes into more of a
commercially based investment fund like  Ontario Teachers’
Pension Plan . AIMCo was established in January 2008 to manage
investments for Alberta’s provincial government, public pension
plans and endowments, including the C$15.5 billion  Alberta
Heritage Savings Trust Fund .  The fund had an 8.2 percent return on investments in the
year ended March 31, generating C$5.4 billion in investment
income, according to annual results released yesterday. AIMCo’s
assets at the end of March fell 2.7 percent from C$70.7 billion
in the year-earlier period.  “It’s not as good as I would like it to be,” de Bever
said. “Where we lost a bit of money was in having to spend
money in the last fiscal year to put us in a better position to
make money going forward.”  Foreign Properties  Over the last three years, AIMCo has almost doubled the
number of investment professionals it employs, from 138 in 2008
to 260 today, according to the annual report. The firm’s results
missed the 11 percent annual return of Canadian pension funds
for the period ended March 31, as estimated in an April 20
report by RBC Dexia Investor Services.  Canada ’s benchmark
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index advanced 16 percent in
that 12-month period.  AIMCo managed about C$50 billion in balanced funds, which
posted a 10 percent return. That was partly offset by a 3.1
percent return in government funds, which accounted for C$18.9
billion of managed assets.  De Bever said he’s looking for “mid-sized opportunities.”  “We look for opportunities anywhere, but they have to
provide stable, long-term returns,” de Bever, 63, said. “In
real estate, we’re looking at  Europe  and the U.S., because we
see some good opportunities there.”  Foreign properties may rise to one-third of total real-
estate holdings “over time,” AIMCo said in its annual report.
AIMCo’s C$5.6 billion in real estate is mostly in Canada, with
3.5 percent in the U.K., U.S. and Europe.  ‘A Little Nervous’  Opportunities to invest in private assets, particularly
infrastructure, may shift back to  North America  as governments
such as California run short of money to get things built.  De Bever said he’s “getting a little nervous” about  Latin
America  because assets are becoming pricey. He’s wary of
emerging economies.  “We’re looking across the board, but I’m a little nervous
about  India  because of the disorganization on the government
side, and in  China  -- where there’s a lot of infrastructure
opportunity -- I’m not sure what my legal remedies are,” de
Bever said.  AIMCo will probably skew more to private holdings in the
future, de Bever said.  “The shift will be to trying to earn more return from
places that give us a comparative advantage, and that is private
equity, infrastructure and so on, where cash and patience count
for a lot,” he said.  Cost-Cutting  De Bever also said he’s expecting “rough weather” for
bonds after three decades of “phenomenal” performance.  “I think people have gotten used to returns in fixed
income that cannot be sustained going forward,” he said.  De Bever said he’s aiming to “drive down costs to an
absolute minimum” as he reorganizes AIMCo to be more like other
Canadian pension plans.  “We shouldn’t be spending money unnecessarily in the long
run,” he said. “We should be positioning this organization to
be as good as any in this space two or three years from now.”  #<702897.7555166.2.1.87.23378.96>#  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  