-- 
Air France-KLM to Split Widebody Order Between Airbus, Boeing

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-07-06T17:51:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/airbus-boeing-split-air-france-klm-order.html
Air France-KLM (AF)  Group,  Europe ’s
biggest airline, plans to split an order for about 100 widebody
planes between Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA) , Chief Executive
Officer Pierre Henri Gourgeon told French politicians.  Gourgeon declared his intention to divide the contract
yesterday in a closed-door hearing at the French national
assembly’s commission for sustainable development. Paris-based
Air France-KLM confirmed the testimony today.  The CEO’s remarks, reiterating similar comments made in
public, came after more than 180 of 577 French deputies signed a
petition pressing him to favor Airbus, a Toulouse, France-based
unit of European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. that’s 15
percent French owned with a largely French and German workforce,  “Gourgeon’s comments yesterday were similar to what he has
said all along,” Air  France  spokeswoman Brigitte Barrand said
today. “He’s said many times the order would probably be split.”  Air France operates Airbus A320-series aircraft on routes
within France and to some European countries, while for long-
haul flights it’s more heavily reliant on Boeing than Airbus,
with 55 Boeing 777s, according to figures on its website.  Boeing’s newest plane for long-distance trips is the 787,
or  Dreamliner , which is scheduled to begin commercial flights
soon with Japan’s All Nippon Airways Co.  Airbus’s  A350 , offered as a competitor to the 787 and 16-
year-old 777, is set to begin commercial services in late 2013.  Air France wouldn’t be the first carrier to purchase both
planes, since large airlines with big fleets frequently order
competing models to keep competition keen. Singapore Airlines
Ltd. is among those to order 787s and A350s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  