-- 
Major League Baseball Objects to Dodgers’ Court Request for Loan Documents

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-07-06T23:28:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/major-league-baseball-objects-to-los-angeles-dodgers-documents-request.html
Major League Baseball , continuing its
fight over how to finance the bankrupt  Los Angeles  Dodgers,
asked a judge to dismiss the team’s request for documents and to
put league officials under oath about a proposed loan.  In court papers filed today, the league accused Dodgers’
owner  Frank McCourt  of using the team’s bankruptcy “as a forum
for the vetting of his purported personal disputes and issues
with Major League Baseball.”  Last week, the Dodgers said it needed to interview league
officials and examine documents to show that Baseball
Commissioner  Bud Selig  was treating the team differently from
others in the league. The team is trying to win approval of a
$150 million loan to keep operating over opposition from the
league, which proposed an alternative financing arrangement.  The Dodgers filed for bankruptcy on June 27 after Selig
rejected a proposed television-rights deal McCourt negotiated
with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports.  Selling future cable television rights to Fox Sports would
have generated enough money for the Dodgers operations and would
have helped resolve an ownership fight McCourt is having with
his ex-wife Jamie McCourt in divorce court in Los Angeles.  The team rejected financing from the league because of
“abusive conduct by the commissioner,” the Dodgers said in
court papers filed yesterday. The team claimed that Selig
“starved the Dodgers of cash,” which led to the bankruptcy.  ‘Real Agenda’  The documents the club is seeking “will reveal the
commissioner’s real agenda in his mistreatment of the Dodgers
and demonstrate why the Dodgers should not borrow money from
MLB,” Lyndsey Estin, a Dodgers spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  “Mr. McCourt’s allegations make no sense,” the league
said today in its response. The league actions were motivated by
a need to “investigate mismanagement” of the team.  The Dodgers have asked to question under oath seven current
or former baseball executives, including Selig. The league is
seeking to question McCourt.  The case is In re  Los Angeles Dodgers  LLC, 11-12010,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  