-- 
Thaksin Won’t Take Official Position

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-07-06T04:10:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/thaksin-won-t-take-official-position.html
Exiled former Thai Prime Minister
 Thaksin Shinawatra  doesn’t plan to take any government-related
positions after the party headed by his sister won the July 3
election, lawyer Noppadon Pattama said.  Thaksin “never had any intention to accept any
appointment,” Noppadon, a former foreign minister, said by
phone today. “He can help the country as a Thai citizen. He
doesn’t need to have any official or unofficial position.”  The Bangkok Post earlier cited an unidentified source in
Pheu Thai, led by Thaksin’s sister Yingluck Shinawatra, as
saying he would be appointed as a trade envoy to promote Thai
goods abroad. Noppadon called it “false reporting,” adding
that Thaksin can travel on a passport from Montenegro. Yingluck
said today in Bangkok that the report wasn’t correct.  Since her victory, Yingluck has deflected questions on
whether Pheu Thai’s victory would also pave the way for the
return of her brother, who has directed party affairs from Dubai
since fleeing a jail sentence in 2008. Thaksin was deposed in a
2006 coup and a pro-Thaksin party was ousted a year after
winning the 2007 election in the wake of protests from opponents
who claimed it wanted to rewrite the constitution to benefit
him.  Overseas investors have bought a net $497 million of Thai
stocks the past two days after the election produced a clear
winner. The SET Index fell 0.16 percent to 1,082.83 as of 11:06
a.m. local time. The baht strengthened 0.1 percent to 30.47 per
dollar.  Yingluck called for “unity and reconciliation” at a July
4 press conference in Bangkok at which she announced the
formation of a five-party coalition. Thaksin told reporters the
same day he had no immediate plans to return.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  