-- 
Alere Makes Unsolicited $369 Million Offer for Axis-Shield

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-07-06T20:20:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/alere-makes-indicative-230-million-pound-bid-for-axis-shield-1-.html
Alere Inc. (ALR) , a U.S. maker of medical
diagnostic tests, offered to buy  Axis-Shield Plc (ASD) , valuing the
Scottish competitor at about 230 million pounds ($369 million).
Axis-Shield’s shares surged to the highest level since 2001.  The cash bid is 460 pence a share, a 37 percent premium to
Axis-Shield’s closing price of 335 pence yesterday, Waltham,
Massachusetts-based Alere said in a statement today. Alere made
the preliminary approach on June 7.  Axis-Shield rejected the proposal and declined to enter
into talks, Alere said. The unsolicited offer “fundamentally
undervalues the company and its future prospects,” Axis-Shield
said in a separate statement. Sebastien Jantet, an  Investec Plc (INVP) 
analyst, agreed the bid is low and said other potential
acquirers may approach Axis-Shield.  “Given the current price and Axis’s track record, we think
it undervalues the company,” Jantet said in a note to clients
today. “With Alere putting Axis into play, other bidders may
well emerge including possibly Siemens and Abaxis.”  Axis-Shield may also attract interest from  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT) , said  Michael Mitchell , an analyst at Seymour Price
in London. Julie Simmonds, an analyst at  Collins Stewart  in
London, said  Roche Holding AG  might look at the company, which
may attract as much as 600 pence a share.  Future Prospects  “The current approach materially undervalues the business
and fails to recognize its future prospects,” Robin West, a
 fund manager  at Aviva Investors, which owns 3.1 percent of Axis-
Shield’s stock, said in an e-mailed statement. “We believe
their technology would be very valuable to a number of
businesses.”  Adelle Infante, a spokeswoman for  Abbott Park , Illinois-
based Abbott, declined to comment.  Axis-Shield rose 165 pence to close at 500 pence, the
highest price since 2001, in  London  trading. The 49 percent gain
was the biggest since shares began trading in 1993. Alere rose
39 cents, or 1 percent, to $37.83 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, and has gained 3.4 percent this
year.  Alere said it reserved the right to lower the bid if Axis-
Shield pays a dividend or makes a distribution to shareholders.  “Alere is keen to work toward a recommended takeover offer
for Axis-Shield and would welcome the opportunity to discuss a
possible transaction with Axis-Shield in a constructive
manner,” said the U.S. company, which changed its name from
Inverness Medical Innovations last year.  Jantet, who upgraded his recommendation to “buy” last
month, raised his 12-month target for the shares to 530 pence.  Blood Tests  Axis-Shield makes tests for blood and other fluids with
small, portable analyzers that provide results in about 15
minutes, fitting into Alere’s “point-of-care diagnostics”
business, said  Jeff Jonas , an analyst with Gabelli & Co. in Rye,
 New York .  “They’ve always been a highly acquisitive company, and
this one looks like it’s right up their alleyway,” Jonas, whose
firm holds Alere shares for clients, said in a telephone
interview today. “It seems like a natural tuck-in for them.”  There were 1,030 announced acquisitions of medical products
and diagnostics companies in the last five years through
yesterday, according to Bloomberg data. The average disclosed
deal size was $172.4 million, with an average premium of 38
percent, the data show. The largest was Johnson & Johnson’s
$21.3 billion purchase of Synthes Inc., announced in April.  Axis-Shield, which has its headquarters in Dundee,
Scotland, said yesterday that first-half revenue rose about 10
percent from a year earlier and that the board is confident
about the rest of 2011. The company supplies instruments and
tests used in doctors’ offices and develops, makes and markets
diagnostic test kits for  heart disease , diabetes and other
illnesses.  Axis-Shield’s lipid panel, which is expected to start being
used in Europe this year and in the U.S. next year to detect
fats in the blood, “transforms” the company, Jantet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh News at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  