-- 
Alibaba’s Ma Sees ‘Very Large’ Alipay Payout, China Entrepreneur Reports

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-07-06T08:10:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/alibaba-s-ma-sees-large-alipay-payout-china-entrepreneur-says.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Chairman
Jack Ma said negotiations with Yahoo! Inc. and  Softbank Corp. (9984) 
over the spinoff of the Alipay unit will result in the payment
of a “very large” compensation for the two shareholders,  China 
Entrepreneur magazine reported, citing an interview with Ma.  Ma said he will ensure Yahoo and Softbank are compensated
now and in the future for Alibaba’s loss of Alipay, according to
the magazine. The executive faces pressure from the U.S.
government and the media to resolve the issue, according to the
Chinese-language report.  Alibaba transferred Alipay, the nation’s most-popular
online-payment service, to a Chinese company controlled by Ma in
August 2010, a transaction that wasn’t ratified by Alibaba
directors. Yahoo, Softbank and Alibaba have made “substantive
and encouraging progress” in talks toward an agreement
regarding Alipay, the companies said in a June 21 statement.  John Spelich, an Alibaba spokesman in  Hong Kong , confirmed
Ma was interviewed by China Entrepreneur on June 14 and declined
to verify the article’s contents. Lisa Tam, a Hong Kong-based
spokeswoman at Yahoo, couldn’t immediately comment. Takeaki Nukii, a spokesman at Tokyo-based Softbank, declined to comment.  Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo, the biggest shareholder
in Alibaba, said in May that it wasn’t informed until March 31
about the transfer of Alipay equity to Ma’s company. Ma
previously said Alibaba’s board had discussed for three years
the need to reorganize Alipay to comply with China’s
restrictions on foreign investment in payment operators, and
that the spinoff was “transparent” and “legal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  