-- 
Manchester City Close to Landing Arsenal’s Nasri, Daily Mail Says: Roundup

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-06T09:12:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/manchester-city-close-to-landing-arsenal-s-nasri-daily-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Done Deal?  Manchester City officials say they believe the club landed
Arsenal midfielder Samir Nasri for 19 million pounds ($30
million), the  Daily Mail  said.  The deal is near completion and comes after  Carlos Tevez 
stated his desire to leave the Eastlands club, the Mail said.
City signed former Arsenal defender Gael Clichy two days ago.  Nasri has a year left on his contract with Arsenal and has
rejected a 90,000 pounds-per-week offer.  Maximum Value  City has told Tevez he can go, but only for 50 million
pounds, the  Daily Mirror  said.  Tevez said wants to leave for family reasons and City is
determined to get the maximum value for him, the Mirror said.  Real  Madrid , Juventus and  Inter Milan  are seen as Tevez’s
only options, but there are few clubs willing or able to meet
City’s valuation and pay 200,000 pounds per week in wages, the
newspaper said.  Aguero Interest  City may also revive its interest in Atletico Madrid
striker  Sergio Aguero , the  Daily Telegraph  said.  Atletico is resigned to losing Aguero, who has a 41
million-pound release clause in his contract, the Telegraph
said. Juventus is the only club to have made a firm offer for
the 23-year-old, the newspaper said.  Modric’s Demand  Luka Modric will tell Tottenham chairman Daniel Levy he
wants a move to Chelsea when the two meet today, the  Sun said .  Modric, 25, is adamant he wants to leave Spurs even after
signing a new six-year contract two months ago, the Sun said.
Chelsea has already had a 22 million-pound bid rejected, the
newspaper said.  QPR for Cole?  Queens Park Rangers is set to make an offer for West Ham
striker  Carlton Cole , the  Guardian said .  Cole, 27, has two years remaining on his contract and
relegated West Ham would listen to bids of around 6 million
pounds, or even consider a further payment if QPR avoids
relegation in its first season back in the Premier League, the
Guardian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 