-- 
Paul Allen’s Suit Should Stay on Hold, Apple and Google Say

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-06T19:46:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/apple-google-say-paul-allen-s-patent-suit-should-stay-on-hold.html
Paul G. Allen’s claims that 11
companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  infringed his
business’s online-shopping technology should remain on hold
while the U.S. government reviews the quality of its patents,
the defendants said in a court filing.  U.S. District Judge Marsha Pechman in  Seattle  ordered on
June 16 that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office be given time
to evaluate whether the four patents cover novel inventions, a
decision that Allen’s Interval Licensing LLC has asked to be
reconsidered. The defendants, which also include  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ,
Facebook Inc. and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , said yesterday that the judge’s
decision “was correct and based on a reasoned analysis.”  In granting the request to put the case on hold, the judge,
who has yet to rule on Interval’s request, said the agency
review could “reshape” the patents. The patents, which mainly
cover common electronic-commerce applications for displaying and
categorizing product information, were obtained from a defunct
computer-science and communications research business Microsoft
co-founder Allen and David Liddle formed in 1992.  Allen, 58, controls Seattle-based Interval, a patent-
licensing company that is seeking unspecified cash compensation
and a court order to block further use of the inventions. The
other six companies named in the lawsuit, filed in August, are
AOL Inc.,  Office Depot Inc. (ODP) ,  OfficeMax Inc. (OMX) ,  Staples Inc. (SPLS) ,
Yahoo! Inc. and Google Inc.’s YouTube.  Pechman said that since Interval doesn’t compete with the
companies, it won’t lose any market share from the delay.  The companies in March had asked the patent office to take
a second look at the patents and then asked the court to put the
case on hold until that review could be completed. Interval said
the case had progressed while awaiting the judge’s decision and
in a June 24 filing called the delay “unproductive.” The
patent office has rejected some of the arguments the companies
put forth, Interval said.  The companies said people hired to analyze the case “could
simply pick up where they left off” if the patent office
upholds the patents in their current form, so no work would be
lost.  Interval Licensing owns the patents from Interval Research,
a computer-science and communications researcher that Allen shut
in 2000. Interval Research helped fund outside projects,
including work by Google founders Sergey Brin and Lawrence Page,
according to a statement announcing the suit. Allen has
maintained ownership of the patents through companies he
controls.  The lead case is Interval Licensing LLC v.  AOL Inc. (AOL) ,
10cv1385, U.S. District Court for the Western District of
 Washington  (Seattle).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  