-- 
Apple Escalates Samsung Fight With ITC Case

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-07-06T20:30:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/apple-increases-legal-battle-against-samsung-with-itc-case-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  filed a U.S. trade
complaint that seeks to block imports of Samsung Electronics
Co.’s Galaxy S mobile phone and Galaxy Tab computer, days after
asking a federal court to halt sales of the devices.  The complaint  submitted  yesterday with the U.S.
International Trade Commission in Washington counters patent-
infringement claims Samsung filed at the agency last week that
seek to block imports of Apple’s iPhone and iPad. Cupertino,
California-based Apple claims Samsung is infringing seven
patents related to the technology and design of the devices.  Apple, which has accused competitors of “widespread
imitation,” has taken particular aim at Suwon, South Korea-
based Samsung, which had been a supplier of chips for some Apple
devices. The ferocity of the legal dispute that began in April,
which now includes cases in at least four countries, is
surprising because the companies are partners, said  Brian Marshall , an analyst with Gleacher & Co. in  San Francisco .  “It has become very public and very ugly, very quickly,”
he said. “They’re just going after each other’s throats.”  Marshall said a ban on Samsung imports is unlikely. He
expects the companies to reach a settlement and cross-licensing
deal. He said that while Apple has been reluctant to license its
intellectual property, the company “may not have a choice” in
this case because Samsung has so many patents Apple may need.  Samsung representatives weren’t immediately available to
comment.  Galaxy Competition  Apple rose $2.33 to $351.76 at 4 p.m. New York time in
Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock rose 9 percent this year.
Samsung closed at 898,000 won in Seoul trading and is down 5.4
percent this year.  The ITC case, which could be heard in 15 to 18 months if
the commission agrees to investigate, opens a second front in
which Apple is trying to slow Samsung’s Galaxy products before
they can eat into the iPhone and iPad markets in the U.S. Apple
last week filed a request in federal court in  San Jose ,
 California , asking that sales of the Galaxy S 4G, Infuse 4G,
Droid Charge and Galaxy Tab 10.1 be halted until a patent-
infringement trial can be held.  “Samsung has followed each of Apple’s groundbreaking
products with imitation products that incorporate Apple’s
technology and distinctive design,” Apple told the ITC.  Market Share  Apple, once best known for its Mac computers, now relies on
its iPhone for about 50 percent of sales and the iPad tablet for
12 percent, according to first-quarter figures compiled by
Bloomberg. Samsung got about 31 percent of its total revenue
from telecommunications devices and equipment.  Samsung introduced a larger tablet computer in February and
an update to its Galaxy S smartphone, which both run on Google
Inc.’s Android operating system.  Android is the most popular mobile-device operating system
in the U.S., accounting for 38.1 percent of the market in the
three months ended in May, according to Reston, Virginia-based
researcher ComScore Inc. Apple’s iOS, used in the iPad and
iPhone, made up 26.6 percent of the market.  HTC Buys S3  Apple, which filed the first lawsuit against Samsung in
April, has gone after other handset makers, including Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. and Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC Corp. HTC
today said it agreed to pay $300 million for closely held S3
Graphics Co., a maker of image-compression technology used in
video games that has accused Apple of patent infringement. S3
won a ruling last week in which an ITC judge said Apple was
infringing two of the company’s patents.  The patents in the ITC complaint against Samsung cover
gestures on a touch screen, a way of presenting opaque and
translucent images simultaneously, a type of push-button system,
and a headphone interface that detects the presence of a
headphone or handset plug. The design patents cover the unique
ornamental features of the iPhone, including the rounded edges
and profile.  Samsung,  Asia ’s biggest maker of chips, flat screens and
mobile phones, has been the second-highest recipient of U.S.
patents for the past four years, behind International Business
Machines Corp., according to  figures  compiled by the
Intellectual Property Owners Association. Samsung received 4,518
patents last year, while Apple received 563.  Litigious History  Jack Ablin , chief investment officer for Harris Private
Bank in  Chicago , which oversees $55 billion, said the aggressive
legal approach makes sense for Apple.  “If you’re in the business of design, you have to protect
your patents,” he said. “That comes with the territory. This
is completely consistent with their entire history. They’ve been
pretty litigious when it comes to defending their intellectual
property.”  In response to Apple’s request for a quicker trial in the
civil case, Samsung yesterday claimed that Apple “attempts to
create an emergency where none exists,” and contended that,
even if Apple succeeds, the case “will not affect by one minute
Samsung’s ability to continue selling competing products.”  The new case is In the Matter of Certain Electronic Digital
Media Devices, Complaint No. 2827, and Samsung’s case is In the
Matter of Mobile Electronic Devices, including Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, and Tablet Computer, Complaint No. 2824, both U.S.
International Trade Commission ( Washington .)  The civil suit is Apple Inc. v Samsung Electronics Co.,
11cv1846, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  