-- 
Argentina Loses Debt Immunity Suit in U.K. Supreme Court, Reversing Ruling

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-06T15:11:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/argentina-loses-debt-immunity-suit-in-u-k-supreme-court-reversing-ruling.html
Argentina ’s state immunity can’t
prevent an offshore trader in distressed sovereign debt from
using British courts to enforce claims over the country’s 2001
default, the U.K. Supreme Court ruled.  The decision in  London  today, which reverses a lower court
ruling from last year, permits an affiliate of New York-based
hedge fund Elliott Associates LP to seize Argentina’s assets in
Britain using a $284 million U.S. court judgment it has against
the South American nation. Argentina had argued U.K. courts
didn’t have jurisdiction on the issue.  “It’s probably a good day for investors in sovereign
debt,”  Philippa Charles , a lawyer with Mayer Brown in London,
said in an interview. “To make the bonds attractive, Argentina
had to waive some sovereign immunity rights and this case was
about the extent to which they’d done so.”  Four years after Argentina’s $95 billion default, then-
President  Nestor Kirchner  offered bondholders 30 cents on the
dollar for their debt -- a deal rejected by holders of about $20
billion of the bonds, including Cayman Islands-based NML Capital
Ltd., the Elliott affiliate in the U.K. case.  Second Debt Swap  Kirchner’s wife and successor, President Cristina Fernandez
de Kirchner, last year held a second restructuring, exchanging
$12.9 billion of the debt that wasn’t swapped in the 2005
negotiation, bringing the total amount cleared to more than 92
percent of bonds outstanding.  Today’s ruling could have implications for buyers of
European sovereign debt, since countries in  Europe  likely hold
significant assets in the U.K., Charles said.  The U.K. court “has rejected another of Argentina’s
desperate legal strategies contrived to avoid repaying holders
of its defaulted bonds,” Scott Tagliarino, a spokesman for NML,
said today in a statement.  A spokesman for Argentina’s Economy Ministry didn’t
immediately respond to a call and a text message sent to his
mobile phone.  The judgment comes a day after a federal appeals court in
 New York  ruled against NML and another bondholder in their bid
to seize $105 million of Argentine central bank assets held at
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York .  The New York court said the Foreign Sovereign Immunities
Act bars NML and EM Ltd., which hold almost $2.4 billion in
judgments against Argentina, from collecting funds belonging to
Banco Central de la Republica Argentina.  $172 Million  The disputed bonds, issued by Argentina in February and
July 2000, were purchased by NML between 2001 and 2003, for
about half their face value of $172 million. The bonds were
governed by New York law, resulting in a 2006 U.S. judgment that
Argentina owed NML the full value of the bonds plus $112 million
in unpaid interest, according to the U.K. ruling.  Argentine central bank President Mercedes Marco Del Pont
praised yesterday’s decision while saying she expects it to be
appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court.  Yesterday’s U.S. ruling overturned an April 2010 decision
by U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in which Argentina’s use of
funds from its central bank was found to have “contributed to
fraud and injustice perpetrated by the republic on the
bondholders.”  The U.K.  case  is: NML Capital v. Argentina, U.K. Supreme
Court, [2011] UKSC 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  