-- 
Larry David Eats Palestine Chicken; Death-Defying Pedophile: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-07-06T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/larry-david-eats-palestinian-chicken-death-defying-pedophile-greg-evans.html
How does Larry David top the
wonderful “Seinfeld” reunion season of “ Curb Your
Enthusiasm ?” Judging from three new episodes, he doesn’t.  So curb your expectations, even though the HBO comedy about
the misanthropic comic is still one of the better arguments for
premium cable.  Season Eight, which premieres Sunday, finds Larry
confronting bachelorhood. The hinted-at reconnection with wife
Cheryl at the end of Season Seven didn’t stick (mirroring the
real David’s life).  This summer’s first episode is called “The Divorce.”
Beyond the title, I can’t comment on the debut. The three
episodes available for review, at David’s request, are the
third, fifth and ninth installments of the 10-episode season.  A prevention against spoilers, or cherry-picking for
quality? Hard to say. The episodes are consistently amusing --
probably funnier in spots than anything you’ll watch on TV this
summer -- but they’re unexceptional by the show’s highest
standards.  The only discernible multiepisode arc, beginning by week
six, is Larry’s temporary relocation to  New York .  “Palestinian Chicken,” the season’s third show, hits that
sweet spot of mundane and absurd that’s missing in Episode Nine,
which features a burning high-rise, a dangling baby and
baseball’s butterfingered Bill Buckner.  In the chicken episode, Larry and manager/pal Jeff (Jeff Garlin) are hooked on the scrumptious dish served at a
Palestinian restaurant with a decidedly anti-Israel ambience.  Lip-Smacking Sound  Spotting a beautiful woman at the next table, Larry offers
a typically perverse, “She not only doesn’t want you, she
doesn’t even acknowledge your right to exist.... That’s a turn-
on.”  The tangle of plots throughout the episode involve a  golf
tournament , the newfound religiosity of a yarmulke-wearing Marty
Funkhouser (Bob Einstein), an extramarital affair and the
annoying lip-smacking “aah” sound made by Jeff’s wife Susie
(Susie Essman) after each sip of a beverage.  Yes, that’s the same habit that irritated Elaine in an
episode of “Seinfeld.” But if you’re still watching “Curb”
after seven seasons you’ve long since accepted David’s
recycling. His obsessions, like his show, die hard.  “Curb Your Enthusiasm” airs Sunday on  HBO  at 10 p.m. New
York time. Rating: ***  “Torchwood: Miracle Day”  An unrepentant child murderer survives what should be a
lethal injection. A suicide bomber, near-headless and charred to
a crispy stain, opens his eyes.  Death has taken a holiday on “ Torchwood: Miracle Day ,”
that goofy, sci-fi spinoff of BBC hit “Doctor Who” that’s
crossing the Atlantic after three seasons in the U.K.  Teaming an American cast with three U.K. holdovers, the
retooled show about alien hunters has the casual smarts of the
old “X Files,” blowing away more recent homegrown efforts like
“The Event” and “Falling Skies.”  Subtitled “Miracle Day,” the 10-episode series on Starz
plays out like an action-heavy game of What If. Humans, even
decapitated ones, have suddenly stopped dying. The ramifications
are endless, dire and surprising.  Mostly, though, the threat of overpopulation, starvation,
disease and unending pain loom, along with the question, What,
or who, did this to us? And who’s going to pay for health care?  Among the should-be-dead: CIA agent Rex Matheson, played by
Mekhi Phifer (“ER”), investigating the mystery despite a
gaping hole in his chest.  Death-Defying Pedophile  Also on the case are CIA underling Esther Drummond (Alexa
Havins) and two agents from the defunct, supernaturally inclined
Torchwood Institute of Wales: Captain Jack Harkness (John
Barrowman), a dashing, bisexual immortal, and Gwen Cooper (Eve
Myles), the sole human survivor of the decimated Torchwood.  New viewers needn’t concern themselves with the Torchwood
backstory. “Miracle Day” is self-contained.  Written by series creator Russell T. Davies, the debut
episode lays all the necessary groundwork and introduces two
terrific villains, deliciously portrayed: the execution-defying
pedophile (Bill Pullman), who becomes a prophet for the
nightmare age, and a cheerfully devious pharmaceutical rep
(Lauren Ambrose) who knows an opportunity when she sees one.  Suicide bombers  who can’t die need lots of painkillers.  “Torchwood: Miracle Day” airs Friday on Starz at 10 p.m.
New York time. Rating: ***1/2  (Greg Evans is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Greg Evans  at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 