-- 
Asia Stocks Rise as Hyundai Heavy Climbs; China Banks Slide on Stake Sales

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-06T10:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/asian-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-hyundai-heavy-jumps-hynix-falls.html
Asian stocks rose, reversing earlier
declines, as materials gained and Hyundai Heavy Industries Co.
jumped in  Seoul  after a takeover bid collapsed. Chinese banks
led financial shares lower after stake sales and on concern
about  credit quality .  Hyundai Heavy, a shipbuilder, jumped 6.4 percent after
saying it won’t bid for control of Hynix Semiconductor Inc.
Commodity companies advanced, led by BHP Billiton Ltd., as oil
and gold climbed and after copper touched a 10-week high.  Bank
of China Ltd. (3988) , the country’s fourth-largest lender by market
value, tumbled to the lowest level in a year and China
Construction Bank Corp., the No. 2, fell 3.2 percent after
 Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings Pte sold stakes worth $3.6 billion.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 0.3 percent to 137.41
as of 7:19 p.m. in Tokyo after falling 0.1 percent. About five
stocks rose for every four that retreated on the 1,018-member
gauge. Financial shares led losses after Moody’s Investors
Service cut its rating on  Portugal ’s debt to junk status.  “Portugal’s downgrade was not really a huge surprise,”
said Matt Riordan, who helps manage close to $7 billion in
Sydney at Paradice Investment Management Pty. “I don’t think
anybody’s overly concerned about the Chinese banks because the
government at the end of the day has the capacity to
recapitalize them if push came to shove. Overall, there’s a
sense of confusion at the moment, and the market is looking for
a signpost as to where exactly we are.”  Through yesterday, the index lost 2.8 percent from this
year’s high on May 2 amid concern a slowing U.S. economy,
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and China’s steps to curb
inflation will crimp earnings.  Regional Benchmarks  Japan ’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average advanced 1.1 percent,
completing its seventh day of advance, the longest streak of
increases since July 2009.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 0.2 percent.  South
Korea ’s Kospi Index added 0.4 percent.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng
Index (HSI)  declined 1 percent as China’s banks retreated.  In Seoul, Hyundai Heavy jumped 6.4 percent to 484,000 won
after saying it ruled out bidding for a 15 percent stake in
Hynix, which tumbled 5.4 percent to 26,500 won. Hyundai Heavy,
which said last month it was interested, won’t submit a letter
of intent for the stake by this week’s deadline, it said in a
regulatory filing today. Hyundai Heavy was the second-largest
boost to the MSCI Asia Pacific index, while Hynix was the No. 2
declining stock on the measure.  “Hyundai Heavy investors are cheering the company’s
correct decision not to enter into totally unrelated business,”
said Heo Pil Seok, chief executive officer of Seoul-based Midas
International Asset Management Ltd., which oversees $2.1 billion
in assets.  Commodities Increase  Material shares were among the biggest supports to the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index today, rising 0.8 percent as a group, the
third-most among the 10 industry sectors, after commodity prices
increased.  BHP advanced 0.5 percent to A$44.45. Newcrest Mining Ltd.,
Australia biggest gold producer by market value, increased 1.8
percent to A$38.15. Cnooc Ltd., the Chinese offshore oil
producer, added 0.5 percent to HK$18.30 in Hong Kong.  Crude oil for August delivery rose 0.6 percent, after
advancing 2.1 percent yesterday. Copper futures for September
delivery touched $4.354 yesterday in  New York , the highest since
April 27. The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
metals, including aluminum and zinc, rose 1.2 percent yesterday,
the highest level since May 3. Gold climbed the most in five
weeks yesterday.  In  Taiwan ,  HTC Corp. (2498)  jumped 3.3 percent before the release
of its second-quarter earnings today．The company, which was
among the biggest supports to the Asia-Pacific gauge, posted
record quarterly profit that beat analysts’ estimates after the
close of trading. Second-quarter net income more than doubled to
NT$17.5 billion ($608 million), the company said.  Financials Drop  Financial shares were the biggest drags on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index after Moody’s Investors Service cut Portugal’s
credit rating and warned that the credit outlook for China’s
banking industry could decline.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today. The S&P slid 0.1 percent yesterday, ending the index’s
five-day winning streak, after Moody’s cut Portugal’s long-term
government bond ratings to Ba2, or junk, from Baa1. Portugal is
the second euro country rated non-investment grade by Moody’s,
joining  Greece .  Bank of China slumped 3.6 percent to HK$3.72 in Hong Kong
as volume spiked to the highest since January 2009, while China
Construction Bank declined 3.2 percent to HK$6.27.  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the world’s largest listed lender
by market capitalization, slid 2.5 percent to HK$5.78. They were
the three biggest drags on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Financial stocks fell after Singapore’s state-owned
investment company, Temasek Holdings Pte, sold about HK$28.2
billion ($3.63 billion) worth of shares in China Construction
Bank and Bank of China, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Jeffrey Fang , a spokesman for Temasek, declined to comment.  ‘Strategic Investors’ Sell  “Temasek is considered a strategic investor and they’ve
sold down a large chunk,” said Diane Lin, a Sydney-based Asian
equities fund manager at Pengana Capital Ltd., which has about
$1 billion in global assets. “If major strategic investors are
getting out, minority shareholders have to ask why they’re doing
so at this very moment.”  The Chinese banks extended declines into a second day after
Moody’s said yesterday that problem loans to local governments
may exceed official estimates for the nation’s lenders, and that
the credit outlook for the industry could decline.  China , Portugal  Financial stocks also fell after Moody’s lowered its
outlook on the Portugal’s long-term government bonds on concern
the southern European country will need to follow Greece in
seeking a second international bailout.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia lost 0.6 percent to A$51.47,
while Westpac Banking Corp., Australia’s second-biggest bank by
market value, dipped 0.4 percent to A$21.89. Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s largest-listed lender by assets,
lost 0.5 percent to 410 yen in Tokyo.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.5 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 6.4 percent by the
Standard & Poor’s 500 and a drop of 0.1 percent by the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index. Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at
13.7 times estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.4
times for the S&P 500 and 11.2 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 