-- 
Aston Martin Chief Says Luxury-Car Maker Waits for ‘Right Window’ for IPO

-- B y   S t e v e n   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-07-06T17:24:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/aston-martin-plans-china-car-push-awaits-ipo.html
Aston Martin , the closely held
British sports-car maker, plans to increase sales to emerging
markets and will soon start importing cars into China, as it
keeps its sights on an initial public offering.  “We are still thinking of an IPO,” Chief Executive Office
Ulrich Bez said today at a press briefing at the carmaker’s
manufacturing center in Gaydon, west England. “We will be ready
for it if the time is right. You need to pick the right window.”  Aston Martin, sold by  Ford Motor Co. (F)  to a group of private
investors including  Kuwait ’s Investment Dar Co. in a deal
valuing it at 479 million pounds ($765 million) in 2007, is
expanding its model range to boost sales in emerging markets as
demand for luxury cars recovers. The automaker last month
introduced the Cygnet -- based on Toyota Motor Corp.’s
subcompact iQ -- as its first city car.  Aston Martin’s “emerging market growth potential has not
yet been fully explored,” Bez said. The maker of cars favored
by Prince Charles and driven by  James Bond , expects to
“imminently” get an import license for China, allowing it to
set up its own national sales arm, the German executive said.  The maker of the 125,000-pound DB9, which currently sells
its cars through independent auto retailers in  China , is
targeting a network of as many as 14 dealers in the world’s
largest auto market. Aston Martin, which delivered 4,299
vehicles for the year ended March 31, expects to sell “a few
hundred” vehicles in China this year, Bez said.  Engine Deal  “We came very late to the party in China,” Michael van
der Sande, the carmaker’s chief commercial officer, said at the
briefing. “We are now taking it much more seriously.”  As a small company, Aston Martin, didn’t have the resources
to tackle China at the same speed as others, Bez said. When he
joined in 2000, as many as 90 percent of its cars were sold in
the U.K. That’s now been reduced to 30 percent, with similar
amounts sold in the rest of Europe and the U.S.  Aston Martin, which posted earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization of 97.8 million pounds on revenue
of 509.1 million pounds in the 12 months ended March 31, has
recently extended an engine-supply deal with Ford, Bez said.  The U.K. company uses Ford V8 and V12 engines finished at a
dedicated facility located within the U.S. automaker’s plant in
Cologne,  Germany .  The carmaker last month raised 304 million pounds through
the sale of high-yield bonds. The company will use some of the
money to refinance a 200 million-pound  bank loan  and pay a 30
million-pound dividend, according to credit ratings company
 Standard & Poor’s .  The company’s models include its best-selling V8 Vantage,
and the 750-horsepower One-77 supercar that accelerates to 100
kilometers (62 miles) per hour in about 3.7 seconds.  Aston Martin is under no pressure from shareholders to
carry out an IPO and can finance current development plans
without raising cash, Bez said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  