-- 
Barroso Faults Timing, Size of Moody’s Downgrade of Portugal

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-06T11:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/barroso-faults-timing-size-of-moody-s-downgrade-of-portugal.html
European Commission President Jose Barroso comments on the decision by Moody’s Investors Service to
cut  Portugal ’s credit rating to junk and on plans in Europe for
more regulation of credit-rating companies.  Barroso, a native of Portugal, spoke to reporters today in
Strasbourg,  France . The commission is the 27-nation European
Union’s executive arm.  On the decision by Moody’s:  “I deeply regret the decision of one rating agency to
downgrade the Portuguese sovereign debt.”  “I regret it most in terms of its timing and its
magnitude. Portugal has just started to implement a medium-term
adjustment program negotiated and agreed with the European
Commission, European Central Bank and  International Monetary
Fund , a program backed by all euro-area member states.”  “Portugal’s fulfilment of the conditions attached to the
adjustment program will be assessed on a quarterly basis by the
European Commission, ECB and IMF.”  “In the absence of new facts on the Portuguese economy
that could justify the new assessment,” the moves by Moody’s
“do not provide for more clarity. They rather add another
speculative element to the situation.”  “Rating agencies are market players. As such, they are not
immune from the market cycles and mistakes and exaggerations
that come with them. We have seen this in the financial
crisis.”  In recent days, leaders in Europe “have made it clear that
European Union decisions on financial matters are based not on
market players’ positions, but on the objective assessments of
the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
International Monetary Fund.”  On possible new European rules for rating companies:  The commission “is looking into the regulation of rating
agencies to determine whether there are some measures that need
to be taken with regard to the prevention of possible conflicts
of interest and other matters.”  “Developments since the sovereign-debt crisis show we need
to take a further look at reinforcing our rules.”  “We are now completing an impact assessment with a view to
legislative proposals later this year. We plan measures to
improve the methodology and transparency of the rating of
sovereign debt to reduce excessive reliance by financial
institutions on the ratings, to further reduce conflicts of
interest and introduce more competition.”  “It’s quite strange, as I said before, that the market is
almost dominated by only three players.”  “Regarding the issue of the creation of a European rating
agency, we at the political level are not of course taking
decisions on that matter. I believe this a decision for the
markets.  “But, of course, to me it seems strange that there is not
a single rating agency coming from  Europe . It shows that there
may be some bias in the markets when it comes to the evaluation
of the specific issues of Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France, at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  