-- 
Batista’s Hotel Gloria Revamp Delayed by Two Years as Brazil Travel Booms

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-07-06T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/batista-s-hotel-gloria-runs-into-two-year-delay-amid-rio-boom.html
Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s
renovation of the historic Hotel Gloria in Rio de Janeiro has
run into a two-year delay, pushing the projected completion date
to five months before the country hosts the World Cup in 2014.  The  hotel , which opened in 1922 and hosted several
Brazilian heads of state and  Albert Einstein , was originally
scheduled to open this year.  EBX Group Co. Ltd ., Batista’s
holding company, said in a e-mailed statement it now needs until
December 2013 to finish the project after adjusting its
blueprints because of engineering difficulties. EBX bought the
hotel in 2008 for 80 million reais ($50 million).  The delay comes as Rio’s hotels are filling up at a record
pace after the fastest economic growth in two decades last year
and increased business travel. In April, 79 percent of rooms in
91 Rio hotels were booked, a record occupancy for the month,
according to survey going back to 2001 by the state of Rio’s
hotel association and the city’s service industry union. Besides
the World Cup, the city will host the 2016  Summer Olympics .  “Today if you go to Rio it may be quite hard to find a
place to sleep,” said Rafael Guaspari, vice president for
Barueiri, Brazil-based  Atlantica  Hotels International, the
nation’s second-biggest hospitality chain, with 76 hotels.
“Hotel rooms in Rio and  Sao Paulo  have gotten extremely
expensive.”  Sweeping View  When Batista bought the Hotel Gloria, mustiness and mildew
had taken hold over its once-glamorous salons, and Rio’s more-
fashionable hotels, like its wealthier residents, had moved
farther south to beachside neighborhoods like Ipanema and
Leblon. What little magic remained from the downtown landmark’s
heyday in the 1920s was its sweeping view of Guanabara Bay and
Sugar Loaf mountain. Einstein, in 1925, completed his theory of
photons in a fourth-floor suite.  When it reopens as the Gloria Palace, it will have about
231 rooms, two restaurants and a conference center, according to
the Rio-based EBX. As part of the 200 million reais renovation,
the hotel’s Art Deco façade will be restored to its original
color and design.  A former powerboat racer, Batista also plans to expand and
modernize the Marina da Gloria adjacent to his hotel to make it
ready to host nautical competitions during the Olympics. In 2008
he created a real estate company called REX to scout for
properties to develop in Rio and elsewhere.  Flood of Tourists  To absorb the influx of tourists just for the  World Cup ,
Rio needs to add 2,430 hotel units to the 19,413 units it had on
offer in 2009, according to a  study  by the Sao Paulo-based
Brazilian Forum of Hotel Operators and the local unit of
hospitality consultancy firm HVS International, which is based
in Mineola,  New York .  Even as Rio gears up to host the sporting events, the bulk
of demand today comes from business travelers drawn to the
city’s booming economy, said Guaspari. Brazil’s economy expanded
7.5 percent last year, and Rio’s growing oil, mining and asset-
management industries were a magnet for a record $48.5 billion
in foreign direct investment in 2010.  The average price for a hotel room in  Brazil  rose 22
percent in the past year to 317 reais a night in April,
according to the service union survey. Consumer prices over the
same period rose 6.51 percent. About 66 percent of the travelers
to Rio came from within Brazil.  Batista’s Companies  Batista, 54, has played a role in the city’s renaissance.
A resident of Rio, he climbed to the rank of the world’s eighth-
richest person on the Forbes magazine billionaires list by
taking public mining and energy start-ups. Each company ends in
the letter X to signify the multiplication of wealth.  Shares in his shipbuilder  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  and iron-ore miner
MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA have tumbled 8.9 percent and 23.1
percent respectively this year, while his power-plant operator,
 MPX Energia SA (MPXE3) , has rallied 61.6 percent. The benchmark Bovespa
index has declined 9 percent this year.  “There is a lot of money that will be invested in the city
for the Olympics,” said Batista in an April 2010 interview with
Bloomberg TV from his office overlooking the bay in Rio. “A lot
has to be done and planned.”  Even as demand for hotels in Rio surges, construction of
Batista’s project is halted. Scaffolding covers the building’s
facade, while cement and brick support walls are stripped of
plaster on the ground floor, leaving a skeleton where Batista
envisions one of the most modern hotels in  Latin America .  A third revision of the project’s original blueprints did
not meet landmark preservation guidelines set in 2009, said
Washington Fajardo, the sub-secretary of culture for Rio’s city
government. EBX said that a solid rock hill abutting the hotel
has also created unforeseen engineering obstacles to a planned
expansion.  “There’s obviously a lack of coordination between the
government and the developers,” said Christopher Gaffney, an
architect and a visiting professor of urbanism at the Federal
 Fluminense  University in Rio. “What you’d want is for the
developer to figure out how to get approval from the government
as fast as possible, so the hotel can get up and running and
they can make money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  