-- 
Bidvest of South Africa Gets Unsolicited Bids for Main Unit

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 
2011-07-06T19:05:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/bidvest-gets-unsolicited-proposals-for-foodservice-will-consider-offers.html
Bidvest Group Ltd. (BVT) , a South African
holding company with interests from catering to cosmetics,
received unsolicited offers for its Foodservice unit, its
biggest business. The stock surged to at least a 21-year high.  Foodservice may fetch $4 billion, according to a person
familiar with the transaction. Bidders may include  Sysco Corp. (SYY) ,
the biggest North American distributor of food to restaurants;
U.S. Food Services, owned by KKR & Co. and Clayton Dubilier &
Rice Inc.; and Brakes Group, owned by Bain Capital LLC, said the
person, declining to be identified as the matter is private.
It’s unclear whether these companies have made approaches.  Bidvest’s board formed a subcommittee to consider options
for the unit, which has “strong growth prospects,” the
Johannesburg-based company said in a statement today.
Foodservice contributed 58.4 billion rand ($8.6 billion) to the
company’s 109.8 billion rand in sales last year.  The stock jumped 4.8 percent to 162 rand by the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg, the highest since at least 1990. Bidvest
has gained 27 percent over the past 12 months, giving the
company a market value of 53 billion rand. Carol Dundas, a
spokeswoman for Johannesburg-based Bidvest, declined to comment.  ‘Outperform’  The Foodservice business may be worth 20 billion rand,
Macquarie First South Securities Ltd. said in a note to clients.
Peter Steyn, an analyst at Macquarie who co-wrote the note, has
an “outperform” recommendation on Bidvest and values the
entire company at 61 billion rand, or 192 rand a share.  A KKR spokesman in  London  declined to comment. Spokesmen
for CD&R and Bain in the U.S. didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment. Charley Wilson, a spokesman for Sysco, declined
to comment.  “The market was positively surprised by the news,” said
Mark Hodgson, an analyst at Avior Research, in a telephone
interview. The Cape Town-based research firm has had a “buy”
rating on Bidvest since March 2010. The company’s management
will probably get “a very good price.”  The company’s operations in  Europe ,  Australia ,  Asia  and
 Africa  are attractive to buyers, Hodgson said. Bidvest could use
the money from the potential sale of Foodservice to expand other
businesses, said Hodgson.  KKR and Clayton Dubilier & Rice bought U.S. Foodservice
from Dutch retailer Royal Ahold NV for $7.1 billion in 2007.
Bain bought Brakes, which is Britain’s largest supplier of
frozen foods to restaurants, from Clayton Dubilier & Rice in the
same year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  