-- 
BioVerde Expands From Biodiesel to Chemicals Derived From Plants

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-07-07T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/bioverde-expands-from-biodiesel-to-chemicals-derived-from-plants.html
BioVerde Industria e Comercio de
Biocombustiveis SA , a biodiesel company that’s building Brazil’s
biggest refinery, is seeking to become the country’s top
providers of specialty chemicals produced from renewable
sources.  The company plans to retrofit a facility in  Sao Paulo  state
that will be able to convert vegetable oils into 100 million
liters (26 million gallons) a year of chemicals for industrial
applications, BioVerde President Ailton Braga Domingues said in
an interview.  Brazilian industrial companies are spending billions of
reais a year on chemicals derived from petroleum. The country
has the land and raw materials to produce comparable products
from plants at similar prices, Domingues said.  “There’s a lack of awareness and understanding of green
chemicals in  Brazil ,” he said. “Companies are wary of using
our product, but that will change in time. The market is
potentially huge.”  The paints and solvents industry spends $3.9 billion a year
on a product that BioVerde can manufacture at the same cost, he
said, he said, and pesticide producers spend $7 billion a year
on an oil-based additive that BioVerde plans to make from soy.
The company sold last year about 15 million liters of bio-
chemicals that it produced at a plant in Taubate.  It is investing 150 million reais ($96 million) to retrofit
a chemical plant in Sorocaba, about 92 kilometers (57 miles)
from Sao Paulo, that will eventually be able to produce 400
million liters a year of biodiesel and 400 million liters of
bio-chemicals, he said. The company expects the plant to begin
producing the fuel this year, and to make 100 million liters of
chemicals in 2013.  Biggest Biodiesel Refinery  The Sorocaba plant will overtake  Archer-Daniels-Midland
Co. (ADM) ’s Rondonopolis biodiesel refinery, which is currently
Brazil’s largest with annual production capacity of 344 million
liters, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  BioVerde has sent samples of its bio-chemicals to more than
70 multinational and local companies, and four have approved its
products, Domingues said. Another 30 may approve it by year-end,
he said.  Pike Research, a Boulder, Colorado-based consulting
company, expects the world’s green chemical industry to grow to
$100 billion in 2020 from $2.8 billion now. Less than 8 percent
of those sales will be in  Latin America , according to a report
the company published in the second quarter.  The only other producer of bio-chemicals in Brazil, besides
bioplastics companies, is  Amyris Inc. (AMRS) , the Emeryville,
California-based biotechnology company that’s converting sugar
cane juice into farnesene, a hydrocarbon that can be used as an
additive for lubricants, cosmetics, fragrances and plastics.  More Profitable Chemicals  Raw materials and processing costs for making bio-chemicals
are about the same as producing biodiesel, Domingues said.
BioVerde can sell the chemicals for as much as 4 reais a liter,
compared with its current price for biodiesel, 2.42 reais a
liter. That’s about about the same price the company pays to buy
the soy oil it uses to make the renewable fuel, he said.  “The market’s new,” he said. “Once demand booms, which
will happen soon, there’ll be no point in producing biodiesel.”  Bio-chemicals in  Europe  typically sell for about 15 percent
more than comparable products made from petroleum, according to
Rene Van Sloten, director of industrial policy at the Brussels-
based non-government organization European Chemical Industry
Council.  Producing the chemicals at plants that are close to the raw
materials reduces manufacturing costs in Brazil, the world’s
second-biggest producer of soy, and may make bio-chemicals more
profitable there, he said yesterday in a telephone interview.  “Brazil has the potential to become the  Middle East  for
green chemistry,” Sloten said. “Feedstock is abundant and at
hand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  