-- 
Bank of America Loses Bid to Dismiss Homeowner Mortgage-Modification Suit

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-07-07T02:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/bofa-loses-bid-to-dismiss-homeowner-mortgage-modification-suit.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  must face
claims from homeowners who accuse the biggest U.S. bank of
failing to honor agreements for modifying their  mortgage loans ,
a federal judge ruled.  Homeowners who say they met requirements for permanent
modifications under contracts with the bank can proceed with
their cases, according a decision filed today by U.S. District
Judge Rya Zobel in  Boston . Zobel dismissed some claims against
the bank.  “The complaint meticulously details each plaintiff’s
initial and ongoing compliance with all conditions,” Zobel
wrote.  The complaint consolidates 26 cases originating in 19
states that were transferred to federal court in Boston,
according to Zobel’s decision. The homeowners sought loan
modifications from Bank of America under the federal
government’s Home Affordable Modification Program, which is
aimed to lower payments for borrowers and help them avoid
foreclosure.  “BOA’s general practice and culture is to string
homeowners along with no intention of providing actual and
permanent modifications,” according to the complaint.  Bank of America sought to dismiss the complaint.  Shirley Norton , a bank spokeswoman, said in an e-mail that the bank is
pleased that four of eight counts in the complaints were
dismissed.  ‘Second Chance’  “The decision will give hundreds of thousands of families
a second chance at permanently lower mortgage payments,” Gary
Klein, a lawyer for the homeowners, said in an interview.  The complaint separated homeowners into two groups. One
covered homeowners with loans serviced by Bank of America who
didn’t get temporary modifications, known as trial period plans,
which can lead to permanent modifications. Zobel dismissed their
claims, saying they lacked standing.  The second group covers those who obtained trial plans and
were entitled to permanent modifications at the end of the
three- or four-month period, Klein said. Under the trial
agreements, Bank of America is required to offer permanent
modifications to borrowers who adhere to the terms, according to
the complaint.  “The decision can also be used by families who have lost
their homes even though they were entitled to mortgage-
modification agreements,” Klein said.  The case is In re Bank of America Home Affordable
Modification Program (HAMP) Contract Litigation, 10-md-02193,
U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  