-- 
BofA Mortgage Settlement Raises ‘Serious Questions,’ Pension Funds Say

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-07-07T21:07:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/bofa-mortgage-settlement-raises-serious-questions-pension-funds-say.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed
$8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement could give some investors
a windfall, according to a group of public pension funds that
question the fairness of the deal.  The public funds that asked to intervene in the case are
the Policemen’s Annuity & Benefit Fund of  Chicago , the
Westmoreland County Employee Retirement System, City of Grand
Rapids General Retirement System, and City of Grand Rapids
Police and Fire Retirement System.  “Public pension funds purchased billions of dollars of
Countrywide mortgage-backed securities,” David Scott, a lawyer
for the funds, said yesterday in a statement. “They need to be
given a seat at the table to make sure that the settlement is
fair, reasonable and in the best interests of the entire class
of investors.”  Bank of America said June 29 that it had agreed to pay $8.5
billion to resolve claims by a group of 22 investors, including
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which wanted the bank to buy back soured
mortgages packaged into bonds by Countrywide Financial Corp.,
which Bank of America acquired in 2008.  Chance to Object  Investors in the mortgage-backed securities covered by the
proposed settlement have the opportunity to object to the deal
before it goes to a New York state judge for approval in
November.  In addition to the pension funds, Walnut Place LLC and
related entities have sought to intervene in the case. Walnut
Place is suing Bank of America in a separate case, seeking to
force it to buy back loans.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp., the trustee for the
mortgage-securitization trusts and a party to the deal, has
conflicts of interest “that raise serious doubts about its
motives in negotiating the settlement,” Walnut Place said in a
court filing. For example, Bank of  New York  negotiated an
indemnity from Countrywide that goes beyond the scope of what
it’s entitled to, Walnut Place said.  “As trustee, we acted and continue to act in the best
interests of all investors in the trusts,” Kevin Heine, a
spokesman for Bank of New York, said in a statement. “We believe
the proposed settlement is reasonable and have asked the court
to review and approve it after considering all of the issues.”  The public pension funds said in a filing yesterday that
their interests may not “be directly aligned” with the
investors that arranged the deal.  Conflict of Interest  “Many of the 22 corporate investors that negotiated the
proposed settlement appear to have significant ongoing business
dealings with Bank of America, raising conflict-of-interest
concerns,” the funds said.  Kathy Patrick , a lawyer for the investors that negotiated
the settlement, said seven of members of the group, including
Pacific Investment Management Co., Western Asset Management Co.
and Blackrock, manage money for pension funds.  It “defies logic” to claim they would abandon the interests
of their clients to help Bank of America, she said in a
telephone interview.  “We’re completely confident that the settlement is entirely
fair to the covered trusts both in its amount and in its
servicing improvements,” she said.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, said the
focus of the settlement is the best interests of the trusts and
not any particular class of investors.  “The agreement anticipated and provided for objections by
those pursuing separate agendas, and we look forward to those
issues being addressed by the court during its scheduled
proceedings in this matter,” Grayson said in an e-mail.  The case is In the matter of the application of The Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786/2011, New York state  Supreme Court , New
York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 