-- 
Boulud Plies Culture Vultures With $31 Wagyu, Thrilling Hush: Ryan Sutton

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/boulud-plies-culture-vultures-with-31-wagyu-thrilling-hush-ryan-sutton.html
Boulud Sud, a Lincoln Center
restaurant dedicated to the olive-infused fare of Southern
France, serves one of New York’s finest Wagyu steaks, a
Japanese-style cut of beef that has nothing to do with le Midi.  Daniel Boulud  is one of world’s great technicians of meat.
He’s from Lyon, the culinary capital of France, a rustic city
famous for charcuterie, for tripe sausage and for Paul Bocuse,
who likes to cook chicken in pig bladders. Perhaps that’s why
Boulud Sud succeeds best when it highlights the meatier side of
the Mediterranean, a region and cuisine more famed for its
seafood fare.  Rabbit porchetta is so creamy, tender and rich that it’s a
de facto substitute for foie gras; the bunny’s flavor evokes the
excellent terrines of his Bar Boulud next door.  Boulud Sud is everything Bar Boulud is not: Quiet and
comfortable.  Conversation becomes possible. Tablecloths, curtains and
carpets mute noise. Steel-framed banquettes feature yellow-and-
gray upholstery. It’s the type of joint that would have looked
fashionable in the 1970s, just like the some of the graying
crowd here, slurping harira for a spicy kick in the can.  Sensuous Infusion  That lamb meatball-studded soup, a national dish of
 Morocco , is Boulud Sud at its unrestrained best, channeling
North Africa with little lost in translation. Just as good is
the chicken tagine, the bird’s white flesh sensuously infused
with cinnamon, the skin gently crisped.  Wash it down with a bright, structured bottle of “Cuvee
Daniel” Champagne. It’s pricey at $99, but better than the one-
dimensional wines from Languedoc that the sommeliers push.  Be careful. Sometimes the French subtitles distract. Baked
cod delivers none of the promised flavors of za’atar, a
traditional Middle Eastern blend of marjoram, thyme and oregano.
It’s just a flaky, buttery fish dish, the spices of the Arab
world tamed into submission.  Where is the chilied sting in the $10 mussels? Where is the
smoky chorizo that comes with charred squid? Indiscernible, yet
no matter: The translucent mollusk holds its own against the pow
of bitter olive tapenade.  Mushy Pasta  Bottarga is advertised with a plate of (mushy) saffron
pasta. But the mullet roe’s expected orange hue, briny chew and
metallic finish are non-existent.  The Cote D’Azur is just a short drive from the Italian
Riviera. If only Boulud didn’t insist (just like other
upstanding Frenchman) on overcooking noodles. Still, texture is
a small price to pay for homemade orecchiette; the little ears
sop up the rich juices of tomato-braised goat.  Boulud Sud is a lovely restaurant, but this Lyonnaise chef
needs to make the flavors of the Mediterranean sing out and pop
as they should.  Sea urchin, typically the musty, jiggly pot-de-creme of the
sea, is for beginners here, its clean flavors overwhelmed by
crab and a Triscuit of sorts.  Soupe de poisson is geared to the entry-level eater too.
The dish is often an austere broth of fish stock, saffron,
aromatics and Pernod. Boulud whips it into a froth and adds
whole cherry tomatoes. The flavor is somewhat subdued and
purists will balk, but it’s still a pretty great soup.  Bland ratatouille came with a mealy, overcooked egg. It
should never have left the kitchen.  Wolfish  Better than boring rouget is loup de mer ($62 for two), sea
bass cooked in salt for impeccable seasoning and wrapped in vine
leaves for an intoxicating, almost bitter perfume. Pine nuts and
olive oil add sweetness. Outstanding.  Follow up with that Wagyu steak -- American Kobe has come a
long way in recent years. It’s an intensely marbled cut of silky
steak. The $31 top round (just a few tiny slices) boasts a
clean, meaty flavor, like perfectly braised short rib, except
with a medium-rare temperature.  Boulud Sud’s desserts wouldn’t be out of place at the $200-
per person flagship Daniel. Except these sweets are $14 or less.
Grapefruit givre is a frozen shell of the citrus fruit, crammed
with juicy segments, sorbet, sesame mousse and rose loukum, a
Turkish-style gelee. The complex affair is topped with halvah-
flavored cotton candy. It’s a stunning paradigm of  France ’s
South, in all its tasty, multicultural glory.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Affordable; most dishes under $33.  Sound Level: Conducive to talk, under 70 decibels.  Date Place: Yes.  Inside Tip: Zucchini chips with pesto dip are a must.  Special feature: Take the bread home. It’s that good.  Will I be back? Yes.  Boulud Sud is at 20 West 64th Street, near Broadway.
Information: +1-212-595-1313;  http://www.danielnyc.com   
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak
up, please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn
because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 