-- 
Boxer Proposes Two-Year, $109 Billion U.S. Surface Transportation Bill

-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 
2011-07-06T21:20:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/boxer-proposes-two-year-109-billion-u-s-surface-transportation-bill.html
Barbara Boxer , the California
Democrat who chairs the Senate public works committee, said she
will propose a two-year, $109 billion bill to pay for U.S.
highway and other construction projects.  The House version of the bill will call for $35 billion a
year in spending over six years, John Mica, the Florida
Republican who chairs the House transportation committee, said.  Their competing proposals, described in separate briefings
for reporters in Washington today, set the stage for a debate on
how to fund infrastructure projects at a time when Republicans
want to reduce  government spending , and the Highway Trust Fund,
which pays for highway and mass transit projects, is on course
to become insolvent next year.  “A two-year bill is a recipe for bankrupting the  trust
fund ,” Mica said.  The Senate committee wanted a six-year bill and plans to
propose the shorter measure to maintain existing funding levels,
Boxer said today. The two-year bill needs $12 billion in
additional funding to reach the $109 billion total, she said.  Money for the Senate bill could be moved from defense
spending, Boxer said.  “We spend $12 billion a month in Iraq and  Afghanistan ,”
Boxer said. “All we are looking for here is $12 billion over
two years.”  ‘Cards Dealt Me’  The House adopted a resolution in April that limits the
amount of money spent on transportation projects to what is in
the Highway Trust Fund. The transportation committee’s proposal
had to stay within those parameters, Mica said.  “I have to live with the cards dealt me,” Mica said.  The House resolution results in a 36 percent reduction in
transportation spending, Boxer said. That cut would cause the
loss of 500,000 highway jobs and an additional 100,000 transit
jobs, she said.  “Unless the committee acts to change it, that cut becomes
very real,” Boxer said.  The House transportation committee proposal would send an
unspecified amount of money from the highway fund to the states
for use in infrastructure banks, Mica said. The money would be
allocated by formula in a way similar to how Highway Trust funds
are allocated, he said.  If a state didn’t have an infrastructure bank it couldn’t
receive money, and any unused money would be sent back to the
trust fund, he said.  More details of the proposal will be unveiled in Washington
tomorrow, he said.  Obama Proposal  President  Barack Obama  has proposed a $556 billion, six-
year transportation plan without saying how he would pay for it.
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  has proposed $167.9
billion over the same period and restricting spending to what
the Highway Trust Fund receives in fuel taxes.  Mica has said he is opposed to any bill less than six years
in length and has said in jest that he would “beat up” anyone
who suggests a shorter term. He said today that his bill will
limit spending to estimated revenue of the trust fund
supplemented by expanding a Department of Transportation loan
program and public-private partnerships.  The Highway Trust Fund faces insolvency next year after six
years of declining balances, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office . Obama and Republicans have ruled out a gas-tax
increase and have suggested making up the shortfall by
attracting more private-sector funding.  Gas Tax  Congress has added $34.5 billion to the trust fund from the
general fund since 2008 because incoming revenue couldn’t pay
for existing projects. The federal gasoline tax was last raised
in 1993 and stands at 18.4 cents a gallon. The decline results
from improvements in vehicle fuel-efficiency and not adjusting
the tax for inflation.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which is the largest
business-lobbying group and opposes most tax increases, and
Obama’s federal deficit commission have backed a 15-cent-a-
gallon fuel-tax increase.  Congress passed its last long-term highway funding
legislation in 2005. Funding has continued through a series of
extensions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in  Washington  at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  