-- 
BP-Reliance Deal Said Likely to Get Approval From India Cabinet Next Week

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-07-07T10:51:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/bp-plan-to-acquire-7-2-billion-of-reliance-assets-said-close-to-approval.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s plan to buy stakes in 23 oil
and gas blocks in India operated by  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  for
$7.2 billion may get cabinet approval next week, an oil ministry
official with knowledge of the matter said.  The oil ministry has recommended that the deal go through
and referred it to the cabinet because of the large investment
involved, the official, who asked not to be identified, told
reporters in New Delhi yesterday.  BP wants to tap demand in  Asia ’s second-biggest energy-
consuming nation and announced the partnership with Reliance
Industries on Feb. 21. BP plans to acquire a 30 percent stake in
each of the Reliance blocks, including KG-D6 off  India ’s east
coast, the nation’s biggest gas deposit, where output has fallen
because of technical difficulties at the reservoir.  “Reliance is having problems raising production from the
KG-D6 field and getting BP as a partner should remedy that,”
D.K. Aggarwal, chairman of SMC Wealth Management Services Ltd.,
said by telephone from New Delhi. “A straightforward approval
helps Reliance immensely.”  Reliance rose 2.1 percent to 870.70 rupees at the close in
Mumbai, the biggest gain in two weeks. The stock has dropped 18
percent this year, compared with a 7 percent decline in the
benchmark Sensitive Index. BP gained 0.5 percent at 11:39 a.m.
in London trading.  Boosting Output  Reliance, controlled by billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani ,
is seeking BP’s technology and expertise to increase output from
the field, which has dropped to about 50 million cubic meters a
day from a peak rate of 60 million set in June last year.  “After the government approvals for the Reliance-BP
partnership, the KG-D6 reservoirs will be jointly assessed to
address the technical issues in ramping up production,” Ambani
told shareholders on June 3.  Mumbai-based Reliance’s net income grew at the slowest pace
in six quarters in the three months ended March 31 after gas
output dropped.  The deal between Reliance and BP has no “loose issues,”
India’s Oil Minister S. Jaipal Reddy said Feb. 22.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED) ’s proposed takeover of Cairn India
Ltd., operator of the nation’s largest onshore oil deposit, was
approved by the cabinet last week with conditions, more than 10
months after the deal was announced.  BP’s proposed acquisition has been referred to the Cabinet
Committee on Economic Affairs,  Press Trust of India  reported
yesterday, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.  The $7.2 billion will be paid in the year ending March 31,
Chairman Ambani said Feb. 21. Reliance has received $2 billion
from BP, the Indian explorer said in an April 21 statement.  BP and Reliance will also form a venture to market gas,
according to the Feb. 21 statement. Future performance payments
and investments could increase the size of the deal to $20
billion, BP said that day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  