-- 
Brazil Transport Minister Steps Down on Corruption Allegations

-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-07-07T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/brazil-transport-minister-quits-on-corruption-allegations.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff ’s
government saw its second minister resign in a month amid
corruption charges yesterday.  Transport Minister Alfredo Nascimento resigned four days
after two of his top aides quit, one was suspended, and one went
on official vacation in the wake of an article in “Veja”
magazine that alleged irregularities in the granting of
contracts. The Transport Ministry on  July 5  suspended for 30
days its auctions to award contracts for public works and
services.  Nascimento is a member of the Party of the Republic, which
is allied with Rousseff’s ruling coalition in Congress. The
party has 40 members in the 513-seat lower house and seven in
the 81-seat Senate.  The resignation shows that Rousseff’s relationship with her
allies is likely to be more “fraught with tension” than that
of her predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , as she tries to
rein in spending, said  Christopher Garman , a director for  Latin
America  at Eurasia Group, a Washington-based political risk
group.  Paulo Sergio Passos was named acting transportation
minister, Social Communications Minister Helena Chagas told
reporters yesterday in Brasilia.  Rousseff aims to ramp up investment in transport
infrastructure while simultaneously controlling spending to cool
the fastest inflation since 2005. The resignation is a sign that
she’ll keep a close eye on how her allies manage their
ministries, Garman said.  ‘Blind Eye’  “She’s not going to turn a blind eye to overpricing and
overinflating costs,” Garman said, speaking by phone from
 Washington . “Her government is going to be held accountable for
its capacity to overcome some of these infrastructure
bottlenecks. And the Transport Ministry is key.”  Federal prosecutors are investigating Nascimento’s 27-year-
old son, Gustavo Morais Pereira, who saw a company he founded
increase in value to 50 million reais ($32 million), two years
after being founded with capital of 60,000 reais,  O Globo
newspaper  reported yesterday, citing documents from the federal
prosecutor in Amazonas state.  Pereira’s construction firm, Forma Construcoes, did
business with S.C. Carvalho Transportes e Construções, a company
that benefitted from contracts awarded by the Transport
Ministry, the Rio de Janeiro-based newspaper said.  Nascimento said he will cooperate with any investigation,
according to the e-mail sent by the Transport Ministry.  On June 7, Rousseff’s Cabinet chief,  Antonio Palocci ,
resigned amid allegations he used his position to enrich
himself, depriving Rousseff of one of her closest allies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  