-- 
Buffett Said to Join Bid for Citigroup’s Consumer-Lending Unit

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-07-06T19:39:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/buffett-said-to-join-bid-for-citi-lending-unit.html
Billionaire  Warren Buffett  has joined
a group seeking to buy  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s consumer-lending unit,
said two people with knowledge of the talks.  Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  has teamed with
Centerbridge Partners LLC and  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK)  to bid for
the business formerly known as CitiFinancial, said the people,
who spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks with New
York-based Citigroup are private. Buffett has said he’s looking
for acquisitions and has $41.2 billion in cash to back his offer.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54, tagged
CitiFinancial and other troubled holdings for sale after the
bank’s $45 billion bailout in 2008. Now known as OneMain, the
unit’s pretax losses since 2009’s second quarter total about
$1.3 billion, and people briefed on the bidding said in March
the bank valued it at about $2 billion, net of liabilities.  “Citigroup needs to get a fresh start and they need to get
this off of their backs,” said  Michael Yoshikami , chief
investment strategist at  YCMNET Advisors , a wealth management
firm in Walnut Creek,  California , that holds Berkshire and
Citigroup shares. Berkshire’s plan is “to buy something that
the marketplace perceives as damaged, but they’ve got enough
capital strength to be able to weather the storm.’’  OneMain lends money for purposes including auto repairs and
remodeling kitchens, according to its  website . Founded in 1912
as Commercial Credit, it now provides service at 1,300 U.S.
branches nationwide, according to the bank.  Itchy Finger  Buffett, 80, is regarded as one of the most successful
investors after building Berkshire through acquisitions into an
insurance and industrial conglomerate. In February, he told
investors his “trigger finger is itchy” for takeovers after
cash holdings at Berkshire swelled.  Leucadia has invested before with Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire, including a joint venture that bought the servicing
and mortgage-lending business of bankrupt Capmark Financial
Group Inc. Leucadia and Berkshire also invested together in
Finova Group Inc. in 2001.  Run by CEO Ian Cumming and President Joseph Steinberg,
Leucadia acquired stakes in New York investment bank  Jefferies
Group Inc. (JEF) , Australian mines, California’s Napa Valley
vineyards, an Idaho timber company and a casino in Biloxi,
Mississippi.  Distressed Investments  Centerbridge, a New York private-equity firm with about
$17 billion under management, often buys the debt of troubled
companies and sometimes converts the holdings into equity as
part of a recovery plan. Centerbridge was among acquirers of
Extended Stay Inc. after it filed the largest bankruptcy by a
U.S. hotel business.  The Wall Street Journal reported on Buffett’s interest in
OneMain late yesterday. He didn’t respond to an inquiry sent to
his assistant,  Carrie Kizer , and Laura Ulbrandt, a Leucadia
spokeswoman, declined to comment. Citigroup’s Elizabeth Fogarty
said she couldn’t comment, and Centerbridge’s Sam Riter didn’t
respond to an e-mail and phone call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 Dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  