-- 
Burundi Investment May Grow as Much as 17% This Year on State Incentives

-- B y   D e s i r e   N i m u b o n a
-- 
2011-07-06T06:31:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/burundi-investment-may-grow-as-much-as-17-this-year-on-state-incentives.html
Investment in Burundi may increase as
much as 17 percent this year after the government introduced
incentives to attract more private capital.  Investment may grow to 300 billion francs ($241.3 million)
from 257 billion francs last year, said Eric Ngendahayo, a
spokesman for the  Burundian Investment Promotion Agency . In the
first five months of this year, the country received 103 billion
francs, Ngendahayo said in an interview yesterday in Bujumbura,
the capital.  Burundi has removed levies on land acquisition; granted a
tax credit on investments of at least 100 million francs that
create at least 10 permanent jobs for its citizens; reduced
corporate taxes based on the number of Burundians employed and
removed value-added tax on imported goods to be used in projects
of at least 500 million francs, he said.  “We call all other investors to come to Burundi because we
still have many sectors to invest in,” he said.  Burundi is rebuilding its economy after a decade-long civil
war that killed 300,000 people. Fighting broke out in 1993 when
the country’s first democratically elected president was
assassinated. The East African nation, one of the world’s
poorest, relies on coffee to generate two-thirds of its exports
and the industry is the main source of income for about 800,000
households, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Food, Mining  Burundi receives about 40 percent of its investment from
foreign sources, mainly the five-nation  East African Community 
that groups the country with Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and  Rwanda ,
Ngendahayo said. Their main interests are food-processing and
mining, while domestic investors prefer tourism and construction
projects, he said.  Among the foreign investors in Burundi are Surestream
Petroleum Ltd., the closely held U.K.-based explorer that is
searching for oil in the country, Ngendahayo said.  Surestream has been exploring for oil for the past two
years and is “almost” ready to start identifying locations for
drilling, the company said in February.  Burundi’s economic growth rate is expected to climb to 4.5
percent in 2011 and 4.8 percent in 2012, from an estimated 3.9
percent last year, the IMF said in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Desire Nimubona in Bujumbura via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 