-- 
GE, Fujitsu Back Gillard’s Australia Carbon Plan as Coal Industry Opposes

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-07-06T06:47:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/businesses-back-australia-carbon-plan-as-gillard-boosts-campaign.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Fujitsu Ltd. (6702) 
backed Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s bid to initiate
carbon trading to cut emissions in the developed world’s biggest
polluter per capita.  The companies are two of 55 who signed a letter sent to
Gillard last night from the Carbon Markets & Investor
Association supporting her plan for an emissions trading system
to start in 2012. Coal producers today said they will start a
public campaign against policies they say will cost the industry
A$22 billion ($23.6 billion).  “Australia is one of the top 20 countries in the world in
terms of emissions and has the highest per capita emissions of
almost any country in the world,” said Anthony Hobley, board
member of the investor association, in the letter. “If
Australia does not do this it allows others to do nothing.”  Gillard, the least popular prime minister in 13 years,
yesterday told parliament she would be “wearing out my shoe
leather” to reverse record low public support for climate
measures in the world’s biggest coal exporter. She is due to
announce on July 10 a start price for carbon, the deadline for
open trading and compensation for companies and households.  Shares of steelmakers, among Australia’s biggest emitters,
rose today.  Bluescope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Australia’s biggest steelmaker,
rose 6.1 percent in Sydney trading to A$1.39 and  Onesteel Ltd. (OST) 
rose 6.2 percent to A$2.05.  Climate Change  Minister  Greg Combet 
would not comment when Bloomberg contacted his office.  Coal Mine Closures  The Australian Coal Association today reiterated the plan
would cause the closure of 18 coal mines, costing 4,700 jobs.  “We will be telling the story to all Australians,” ACA
executive director Ralph Hillman told the National Press Club in
Canberra today without giving details of plans for advertising.  Hillman said any plan to address climate change should
occur in phases, shield exporting polluters and Australia should
act in concert with major trading partners.  Independents Tony Windsor, Rob Oakeshott,  Andrew Wilkie  and
the Greens party, which has one member in the lower house, have
said they will support the plan if it meets their conditions.
Gillard needs the four votes from non-Labor Party members to get
legislation through parliament’s lower house.  Gillard’s satisfaction rating fell to 28 percent in a June
28 Newspoll opinion survey, matching the low for then-Prime
Minister John Howard after he proposed a tax increase in 1998
that saw his majority cut in the next election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  