-- 
HTC Profit Exceeds Estimates on Sales of Desire, Thunderbolt Smartphones

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-07-06T08:20:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/htc-s-second-quarter-net-income-beats-estimates-on-sales-of-smartphones.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-largest
smartphone maker, posted record quarterly profit that beat
analysts’ estimates, fueled by demand for handsets that run on
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  Second-quarter net income more than doubled to NT$17.5
billion ($608 million), the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said
in a statement today. The average of 16 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg was for profit of NT$16.3 billion.  Revenue surpassed analyst estimates for a third straight
quarter, helped by sales of the Desire HD, Sensation and
Thunderbolt smartphones. The results may ease concern over
intensifying competition, which drove HTC to its biggest monthly
drop in almost two years and led brokers such as Macquarie Group
Ltd. to cut their ratings on the stock.  “Intensified competition is always used as an excuse for
bear analysts to sell HTC,” Lu Chialin, who rates the stock
“buy” at Samsung Securities Co. in  Hong Kong , wrote in a July
4 report. “HTC smartphones are constantly ranked among the top-
five sellers in the U.S. and European markets, with market
positions trending up.”  HTC climbed 3.3 percent to close at NT$1,095 in Taipei
today before the earnings announcement, extending this year’s
gain to 22 percent. In June, HTC shares declined 21 percent, the
largest one-month decline since August 2009.  Short-interest ratio on the stock, which measures investor
bets that the share price will decline, climbed to 2.9 percent
at the close of trade yesterday, the highest since January.  Revenue  Second-quarter revenue more than doubled to NT$124.4
billion, HTC said today, reiterating figures reported earlier in
the week. That’s more than the NT$118.9 billion average of 20
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, and ahead of its own
NT$120 billion forecast.  Operating income, which measures profit from its main
business of making and selling phones, more than doubled to
NT$19.2 billion, ahead of the NT$18.7 billion average of 11
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net income beat estimates for a
sixth straight quarter, according to Bloomberg data.  Shipments met the company’s 11 million-unit target, Chief
Financial Officer Winston Yung said in an interview July 4. Yung
declined to provide third-quarter guidance ahead of an
investors’ conference call on July 29.  Revenue is expected to climb to a record NT$134 billion,
and net income to NT$18.5 billion this quarter, according to the
average of 16 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are very confident. I think we have launched a few
products which will drive momentum all over the world,” Yung
said July 4.  Twenty six of 35 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg advise
investors to “buy” the stock, while eight say “hold” and one
has a “sell” rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  