-- 
HTC to Acquire Chip Designer S3 Graphics, Securing Patents in Apple Fight

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-07-06T11:29:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/htc-to-buy-s3-graphics-securing-patents-in-apple-fight-1-.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  agreed to purchase S3
Graphics Co. giving Asia’s second-largest smartphone maker
access to patents as it defends against infringement lawsuits
from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   HTC will pay $300 million cash for the Fremont, California-
based provider of image-compression technology used in Nintendo
Co.’s Wii and Sony Corp.’s PlayStation machines, Chief Financial
Officer Winston Yung said in Taipei today. The sellers are  VIA
Technologies Inc. (2388) , which has a 12.5 percent stake, and WTI
Investment International Ltd., a holding company controlled by
VIA and HTC’s Chairwoman Cher Wang.  Owning S3 Graphics may boost HTC in its legal battle
against Apple, which last year sued the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based
company for patent infringements. S3 Graphics last week won a
ruling against the maker of iPhones and iPads regarding two
patents for compression technology.  “Buying a patent portfolio will be very useful to us,”
Yung said, declining to comment on specific lawsuits.  HTC climbed 3.3 percent to close at NT$1,095 in Taipei
today before the company announced the acquisition and second-
quarter earnings. The shares have gained 22 percent this year.  VIA, a Taipei-based designer of chips used in computers,
will receive $147 million from the sale and recognize a $37
million gain, it said in a statement today. WTI will get $153
million, with the difference in values explained by the two
owners holding different classes of share, HTC’s Yung said.  Apple Vs HTC  S3 Graphics was unprofitable last year and has a book value
of about negative $9 million, he said today. HTC will acquire
235 patents, mostly related to graphics technology, as part of
the transaction.  Apple filed a suit against HTC in a Delaware district court
in June last year, adding to an earlier complaint against the
company. The Cupertino, California-based company in March 2010
also asked the U.S. International Trade Commission to block
imports of HTC phones, alleging infringement of patents related
to the implementation of operating systems.  HTC denied the charges and fired back with its own
lawsuits.  Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t
answer calls to her mobile phone after business hours.  S3 Graphics, which VIA acquired in 2002, this month won a
ruling by ITC Judge James Gildea who determined that Apple
violated two of its patents, while another two were not
infringed. The findings are subject to review by the six-member
commission, which can block imports of products that infringe
U.S. patents.  VIA has climbed 14 percent this year to NT$35.70 at the
1:30 p.m. close of trade in Taipei today before the
announcement. The stock has dropped about 90 percent in the past
ten years as competition from  Intel Corp . and Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. eroded sales and earnings.  The acquisition comes after HTC reported record quarterly
profit, fueled by demand for handsets that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android operating system.  Net income more than doubled to NT$17.5 billion in the
second quarter, the company said today. Revenue beat analyst
estimates for a third straight quarter, helped by sales of the
Desire HD, Sensation and Thunderbolt smartphones.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised HTC on the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  