-- 
Cal Ripken Is Familiar With Pressure Jeter Faces in Runup to 3,000 Hits

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-06T04:05:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/cal-ripken-is-familiar-with-pressure-jeter-faces-in-runup-to-3-000-hits.html
Cal Ripken Jr. can identify with
 Derek Jeter ’s pursuit of 3,000 hits perhaps more than anyone and
said he vividly remembers the pressure he faced 11 years ago as
he chased the same milestone.  Jeter is four hits shy of becoming the 28th player in Major
League Baseball history to collect 3,000 for his career. The  New
York Yankees ’ shortstop and captain collected two hits last
night in his second game since returning from a calf injury that
sidelined him for three weeks.  “The focus and pressure of the end result of just trying
to get a hit ever-so-slightly changes your thinking and your
approach at the plate,” Ripken said yesterday during a
telephone interview. “I did want it to be over with.”  Ripken, 50, began the 2000 season nine hits away from 3,000
and got off to a slow start, totaling six hits over the
 Baltimore Orioles ’ first nine games. He then broke out with
three hits on April 15, 2000, to reach the benchmark at the age
of 39.  “I would imagine if he had his druthers he’d say, ‘Let’s
get this thing over with really quickly and we’ll celebrate it
for a minute and then move on,’” Ripken said of Jeter.  Like Jeter, Ripken spent his entire career with one team,
playing 21 seasons with the Orioles, including 16 at shortstop
before moving to third base. Jeter, 37, is in his 17th season
with the Yankees and could become the 10th player to top 3,000
hits while spending his career with only one franchise.  Excitement and Relief  Following his 3,000th hit -- a single in  Minnesota  --
Ripken said he felt a mixture of excitement and relief when he
shook hands with Orioles first base coach Eddie Murray, his
former teammate who joined the 3,000-hit club in 1995.  “When you’re running down to 3,000 hits, people are in
anticipation of each hit, so in your mind you’re thinking of
getting a hit as opposed to being nice and free and easy,” said
Ripken, who made the American League All-Star team 19 times
during his career. “Certainly (Jeter) is superhuman in many
ways, but I’m sure he’s human in the fact that every once in a
while it creeps into his mind and it does create a little bit of
pressure just to get to the finish line.”  The three major-leaguers to reach the milestone over the
past decade are Rickey Henderson in 2001, Rafael Palmeiro in
2005 and Craig Biggio in 2007. Jeter is seeking to become the
first player to collect his 3,000th hit with the Yankees.  Injury Layoff  Jeter’s chase was delayed three weeks because of a calf
injury and he’s gone 2-for-10 since returning from the disabled
list two days ago. He’s hitting a career-low .257 over 272 at-
bats this season.  “It’s hard enough to get one hit let alone six, so I’m not
thinking about that,” Jeter said in a televised interview after
last night’s 9-2 win over the  Cleveland  Indians. “I’m just
trying to go one at a time.”  Jeter beat out an infield single down the third base line
in his first at-bat yesterday. He hit a double to the
centerfield wall during the second inning and then went hitless
in his final four plate appearances.  The Yankees complete their three-game series today in
Cleveland and then return to New York for four games against the
 Tampa Bay Rays  before baseball’s All-Star break.  While the pursuit of records and individual achievements
can take a player out of his routine, Ripken said Jeter has the
benefit of having played in pressure-filled situations such as
playoff and World Series games in  New York .  “He’ll draw from those things and deal with this,” said
Ripken. “I’m also sure he’ll be relieved once he’s past it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  