-- 
Murdoch Backs Brooks as Cameron Promises Phone-Hacking Probe

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-07-06T16:56:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/cameron-calls-for-phone-hacking-inquiry.html
Rupert Murdoch  stood by News
International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks after U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  promised an inquiry into phone-
hacking at the News of the World, the newspaper she once edited.  “Allegations of phone-hacking and making payments to
police with respect to the News of the World are deplorable and
unacceptable,” Murdoch, the chairman of New York-based News
Corp., said in an e-mailed statement today. ‘Our company must
fully and proactively cooperate with the police in all
investigations and that is exactly what News International has
been doing and will continue to do under Rebekah Brooks’s
leadership.”  British media published further allegations today that the
newspaper tapped the voicemails of murder victims and their
families and paid police officers for stories.  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  and General Motors Co. canceled advertising in the
tabloid. The revelations came as the government reviews the
company’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5 billion) bid for the 61
percent of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  it doesn’t own.  “We do need to have an inquiry, possibly inquiries, into
what has happened,” Cameron told lawmakers at his weekly
question-and-answer session in Parliament in London today.
“It’s absolutely disgusting what has taken place. I’m sure
everyone in this house, indeed this country, will be revolted.”  ‘Set of Abuses’  Opposition Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband  called for
Brooks to step down and demanded that the takeover be referred
to the  Competition Commission . “These events show a systematic
set of abuses that show the exercise of power without
responsibility in our country,” he told lawmakers.  Cameron said the government would adhere to the law in
ruling on the BSkyB takeover. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  is
completing a consultation on the deal this week.  News Corp. (NWSA) 
already owns four of the U.K.’s largest newspapers.  “We have followed absolutely to the letter the correct
legal processes,” Cameron told lawmakers. “This government will
behave in a proper way.”  Any decision on BSkyB that failed to follow the law “would
be judicially reviewed and struck down in the courts,” Cameron
said. “We’d look pretty for a day and useless for a week.”  Cameron’s spokesman, Steve Field, told reporters that the
takeover review can only take into account the issue of media
plurality.  Shares Fall  News Corp. fell as much as 96 cents, or 5.3 percent, to
$17.17 for its steepest decline in almost four months. The stock
was down 4.5 percent to $17.32 at 12:17 p.m. in  New York . BSkyB,
the U.K.’s biggest pay-television broadcaster, declined 18
pence, or 2.1 percent, to 827 pence in London, valuing the
company at 14.5 billion pounds.  Murdoch’s statement, his first on the new allegations, is
“confirmation of how seriously he’s taking” the phone-hacking
scandal, Doug McCabe, an analyst at  Enders Analysis  in London.
“The point is he said something.”  Cameron’s statement pre-empted an emergency debate in the
Commons on a call for a public inquiry into phone-hacking.  Chris Bryant , a Labour lawmaker who is one of more than two dozen
people suing the newspaper, opened the debate by calling for the
takeover to be “put on ice” while the investigation continues.  Another Labour lawmaker,  Tom Watson , urged News Corp. to
tack action against  James Murdoch , Rupert’s son and the head of
the company’s European operations.  ‘Personal Authorization’  “James Murdoch should be suspended from office while the
police investigate what I believe is his personal authorization
to plan the cover-up of this scandal,” Watson said. James
Murdoch and Brooks “are not fit and proper persons to control
any part of the media in this country,” he said.  Brooks, 43, has denied any knowledge of phone-tapping.  Lloyds, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, said today it
will pull a planned advertisement for its Halifax unit in the
News of the World. GM’s Vauxhall division suspended its
advertising after Ford took similar action yesterday.  London ’s Metropolitan Police said in a statement today that
documents provided by News International indicate that
inappropriate payments might have been made to some officers and
that the force would investigate. News Corp. appointed Ken Macdonald, a former director of public prosecutions, to advise
it on co-operation with the police, News International said in
an e-mailed statement.  E-Mails  The  BBC  reported that News International passed e-mails to
the police that showed  Andy Coulson , another former News of the
World editor, authorized payments to police officers worth tens
of thousands of pounds.  Coulson, who resigned from the newspaper in 2007 when a
reporter was jailed for phone hacking, went on to work for
Cameron as director of communications. He quit in January, just
before News International began handing information to the
police. He has always denied any knowledge of illegality.  The four-year-old phone-hacking scandal widened this week
after previously centering on celebrities, politicians and
sports stars.  The  Guardian newspaper  reported July 4 that a private
detective working for the News of the World deleted messages
from the voicemail of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler in 2002,
when Brooks was editor.  Terror Victims  Detectives investigating phone-hacking have contacted the
parents of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, two girls murdered
in eastern  England  in 2002, the Press Association newswire
reported yesterday. Families of the victims of the July 7, 2005,
terror bombings in London were also told they may have been the
target of phone hacking. Graham Foulkes, whose son David died,
told the BBC he was contacted by police yesterday.  “We are no longer talking here about politicians and
celebrities. We are talking about murder victims, potentially
terrorist victims, having their phones hacked into,” Cameron
said. “There is a major police investigation under way. It is
one of the biggest police investigations currently under way in
our country.”  News Corp. is already facing a trial in January, when a
court will decide how much the company should pay in damages to
Bryant and four others alleged to be phone-hacking victims,
including actor Jude Law. News International has apologized and
agreed to pay about 100,000 pounds to settle claims brought by
actress  Sienna Miller  and another 20,000 pounds to former soccer
player Andy Gray.  Liberal Democrat lawmaker  Simon Hughes  said he would ask
Ofcom, Britain’s media regulator, this week to consider if News
International is fit to hold a broadcasting license. “It would
mean the act of merging BSkyB would not be able to go ahead,”
Hughes told lawmakers.  Ofcom said in an e-mailed statement it is “closely
monitoring the situation and in particular the investigations by
the relevant authorities into the alleged unlawful activities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  