-- 
Canadian Doctor to Tiger Woods, A-Rod Admits Bringing Steroids Into U.S.

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/canadian-doctor-to-tiger-woods-a-rod-pleads-guilty-in-steroids-to-case.html
A Canadian doctor whose patients
previously included golfer  Tiger Woods  and baseball player  Alex Rodriguez  pleaded guilty in federal court to a charge of
bringing steroids and other illegal substances into the U.S.  Anthony Galea, 51, pleaded guilty yesterday to a charge of
misleading a U.S. agency by introducing misbranded drugs into
the U.S., according to a law clerk for U.S. District Judge
 Richard Arcara  in federal court in Buffalo.  In a complaint filed in May 2010, federal investigators
said Galea, a sports medicine physician from Toronto, had
traveled to the U.S. since 2007 to treat athletes, although he
wasn’t licensed to do so. The misbranded drugs included
nutropin, a human growth hormone, and actovegin, a substance
derived from calf’s blood, according to an indictment filed in
October.  “The defendant admitted to not only bringing unapproved
substances into the country repeatedly, but that he also
practiced medicine without a license, supervised criminal
conduct of others and obstructed justice through the actions of
one of the defendant’s Canadian employees,” U.S. Attorney
William J. Hochul Jr. in Buffalo said in a statement.  The athletes that Galea treated with the drugs included
three present and former  National Football League  players who
weren’t named in the complaint.  Prison, Fine  Galea will be sentenced on Oct. 19, the judge’s clerk said.
He faces as long as three years in prison and a fine of as much
as $250,000, plus restitution of $275,000, prosecutors said in
the statement.  Golf star Woods was interviewed by federal investigators
about Galea, his agent said last year. Galea had treated him
while he was recovering from knee surgery in 2008. Woods said at
a news conference last year he didn’t receive any performance-
enhancing drugs from Galea.  New York Yankees third baseman Rodriguez told investigators
for  Major League Baseball  that he was seen by Galea while
recovering from 2009 hip surgery, according to the  New York 
Times. The treatment didn’t include banned substances,
Rodriguez, who admitted in February 2009 to using performance-
enhancing drugs from 2001 to 2003, told the newspaper last year.  The case is U.S. v. Galea, 10-cr-00307, U.S. District
Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  