-- 
Canada May Building Permits Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-07-06T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/canada-may-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
May building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  The value of building permits rose 20.9% to $6.4
billion in May, following a 21.5% decline in April. Higher
construction intentions, particularly for commercial
buildings in Quebec and Alberta and multi-family dwellings
in Ontario, were behind the advance.  Following two consecutive monthly declines, permits in
the non-residential sector rose 50.9% to $2.7 billion.
This gain came mainly from higher construction intentions
in the commercial component in Quebec, Alberta and
Ontario.  The value of permits in the residential sector
increased 5.3% to $3.7 billion in May, following a 12.1%
decline in April. The increase occurred largely as a
result of advances in the value of multi-family dwellings
in Quebec and Ontario.  The total value of building permits increased in every
province except Nova Scotia.  Non-residential sector: Gains in all three components  Building construction intentions increased in every
component of the non-residential sector in May.  The value of commercial building permits increased
81.0% to $1.9 billion, the highest level since May 2008.
The increase followed two consecutive monthly declines,
and was the result of higher construction intentions among
many types of buildings in many provinces, including
retail outlets, office buildings, laboratories, hotels and
restaurants.  The industrial component increased 22.5% to $343
million, following two consecutive monthly declines.
 Alberta  and Ontario registered the largest gains with
higher construction intentions in manufacturing plants.
The largest decreases occurred in Quebec for utility
buildings, where intentions had recorded large gains in
April.  The value of institutional building permits rose 3.0%
to $506 million, following a 61.9% decline in April. The
advance was largely attributable to construction
intentions for educational institutions in six provinces,
led by Ontario.  Residential sector: Intentions up for multi-family permits  Intentions for multi-family dwellings increased 23.1%
to $1.6 billion, following a 31.0% decrease in April.
Gains were posted in six provinces, led by Ontario and
Quebec. In contrast, British Columbia recorded the largest
decrease in May.  The value of building permits for single-family
dwellings decreased 4.9% to $2.1 billion, following two
consecutive monthly gains. In May, seven provinces
reported declines, led by Ontario and Alberta. The three
provinces posting increases were Quebec, Newfoundland and
Labrador, and Manitoba.  Municipalities across  Canada  approved 17,022 new
dwellings, up 10.8% from April. The gain was the result of
a 24.9% increase in multi-family dwellings to 10,393
units. The number of single-family dwellings declined 5.8%
to 6,629 units.  Highest gains in Quebec, Ontario and Alberta  The total value of building permits increased in nine
provinces in May, led by Quebec.  Quebec posted the largest advance, up 45.8% to a record
high $1.7 billion, following a decline in April. The
increase was attributable largely to higher intentions for
commercial buildings and multi-family dwellings.  Ontario and Alberta also recorded significant gains.
Ontario's advance was the result of higher intentions for
multi-family dwellings and commercial buildings. Alberta's
gain was attributable to commercial and industrial
buildings, which more than offset declines in the
residential sector.  Nova Scotia posted declines as a result of lower
intentions for multi-family dwellings and commercial
buildings, which more than offset gains in the
institutional and industrial components.  Permits up in over half of the census metropolitan areas  The total value of permits rose in 19 of the 34 census
metropolitan areas.  Montreal posted by far the biggest gains, followed by
Toronto and  Edmonton . The increase in Montreal came mostly
from commercial buildings and multi-family dwellings. In
Toronto, the advance was largely the result of higher
construction intentions for multi-family dwellings,
commercial and industrial buildings. In Edmonton, the
increase was principally the result of higher intentions
for office buildings.  The largest declines occurred in Vancouver and Calgary.
They originated from lower intentions, particularly for
the residential sector and commercial buildings.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents
seasonally adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by
removing the effects of seasonal variations.  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the
population are very small, and their levels of building
activity have little impact on the total.  The value of planned construction activities shown in
this release excludes engineering projects (for example,
waterworks, sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census
metropolitan area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/ Quebec ) is
divided into two areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated
for the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  