-- 
Harper To Be Targeted by Government Union on Labor Rights in Next Election

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-07-07T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/canada-government-union-targets-conservative-defeat-in-next-election.html
Canadian federal workers will oppose
any effort by Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  to cut government
programs and restrict labor rights by staging a four-year
campaign to defeat the governing  Conservative Party , the head of
the country’s largest public sector union said.  John Gordon, national president of the  Public Service
Alliance of Canada  representing about 180,000 federal employees,
said in a Bloomberg News interview that his union will become
more “strategic” and rely less on  strike action . One of its
tactics will be to mount a public relations campaign against
Conservative lawmakers, he said yesterday.  “We have to focus much more attention on the politics of
it rather than action and the traditional labor way” such as
strikes, Gordon said in an interview at Bloomberg’s offices in
Ottawa. The “best outcome” would be a “labor-friendly”
government following the next election, he said.  Harper’s government has made it “very clear” that its
plan to find C$4 billion ($4.14 billion) in annual savings to
balance the federal budget will mean some programs will be
eliminated or scaled back, Gordon said. Harper’s decision last
month to use back-to-work legislation to end stoppages at Air
 Canada , the country’s largest airline, and Canada Post also
suggests the Conservatives will be “taking on” public-sector
unions following their election victory in May, he said.  Find Savings  Treasury Board President  Tony Clement , the minister
responsible for the public service, said in an e-mailed
statement that the government’s plan to find savings will take
place “without sacrificing the essential services upon which
Canadians rely,” such as transfers to individuals and to other
levels of government.  “I have made a point to sit down with union heads,
including PSAC, to answer their questions,” Clement said in the
statement sent to Bloomberg by Heather Hume, his press
secretary. “My message to the unions and to those they
represent has been clear: let’s work together.”  Labor conflict in Canada comes amid increasing tension in
the U.S. between public-sector unions and state governments.
Massachusetts lawmakers this month passed a budget that includes
a provision limiting collective bargaining by municipal workers
on health care. The move echoes efforts in Wisconsin and  Ohio ,
where Republicans put greater restrictions on negotiations by
government employees to narrow deficits.  Harper, in power since 2006 without control of the
legislature, won a majority of seats in Parliament for the first
time in May 2 elections.  Air Canada Strike  Last month, the Canadian government passed a law to end a
three-week work stoppage at the country’s public-owned postal
agency and introduced separate back-to-work legislation to deal
with a strike at Air Canada. The airline reached a tentative
deal with employees before the legislation was voted on by
lawmakers.  “It tells me there’s going to be trouble on the labor
front during this four-year term, and I think they have a plan
to strip the collective bargaining powers of unions,” Gordon
said.  While a general strike is one of the options the union may
consider, Gordon said labor action could also backfire.  “If you want to shoot all your bullets at the same time,
then you have no ammunition left,” he said. “You have to be
much more strategic.”  The union has asked its members to lobby lawmakers in their
constituencies, a strategy that could be especially effective in
districts where Conservatives won by a narrow margin, Gordon
said. The union will also try to sway public opinion by calling
attention to any services that are cut as a result of the
government’s efforts to eliminate the deficit.  “We are going to let the community know what their”
lawmakers have done, Gordon said. “There were a number of them
that didn’t win with too many votes,” he said, referring to
Conservative lawmakers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 