-- 
Canada’s Dollar Depreciates After China Raises Benchmark Interest Rates

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-07-06T21:05:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/canada-s-dollar-depreciates-after-china-raises-benchmark-interest-rates.html
Canada ’s dollar fell versus its U.S.
counterpart, touching the lowest in almost a week, after the
Chinese government increased  interest rates  to cool its economy,
sapping demand for higher-yielding currencies.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, rose for a second
day against the euro as traders sold the 17-nation common
currency after Moody’s Investors Service cut Portugal’s credit
rating to junk yesterday.  “ China  tapping the brakes will weigh on Canada’s
exports,” said  Michael Leavitt , an institutional-derivatives
broker at  MF Global Canada Co . in  Montreal . “China is a major
commodity importer, so any slowing will reduce the loonie’s
attractiveness.”  The Canadian currency dropped 0.2 percent to 96.53 cents
per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, compared with 96.34 cents
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0360. It rose 0.6 percent
to C$1.3823 per euro.  Investors should short the euro against the Canadian dollar
because “lingering uncertainty” over peripheral countries will
drag down the 17-nation common currency,  Valentin Marinov  and
Andrew Cox, strategists at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a note to
clients today.  Euro Position  The position, which is a bet that the euro will depreciate
in value, could “prove increasingly attractive” in light of
events later this week, including a rate decision by the
European Central Bank tomorrow and jobs reports in both the U.S.
and Canada on Friday, they wrote.  “The potential for further Canadian dollar strength is
high if data continues to surprise to the upside in a similar
manner to the building permits release earlier this morning,”
Marinov in London and Cox in  New York  wrote.  The nation’s building permits rose 20.9 percent in May to a
seasonally adjusted C$6.43 billion, four times faster than
economists forecast, regaining most of the previous month’s drop
on increased non-residential work and record activity in  Quebec ,
 Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa.  Canada’s economy added 15,000 jobs in June, after boosting
payrolls by a net 22,300 positions in May and 58,300 in April,
according to the median forecast of 23 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg before Statistics Canada data on July 8. The jobless
rate held at 7.4 percent, according to the survey.  Jobs Reports  U.S. payroll jobs climbed by 100,000 workers after a 54,000
gain in May, the smallest in eight months, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before Labor
Department data July 8. The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  The ECB will increase its main refinancing rate to 1.50
percent from 1.25 percent, according to all 55 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Swaps traders are betting the ECB will raise
its target rate by 81 basis points over the next 12 months.  “What you’re seeing is a euro move, so euro selling off
against the dollar, against Swiss franc, against sterling,”
said Peter Kinsella, a senior foreign-exchange strategist at
Commerzbank AG, by phone from  London . “It’s a euro move ahead
of the ECB meeting tomorrow. Market participants are taking
profit in long euro positions before the meeting. It’s a case of
buy the rumor sell the fact.” A long position is a bet that an
asset will increase in value.  Canada’s dollar fell against the Swiss franc and the yen
after China raised benchmark interest rates for the third time
this year as inflation accelerated to the fastest pace since
July 2008. The one-year deposit rate rises to 3.5 percent from
3.25 percent, effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank of China
said on its website today. The one-year lending rate will
increase to 6.56 percent from 6.31 percent.  ‘Risk Off’  “Risk is off the table, given the move by China to raise
interest rates,” said  Neil Mellor , a currency strategist at
Bank of New York Mellon Corp., by phone from London. “Markets
had already come under a little pressure overnight because of
the downgrade of Portugal by Moody’s. When risk is taken off the
table, people buy the  U.S. dollar  back.”  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing the benchmark 10-
year’s yield down three basis points to 3.04 percent. The price
of the 3.25 percent security maturing in June 2021 rose 22 cents
to C$101.77.  Canada sold C$3.5 billion of five year bonds today, drawing
an average yield of 2.309 percent, according to a statement on
the Bank of Canada’s website. There were C$8.7 billion in bids
for the 2.75 percent bonds maturing in September 2016, for a
bid-to-cover ratio of 2.48 times, compared with a five-auction
average of 2.52 times.  Demand for the five-year bonds was “reasonably firm,”
Mark E. Chandler, head of Canadian currency and rates strategy
at Royal Bank of Canada’s  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, wrote
in an e-mail. The bonds yielded about one-quarter basis point
below where they were trading before the auction, Chandler said.  The euro weakened against all except one of its 16 major
peers and the greenback strengthened against all except two
after Moody’s cut  Portugal ’s credit rating to junk status,
stoking speculation the nation will need a second bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  