-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Falls on Inventory Estimates, Mild Weather

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-07-06T17:39:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/canadian-natural-gas-falls-on-inventory-estimates-mild-weather.html
Canadian natural gas fell on
predictions that U.S. inventories will show increases and that
milder weather will persist, lowering demand for the fuel to
power air-conditioners.  Canadian gas prices, which mostly follow U.S. counterparts
on the benchmark  New York Mercantile Exchange , dropped as
analysts estimated that a U.S. government report tomorrow will
show an increase in gas stockpiles of 81 billion cubic feet for
the week ended July 1. That’s 5 billion cubic feet more than in
the same period last year.  “There just doesn’t appear to be that type of a heat dome
to cause a big draw on natural gas,”  James Cordier , founder and
portfolio manager at Optionsellers.com, said in a telephone
interview from Louisville, Kentucky, where he is based.
“They’re falling off because the rallying on hot weather was
overdone.”  Alberta gas for August delivery dropped 7.75 cents, or 2.2
percent, to C$3.49 per gigajoule ($3.43 per million British
thermal units) as of 12:50 p.m.  New York  time, according to  NGX, 
a Canadian Internet market. September gas fell 8.25 cents. Gas
traded on the exchange goes to users in Canada and the U.S. and
is priced on TransCanada Corp.’s Alberta system.  Natural gas on the Nymex dropped 10 cents to $4.263 per
million Btu as of 12:54 p.m.  Normal Temperatures  Most of the Northwest, the Rocky Mountains, the Northeast
and the Great Lakes region down through Tennessee will have
normal temperatures until July 10,  MDA EarthSat Weather  of
Gaithersburg, Maryland, said in a forecast to clients.  Below-normal temperatures along the West Coast and normal
temperatures west of a line from  North Dakota  to  New Mexico  will
arrive from July 11 to July 15, MDA said.  Heating demand in Seattle will be 32 percent above normal
until at least July 13, according to Belton, Missouri-based
forecaster Weather Derivatives.  Power plants use 30 percent of U.S. gas supplies, and
industrial consumers account for about 28 percent, according to
Energy Department estimates.  The high temperature in  San Francisco  today may be 70
degrees Fahrenheit (21 Celsius), 1 degree below normal,
according to AccuWeather Inc. of State College, Pennsylvania.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta  system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 15.69 billion
cubic feet as of 11:30 a.m. in New York.  Gas Flows  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.73 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the  Chicago  area, the
daily flow rate was 1.57 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 1.01 billion cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.81 billion cubic feet today, about 62
percent of its capacity of 2.9 billion.  Gas at the Alliance Pipeline delivery point near Chicago
fell 10.35 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $4.383 per million Btu as
of 1:18 p.m. on the  Intercontinental Exchange . Alliance is an
express line that can carry 1.5 billion cubic feet a day to the
Midwest from western  Canada .  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, gas fell 6.87 cents to $4.2267.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 