-- 
Carlsberg Slips on Report Russia May Tighten Beer Regulation

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-07-06T12:17:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/carlsberg-slips-on-report-russia-may-tighten-beer-regulation-1-.html
Carlsberg A/S, the world’s fourth-
biggest brewer, slid in Copenhagen trading after a Russian
newspaper said that country’s government may ban sales of drinks
containing more than 0.5 percent alcohol at night and in kiosks.  Carlsberg, the owner of  Russia ’s biggest brewer, fell as
much as 24 kroner, or 4.2 percent, to 546 kroner, marking its
lowest intraday price since March 17. The shares were down 2.8
percent to 554 kroner as of 2 p.m. local time.  Russia’s lower house of parliament, the State Duma, has had
the first reading of a proposal to regulate the sale of alcohol
and has conditionally approved the bill, Vedomosti reported
today. The proposal is subject to two reviews this week,
according to the newspaper.  The bill proposes that the sale of beverages stronger than
0.5 percent alcohol be banned from 11 p.m. to 8 a.m., and that
vendors at stalls and kiosks be prohibited from selling
alcoholic drinks at any time, Vedomosti reported.  “The proposed tightening of the legislation will present a
challenge to the breweries,” Jens H. Thomsen, an analyst at
Silkeborg, Denmark-based Jyske Bank A/S, wrote today. “However,
these are challenges that can be solved.” Thomsen has a “buy”
rating on Copenhagen-based Carlsberg.  Russian Brewer  Carlsberg, which sells brands including Tuborg and
Kronenbourg, got about 45 percent of its profit from eastern
 Europe  last year and is the owner of Baltika, Russia’s biggest
brewer.  Russia is clamping down on alcohol sales in order to
address burgeoning consumption. The government raised beer taxes
200 percent in January 2010, leading to a slump in sales.
Carlsberg’s volume in Russia rose 28 percent in the first
quarter of this year as it rebounded from the effect of the tax
increase and the company said in February that it expected the
Russian beer market to expand 2 percent to 4 percent.  A spokesman for Carlsberg declined to comment on today’s
Vedomosti report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  