-- 
Mark Cavendish Wins Tour de France 5th Stage, Hushovd Keeps Yellow Jersey

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-07-06T22:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/cavendish-of-u-k-wins-fifth-stage-of-tour-de-france-hushovd-stays-leader.html
Mark Cavendish  of Britain yesterday
won a crash-filled fifth stage of the Tour de  France  in a sprint
finish for his 16th career stage victory in cycling’s top race.  Cavendish, 26, of the HTC-Highroad team, surged through to
victory in a crowded finish after a 102-mile trip between
Carhaix and Cap Frehel in Brittany. Philippe Gilbert, who won
the first stage, was second and Jose Joaquin Rojas third. Thor Hushovd of  Norway  kept the race-leading yellow jersey.  “That was hard, that was real hard at the finish,”
Cavendish told Eurosport, adding that he thought at one point
he’d lost his victory chance amid buffeting from other riders.
“I thought I’ll just go and save some points. The last couple
of hundred meters my legs were going, going.”  Today’s sixth stage is the longest of the Tour, 140 miles
from Dinan to Lisieux.  On a stage marked by several accidents, Tom Boonen crashed
along with his Quick Step teammate Gert Steegmans, and Sylvain Chavanel and Bradley Wiggins were involved in a pile-up.  Other riders including defending champion  Alberto Contador ,
his Saxo Bank colleague Nicki Sorensen -- hit by a motorbike --
and Yaroslav Popovych also took tumbles on a stage marked by
undulating, twisty roads and sidewinds.  “It was very nervous, and because of that you get a lot of
crashes, because there are 200 riders who want to be in front,”
Hushovd told reporters.  After early breakaways were caught by the main group of
riders, Thomas Voeckler and Jeremy Roy broke away with 18 miles
to go, building a lead of more than a minute.  Voeckler attacked again and went clear with 2 miles to go,
only for the pack to envelop him in the final kilometer.  Riders including Tony Martin, Edvald Boasson Hagen and
Gilbert accelerated but couldn’t go clear, allowing Cavendish to
strike.  Contador Target  Race favorites Contador,  Andy Schleck  and  Cadel Evans 
finished in the pack yesterday, and were given the same time as
the winner. That left Contador 1 minute, 30 seconds behind
Schleck and 1:41 adrift of Evans in the overall standings. Evans
is a second behind Hushovd, and three seconds ahead of Frank
Schleck.  Spain ’s Contador is seeking his fourth Tour win in five
years. He was acquitted by the Spanish cycling federation
earlier this year after testing positive for banned stimulant
clenbuterol in winning last year’s race. The federation accepted
his argument that eating contaminated meat caused the elevated
readings.  Cycling’s ruling body,  Union Cycliste Internationale ,
appealed the decision and the Lausanne, Switzerland-based Court
of Arbitration for Sport will make a final decision after the
race, which ends July 24 in Paris.  Janez Brajkovic of the RadioShack team is out of the race
after being hospitalized as a result of one of yesterday’s
crashes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in  London   at
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  