-- 
Chicago Firing-Range Ban Teetering; City Revamps Ordinance

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-07-06T20:44:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/chicago-ban-on-firing-ranges-blocked-in-preliminary-appeals-court-ruling.html
A  Chicago law  banning firing ranges
in the third-largest U.S. city probably harms gun owners’ Second
Amendment rights and must be temporarily blocked, a federal
appeals court ruled.  The Chicago-based court’s decision today comes in a case
challenging a city ordinance restricting handgun possession to
inside the home, mandating an hour of range training as a
prerequisite to gun ownership and barring those ranges from
operating within its borders.  The Responsible Gun Ownership Ordinance was passed by the
city council after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down Chicago’s
outright ban on civilian handgun possession in 2010. A lower
court judge last year denied the challengers’ request for an
order blocking enforcement of the firing-range prohibition.  “The plaintiffs are entitled to a preliminary injunction
against the firing-range ban,” U.S. Circuit Judge Diane Sykes
said in the  ruling . “The harm to their Second Amendment rights
cannot be remedied by damages, their challenge has a strong
likelihood of success on the merits, and the city’s claimed harm
to the public interest is based entirely on speculation.”  The lower court decision was rendered by U.S. District
Judge Virginia M. Kendall in October. The lawsuit was filed in
August by the Illinois State Rifle Association, gun-owner
advocacy group the Second Amendment Foundation, three  Chicago 
residents and Action Target Inc., a Provo, Utah-based business
that designs and builds shooting ranges.  New Ordinance Passed  As the appellate panel issued its ruling, Chicago aldermen
passed a new measure permitting the ranges, while restricting
them to enclosed spaces located within districts zoned only for
manufacturing and at least 1,000 feet from areas zoned for
residential use, schools, houses of worship or other ranges.  “Swift and decisive action from the City Council was
essential to preserve the gun-control and safety elements of the
ordinance,” Mayor  Rahm Emanuel  said in a press statement. “The
action taken by the council today ensured that gun ranges in
Chicago will be regulated as part of a thoughtful plan that is
focused on the safety of all Chicagoans.”  “Chicago has to obey the Constitution. It has to respect
Second Amendment rights,” plaintiffs’ attorney David Sigale of
suburban Glen Ellyn,  Illinois , said today in a phone interview.  Acknowledging the city council’s new measure, he said it
allows shooting ranges “on the surface but has so many
restrictions and fees and prohibitions” that it still may run
afoul of the U.S. Constitution’s Second Amendment, which says
the right to bear arms shall not be infringed.  “I think the city would be well advised to take a real
hard look at what they just did,” Sigale said.  The case is Ezell v. City of Chicago, 10c5135, 7th U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  