-- 
China’s Seven-Year Bond Draws Least Demand in 10 Months on Cash Crunch

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-06T04:52:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/china-seven-year-bond-sale-draws-least-demand-in-10-months-on-cash-crunch.html
China ’s sale of seven-year bonds
today drew the least demand in more than 10 months, reflecting a
cash crunch after the central bank boosted lenders’ reserve-
requirement ratios in each of the last eight months.  The issuance drew bids for 1.55 times the 30 billion yuan
($4.6 billion) on offer, the lowest since a sale of similar-
maturity notes on Aug. 18, according to traders at firms
participating in government debt auctions. The seven-day
repurchase rate, which measures interbank funding availability,
has more than doubled in the past month to 7.41 percent.  “Demand for bonds has declined because of the cash
shortage,” said Guo Caomin, a bond analyst at Industrial Bank
Co. in  Shanghai . “The shortage didn’t ease even though banks no
longer need to hoard cash to meet quarter-end loan-to-deposit
requirements. That was unexpected.”  The securities were issued at an average yield of 3.7
percent, matching the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
yesterday. The highest winning-bid yield at the sale was 3.74
percent, the traders said.  The yield on seven-year  government bonds  was 3.71 percent
in the secondary market yesterday, according to Chinabond, the
nation’s biggest debt clearing house.  The  finance ministry  in January published a list of 59
financial firms required to bid at its debt sales, including
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd., Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd., Bank of China Ltd., China Construction Bank Corp.,
China Citic Bank Corp., Postal Savings Bank of China, Industrial
Bank Co., Guotai Junan Securities Co. and BOC International
(China) Ltd.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: James Regan, Simon Harvey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 