-- 
China’s Cotton Demand May Weaken on High Costs, Dreyfus Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-06T06:42:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/china-s-cotton-demand-may-weaken-on-high-costs-dreyfus-says.html
Cotton demand from  China , the world’s
biggest consumer, may weaken as high costs encourage consumers
to switch to cheaper synthetic fibers, said Chen Tao, chairman
of Louis Dreyfus (Beijing) Commodities Trading Company Ltd.  The stockpiling policies by China may keep cotton at about
20,000 yuan ($3,093) a metric ton, Chen said in an interview at
a conference in Dalian. Prices at this level may make cotton a
“luxury,” not something cheap and affordable to everyone, Chen
said. “It’s like when juice is too expensive, people drink tea,
and when tea gets expensive, they’ll have to do with just
water,” he said.  Cotton in Zhengzhou has gained 37 percent in the past year,
rising to a record 34,870 yuan in February. State reserves will
buy domestic cotton from Sept. 1 at 19,800 yuan per ton to
support prices, the National Development and Reform Commission
said in March.  If the policy is successfully carried out, it may
effectively support market prices of the natural fiber at this
level, Chen said. Cotton demand may also weaken because Chinese
yarn producers “rapidly” expanded output as profits rose after
demand for textiles recovered from the 2008 financial crisis,
Chen said. “So many textile producers went shopping for
machines at the time, supplies ran out,” he said.  Still, prices in China have fallen 35 percent to 22,660
yuan a ton from a record in February on concern a slowdown in
economic growth in China may damp demand and as crops in  India 
expand. Imports fell 27 percent in May, according to customs
data.  Cotton futures for December delivery gained 0.9 percent to
$1.1657 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York . Yesterday, the
price touched $1.1502, the lowest level since Nov. 30. In June,
the fiber dropped 12 percent, the third straight decline, as
demand ebbed in China.  January futures in Zhengzhou gained 0.6 percent to 22,765
yuan a ton at 2:35 p.m. local time.  Excessive investment in production capacity and slowing
demand this year are forcing producers to cut output or face
bankruptcy, eroding demand for cotton, Chen said.  The current environment “doesn’t bode well for demand for
cotton,” Chen said. If synthetic fiber becomes a permanent
replacement for cotton, “China may no longer have much of a
cotton shortage in a few years,” Chen said.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Bloomberg News in Shanghai at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  