-- 
China May Pause After Third Rate Move as Wen Bets Inflation ‘Controllable’

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-07T08:46:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/china-may-pause-after-third-rate-move-as-wen-bets-inflation-controllable-.html
China  may limit interest-rate
increases for the rest of this year as Premier Wen Jiabao bets
that a slowing economy will help tame inflation after five moves
since mid-October.  A quarter-point boost to one-year lending and deposit rates
was announced late yesterday, effective from today. That may be
the last for 2011, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co., HSBC
Holdings Plc and Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Nomura Holdings
Inc. predicts one more move, this quarter.  The ruling Communist Party may delay further increases
because of signs of weakness in manufacturing and export demand
and to avoid attracting more speculative capital to the fastest-
growing major economy. The central bank moved before a report
scheduled for July 9 that may show consumer prices rose more
than 6 percent last month, the biggest gain since July 2008 and
a likely peak for this year, according to JPMorgan.  “This is likely to be the last hike of the year,” said Yu Song, a Hong Kong-based economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
citing a risk of “hot money inflows” and “the negative impact
on real economic activities.” Yu and colleague Helen Qiao were
jointly ranked the top forecasters of the Chinese economy in a
Bloomberg analysis of estimates over the two years through May.  The Shanghai Composite Index slid 0.6 percent to 2,794.27
after yesterday’s announcement. Twelve-month non-deliverable
yuan forwards were little changed at 6.3933 per dollar.  Pork Prices  Higher rates may help to curb consumer expectations that
inflation will accelerate after a surge in pork prices drove a
12 percent jump in food costs in May from a year earlier. Slower
economic growth and more favorable year-earlier comparisons may
help to limit price gains in the second half.  Inflation accelerated to 6.2 percent in June, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Consumer prices rose 5.5 percent in May, mainly driven by food.  China’s main monthly economic releases were brought forward
to July 9 from a previous plan for a July 15 publication in the
latest attempt by officials to stop selective disclosure of
indicators that can disrupt markets. The National Bureau of
Statistics said last month that one of its employees was under
investigation on suspicion of leaking data. The bureau said
today it will release its main monthly data the ninth of each
month from now on.  The benchmark one-year lending rate will increase to 6.56
percent, the People’s Bank of China said on its website
yesterday. The one-year deposit rate rises to 3.5 percent from
3.25 percent, while demand deposit rates are unchanged.  Remain Low  London-based Capital Economics Ltd. said that benchmark
rates remain low “relative to the pace of economic growth” and
predicted more gains in lenders’ reserve requirements as the
central bank seeks to control liquidity. Bank of America said
rate increases may resume in 2012.  Xia Bin, an academic adviser to the People’s Bank of China,
said yesterday’s move was “not enough.”  Signs that the economy is cooling include a slide in a
manufacturing gauge to a 28-month low in June. Export orders and
output grew at a slower pace, according to the purchasing
managers’ index released by the statistics bureau and China’s
logistics federation.  Stocks and commodities fell yesterday on prospects for
weaker global demand after the central bank moved and Moody’s
Investors Service cut  Portugal ’s debt rating to junk.  Global Rates  China’s increase takes effect on the day the  European
Central Bank  is expected to raise its benchmark rate a quarter
point to 1.5 percent. Elsewhere, emerging markets have outpaced
advanced economies in raising rates, with  South Korea , India,
 Chile ,  Brazil  and  Poland  doing so in the past month.  In India, the repurchase rate is 7.5 percent, while the
U.S. Federal Reserve has indicated no imminent plan to lift its
benchmark from near zero.  Premier Wen said last month that the government may fail to
meet a full-year inflation target of 4 percent after the rate
was 5.2 percent for the first five months.  “I see difficulties in reaching the full-year inflation
target,” Wen said in comments in  London , broadcast on June 27
by Hong Kong-based Cable TV. “But it still can be kept below 5
percent after the efforts we have made.”  Hazards for the economy include a credit squeeze for small
and medium-sized companies and concern that the nation may face
a wave of bad loans from record lending that fueled a recovery
from the effects of the global financial crisis.  Debt Risks  The nation’s first audit of local-government debt found
liabilities of 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.7 trillion) at the end of
2010 and repayment risks.  Standard & Poor’s  has cut the outlook
for the nation’s property developers to “negative” on the
likelihood of slower sales and lower prices.  The nation’s economy is in a “bit of a bubble” after
officials waited too long to stem inflation, billionaire
investor  George Soros , 80, said June 14 at a conference in Oslo.  Wen wrote in the Financial Times on June 24 that efforts to
stem inflation have worked and the pace of consumer-price
increases will slow. “The overall price level is within a
controllable range and is expected to drop steadily,” the
premier said.  Besides raising rates, officials have boosted banks’
reserve requirements to record levels, restricted mortgages and
home purchases, and allowed gains by the yuan against the
dollar. A stronger currency can limit inflation by cutting
import costs.  Yum! Prices  Companies facing inflation pressures in China include Yum!
Brands Inc., the owner of the KFC fast-food chain. The company
said June 1 that rising wage costs will be offset by the boost
from more people being able to afford its meals.  Analysts including  Wang Tao , of UBS AG, say China is
unlikely to suffer a “hard landing.” May data showed the
economy maintaining momentum, with industrial production rising
13 percent and an acceleration in fixed-asset investment. A
government plan to build millions of low-cost homes may also
sustain growth.  The  World Bank  forecasts China’s gross domestic product
will expand 9.3 percent this year, compared with 8 percent for
 India , 2.6 percent for the U.S. and 1.7 percent for the euro
area.  --Zheng Lifei, Victoria Ruan, Huang Zhe, Nerys Avery in Beijing,
Sophie Leung and Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong , and Wei Lu in  New
York . Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Simone Meier.  To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at +852-2977-6603 or
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  