-- 
China Raises Rates to Counter Inflation

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-06T11:42:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/china-raises-interest-rates-for-third-time-to-curb-accelerating-inflation.html
China  raised benchmark  interest rates 
for the third time this year, adding to efforts to cool the
world’s fastest-growing economy after inflation accelerated to
the quickest pace since 2008.  The one-year lending rate will increase to 6.56 percent
from 6.31 percent tomorrow, the People’s Bank of China said on
its website. The one-year deposit rate rises to 3.5 percent from
3.25 percent.  Stocks fell and oil and copper extended losses on concern
that a slowdown in China will add to headwinds for the global
economy. JPMorgan Chase & Co., HSBC Holdings Plc and Bank of
America Merrill Lynch said the increase may be the last this
year as analysts forecast that inflation will moderate after
probably exceeding 6 percent last month.  The government’s appetite for tightening may “wane in
response to evidence that the economy is slowing,” said  Mark Williams , a London-based economist with Capital Economics Ltd.
Inflation “is now widely expected to decline in the second half
of the year,” he said.  Oil lost 0.6 percent to $96.28 a barrel in  New York .
Copper for three-month delivery fell 0.5 percent to $9,494 a
metric ton on the  London  Metal Exchange. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index declined and  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index futures also slid.  Wen’s ‘Difficulties’  A government report next week will show that China’s
inflation accelerated to 6.2 percent in June, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
Consumer prices rose 5.5 percent in May, the most since July
2008, mainly driven by food costs.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last month that the government may
fail to meet a full-year inflation target of 4 percent after the
rate was 5.2 percent for the first five months.  “I see difficulties in reaching the full-year inflation
target,” Wen said in comments in London, broadcast on June 27
by Hong Kong-based Cable TV. “But it still can be kept below 5
percent after the efforts we have made.”  China’s government is reining in credit after record
lending in 2009 fueled the nation’s economic rebound and
increased the risk of real-estate bubbles and bad loans.  The
nation’s first audit of local-government debt found liabilities
of 10.7 trillion yuan ($1.7 trillion) at the end of 2010 and
warned of repayment risks.  The nation’s economy is in a “bit of a bubble” after
officials waited too long to stem inflation, billionaire
investor  George Soros , 80, said June 14 at a conference in Oslo.  Property Market  Wen wrote in the Financial Times on June 24 that efforts to
stem inflation have worked and the pace of consumer-price
increases will slow. “The overall price level is within a
controllable range and is expected to drop steadily,” the
premier said.  Besides raising rates, officials have boosted banks’
reserve requirements to record levels, restricted mortgages and
home purchases, and allowed gains by the yuan against the dollar.
A stronger currency can limit inflation by cutting import costs.  Standard & Poor’s has cut the outlook for the nation’s
property developers to “negative” on the likelihood of slower
sales and lower prices. Hazards for the economy also include
power shortages, a credit squeeze for small and medium-sized
companies, and signs export demand is weakening.  Still, analysts including  Wang Tao , of UBS AG, say the
nation is unlikely to suffer a “hard landing.” May data showed
the economy maintaining momentum, with industrial production
rising 13 percent and an acceleration in fixed-asset investment.
A government plan to build millions of low-cost homes may also
sustain growth.  Yum! Brands Inc., owner of the KFC fast-food chain, said
June 1 that rising wage costs in China will be offset by more
people being able to afford the company’s meals. The  World Bank 
forecasts the economy will expand 9.3 percent this year,
compared with 8 percent for  India , 2.6 percent for the U.S. and
1.7 percent for the euro area.  --Zheng Lifei, Sophie Leung, Victoria Ruan, Paul Panckhurst,
Huang Zhe. Editors: Paul Panckhurst,  To contact Bloomberg news staff for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in  Hong Kong  at +852-2977-6603 or
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  