-- 
China to Open New Shale Areas to Tap Reserves Exceeding U.S.

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-06T04:07:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/china-to-offer-new-shale-gas-areas-this-year-to-tap-reserves-topping-u-s-.html
China , estimated to hold more gas
trapped in shale than the U.S., will open new areas to
exploration as PetroChina Co.’s parent and  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  seek
drilling technology through partnerships and acquisitions.  The government aims to sign contracts with Chinese
explorers this month to develop two blocks offered in the
country’s first auction, and a second sale is planned later this
year, Zhang Dawei, deputy director of oil and gas strategy
research at the Ministry of Land and Resources, said in a
telephone interview from Beijing yesterday.  China National Petroleum Corp., PetroChina’s parent, agreed
in June to form a venture with  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to improve
its drilling efficiency after taking 11 months to complete the
country’s first shale well.  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , the world’s
third-largest oilfield services provider,  says  it has helped U.S.
shale developers to cut drilling time to about 16 days a well.  “What they’re doing now is trying to assess the reserves
underground and see how feasible it is to extract them,” Adam
Wang, a global gas markets researcher at Cambridge Energy
Research Associates, said in a June 29 interview in Beijing. “I
don’t think China will be able to massively start producing
shale gas until after 2020.”  Chinese shale may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet of gas, or
12 times the country’s conventional natural gas deposits, the
U.S. Energy Information Administration  said  in April. China’s
“technically recoverable” reserves are almost 50 percent more
than the 862 trillion cubic feet held by the U.S., the EIA said.  Production Forecast  The two countries account for 32 percent of the world’s
recoverable shale reserves of 6,622 trillion cubic feet,
according to EIA data.  Annual shale-gas output in China may reach 20 billion cubic
meters (706 billion cubic feet) by 2020, Pan Jiping, a
researcher at the land ministry, said in a June 30 interview in
Beijing. That’s less than 15 percent of U.S. production in 2010,
EIA data show. China currently doesn’t produce any shale gas.  Overseas explorers, barred from bidding in Chinese auctions
of shale areas, are in discussions to forge local ventures.
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  BP Plc (BP/)  are in talks with China Petrochemical
Corp. and its unit  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028)  Norway’s
 Statoil ASA (STL)  is in negotiations to buy stakes in shale-gas assets
in China. Shell is currently exploring the Jinqiu block in
southwestern Sichuan province with CNPC.  Foreign companies will likely continue to be excluded from
the second auction planned for later this year, the land
ministry’s Zhang said, without giving a schedule for the sale.  Overseas Acquisitions  Chinese companies have invested in overseas ventures to
gain access to technology for drilling horizontal wells in shale
formations and to extract the fuel through hydraulic fracturing,
which uses water, sand and chemicals injected under high
pressure to break dense rock to release the gas trapped within.  Cnooc agreed in February to buy a 33.3 percent stake in
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s Niobrara shale project in Colorado and
 Wyoming  for $570 million, after paying $1.08 billion last year
for one-third of a Chesapeake shale venture in  Texas .  China offered domestic explorers four areas last month in
the country’s first auction of shale blocks. Contracts will be
signed for the Nanchuan and Xiushan blocks in southwest China
that each attracted at least three bidders, the land ministry’s
Zhang said yesterday.  Nine bids were received from companies including PetroChina,
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , Shaanxi Yanchang Petroleum
Group Co., China United Coalbed Methane Co. and Henan Provincial
Coal Seam Gas Development and Utilization Co., the ministry said
June 29.  Gas Demand  With domestic shale gas production yet to start, Chinese
energy companies are ramping up extraction of conventional
deposits and contracting liquefied natural gas supplies from
 Australia  to help meet the government’s goal of doubling the use
of gas to 8 percent of energy demand by 2015.  The world’s biggest energy consuming nation imported 11.4
billion cubic meters of gas in the first five months, almost
doubling from a year earlier, the National Development and
Reform Commission said June 13. Domestic output rose 6.7 percent
to 43.2 billion cubic meters in the same period.  China may increase the number of LNG receiving terminals on
its eastern coast to 16 by 2015 from five currently, Song
Shaoguang, vice general manager of China Huanqiu Contracting &
Engineering Corp., a unit of CNPC, said June 29.  Chinese LNG Purchases  China Petrochemical Corp. agreed in April to buy liquefied
natural gas over two decades from a project planned by
ConocoPhillips and Origin Energy Ltd. The state-owned parent of
China Petroleum & Chemical also agreed to purchase a 15 percent
stake in the Australian venture for $1.5 billion.  China National Offshore Oil Corp., Cnooc’s parent, agreed
last year to buy the fuel from BG Group Plc’s LNG development in
Queensland state. PetroChina signed a 2009 pact with Exxon Mobil
Corp. to buy the gas from the Gorgon venture led by Chevron.
Arrow Energy Ltd., acquired last year by PetroChina and Shell,
is planning another LNG project on Queensland’s central coast.  Chinese gas demand may grow more than 20 percent annually
in the next five years, and the country will rely on LNG imports
in the near term, said Thomas Grieder, an Asia-Pacific energy
analyst at IHS Global Insight based in Geneva. Plans to develop
domestic shale-gas reserves are unlikely to have an impact on
Australian LNG suppliers over the next decade, he said.  -- Wang Ying , Winnie Zhu and  Paul Gordon . With assistance from
 James Paton  in Sydney. Editors: Ryan Woo, Amit Prakash.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net ;
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Gordon in  Hong Kong  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 