-- 
Cielo Forecasts Brazil Credit-Card Fees Decline to Moderate

-- B y   J o a o   O l i v e i r a
-- 
2011-07-06T16:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/cielo-forecasts-brazil-credit-card-fees-decline-to-moderate.html
Cielo SA (CIEL3) , Brazil’s biggest credit
card company, forecasts that fees will decline at a slower pace
going forward as the industry adjusts to increased competition
after the end of exclusive contracts between card brands and
processing companies.  “Fees are stabilizing as a result of the new
environment,” said Cielo Chief Executive Officer Romulo de Mello Dias in an interview at Bloomberg’s office in Sao Paulo
this week. “Fees may fall further, but not at the same pace.”  Net fees that Cielo charges retailers to process credit
cards, known as merchant discount rate, fell to 1.22 percent in
the first quarter from 1.32 percent in the fourth and 1.45
percent before  exclusivity  contracts ended in July 2010.  Cielo is increasing volumes and other sources of revenue to
offset declining fees, Mello Dias said. Brazilian consumers use
cards for about 25 percent of their purchases, half the usage of
American consumers, according to Dias. Brazilians will keep on
switching from cash and checks to credit and debit cards, the
executive said in the July 4 interview.  Fees  accounted  for 62 percent of Cielo’s revenue in the
first quarter. Income from renting out the card processing
machines to retailers was 23 percent of revenue while
receivables prepayment accounted for 9.8 percent, according to a
report by the company, which is based near  Sao Paulo .  ‘Outperform’  Cielo fell 0.3 percent to 38.87 reais today in Sao Paulo at
12:52 p.m. The stock rose 8.1 percent this year before today,
while  Redecard SA (RDCD3)  tumbled 6.1 percent and the Bovespa Index
gained 3.6 percent.  Cielo and smaller rival Redecard were rated “outperform”
by Credit Suisse Group AG in a June 21 note to clients.
According to the bank, investors are overestimating the
potential impact of new competitors, such as Banco Santander
Brasil SA.  Because of the end of Cielo’s exclusivity agreement with
 Visa Inc (V)  and Redecard’s with  Mastercard Inc (MA)  in July last year,
new companies are entering the market, such as Banco Santander’s
 GetNet Tecnologia ;  Evalon , controlled by U.S. Bancorp and
brought to  Brazil  by Citigroup Inc; Globalpayments Inc; and
First Data Corporation.  The entrants could have at the most 15 percent of the
market in coming years, the Cielo CEO said.  “They have to build a foundation, get clients, set up
teams, processes. It takes time,” Dias said.  Macroprudencial Measures  Cielo’s present market share is 57.2 percent when compared
with Redecard only, Cielo said. The share has fallen from 59.5
percent at the time of its initial public offering, three years
ago. Cielo lost share not to lose profitability, said Dias.  Government measures to curb credit growth haven’t affected
demand for Cielo’s services and products, said Dias. They only
had an effect on credit lines longer than 12 months, which
normally aren’t offered by card payment companies, he said.  The Brazilian government is trying to cool consumer demand
by rising interest, cutting budget expenses and making  consumer
credit  more costly.  According to data compiled by Brazil’s credit card
companies’ association, the industry processed 145.2 billion
reais ($91.07 billion) in card purchases during the first
quarter. Of the total, 83.7 billion reais were credit-card
payments, 23 percent more than the same period last year. The
growth in credit-card payments was 21 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joao Oliveira in Sao Paulo at 
 joliveira4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  