-- 
Citigroup Said to Seek First Round of EMI Offers This Month

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-06T21:49:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/citigroup-said-to-seek-initial-offers-for-emi-record-label-this-month.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  plans to seek initial
bids for EMI Group by the end of July or early August, and aims
to clinch a sale of the record label in a couple months, two
people with knowledge of the situation said.  Sony Corp. (6758)  and BMG Rights Management GmbH have expressed
interest in EMI, as has Len Blavatnik, who is leading the $1.3
billion purchase of Warner Music Group, said the people, who
weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Universal Music Group  and
private-equity investor Alec Gores are also interested in EMI,
the record label of Katy Perry and Coldplay.  Citigroup, based in  New York , will provide offering
materials in the next week, once the bidders agree not to
disclose confidential EMI data, said the people. The bank took
control of EMI in February after its owner,  Guy Hands ’s Terra
Firma Partners Capital Partners, failed to meet the terms of
loans used to buy the company in 2007.  EMI announced plans to seek bids on June 20, offering a
fresh consolidation opportunity to music companies that have
struggled to turn a profit as listeners cut CD purchases. Newer
online services such as Pandora Media Inc. and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iTunes store produce less revenue for the labels.  Blavatnik, Gores and Universal Music, part of Paris-based
Vivendi SA, expressed interest in EMI last month, people with
knowledge of the situation said at the time.  BMG Rights, the music venture co-owned by Bertelsmann AG
and KKR & Co., is interested in EMI’s music-publishing business,
said one person.  Liz Young , a spokeswoman for  Sony Music Entertainment ,
declined to comment. Through a spokesman, Hartwig Masuch, chief
executive officer of Berlin-based BMG Rights, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  