-- 
CME Group Software Engineer Accused of Stealing Source Code for Start-Up

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-07-06T23:15:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/cme-group-software-engineer-accused-of-stealing-source-code-for-start-up.html
A  CME Group Inc. (CME)  employee was charged
by the U.S. with stealing  trade secrets  from the world’s largest
futures exchange for a Chinese start-up company in which he was
to hold a financial stake.  Chunlai Yang, 49, of Libertyville,  Illinois , has been in
federal custody since his July 1 arrest on a single theft-of-
trade-secrets count, punishable by as long as 10 years in
prison, according to the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation.
He appeared for a detention hearing today before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Michael T. Mason in Chicago. The hearing is scheduled to
continue on July 8.  Yang, a software engineer, has worked at CME since 2000,
the FBI said in a July 1 statement. In May, exchange security
personnel began monitoring his computer activity.  “They discovered that thousands of files had been
downloaded to his computer and some were then copied to
removable  storage devices ,” including files that were
“critical to the operation of the CME Group,” according to the
FBI.  Yang had planned to board a China-bound flight tomorrow
from Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport, the FBI said.  With an investment of $118,182, Yang was to be one of three
shareholders of a Hong Kong-incorporated business called East
China Technology Innovation Park Co., the FBI said in an
affidavit filed in court.  “CME Group places a high value on protecting its
intellectual property and trade secrets,” the exchange said
today in an e-mailed statement. “As soon as the company became
aware of and confirmed the suspicious activities of one of its
employees, CME Group cooperated with law enforcement authorities
and moved to terminate the individual’s employment.”  The exchange hasn’t found any evidence that customer,
trading or regulatory data had been compromised, it said.  Christopher Graul, a lawyer for Yang, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Yang, 11-cr-00458, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois ( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  