-- 
Coal of Africa Climbs Most in 2 1/2 Years After Getting Vele Mine Approval

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 
2011-07-06T15:59:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/coal-of-africa-s-gets-environmental-authorization-at-vele-in-south-africa.html
Coal of Africa Ltd. (CZA) , an Australian
producer of the fuel, rose the most in more than 2 1/2 years
after getting approval for its Vele project in South  Africa ,
allowing work to resume at the site after environmental concerns
led to an almost 12-month delay.  “We expect to restart within weeks rather than months,”
Chief Executive Officer John Wallington said by phone today. The
company plans to ramp up coal production to about 1 million
metric tons a year, it said in a statement earlier.  Coal of Africa’s plans to mine at Vele, about 17 miles (27
kilometers) from the Mapungubwe Hill ruins, a World Heritage
site, have been opposed by organizations concerned about the
possible impact on the area. The South African Heritage Resource
Agency and other groups have said they fear the site may be
transformed into “an industrial area” from a tourism and
nature-conservation zone.  The resolution of the authorization issue, which has
weighed on Coal of Africa’s shares “for a long time now,” is
“great news,” Evolution Securities analyst  Charles Kernot  said
in an e-mailed note to clients today. Kernot has a “buy”
recommendation on the stock.  Shares in the company rose 19 percent in Johannesburg, the
most since Oct. 30, 2008, to 9.59 rand by the 5 p.m. close in
Johannesburg, paring the stock’s decline over the past six
months to 17 percent.  Specific Conditions  Coal of Africa is “acutely aware of the sensitivity of the
area and of the significant responsibilities the approval” at
Vele brings, it said. The company, based in Perth, is required
to meet specific conditions at the site because of the
“uniqueness of the area,” it said in today’s statement,
without giving further details.  The iron-age Mapungubwe ruins, remnants of what was once
one of southern Africa’s biggest kingdoms, are on a United
Nations list of 878 heritage sites, ranging from  Australia ’s
Great Barrier Reef to Baroque cathedrals in  Latin America ,
according to  South Africa ’s environment ministry.  South Africa’s Endangered Wildlife Trust and a coalition of
seven other environmental groups will appeal the ruling, Chief
Executive Officer Yolan Friedmann said in an e-mail statement.  The environmental groups said the company has “grossly
underestimated” the amount of water it will use at the project.
Water from around the mine flows into the Limpopo River, which
provides water for citrus farmers, wildlife and cattle ranchers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Durban at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  