-- 
Colombian Peso Bond Yields Fall on Bets for Lower Food Prices

-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-07-06T19:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/colombian-peso-falls-to-one-week-low-on-china-rates-portugal.html
Colombia ’s peso bonds rose, pushing
yields lower for a second day, on bets food prices will decline
in the second half of the year amid drier weather in the South
American country.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent bonds due July 2024 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 7.82 percent at
2:54 p.m. New York time, according to the stock exchange. The
bond’s price rose 0.223 centavo to 117.422 centavos per peso.  Colombia’s consumer prices rose 0.32 percent in June from
the previous month, driven by an increase in recreation, food
and housing prices, the national statistics agency said in a
 report  yesterday. That compares to monthly inflation of 0.28
percent in May, and to the median estimate for a 0.23 percent
increase in June in a Bloomberg survey of 27 economists.  “Now that the rain subsided, we should start seeing food
prices revert in the second half of the year,” said Daniel Velandia, the head analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Correval
SA. “While inflation was higher than expected in June, the
market is showing it believes the central bank will reach its
inflation target for this year.”  The La Nina weather pattern that triggered storms and
floods, choking off farmers’ supply routes and driving up food
costs, ended in May, according to the Institute of Hydrology,
Meteorology and Environmental Studies, known as IDEAM.  The peso erased an earlier decline, gaining 0.2 percent to
1,766.18 per dollar, from 1,769 yesterday. It has jumped 3.6
percent in the past three months, the best performance among 25
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Bond Sale  Colombia yesterday sold $2 billion of 10-year dollar bonds
overseas, the nation’s first international debt sale since
winning an investment-grade rating. Colombia’s foreign credit
rating was upgraded to the lowest level of investment grade by
 Standard & Poor’s  in March, Moody’s Investors Service in May and
Fitch Ratings in June.  The  Finance Ministry  said in a  statement  yesterday that the
government will keep funds from the bond sale abroad to avoid
triggering gains in the peso. The funds will be used to pay
foreign debt obligations, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  