-- 
Colombia’s Fabricato Holds at Five-Year High on Chavez

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-07-06T20:30:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/colombia-s-fabricato-jumps-on-speculation-chavez-to-leave-office.html
Fabricato SA, Colombia’s biggest
textile maker, held at a five-year high on speculation
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  may step down from office,
helping the two countries strengthen trade agreements.  Fabricato held at 69.5 pesos, its highest level since
February 2006, after it rose by as much as 5 percent earlier.  Investors are betting that a new president may take office
before next year’s elections or that Chavez may be defeated in
that vote as he battles cancer, said  Rupert Stebbings , Colombia
director for Celfin Capital.  “There’s no question at all that in a post-Chavez scenario
in which  Venezuela  returns to normality, there’s a huge upside
for the recovery of capital,” Stebbings said in a phone
interview from Medellin. “Exports to Venezuela used to be huge,
but now basically don’t exist under Chavez.”  Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  and Chavez restored
ties last year after Chavez sent tanks to the border in 2009 in
a dispute over Colombian accusations that Venezuela was
harboring Marxist rebels. Colombia’s cross-border trade with
Venezuela plunged 65 percent to $1.4 billion last year from
2009, according to Colombia’s statistics agency.  Chavez said in a speech in Caracas yesterday that he has
“started to beat” the cancer. Nicolas Maduro, Venezuela’s
foreign minister, said in a July 2 interview on the Televen
network that Chavez will seek re-election next year.  Changes  Chavez is to announce changes to his Cabinet today,
replacing Vice President Elias Jaua with Foreign Minister
Nicolas Maduro and Defense Minister Carlos Mata Figueroa with
General-in-Chief Henry Rangel Silva, El Mundo reported, citing
unnamed government officials.  Colombia  and Venezuela are to set a timetable this month
for negotiations aimed at seeking a bilateral trade accord after
Venezuelan debts with Colombian exporters, which were aggravated
by the trade freeze, were paid down to $250 million, Colombia
trade minister Sergio Diaz-Granados told the daily Portafolio
July 4.  Fabricato, which has a Venezuelan affiliate, Fabritexca,
sent as much as 20 percent of its exports to Venezuela before
the diplomatic crisis, according to a source in the company who
couldn’t be named because of company policy. Fabritexca reported
no first-quarter profit, according to a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  