-- 
Congress Refuses to Release Audio of Clemens’s Deposition Ahead of Trial

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-06T17:31:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/congress-refuses-to-release-audio-of-clemens-s-deposition-ahead-of-trial.html
The  U.S. Congress  refused to release
audio of a 2008 deposition of  Roger Clemens , a decision that a
federal judge said might compromise the ex-Yankees pitcher’s
perjury prosecution at a later stage in the case.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton , chastising lawmakers for
failing to provide the recording, said Clemens’s trial on
charges of lying to Congress, which began today, will move ahead
without it. He said he wasn’t sure how the absence of the
recording might affect any appeals if the seven-time record Cy
Young Award winner is convicted.  “It doesn’t look good for our government” that Congress
won’t produce the audio of the deposition when the criminal
referral for Clemens’s prosecution came from Congress itself,
Walton said today in federal court in  Washington .  Ten of the 15 statements on which the obstruction of
Congress charges are based came from testimony Clemens gave
during his Feb. 5, 2008, deposition, according to the
indictment.  William Pittard, assistant counsel to the  House of
Representatives , said in court that the transcript of the
deposition constitutes the “official” record, while the audio
recording is a “backup” and the property of Congress protected
by the Constitution’s speech and debate clause. Pittard said his
office never received a formal request for the recording from
either prosecutors or the defense.  House Resolution  The only way it can be released is by a resolution of the
House, he said.  Michael Attanasio, one of Clemens’s attorneys, declined to
comment on the issue of the audio outside of court.  Clemens, 48, is charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury in connection with a
congressional probe of the use of performance-enhancing drugs by
ballplayers. If convicted on all charges, he faces a $1.5
million fine and as long as 30 years in prison.  Jury selection began today and opening statements are
scheduled for next week.  Prosecutors named in court more than 80 people whom they
plan to call as witnesses or refer to during the trial. They
include former St. Louis Cardinals first baseman  Mark McGwire ,
current Yankees designated hitter  Jorge Posada , and Yankees
General Manager Brian Cashman.  Lawyers for Clemens list more than 30 people who may be
called. They include former Yankees pitcher David Cone, Hall of
Famer Wade Boggs and Phil Garner, a former major-league player
and manager.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  