-- 
Containers Flood Ship Routes in Echo of 2009 Rate Decline: Freight Markets

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-07-06T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/containers-flood-ship-routes-in-echo-of-2009-rate-decline-freight-markets.html
Container lines are ignoring a drop
in freight rates and bringing the highest proportion of the
shipping fleet out of mothballs since 2008, when the global
slump resulted in the industry’s biggest losses.  The capacity of idled ships has dropped to about 80,000
containers, according to industry consultant Alphaliner. That’s
the smallest number of vessels not in use since the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. three years ago triggered a
worldwide recession.  Overcapacity threatens to limit the usual seasonal advance
in third-quarter rates to Europe, hurting earnings for such
shipping lines as Copenhagen-based A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the
world’s largest. About 45 percent of goods to Europe from  Asia 
are being transported at a loss and shipping lines need to cut
capacity for the route by as much as 10 percent to balance
supply and demand, Nordea Bank AB said June 29.  “Our view on the container market is relatively negative
due to the overcapacity there today,” said Torkel Aaberg, an
Oslo-based  fund manager  at KLP Asset Management. The fund, which
has about $46 billion under management, holds about $3.3 million
in Maersk shares and is under-weighting the stock compared with
other equity holdings, he said. “Rates are really bad. Our view
here is that Maersk will perform worse than other stocks” in
KLP’S portfolio.  Shares of Maersk,  Denmark ’s biggest company, have lost 13
percent this year compared with a 4.6 percent decline in the  OMX
Copenhagen 20 index. (KFX)  The world’s second-biggest shipping line,
Geneva-based Mediterranean Shipping Co., and Marseille-based CMA
CGM SA, the third-largest, are both privately held.  Busy Ships  Shipping lines are not cutting capacity because ships they
have ordered are now coming on line, because vessel-sharing
agreements require multiple negotiators to cut capacity and
because the first company to do so loses market share until
others follow.  “It’s a waiting game,” Rahul Kapoor, a container analyst
at RS Platou Markets AS, said by phone from  Singapore . “Every
shipping line wants the other ones to cut capacity first.”  The difference between now and the 2009 slump is that the
market is growing, not shrinking. Container volume will grow 6
percent to 8 percent this year,  Maersk Line  said May 11.  Maersk has orders for new ships equal to 22.9 percent of
its existing fleet, according to Alphaliner. MSC has orders for
24.5 percent, while CMA CGM has orders equal to 14.4 percent of
its fleet. Maersk on June 27 exercised an option with Daewoo
Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. for the 2015 delivery of
10 more of the world’s largest ships, which can each carry
18,000 20-foot containers.  Christmas Shipping  Container companies will launch new ships that will add 9
percent to capacity this year, said Finn Bjarke Petersen, a
Copenhagen-based analyst with Nordea, the Nordic region’s
biggest bank. Most of those vessels were added in the first half
of the year to be ready for the third quarter when deliveries of
goods to  Europe  and U.S. peak ahead of Christmas sales.  The result may be overall losses for the industry in 2011,
according to a July 5 note by London-based Drewry Maritime
Research.  “The fuelling of the newbuild market is not helping current
sentiment and we are running the risk of repeating the mistakes
of the ordering frenzy of 2007/08 - the legacy of which the
industry is still paying for now,” said the note, written by
Neil Dekker, editor of Container Forecaster. “With current mid-
year fundamentals in mind we forecast that the carrier industry
could make significant losses in 2011.”  Return to Profit  The industry turned unprofitable in 2009 as container lines
cut prices to maintain market share while demand fell.
Companies, including Maersk, then began idling ships, sidelining
capacity of as much as 1.5 million containers. That helped raise
freight rates, guiding the industry back to profit a year later.  “There are certainly similarities between now and the
situation two-three years ago,” said Kapoor. “Nobody wants to
lose  market share  so rates are falling. If we don’t see rates
recovering in July, then 2011 will be a pretty bad year for the
container industry.”  Freight rates are now down 60 percent from March 2010,
according to Paris-based Alphaliner. In June it cost about $850
to transport a standard-size 20-foot container to northern
Europe from the  Far East , according to spot rates provided by
Alphaliner. It cost more than $2,000 15 months earlier.  Maersk wouldn’t comment on capacity issues as the company
observes its silent period before the Aug. 17 publication of
second-quarter earnings, John Churchill, a spokesman, said by e-
mail last week.  ‘Turn for the Worse’  “I’d prefer for the companies not to build as much new
capacity as they are doing,” Aaberg, the KLP fund manager, said
in the July 1 phone interview. If Maersk’s competitors start
building ships the same size “then you’ll see rates taking a
turn for the worse,” he said.  Shipping lines would have trouble cutting capacity even if
they wanted to, said Bjoern Vang Jensen, vice president for
global logistics at  Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-largest
appliance-maker. Reason: Taking ships off-line thus requires
negotiation among multiple participants in sharing agreements.
With 150,000 shipments of 20-foot containers a year, Electrolux
has benefitted from the rate decline.  “The vessel-sharing agreements are, at least to some
extent, blocking individual carriers’ ability to adjust,” Jensen
said July 4 via phone from Singapore. “I don’t think carriers
will cut capacity because they’re still trying to persuade
themselves that the recovery in the freight market is just
around the corner and buying their own arguments.”  Route Suspension  To be sure, some shipping lines have started to pull
capacity. Cia. Sudamericana de Vapores SA, the Valparaiso,
Chile-based container-shipping company that is  Latin America ’s
largest, said July 5 it would  suspend  its Mare Nostrum Service
trade from the Far East to the Mediterranean because of the
“unfavorable economic environment” on the route.  Hanjin Shipping Co.,  South Korea ’s largest shipping line,
 said  June 16 it will suspend one of its Asia-North Europe
routes. That move may be “too little, too late,” as average
utilization is still at about 90 percent for traffic from Asia
to North Europe, Alphaliner said in a June 21 publication.  There’s a risk that the industry will be unprofitable this
year due to overcapacity, SeatradeAsia Week quoted Maersk Line
Chief Executive Officer Eivind Kolding as saying in a June 29
interview.  CMA CGM and MSC declined to comment.  The container shipping industry lost $19 billion in 2009
before interest and tax as the market contracted for the first
time since containerization became global in the 1970s,
according to an estimate by Drewry. In 2010 the comparable
profit figure was $17 billion.  “We now see these mega-ships being ordered by every carrier
who can afford them, and some who probably can’t,” said Jensen
of Electrolux. “That will lead to lower freight rates going
forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net ;
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  