-- 
Corporate Bonds Beaten by Stocks on GDP Outlook: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 
2011-07-06T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/corporate-bonds-beaten-by-stocks-on-gdp-outlook-mexico-credit.html
Mexican corporate debt is lagging
behind stocks by the most in eight months as investors bet a
rebound in U.S. economic growth will fuel bigger gains in the
equity market.  The 0.4 percent decline in dollar debt sold by companies in
the past 30 days compares with an advance of 4.6 percent for the
benchmark IPC stock index, the biggest underperformance since
Nov. 5, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bolsa Mexicana de
Valores SAB. Brazilian corporate bonds gained 0.8 percent in the
past month, compared with a 1.4 percent loss for the nation’s
Bovespa stock index.  The prospect that the expansion in the U.S, the destination
for 80 percent of Mexican exports, will accelerate in the second
half of the year is helping fuel gains in global equity markets.
While quickening growth will help bring down Mexican corporate
bond yields from a two-month high of 6.4 percent last week,
shares in the country’s stocks have more room to rally after
trading at the cheapest level in almost two years in June, said
 Alonso Madero , who helps oversee $5.5 billion of debt at Corp.
Actinver SAB.  The U.S. economy is “going to give us a very favorable
surprise in the second half of the year,” Madero said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “That set off a migration
from corporate bonds and a return to equities.”  The average yield on Mexican corporate bonds rose 16 basis
points, or 0.16 percentage point, in the past month and reached
6.40 percent on June 29, the highest since April 11, according
to JPMorgan. The earnings yield in pesos on the IPC index was
5.82 percent yesterday, down from 6.10 percent a month ago,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Equity Rally  Corporate debt posted the biggest slump in 13 months in
June as growth in Latin America’s second-biggest economy slowed.
 Mexico ’s economy expanded 2.4 percent in April, the slowest pace
since December 2009, the national statistics agency said on June
28.  Mexican stocks are also beating corporate bonds after
concerns Greece may default eased, boosting demand for equities
globally, said  David Spegel , the global head of emerging-market
strategy at ING Financial Markets in  New York .  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  survived a no-
confidence vote on June 21, changed his finance minister and
pushed 78 billion euros ($113 billion) in new austerity measures
through parliament, positioning the country to receive more
European Union aid. The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks has gained
3.8 percent in the past week.  ‘Growth Environment’  “In an environment such as we had in the past week, you
would expect equities would outperform,” Spegel said in a
telephone interview. “Mexico looks more aligned from an equity
perspective. Equity typically outperforms debt in a growth
environment.”  Mexican stocks are unlikely to continue their advance as
growth in the  U.S. economy  will remain sluggish, said  Martin Gonzalez , an equity analyst at Invex Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico
City.  “This is about the market exhaling a bit,” Gonzalez said
in a telephone interview. “Things haven’t changed much.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened 4 basis points
to 126 basis points, according to JP Morgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years was little changed at 106 basis points, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Rate Outlook  The peso fell 0.4 percent to 11.6355 per  U.S. dollar 
yesterday. It’s down 0.6 percent since the end of May, the
second worst-performing currency in  Latin America  after the
Argentine peso.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in January rose one basis point to 4.95 percent,
indicating traders expect the central bank to raise the rate in
February. Mexico is the only major Latin American country to
keep borrowing costs unchanged in the past year.  Inflation in Mexico slowed to 3.2 percent in the 12 months
through mid-June and reached a five-year low of 3.04 percent in
March. Prices in the U.S. rose 3.6 percent in May.  Orders placed with U.S. factories increased in May,
indicating manufacturing may rebound from a slowdown in economic
growth in the first half of 2011, the Commerce Department said
yesterday.  Mexico’s benchmark gauge of stocks may climb 15 percent to
42,000 by the end of the year, Monex Casa de Bolsa SA analyst
Carlos Gonzalez Tabares said in a telephone interview.  “We’re seeing better data in the U.S.,” Actinver’s Madero
said. “The  Greece  problem is starting to get resolved. You
start to put all these pieces together and you say, ‘Wow, the
world really isn’t that bad.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  