-- 
Crown Estate, Queen’s Future Income Source, Has a Record Profit

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-07-06T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/crown-estate-queen-s-future-income-source-has-a-record-profit.html
The  Crown Estate , which will provide
most of Queen Elizabeth II’s income under planned changes to
 royal finances , reported a record profit for the fiscal year
ended March 31 as rent revenue and interest income rose.  Profit increased to 230.9 million pounds ($370 million)
from 210.7 million pounds in fiscal 2010, according to a
 statement  today. The London-based corporation oversees real
estate surrendered in 1760 by the U.K. monarchy in exchange for
annual payments. The Treasury receives all the untaxed profits
from rents and other income generated by Crown Estate.  “This has in many ways been a landmark year,” said Chief
Executive Officer Roger Bright, who retires at the end of the
year. It will be “business as usual” with the proposed changes
to royal finances, since profits will continue to pass to the
Treasury, Crown Estate said in the statement.  The government will pay 15 percent of profits generated by
Crown Estate to Britain’s monarch under a  draft law  presented by
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  last week. This
simplifies a system of three payments that currently help fund
the Queen’s expenses as head of state, totaling about 35 million
pounds a year. Lawmakers are scheduled to pass the Sovereign
Grant legislation later this year. It would begin in March 2013.  Crown Estate’s higher profits stemmed from an increase in
the interest income from the 300 million pounds of cash
that Crown Estate raised from the sale of assets. These included
the disposal of four affordable-housing projects in London to
the Peabody Trust for about 140 million pounds. Crown Estate is
only permitted to invest in U.K. government bonds and real
estate.  Regent Street  Proceeds from the 443 million-pound sale of a 25 percent
stake in  London ’s Regent Street to  Norway ’s sovereign wealth
fund weren’t included in the fiscal 2011 results because the
transaction completed the day after the fiscal year ended.  Any profit from asset sales is kept by Crown Estate
and reinvested. In the past year, Bright purchased mostly “big
box” retail parks and shopping centers in Oxford, Nottingham,
Liverpool and Portsmouth, which also boosted rental income.  “Further major rebalancing between London and outside
London isn’t really an objective now,” Bright said in an
interview. Crown Estate’s investment outside London may be
reorganized, he said, without being more specific.  Crown Estate is prohibited from borrowing, so asset-sale
proceeds will help fund the 1 billion-pound program to turn
 Regent Street  into one of the West End’s dominant shopping
strips. Tenants include Apple Inc., Burberry Group Plc and
fashion designer  Michael Kors .  St. James’s  Crown Estate earlier this year started a 500 million-pound
revamp of its properties in central London’s St. James’s
neighborhood, home to some of the world’s most expensive  office
space .  Crown Estate won’t copy the Regent Street deal with Norway
for this neighborhood because its properties are too dispersed,
Bright said. Instead, it’s forming partnerships for blocks of
properties, such as its alliance with Healthcare of Ontario
Pension Plan for its Gateway project near Piccadilly Circus.  Overseas demand for prime properties in central London
helped increase the value of Crown Estate’s real estate by 9.2
percent in the 12 months through March 31 to a record 7 billion
pounds.  There was also a 32 percent increase in the value of its
587 million-pound marine estate, which covers half the
foreshore, the seabed stretching out 12 nautical miles from
Britain’s coastline and sites of wind farms outside U.K.
territorial waters.  Buckingham Palace  and Windsor Castle, the palaces occupied
by the Queen, are managed by the royal household and Crown
Estate isn’t involved. The Historic Royal Palaces, a charity,
runs the Tower of London, Hampton Court Palace, Kew Palace,
Kensington Palace and the Banqueting Hall. The Queen’s
administrators manage the Sandringham and Balmoral private
estates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 