-- 
Oil Rises in New York on Signs U.S. Crude Stockpiles Shrank a Fifth Week

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-07-07T06:35:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/crude-oil-rises-as-industry-report-shows-u-s-stockpiles-fall-a-fifth-week.html
Oil rose from a two-day low in  New
York  as investors bet declining stockpiles and signs of economic
recovery in the U.S. indicated fuel demand is strengthening in
the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures climbed as much as 0.9 percent after the  American
Petroleum Institute  said inventories dropped 3.2 million barrels
last week, more than a median 2.5 million forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey before an Energy Department report today.
Prices also advanced before data tomorrow that may show the U.S.
added more jobs in June. Morgan Stanley said it is bullish on
oil in the second half of 2011 as production capacity falls.  “The inventory numbers and euphoric buying is probably
what’s helping crude higher,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing
director of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, who
predicts oil will average $100 a barrel this year. “The big
numbers are the employment data. The market is focused on
positive numbers and if they don’t get it, it’ll be the last
nail in the coffin.  China  is slowing and  Europe  is a mess.”  Crude for August delivery gained as much as 83 cents to
$97.48 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $97.28 at 2:13 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, the contract fell 24 cents to $96.65, the lowest
since July 1. Prices are 31 percent higher in the past year.  Brent crude  for August settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange increased 44 cents, or 0.4 percent, to
$114.06 a barrel. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $16.76 to U.S. futures. The difference reached a
record $22.29 on June 15.  Brent Spread  Brent’s premium to U.S. crude may widen to at least $40 a
barrel between now and the middle of 2012, according to
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Increased output from western
 Canada  and the U.S. mid-continent has led to near-record
supplies at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New York-
traded West Texas Intermediate, the bank said in a note
yesterday.  While prices of light, sweet crude may decline in “coming
weeks”, Morgan Stanley remains bullish on the outlook for oil
in the second half of the year, the bank said in an e-mailed
report. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. today reiterated its long-
trading recommendation for Brent futures.  U.S. crude inventories decreased 0.7 percent from 359.5
million barrels in the week ended July 1, according to the
median estimate of 15 analysts surveyed. That would be a fifth
weekly drop, the longest decline since January.  U.S. Stockpiles  Gasoline stockpiles probably slid 150,000 barrels from
213.2 million last week, based on the survey. Distillate-fuel
supplies, a category that includes heating oil and diesel, are
expected to have risen 900,000 barrels from 142.3 million.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 11 a.m. in  Washington , a day late because of the
Fourth of July holiday.  Oil may extend gains in New York if futures settle above
technical resistance marked by a Bollinger Band, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The middle band on the daily chart
is at $96.97 a barrel today. A breach of resistance usually
means prices will rise further.  Nonfarm payrolls climbed by 100,000 workers after an
increase in May that was the smallest in eight months, according
to the median forecast of economists surveyed before a Labor
Department report tomorrow. The jobless rate probably held at
9.1 percent.  Oil also gained today as Japanese machinery orders climbed
at the fastest pace in fourth months, as companies increased
spending to rebuild after the March 11 earthquake.  Japan  is the
world’s third-largest crude user.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  