-- 
Crude Oil Declines After China Rate Increase, Portuguese Debt Downgrade

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-07-06T12:07:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/crude-oil-declines-as-portuguese-debt-downgrade-sparks-demand-concern.html
Oil declined as  China ’s central bank
raised  interest rates , and after Moody’s Investors Service
downgraded Portugal’s credit rating, heightening concern that
slower economic growth will crimp fuel consumption.  Brent crude fell as much 1.5 percent, extending earlier
losses as the People’s Bank of China said benchmark deposit and
lending rates will rise 25 basis points from tomorrow. The euro
weakened against the dollar after Moody’s cut Portugal’s rating
to junk status, curbing the appeal of dollar-denominated assets
such as crude. The industry-funded American Petroleum Institute
will report weekly supply and demand data today.  “Tightening monetary policy in China is already impacting
growth,” said  Christophe Barret , a London-based oil analyst at
Credit Agricole SA. “This is a declaration of policy, that
inflation is more important than growth. It will have an impact
on oil demand.”  Brent crude  for August settlement on London’s ICE Futures
Europe exchange dropped as much as $1.70 to $111.91 a barrel and
traded at $112.19 at 1:03 p.m. local time. The European
benchmark was at a premium of $15.99 to U.S. futures. The spread
reached a record $22.29 on June 15.  Crude for August delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was down 69 cents at $96.20 a barrel. Yesterday, it
advanced to $96.89, the highest settlement since June 14.  Portuguese Downgrade  Moody’s slashed Portugal four levels late yesterday to Ba2
from Baa1 with a negative outlook. The decision came two months
after Portugal got a 78 billion-euro ($112 billion) aid package
and hours before today’s sale of 1 billion euros of treasury
bills. The euro weakened against all but two of 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg.  “Right now the market’s reacting to rising concerns about
Portugal’s credit rating,  risk aversion  and the strengthening
dollar,” said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.  A U.S. Energy Department report tomorrow that may show
crude stockpiles dropped, the longest decline since January.
U.S. crude inventories shrank 2.5 million barrels from 359.5
million in the week ended July 1, according to the median
estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. All
respondents expect a drop.  “Inventories drawing, the summer drive-time and the
hurricane season all provide that flavor for a market that wants
to continue higher,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director
of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, who predicts oil in
New York will average $100 a barrel this year. “I’d expect more
gains to be had in the oil market.”  Gasoline stockpiles probably increased 1 million barrels
from 213.2 million, based on the survey. Supplies are down for
two weeks as imports declined.  Factory Orders  Oil rose yesterday after a Commerce Department report
showed orders placed with U.S. factories increased 0.8 percent
in May, below a median economist forecast of 1 percent. The
Institute for Supply Management’s index of  service industries ,
due for release tomorrow, may decrease.  “There was a good deal of ‘fact-fitting’ with traders
talking about vague optimism for the second half,”  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron Hanover Inc., an energy adviser in
 New Canaan , Connecticut, said in a note. “Nothing really fit
well for us and the reasons used to describe the advance of the
last few days have hung like designer dresses on homeless
models. They just don’t look right.”  Oil’s rally in  New York  may stall around $98 a barrel as
prices approach technical resistance, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Front-month futures are below the 61.8 percent
one-year Fibonacci retracement on the daily chart. A failure to
breach resistance usually means prices will change direction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  