-- 
Crude Oil CLimbs for a Second Day on Forecast Decline in U.S. Stockpiles

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 
2011-07-06T06:30:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/crude-oil-climbs-for-a-second-day-on-forecast-decline-in-u-s-stockpiles.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New York 
on speculation U.S. crude inventories declined for a fifth week,
signaling fuel demand may be climbing in the world’s biggest
user of the commodity.  Futures added as much as 0.9 percent, extending a 2.1
percent rally yesterday, before an Energy Department report
tomorrow that may show crude stockpiles dropped, the longest
decline since January. The industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute  will report its own data today. U.S. oil supplies have
fallen 3.8 percent since the end of May at the start of the peak
gasoline-consumption period and the  Atlantic hurricane season .  “Inventories drawing, the summer drive-time and the
hurricane season all provide that flavor for a market that wants
to continue higher,” said  Jonathan Barratt , a managing director
of Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, who predicts oil in
New York will average $100 a barrel this year. “I’d expect more
gains to be had in the oil market.”  Crude for August delivery rose as much as 90 cents to
$97.79 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $97.71 at 2:11 p.m. Singapore time.
Yesterday, the contract advanced $1.95 to $96.89, the highest
settlement since June 14. Futures have gained 36 percent in
2011.  Floor trading was closed July 4 for the U.S. Independence
Day holiday and electronic trades were booked with yesterday’s
transactions for settlement purposes.  Brent Premium  Brent crude  for August settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange climbed as much as 69 cents, or 0.6
percent, to $114.30 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a premium of $16.45 to U.S. futures. The spread reached a
record $22.29 on June 15.  U.S. crude inventories shrank 2.5 million barrels from
359.5 million in the week ended July 1, according to the median
estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. All
respondents expect a drop.  Gasoline stockpiles probably increased 1 million barrels
from 213.2 million, based on the survey. Supplies are down for
two weeks as imports declined.  Oil rose yesterday after a Commerce Department report
showed orders placed with U.S. factories increased 0.8 percent
in May, below a median economist forecast of 1 percent. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s index of  service industries ,
due for release tomorrow, may decrease.  ‘Designer Dresses’  “There was a good deal of ‘fact-fitting’ with traders
talking about vague optimism for the second half,”  Peter Beutel , president of Cameron Hanover Inc., an energy adviser in
 New Canaan , Connecticut, said in a note. “Nothing really fit
well for us and the reasons used to describe the advance of the
last few days have hung like designer dresses on homeless
models. They just don’t look right.”  Oil’s rally in New York may stall around $98 a barrel as
prices approach technical resistance, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Front-month futures are below the 61.8 percent
one-year Fibonacci retracement on the daily chart. A failure to
breach resistance usually means prices will change direction.  Barclays Plc yesterday increased its 2012 forecasts for
Brent and U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude prices.  Brent will average $115 a barrel next year, up $10 from the
previous estimate March 24, Barclays analysts led by  Paul Horsnell  in  London  said in a report. The bank increased its 2012
outlook for U.S. futures by $4 to $110 and cut its 2011
prediction by $6 to $100.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  