-- 
TCW Is Ordered to Face Gundlach’s $1.25 Billion Breach of Contract Lawsuit

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-07-06T21:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/tcw-group-loses-bid-to-dismiss-jeffrey-gundlach-s-fee-claims-over-firing.html
TCW Group Inc. must face claims at
trial by its former investment chief  Jeffrey Gundlach , who said
he was fired in 2009 so the company wouldn’t have pay him as
much as $1.25 billion in management and performance fees.  Los Angeles County Superior Court Judge Carl West today
denied TCW’s bid to bar Gundlach from pursuing breach-of-
contract claims because he wasn’t under contract at the time he
was fired. The judge ruled that a jury should decide whether TCW
and Gundlach made an oral agreement in 2007.  “There is conflicting evidence in the record which at
least raises a reasonable inference that the parties expressly
agreed to begin performing under the new deal despite the lack
of a signed agreement,” West said in his ruling.  Gundlach’s claims were filed in a countersuit against TCW
that contended he was dismissed so the company wouldn’t have to
pay $600 million to $1.25 billion in future management and
performance fees from the funds his group managed.  About a month earlier, in January 2010, TCW, the Los
Angeles-based unit of Societe Generale SA, sued Gundlach and
three other ex-employees after more than half of its fixed-
income professionals joined Gundlach’s new firm, DoubleLine
Capital Inc. TCW is seeking more than $200 million in damages,
claiming Gundlach stole its  trade secrets  as he plotted to start
his own business.  The case is scheduled to go to trial on July 25.  Trade Secrets  West, in a separate ruling today, said TCW can’t proceed to
trial with claims that Gundlach and the other defendants stole
confidential information or allegations that they violated a
California law against receiving stolen property. Both are
covered by the claims of trade-secret misappropriation, he said.  “These rulings are a total win for DoubleLine and Mr.
Gundlach, and a total defeat for TCW, on the parties’ motions
for summary judgment and summary adjudication,” Kevin Allred, a
lawyer for DoubleLine, said in an e-mailed statement. “We look
forward to trial of the remaining issues in this case”  Susan Estrich, a lawyer for TCW, said the rulings change
nothing in the trial.  “As to Gundlach’s contract claim, the judge ruled that a
jury should decide the factual issues now under dispute,”
Estrich said in an e-mailed statement. “But in doing so,
however, the judge noted that Gundlach faces an ‘uphill climb’
in his contract claim because of Gundlach’s own 2009 e-mail
declaring, quote, ‘Jeffrey Gundlach is not under contract with
TCW.’”  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Jeffrey Gundlach,
BC429385,  Los Angeles  County Superior Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 