-- 
Danish Nurses Challenge Hedge Funds by Financing Windmills

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-07-06T12:04:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/danish-nurses-challenge-hedge-funds-as-pensions-finance-windmills-at-sea.html
Kirsten Gosvig’s pension fund bought
a $485 million stake in Denmark’s largest offshore wind-power
project, an investment that’s forecast to earn at least twice
the average historical return of  hedge funds .  PKA Ltd., which manages retirement money for the 40-year-
old nurse, will earn 7 percent to 9 percent a year on the Anholt
wind farm. That’s the view of PensionDanmark, which joined PKA
in the first investment ever by pension funds in an unbuilt wind
park at sea. The return would beat the HFRX Global Hedge Fund
Index’s 2.8 percent compounded annual gain in the last 10 years.  Pension funds are sinking money into offshore projects that
banks consider too risky as the payback depends on unproven gear
that will be pummeled by gales and corrosive salt water in a 20-
year lifetime. PKA, PensionDanmark and the Dutch PGGM NV are
helping plug a 40 billion-euro ($58 billion) funding gap in
European utilities’ plans to anchor 7,000 turbines in the ocean.  “Utilities have pulled pension funds into the space,”
said Fintan Whelan, chief financial officer of  Mainstream
Renewable Power Ltd . The Dublin-based developer part-owned by
 Barclays Capital  has stakes in sea-based projects with 7.6
gigawatts of capacity, equal to about seven new atomic reactors.  The Anholt deal was “a milestone” for the wind-power
industry, said Ronan O’Regan, director of renewables at the
global consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.  Midwives, Physiotherapists  The Danish utility  Dong Energy  A/S sold stakes in its
project to PensionDanmark and PKA, the Hellerup, Denmark-based
manager of 16.4 billion euros for 245,000 mainly public workers
including nurses, midwives and physiotherapists. The investment
is set to benefit from a Danish government guarantee of above-
market prices for the emissions-free power produced.  European aid for clean energy has generated the largest
project pipeline, followed by  Asia  and  North America . European
nations have installed about 3 gigawatts and have announced
plans to add about 36 gigawatts of offshore  wind energy  in a
decade, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance. The U.K. and
 Germany  plan to build the most, led by utilities  RWE AG (RWE) , EON AG
and Centrica Plc. The U.S. has no offshore wind parks.  Utilities in  Europe  are still hampered by a scarcity of
investors and lenders in a technology that’s been used at only
at one commercial plant for as long as 20 years, the Vindeby
wind park off Denmark installed by  Siemens AG (SIE)  in 1991.  “The viability is not proven,” said  Thiemo Lang , manager
of SAM Group Holding AG’s Smart Energy Fund in Zurich. “Why
should you take the risk if you get more stable returns with
less risk somewhere else?”  Subsidized Price  Anholt’s estimated return is based on projected operating
costs and revenue, including a guaranteed subsidy from  Denmark ’s
government of 1.051 Danish kroner (20 U.S. cents) per kilowatt-
hour for the first 20 terawatt-hours of production, which should
last 12 to 15 years, according to Skaerbaek-based Dong Energy.  The Danish utility, which in March sold Gosvig’s pension
fund the stake for 2.5 billion kroner ($485 million), has
installed about half the world’s windmills at sea.  “Investments in wind farms make perfect sense from an
investment perspective,” Torben Moger Pedersen, chief executive
officer of PensionDanmark, said in an interview. “The risk and
sensitivity to the global business cycle is significantly lower
than with equity investments.”  There are inherent risks to offshore wind. Bad weather,
intrinsic to windy stretches of the sea, is hostile to the
mechanical and electrical equipment used.  Maintenance Risks  “It’s harder to get there to repair things so you may lose
production if you can’t deal with an incident for days on end,”
said Jerome Guillet, managing director of Green Giraffe Energy
Bankers of Paris and formerly head of energy for  Dexia SA. (DEXB)   Dong has developed financing techniques that bring in a
wider range of investors and allow it to pursue projects that
would otherwise be beyond its capacity, Chief Executive Officer
Anders Eldrup said.  “We have excellent knowledge in our company for how to
construct the plants but we have limited capex abilities,”
Eldrup said in a telephone interview. “This is a new tendency:
We take in people who are not in the industry as financial
investors.”  Dong, which is currently building 1,300 megawatts of wind
farms off European shores, guaranteed to Gosvig’s pension fund
that the generators will be installed, Eldrup said.  Fukushima Effect  Europe’s push for clean energy was reinvigorated by German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s decision to shut down atomic plants
after the Fukushima meltdowns in  Japan  in March. Germany’s
 Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer, plans to increase its
investments in renewable energy including wind parks to help
boost returns while the German government and KfW, the nation’s
development bank, opened a 5 billion-euro  financing program  for
offshore wind on June 8.  “Once you have one or two offshore projects that have
proved successful that should accelerate investment in this
sector” by “the classic pension fund,” said Joost Bergsma,
chief executive officer of BNP Paribas Clean Energy Partners.  Utilities including Dong and  Spain ’s  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  may
supply as much as 35 billion euros toward the 115 billion-euro
investment cost for Europe’s offshore wind plans, BNEF has
estimated. Commercial banks and export credit agencies may fund
20 billion euros each, leaving a 40 billion-euro gap the pension
funds have begun to fill.  Recycling Capital  Dong’s Eldrup has been refining his approach to bring in
institutional investors earlier in the development process. By
recycling Dong’s capital more quickly he can accelerate the
construction of new generators.  When Dong sold 50 percent of its Nysted wind farm off
southeast Denmark to PensionDanmark in September, the project
had been operating for seven years and proved its reliability.
In December, the utility sold almost 25 percent of its U.K.
Walney wind farm to Dutch pension fund PGGM NV and Triodos Bank
BV’s Ampere Equity fund while it was still under construction.  “Our partnership with Dong has a high degree of
customization, allocating risk to the party best able to bear
it,” said Bart Saenen, senior investment manager at PGGM NV.  At the Anholt site, where a share of Kirsten Gosvig’s
retirement nest egg is invested, nothing’s been built over the
gray expanse of sea some 12 miles from port of Grenaa.  For Gosvig, who runs a team of nurses at a seniors’ home
near Copenhagen and pays about 13 percent of her 45,000 kroner
monthly salary into her pension, the  carbon emissions  avoided
are an extra yield.  “We have to think about the long term,” she said. “If we
don’t do anything, it’s going to be bad for our children and
their children.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net 
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  