-- 
Credit Raters Who Didn’t Predict Iceland Crisis Miss Rebound

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-07-06T12:15:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/debt-raters-miss-iceland-rebound.html
The credit rating companies that were
too slow in predicting Iceland’s economic collapse in 2008 may
be underestimating the strength of its resurrection.  Fitch Ratings  said in May it may take two years for the
island to shed its junk status, while Moody’s Investors Service
and  Standard & Poor’s  give Iceland their lowest investment
grades. That hasn’t deterred investors from trying to buy twice
the amount offered in last month’s $1 billion bond sale as the
island returned to global capital markets less than three years
after its banks defaulted on $85 billion in debt.  “When you look at how successful that auction was, it’s
clear that investors are now crunching the numbers themselves
and that the credit grades from the rating agencies are less
relevant,” Valdimar Armann, an economist at Reykjavik-based
asset manager Gamma, said in a July 4 interview.  Iceland ’s experience shows the rating companies may be
overcompensating after failing to identify some of the risks
that led to the global financial crisis, said Armann. While
Moody’s kept a Aaa rating on Iceland until five months before
its banks collapsed, reluctance to raise the island’s credit
grade now is blocking the country’s access to a broader investor
base. Debt derivatives show the low ratings may be unwarranted
as credit default swaps on Iceland indicate it’s less likely to
default than euro member Spain.  “If things turn out better than expected, the rating can
move up,” said Paul Rawkins, a senior director at Fitch in
 London , in a phone interview. Still, there are “uncertainties
that need to be taken into account,” he said.  ‘No Discrepancy’  Moody’s head of media relations for Europe, the  Middle East 
and  Africa , Dan Piels, said the company’s ratings “reflect a
multitude of factors, only one of which is access to
international bond markets,” in an e-mailed reply to questions.
“There is no discrepancy in the ratings of Iceland and eurozone
members.”  S&P director of communications in Europe, Mark Tierney,
said the company “constantly” monitors developments in
Iceland, in an e-mail. S&P last week announced a new sovereign
ratings methodology “as part of a series of transparency
initiatives we are undertaking to help investors better
understand the meaning of our ratings,” he said.  Raters Criticized  The rating companies have been criticized by European
officials for exacerbating market turmoil by announcing
downgrades as policy makers struggle to end the debt crisis.
European Central Bank Governing council member Yves Mersch said
in March he’s heard of “increasing uneasiness” in  Europe  about
“surprising movements” by the main rating companies.  Moody’s yesterday slashed  Portugal ’s rating four levels to
junk, citing concern that the country faces unsustainable market
borrowing costs. The announcement sent the yield on Portugal’s
10-year government note up 72 basis points today to 11.74
percent. Yields on government debt sold by  Italy , Spain and
Ireland also surged.  European Commission President  Jose Barroso , a native of
Portugal, today faulted Moody’s on the timing and size of
downgrades. “In the absence of new facts on the Portuguese
economy that could justify the new assessment,” the moves by
Moody’s “don’t provide for more clarity,” he said to reporters
in Strasbourg,  France . “They rather add another speculative
element to the situation.”  Stoking Instability  Rating cuts in Europe have had “significant” spillover
effects in the region, revealing a potential to stoke
instability, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a March
report. Cuts to levels near the lowest investment grade for
“relatively large economies” have hurt other countries sharing
the euro, the IMF said.  European officials are trying to involve private investors
in a new Greek bailout without raters labeling the arrangement a
default.  Greece  needs more aid after last year’s 110 billion-
euro ($160 billion) rescue proved insufficient.  Iceland, which averted a sovereign default by refusing to
bail out bank bondholders, will see economic growth of 2.2
percent this year and 2.9 percent in 2012 as its  budget deficit 
narrows to 1.4 percent of gross domestic product, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development estimates.
The 17-member euro region will grow 2 percent this year and
next, the OECD said May 25.  Better Grade  Iceland’s “current economic conditions call for a better
investment grade in the near future,” Economy Minister Arni Pall Arnarson said in an interview.  CDS on Iceland’s debt have eased 14 percent this year.
Contracts on five-year debt were 229 basis points last week,
compared with 257 basis points for  Spain , the fourth-largest
euro member.  “The credit ratings impact the size of the potential
investor base,” said Ingvar Ragnarsson, head of funding and
debt management at Iceland’s Finance Ministry. “Access to a
larger, more diversified investor base can help reduce funding
costs.”  While Iceland kept an investment grade until its collapse,
Fitch was first to warn of risks in 2006, citing “soaring net
external indebtedness.” By contrast, Moody’s said April 2006
that talk “of risks that may accompany increased leverage in
the economy” has “recently been exaggerated.”  Impressive Progress  Iceland in 2008 got a $4.6 billion bailout led by the IMF.
It has made “impressive progress in implementing” that
program, Julie Kozack, head of the fund’s mission to the nation,
said last month.  By lobbying Moody’s and S&P in April, Iceland avoided a
downgrade to junk after voters rejected a $5.6 billion accord
with the U.K. and  Netherlands  to cover depositor claims from
failed Landsbanki Islands hf.  “We pressed them hard to examine the facts,” said
Arnarson.  Moody’s and S&P affirmed their ratings at the lowest
investment grade, keeping a negative outlook. Fitch raised its
outlook on Iceland to stable. That may be too little too late,
according to Armann.  “Rating companies have become less relevant for
investors,” he said. “They were behind the curve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  