-- 
Thailand Stocks: Asian Property, Land & Houses, Thai Airways

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-07-06T10:12:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/demco-siam-cement-sri-trang-agro-thailand-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies had
unusual moves in  Thailand  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the 4:30 p.m. close in Bangkok.  The SET Index fell 11.91 points, or 1.1 percent, to
1,072.68, the most in one week.  Property developers: Land & Houses Pcl (LH TB), Thailand’s
biggest home builder by market value, climbed 2.3 percent to
6.60 baht, the highest close since May 12.  Sansiri Pcl (SIRI)  
gained 2.1 percent to 4.92 baht.  Asian Property Development Pcl (AP) 
 increased 1.9 percent to 5.45 baht.  Kasikorn Asset Management Pcl, the nation’s largest money
manager with $23 billion of assets, favors property developers
as the Pheu Thai party, which won parliamentary election on July
3, plans tax incentives for home purchases, Petcharat
Powattanasatien, the head of equity fund management department,
said in a phone interview.  Total Access Communication Pcl (DTAC)  , Thailand’s
second-biggest mobile phone company, declined 2.2 percent to
55.75 baht, extending a two-day drop to 5.9 percent. The
commerce ministry will ask the police to further investigate the
shareholding structure of Total Access to determine whether it
is in breach of foreign ownership laws.  The ministry found “some grounds” for further
investigation, though it doesn’t have the power to complete the
probe,  Permanent Secretary  for Commerce Yanyong Phuangrach said
on July 4. Total Access said in an e-mailed statement that the
company is confident it complies with all relevant laws and
regulations in Thailand.  Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI)  , the country’s
largest carrier, dropped 3.3 percent to 29 baht on concern
rising  oil prices  will increase fuel costs. Crude oil rose for a
second day in  New York  on speculation U.S. crude inventories
declined for a fifth week, signaling fuel demand may be climbing
in the world’s biggest user of the commodity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 