-- 
Deutsche Bank’s RREEF Property Unit Buys Apartment Towers for $151 Million

-- B y   A s h w i n   S e s h a g i r i
-- 
2011-07-06T20:59:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/deutsche-bank-s-rreef-acquires-apartment-towers-for-151-million.html
RREEF, the real estate investment arm
of  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) , said it bought a 40-story apartment tower
in Chicago and two multifamily complexes in Seattle for a total
of $151 million to take advantage of rising rents.  RREEF America Real Estate Investment Trust II purchased
Cityfront Place, a 480-unit building with views of  Lake Michigan 
and the Chicago skyline, for $107 million, RREEF said today in a
statement. The REIT paid $44 million for Eden Hill and
Sweetbrier, two four-story buildings with 81 apartments and
27,000 square feet (2,500 square meters) of street-level retail
in Seattle’s Queen Anne neighborhood.  “Seattle’s economy is in recovery and is outpacing the
U.S. due to a rebounding aerospace industry and a concentrated
tech sector,” Mayura Hooper, a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based
Deutsche Bank, said in an e-mail. In  Chicago , “the confluence
of limited new supply and enhanced demand is setting up
conditions for strong rent growth,” she said.  Investor demand for U.S. commercial real estate, including
apartment buildings, is being driven up by a lack of new supply
and low  interest rates , PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in a
report last month. Apartment vacancies fell to the lowest in
almost three years in the first quarter as the weak homebuying
market fueled demand for rentals, according to Reis Inc.  The Chicago tower was purchased from Cityfront Chicago LLC
and the Seattle buildings from partnerships of closely held
Emerald Bay Equity, which is based in the city, Hooper said.  Deutsche Bank’s real estate unit had $59.4 billion in
assets under management as of March 31. It has developed two
apartment towers in Chicago during the past six years and owns
three multifamily properties in the  Seattle  area.  “RREEF expects the apartment asset class to remain the
preferred sector for institutional investors in 2011,” Hooper
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashwin Seshagiri in New York at 
 aseshagiri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  