-- 
Diamonds Lure Insurance Investor Cowdery as Gems Beat Gold

-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 
2011-07-07T12:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/diamonds-lure-insurance-buyout-king-cowdery-as-gem-returns-outperform-gold.html
Clive Cowdery, the  Resolution Ltd. (RSL) 
founder who made about $240 million buying and selling insurers,
is betting on diamonds after prices rose five times faster than
gold this year on surging demand from China and  India .  Cowdery, 48, is among startup investors in Diamond Capital
Ltd.’s $20 million fund that will manage a portfolio of the
polished gems valued at as much as $400,000 apiece. Rajeev Misra, UBS AG’s securities business joint head, is also backing
the London-based project, Diamond Capital said.  “I’m conscious of the need to balance out my  investment
risk ,” Cowdery said in an interview. “Something that is as
non-correlated with financial-market movements as this fund was
attractive.”  Diamond prices jumped 26 percent in the first six months as
rough gem production failed to match surging demand from jewelry
buyers in the swelling middle classes of  China  and India. That
compares with 5.6 percent for gold, which reached a record
$1,577.57 an ounce in May. Investors disappointed at bullion’s
performance or the 4 percent advance in the MSCI World Index of
stocks in the first half may still prove hard to sell on diamond
funds.  “I’m not a great supporter of them, but I can understand
why high net-worths find them quite attractive,” said Des Kilalea, an analyst at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. “You rely
really keenly on the guy who is doing the buying to know what he
is doing.”  Strategy Meetings  The new fund’s diamond trading will be headed by Rishi
Khandelwal, who established a gem wholesaler and retailer in
Dubai in 2006. He is part of a three-member board that will meet
quarterly to set strategy, said Peter Langdon, investor-
relations director for the fund.  Diamond Capital joins  Harry Winston Diamond Corp. (HW)  and
Fusion Alternatives in planning funds to profit from soaring
prices.  Harry Winston  said in May it proposes a $250 million
diamond fund for institutional investors, while Fusion plans one
backed by polished stones this year.  Supplies of rough diamonds, which are turned into polished
gems, are forecast to remain flat in the next five years and
will fail to match demand driven by China and India, according
to RBC. De Beers, the world’s largest producer, said June 9
demand will surpass output for at least the next five years
because of a lack of new mines.  Insurance Salesman  Last year polished gems advanced 17 percent, according to
data compiled by polishedprices.com, while gold gained 30
percent. Prices advanced a further 2.2 percent in the past week
to the highest since at least 2002, according to
polishedprices.com data.  Diamond Circle Capital Plc (DIAM) , the first publicly listed fund
to invest in the stones, has plunged 54 percent since selling
shares in 2008. The fund slumped as the financial crisis reduced
investor appetite for its $1 million-plus gems. The first
diamond investment trust, set up by Thomson McKinnon Securities
Inc. in the 1980s, was wound up after a decline in the market,
according to press reports at the time.  Cowdery, a former life insurance salesman, made his fortune
by buying closed life insurance funds through Resolution Plc
between 2003 and 2007. He sold the firm for 5 billion pounds
($7.2 billion) in May 2007, before the financial crisis, to
Pearl Group Ltd., which was then headed by  Punch Taverns Plc (PUB) 
founder Hugh Osmond.  ‘City Personalities’  Cowdery declined to say how much he’s placed with Diamond
Capital, which opened for minimum investments of $75,000 on June
13. It’s targeting $20 million and will stop accepting money on
July 22, said Langdon.  Misra, 48, who joined UBS in 2009 as global head of credit
at its investment bank after leaving Deutsche Bank AG in June
2008, said June 17 he was considering making an investment. He
hasn’t returned calls since seeking further comment.  “We’ve got some strong support from some high-profile City
personalities who like the concept and back the idea,” Langdon
said in an interview. “Diamond prices have been increasing.
There is definitely demand there for diamonds as an
investment.”  The Diamond Capital fund seeks to be different from
predecessors by trading the stones as well as holding them in
anticipation of prices rising, Langdon said. The fund will lend
stones from its inventory to jewelery retailers and allow them
to sell the gems on its behalf at a profit. The advantage for
shops is that they can offer a greater choice of diamonds,
rather than be limited to what they can buy upfront.  Banker Customers  The arrangement will enable jewelers like Dominic Carr to
meet the demanding tastes of his City of London banker customers
who pay anything from 5,000 pounds to 100,000 pounds for the
pieces, the store owner said.  “People like myself will have access to huge stock which
wouldn’t normally be available,” said Carr, who has been in the
industry for 25 years and has  two shops  on Liverpool Street.
“The main thing is having an inventory of $20 million of
diamonds within 48 hours.”  China has surpassed  Japan  as the second-biggest buyer of
diamonds behind the U.S., where demand rose 7 percent last year,
compared with 25 percent in China and 31 percent in India,
according to  De Beers .  Polished diamonds, like fine art or wine, lack fully
transparent price data. They typically attract investors who are
betting on excess demand and, unlike gold, haven’t traditionally
been used as an inflation hedge. The new fund’s diamond holdings
will be valued quarterly using prices from RAPnet, the world’s
largest diamond-trading network, to determine whether investors
make money.  Diamond Capital, which may expand the fund to $100 million
within four years, will buy stones of between 1 carat and 5
carats, said Sanjay Khandelwal of  Emdico . The family-owned
business will help manage the fund’s gem inventory and invest a
minimum of $500,000, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  