-- 
Differing EU, U.S. Derivative Rules May Discriminate, Groups Say

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-07-06T15:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/differing-eu-u-s-derivative-rules-may-discriminate-groups-say.html
Banks and other investors may face
“discriminatory” and competing sets of rules when they trade
in derivatives because of a lack of coordination between the
U.S. and European Union, trade associations said.  Requirements being developed by the U.S. government and the
European Commission may lead to “fragmentation of markets,
protectionism and regulatory arbitrage,” the groups, which
include the  International Swaps and Derivatives Association  and
the Alternative Investment Management Association, said in a
letter to  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, and
 Timothy F. Geithner , the U.S. treasury secretary.  “We believe that both sets of rules, as proposed in the
 United States  and as currently being debated in the EU, leave
the global derivatives business with ambiguity and problematic
extra-territorial challenges,” the associations said. The rules
may also lead to “legal uncertainty and misunderstanding which
might give rise to material risk,” they said.  Regulators from the Group of 20 countries have sought to
toughen rules on over-the-counter derivatives, such as credit-
default swaps, after the failure in September 2008 of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and the rescue of American International
Group Inc., two of the largest traders in CDS. The G-20 said
trades should pass through clearinghouses and be logged in trade
repositories.  Investors’ concerns include that they could face competing
sets of requirements to post margin on their trades and
different sets of licensing rules on cross-border business.  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for Barnier, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at  jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  