-- 
Disney’s Iger Says Hulu’s Owners Are ‘Committed to Selling’

-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 
2011-07-06T23:18:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/disney-s-iger-says-hulu-s-owners-are-committed-to-selling-.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  Chief Executive
Officer Robert Iger said that the owners of Hulu LLC, the video-
streaming service, are “committed to selling.”  “There’s a lot of interest,” he said in an interview at
the Allen & Co. conference in Sun Valley, Idaho. Hulu’s owners
include Disney,  News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC Universal.  Bankers for Hulu have met with  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Yahoo Inc. and
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  as the company explores a sale, people familiar
with the process said last week. The 10 to 12 potential bidders
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Guggenheim Partners have reached out to also
include  AT&T Inc. (T)   A sale would eliminate a conflict by setting up Hulu as an
independent buyer of movies and TV shows for online viewing,
said Michael Pachter, an analyst with Wedbush Morgan Securities
in Los Angeles. Hulu competes for content with the owners’ other
online customers, such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , he said.  Hulu may fetch more than $2 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and SNL Kagan. The Los Angeles-based
company hired bankers after a potential suitor expressed
interest, people familiar with the matter said on June 21.  Under a new owner, Hulu may also gain capital to acquire
more films and TV shows and challenge Netflix, the dominant
subscription streaming service.  Hulu said today it will exceed 1 million users for its
$7.99-a-month service by the end of the U.S. summer season,
earlier than the year-end goal the company initially set.
Netflix, based in Los Gatos, California, has 23 million
customers and may generate $3.25 billion in revenue this year,
the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  ‘Branded Content’  Iger declined to comment on the specifics of any
discussions or on whether movies and television shows would be
licensed exclusively to Hulu.  “I don’t want to comment on any aspect of the deal,” he
said. “It’s a good time to be in the content business though,
the branded content business.”  Disney fell 40 cents to $39.57 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange trading and has climbed 5.5 percent this year. Netflix
added $1.33 to $290.96 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading and has
gained 66 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in  Sun Valley , Idaho at
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  