-- 
U.S. Stocks Advance as Euro Weakens, Treasury Notes Gain

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 
2011-07-06T20:12:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/dollar-falls-on-u-s-rate-outlook-china-bank-shares-decline-oil-advances.html
U.S. stocks rose, erasing an
early drop, as gains in transportation, technology and consumer-
staple companies overshadowed a slowdown in service-industry
growth and China’s interest-rate boost. The euro slid and
Treasuries rose after  Portugal ’s credit rating was cut to junk.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 0.1 percent to
1,339.22 at 4 p.m. in  New York , its sixth gain in seven days.
The euro sank 0.8 percent to $1.4314 while the 10-year Treasury
yield touched a one-week low. The yield on Portugal’s 10-year
bond surged 204 basis points to a record above 13 percent,
erasing the drop last week that followed Greece’s approval of
austerity measures aimed at winning financial aid. The two-year
Irish yield soared 243 basis points to 15.31 percent. Wheat,
cotton and natural gas led losses in commodities.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  paced gains in transportation
shares, while  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  helped lead companies that
sell consumer necessities higher and  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  contributed the most to an advance in S&P 500
technology stocks. Investors awaited the start of the second-
quarter earnings season next week and data in two days that is
forecast to show U.S. payrolls grew by 100,000 jobs last month.  “We’re beginning to put the short-term economic issues
behind us,” said Robert Schaeffer, a  money manager  at Becker
Capital Management Inc. in  Portland ,  Oregon , which oversees
about $2.5 billion. “We’re likely to get better economic data
over the next months and that will rally the stock market on an
intermediate basis even if the long-term problems such as too
much debt remain unsolved.”  Rally Resumed  DuPont Co.,  Intel Corp . and Caterpillar Inc. climbed at
least 1.4 percent for the biggest gains in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average . U.S. stocks fell for the first time in six
days yesterday following a 5.6 percent rally last week, the
biggest since July 2009, as the Moody’s Investors Service
downgrade of Portugal reignited concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
will hurt economic growth.  The S&P 500 has slipped almost 2 percent since its 2011
peak at the end of April. The gauge lost 1.8 percent in June as
investors speculated that  Greece  would default on its debt.  The ISM index of non-manufacturing businesses decreased to
53.3 in June from 54.6 a month earlier. A reading above 50
signals expansion. The measure was projected to drop to 53.7,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Other data showed employers in the U.S. announced 5.3 percent
more job cuts in June than a year earlier, according to figures
from Chicago-based Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. The report
comes two days before the Labor Department’s monthly payrolls
report.  Earnings Season  Alcoa Inc. will mark the unofficial start of the earnings
season on July 11 when it becomes the first Dow average company
to release second-quarter results. Profits at  S&P 500  companies
are forecast to have increased 13 percent in the period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, with energy and
commodity producers leading the growth.  “The second quarter looks like it’s going to be good,”
 Howard Silverblatt , senior index analyst at S&P, told Bloomberg
Television. “We’re looking for consumer discretionaries and
health-cares both to set an all-time high for earnings.”
Earnings estimates show increases of 4.4 percent and 1.8
percent, respectively, for those two groups.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note slipped three basis
points to less than 3.10 percent after touching 3.07 percent,
the lowest yield since June 29, and two-year note rates
decreased one basis point to 0.42 percent.  China  Rates  China’s central bank raised benchmark deposit and lending
rates by 25 basis points effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank
of China said on its website today. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
climbed 0.4 percent before the announcement to the highest level
in almost two months as Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average rallied
1.1 percent. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index declined 0.5
percent as benchmark indexes in Hungary, Turkey and Colombia led
losses with declines of at least 1 percent.  The  New Zealand  dollar was little changed at 82.55 U.S.
cents, erasing an earlier gain of as much as 0.6 percent. A
magnitude 7.8 earthquake struck 132 miles off of the Kermadec
Islands region, according to a U.S. Geological Survey statement.
A tsunami warning is in effect for Kermadec Islands, Tonga and
New Zealand. It isn’t known that a tsunami was generated, the
warning is based only on the earthquake evaluation, according to
the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center.  The euro depreciated against 15 of 16 major peers, falling
about 1 percent versus the Swiss franc and the yen. The Japanese
currency advanced against 15 of its 16 counterparts and the  U.S.
dollar  strengthened versus 10.  Portuguese Yields  The two-year Portuguese yield jumped 380 basis points, or
3.8 percentage points, to 16.75 percent, while the extra yield
investors demand to hold the 10-year debt instead of benchmark
bunds climbed above 10 percentage points, the highest on record.
The Irish-German spread widened 94 basis points. The  European
Central Bank  will raise its main interest rate by a quarter-
percentage point tomorrow, according to all 55 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The cost of credit-default swaps insuring European
government debt rose to an all-time high, with the Markit iTraxx
SovX Western Europe Index climbing 20 basis points to 249.5, and
contracts on Portugal surged 167 basis points to a record 937.  Portugal’s three-month bills sold today were priced to
yield 4.926 percent, up from 4.863 percent at an auction on June
15. The country, which received a 78 billion-euro ($112 billion)
aid package, may possibly need a second bailout, Moody’s said
yesterday. European finance ministers last week authorized an
8.7 billion-euro loan payout to Greece, basing a second rescue
package on talks designed to ensure that banks keep their Greek
debt holdings.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 0.3 percent, halting a
seven-day rally, which was the longest stretch of gains in two
months.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  and Banco Comercial Portugues SA
slid more than 5.6 percent to lead Portuguese banks lower.
Spain’s Banco Santander SA sank 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  