-- 
Drivers Stopping Means Red-Light Cameras Don’t Yield Cash Goals

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/drivers-stopping-means-miami-red-light-cameras-fail-to-yield-promised-cash.html
Miami, which counted on $10 million
in fines from motorists caught on camera running red lights, is
planning to furlough some workers in part because penalties
didn’t come close to forecasts as drivers began obeying the law.  Houston, where voters banned cameras in November, will
receive about $10 million less than anticipated and faces a
potential claim from supplier American Traffic Solutions Inc.
for canceling a contract. The Los Angeles Police Commission
voted last month to let its agreement with American Traffic
expire, citing the expense.  Since cameras began spying on motorists in the late 1980s,
they’ve faced lawsuits challenging their constitutionality, been
banned in voter initiatives and restricted by legislation. That
hasn’t stopped U.S. cities from deploying them: The number of
municipalities with cameras has doubled to 539 since 2007,
according to the Washington-based Insurance Institute for
Highway Safety.  “This is about money and not about safety,” Ted
Hollander, a Fort Lauderdale attorney who defends people charged
with traffic offenses, said in an interview.[bn:WBTKR=RDF:AU]   Redflex Holdings Ltd. (RDF) , [] a South  Melbourne , Australia-based
camera supplier, successfully defended itself against lawsuits
challenging its product in 10 states last year and legislation
that would ban them in six, according to its annual report.  An  Arizona  employee of the company was shot and killed
while monitoring a speed-detecting camera in 2009.  Enforcement Battleground  “Photo enforcement is very much a battleground,” said
Gary Biller, executive director of the Waunakee, Wisconsin-based
National Motorists Association, a drivers’ rights organization.  The group’s website lists  10 reasons  for opposing cameras,
including that vehicle owners who get tickets in the mail may be
forced to snitch on friends or family who borrowed their car.  Studies diverge on whether cameras, which have been
endorsed by the  World Health Organization  and the National
Safety Council, actually reduce traffic accidents.  A September 2007 review by the  National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration  concluded they reduced fatal side-angle
collisions. It also said less-serious rear-end collisions
increased as drivers braked after spotting cameras.  “These cameras are never installed as revenue
generators,” said Charles Territo, a spokesman for American
Traffic in Scottsdale, Arizona. “They are installed with the
purpose of enhancing public safety.”  Cost-Neutral Contracts  Most contracts are “cost neutral,” Territo said.  “A city will never pay more in fees than the cameras
generate,” he said. “If a camera is contracted at $4,000 a
month and it generates $6,000, they pay $4,000. But if the
cameras generate $2,000, they only pay that.”  In  Florida , where legislation allowed cameras beginning
last year, American Traffic donated $159,000 to state-level
candidates and committees during the 2010 election cycle,
according to the  Florida Elections  Division. The payments
included $64,500 to Florida’s  Republican Party  and $37,500 to
the  Democratic Party .  The state, which splits camera revenue with cities, expects
about a third less income than  initially  projected from the
program, according to a  March  report from the Legislature’s
research office.  There are 28 class-action lawsuits in Florida against
municipalities related to the cameras, said  Michael Popok , a
partner with Weiss, Serota, Helfman, Pastoriza, Cole & Boniske
in  Coral Gables , Florida, who represents six cities.  Warning Signs  “If it was really about the money, we’d hide the
cameras,” Popok said. “There are big signs warning people that
they’re there.”  The lawsuits had a “slightly chilling effect” on the
rollout, leading to the lower revenue, said Amy Baker, the
Florida Legislature’s chief economist. Territo disagreed, saying
80 communities in the state use cameras.  Miami planned for $10 million from 32 cameras installed
this year. Instead, projected revenue is less than $2 million,
Mayor Tomas Regalado said in an interview. The shortfall will
contribute to a $15 million projected fiscal 2012 budget deficit
that may force the city to give employees unpaid days off one
day a week.  Miami based its estimate on tickets issued at comparable
intersections in other cities, Regalado said. Visibility of the
cameras and news coverage led to fewer violations, a 25 percent
reduction in accidents and less revenue.  “They worked too well,” Regalado said.  Goldman Investment  American Traffic, which supplied Miami’s cameras, had 19
cities sign up in the first six months of this year, Territo
said. The closely held company received an investment in 2008
from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which remains a stakeholder.  Redflex’s stock plunged 30 percent on May 10 after
shareholders rejected a takeover offer from Macquarie Group Ltd.
and  Carlyle Group , a private-equity firm. On June 17, Carlyle
announced it had withdrawn as an investor in Redflex. The firm,
which held a 12 percent stake in February, didn’t respond to a
request for comment.  Los Angeles has seen a 62 percent reduction in red-light-
related collisions at its 32 camera-monitored intersections
since 2004 and no increase in rear-end crashes, according to a
report Chief Charlie Beck gave the Police Commission last month.  The program would cost the city $2.3 million over three
years if American Traffic is kept as the contractor at the same
intersections, the report said. Territo said the estimate
includes costs not directly tied to cameras and that the
contract could be structured so the city doesn’t lose money.  Lapsed Contract  The five-member commission voted unanimously June 7 to let
the contract expire. During a public meeting, it cited the
department’s $41 million deficit, potential changes in
California law that could increase the program’s expenses and
the City Council’s boycott of Arizona-based companies over the
state’s immigration law.  Houston, which raised almost $16 million in fiscal 2010
with red-light monitors, stopped ticketing in November after
residents voted to turn off its 70 cameras by amending the city
charter. The city received about $10 million less than expected
because of the ban,  according  to budget documents.  That loss was “one of numerous factors” contributing to a
 budget deficit  for fiscal 2011, which ended June 30, said Janice Evans, a spokeswoman for Mayor Annise Parker.  A judge  ruled  last month that the vote, where 53 percent of
residents favored stopping the cameras, wasn’t valid and
couldn’t be used to end American Traffic’s contract.  The company maintains Houston must honor its agreement,
Territo said. The city hasn’t decided whether it’s going to
resume the program, Evans said.  The unpopularity of red-light cameras has spawned a
business in alerting drivers when they may be photographed.
Radar detectors linked to satellites and centralized databases
can tip off motorists before the shutters snap.  “Public opinion is awful on the cameras,” said Aaron
Thomas, a marketing manager at Escort Inc., a  West Chester ,
Ohio-based maker of warning devices. “Everyone’s looking for a
solution to get around them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  