-- 
Dutch Fund Manager Renews Hunt for Warehouses After Thwarted Takeover Bid

-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 
2011-07-06T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/dutch-fund-manager-renews-hunt-for-warehouses-after-thwarted-takeover-bid.html
The Dutch manager of the world’s
third-largest pension fund is trying to add to its investments
in warehouses and industrial buildings to take advantage of
rising Internet sales in Europe after failing to buy  ProLogis
European Properties (PEPR)  last year.  APG Algemene Pensioen Groep NV, based in Amsterdam, sold
its stake in ProLogis European, or PEPR, for 150 million euros
($215 million) last month. APG’s 1.1 billion-euro bid was
trumped by Prologis Inc., the U.S. company that manages PEPR,
Europe’s biggest warehouse operator.  “We remain keen to expand our exposure to logistics
centers because of the consequences of e-commerce,” said
Patrick Kanters, who leads the APG team that oversees 21 billion
euros of real-estate investments. Kanters, 42, spoke in an
interview at his office in Amsterdam.  As more people shop on the Internet, online retailers and
transportation companies require larger, more modern centers for
storing and handling goods. The increase in demand enabled
investors to make an average return of 9.6 percent on industrial
real estate in  Europe  last year, up from 2.8 percent in 2009,
according to Investment Property Databank Ltd.  APG managed 277 billion euros of assets at the end of April
for  Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP , its owner, and six other
pension providers, while advising 27 other institutions. The
company invested about 1.3 billion euros in real estate last
year, ending a hiatus since the end of 2006, after prices
declined from levels it considered unattractive.  Goodman Fund  APG made its offer for PEPR with  Goodman Group (GMG) ,  Australia ’s
biggest industrial real estate investment trust by market value.
The Dutch company invested 150 million euros in the Goodman
European Logistics Fund last year and joined the Goodman-led
group that in March completed a A$218 million ($232 million)
buyout of  ING Industrial Fund (IIF) , which traded in Sydney.  APG also owns 6 percent of Segro Plc, the U.K.’s largest
owner of business parks and warehouses, making it the second-
largest shareholder after Blackrock Inc.  The slide in property prices prompted APG’s customers to
increase the amount of investment money earmarked for real
estate by about 4 billion euros to about 10 percent of their
investments, Kanters said. Investing in real estate is a way of
hedging against inflation, he said.  “There are decent opportunities to do more deals,”
Kanters said. “If more appear, we can be as active as last
year.” APG expects investments made in the three years through
2012 to generate returns of more than 9 percent, he said.  London  Mall  APG bought holdings in two shopping centers last year:
Westfield Group’s  Stratford City mall  in east London, which will
be Europe’s largest when it opens in September, and the  Cap 3000 
mall in Nice,  France .  More than 40 percent of the property assets that APG
manages are retail-related because they are less dependent on
economic growth than hotels and offices, Kanters said. Also, the
rental income keeps pace with inflation, he said.  APG oversees stakes in many of the continent’s largest real
estate companies. They include Unibail-Rodamco SA, Europe’s
largest mall owner, and Utrecht, Netherlands-based  Corio NV. (CORA) 
Together, these two investments are worth a combined 2.4 billion
euros.  “The best retail centers in Europe are owned by listed
companies,” said Kanters. APG also owns stakes in  Simon
Property Group Inc. (SPG) , largest U.S. shopping-mall owner, and Kimco
Realty Corp.  About 50 percent of APG’s real estate investments are
located in Europe and 30 percent are in the Americas, according
to Kanters.  “In the long run, we want to increase our exposure in
 Asia ,” which currently accounts for about 20 percent of the
real estate assets APG manages, Kanters said.  Aside from backing the ING Industrial Fund buyout, APG’s
deals this year include investments in the Harmony China Real
Estate Fund and in Century Properties Inc., a residential
developer in the  Philippines .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 