-- 
Technology Leads U.S. Office Rent Rebound as Occupancy Rises

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-07-06T17:53:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/technology-leads-a-rebound-in-u-s-office-rents-as-occupancies-increase.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  drew attention from
landlords in March when it leased most of a 36-story downtown
 Seattle  tower built during the recession, a sign that technology
job growth would help lift U.S. office rents and occupancies.  “The reduction of big blocks of space is always the first
indicator of recovery,” said Patrick Callahan, chief executive
officer of Urban Renaissance Group, a Seattle-based commercial
real estate developer and investor that manages about 2 million
square feet (186,000 square meters) of properties.  The U.S. office market gained 3.7 million square feet of
net occupied space in the three months through June, the third
straight quarterly increase,  Reis Inc. (REIS)  said today. Vacancies
fell or were unchanged in nine of the 10 largest office markets,
and declined in more than half of the 79 metropolitan areas
surveyed, the New York-based property-research firm said.  Demand for space from technology companies is leading a
rebound in U.S. office rents. Groupon Inc., the Chicago-based
coupon-website operator, in June signed a lease for a 40,000-
square-foot building in  Palo Alto ,  California , to house its
growing Silicon Valley product and engineering staff. The
building, at 3101 Park Blvd., is more than triple the size of
Groupon’s current space in the city, said Julie Mossler, a
spokeswoman for the company.  Climbing Rents  Rising demand in large U.S. cities is helping increase
effective rents, or what tenants pay after such landlord
concessions as rent-free months. Effective rents rose in six of
the top 10 markets last quarter, Reis said. San Francisco
climbed the most, gaining 6 percent from a year earlier,
according to the firm.  “Northern California in the last six months has shown
tremendous strength,” said Frank Cohen, a senior managing
director in real estate for  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , whose Equity
Office unit has stakes in 19 million square feet of  office space 
in the San Francisco Bay area and Silicon Valley.  Demand from technology companies helped drive asking rents
in San Francisco up to $40.06 a square foot in the second
quarter, a 19 percent increase from a year earlier and the
biggest advance in four years, according to  Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc. (JLL)  Net absorption totaled almost 1.3 million square feet in
the 12 months ended June 30, making San Francisco the nation’s
top-performing office market, the Chicago-based broker said.  New York   New York,  Boston  and  San Jose , California, also were among
the top 10 markets in effective rent growth in the second
quarter, Reis said. Demand from financial services and media
companies drove the gains in New York, while technology and
life-sciences tenants buoyed the Boston area, Cohen said.
Technology demand also is strong in Austin,  Texas , he said.  “In markets that have had the most growth, we’ve seen
blocks of space dwindle and we are seeing strong increases in
rent,” Cohen said in a telephone interview from New York. In
midtown  Manhattan , Equity Office has boosted gross rents by as
much as 30 percent since the beginning of last year, he said.  New space coming onto the market prevented a decline in the
national office vacancy rate, which was unchanged from the first
quarter at 17.5 percent, Reis said. A year ago, the rate was
17.4 percent. A total of 1.8 million square feet of new space
became available, the lowest since Reis began publishing
quarterly data in 1999.  Financial services, insurance and real estate companies are
the largest users of office space, accounting for almost 22
percent of the U.S. total, according to  CoStar Group Inc. (CSGP) 
Services companies, including technology, are second, at 14
percent, according to the Washington-based research company.  ‘ Turning Point ’  “Concessions are down and rents are up,” said Ada Healey,
vice president of real estate at Seattle-based Vulcan Inc.,
billionaire  Paul Allen ’s investment and development company.
Amazon.com’s lease at Schnitzer West LLC’s 1918 Eighth Ave., in
Seattle’s Denny Triangle neighborhood, “was clearly a turning
point” in the city’s office market, Healey said.  Employers in the U.S. probably expanded payrolls by 100,000
workers last month after a 54,000 increase in May that was the
smallest in eight months, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News ahead of Labor Department
data due July 8. The jobless rate held at 9.1 percent.  “The jobs we’re getting are in office-using industries,”
said Asieh Mansour, head of Americas research for Los Angeles-
based  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc. (CBG) , the largest commercial
property services company. “The trend in leasing is up.”  Office REITs Climb  The Bloomberg Office Real Estate Investment Trust Index has
climbed 45 percent after dividends during the past year, more
than the 33 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Office buildings in central business districts are seeing
the biggest increases in demand, as corporate tenants flock to
urban areas with such amenities as restaurants and public
transit, Mansour said. In past recoveries, suburban office
markets typically improved first as small businesses leased
space in those areas, she said.  “This is the first time I’ve seen this,” Mansour said.
“In this cycle, small businesses sat on the sidelines. They
don’t have access to credit, to bank loans. What’s driving the
recovery is the big companies.”  The technology industry accounted for about a third of net
new leases in the  San Francisco  Bay area so far this year,
followed by financial services at 20 percent, Mansour said. Five
years ago, the predominant office users in the area were
financial services and law firms, she said.  Reis expects rents and occupancies to continue to improve
in the second half of the year, said Ryan Severino, an economist
at the firm. Increases may be hurt by the addition of fewer jobs
than economists expect and the continued impact of such global
disruptions as the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , he said in
today’s report.  “Recent developments in the economy serve as a stark
reminder that this will be a protracted and inconsistent
recovery in the office market,” Severino wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Vancouver at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  