-- 
Egypt Stocks Decline Most in Month After Blasts, Acquittals

-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-07-06T13:44:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/egypt-stocks-decline-most-in-month-after-blasts-acquittals.html
Egyptian shares fell the most in more
than a month after blasts were heard in several parts of Cairo
and an Egyptian court cleared three former ministers and two
businessmen of corruption-related charges.  The benchmark EGX30 Index retreated 2.2 percent, the most
since June 2, to 5,320.51 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. About
423 million Egyptian pounds ($71 million) worth of shares were
traded, compared with a six-month daily average of about 684
million pounds, according to Bloomberg data.  Orascom
Construction Industries (OCIC)  dropped the most since June 15.  “Investors are edgy,” said Wafik Dawood, director of
institutional sales at Cairo-based Mega Investments Securities.
“They fear the developments this week will add momentum to
planned protests on Friday. The explosions today gave momentum
to the sell-off.”  Explosions heard today in the Egyptian capital may have
been caused by a military jet breaking the sound barrier,
Brigadier General Hany Abdel Latif said in a telephone interview
today. After the market closed yesterday, three Mubarak-era
ministers and two businessmen were acquitted on corruption-
related charges, Middle East  News Agency  reported.  Anas el-Fikki and Youssef Boutros-Ghali, the former
ministers of information and finance, respectively, had been
charged with squandering public funds on parliamentary and
presidential election campaigns, the news agency said yesterday.
Former Housing Minister Ahmed el-Maghraby, Waheed Metwally, a
businessman, and Yasseen Mansour, the chairman of  Palm Hills
Developments SAE (PHDC) , were also acquitted on charges that include
profiteering, MENA said. El-Maghraby has already been given a
five-year jail sentence in a separate case.  Orascom Construction ,  Egypt ’s biggest publicly traded
builder, fell 1.9 percent to 269.23 pounds.  Commercial
International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI) , the country’s biggest publicly
traded lender, declined 2.1 percent to 29.33 pounds, the lowest
level in a week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  