-- 
Lehman Borrowed $18 Billion From Undisclosed Fed Program During ’08 Crisis

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   I v r y
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/lehman-borrowed-18-billion-from-undisclosed-fed-program-during-08-crisis.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s
brokerage borrowed as much as $18 billion in four separate loans
from a previously secret program of the U.S.  Federal Reserve  in
June 2008, three months before its parent filed the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history.  The program, which peaked at $80 billion in loans
outstanding, was known as the Fed’s single-tranche open-market
operations, or ST OMO. It made 28-day loans to units of 19 banks
from March 7, 2008, to Dec. 30, 2008. Bloomberg reported on ST
OMO in May, after the Fed released incomplete records on the
program. In response to a subsequent Freedom of Information Act
request for details, the central bank disclosed borrower names,
amounts borrowed and  interest rates .  The Lehman brokerage,  Lehman Brothers Inc ., tapped the ST
OMO program for as much as $5 billion in short term funding in
March 2008, and lower amounts at other times during the month.
It took as much as $10 billion in June as the credit crisis
worsened, according to Fed data. The maximum outstanding for any
period was $18 billion.  The brokerage agreed on Sept. 18, 2008, to pay outstanding
loans that day, the Fed said. It went into liquidation on Sept.
19, four days after its parent.  Reports of Demise  Separately, the Lehman parent then run by Chief Executive
Officer Richard Fuld had a $45 billion loan from the Fed’s so-
called Primary Dealer Credit Facility around the time of its
bankruptcy. An August 2009 article in a  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York  publication said the Fed’s facility was expanded on
Sept. 14, 2008, in response to reports that Lehman was “only
days away” from bankruptcy, and might put other firms at risk.  The day before Lehman filed for bankruptcy, almost all of
its $41 billion cash pool was tied up at bank lenders including
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and Bank of America Corp.,
according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report.  Expanding its facility to lend to Lehman, the Fed took
previously unacceptable collateral for its loans, including non-
investment grade securities and equities, according to the
article, “The Federal Reserve’s Primary Dealer Credit
Facility.”  Concerned about the safety of the loan, the Fed told
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  to take over the loan when it bought the defunct
investment bank’s North American business, according to court
testimony. Barclays closed its purchase of Lehman’s business a
week after Lehman’s Sept. 15, 2008 bankruptcy.  Barclays Capital   Separately, the U.K. bank’s Barclays Capital Inc. unit had
peak loans from the ST OMO program of $21.4 billion, Fed data
shows.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to e-mails seeking comment yesterday. Michael O’Looney,
a Barclays spokesman, declined to comment.  Lehman failed because of too much leverage, which it tried
to hide, and risky real-estate lending, according to bankruptcy
examiner Anton Valukas.  Goldman, Sachs & Co., a unit of the most profitable bank in
Wall Street history, took $15 billion on Dec. 9, 2008, the
biggest single loan from a lending program whose details have
been secret until yesterday.  The Lehman bankruptcy main case is In re Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., 08-13555,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Ivry in New York at   bivry@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  