-- 
Emerging Stocks Drop for Second Day on China Rates, Euro Debt

-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-07-06T22:09:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/emerging-market-stocks-decline-for-second-day-chinese-banks-lead-losses.html
Emerging-market stocks declined for a
second day as  China  raised its benchmark interest rate and
Moody’s Investors Service’s downgraded Portugal, reviving
concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will damage global growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index decreased 0.4 percent to
1,161.17 at 4:45 p.m. in  New York .  Brazil ’s Bovespa stock index
declined on speculation the central bank will raise borrowing
costs later this month, said Geoffrey Dennis, global emerging-
markets strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York.  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  fell 1 percent and the
FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index dropped 0.4 percent, the first
decline for the South African benchmark gauge in nine days. The
 MSCI China (MXCN)  Index, which tracks mostly Hong Kong-traded shares,
slipped 1.1 percent, led by banks.  China will raise its benchmark deposit and lending rates
for a third time this year starting tomorrow, the People’s Bank
of China said on its website today. Moody’s downgraded
 Portugal ’s debt four levels to junk yesterday, sparking
speculation the country may require a second bailout.  “The rating downgrade of Portugal will increase
nervousness ahead of key U.S. data,”  Bartosz Pawlowski  and
other emerging-market analysts at BNP Paribas SA wrote in an e-
mailed report. The downgrade may “open a fresh wound in the
euro zone and so the good mood in risky assets is likely to be
put aside for a while,” they wrote.  The rate of growth by  service industries  in the U.S.
probably fell in June, according to analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News before Institute for Supply Management data due
for release today.  Ruble Weakens  The ruble depreciated 0.5 percent against the dollar, and
the lira weakened 0.4 percent. The rand slipped 0.1 percent and
the Korean won strengthened 0.3 percent.  Oil and copper prices extended losses after China’s move.
Oil fell 24 cents to settle at $96.65 a barrel in New York.
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA, Brazil’s second-largest
steelmaker, declined 1.3 percent on concern that Chinese demand
for building materials is waning.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s biggest lender by
market value, lost 2.4 percent in Istanbul.  In Johannesburg, the All Share index slid 0.4 percent as
mining companies Anglo American Plc and BHP Billiton Plc, which
account for 23 percent of the gauge, retreated following the
Chinese rate decision.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  declined 3.2 percent in  Hong
Kong  and  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  sank 3.6 percent as Temasek Holdings
Pte,  Singapore ’s state-owned investment company, sold the
lenders’ shares for $3.6 billion. The sale came hours after
Moody’s Investors Service said Chinese banks’ non-performing
loans may rise to as much as 12 percent of total credit.  China Rates  China’s one-year lending rate will increase to 6.56
percent, and its one-year deposit rate to 3.5 percent from 3.25
percent. Demand deposit rates were left unchanged, the People’s
Bank of China said.  In Brazil, Natura Cosmeticos SA, Latin America’s largest
cosmetics producer, was among the biggest decliners on the
Bovespa by companies that depend on domestic demand. Natura fell
3 percent.  “There is a mood developing that you’ll have more interest
rates hikes in Brazil than just one more,” Dennis said.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.2 percent.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  rose 0.4 percent and Taiwan’s
Taiex Index added 0.5 percent.  In  Seoul , Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. gained 6.4 percent,
the most since May 31, after it ruled out a bid for  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660) , which tumbled 5.4 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose one basis point to 293, according
to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  