-- 
EU CDS Curbs, China-U.S. Talks, Austrian Banks: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-07-06T12:14:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/eu-cds-curbs-china-u-s-talks-austrian-banks-compliance.html
European lawmakers called for
restrictions on traders’ use of credit-default swaps to profit
from defaults on sovereign debt they don’t own.  The  European Union Parliament  in Strasbourg, France, also
voted in favor of a ban on short selling of  government bonds  in
the EU unless traders have at least “located and reserved” in
advance the securities they intend to sell.  Pascal Canfin, a French lawmaker who is responsible for the
legislation in Parliament, described the vote as “a strong
political message.” Negotiations on the measures with
governments in the 27-nation region will continue next week, he
said.  The Parliament is seeking tougher curbs on short selling
and sovereign CDS than those supported by most EU governments.
The assembly called for a ban on the buying and selling of
credit-default swaps on European Union nations’ debt, unless the
buyer either owns the underlying security or another asset whose
market price moves in close tandem with it. That would allow
investors to take out insurance if they know that a default
would harm their non-sovereign holdings such as shares in
companies in the defaulting nation.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  China  Said to Discuss Letting SEC Probe Mainland Companies  U.S. and Chinese officials will meet next week to discuss
giving American securities regulators the right to investigate
companies within China for the first time, said two Chinese
officials with direct knowledge of the plans.  Representatives from the Securities and Exchange Commission
and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board will meet with
counterparts from the China Securities Regulatory Commission in
Beijing from July 11 to 12, said the officials, who asked not to
be named because the talks are private.  A joint delegation from the SEC and PCAOB will share
“technical and practical information regarding audit inspection
and cross-border oversight,” according to Colleen Brennan, a
PCAOB spokeswoman.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to
comment.  Dozens of companies traded in the U.S. have disclosed
auditor resignations or accounting irregularities this year,
leading to the suspension or delisting of their shares. Some of
the SEC’s investigations of such companies have been stalled by
the inability to gather information in China.  Regulators in the Asian nation haven’t felt pressure to
immediately address oversight of companies publicly traded in
the U.S. because they weren’t responsible for approving the
listings, one of the officials said.  The meetings next week will discuss the feasibility of U.S.
regulators conducting field inspections of auditors and
companies in China, the officials said. They also will include
talks focused on companies that list in the U.S. through reverse
mergers, said one of the Chinese officials.  For more, click here.  Lehman Crisis Shows U.K. Needs Bigger Payment System, BOE Says  The U.K. must increase the number of banks that participate
in its large-value payment system to eliminate risks to
financial stability, said Chris Salmon, chief cashier at the
 Bank of England .  With 18 firms serving the entire sterling-denominated
banking industry, the current system “introduces unnecessary
risk and change is needed,” Salmon said in a speech in Leeds,
England, yesterday. In the speech, he used  Lehman Brothers  as an
example of evidence of the “case for change.”  The situation in the U.K. compares with  Hong Kong , where
all licensed banks must be members of the large-payment system,
and the U.S., where there are more than 7,000 participants,
Salmon said. With a small number of members, more transactions
must be settled indirectly in a so-called tiering problem,
raising risks of intraday credit risk in case one of the banks
involved in a payment arrangement runs into trouble.  The Bank of England may consider measures to boost
membership of its large-value payment system to reduce risks,
Salmon said. Currently, some intraday credit lines may exceed 10
percent of the intermediating banks’ core Tier 1 capital.  The central bank published a report in May that showed U.K.
lenders could experience liquidity restrictions within an hour
if a firm stops or reduces its transfers through the nation’s
large-value transaction system.  Austria Doesn’t See Capital Surcharge for Nation’s Top Banks  Austrian regulators won’t pursue a capital surcharge for
the country’s biggest banks as European policymakers debate how
to adapt at the national level new rules to make global “too-
big-to-fail” lenders safer.  In an effort to prevent another financial crisis, the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision said last month that banks
deemed too big to fail must hold as much as 2.5 percentage
points in additional capital. As many as 30 banks worldwide may
face such surcharges. The debate is now turning to banks whose
collapse could unsettle a particular country’s banking system
even if they are too small to cause global havoc.  Helmut Ettl and Kurt Pribil, co-chairmen of Austrian
financial supervisor FMA, said nations should have leeway to
apply capital surcharges and other rules selectively and
shouldn’t be forced to slap a surcharge on banks that are
systemically important on a national level.  The  European Commission  is due to discuss new rules for
national systemically important financial institutions, or
SIFIs, Ettl said.  For more, click here.  CFTC Budget Includes ‘Unsustainable’ Hiring, O’Malia Says  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  isn’t
spending enough on technology to track the $601 trillion global
swaps market and is adding employees who face “potential
downsizing” as Congress seeks to rein in budget deficits, said
 Scott O’Malia , a commission member.  The CFTC’s $202.7 million budget for fiscal 2011 provides
$5.4 million for technology related to new Dodd-Frank Act
requirements and funding for 50 new employees, according to
O’Malia’s June 15 dissent from the agency’s budget plan. The
dissent was released yesterday.  Dodd-Frank, the financial overhaul enacted last year,
requires the CFTC and  Securities and Exchange Commission  to
write new rules for the swaps market after largely unregulated
trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. The agencies are
slated to miss most of the July deadlines for the new rules
governing trades made by banks including  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)   The Republican-controlled U.S. House of Representatives
voted June 16 to cut the CFTC’s funding by 15 percent, or $30
million.  The cuts to the agency’s funding would “significantly
curtail the timely, effective implementation” of the new
derivatives rules, the Obama administration said in a statement.  Steve Adamske, CFTC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment.  Compliance Action  U.S. Regulators Issue Guidance on Counterparty Credit Risk  U.S. banking regulators issued new guidance on counterparty
credit risk management for large banks, stressing the need for
adequate controls and measurement systems.  The Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the  Office of
Thrift Supervision  said yesterday the financial crisis of 2007-
2009 “revealed weaknesses” in counterparty credit risk
management “at many banking organizations.”  The regulators pointed to the “shortcomings” in the
ability of banks to determine exposures in a timely way, and
noted “poor selection” of counterparty credit risk metrics.  Counterparty credit risk “management techniques have
evolved rapidly over the last decade, along with increased
complexity of derivative instruments,” the regulators said.
“Implementation of sound practices has been uneven across
business lines and counterparty types.”  Regulatory guidance, while not binding like a rule, is used
by bank examiners to set standards for financial institutions.  EU Parliament Votes on Bancassurance, OTC Derivatives  Lawmakers in the  European Parliament  voted yesterday to
amend rules for supervisors of so-called bancassurance
companies, firms that have both insurance and banking arms.  Existing legislation in the 27-nation European Union should
be adjusted to ensure that authorities can apply both banking
and insurance regulation to such firms, the Parliament said in
Strasbourg,  France , yesterday. The clarification was proposed
last year by the  European Commission , the EU’s executive arm.  Separately, the parliament endorsed measures to force some
trading of over-the-counter derivatives through clearinghouses
in a bid to safeguard financial markets.  Lawmakers approved proposals to empower the  European
Securities and Markets Authority  to decide on types of
derivatives that should be centrally cleared. Traders that flout
the rules would face penalties including fines.  The parliament agreed that members of its economic and
monetary affairs committee should continue negotiating with
governments on the measures, with a view to holding a further
vote once a deal has been reached.  The EU assembly and national governments must agree on the
final wording of the measures before they can enter into force.  Exchange-Traded Funds Said to Face Review by U.K. Fraud Office  U.K. fraud prosecutors are reviewing how exchange-traded
funds are marketed and whether they have the proper tools to
prosecute any wrongdoing in the industry, a person directly
involved with the probe said.  No specific companies or products have been targeted in the
probe at this point, the person said.  The  Serious Fraud Office , which prosecutes white collar
crime, hired a consultant to interview bankers and lawyers to
determine whether there is a risk that sales of the products may
involve criminal conduct in the future. The Financial Services
Authority and the Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee
have warned of a lack of transparency in the ETF market.  ETFs are exchange-listed products that mirror indexes,
commodities, bonds and currencies and allow investors to buy and
sell them like stocks. They became more popular in the aftermath
of the 2008 selloff that wiped $37 trillion from global equity
markets because they carry lower fees than other funds, require
lower initial investment than futures, can be traded throughout
the day and cover most indexes.  The agency is looking more closely at ETFs because they
have similar characteristics to the CDOs that helped spark the
financial meltdown in 2008, according to the person.  FSA Chief Executive Officer  Hector Sants  said June 24 that
there are “question marks” regarding whether synthetic ETFs
are appropriate for all types in the retail marketplace. Sam
Jaffa, a spokesman for the SFO in London, declined to comment.
Rachel Cohen, a spokeswoman at the FSA, declined to comment
other than to refer to Sants’s previous remarks.  For more, click here.  Courts  Standard Chartered  Sued in Singapore Over Madoff ‘Feeder Fund’  Standard Chartered Bank Plc was sued by two groups of
Dubai-based investors in Singapore claiming they lost $10
million after being misled into investing in funds that
channeled money to Ponzi scheme operator Bernard L. Madoff.  American Express Bank Ltd., which has since been acquired
by Standard Chartered, had misrepresented Fairfield Sentry Ltd.
as an “extremely stable” investment, the investors said in two
lawsuits filed with the Singapore High Court. The bank also
claimed it performed “extensive due diligence” on Fairfield, a
so-called feeder fund in Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, according to
court papers submitted by the investors.  The two groups of former clients were experienced investors
who knew of the risks involved, Standard Chartered said in
filings on June 27. The London-based bank denied misleading the
investors and wasn’t responsible for their investment decisions,
it said in the filing.  Ally Lim, a Singapore-based spokeswoman at Standard
Chartered, declined to comment, as did Niru Pillai, the lawyer
representing both groups of investors.  The cases are Tradewaves Ltd. v Standard Chartered Bank
S337/2011 and Jitendra Gopaldas Bhatia v Standard Chartered Bank
S338/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  Ex-Primary Global Consultant Pleads Guilty in Insider Case  Walter Shimoon, the former  Primary Global Research LLC 
consultant charged in a nationwide probe of insider trading,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy and  securities fraud .  Shimoon, who pleaded guilty to two counts of conspiracy and
one count of securities fraud, faces as many as 30 years in
prison. His sentencing is scheduled for July 8, 2013 in
Manhattan federal court. Shimoon is cooperating with
prosecutors.  In a parallel lawsuit, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission alleged Shimoon spoke with people from at least 11
hedge funds over 14 months and leaked stock tips to some of
them.  Shimoon, a former  Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX)  manager,
was arrested in December with three other defendants and charged
with conspiracy and wire fraud.  Also charged with Shimoon were former Primary Global
executive James Fleishman; Mark Anthony Longoria, who worked at
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ; and Manosha Karunatilaka, a former
account manager at Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  Longoria and Karunatilaka have pleaded guilty. Fleishman is
scheduled to be tried next month on two counts of conspiracy.  Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant, was
convicted of securities fraud and conspiracy June 20 in
Manhattan federal court.  The case is U.S. v. Shimoon, 10-mj-2823, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Berkowitz Says ‘Not a Lot New’ in SEC Probe of St. Joe  Bruce Berkowitz , St. Joe Co.’s chairman and biggest
shareholder, said there is “not a lot new” in last week’s
announcement that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
started a formal investigation of the company and his money-
management firm.  “It was my decision” to disclose the stepped-up probe, he
said yesterday in an interview with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track.” Berkowitz, founder of Miami-based
Fairholme Capital Management LLC, said he released the
information in the July 1 filing so St. Joe wouldn’t be hindered
in resuming a stock-purchase program.  Berkowitz declined to comment on the intent of the SEC
investigation.  For more, click here.  Golub Says Dodd-Frank Will Have ‘Malignant’ Consequences  Harvey Golub, former chairman of American International
Group Inc., discussed negotiations to raise the U.S. debt
ceiling, bank regulation, the Dodd-Frank law and the housing
market.  Golub spoke with Betty Liu on Bloomberg Television’s “In
the Loop.”  For the video, click here.  Yan Says China’s Banking Industry Lacks Transparency  May Yan, an analyst at Barclays Plc, talked about China’s
banking industry.  Chinese banks’ loans to local governments are about 3.5
trillion yuan ($540 billion) more than the national auditor’s
estimate, and the industry’s credit outlook could decline,
Moody’s Investors Service said. Yan spoke in Hong Kong with John
Dawson on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Robert Jenkins Named to BOE’s Financial Policy Committee  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne appointed Robert
Jenkins to the Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee,
replacing Richard Lambert.  Jenkins is chief executive officer and managing partner of
 Combinatorics Capital , and professor of finance at the London
Business School, the  Treasury  said in an e-mailed statement in
London yesterday. He has previously worked at Citibank,  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  F&C Asset Management Plc. (FCAM)   Lambert said in May that he wouldn’t take up his place on
the FPC, saying that he wanted “to devote my time to a wider
range of aspects of public policy.”  The government established the FPC to help prevent a repeat
of the financial crisis, and it will operate on an interim basis
alongside the central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee.  The panel has five Bank of England officials including
Governor Mervyn King, plus Adair Turner and Hector Sants of the
Financial Services Authority. They sit alongside three external
members -- Former Federal Reserve Vice Chairman Donald Kohn,
former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  official Michael Cohrs and former Bank
of England Executive Director Alastair Clark.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 