-- 
EU May Force Mobile-Phone Operators to Cut Roaming Charges

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-07-06T11:49:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/eu-may-force-mobile-phone-operators-to-reduce-roaming-charges.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and
other mobile-phone operators may have to offer customers
separate, cheaper contracts for mobile-phone use abroad starting
July 1, 2014, under a European Union proposal.  The EU also plans to cap prices for Internet data roaming
at 90 euro cents ($1.30) per megabyte starting July 1, 2012,
falling to 50 cents by July 2014, the Brussels-based European
Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, said today. The draft rules
retain retail price caps for voice and text messages until the
middle of 2016.  Phone companies are trying to maximize revenue from users
of smartphones and tablet computers surfing the Web, to make up
for a decline in voice calls. Network owners have also been
facing reduced revenue in their home countries as national
regulators award competitors cheaper access to wireless
infrastructure.  Roaming revenue “will continue to decline but there will
also be an uptick in users who haven’t enabled roaming before”
as prices fall, said Katja Ruud, an analyst at Gartner Inc. in
Solna,  Sweden . Roaming revenue on average accounts for about 10
percent of a European phone company’s sales, Ruud said.
“Operators have seen regulation coming and have slashed prices
beforehand, to be seen as playing the game and to stave off
tougher caps.”  ‘Outrageous Profit’  Telecommunications companies currently make “outrageous
profit margins” from data roaming,  Neelie Kroes , the EU’s
digital agenda commissioner, said in a statement. Separate
contracts would give customers more choice and allow more
operators to compete, she said.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  introduced a data tariff on July 1 in
10 European countries which allows region-wide data use for less
than 20 cents per megabyte, spokesman Andreas Middel said.
Vodafone has cut the price of mobile data transfers in  Europe  by
more than a third over the last two years and typically charges
2 euros a day for 25 megabytes of daily traffic, spokesman Mark
Street said by e-mail.  “We’re strictly opposed to a decoupling of roaming offers
from other products,” Guido Heitmann, a spokesman for Royal KPN
NV’s German E-Plus unit, said in an e-mailed statement. “This
introduces a process that’s very work-intensive for consumers
and operators,” and new caps on retail prices are
“unnecessary.” KPN is the largest Dutch phone company.  ‘Aim and Intent’  Telefonica, Spain’s biggest phone company, “supports the
aim and intent of the draft regulation,” said a spokesman. “At
the moment, it is too soon to say if it can work in practice,
and if the benefits of the proposal outweigh the costs.”  France Telecom SA (FTE)  is ‘reviewing the proposed structural
measures and exploring what solutions can be delivered that
remain effective in terms of cost and ease of use for
customers,’ spokesman  Tom Wright  said by phone. Deutsche Telekom
AG will “review this proposal regarding the technical
implementation and feasibility,” Middel said.  The EU capped fees for making and receiving mobile-phone
calls abroad in 2008. The commission said last year that there
should be little difference between roaming and domestic fees by
2015. The EU’s proposal requires approval from lawmakers and
member states before it takes effect.  -- With assistance from Manuel Baigorri in Madrid, Matthew Campbell in Paris and  Jonathan Browning  in  London . Editors:
Robert Valpuesta,  Kenneth Wong .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  