-- 
Euro Trades Near Week Low on Debt Crisis Concern, China’s Rate Increase

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-07-07T05:44:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/euro-trades-near-week-low-on-debt-crisis-concern-china-s-rate-increase.html
The euro was 0.3 percent from a one-
week low versus the yen as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is
spreading and China’s decision to raise interest rates damped
demand for higher-yielding assets.  The euro traded near the lowest level in a week against the
Swiss franc after analysts said Ireland’s credit rating may be
cut to junk by Moody’s Investors Service following  Portugal ’s
loss of its investment-grade rating. The Australian dollar rose
after a government report showed employers added more jobs than
economists had estimated. Thailand’s baht advanced after
incoming Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said her government
intended to let the currency strengthen.  “I think this contagion, Europe periphery stuff is
actually really important, and that will continue to weigh on
the euro,” said Matthew Brady, executive director for foreign
exchange at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Sydney. “I do prefer to
sell rallies for the euro.”  The euro traded at 115.92 yen as of 6:30 a.m. in  London 
from 115.86 in  New York  yesterday, when it touched 115.55, the
weakest level since June 28. The 17-nation currency fetched
1.2026 Swiss francs from 1.2018 francs after yesterday falling
to 1.1967, the lowest since June 29.  The euro was at $1.4325 from $1.4319. Yesterday, it touched
$1.4286, the lowest level since June 28. The dollar bought 80.92
yen from 80.91.  Temporary Default  Greece ’s efforts to emerge from its sovereign-debt crisis
could include a temporary default as part of a longer-term
recovery plan, said  Charles Dallara , managing director of the
 Institute of International Finance . In an interview with
Bloomberg Television in Paris yesterday, Dallara said market
participants shouldn’t be “fixated” on comments from any one
rating company.  China  is raising benchmark interest rates for the third
time this year after inflation accelerated to the fastest pace
since July 2008. The one-year lending rate will increase to 6.56
percent from 6.31 percent today, the People’s Bank of China said
on its website yesterday. The one-year deposit rate rises to 3.5
percent from 3.25 percent.  The euro snapped yesterday’s loss against the dollar and
yen after Moody’s said it differentiates “significantly” among
European periphery countries, suggesting it may not imminently
cut Ireland’s rating to junk in line with Portugal and Greece.  The  European Central Bank  will increase its main
refinancing rate to 1.50 percent today from 1.25 percent,
according to all 55 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
central bank may increase borrowing costs further in the fourth
quarter, according to a separate survey.  Trichet’s Comments  “The key for the ECB tonight will probably be the
accompanying press conference” by ECB President  Jean-Claude
Trichet , said Mike Burrowes, currency strategist at Bank of New
Zealand Ltd. in Wellington. “If he maintains that extremely
vigilant language on the inflation front, that will provide a
boost to the euro.”  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King ’s monetary policy may
diverge further from the rest of Europe today as officials keep
record-low  interest rates  to aid the recovery and guard against
threats from the Greek crisis. The BOE will hold the benchmark
rate at 0.5 percent, according to all 51 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey.  ECB, FED  Swaps traders are betting the ECB will raise its target
rate by 76.7 basis points over the next 12 months, a Credit
Suisse AG index showed. That’s up from 45.8 basis points a week
earlier. Another index forecasts 21 basis points of tightening
by the  Federal Reserve  for the same period.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 100,000 workers last month after a
54,000 increase in May that was the smallest in eight months,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News ahead of Labor Department data due tomorrow.
Economists predict the jobless rate held at 9.1 percent in June,
unchanged from its highest level so far this year.  The Australian dollar advanced against all of its 16 major
counterparts after the government today reported the number of
people employed rose by 23,400, led by a jump in full-time jobs.
That was higher than the median estimate for a 15,000 increase
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists. The jobless rate held
at 4.9 percent.  ‘Extremely Resilient’  “There’s overall a fairly tight labor market and it keeps
the policy direction of the RBA still pointing toward hikes,”
said Greg Gibbs, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in Sydney. “The currency’s been extremely resilient
to global factors and is bouncing because the data shows the
economy is fairly well balanced.”  Australia ’s dollar rose to $1.0742 from $1.0701. It gained
to 86.93 yen from 86.58 yen.  Yingluck, head of the Pheu Thai party, said  Thailand  will
allow the baht to appreciate against the dollar to help curb
imported inflation, the Wall Street Journal reported today.  “Yingluck’s remarks were a primary driver for the baht,”
said Shigehisa Shiroki, chief trader on the Asian and emerging-
markets team at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in  Tokyo . “The rate-
hike speculation is also supportive. The baht will remain under
appreciation pressure in the short term.”  The baht climbed 0.5 percent to 30.34 per dollar. It
reached 30.32 earlier, the strongest level since June 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 