-- 
European Stocks Fall on China Interest Rates, Portugal Downgrade

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-07-06T16:24:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/european-stock-index-futures-climb-stoxx-600-may-advance-for-eighth-day.html
European stocks declined, halting a
seven-day rally, as China raised interest rates and Moody’s
Investors Service cut Portugal’s credit rating to junk.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  and  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) 
led Portuguese banks lower, sliding more than 5 percent.
Carlsberg A/S, the owner of  Russia ’s biggest brewer, dropped 4.4
percent after a report that the nation may tighten regulation of
alcoholic-drink sales.  Scor SE (SCR) ,  France ’s largest reinsurer, lost
3.1 percent.  The benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 0.3 percent to
274.79 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London, ending the longest
winning streak in two months. The gauge had surged 4.4 percent
over the previous seven days as Greek lawmakers passed a five-
year austerity package, qualifying the country for further
European Union aid. The measure has still fallen 5.6 percent
from its February high amid speculation the region’s fiscal
crisis will derail the economic recovery.  “There’s concern from some people that  China  is pushing
the brakes on economic growth a little too hard,” said  Richard Hunter , head of U.K. equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc in
London. “We’ve by no means solved Europe’s debt problem and
that is going to need to be revisited again soon.”  Greek Meeting  Greece ’s bondholders met with officials in Paris today to
discuss a proposed rollover of the nation’s debt as EU leaders
insist that private investors contribute to a new aid package
for Greece after last year’s 110 billion-euro ($159 billion)
rescue.  Germany  revived a plan for a voluntary debt swap to
lengthen Greek bond maturities, underscoring how investors and
government officials are struggling to devise a role for
creditors in a bailout without triggering a default.  National benchmark indexes fell in all 18 western European
markets, except Iceland. France’s CAC 40 Index and the U.K.’s
FTSE 100 lost 0.4 percent, while Germany’s DAX Index retreated
0.1 percent.  Stocks extended losses as China raised benchmark  interest
rates  for the third time this year after inflation accelerated
to the fastest pace since July 2008. The one-year deposit rate
will rise to 3.5 percent from 3.25 percent from tomorrow, the
People’s Bank of China said. The one-year lending rate will
increase to 6.56 percent from 6.31 percent.  In the U.S., the Institute for Supply Management’s index of
non-manufacturing businesses decreased to 53.3 in June from 54.6
a month earlier. A reading above 50 signals expansion. The
measure was projected to drop to 53.7, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Germany Economy  A separate report in Germany showed factory orders
unexpectedly increased in May, led by domestic demand for
investment goods such as machinery. Orders, adjusted for
seasonal swings and inflation, rose 1.8 percent from April, when
they surged a revised 2.9 percent, the Economy Ministry in
Berlin said.  Banking shares had the worst performance among 19 industry
groups in the Stoxx 600 as lenders accounted the nine biggest
declines in the index. Moody’s downgraded Portugal’s credit
rating to Ba2 late yesterday as the nation joined Greece as the
second euro-region country with a non-investment grade rating.  “Portugal’s credit downgrade is definitely the news
spoiling the atmosphere today,” said Matthias Jasper, head of
equities at WGZ Bank AG in Dusseldorf. “We’re going to see a
small setback, but the environment for equities is still
positive.”  Portuguese Banks  Banco Espirito Santo, Portugal’s biggest publicly traded
bank by market value, slumped 5.7 percent to 2.46 euros while
Banco Comercial Portugues, the second-largest, sank 6.9 percent
to 36.7 euro cents.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, dropped 7.1 percent to
1.40 euros, the largest decline in more than a year.  Spain ’s
 Banco Santander SA (SAN)  retreated 2.1 percent to 7.85 euros.  “The fear of contagion to much bigger economies than the
Greek one looms, as Spain and Italy face elevated debt levels
and bleak economic outlook,” said Anita Paluch, a sales trader
at ETX Capital in London.  Carlsberg sank 4.4 percent to 545 kroner after Vedomosti
reported the Russian government may ban sales of drinks
containing more than 0.5 percent alcohol at night and in kiosks.  Scor retreated 3.1 percent to 18.95 euros, the biggest
decline since May. The reinsurer said it is boosting its capital
as it draws 75 million euros from a natural-catastrophe
financial coverage facility provided by UBS AG since the start
of the year.  Digital Multimedia, Mediaset  Digital Multimedia Technologies SpA (DMT)  and  Mediaset SpA (MS)  fell
1.7 percent to 20.17 euros and 3.9 percent to 3.12 euros,
respectively. Merger talks between Digital Multimedia and
Mediaset’s Elettronica Industriale SpA broadcast tower unit are
at risk after minority shareholders of DMT rejected an
investment plan,  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported, without saying where
it got the information.  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) , Europe’s largest maker of shoulder and
knee implants, climbed 1.7 percent to 684 pence amid takeover
speculation in the industry. Kinetic Concepts Inc., a maker of
wound-care products, is in exclusive talks to go private in
leveraged buyout, according to people with knowledge of the
matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer in  London  at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ; 