-- 
Ex-Commerzbank Metals Trader Challenges FSA Market-Abuse Ban

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-06T15:06:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/ex-commerzbank-metals-trader-challenges-fsa-market-abuse-ban-1-.html
Jason Anthony Geddis, a former metals
trader at  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ’s Dresdner Kleinwort unit, is
challenging the U.K. finance regulator’s decision to ban him
from working in the industry for allegedly committing market
abuse.  Geddis will argue that his misconduct was negligible and
not deliberate, Clare McMullen, a lawyer for the Financial
Services Authority, told a tribunal in London today.  He built a dominant trading position in a specific type
of lead warrants on the London Metal Exchange throughout a
morning in November 2008, McMullen said. The agency told Geddis
in June last year that it would fine him 25,000 pounds ($40,000)
and ban him.  The FSA banned 71 people from working in the industry and
issued fines of 98.5 million pounds in the year that ended March
31, 2011, according to the regulator’s annual report. Geddis
committed market abuse and violated LME trading guidelines by
building a position of more than 90 percent of warrants for lead
stockpiles, without lending back to the market, McMullen said.  “There’s no suggestion Mr. Geddis wasn’t aware of the size
of his position,” McMullen said. “He was also aware other
traders were seeking to borrow” in ring trading that day.  The lawyer also said that while Dresdner would have
profited $1.4 million from his trades, it didn’t take it, and
instead worked with LME to level the trades that day.  The LME fined Dresdner 150,000 pounds for Geddis’s actions,
an amount that was reduced because the bank cooperated with the
exchange and reduced their position that day.  A lawyer for Geddis will present his argument later in the
hearing, which is scheduled to last three days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net . 