-- 
Explosion Injures Soldiers at Check Point in Nigerian City of Maiduguri

-- B y   A r d o   H a z z a d   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-07-06T11:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/explosion-injures-soldiers-at-check-point-in-nigerian-city-of-maiduguri.html
An explosion near a military check-
point in  Nigeria ’s northeastern city of Maiduguri injured
several soldiers, an army commander said, the latest in a series
of attacks blamed on Islamic militants.  “Although no one was killed, some of my men sustained
injuries,” Major-General Jack Nwaogbo, commander of a military
 task force  in charge of security in the region, said today by
phone. Streets around the city have been blocked for a “cordon
and search operation,” he said.  In a separate incident, police shot and wounded five
suspected Islamic militants after a raid on their hideout in the
northeastern Bauchi state, Mohammed Barau, a police spokesman,
told reporters today in the state capital. Suspected Islamic
gunmen also attacked a police station yesterday in Toro, about
100 kilometers (62 miles) from Bauchi city, stealing weapons,
Ahmed Getso, a spokesman for the local government, told
reporters.  Nigerian authorities blame Boko Haram, an Islamic sect that
draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement, for a
spate of bombings and killings targeting government officials
and security forces in Africa’s top oil producer. Suspected
militants killed 10 people in bomb and gun attacks in Maiduguri
on July 3, Nwaogbo said.  The group also claimed responsibility for a blast on June
16 at Nigeria’s police headquarters in the capital, Abuja, which
killed at least five people and injured 11.  Boko Haram has set conditions for peace talks with
President Goodluck Jonathan that include the introduction of
Sharia law in the country’s northern states, Usman al-Zawahiri,
a spokesman for the group, said on June 13.  More than 14,000 people died in ethnic and religious
clashes between 1999 and 2009 in Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil
producer and most populous nation, according to the Brussels-
based  International Crisis Group .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 