-- 
Facebook Ad Rates Hold as Inventory Rises, Easing Price Concerns

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/facebook-eases-concern-about-falling-ad-rates-by-holding-its-prices-steady.html
Facebook  Inc., the biggest social
network, said advertising rates have held up even after it added
new ways for marketers to promote products, allaying concern
that prices would decline as inventory surged.  Rates for so-called self-serve ads, which are sold through
an automated auction system and account for most of sales, are
unchanged since March, when the company completed a redesign to
add promotions under photos and increase the number of spots on
some pages to as many as five from three, Facebook said.  “We have hundreds of thousands of advertisers around the
world -- that continues to grow,” said David Fischer, vice
president, advertising and global operations. Without disclosing
rates, he said, “We continue to feel good about where we are.”  Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg, seeking to profit
from advertisers trying to reach his company’s 714 million
users, needs to sustain ad prices amid competition from  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  and Twitter Inc. Facebook must also avoid alienating users
with a deluge of promotions, said Michael Gartenberg, an analyst
at research firm Gartner Inc.  “There’s a certain point where you get a backlash, like
watching a TV show with too many commercials,” Gartenberg said.
“Right now we’re not seeing any backlash, but it’s something
they’re going to have to keep tweaking in terms of design.”  Facebook’s Fischer says the company takes steps to ensure
that new ad features don’t drive users away.  ‘Constantly Testing’  “We’re constantly testing new ad formats,” Fischer said.
“We’ve found, frankly, that users are getting value and
advertisers getting value in putting more ads in.”  Facebook, which gets more of Web users’ time than any other
site, will more than double global ad revenue to $4.05 billion
this year, according to  EMarketer Inc. , an Internet research
firm based in  New York .  “Facebook is really offering advertising that can attract
companies large and small,” said Debra Aho Williamson, an
EMarketer analyst. “It’s really gunning on all fronts.”  About 60 percent of Facebook’s advertising revenue comes
from self-serve ads, Williamson said. Companies bid for spots on
user pages based on those people’s demographics or interests.
These ads typically show up on profile pages or near photos.  The rest of revenue comes from ads placed on the home
pages, where users typically begin sessions on the site. These
spots are sold by Facebook’s in-house marketing staff.  Price Swings  As Facebook tested new features in recent months, some
companies that help businesses buy ads on the site experienced
price swings.  The average cost per click for self-serve ads dropped to 95
cents from $1.36 in June, said Hussein Fazal, CEO of  AdParlor
Inc. , a Toronto-based promotion-placement company.  Another Internet advertising service,  IgnitionOne Inc. ,
said U.S.  spending  by repeat Facebook clients surged 22 percent
in the second quarter.  Game developer Casual Collective Inc., doing business as
 Kixeye , has had prices increases of about 20 percent over the
past six months as it has used more targeted ads, said CEO Will
Harbin. He spends more than $1 million a month of Facebook and
credits those promotions with a more than 10-fold increase in
customers.  “It’s been profitable and we’ve grown our games, so it’s
gone quite well,” Harbin said. “It’s much easier to target the
correct demographic on Facebook.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  