-- 
Facebook to Offer Video Calls Through Skype, Boosting Rivalry With Google

-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 
2011-07-06T20:31:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/facebook-to-offer-free-skype-video-calls-on-its-networking-site-with-skype.html
Facebook Inc., the world’s largest
social network, is stepping up competition with Google Inc. by
teaming with Skype Technologies SA to offer free video calls.  Facebook also said it has more than 750 million users, up
from 500 million, in an announcement today at an event in  Palo
Alto ,  California , where it is based. Microsoft Corp., a long-
time Facebook partner, is acquiring Skype in an $8.5 billion
deal expected to close later this year.  Video chats can help Facebook fend off competition from
Google, which introduced a social network with that feature last
week, and offer an alternative to Apple Inc.’s FaceTime for the
iPhone. Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  is using
partnerships and media features to increase Facebook’s audience
and avert user defections.  “You’re going to have more and more competition between
Facebook and Google,” said  Ben Schachter , an analyst at
Macquarie Capital, in an interview on Bloomberg TV’s “Bottom
Line with Mark Crumpton.” “The two companies are going to be
battling it out for some time to come.”  Facebook also unveiled a multi-person chat feature that
lets several people hold online conversations at the same time.  ‘Cool New Scenarios’  “We’re using the best technology that’s out there for doing
video chat with the best social infrastructure that’s out there
in order to create some really cool new scenarios,” Zuckerberg
said during a presentation at the event.  Facebook began holding talks with Skype about offering Web
video calls on its social network in 2010, a person familiar
with the discussions said earlier this year. An October update
to Skype included voice calling between Facebook friends.
Microsoft agreed to buy Skype in May.  “This is a really strategic long term deal between Skype
and Facebook,” said  Neil Stevens , vice president and general
manager for consumer at Skype, in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. “This isn’t just a one shot one deal implementation
of a product. This is a long term relationship.”  Google’s new site, called Google+, includes Google’s maps
and images, messages, comments and other content from selected
groups of friends, as well as a video chat feature.  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , invested $240
million in Facebook in 2007 and entered an agreement to sell ads
on the social network.  Facebook is forging ties with other media and technology
companies. It added Netflix Inc. CEO Reed Hastings to its board
of directors in June and discussed incorporating more social
features into the online video-streaming service. In March, Time
Warner Inc.’s Warner Bros. studio announced plans to offer movie
rentals on Facebook for $3.  Facebook is valued at $71 billion on SharesPost Inc., an
exchange for shares of private companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net 
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  