-- 
Facebook’s Zynga Sales to Reach $500 Million This Year, GreenCrest Says

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-07-06T22:07:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/facebook-s-zynga-sales-to-reach-500-million-this-year-greencrest-says.html
Zynga Inc., the online game company
that’s preparing for an initial public offering, will generate
$500 million in revenue for Facebook Inc. this year, according
to GreenCrest Capital Management LLC.  The maker of “FarmVille” and “CityVille” will pay $100
million for advertising on the social network, and Facebook’s 30
percent cut of virtual-goods sales in games will bring in $400
million, said Nitsan Hargil, an analyst at GreenCrest, in a
conference call today. That represents about 10 percent of
Facebook’s total revenue, he estimated.  “Zynga is a very, very significant customer and we do not
foresee that changing,” said Hargil, who’s based in  New York .  Zynga, owner of the four most popular Facebook games,
announced plans last week to raise $1 billion in an IPO, which
would mark the biggest offering for a U.S. Web company since
Google Inc. in 2004. Facebook, the world’s largest social
network, accounted for “substantially all” of Zynga’s revenue
in its four-year history, according to the prospectus.  Bookings, which include sales and deferred revenue, more
than doubled last year to $838.9 million from $328.1 million in
2009. GreenCrest estimates bookings this year at the San
Francisco-based company will almost double again to $1.6
billion.  Virtual-Goods Market  Zynga games are free to play, with the company making money
from selling virtual items within applications, such as a
townhouse in “CityVille” or a shipyard in “Empires &
Allies.” The worldwide virtual-goods market will more than
double to $20.3 billion in 2014, from $9.28 billion last year,
according to ThinkEquity LLC, a San Francisco-based research
firm. Facebook takes 30 percent of virtual-goods sales on its
network.  Hargil predicts that Zynga will end up raising as much as
$2 billion in its offering, which he expects to occur in October
or November. The company has almost $1 billion in cash and
received a credit line of about $1 billion from its
underwriters. That means Zynga will have about $4 billion as it
looks to grow through acquisitions, Hargil said.  Zynga has acquired at least 10 companies in the past year,
helping it expand beyond Facebook games and into smartphone
apps. The company bought Newtoy Inc., the maker of “Words With
Friends,” in December. Four months later, it acquired
Wonderland Software, creator of the game “GodFinger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  