-- 
FDA Seeks $1.4 Billion for Food-Safety Law as Budget Faces Cuts

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/fda-seeks-1-4-billion-for-food-safety-law-as-budget-faces-cuts.html
The  Food and Drug
Administration , charged with preventing E. coli outbreaks
similar to the one that sickened thousands in Europe, is
trying to wedge $1.4 billion for a new food-safety law into
a budget that Republicans have already cut for next year.  A vote in the Republican-controlled House last month
to reduce the FDA’s fiscal 2012 food-safety budget by 10
percent to $752 million, the agency estimates, will slow the
law’s progress if enacted, say supporters of the January
legislation. Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia 
Republican who oversees the budgets of the FDA and the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture , said increases are unneccessary
because the food supply is “99.9 percent safe."  That view may be short-sighted, given the type of
epidemic in Europe, said Bill Marler, a Seattle attorney
who represents food poisoning victims. The outbreak among
those who ate German-grown sprouts was deadlier than earlier
E. coli epidemics because it combined traits of two strains,
raising risks for a potentially fatal kidney complications.  “We have all of the tools to prevent a disaster like
 Germany ’s,” Marler said in an interview. “It’s just a
matter of, are we willing to pay for it.”  The FDA is working on rules to reduce contamination
risks for fresh produce, required under the law that
overhauled the  food-safety  system for the first time since
1938. The statute would cost  $1.4 billion  through 2015, the
Congressional Budget Office estimates. The House cut would
need to be passed by the Senate and signed by President
 Barack Obama  to become law.  Spinach Outbreak  An E. coli outbreak linked to Dole Food Co. spinach
five years ago led to 205 illnesses in the U.S. and
triggered calls for federal safeguards. Cases since then
included a 2008 salmonella outbreak tied to imported
peppers, and peanuts contaminated with salmonella that
killed at least nine people and sickened more than 700 in
2008 and 2009. Nestle ice creams and Keebler cookies from
Battle Creek, Michigan-based  Kellogg Co. (K)  were among peanut-
containing items that had to be withdrawn.  Potential cuts are “enormously worrisome” for
officials tracking an increasingly complex global food-
supply chain, FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  said.
“We’re facing a situation where we are being asked to do
more with less, and we really feel that this is of enormous
concern to the American people,” she said on a June 20
conference call with reporters.  The FDA regulates 80 percent of the U.S.  food supply ,
including produce, while the Department of Agriculture
oversees the safety of meat, poultry and egg products.  $152-Billion Cost  Food poisoning strikes an estimated 48 million people
in the U.S. each year, leading to 128,000 hospitalizations
and 3,000 deaths, according to the  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention . Foodborne illnesses cost the
nation’s economy about $152 billion a year in health-care
expenses and lost productivity, according to a 2010  report 
by Georgetown University’s  Produce Safety Project  in
 Washington .  The CDC has been tracking E. coli since 1993, when the
bacteria killed four children and sickened more than 700
people who had eaten undercooked hamburgers from the Jack
in the Box fast-food chain, based in  San Diego . There have
been 234 beef recalls in the U.S. related to the pathogen
since then, the CDC said June 7 in a  report .  The food-safety law was prompted partly by the 2006
recall of E. coli-tainted spinach from Westlake Village,
California-based Dole, the world’s largest producer of
fresh fruits and vegetables.  Idaho-grown sprouts caused  21 salmonella illnesses  in
five states starting in April, the Atlanta-based CDC said
June 28.  ‘A Wakeup Call’  The unrelated outbreak in  Europe , also linked to
sprouts, was the world’s biggest E. coli epidemic,
sickening more than  4,100 people  in 13 European countries
and killing at least 49. Though most of the illnesses
occurred in Germany, the E. coli strain sickened as many as
18 people in  France , the European Centre for Disease
Control and Prevention said July 1.  “What’s happened in Europe is a wakeup call,” U.S.
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said June 13, responding
to questions after a speech at the  National Press Club .
“It requires us to be continually vigilant about food
safety. It’s an everyday responsibility.”  The produce regulations will deal with sprout safety,
said Douglas Karas, an FDA spokesman. Raw and lightly
cooked  sprouts  have caused at least 30 foodborne illness
outbreaks in the U.S. since 1996, according to the CDC.  Raw sprouts are riskier than most other types of
produce because they are grown in warm, humid conditions
where E. coli and salmonella can thrive, according to the
federal  FoodSafety.gov  website. The E. coli strain found in
Europe hasn’t been identified in U.S. food sources.  ‘Nanny State’  The House-approved spending bill reduces USDA food
safety program funding by 3.9 percent from fiscal year 2011
to $972.7 million. Total FDA spending, including its food-
safety programs, would be $2.2 billion, a 12 percent
decline from fiscal 2011.  The CDC estimate of 48 million foodborne illnesses a
year is less than one-tenth of 1 percent of the 340 billion
meals consumed annually by 311 million people in the U.S.,
Kingston, the Georgia congressman, said June 15 on the
House floor.  “Something’s working without the FDA and without the
USDA and without the nanny state saying, ‘We’re in charge
of everything,’” Kingston said.  The law aims to improve coordination among federal and
state officials for faster detection of outbreaks and their
sources. It may help more agencies emulate states such as
 Minnesota  and  Oregon  that have been instrumental in solving
nationwide foodborne epidemics, said Marler, the Seattle
attorney.  Minnesota’s Experience  In Minnesota, a group of investigators traced one of
the 2008 salmonella scourges to peanuts and another to
Mexican-grown peppers. Oregon identified spinach as the
cause of the 2006 E. coli outbreak.  Budget reductions in Minnesota and other states may
hinder such efforts and “cut an enormous hole in our food-
safety net,” Marler said.  The House-approved budget cuts probably won’t hamper
the FDA’s development of produce-safety rules, said David
Gombas, senior vice president for food safety and
technology at the Washington-based United Fresh Produce
Association.  Spending reductions may slow implementation of other
aspects of the food-safety law, said Gombas, in an
interview.  Rules the FDA develops in the next two years will
“shape food safety for the next few decades,” said Scott Faber, vice president for federal affairs at the Grocery
Manufacturers Association, a Washington trade group with
members including  Nestle SA (NESN)  of Vevey,  Switzerland , and
Northfield, Illinois-based  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , the world’s
two biggest food companies.  Resources Needed  “The funding needs ultimately will grow, not in
fiscal 2012 or 2013, but in subsequent years to meet
inspection mandates,” Faber said in an interview. “If the
agency doesn’t have more resources further down the road,
the FDA won’t be able to retrain its inspectors and fulfill
the promise of the food-safety reforms.”  Agriculture Department rules are also evolving, with a
proposal submitted to the White House in January to test
for E. coli strains beyond the so-called O157 type
implicated in the Jack in the Box recall. The plan is being
evaluated by the White House Office of Management and
Budget, said Alfred Almanza, head of the department’s Food
Safety and Inspection Service, in a June 29 interview.  Representative Rosa DeLauro of  Connecticut , the
ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations agriculture
subcommittee, said the White House is dragging its feet.
The food safety agency “should not be deterred from its
work to protect the public health from known risks in the
meat and poultry supply,” she wrote in a June 22 letter to
the Obama administration.  Multiple Strains  A government surveillance network that tracks
foodborne illnesses in 10 states identified 442 cases of
O157 E. coli last year, down from 459 in 2009. The system,
known as  FoodNet , found 451 cases of other E. coli strains
last year, a 71 percent increase over 2009.  The FDA hasn’t decided whether its produce-safety rule
will require testing for other E. coli strains, such as the
one found in Europe, Karas said.  Tests for non-O157 forms of E. coli aren’t advanced
enough to give reliable results, said Jim Hodges, executive
vice president of the American Meat Institute, a trade
group whose members include  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest
U.S. meatpacker.  The European outbreak highlighted a need for better
science in learning more about the virulence of E. coli
strains, not the type, Hodges said.  “There is going to be a lot we can learn from
this,” he said.  Fallout From Europe  The food-safety law also calls for FDA pilot programs
that will test faster ways of tracing outbreak sources.  “The big thing that I think will come out of what
happened in Germany is going to be the pilot projects,”
said David Plunkett, a senior staff attorney at the Center
for Science in the Public Interest, a public policy group
in Washington. The FDA should “look at the German
experience and look for the failures and ask, how can we
model this so we can see whether or not we can develop a
system that will avoid that problem,” he said.  Faster traceability will reduce costs for companies
linked to outbreaks, said Erik Olson, director of food
programs at the Pew Health Group in Washington.  “The better the traceback system is, the more
companies will save when there are recalls,” Olson said.
“If they can wall off just a very limited number of
shipments that are contaminated, that means the vast
majority of the food can continue to be consumed and will
not recalled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net 
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net 
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  