-- 
FDIC Adopts Pay Clawback Rule for Largest Bank Resolutions

-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 
2011-07-06T16:24:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/fdic-adopts-rule-to-claw-back-bank-pay.html
Regulators would be able to claw back
some pay from top U.S. financial executives if their company
were liquidated by the government, under a rule adopted by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  FDIC board members voted unanimously today to finalize the
rule, which is part of the agency’s expanded authority under the
Dodd-Frank Act to resolve the largest financial firms.  “We need shareholders and creditors out there conducting
their own due diligence and asking the tough questions of
executives and management,” FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair , who will
leave the agency at the end of this week, said in Washington
today.  The rule authorizes the FDIC to recover pay for the two
years preceding its appointment as receiver from senior
executives and directors “substantially responsible” for the
firm’s failure. The agency would determine the size of the
clawback after evaluating an executive’s role in the
shareholders’ overall losses after liquidation.  Dodd-Frank, the financial-regulation overhaul enacted last
July, expanded the FDIC’s resolution authority from winding down
failed banks to also untangling the affairs of systemically
important nonbanks when they collapse. Congress sought the
liquidation authority after the September 2008 bankruptcy of
 Lehman Brothers  Holdings Inc. exacerbated the credit crisis and
highlighted the interconnectedness of the largest financial
companies.  Creditor Pay  The clawback provision was adopted as part of a broader
rule aimed at setting the framework for the FDIC’s orderly
liquidation powers. The final rule included provisions laying
out the order in which creditors would be paid in the event of a
resolution.  “This rule will have a direct impact on market
interactions, and that’s kind of the idea,” Bair said.  Lawmakers directed regulators to rein in executive pay
after incentive-based compensation was faulted for inspiring
risk-taking at firms such as Lehman Brothers and  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer that was rescued by the
government.  A coalition of the largest banking trade groups,
representing firms including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , filed a  comment letter  with the agency in May
calling parts of the rule “fundamentally unjustifiable and
counterproductive.”  ‘Revolving Door’  “Such a rule could encourage a revolving door of senior
executives and directors seeking to avoid recoupment, a
situation that would undermine, rather than promote,
stability,” the groups wrote in the May 23 letter, which was
signed by executives from the Financial Services Roundtable,
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,  American
Bankers Association  and  The Clearing House Association .  The agency, in changes to the initial proposal released in
March, clarified that an executive or director would be
considered substantially responsible if there was a failure to
conduct their responsibilities “with the degree of skill and
care an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would
exercise under similar circumstances.”  Acting Comptroller of the Currency  John Walsh , who had
voiced apprehension about the executive compensation piece of
the proposal in March, called the clarifications a “good
change.”  Living Wills  Bair said another part of the FDIC’s Dodd-Frank
responsibilities would likely be completed in August. Along with
the  Federal Reserve  it has been crafting a proposal designed to
guide banks and other large firms in writing so-called living
wills -- plans that would enable them to be unwound in an
orderly fashion if they failed. Bair had been pushing to finish
the task before she left office.  Under the living-will rules, companies with at least $50
billion in assets will be required to provide information on
debt, funding, capital and cash flows. Firms that fail to file
workable resolution plans could be subject to increased capital,
leverage or liquidity requirements, and restrictions on growth
or operations.  “Clarity is important and with respect to the resolution
plans, the sooner the agencies can articulate what the
procedural and substantive requirements are for resolution plan
activity, the better off we’re all going to be,” said Thomas Curry, an FDIC director and President Barack Obama’s nominee to
be the next Comptroller of the Currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  