-- 
First Quantum Won’t Sell Its Congolese Plant to ENRC, Pursues Mining Right

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-07-06T20:45:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/first-quantum-won-t-sell-its-congolese-plant-to-enrc-pursues-mine-rights.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) , the
copper miner that lost Congo mining rights to Eurasian Natural
Resources Corp., said it won’t sell a processing plant in the
country to ENRC because it still expects to restore its license.  First Quantum is “focused” on pursuing its “rights” to
the Kolwezi project “through legal action against ENRC and any
redress must take into account the full extent of the loss that
has been suffered,” First Quantum President  Clive Newall  said
in an e-mail today. “To suggest that the issue of the plant can
somehow be dealt with separately outside the framework of a full
and fair settlement is completely disingenuous.”  The Democratic Republic of Congo shuttered the $750 million
Kolwezi copper venture and revoked First Quantum’s license in
August 2009, saying the Vancouver-based miner hadn’t fulfilled
its contractual obligations, a claim the company denied. First
Quantum entered international arbitration with the government
and sued ENRC units after the license was transferred the
following year.  ENRC’s acting Chief Executive Officer Felix Vulis said July
4 that the Kazakh ferroalloy producer may build its own plant at
the Kolwezi project as First Quantum hadn’t responded to several
approaches regarding the existing plant. That facility had been
nearing completion before First Quantum’s license was canceled.  Copper Prices  When it purchased the Kolwezi concession, ENRC expected
that it would either complete work on the plant itself or that
First Quantum would do so and sell the operation to ENRC,
Richard Sykes, a former senior independent director at ENRC,
said in a June 29 telephone interview.  Congo, which confiscated the plant last year, should ensure
that it becomes productive to take advantage of higher copper
prices, Sykes said.  “By the beginning of 2011, this should’ve been sorted,”
he said.  Congo is still awaiting the result of the arbitration
bewteen First Quantum and ENRC in Paris, Mines Minister  Martin Kabwelulu  said in an SMS text message today. Telephone calls
made by Bloomberg News to the office managing the liquidation of
First Quantum’s assets weren’t answered.  Sykes and another ENRC independent director, Ken Olisa,
were ousted from the board in June. Olisa said in a July 1
interview that ENRC’s Kolwezi purchase exacerbated friction
between the board and its main shareholders, Alexander
Machkevitch, Alijan Ibragimov and Patokh Chodiev, who founded
the company.  While it was an “ethical transaction,” ENRC could have
better communicated the circumstances of the deal in the face of
media criticism that the process wasn’t transparent, Olisa said.
Paul Judge, another independent director, voted against the
deal, saying it may harm ENRC’s reputation, Olisa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 