-- 
Reports of Former China President Jiang Zemin’s Death ‘Rumor,’ Xinhua Says

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-07-07T09:12:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/former-chinese-president-jiang-zemin-critically-ill-hong-kong-media-say.html
Overseas media reports that former
Chinese President  Jiang Zemin  died from illness are “pure
rumor,” the official Xinhua News Agency reported today, citing
“authoritative sources” it didn’t further identify.  The one-sentence English-language Xinhua report didn’t say
what media issued the reports or give more information about
Jiang. Hong Kong’s Asia Television Ltd. reported last night that
Jiang had died, without saying where it got the information. The
television station said it retracted its report and offered
apologies to Jiang and his family in a statement issued today.  Jiang,  China ’s president from 1993 to 2003 and general
secretary of the  Communist Party of China  from 1989 to 2002, was
absent from last week’s 90th anniversary of the party, sparking
speculation his health was failing. The 84-year-old is suffering
from cancer, the  Standard  reported today, citing an unidentified
person. Jiang has diabetes and may have died from a heart attack,
the Oriental Daily reported, without citing anyone.  Lew Mon-hung, a Hong Kong representative to the  Chinese
People’s Political Consultative Conference , said a Chinese
“state-level” leader didn’t deny Jiang had died when asked,
the Chinese-language Oriental Daily reported.  In China, online searches related to Jiang are being
blocked, the Washington Post and  Wall Street Journal  both
reported. The country’s Sina.com site didn’t respond to requests
using Jiang’s name, the Washington Post said.  Searches on Sina using the Chinese character for “river,”
which is what Jiang translates to, were also blocked, the
Journal reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at   fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at   sjames8@bloomberg.net  