-- 
French Sugar Yields May Reach Record on Temperatures, ITB Says

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-06T12:50:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/french-sugar-yields-may-reach-record-on-temperatures-itb-says.html
Sugar yields in  France , the world’s
largest sugar-beet producer, may rise to a record this year
after early sowing and warm April weather boosted plant growth,
said researcher Institut Technique de la Betterave.  The average amount of sugar derived from a hectare (2.47
acres) of beets in France may jump to 15.4 metric tons, the
median of a forecast range, the Paris-based ITB said in a  report 
on its website. That compares with 13.1 tons last year and the
current record of 14.5 tons set in 2009.  France had its second-hottest April since 1900 this year
and also one of the driest since 1953, according to the
 Agriculture Ministry . Rain in June was slightly above normal,
and beets will need more water to replenish dry soils, the ITB
said.  “We haven’t at all caught up on the hydrological
deficit,” Fabienne Maupas, a researcher at the ITB, said via
phone today. “The soil-water reserves are very low, so if we
get no rain, yields could be at the lower end.”  The ITB’s estimated range for the average yield runs from
13.6 tons to 16.5 tons a hectare, based on beet development
every year since 1998. The outlook is for yields on Oct. 20, the
average date of beet harvesting in France, Maupas said.  “Summer rainfall obviously remains very determinative,”
the ITB said. “Despite the rains in June, water reserves in the
soils remain weak, close to the survival buffer in all regions,
and a dry summer therefore would be very punishing.”  The rain deficit in France’s beet-growing regions since
January was 152 millimeters (5.9 inches) at the end of June. The
amount of rain across the growing area last month ranged from 45
millimeters to 110 millimeters, ITB said.  “Rains enabled beet growth to take off again,” which may
permit “very high productivity,” the researcher said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 