-- 
Gasoline Advances on Speculation U.S. Labor Market Improved

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-07-06T20:07:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/gasoline-declines-as-u-s-job-cuts-increase-china-raises-rates.html
Gasoline gained on speculation that
U.S. employers added jobs in June and fewer Americans applied
for first-time jobless claims last week, indicating the labor
market is improving and demand for motor fuel will increase.  Futures rose 0.7 percent as the Labor Department may report
on July 8 that payrolls climbed by 100,000 workers in June,
after a 54,000 increase that was the smallest in eight months,
according to the median forecast of a Bloomberg News survey.
Another department report tomorrow may show initial jobless
claims fell last week to 420,000 from 428,000 the prior week.  “People are buying refined products based on the belief
they are going to be worth more than crude,” said  Peter Beutel ,
president of trading advisory company Cameron Hanover Inc. in
 New Canaan , Connecticut. “There’s some expectation we may see a
better employment number than we have seen.”  Gasoline for August delivery gained 2.02 cents to settle at
$2.9976 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices
have risen six of the past seven days, gaining 8 percent.  Economists in the survey predict the  unemployment rate 
remained at 9.1 percent in June.  U.S. gasoline stockpiles probably fell 150,000 barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of 16 analysts in
another survey by Bloomberg. Supplies of industrial, trucking
and home-heating fuels rose 900,000 barrels, according to the
survey. The department is scheduled to report on inventories
tomorrow, a day later than usual because of the July 4
Independence Day holiday.  “There was some late gasoline buying, and a little bit of
an anticipation of a drawdown over the weekend and improved
demand,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount
Options Inc. in  New York .  Retail Demand  Demand at the pump in the week ended July 1 was 2.4 percent
higher than the prior week, according to MasterCard Inc.’s
SpendingPulse report today. Consumption was 0.9 percent below a
year earlier and, based on the four-week average, fell for the
15th straight week.  Futures lost as much as 1.1 percent earlier after reports
of greater U.S. job cuts and higher  interest rates  in China
raised concern that global fuel demand growth may falter.
Gasoline reversed a loss as the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
strengthened, rising 0.4 percent as of 3:12 p.m. in New York.  “The market seems much keener to follow equities around
the planet,” Beutel said.  Job Cuts  Employers planned to fire 5.3 percent more workers last
month than a year earlier, according to Chicago-based
Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc.   China  raised benchmark
interest rates for the third time this year, increasing concern
the world’s fastest-growing economy is slowing and fuel demand
will weaken.  “The Challenger report and China’s interest rate increase
seem to suggest that demand is not going to be stronger, it’s
going to be weaker,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of
research at PFGBest in  Chicago .  Heating oil for August delivery added 0.67 cent to settle
at $2.9633 a gallon on the exchange.  Regular gasoline at the pump rose 0.7 cent to $3.569 a
gallon yesterday, according to AAA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J. Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  