-- 
Germany Wants Greek Bond Swap Considered, Official Says

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-07-06T15:28:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/germany-wants-greek-bond-swap-back-on-the-table-official-says.html
Germany  revived a proposal for a
Greek bond swap that would involve a voluntary exchange of debt
against bonds with a longer maturity, as officials struggle to
devise a role for creditors in a bailout of  Greece .  Discussions on a bond swap have become possible again after
rating companies indicated that a French model to roll over debt
would create a so-called rating event, a German official said by
phone in Berlin today on condition of anonymity because
negotiations are private. While a bond swap might create a
rating event, the German government sees it as limited to a very
short time, the official said.  The German move breathes fresh life into a proposal
outlined by Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  in a June 6
letter addressed to European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet , the International Monetary Fund’s then-acting chief,
 John Lipsky , and fellow euro-area finance ministers. In it,
Schaeuble said maturities should be extended by seven years to
give the debt-wracked nation time to overhaul its economy.  Schaeuble told reporters in Berlin today he sees “many
arguments in favor of alternatives” to the French proposal
after it became clear that the plan was fraught with problems.
The alternatives will be discussed through September, he said.  Resurrecting the plan risks setting Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government back on a collision course with Trichet as
Merkel and Schaeuble strive to fulfill a commitment to enroll
banks in aid for Greece. Trichet said last month that pushing
private-sector involvement would be an “enormous mistake” for
the euro region.  Schaeuble, Steinbrueck  Schaeuble, in a speech in Berlin last night, said that he
agreed “100 percent” with his predecessor in Merkel’s first-
term government,  Peer Steinbrueck , who said when he was still in
office that all political decisions should be taken in agreement
with the ECB.  About 20 banks and insurance companies met in Paris today
to discuss the role of bondholders in a new Greek aid plan, said
the  Institute of International Finance , a banking-lobby group
that hosted the gathering. Talks began last week in  Rome  under
the auspices of IIF Managing Director  Charles Dallara , a former
U.S. Treasury official.  “I don’t think that a temporary period of selective
default as it has been narrowly framed for sovereigns in the
past is necessarily the worst thing that could happen here,”
Dallara told Bloomberg Television today. “What’s most important
is that if there is a judgment of selective default, that it
happens within a framework of something the markets can see as a
broader solution and that it’s a rather temporary period.”  German Banks  German banks and insurers including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
 Allianz SE (ALV)  agreed in principle last week to contribute to a debt
rollover for Greece based on the French model that aims to
contribute a total of about 30 billion euros ($43 billion) to
the second Greek bailout.  That plan was thrown into disarray on July 4 when  Standard
& Poor’s  said the debt rollover might temporarily place the
country in “selective default.”  Even so, a declaration of selective default may cause
limited harm as long as the ECB keeps accepting the debt as
collateral, HSBC Holdings Plc said the same day.  The S&P view means there is no longer any reason not to
discuss the bond swap idea, the German official said.  Merkel warned yesterday against too much weight being
placed on the ratings companies, saying that the so-called
troika of the IMF, ECB and European Commission mustn’t
“surrender our ability to make judgments.”  “I place my trust above all in the assessments of these
three institutions,” she told reporters in Berlin yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.netor  