-- 
German Factory Orders Rise on Domestic Demand

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-07-06T10:53:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/german-factory-orders-rise-on-domestic-demand.html
Factory orders in  Germany ,  Europe ’s
largest economy, unexpectedly increased in May, led by domestic
demand for investment goods such as machinery.  Orders, adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
increased 1.8 percent from April, when they surged a revised 2.9
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said in a statement
today. Economists had forecast a drop of 0.5 percent, according
to the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. In the
year, orders rose 12.2 percent, when adjusted for work days.  German business confidence unexpectedly improved in June,
suggesting companies in Europe’s largest economy are confident
they can weather the storm of an intensifying debt crisis in the
region. While growth is likely to be “considerably weaker” in
the second quarter this “should not be interpreted as an
economic slowdown,” the Bundesbank said on June 20.  “Germany seems to weather any kind of global soft patch,”
said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels.
“The economy will enjoy vibrant growth this year with a
rebalancing of external and domestic demand in coming months.”  The Ifo institute in Munich last month forecast the economy
to expand 3.3 percent this year, saying it has entered a broad
and prolonged recovery. It had previously projected gross
domestic product to grow 2.4 percent.  Domestic Demand  German companies have relied on faster-growing markets to
boost sales as governments across the 17-member euro region
stepped up spending cuts to plug budget gaps. Portugal’s credit
rating was cut to below investment grade by Moody’s Investors
Service yesterday on concern the country will need to follow
 Greece  in seeking a second bailout.  German domestic orders of investment goods jumped 20
percent in May from a month earlier. Demand for intermediate
goods rose 1.6 percent, while orders of  consumer goods  fell 1.5
percent, today’s report showed. Foreign demand dropped 5.8
percent and domestic orders surged 11.3 percent from April.  “Again, bulk orders significantly supported the
development,” pushing domestic demand, the ministry said. “All
in all, the upward trend for orders remains intact despite a
dampening impact from abroad and therefore also the outlook for
industrial production is favorable.”  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  Porsche Automobil Holding SE (PAH3)  are poised
for further “distinct growth” even with conditions in the
world economy “challenging,” Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said on June 17. German rival  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of luxury cars, said last
month deliveries jumped 22 percent in May.  ‘Golden Decade’  The German economy is showing mixed signs of slowdown as
the region’s debt crisis worsens and rising energy costs squeeze
household incomes. Business confidence increased to 114.5 in
June, remaining close to a record high of 115.4 posted in
February and unemployment dropped for a 24th straight month in
June. Manufacturing growth weakened in June and investor
confidence fell for a fourth straight month.  “Germany is experiencing a golden decade, it has done its
homework and is extraordinarily competitive,” said Christian Schulz, an economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co. in  London .
“However, there are also risks such as the euro crisis or a
renewed surge in  oil prices .”  The European Central Bank tomorrow will raise its benchmark
interest rate by 25 basis points to 1.5 percent, according to
all 55 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The Frankfurt-based
central bank will release its decision at 1:45 p.m. followed by
a press conference 45 minutes later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  