-- 
Ghana Central Bank Cuts Key Interest Rate by Half-Point as Inflation Slows

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-07-06T17:04:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/ghana-central-bank-cuts-key-interest-rate-by-half-point-as-inflation-slows.html
Ghana’s  central bank cut its
benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point, the second
reduction in two months, to help spur lending and as a stronger
currency curbs inflation.  The key lending rate was reduced to 12.5 percent, Bank of
 Ghana  Governor Kwesi Amissah-Arthur told reporters today in the
capital, Accra. Two of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
forecast the reduction, while the rest expected it to be left
unchanged.  “Inflation is going down and we don’t see the banks
responding” to lower  interest rates , Amissah-Arthur said. “The
bank is confident that the annual inflation target of 9 percent
is achievable.”  Inflation slowed to 8.9 percent in May from 9 percent the
month before as the effects of a 30 percent increase in gasoline
prices in January eased and the cedi stabilized. The currency,
which weakened as much as 5.7 percent in the first five weeks of
the year, has gained 3.5 percent since Feb. 1, trading as high
as 1.5137 per dollar today.  “There is room to cut because inflation remains benign,”
Yvonne Mhango, a Johannesburg-based sub-Saharan Africa economist
at  Renaissance Capital , said in an e-mail before today’s
decision. “Moreover, a strong cedi in the second half of 2011
implies positive for inflation.”  Oil Production  Ghana is the world’s second-largest cocoa producer and
became Africa’s newest oil exporter after production from its
offshore Jubilee field began in December. The economy expanded
23 percent in the first quarter from 9.5 percent in the previous
three months, the statistics office said on June 22.  “The sources of uncertainty that existed at the last MPC
meeting have substantially abated,” the governor said.
“Inflation expectations of businesses and the financial sector
are well-anchored.”  Ghana exported 8.6 million barrels of oil, equivalent to
$954.6 million, in the first five months of the year, Amissah-
Arthur said. That helped to boost export earnings by 63 percent
to $5.2 billion from a year ago, he said. Gold exports amounted
to $2 billion, while cocoa earnings were $1.4 billion in the
five-month period.  The  Bank of Ghana  lowered its benchmark interest rate four
times between November 2009 and July last year as the inflation
rate fell from a five-year high of 20.7 percent in June 2009.
The rate was held unchanged for three consecutive meetings
before it was reduced to 13 percent from 13.5 percent on May 13.  While credit demand has recovered, expanding 8.8 percent in
May compared with a 3.4 percent contraction a year ago, the
“sluggish response of banks is of concern,” the governor said.
The central bank will set up a committee to review how
commercial banks determine rates, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  