-- 
Ghana May Hold Key Rate at 13% as Growth Adds to Inflation Pressure

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-07-06T06:28:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/ghana-may-hold-key-rate-at-13-percemt-as-growth-adds-to-inflation-pressure.html
Ghana’s  central bank may leave its
benchmark interest rate unchanged today as faster growth in the
West African nation raises concern that the inflation rate will
reverse recent declines.  The Accra-based Bank of  Ghana  will keep the lending rate at
13 percent, according to six of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Two people expected a second consecutive reduction of
50 basis points. The decision will be announced at 3 p.m. in
Accra, the capital.  “Economic activity is generally very buoyant and the
Monetary Policy Committee will want to avoid over-stimulation
with its associated inflation risks,” Lisa Lewin, London-based
head of sub-Saharan Africa analysis at Business Monitor
International, said in an e-mailed note yesterday.  Ghana’s economy grew 23 percent in the first quarter of
2011 following the start of oil production at the Jubilee field,
the country’s statistics agency said June 22. Inflation has
slowed for three straight months, with the rate easing to 8.9
percent in May.  The  Bank of Ghana  cut the policy rate four times between
November 2009 and July 2010. It was kept on hold for three
consecutive meetings before being reduced to 13 percent from
13.5 percent on May 13.  A supplementary budget to be announced by the Ghanaian
government by August may see more spending rather than lower
deficits,  Razia Khan , London-based head of Africa research at
Standard Chartered Plc, said by e-mail.  “A cautious approach to monetary policy formulation is
required,” she said, forecasting the rate to be maintained.  Ghana wants to narrow its fiscal gap to between 5 percent
and 5.5 percent of gross domestic product this year from 6.8
percent in 2010, Deputy Finance Minister Fifi Kwetey said June
28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 