-- 
GoAir May Buy Regional Aircraft to Connect Smaller India Cities

-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 
2011-07-06T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/goair-may-buy-regional-aircraft-to-connect-smaller-india-cities.html
Go Airlines (India) Ltd ., the
discount carrier that ordered 72 Airbus SAS A320neo jets last
month, is considering adding smaller planes to tap rising travel
demand in the South Asian nation.  “The Indian market has significant potential for regional
aircraft,” Giorgio De Roni, who took over as chief executive
officer last month, said in a July 5 interview in Mumbai. GoAir
has had “very preliminary” talks with planemakers Avions de
Transport Regional,  Bombardier Inc (BBD/B)  and  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , he said.  GoAir may join rival  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  in ordering smaller
planes that seat less than 100 people as economic growth spreads
beyond India’s major cities. The Mumbai-based carrier plans to
double its fleet of larger A320s to 20 in the next two years
before it starts receiving aircraft from its latest order.  “There is a strong case for airlines to create a regional
network,” said  P.C.K. Ravindran , chairman of Kochi, India-based
Institute of Applied Aviation Management, and an adviser on
aviation projects. “Gradually, if not immediately, air traffic
will grow in states as industrialization catches up.”  Deliveries of GoAir’s 72 A320neos will begin in 2016, De
Roni said. The airline currently flies to smaller Indian cities
including Bagdogra, Guwahati, Jaipur and Nagpur using its A320s.
The carrier had sales of $300 million in the last financial year
and posted a profit, he said without elaboration.  SpiceJet,  India ’s only listed discount carrier, will add 15
Bombardier Q400 turboprops by July next year. The carrier is
expanding services to smaller cities and towns as it aims to
more than double passenger numbers in three years. It ordered
the planes last year and took options for another 15.  IndiGo, the nation’s biggest low-fare airline, last month
placed an order for 180 Airbus planes at the  Paris Air Show .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in Mumbai at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 