-- 
Gold Gains for Second Day as Europe Debt Concerns Boost Demand for Haven

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-07-06T17:57:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/gold-gains-for-second-day-as-europe-debt-concerns-boost-demand-for-haven.html
Gold rose for a second straight day
as mounting government debt in  Europe  boosted demand for the
precious metal as a haven.  The euro declined against the dollar after Moody’s
Investors Service cut Portugal’s credit rating to junk, renewing
concerns another European nation will need a bailout. Gold fell
in the previous two weeks as Greece avoided a default.  “You’re getting a flight-to-quality fear coming in for
gold,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior market strategist at
broker Lind-Waldock in  Chicago . “With the anxieties in Portugal
and the ongoing debt-ceiling problems in the U.S., there are too
many bullish cases for gold.”  Gold futures for August delivery rose $16.50, or 1.1
percent, to settle at $1,529.20 an ounce at 1:43 p.m. on the
Comex in  New York . The metal advanced 2 percent yesterday.  Prices have climbed 28 percent in the past 12 months as
escalating sovereign-debt woes and record-low U.S. borrowing
costs increased the appeal of the metal as an alternative to
currencies. The price denominated in euros reached an all-time
high on May 25.  Dennis Gartman , an economist and the editor of the Suffolk,
Virginia-based Gartman Letter, recommended holding gold in
foreign currencies to hedge against the relative strength of the
dollar.  “We remain bullish of gold in non-U.S. dollar terms,”
Gartman said in his daily note. “In the course of the past two
days, what had been a position under attack has become a
position of authority once again.”  Silver futures for September delivery rose 50.6 cents, or
1.4 percent, to $35.916 an ounce on the Comex.  Platinum futures for October delivery fell $8.70, or 0.5
percent, to $1,733.40 an ounce on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  Palladium futures for September delivery slipped $2.45, or
0.3 percent, to $773.20 an ounce on the Nymex.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 