-- 
Gold May Drop as Strengthening Dollar, Chinese Rate Increase Erode Demand

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-07-06T12:16:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/gold-may-advance-as-europe-woes-continue-on-portugal-downgrade.html
Gold may decline in  New York  as a
stronger dollar and higher interest rates in China curb demand
for an alternative investment.  China said it will raise interest rates from tomorrow for
the third time this year after inflation accelerated to the
fastest pace since July 2008. The dollar gained against the euro
after Moody’s Investors Service cut  Portugal ’s credit rating to
junk status, stoking speculation the nation will need a second
bailout. Gold typically moves counter to the greenback.  There is “bearish pressure from potentially higher
interest rates,” which increase the opportunity cost of holding
bullion, said Filip Petersson, an analyst at SEB AB in
 Stockholm . “It all comes down to the real interest rate, will
it rise or fall? Dollar strength is normally bearish for  gold
prices .”  Gold for August delivery fell $1, or 0.1 percent, to
$1,511.70 an ounce by 8:01 a.m. on the Comex in New York.
Immediate-delivery gold was 0.3 percent lower at $1,511.15 in
London.  Gold is up 6.4 percent in 2011 after climbing the past 10
years, the longest run of gains in at least nine decades in
London.  Europe ’s debt crisis helped bullion futures reach a
record $1,577.40 on May 2.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday slashed Portugal’s
rating four levels to Ba2 with a negative outlook. The decision
came two months after Portugal got a 78 billion euro aid package
($112 billion). The cut may further strain relations between the
rating companies and European Union policy makers, who are
trying to ensure their plan for investor involvement in a new
Greek bailout doesn’t trigger a default.  Budget Reduction  The Obama administration and congressional leaders are
working to complete a deal on a long-term budget reduction
package by July 22. President  Barack Obama  said he opposes a
deficit-cutting measure that would only allow for a short-term
increase in the U.S. debt limit as he called a meeting tomorrow
with lawmakers to work toward fixes in the government’s
finances.  The president’s comments yesterday were the second time in
less than a week that he has come to the podium to publicly push
lawmakers to secure a deal that addresses basic solutions to
deficit spending while averting a first-ever U.S. default on its
obligations.  “Portugal’s four-notch ratings downgrade is a reminder
that Europe’s debt problems are far from solved,”  Edel Tully , a
London-based analyst at UBS AG, said in a report. “The focus is
increasingly on the U.S. debt ceiling debate. An increasing
focus on U.S. fiscal worries should also lead to safe-haven and
diversification bids.”  Silver for September delivery fell 0.6 percent to $35.19 an
ounce in New York. Palladium for September delivery slipped 0.8
percent to $769.65 an ounce. Platinum for October delivery was
down 0.4 percent at $1,735.80 an ounce.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  