-- 
Goldman Sachs Took Biggest Loan From Undisclosed 2008 Fed Crisis Program

-- B y   B o b   I v r y   a n d   B r a d l e y   K e o u n
-- 
2011-07-06T21:50:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/goldman-took-biggest-loan-in-fed-program.html
Goldman Sachs & Co., a unit of the
most profitable bank in Wall Street history, took $15 billion
from the U.S. Federal Reserve on Dec. 9, 2008, the biggest
single loan from a lending program whose details have been
secret until today.  The program, which peaked at $80 billion in loans
outstanding, was known as the Fed’s single-tranche open-market
operations, or  ST OMO . It made 28-day loans to units of 19 banks
between March 7, 2008, and Dec. 30, 2008. Bloomberg reported on
ST OMO in May, after the Fed released incomplete records on the
program. In response to a subsequent Freedom of Information Act
request for details, the central bank disclosed borrower names,
amounts borrowed and interest rates.  ST OMO is the last known Fed crisis lending program to have
its details made public. The central bank resisted previous FOIA
requests on emergency lending for more than two years,
disclosing details in March of its oldest loan facility, the
discount window, only after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled it had
to. When Congress  mandated  the December 2010 release of data on
special initiatives the Fed created in its unprecedented $3.5
trillion response to the 2007-2009 collapse in credit markets,
ST OMO -- an expansion of a longstanding program -- wasn’t
included.  “The Fed has come a long way over a long period of time as
far as transparency,” said Raymond W. Stone, managing director
and economist with Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in
Princeton,  New Jersey . “They thought counterparties might be
harmed, but now so much time has passed that the information is
not as sensitive anymore.”  Primary Dealers  The 19 borrowers from the program are known as primary
dealers, which are designated to trade  government securities 
directly with  Federal Reserve Bank of New York . They bid at
auctions for ST OMO’s cash. While the rates they paid generally
tracked the federal funds rate, the rate for some dipped as low
as 0.01 percent in December 2008.  The New York  Fed  conducted 44 ST OMO auctions, according to
its website. Banks bid the interest rate they were willing to
pay for the loans and pledged mortgage-backed securities
guaranteed by government-sponsored enterprises such as  Fannie
Mae  or  Freddie Mac  as collateral for the Fed’s cash. The
transactions were known as  repurchase agreements , or repos.  Longstanding Program  ST OMO was an expansion of longstanding open-market
operations, which offered cash for up to two weeks and were used
as a tool of monetary policy. In March 2008, the Fed adapted the
program to alleviate pressures in short-term credit markets,
according to a news release the central bank issued at the time.  The program shouldn’t be grouped with the Fed’s other
crisis lending initiatives because it was “not outside of the
Fed’s standard authorities,” David E. Altig, senior vice
president and director of research at the  Federal Reserve Bank
of Atlanta , said in his  blog  in May.  The  New York  Fed posted aggregate data about the program on
its website after each auction, said  Jeffrey Smith , a New York
Fed spokesman. By increasing the availability of short-term
financing when private lenders were under pressure, “this
program helped alleviate strains in financial markets and
support the flow of credit to U.S. households and businesses,”
he said. All of the ST OMO loans were repaid.  Some primary dealers used the program to help customers,
such as  hedge funds , finance their holdings of mortgage-backed
securities, Stone said.  MBS Market  “The Fed didn’t want to just finance the primary dealers,
they wanted the mortgage-backed  securities market  to become more
fluid,” Stone said.  Credit Suisse Securities USA LLC, a unit of  Switzerland ’s
second-biggest bank, had $45 billion in loans outstanding on
Aug. 27, 2008 -- the largest peak borrowing amount, the data
show.  “Credit Suisse was a net creditor throughout the crisis and
made between $30 and $70 billion of liquidity available to
central banks each day,” said Victoria Harmon, a spokeswoman for
the bank in New York.  Six of the program’s top seven borrowers were units of
foreign banks, the data show.  Goldman Sachs’s peak outstanding loans were the second-
highest at $34.5 billion on Dec. 31, 2008, when interest rates
were at their lowest, according to the data.  Michael DuVally , a
spokesman for New York-based  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
parent company of the primary dealer, declined to comment.  Lehman Brothers  Lehman Brothers Inc . had two loans totaling $2 billion
outstanding when its parent investment bank filed the biggest
bankruptcy in U.S. history on Sept. 15, 2008, the data show.
Those loans were repaid on Sept. 18, 2008, under a separate
agreement, the Fed’s release said. Lehman’s peak borrowings from
ST OMO reached $18 billion on June 25, 2008, according to the
data.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  RBS Securities Inc., a unit of Britain’s second-biggest
bank by market capitalization, had $31.5 billion in loans
outstanding on Oct. 8, 2008, and UBS Securities LLC, part of
Switzerland’s biggest bank, borrowed as much as $20.5 billion on
Nov. 26, 2008, the Fed said.  Among the smallest loans was one to Bear Stearns & Co., the
primary-dealer unit of Bear Stearns Cos. The primary dealer took
one loan from ST OMO for $500 million, on March 12, 2008,
according to the release.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  bought the New
York-based investment bank four days later. The loan was repaid
on April 9, 2008, the data show.  The information on ST OMO is available on the central
bank’s Web site:
 http://www.federalreserve.gov/monetarypolicy/bst_tranche.htm   To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Ivry in New York at   bivry@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ; 