-- 
Golf, Art Are Weapons in Portugal Debt Battle: A. Craig Copetas

-- B y   A .   C r a i g   C o p e t a s
-- 
2011-07-06T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/golf-art-are-luxury-weapons-in-portugal-s-credit-battle-a-craig-copetas.html
On an oceanfront terrace in the
Portuguese sardine-fishing hamlet Meia Praia, Sergio Vidal
Balaguer is betting $1 billion that a “new luxury” will emerge
from global economic calamity.  The 40-year-old Spaniard is director general of Grupo
Miragolf SA in  Madrid , and he has great expectations.  “Ferdinand Magellan sailed past here in 1522 to chart a
new course into the future,” Balaguer says after a round of
golf with a coterie of like-minded businessmen and politicians
gathered at the  Onyria Palmares  Beach & Golf Resort to explore
the uncharted frontiers of wealth and indulgence.  “What we’re doing is building a new luxury model for the
post-crisis world,” Balaguer says of the perilous voyage ahead.
“There are no maps.”  Portugal’s long-time Secretary of State for Tourism
Bernardo Trindade, speaking over lunch, reckons the only choice
left is to set sail on intuition. “We have to continue making
bets,” says Trindade, one of the men responsible for laying the
groundwork to repay  Portugal ’s 160 billion euro ($229.02
billion) debt.  The Portuguese government’s navigational skills are being
put to the ultimate test on a global stage. Moody’s Investors
Service on July 5 slashed Portugal’s credit rating to below
investor grade Ba2 junk with a negative outlook, from Baa1. At
the same time, Spain is scrambling to prevent Moody’s from
downgrading its long-term government-bond rating another notch
after it was lowered to Aa2 in March.  Millionaire Anguish  Proponents of the New Luxury operate on instinct and a 2011
survey by  Fidelity Investments  in  Boston  that shows there’s a 2-
in-5 chance millionaires don’t feel wealthy unless they have a
total net worth of $7.5 million to ease the pain of the economic
slump. Coming generations of millionaires in search of luxury,
Balaguer says, will want a much bigger bang for their buck and
he intends to give it to them.  Jose Carlos Pinto Coelho, the 64-year-old chairman of the
Portuguese property-development company Onyria SGPS SA and an
economic adviser to Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho , is a
transitional figure in the New Luxury. As he tells it,
millionaires with less money who are wandering through financial
landscapes pocked with trillions of dollars of debt require
businessmen and governments to re-evaluate the relationship
between style and commerce.  So with his twin 29-year-old sons, Joao and Antonio, Coelho
this year committed almost 180 million euros to developing New
Luxury projects in Meia Praia and along the Turkish Riviera for
alarmed millionaires.  Global Tribe  But will they come?  “Destinations or products, everything now is word-of-
mouth,” says Coelho, whose company employs 500 people around
the world. “No advertising, no backroom operation managed by a
brand-name chain. There’s no future in following the Gucci and
Ritz-Carlton vision of luxury.”  Self-indulgence is still a virtue, so long as the price is
right, the location exotic and there’s a solid Internet
connection. Balaguer says the New Luxury is tribal in nature,
global in scope and hinges on bringing Balthus to the clubhouse.  Indeed, Miragolf’s resort and stately home projects in
 Spain  and along the Caribbean coast of  Panama  over the next 10
years will feature museums as their design centerpiece to
attract a new generation that wants more than super spas, all-
natural mojitos and miles of championship golf.  Art of Golf  “Golf is art, so I want artists, the world’s greatest
artists, to be part of the next generation of my  luxury
resorts ,” Balaguer says of the projects designed to delight
next-generation Latin American and European millionaires. “My
market wants contemporary-art museums on site, so we’ll go
further and award artist grants and establish a foundation for
the arts.”  This strategy is no marketing frivolity. Balaguer’s already
negotiating with the  Ivam Museum  in Valencia to participate in
Altea, the boutique hotel and luxury villa compound that breaks
ground later this year near Alicante with an eco-friendly course
designed by Robert Trent Jones Jr.  Balaguer clicks a pen and attempts to navigate the
treacherous economics of the New Luxury on a paper napkin.  “Here’s where it starts for me,” Balaguer says. “The
pre-crisis minimum price point for buying into a luxury property
was 14,000 euros a square meter. I’m making it 8,000 euros a
square meter and offering more.”  Targeting Clients  Just don’t skimp on the golf. New Luxury developers say
their target customers have an average age of 48 and all of them
are interested in playing the game.  “They are men who travel in groups,” says Antonia
Correia, economics professor at the Technical University of
Lisbon. “That means that the golf courses must invest in
diversification of markets to appeal to young people. If they do
not, there will be no future demand.”  Yet Rolf Kettmann is nervous and wondering if redefining
lavish is little more than an attempt to douse a financial
firestorm with a bottle of discounted Champagne. Kettmann is the
59-year-old general manager of the Yellow Lagos Meia Praia
Hotel, an elegant beachfront resort opened by Eurimobe SA in
April as an experiment in New Luxury.  “Our rooms are 150 to 250 euros a night, but we still
struggle,” Kettmann says. “Occupancy is 65 percent, which is
considered reasonable, which unfortunately isn’t reasonable.”  Lavish Future  Kettmann describes his role as creating a microclimate for
the future. “The New Luxury is about repositioning products and
services for the next generation of buyers,” says Kettmann.
“The hard part is attracting these New Luxury guests, who do
exist and want to seek out new places on their own. But it’s my
job to worry and you can’t dump market prices forever to attract
market share.”  Back on the golf course, Coelho is driving his cart toward
a tough nine-iron shot to save par. The warning beneath the
wheel reads, “Rollover May Cause Serious Injury or Death.” He
isn’t concerned.  “I’m building 91 luxury homes and 230 luxury hotel
rooms,” Coelho says of the development taken from Frank Lloyd Wright’s architectural playbook. “The houses cost between 1.2
million euros and 4 million euros and will deliver a 36 percent
gain in value over the next 10 years.”  Coelho’s shot comes up short, though accounting firm KPMG
LLP says the sport is a growth winner, annually generating close
to 20 billion euros of direct revenue and supporting 400,000
European jobs that pay almost 9.4 billion euros in wages. In the
U.S., research institute SRI International’s Golf Economy Report
says the game pumps some $76 billion into the economy.  “Portugal, Spain,  Greece , Ireland, America, the entire
world is in economic trouble and none of us can get out of it by
competing with  China  on manufacturing,” Coelho says. “So we
must find our own way out by offering new forms of luxury in
regions where costs are low. At least, that’s the plan.”  Information:  http://www.onyriaresorts.com  or
 http://www.miragolf.com  and  http://www.rtj2.com   To contact the writer on the story:
A. Craig Copetas at  ccopetas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 