-- 
Greek Default Not Worst Outcome for Banks as Bondholders Discuss Options

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-07-06T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/greek-default-not-worst-outcome-for-banks-as-bondholders-discuss-options.html
Greek creditors may be willing to
risk a planned and managed default to help resolve the nation’s
debt crisis, said the head of the world’s biggest group of
international financial companies.  “It may well be that some rating agencies reach judgments
that involve a selective default,”  Charles Dallara , the
managing director of the International Institute of Finance,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “I don’t
think that a temporary period of selective default as it has
been narrowly framed for sovereigns in the past is necessarily
the worst thing that could happen here.”  His comments, which contrast with the opposition to default
by the  European Central Bank , European Union and Greece itself,
came as  Germany  revived a proposal for a bond swap to lengthen
Greek debt maturities. The Germans dropped that suggestion two
weeks ago after it was rejected by the ECB.  Dallara met with about 20 banks and insurers in Paris
yesterday to examine proposals to roll over maturing bonds into
new Greek securities. The discussions included a plan floated
last week by French banks to roll over 70 percent of bonds
maturing by mid-2014 into new 30-year Greek securities backed by
AAA-rated collateral, as well as other proposals, Dallara said.  Bonds in high-debt European nations tumbled yesterday after
 Portugal  was downgraded to junk status, adding to concern
 Europe ’s debt woes will continue to ripple beyond Greece. The
extra yield investors demand to hold Portugal’s 10-year bonds
over German bunds surged 148 basis points to a euro-era record
949. The yield on  Italy ’s 10-year bond reached the highest in
almost three years, while Ireland’s two-year yield topped 15
percent for the first time.  ‘Fingers Crossed’  The turmoil hasn’t deterred German leaders from insisting
that private creditors need to play a substantial role in
further rescues.  “The market has thought some debt forebearance was
inevitable from day one, and we are keeping our fingers crossed
that any restructuring, whether it is called that or not, will
not lead to contagion and a global market meltdown,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ in  New York . “This is looking increasingly like a true
default.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters
in Berlin yesterday he sees “many arguments in favor of
alternatives” to the French banks’ proposal, after it became
clear that ratings companies viewed the plan as likely to
trigger default.  Avoiding Default  European Union officials and the ECB have insisted that
private-sector participation be designed to avoid any kind of
default status for Greece, however short-term.  “We stick to our objective and continue working with the
private sector and partners in the Eurogroup on a private sector
involvement scheme that contribute significantly to the
successor program for Greece while avoiding that selective
default,” EU economic spokesman Amadeu Altafaj said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said last month that
pushing private-sector involvement would be an “enormous
mistake” for the euro region. While the ECB has said it could
accept a plan under which creditors voluntarily agree to buy
Greek bonds to replace maturing debt, Trichet said the ECB has
no intention of rolling over its own Greek holdings.  The ECB is lending unlimited amounts of cash to support
banking systems and has relaxed collateral requirements. In May
2010, it took the unprecedented decision to start buying the
bonds of distressed nations in an effort to calm markets as
Greece’s fiscal woes began to infect other euro-area members.  Not ‘Credible Threat’  Investors are betting that Trichet will maintain efforts to
support Greek banks, no matter the debt rating, said  David Owen ,
managing director at Jefferies International in  London .  “The ECB can kick and scream but it has to keep pumping in
liquidity or the Greek banking sector goes down and we have
contagion,” Owen said. “Trichet won’t want to be remembered as
contributing to an absolute disaster so it’s not a credible
threat and that’s the way the market views it.”  Bankers participating in the Greece talks said that any
solution will have to win the backing of European authorities
before it can proceed.  “There is a need to try finding a solution that avoids a
default, because we have been asked by the authorities for a
plan that does not lead to a default,” said  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA
Chairman Michel Pebereau in an interview on BFM radio yesterday.
“Different solutions have been put on the table.”  ‘Noise’ of Moment  Pebereau said the Greek case is “different” from that of
Portugal and Ireland, when asked about the risk of contagion.
The IIF’s Dallara also said financial markets will, over time,
recognize that Greece faces a different set of problems than
Ireland or Portugal, which also needed aid from the European
Union and  International Monetary Fund .  “Markets will be able over time to detach a little bit
from the noise of the moment,” he said.  Dallara, 62, said a voluntary program to involve banks,
insurers and other bondholders needs to be accompanied by
efforts, such as a bond buyback program, to retire  Greece ’s
debt, which amounts to about 150 percent of gross domestic
product. He said investors and authorities should step back and
consider a broader set of options than the bondholder proposals
discussed recently.  “What’s at stake really continues to be, I think, the
global economic recovery,” Dallara said. “I am increasingly
confident that the efforts underway recognize the severity of
the stakes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Olivia Sterns in London at 
 osterns1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 