-- 
Greek Rollover Probably Won’t Trigger CDS, ISDA’s Geen Says

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-07-06T15:11:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/greek-bond-rollover-probably-won-t-trigger-credit-swaps-isda-s-geen-says.html
A rollover or exchange of Greek bonds
probably won’t trigger credit-default swap insurance contracts
because the restructuring would be voluntary, according to David Geen at the International Swaps & Derivatives Association.  Germany  is reviving proposals for a swap involving a
voluntary exchange of debt against bonds with a longer maturity,
a government official said today. Greek banks are willing to
roll over their  government bonds  as part of a European Union
rescue, Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said.  “From a CDS point of view, the proposals are all either
an exchange or a rollover,” Geen, ISDA’s general counsel in
London, said today. “If it’s voluntary, any rollover or
exchange doesn’t trigger CDS.”  European Central Bank chiefs have committed to ensure any
Greek debt restructuring won’t be deemed a credit event enabling
buyers of protection to seek compensation from swaps sellers.
The contracts surged 167 basis points to 2,091 today, and now
signal a more than 82 percent probability of default within five
years, according to data provider CMA.  The ECB’s total exposure to  Greece  may be 130 billion euros
($184 billion) to 140 billion euros, Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said last month. The ECB provided 90 billion euros
of liquidity to Greek banks, he said.  Credit Event  Credit-default swaps on Greece cover a net notional $4.8
billion, according to the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.,
which runs a central registry that captures most trades. That’s
just 1 percent of the government’s $500 billion of bonds and
loans outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors who hold bonds that are covered by swaps
protection and don’t take part in a voluntary restructuring are
still covered “if there is a default in the future,” Geen said
in a later interview with Erik Schatzker on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track.”  Swaps on western European governments can pay out on a
credit event triggered by failure to pay, restructuring or a
moratorium on payments.  A restructuring event can be caused by a reduction in
principal or interest, postponement or deferral of payments or a
change in the ranking or currency of obligations, according to
ISDA rules. Any of these changes must result from deterioration
in creditworthiness, apply to multiple investors and be binding
on all holders.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a swap protecting
$10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  