-- 
WaMu, BNP Paribas, JPMorgan, Deutsche Bank in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-07-06T10:24:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/greek-bailout-bnp-paribas-dsk-deutsche-bank-in-court-news.html
Ex- Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ)  Chief
Executive Officer Kerry Killinger and two other former bank
officials ended talks with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
on settling a lawsuit, a lawyer said.  Killinger, former Chief Operating Officer Stephen Rotella
and David Schneider, the bank’s former home-loans president,
asked a judge to dismiss the FDIC’s suit after the negotiations
failed, according to Barry Ostrager, a lawyer for Rotella and
Schneider.  “There are presently no settlement discussions and the
defendants stand on their motions to dismiss,” Ostrager said
yesterday in an e-mail, referring to all three defendants.  In 2008, regulators seized Seattle-based Washington Mutual
Bank, once the nation’s biggest savings and loan, and sold it to
New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion.  The FDIC sued the Washington Mutual Inc. officials in
March, claiming they took extreme risks with the bank unit’s
home-loans portfolio, causing billions of dollars in losses. The
FDIC accused the executives of disregarding the bank’s long-term
safety and fixating on rewarding themselves. The men received
more than $95 million in compensation from January 2005 to
September 2008, the FDIC said.  The settlement negotiations were revealed in a June 16
court filing, when both sides said they were “diligently
working” to resolve remaining disputes. Lawyers said in some
instances the settlement terms required the approval of third
parties.  “The FDIC is essentially suing my clients for making
business decisions that were fully disclosed, monitored,
approved and transparent to the FDIC,” Ostrager said in the e-
mail. “There is no legal basis for seeking to retroactively
impose financial liability upon bank executives for making
business decisions of a type that were common and
unobjectionable at the time.”  Barry Kaplan, a lawyer representing Killinger, confirmed
that the settlement negotiations have “not succeeded at this
point,” and declined to comment further.  David Barr, an FDIC spokesman, said the agency declined to
comment.  The case is FDIC v. Killinger, 11-00459, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  Trials/Appeals  Greek Bailout Was ‘Unavoidable,’ Schaeuble Tells Top Court  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told a German
court that euro-area governments had no other option than to
bail out Greece and set up a wider euro-rescue fund to stem
contagion.  Many analysts fear that an uncontrolled Greek default would
be more dramatic than the 2008 financial crisis, Schaeuble said
at a hearing at the Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe,
Germany, yesterday. The court is hearing three challenges to
German participation in the multi-billion-euro rescue packages.  While European leaders work on additional steps to avoid a
Greek default, the court is reviewing two packages from May of
last year. The cases target Germany’s share of the 110 billion
euros ($159 billion) in loans for Greece from euro-region
governments and the  International Monetary Fund  as well a
separate 750 billion-euro rescue fund that sought to halt the
spread of Greece’s debt crisis.  “A stable currency is the pillar of economic welfare in
 Europe ,” Schaeuble said, defending the government position at
the court. “It’s also important for global economic stability,
where the euro is already a sought-after reserve currency.”  Germany, as Europe’s largest economy, is the biggest
contributor to the euro-region bailouts.  The cases were filed by academics and a lawmaker who have
unsuccessfully turned to the court before to try to block
Germany’s participation in parts of European Union integration.  The euro-region action violated fundamental EU treaty rules
including the prohibition to pay other member states’ debts as
well as a ban on central banks financing governments, law
professor Dieter Murswiek said in his opening address to the
court. He represents lawmaker Peter Gauweiler, a member of
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc, who is one
of the plaintiffs in the case.  The court is expected to take several months before it will
issue a ruling.  The cases are BVerfG, 2 BvR 987/10, 2 BvR 1099/10 and 2 BvR
1485/10.  For more, click here.  BNP Paribas (BNP)  Sued by Client Claiming Unlawful Transactions  A client of BNP Paribas Wealth Management claimed in a
Singapore court yesterday that the unit of Europe’s largest bank
by assets made unauthorized trades that led to a S$1.1 million
($898,000) shortfall in his account.  Nitine Jantilal, a BNP client since 2002, is asking the
bank to account for the loss in his account, which fell to S$4.2
million in July 2009, said his lawyer, T. Kulasingam Sureshan.
Jantilal didn’t know about some transactions carried out by the
bank or authorize certain withdrawals, Sureshan said.  “The primary complaint is about the unlawful withdrawals
from the accounts,” Sureshan told Singapore High Court Justice
Choo Han Teck at the start of an eight-day trial.  BNP Paribas denies wrongdoing and was authorized to carry
out the trades in question, K. Muralidharan Pillai, a lawyer for
the bank, said in court.  The case is Nitine Jantilal v. BNP Paribas Wealth
Management S1048/2009 in the Singapore High Court.  Airline Groups Attack EU’s Carbon Curbs at Bloc’s Top Court  International airlines said European Union plans to make
carriers comply with emission curbs constitute an illegal levy
that will undermine efforts to fight climate change.  The International Air Transport Association told a hearing
at the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg that carriers oppose on
several grounds “unilateral action” that extends the EU carbon
market to all flights that depart from or arrive at an airport
in the region.  The EU plan “is not the right way to reduce international
airline emissions, nor is it lawful,” said Conor Quigley, a
lawyer for the International Air Transport Association and the
National Airlines Council of Canada. Their members account for
about 93 percent of international flights.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American
Airlines and the Air Transport Association of America are
leading the court challenge against the EU’s first attempt to
extend the world’s largest carbon cap-and-trade program beyond
its borders. The EU’s move, which follows a doubling of airline
discharges in Europe over two decades, is a “practical
example” of necessary action to prevent global warming, EU
Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said last month.  The carriers claim the plan violates international law, the
 Kyoto Protocol , an EU-U.S. Open Skies Agreement and the
Convention on International Civil Aviation, the so-called
Chicago Convention.  “The only way of ensuring a coherent framework for
reducing emissions from aircraft is through multilateral
agreement, rather than through unilateral and piecemeal
regulation, which can only lead to chaos at the international
level,” Derrick Wyatt, a lawyer for the ATA and its member
airlines, told a 13-judge panel of the court yesterday.  Advocate General Juliane Kokott said she will deliver a
non-binding opinion on the case on Oct. 6.  The case is  C-366/10 , The Air Transport Association of
America v. The Secretary of State for Energy and Climate Change.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Strauss-Kahn Accused of Attempted Rape in Writer Complaint  A French novelist filed an attempted rape complaint against
Dominique Strauss-Kahn, saying the former International Monetary
Fund chief assaulted her in 2003 when she tried to interview
him.  The criminal complaint was mailed to the Paris prosecutor
yesterday, said David Koubbi, a lawyer for Tristane Banon, the
writer.  “We are waiting from news from the prosecutor,” Koubbi
said in an interview yesterday.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, stepped down from the IMF after being
charged with sexually assaulting a maid at a  New York  hotel in
May. He was released from home confinement and had his bail
returned as local prosecutors uncovered evidence the 32-year-old
woman had lied about key aspects of her life.  Banon’s allegations are “imaginary” and her “complaint
arises quite opportunistically,” given that “the deceitful
nature of the accusations he faces in the U.S. is no longer in
any doubt,” according to an e-mailed statement from Strauss-
Kahn’s French lawyers, Frederique Baulieu and Henri Leclerc.
They are preparing a slander complaint against Banon at Strauss-
Kahn’s request, they said.  For more, click here.  InnerWorkings Sues Yahoo in Illinois Court Over Defamation  InnerWorkings Inc. (INWK)  sued Yahoo! Inc. claiming the search-
engine provider erroneously undervalued its earnings, depressing
the stock price.  Yahoo’s finance website has said since March that
InnerWorkings’ earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, or Ebitda, for the past 12 months is $20.9
million, or about $5 million less than the actual amount,
InnerWorkings said in the lawsuit filed yesterday in Illinois
state court in Chicago.  The error results in an unfavorable “enterprise value to
Ebitda ratio,” according to the complaint. Yahoo, based in
Sunnyvale, California, arrives at that figure by dividing the
market value by the Ebitda, while factoring in debt, minority
interests and other variables, InnerWorkings said.  “The Yahoo! finance posting of this Ebitda information on
InnerWorkings Inc. is a false and defamatory statement” that
resulted in the shares being undervalued, according to the
complaint.  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, didn’t return a
call seeking comment.  The case is InnerWorkings v. Yahoo, 2011L006923, Illinois
County Department, Circuit of Cook County (Chicago).  Standard Chartered Sued in Singapore Over Madoff ‘Feeder Fund’  Standard Chartered Bank Plc was sued by two groups of
Dubai-based investors in Singapore claiming they lost $10
million after being misled into investing in funds that
channeled money to Ponzi scheme operator Bernard L. Madoff.  American Express Bank Ltd., which has since been acquired
by Standard Chartered, had misrepresented Fairfield Sentry Ltd.
as an “extremely stable” investment, the investors said in two
lawsuits filed with the Singapore High Court. The bank also
claimed it performed “extensive due diligence” on Fairfield, a
so-called feeder fund in Madoff’s Ponzi scheme, according to
court papers submitted by the investors.  The two groups of former clients were experienced investors
who knew of the risks involved, Standard Chartered said in
filings on June 27. The London-based bank denied misleading the
investors and wasn’t responsible for their investment decisions,
it said in the filing.  Ally Lim, a Singapore-based spokeswoman at Standard
Chartered, declined to comment, as did Niru Pillai, the lawyer
representing both groups of investors.  The first group of seven investors is claiming $5.34
million from the bank while the second group of 17 is seeking
$4.75 million, according to their lawsuits.  The cases are Tradewaves Ltd. v Standard Chartered Bank
S337/2011 and Jitendra Gopaldas Bhatia v Standard Chartered Bank
S338/2011 in the Singapore High Court.  For the latest new suits news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pre-trial  JPMorgan, Customers at Impasse in Overdraft Fee Accord Talks  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and consumers who sued the bank over
claims of excessive overdraft fees have reached an impasse in
settlement talks, a mediator said.  Two mediation sessions held between the company and the
plaintiffs’ committee on March 17 and June 28 failed, the
mediator, Thomas E. Scott, said July 1 in a report filed in
federal court in Miami.  “Following the second effort, the undersigned has decided
to declare an impasse at this time,” according to the document
signed by Scott.  Consumers sued accusing JPMorgan and more than a dozen
other banks of illegally charging excessive fees for overdrafts.
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest U.S. lender by assets, agreed
to pay $410 million in February to settle the lawsuits against
it. The bank didn’t admit any liability in the cases.  Los Angeles resident Andrea Luquetta sued JPMorgan in 2009
claiming the bank’s overdraft fees were excessive, unfair and
deceptive. The suit named JPMorgan and Washington Mutual Bank
Inc., which JPMorgan acquired in 2008. The case is now part of
multidistrict litigation in the Miami court.  Thomas Kelly, a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment on
the report. Jeremy W. Alters, a plaintiffs’ attorney, didn’t
reply to phone and e-mail messages seeking comment.  The case is In Re: Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
1:09-md-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  For copies of recent civil complaints, click here. For the
latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-Primary Global Consultant Pleads Guilty in Insider Case  Walter Shimoon, the former  Primary Global Research LLC 
consultant charged in a nationwide probe of insider trading,
pleaded guilty to conspiracy and  securities fraud .  Shimoon faces as many as 30 years in prison at his
sentencing, scheduled for July 8, 2013 before U.S. District
Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan federal court. Shimoon’s court
date was delayed until then because he is cooperating with
prosecutors.  Shimoon told Rakoff yesterday that he made a total of
$45,500 for passing inside information to the hedge fund clients
of two expert research firms. He pleaded guilty to two counts of
conspiracy and one count of securities fraud.  In a parallel lawsuit, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission alleged Shimoon spoke with people from at least 11
hedge funds over 14 months and leaked stock tips to some of
them.  Shimoon, a former  Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX)  manager,
was arrested in December with three other defendants and charged
with conspiracy and wire fraud.  “I knew that it was material, non-public information that
I possessed only because of my employment by Flextronics,”
Shimoon told Rakoff.  Also charged with Shimoon were former Primary Global
executive James Fleishman; Mark Anthony Longoria, who worked at
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) ; and Manosha Karunatilaka, a former
account manager at Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co.  Longoria and Karunatilaka have pleaded guilty. Fleishman is
scheduled to be tried next month on two counts of conspiracy.  Winifred Jiau, a former Primary Global consultant, was
convicted of securities fraud and conspiracy June 20 in
Manhattan federal court.  The case is U.S. v. Shimoon, 10-mj-2823, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Argentine-Bond Holders Can’t Seize Assets, Court Rules  Bondholders with judgments against Argentina can’t seize
$105 million of Argentine central bank assets held at the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, a federal appeals court ruled.  A three-judge panel in New York ruled yesterday that the
Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act bars NML Capital Ltd. and EM
Ltd., which hold $2.4 billion in judgments against Argentina,
from collecting funds belonging to the Banco Central de la
Republica Argentina.  The decision overturns an April 2010 ruling by U.S.
District Judge Thomas Griesa permitting the seizure. The appeals
court vacated Griesa’s order and sent the case back to his court
for further proceedings.  The judgments stemmed from Argentina’s 2001 default on $80
billion owed to foreign creditors.  The appeals court’s decision “is wrong,” NML said in a
statement. “We are deeply disturbed by the potential
consequences of such broad and unwarranted immunity, which will
enable foreign nations to abuse the U.S. Federal Reserve system
in order to advance their own unscrupulous efforts.”  NML said it is considering whether to pursue a further
appeal in the case.  “My client is pleased with the result,” said Jonathan
Blackman, a lawyer for the Republic of Argentina.  Joseph Neuhaus, an attorney for Banco Central de la
Republica Argentina, declined to comment. EM lawyer David Rivkin
didn’t return a call seeking comment.  The case is NML Capital v. Banco Central de la Republica
Argentina, 10-1487, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Loses Ruling in Kirch Suit Over 2009 Meeting  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest bank, lost an appeals
case in a lawsuit brought by media entrepreneur  Leo Kirch  over
the company’s 2009 annual shareholder meeting.  The Higher Regional Court of Frankfurt yesterday annulled
the meetings’ decision to discharge management and supervisory
board members from liability. The judges also voided decisions
to authorize capital, according to the written ruling.  Deutsche Bank can only comment once it reviews the full
judgment and will then also decide on a possible appeal, Detlev
Rahmsdorf, a spokesman for the lender, said in an interview. By
bringing such suits, Kirch is trying to divert attention from
the failure of his company, Rahmsdorf said.  Yesterday’s case is OLG Frankfurt am Main, 5 U 104/10.  Former ICBC Executive Chan Pleads Guilty in Bribery Case  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  (Asia) Ltd.’s former
head of corporate banking Derick Chan Po-fui pleaded guilty to
accepting bribes, according to Hong Kong’s Independent
Commission Against Corruption.  Chan pleaded guilty to accepting HK$1 million ($128,000)
and HK$2.3 million from Zeng Wei, a shareholder and director of
property developer United Win Holdings Ltd., the ICAC said in a
 statement  posted on its website July 4.  Chan, who will be sentenced July 20, took the money in
exchange for delaying the due dates for repayment of loans, the
ICAC said. ICBC (Asia) is a unit of  Industrial & Commercial Bank
of China (1398)  Ltd., the world’s largest lender by market value.  Hilda Chow, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for ICBC (Asia),
declined to comment yesterday. No phone number was available for
United Win.  Zeng, 48, had an arrest warrant issued against him after he
failed to appear in court for the trial July 4, according to the
ICAC statement. Zeng has also been charged with giving a HK$2
million bribe to Chan Yick-yiu, former head of real estate and
finance at ICBC (Asia), the ICAC said.  Chan Yick-yiu pleaded not guilty July 4 to six charges,
including accepting the bribe from Zeng, according to the
statement. His trial is scheduled for today.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 