-- 
Gulf of Mexico Storm May Pose Little Threat, AccuWeather Says

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-06T19:15:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/gulf-of-mexico-storm-may-pose-little-threat-accuweather-says.html
A large patch of thunderstorms and
clouds over the southeastern Gulf of Mexico and  Florida  probably
won’t be able to form into a tropical system because conditions
aren’t right for development, said Dan Kottlowski, a
meteorologist with  AccuWeather Inc.   The National Hurricane Center gives the “large but
disorganized area” a 10 percent chance of becoming a tropical
cyclone in the next two days, according to a statement released
about 2 p.m. Miami time. However, Kottlowski said high altitude
winds in the area won’t let a storm take shape.  “As far as an organized tropical system, we see little
support for that,” Kottlowski said in a telephone interview
from  State College , Pennsylvania. “It will produce some pretty
good thunderstorms and Florida is going to get some pretty good
rains out of it.”  Hurricanes are closely watched because they are a threat to
oil and natural gas interests in the Gulf of  Mexico  and to
agriculture in the South. Florida is the second-largest citrus
producer behind  Brazil , while the Gulf accounts for 31 percent
of U.S. oil output and 43 percent of refining capacity.  Meteorologists are also watching a system in the eastern
 Pacific Ocean  off the coast of Mexico that the  hurricane center 
gives a 70 percent chance of becoming a tropical system in the
next two days.  Kottlowski said he expects that system will grow into a
tropical depression and will probably become a named storm, with
winds of at least 39 miles (63 kilometers) per hour. Forecasts
say it will move out into the Pacific and won’t be a threat to
land.  Forecast models also suggest a storm may develop in the
Atlantic at the end of next week, Kottlowski said. While that
storm may reach the Caribbean and possibly the southwestern  Gulf
of Mexico , it doesn’t seem to be a threat to U.S. interests at
the moment, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 