-- 
Tiger Air Australia Heads to Leave as Safety Regulator Extends Grounding

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-07-07T09:48:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/tiger-air-australia-head-leaves-amid-grounding.html
Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR)  said the
head of its Australian operations will leave after regulators
extended a flight ban on the budget carrier by about three weeks
because of safety concerns.  Crawford Rix will leave July 31, and Tony Davis, Tiger’s
chief executive officer, will take control of Australian
operations, the Singapore-based carrier said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. Executive Director Chin Yau Seng will
become acting CEO and take over Davis’s responsibilities.  Tiger, 33 percent owned by Singapore Airlines Ltd., also
named Joseph Pillay chairman as it works to reassure investors
and regulators after the flight suspension that was imposed July
2.  Australia ’s Civil Aviation Safety Authority sought to  extend
the ban  yesterday to Aug. 1 while it continues investigations.
The carrier has suspended ticket sales and said July 4 the
grounding was costing it S$2 million ($1.6 million) a week.  “The worst is not yet over,” Rigan Wong, an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in  Singapore  who recommends investors sell the
stock, wrote in a note to clients. “Tiger’s brand reputation
has been severely damaged.”  The grounding may cost Tiger S$9 million if it lasts until
next month and damp demand for its flights, forcing it to
consider reducing or exiting Australian domestic services,
according to Citigroup.  Ticket Refunds  “Tiger Airways has been working constructively with  CASA 
for the past five days to establish a plan for the resumption of
our services,” the carrier said. “The airline remains
committed to resuming services as quickly as possible.”  Tiger fell 0.5 percent to S$1.04 at the 5 p.m. close in
Singapore trading, extending its drop this week to 13 percent.  Flights were halted after an aircraft came in to land too
low last week. The carrier was already under a safety review by
the regulator because of  previous lapses .  The airline will refund passengers who bought tickets for
July travel and won’t oppose the regulator’s application to
extend the grounding, which must be done through the Federal
Court.  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s biggest carrier, rose 0.5
percent to A$2 today, extending this week’s gain to 8.1 percent.
 Virgin Blue Holdings Ltd. (VBA) , parent of the nation’s second-ranked
carrier, Virgin Australia, surged 9.5 percent and has risen 21
percent this week on speculation the airline will win over Tiger
flyers.  ‘Show Cause’ Notice  Tiger has a fleet of 10 Airbus SAS A320 planes in
Australia. Its main Singapore operations are unaffected by the
suspension.  The Australia halt may be lifted before Aug. 1 if the
regulator is satisfied by safety standards at an earlier date,
CASA said yesterday in a statement. Tiger said it is confident
it can resolve the issues in the “coming days and weeks.”  The safety agency was monitoring Tiger since issuing a
 “show cause”  notice in March asking why the carrier should
keep its air operating certificate. The regulator earlier
imposed conditions, including improving pilot proficiency and
better maintenance control.  Tiger, which began domestic Australian flights in November
2007, has hubs in Melbourne and Adelaide. The airline has kept
costs and fares down since entering the market through steps
including charging extra for food, airport check-in and checked-
in luggage.  Qantas and Virgin Australia have taken steps to help
stranded Tiger passengers, including offering special fares.
Qantas and its budget unit Jetstar had 252 planes and about
5,600 domestic flights a week as of September, their websites
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  