-- 
Lighter-Than-Air Samsung Tackles Apple’s Air: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-07-06T20:06:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/lighter-than-air-samsung-leads-macbook-wannabes-tech-by-rich-jaroslovsky.html
In the realm of ultra-thin, ultra-
light  laptop computers ,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s MacBook Air set the bar.  No one else even came close -- until now. Thanks to a new
generation of notebooks running  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 7
operating system, new laptops featuring stylish designs, more-
powerful processors and speedy storage have taken on Apple in
this rarefied niche.  Don’t get me wrong: The latest Air, introduced last year,
remains the gold standard. It uses chips rather than a
conventional hard drive to store data, making it lightning swift
to start up, while even the larger of its two models, with a 13-
inch screen, weighs just 2.9 pounds (1.32 kilograms).  Its smaller sibling, which has an 11-inch screen and weighs
2.3 pounds, is my main traveling companion these days. Using
Apple’s free Boot Camp program, I’ve been able to easily run
Windows and Microsoft Office on it despite its constrained, 128-
gigabyte storage capacity.  You, however, may not need or want the Air’s Mac-ness. In
addition, you may want more up-to-date hardware (at least until
a likely update this summer, the Air uses two-generation-old
microprocessors).  Here are three of the most capable Windows-only
alternatives.  Samsung Series 9  It’s black where the Air is silver, and wavy where the Air
is razor-edged. But if you want the closest Windows equivalent
to the Apple experience, look no further. The Series 9 from
Samsung Electronics Co. is both gorgeous and capable.  At 2.89 pounds, the Series 9 is a hair lighter than the
Air. The 13-inch screen lives up to Samsung’s reputation for
bright and beautiful displays. And it features  Intel Corp. (INTC) ’s
latest-generation “Sandy Bridge” microprocessor, four
gigabytes of memory and a 128-gigabyte solid-state drive.  Unfortunately, it all comes at a price, figuratively and
literally. The nice screen and CPU cut down on battery life: I
was able to coax just 4 hours while streaming a Netflix movie
over Wi-Fi. And, at $1,650, the Series 9 costs $250 more than an
Air with comparable screen, memory and storage.  Lenovo ThinkPad X1  Ever since the days when  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  owned the brand, ThinkPads have defined a certain class of
portable computers: sturdy business companions that make up in
reliability what they lack in pizzazz. That’s still the case
under  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) ’s ownership. The X1, with its  Corning
Inc. (GLW)  Gorilla Glass screen and solid construction, certainly has
the sturdy part down. But the X1 brings a little unaccustomed
flash to the party too.  Start with that classic keyboard. Sure, it has the
ThinkPad’s trademark orange eraser-like pointer protruding from
between the G and H. But the keys themselves are generously
sized and slightly concave, making for a comfortable typing
experience. And at less than an inch at its thickest part, it’s
the skinniest ThinkPad ever.  At 3.7 pounds, the X1 is almost a pound heavier than some
of its competitors. And Lenovo opted for the higher capacity of
a physical hard drive -- 320 gigabytes at 7200 RPM in the $1,399
base model -- over faster but more limited-capacity solid-state
storage.  The X1 still emphasizes function over form, but the form
has gotten a lot nicer.  Toshiba Portege R830  What  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s Portege line lacks in elegance, it
makes up for in value. The lightweight R830 offers the broadest
range of MacBook Air-substitutes, with models starting at under
$800.  At those prices, there’s some obvious corner-cutting. The
R830 case lacks the elegant design and solid feel of the
Samsung, for example, and the lower-end models use poky 5400 RPM
hard drives, a far cry from the solid-state storage that makes
the MacBook and Samsung feel so zippy.  Moving up the price ladder, however, you get the R830-
S8330. It’s $1,649, and comes with SSD storage, a top-flight
Intel i7 processor and even a DVD drive, something that’s
missing from the competition. The Samsung has it beat for
portability and elegance, but the Toshiba comes the closest to a
desktop replacement in an ultra-portable package.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 