-- 
Lilly, Novartis, Rackspace, Time Warner, Microsoft: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-07-06T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/lilly-novartis-rackspace-time-warner-intellectual-property.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , whose best-selling
schizophrenia drug Zyprexa survived a U.K. court challenge by
generic makers two years ago, lost a bid to dismiss another
lawsuit over the medicine’s patent in Britain.  Judge  Christopher Floyd  in the  High Court  in London
yesterday denied Lilly’s request for a judgment without trial
against Neopharma Ltd., the closely held company that has
European marketing rights for the generic version of the drug
known chemically as olanzapine. One of Neopharma’s three claims
in the case was dismissed.  While Floyd agreed Neopharma should be allowed to introduce
“fresh evidence” in the dispute, he said the company was
unlikely to succeed and ordered it to post a 200,000 pound
($321,400) security to pay Lilly’s legal fees if it loses.  The disputed patent held by Indianapolis-based Lilly was
upheld by the U.K. Court of Appeal in December 2009 against a
challenge by the Indian generic-drug maker Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories Ltd. The drug survived a parallel U.S. challenge in
2006 and went on to generate worldwide sales last year of more
than $5 billion.  “This decision granting summary judgment for part of the
case and security for costs for the remainder of the case in
these circumstances, is unprecedented,” said Mark Sudwell, a
U.K.-based spokesman for Eli Lilly. The ruling “confirms
Lilly’s confidence in the strength of the olanzapine patent.”  Neopharma, which presently has no operations, briefly sold
its generic version of the drug in Britain in 2008, before a
court injunction forced it to stop. The case was put on hold
until the Dr. Reddy’s lawsuit was resolved.  Neopharma’s lawyer, Antony Watson, argued the case should
go to trial because he will introduce claims against the patent
that haven’t yet been addressed in the U.K. Lilly claims those
arguments were rejected by courts in the Czech Republic,
Slovakia, Canada and the U.S. and needn’t be heard.  Novartis’s Lucentis Drug Cleared in MedImmune Patent Case  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Lucentis blindness treatment doesn’t infringe
two European patents held by  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s MedImmune unit
and a U.K.-financed research agency, a judge ruled in London
yesterday.  The patents, held jointly by MedImmune and the U.K. Medical
Research Council, are “obvious” because the claimed invention
was disclosed earlier by another researcher in the field, Judge
Richard Arnold ruled.  “It follows that both patents are invalid,” Arnold said
in the 261-page ruling. Another trial may be held to determine
an unresolved dispute in the priority dates of the patents, he
said.  Lucentis , developed by  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and its Genentech
unit, last year generated sales of $1.53 billion for Basel,
Switzerland-based Novartis, which markets the drug outside the
U.S. The U.K. lawsuit was filed a month after Lucentis failed to
win the backing of Britain’s National Institute of Health and
Clinical Excellence in draft guidance on the treatment of
diabetic macular edema.  “We continue to believe that the patents are valid and
infringed by Novartis’ activities in respect of Lucentis,”
AstraZeneca spokeswoman Isabelle Jouin said in a statement.
“MedImmune will be seeking permission to appeal.”  Roche sells the drug in the U.S.  The case is MedImmune Ltd. v. Novartis Pharmaceuticals,
High Court of Justice,  Chancery Division , No. HC09C04770.  Google Left Searching for New Patent Assets After Nortel Loss  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s loss in bidding for the $4.5 billion
portfolio of Nortel Networks Corp. patents last week means the
Internet-search company will be looking to buy other inventions
to build a bulwark against lawsuits targeting its Android
system, patent brokers said.  “There are a lot of phenomenal portfolios for sale,” said
Dean Becker, chief executive officer of ICAP Patent Brokerage in
 Palm Beach , Florida, the world’s largest patent seller. “Every
operating company is in the market because of the expense,
distraction and the potential financial risk of patent
litigation.”  Google, with $36.7 billion in cash and securities as of
March, is ramping up efforts to obtain patents to create what it
calls a disincentive for companies to sue amid “an explosion”
in litigation. Last week’s Nortel auction, the biggest of its
kind, followed Google’s $900 million offer in April to buy the
more than 6,000 patents owned by the Canadian phone-equipment
maker that filed for bankruptcy protection in 2009.  Winning the Nortel portfolio, which went to a group led by
Cupertino, California-based  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , would have boosted
Google’s patent holdings almost ninefold from at least 701
presently issued, according to U.S. Patent & Trademark Office
records. The increase would have given  Mountain View ,
California-based Google more ammunition against lawsuits, which
have increased since the world’s largest Internet-search company
moved into areas such as mobile and desktop operating systems to
broaden sales.  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  has sued Google directly, and Apple has gone
after makers of phones that use Google’s Android mobile
operating system, including  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Samsung Electronics
Co.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  also has demanded licensing revenue from
makers of products that run on Android, and has filed a trade
complaint seeking to block U.S. imports of Barnes & Noble Inc.’s
Android-based Nook reader.  While the company wouldn’t comment for this story, Google
executives have criticized the challenges of patent lawsuits.  In an April 4 blog posting, Google General Counsel Kent
Walker described “an explosion of patent litigation, often
involving low-quality software patents” and said the Nortel bid
was going to discourage lawsuits against Google.  “One of a company’s best defenses against this kind of
litigation is (ironically) to have a formidable patent
portfolio,” Walker said in the blog post.  In a July 1 e-mail he called the announcement of Google
being outbid “disappointing for anyone who believes that open
innovation benefits users and promotes creativity and
competition.”  The winning group included some Apple competitors-turned-
partners: Microsoft,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
Ericsson AB and EMC Corp., according to a Nortel statement.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Rackspace Opposes Aussie Trademark Registration for Rival  Rackspace Hosting Inc. (RAX) , a San Antonio-based website hosting
company, opposed the registration of a competitor’s Australian
trademark,  according to  Australia’s ITNews website.  The company filed opposition papers with IP Australia,
seeking to halt the registration of a trademark for  Rack Servers
Pty Ltd.  of Nundah, Australia, the website reported.  The filing was done so that Rackspace doesn’t miss a chance
to pursue a claim against Rack Servers if the Texas company
decides legal action is warranted, ITNews reported.  Rackspace didn’t address whether its trademark opposition
indicated that the company was considering a more aggressive
marketing effort in Australia, according to ITNews.  ZeniMax Files Application to Register ‘Dishonored’ Trademark  ZeniMax Media Inc., publisher of the Doom, Quake and Rage
computer games, may be coming out with a new product line, if a
recent trademark filing is any indication.  The Rockville, Maryland-based company filed an application
with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office June 17 to register
‘Dishonored” as a trademark.  According to the application, closely held ZeniMax plans to
use the mark with computer games and the provision of online
computer games.  Vietnamese Crocodile Famers Want Trademark for Their Products  The Sai Gon Crocodile Village, a venture established by the
Hoa Ca Crocodile Co. and the Xuan Loc Cooperative, is planning
to acquire a trademark for its products, Voice of Vietnam News
 reported .  The village has a crocodile breeding farm, a restaurant
that serves crocodile-meat dishes, a workshop in which products
from crocodile skin are made, a processing house that packs
crocodile meat for export and domestic consumption, according to
Voice of Vietnam News.  Because of the lack of a trademark and active efforts at
promotion, Vietnam presently produces only 0.0001 percent of the
world output of crocodile products, Voice of Vietnam reported.  Although regulations of the  Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora  bar the
hunting of crocodiles, CITES has given some Vietnamese companies
licenses to export products made from crocodile farms, according
to Voice of Vietnam.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Warner Movie Stills Can Be Exploited in a Limited Fashion  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Brothers Entertainment achieved
partial victory in a case involving the use of movie publicity
stills.  The studio sued five companies that license images taken
from publicity materials for the films “Gone With the Wind,”
“Wizard of Oz,” and several “Tom and Jerry” animated
features.  In the lawsuit filed in federal court in St. Louis in March
2006, Warner Brothers accused the companies of infringing its
copyrights to the films.  The trial court, in an order in March 2010, told the
companies they couldn’t license or use for commercial gain
images from the movies, or altered images from public-domain
movie publicity materials.  In that order, U.S. District Judge Henry Edward Autrey said
the defendants were like “naughty selfish children”  for
continuing to gain “unfairly and illegally” from Warner
Brothers’ protected works.  The defendants appealed. On July 5, the 8th U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals said that the trial court reached too far with
its order. The movie publicity stills were in the public domain
and no reasonable jury could find that “merely printing a
public domain image on a new style of surface” infringed, the
court said.  The defendant companies were still barred from creating
three-dimensional images or from juxtaposing those images with
content taken from underlying works, such as phrases from the
books on which the films are based.  The court said that such use would be adding new elements
of expression to the protected content in the films and would
therefore infringe.  The case in the trial court is Warner Brothers
Entertainment Inc., v. Dave Grossman Creations Inc., 4:06-cv-
00546-HEA, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Missouri
(St. Louis). The appeal is Warner Brothers Entertainment Inc. v.
X One X Productions, 10-1743, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Eighth Circuit.  LucasFilm Copyright Complaint Leads to Greenpeace Takedown  LucasFilm Ltd. demanded that Google Inc.’s YouTube video-
sharing site take down  Greenpeace ’s satire of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
advertisement featuring a child in a Darth Vader costume,
MarketingWeek reported.  Volkswagen told MarketingWeek it had an agreement to use
the Darth Vader image.  The Greenpeace ad, which faults the automaker on its
environmental record, is still available on the advocacy group’s
website, according to MarketingWeek.  Volkswagen said it hadn’t taken any action against
Greenpeace related to the campaign, MarketingWeek reported.  Spain’s SGAE Rights Society Raided, Officials Arrested  Nine people from Spain’s Society of Authors & Editors,
Spain’s music-royalty collecting group, were arrested as part of
an investigation of allegations of financial misconduct,
Billboard  reported .  The investigation is related to allegations that funds from
a tax on music-storage devices may have been diverted, according
to Billboard.  The society said in a statement on its website that it was
surprised when the arrests were made, that it’s cooperating with
authorities and that its accused executives are innocent,
Billboard reported.  South Korea’s Copyright Commission to Open Overseas Offices  South Korea’s Copyright Commission will increase the number
of overseas copyright offices to include Vietnam and Los
Angeles, the Korea Herald  reported .  Data from the commission indicate that about 80 percent of
China’s major music websites and web portals are using Korean
content without authorization, according to the Korea Herald.  Yu Byong-han, the new chairman of the commission, said his
office will develop an index to measure how much Korean content
is pirated, according to the newspaper.  The commission is seeking certification of its copyright
education center from the World  Intellectual Property 
Organization, the Korea Herald reported.  Glaswegian Convicted of Mobile-Phone Film Piracy  A resident of Glasgow, Scotland, was convicted of illegally
using his mobile telephone to record the Ridley Scott “ Robin
Hood ” film in a theater, the Scotsman newspaper  reported .  Christopher Clark, 25, pleaded guilty to a violation of the
U.K.’s Copyright, Designs and Patents Act, according to the
newspaper.  An investigator from the Federation Against Copyright
Theft, a U.K. film-industry trade group, caught Clark with the
entire film on his mobile phone after a press screening of
“Robin Hood,” a night before its official world premier at the
Cannes International Film Festival, the Scotsman reported.  Clark’s conviction is the first of its kind in Scotland,
according to the newspaper.  For more copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Barnes & Thornburg Adds Kevin R. Erdman to IP Practice Group  Barnes & Thornburg LLP hired Kevin R. Erdman for its
intellectual-property practice, the Indianapolis-based firm said
in a statement.  Erdman, who does both transactional work and litigation,
joins from Baker & Daniels LLP, also based in Indianapolis. His
clients are medical technology and bioinformatics companies,
software companies and manufacturers.  He has an undergraduate degree in computer science from
Indiana University and a law degree from the University of
Pennsylvania.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 