-- 
In Banking, There’s No Such Thing as Too Far Away to Fail: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-07-06T04:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/in-banking-there-s-no-such-thing-as-too-far-away-to-fail-bloomberg-view.html
According to a new Bloomberg
Government report, as many as 100 financial firms with non-U.S.
owners will be subject to new  rules  intended for systemically
important institutions, or those whose failure could rock the
whole financial system.  That means 79 percent of all the firms that are likely to
have to limit proprietary trading and have larger capital
cushions, to name two rules, will not be American owned. This is
an entirely good thing.  Before the non-U.S. banks get too agitated about being more
closely supervised by the U.S. government, they would be well
advised to remember which institutions needed help from the
 Federal Reserve  during the intense liquidity squeeze of 2008. Of
the $110.7 billion borrowed from the Fed in late October 2008,
at least 70 percent was by non-U.S. banks.  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CS) , based in Zurich, borrowed as much as $45 billion, according
to Fed documents.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , based in
Edinburgh, got at least $30 billion.  The Fed says those loans have been repaid with interest. At
the time, though, no one else in the financial system had the
nerve or the resources to make such extensive support available.
The Fed was shouldering considerable risk by stepping in as the
lender of last resort. It’s understandable -- and, in fact,
essential -- that regulators would want to reduce the chances of
having to engage in such large-scale interventions again.  Fine-Tuning Governance  Several non-U.S. institutions, such as Deutsche Bank, are
fine-tuning the management and governance of their U.S. arms so
that they can operate more comfortably under regulations
prescribed by the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law. Other
non-U.S. institutions may decide to sell their American
offshoots. Neither of those responses should be troubling.
Banking assets and jobs would presumably remain in the U.S.,
with greater local control. A not-incidental principle would be
underscored: Access to the U.S. market is a privilege, one that
comes with the responsibility of obeying U.S. laws.  One of Dodd-Frank’s most pressing missions is to eliminate
free-rider problems, in which market participants could pursue
aggressive profit-seeking strategies in boom times, knowing that
if everything went badly, the losses would be society’s problem.
Requiring all large banks, no matter who owns them, to abide by
rules meant to prevent systemic failure is a case where the
Dodd-Frank remedy is sized just right for an interconnected
world.  Read more Bloomberg View  editorials.   To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 