-- 
Tin Recyclers in China’s South Cut Output on Environmental Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-06T04:09:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/tin-recyclers-in-china-s-south-cut-output-on-environmental-curbs.html
Tin recyclers in southern areas of
 China , the largest consumer, have cut production as the
government toughened environmental checks and imposed power
restrictions.  “Most producers in Guangdong have suspended more than half
of their capacity, as was ordered by the local government, and
also partly due to power restrictions,” Zhao Maohe, general
manager of Shenzhen Yuta Tin Co., said by phone from Shenzhen.
“It’s hard to say when production will return to normal.”  Guangdong is the largest recycler accounting for more than
10 percent of the nation’s total tin output, according to
researcher Beijing Antaike Information Development Co. China has
tightened environmental checks on metal producers following
reports that residents living near lead plants were found with
excessive levels of the metal in their blood.  “Local tin prices are being boosted by the production
losses,” said Wu Xiaofeng, an analyst at data provider SMM
Information & Technology. “But as the output in Guangdong isn’t
big, and only supplies the local market, there is no impact so
far on markets elsewhere.”  Three-month tin traded on the London Metal Exchange has
fallen 22 percent from a record in April to $26,350 a ton. The
metal used in soldering may rally 15 percent to $30,000 a ton by
Dec. 31, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Soldering plants in Guangdong and Zhejiang are also
affected due to power restrictions and the environmental
clampdown, said SMM’s Wu.  Lead-acid battery plants and recyclers in Zhejiang,
Guangdong, Sichuan and Henan provinces suspended production from
mid-May after hundreds were poisoned. Power supply remains tight
in southern China because of high temperatures and insufficient
coal supply, the National Development and Reform Commission said
June 28.  China produced 164,399 tons of tin last year, data from the
National Bureau of Statistics showed.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  