-- 
Supreme Court Orders India Temple to Keep $20 Billion Treasure in Museum

-- B y   P . S .   P a t n a i k   a n d   J a y   S h a n k a r
-- 
2011-07-06T07:26:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/india-supreme-court-orders-20-billion-temple-treasure-be-kept-in-museum.html
India’s  Supreme Court  ordered
authorities in the southern state of Kerala to set up a museum
to help preserve a treasure worth at least $20 billion
discovered at a Hindu temple.  The museum may either be attached to the temple or the gold
coins, diamonds and other precious stones may be housed in a
facility run by the state in its capital Thiruvananthapuram,
judges R.V. Raveendran and A.K. Patnaik said in their interim
order today in New Delhi. Curators should also be hired to
appraise the value of the items, they said.  Bags of diamonds, an 18-foot (5.5 meter) gold necklace and
19 kilograms (42 pounds) of precious coins are among the 900
billion rupees ($20 billion) of items found so far, according to
the website of the  Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple  in Kerala. The
chambers were opened after a local lawyer asked the court to
take stock of what was in the temple amid accusations that it
was being mismanaged.  The court also told the state to lock up the remaining
riches, left out of display from the planned museum, in a vault.  The temple is run by a trust controlled by descendants of
the royal family of Travancore, who ruled an area that is now
part of southern  Kerala  state until after the country gained
independence from the British in 1947. The treasure is thought
to have  been given  to the temple by the royal family, the Times
of  India  reported.  Indians who follow the Hindu faith frequently make
donations at temples, with offerings such as cash, gold and
jewelry. The proceeds from such donations are used by the
administration for running the temple and for charity work.  The Kerala government has deployed a 24-hour police force
in and around the 16th-century temple following the  discovery 
over the last three days. Other items in the opened vaults
include gold ropes and antique jewelry studded with diamonds and
emeralds, according to the temple’s website.  ---With assistance from Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai and
Andrew MacAskill in  London . Editors: Sam Nagarajan, Abhay Singh  To contact the reporters on this story:
PS Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Jay Shankar in Bangalore News at 
 jshankar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at   samnagarajan@bloomberg.net ;
Arijit Ghosh at   aghosh@bloomberg.net  