-- 
Ireland May Be Next to Face Junk Status After Moody’s Downgrades Portugal

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-07-06T13:37:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/ireland-may-be-next-to-face-junk-status-as-moody-s-cuts-portugal.html
Ireland’s credit rating may be cut to
junk by Moody’s Investors Service after  Portugal  yesterday lost
its investment grade rating, according to analysts.  Moody, which slashed Portugal to Ba2 from Baa1, in April
lowered Ireland’s credit rating to the lowest investment grade
Baa3 and left country’s outlook on negative.  The ratings company cut Portugal’s rating in part because
the nation may not be able to return to debt markets in the
second half of 2013. Ireland has been locked out of markets
since September, and the yield on 10-year Irish bonds climbed to
12.44 percent today, a euro-area record for the country that
agreed to a rescue package with the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund  last November.  “If not re-entering the public funding markets has
significance for a sovereign’s rating, then clearly if our view
proves correct, then Ireland will suffer an imminent
downgrade,” Cathal O’Leary, head of fixed income sales at
Dublin-based NCB Stockbrokers, said in a note today.  The yield on Irish two-year notes climbed 239 basis points
to 15.27 percent as of 2:35 p.m. in  London , the first time it
has been above 15 percent.  The downgrade of Portugal highlighted “contagion risks”
for Ireland,  Goodbody Stockbrokers  said today. Moody’s said
potential investor involvement in a new Greek bailout makes it
more likely the EU will require creditors to eventually
contribute to aiding the Portuguese.  Portugal joined  Greece  as the second euro country rated
non-investment grade by Moody’s, which suggested the government
may struggle to meet the terms of its bailout.  Troika Arrive  Ireland is achieving the targets of its rescue agreement,
Irish junior minister Brian Hayes said in an interview with
Dublin-based broadcaster RTE, ahead of planned talks today with
representatives of the rescue partners.  Representatives of the  European Central Bank , International
Monetary Fund and European Commission, the so-called troika, are
in Dublin today for the quarterly review of Ireland’s bailout.  “The important point is that we are on target,” Hayes
said in the interview. “The key task is to get out of this
program.”  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said yesterday he may seek
a bigger budget correction than the 3.6 billion euros planned
for 2012, to ensure the government meets its target of narrowing
the fiscal deficit to 8.6 percent of gross domestic product next
year.  “Ireland may not be treated in the same manner as
Portugal,” Conall MacCoille, an economist at Dublin-based
securities firm Davy, said in a note today, citing the
government’s progress in meeting its deficit goals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  