-- 
Downgrades in Portugal, Ireland to Spark Rally, No. 1 Bond Investor Says

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-07-07T11:23:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/irish-portuguese-downgrade-to-spark-rally.html
Europe ’s best-performing sovereign
debt fund manager over the last decade, Sandor Steverink,
correctly predicted Portugal’s downgrade this week and says
Ireland will soon follow. Then it’s time to buy, he says.  Steverink, who is co-head of a team managing 26 billion
euros ($37.3 billion) at Dutch insurer  Delta Lloyd NV (DL) , plans to
buy Irish bonds once the ratings companies cut the debt to junk
as Moody’s Investors Service did with Portugal on July 5. The
extra yield investors demand for holding 10-year Portuguese
bonds instead of the equivalent German bund surged yesterday to
10.13 percentage points, the most since at least 1997, before
falling by as much as 43 basis points today.  “What we’ve learned from emerging markets is that you get
only a full recovery after a proper restructuring,” Steverink,
40, said in a telephone interview. “We think that’s necessary
for Greece and, in the end, probably for Ireland and  Portugal ,
too. We prefer Ireland above Portugal.”  Holders of Greek debt reaped the best returns of any
sovereign-debt market in the two weeks after the government
approved austerity policies and secured more European Union aid
to pay creditors. Steverink’s  Delta Lloyd Instl Obligatie LT 
fund has returned 5.8 percent a year since 2001, making it
Europe’s best-performing euro-denominated government bond fund
with more than 500 million euros of assets over the past three,
five and 10 years, according to  Morningstar Inc.  Competitors at
 Aegon NV  and Natixis SA say there are less risky ways to profit
from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis.  Greek Rebound  Greek bonds returned 12 percent in a month after  Standard &
Poor’s  slashed the country’s rating three steps to BB+, the top
non-investment grade, on April 27, 2010, according to indexes
compiled by the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies and Bloomberg. Greek debt is today rated CCC, the
lowest rating of any government in Europe.  Irish bonds are rated BBB+ by S&P, three steps above junk
status, while Portuguese bonds, which still has an investment-
grade BBB- rating with S&P, were cut to Ba2 with negative
outlook by Moody’s. Portuguese bonds lost 8.1 percent last year,
their worst performance since at least 1994. Ireland declined
14.2 percent, the biggest drop since Bloomberg started compiling
data in 1993.  Steverink said he prefers Irish bonds to Portuguese because
the country’s debt burden was caused by the banks. The country
doesn’t have the “structural problems” of southern Europe’s
economies, he said. Ireland also has more potential to export
its way out of trouble, he said.  Aegon,  Natixis (KN)   Ina Goedhart, Steverink’s colleague, said yesterday the
fund would wait at least a month before buying Portuguese bonds
because during that time there will be many forced sellers who
can’t hold  junk bonds .  Erik Leseman, who runs  Aegon’s Euro AAA Bond fund  in  The
Hague , and Olivier De Larouziere, who manages Paris-based
Natixis Asset Management’s Souverains Euro fund, disagree with
the Delta Lloyd managers, saying the core euro-area countries
such as Germany are safer investments.  Leseman, 39, who helps manage 20 billion euros for Aegon,
aims to profit by using derivatives to bet on an increase in
yields from shorter-dated German bonds. His Aegon Euro AAA Bond
fund can only invest in triple-A rated debt.  “Market sentiment about the periphery is a strong driver
of flight to quality, which influences the short end of the
German curve,” he said. “We’re seeing it flow out of the core
in the last week and we think that will continue. That’s why we
are positioned for higher short-term rates in  Germany .”  ‘Very Volatile’  Leseman’s Aegon Euro AAA Bond fund, which has 1.9 billion
euros of assets, has returned 4.4 percent annually for the last
five years, putting it second only to the Delta Lloyd fund,
according to Chicago-based Morningstar.  “Sentiment is very volatile at the moment,” Leseman said.
“It’s going up and down every few weeks when a deadline comes
up for one of these periphery countries. One of the main things
I’m looking at right now is what’s coming out of the mouths of
the Irish and Portuguese politicians.”  Ireland followed Greece and sought a rescue seven months
ago to inject money into its debt-laden financial system and
cover day-to-day spending rather than paying back maturing debt.
Ireland’s budget deficit widened to 10.8 billion euros in the
six months to June from 8.9 billion euros a year earlier,
according to the  Finance Ministry .  ‘Always Difficult’  Portugal received 78 billion euros from the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund  in May. Moody’s cut the
country’s credit rating to below investment grade on concern the
country will seek another bailout. The bond investors are also
skeptical Portugal will be able to cut spending, boost
productivity and revenue.  De Larouziere, whose  Natixis Souverains Euro  fund is
Europe’s sixth-best performing European government bond fund
with more than 500 million euros of assets over the last decade,
says it’s too early to be buying debt of euro-peripheral
countries such as Portugal.  “This downgrade seemed inevitable, but the market timing
is always difficult,” he said. “With Portugal now being rated
in the high-yield category, many investors with rating
constraints will be forced to sell positions. It is still too
early to even consider changing our view.”  De Larouziere, who owns no Portuguese debt, holds nine-
month money-market investments in Ireland and is selling medium-
term Spanish bonds.  ‘Too Positive’  “ Spain  has made great efforts in terms of communication to
the market, which has been received very positively,” said De
Larouziere, 43. “We think this is too positive if you consider
how systemically risky the country is. It will be much more
difficult for the institutions to deal with a Spanish crisis.”  De Larouziere’s 500 million-euro fund has returned 4.5
percent annually for the last 10 years, compared with his peer
group average of 3.96 percent, according to Morningstar.  His favored holdings are German, French and Italian debt
“on the longer end of the curve” because of their liquidity.
He also owns Austrian and Dutch debt, he said.  One point that all three managers agree on is that turmoil
in  Greece  won’t break up the  euro zone . In fact, it may force
the region to form closer political and fiscal ties, they said.  “We are talking today about maybe the common minister of
finance for the euro zone,” De Larouziere said. “This would
have been unthinkable only a few months ago. We created new
Eurobonds. That was unthinkable as well. A  United States  of
Europe is a real possibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  