-- 
Israeli Tax on Foreigners’ Interest May Not Be Enough to Halt Shekel Surge

-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-07-06T21:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/israeli-tax-on-foreigners-interest-may-not-be-enough-to-halt-shekel-surge.html
Israeli tax measures to curb the 14
percent gain in the shekel in the past year may fail if similar
moves by  Brazil  to stem advances in its currency are a guide.  Israel  will start taxing foreigners as much as 24 percent
today on interest income from Makams, short-term bills issued by
the Bank of Israel. The shekel has advanced 7 percent against
the dollar since the plans were announced Jan. 27, as the
central bank raised interest rates to stem inflation. Brazil’s
real has gained 47 percent since the end of 2008 even as policy
makers raised taxes on local debt purchases to stem the advance.  “Capital control measures didn’t have an impact in Brazil
and much of the same can be expected here,” Adiv Kabiri, a
senior dealer at Gift Asset Management Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said by
telephone. “As long as the Israeli economy continues to grow at
a stronger pace than the U.S., there is no reason for investors
to change their positions.”  Near-zero interest rates in the U.S. are making investments
in higher-yielding securities more attractive as central banks
from Brazil to  China  raise borrowing costs, boosting their
currencies and hurting exporters by making their goods more
expensive in dollar terms. Foreigners held 34.5 percent of Makam
bills in May, up from 22.4 percent a year ago and 5.1 percent at
the end of 2009, according to  data from the Bank of Israel .  Exports make up about 40 percent of Israel’s gross domestic
product, with about 60 percent of goods sold to the U.S. and
 Europe , the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said in January.  Brazil’s Efforts  A  tax exemption  on the central bank notes, originally
instituted to encourage foreign investment, is being ended on
concern it was “being used by players on the foreign exchange
market intending to make short-term profits and causing currency
appreciation that may impair the long-term competitiveness of
the market,” the Israel Tax Authority said May 15.  Brazil’s real rose to the strongest level since 1999 on
July 1 as speculation that  Greece  may resolve its debt crisis
boosted demand for the South American country’s assets. Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  said July 5 the Brazilian government was
“worried” about the real’s strength and may intervene in the
futures market. Mantega tripled a tax on overseas purchases of
local debt last year and this year increased a tax on new
corporate loans and debt sales abroad by banks.  “This is only a first step,” Nir Halperin, head of the
capital market department at the Israel Tax Authority said in
telephone interview. “If the market doesn’t react and shekel
appreciation isn’t curbed, there are more tools we can
implement.”  Israel also plans to cancel an exemption on  capital gains 
from Makams after legislation that the Tax Authority expects to
pass this month.  Reserve Requirements  The Bank of Israel this year required local lenders to meet
a 10 percent reserve requirement for foreign-exchange derivative
transactions by non-residents. Also, residents and non-residents
with foreign-exchange swaps and forwards of more than $10
million a day and non-residents who trade more than 10 million
shekels in Makam bills and other short-term  government bonds 
must report the transactions to the central bank, part of
efforts to increase transparency.  The central bank also has been buying foreign currency in
most months since March 2008, more than doubling reserves, in an
effort to moderate the shekel gains.  The share of non-residents in the total volume of foreign
exchange, option and swap transactions climbed to 52 percent in
May from 50 percent in April and 47 percent in March, the  Bank
of Israel said  June 9. Foreigners, who  invested  a net $500
million in Makam bills in April, were net sellers of $600
million of the bills in May, the  Bank of Israel  said July 5.  Rate Differential  “Although the profit margin on foreign exchange swap
positions, and on long shekel positions, might decrease, it
won’t lead to a situation in which foreign investors start
closing positions because the rate differential between Israel
and the developed countries will continue to expand in the
coming year,” said Modi Shafrir, chief economist at Tel Aviv-
based I.L.S. Brokers Ltd., who forecasts Israel’s benchmark rate
may climb to 4.25 percent in the next 12 months.  Central Bank Governor  Stanley Fischer  has raised  interest
rates  four times this year to 3.25 percent to stop inflation as
the economy recovers from the global recession faster than most
developed countries. Inflation reached 4.1 percent in May, above
the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent target for the fifth
consecutive month. Israel became the first country to increase
rates, from a record low of 0.5 percent in August 2009, after
the global economy showed signs of recovery from the financial
crisis.  Chile,  Colombia   Other countries also have moved to limit currency gains and
protect exporters. Chile’s peso has gained 1 percent this year
as the central bank carries out a plan to buy $12 billion in the
spot currency market. Colombia’s currency has advanced 8 percent
in 2011 even as officials announced plans in April to create an
overseas fund with as much as $1.2 billion from dollars bought
in the local market and forgo repatriating money from abroad for
the rest of the year.  Israel’s economy is likely to expand 5.2 percent this year,
the  Bank of Israel  said June 1. Growth slowed to an annualized
4.8 percent in the first quarter from 7.6 percent in the
previous three months, which was the fastest since 2006, the
Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  said June 16.  “We want foreigners to continue to invest in Israel,” the
Tax Authority’s Halperin said. “However, making gains on short-
term bonds, in particular by foreigners who have been selling
large amounts of dollars to buy Makams, isn’t an investment that
contributes to the country’s economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  