-- 
James “Whitey” Bulger Pleads Not Guilty to 48 Charges in Boston Court

-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-07-06T20:31:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/james-whitey-bulger-pleads-not-guilty-to-48-charges-in-boston-court.html
James “Whitey” Bulger, the  Boston 
mobster arrested in  California  last month after 16 years on the
run, pleaded not guilty to 48 charges including racketeering,
extortion,  money laundering , obstruction of justice, perjury and
weapons violations.  Bulger appeared in federal court today before U.S.
Magistrate Judge Marianne Bowler in Boston. He was represented
by criminal defense attorney J.W. Carney Jr., who was appointed
by Bowler last week. Bulger had asked the court to appoint a
lawyer to represent him, arguing that he couldn’t afford one
because the government seized more than $800,000 in cash from
his apartment after his arrest.  Bulger, 81, and his girlfriend, Catherine Greig, 60, were
arrested June 22 after the  Federal Bureau of Investigation ,
working on a tip, lured the fugitive out of an apartment
building in  Santa Monica , California.  The trial will last about four weeks and the government
will call as many as 40 witnesses, Assistant U.S. Attorney Brian
Kelly said in court today.  Bulger was wanted in connection with at least 19 murders
committed between 1973 and 1985 and a variety of crimes
including extortion, loan sharking, bookmaking and narcotics
trafficking. He was one of the FBI’s Top 10 most-wanted
fugitives. The bureau offered a $2 million reward for
information leading to his capture.  ‘More Serious’ Charges  He was indicted in May 2001 on the charges that he pleaded
not guilty to today. U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz in Boston said
on June 28 that she won’t pursue a 1994 indictment of Bulger for
extortion to focus on the newer, “more serious” charges,
according to a court filing.  Bulger would spend the rest of his life in prison if
convicted in connection with any murders with a predicate act of
racketeering, Ortiz said. The evidence in the newer case is
stronger while the older one weakened during the 16 years Bulger
was on the run from authorities, Ortiz said, noting that at
least two key witnesses have died.  The judge said a request from Carney filed yesterday to
appoint his partner Janice Bassil as co-counsel was “moot.”
Bassil in May won acquittal for the brother of Olympic figure
skater Nancy Kerrigan, Mark, who was accused of manslaughter in
connection with his 70-year-old father’s death. A jury found
Mark Kerrigan guilty of the lesser charge of assault and
battery.  ‘Enormous Undertaking’  Bassil’s work will be covered by Carney’s pay, Bowler said.
The maximum compensation the defense lawyers can bill the court
is $9,700, and Carney needs the court’s permission for a higher
amount, Bowler said. Bulger’s lawyers will be paid by taxpayers.  “The investigation of this case will be an enormous
undertaking, particularly since the average preparation time for
a single murder is usually 18 to 24 months,” Carney wrote in
the motion. “In addition, the case presents a host of complex
legal issues which must be researched and briefed.”  Former  Massachusetts  State Police Col. Thomas Foley, who
led the team of investigators who helped bring the first charges
against Bulger, said outside court today that “seeing him in
shackles, a broken man, is some kind of satisfaction to me
personally and hopefully to the families” of his alleged
victims.  Request Denied  In a separate hearing, U.S. District Judge Richard Stearns
denied a request by the family of one of Bulger’s alleged
victims, Michael Milano, for a temporary restraining order to
prevent the U.S. from “transferring, assigning, distributing or
otherwise disposing of their interest” in any money or assets
seized from Bulger after his arrest. Stearns said he didn’t have
the authority to issue such an order.  Milano’s family obtained a $2.2 million judgment in state
court in 2002 against Bulger for the wrongful death of Milano, a
Boston bartender who was gunned down in a botched hit by
Bulger’s gunman John Martorano. Martorano has admitted he was
sent to kill Milano’s boss and mistakenly shot Milano, who was
driving a similar car. None of the judgment has been paid.  The government in response asked the court to postpone the
request until the conclusion of the criminal case, saying that
Bulger’s assets may be used as evidence against him and that
granting the order “would hamper law enforcement’s ability to
reasonably investigate and prosecute this case.”  The case is U.S. v. Weeks, 99-cr-10371, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawren@aol.com ;
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  