-- 
Japan Machinery Orders Rise at Fastest Pace in Four Months on Rebuilding

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-07-06T23:59:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/japanese-machinery-orders-gain-in-may.html
Japan ’s machinery orders rose at the
fastest pace in four months in May, a sign companies are
increasing spending to restore businesses and production
disrupted by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Factory orders, an indicator of capital spending in three
to six months, increased 3 percent in May from April, the
Cabinet Office said today in  Tokyo , matching the median forecast
of 31 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Companies are forecasting profits to recover later this
year and stepping up spending plans as manufacturers restore
facilities and the government rolls out stimulus to rebuild from
a disaster that left more than 22,000 people dead or missing.
Komatsu Ltd., the world’s second-largest construction machinery
maker, said reconstruction plans are spurring demand.  “Companies’ willingness to spend on plant and equipment
hasn’t been dampened much by the earthquake,”  Yoshiki Shinke , a
senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo,
said before the report. “Looking ahead, orders will likely
increase because of demand for rebuilding.”  The Bank of Japan’s Tankan survey last week showed large
companies plan to boost  capital spending  4.2 percent in fiscal
2011, exceeding analysts’ forecasts for a 2.4 percent increase.
While sentiment among large manufacturers fell to minus 9 in
June, companies see the index improving to 2 in September. A
positive number means optimists outnumber pessimists.  Japan’s industrial production rose at the fastest pace in
more than 50 years in May, led by carmakers, a government report
showed last week.  Rebuilding Demand  Efforts to rebuild the damaged areas are spurring demand
for excavators and wheel loaders. Japanese orders increased more
than 30 percent in April-June from a year earlier, Komatsu’s
Chief Executive Officer Kunio Noji said on June 30.  “There’ll be much rebuilding work, given the damage is
more extensive than the Kobe earthquake,” Noji said, referring
to the 1995 quake that affected a smaller area and didn’t induce
a tsunami.  Japan’s government last month estimated the damage to
buildings, roads and other infrastructure from the March
disaster will be around 16.9 trillion yen ($209 billion), about
1.8 times bigger than the damage in the Kobe earthquake.  Sony Corp. plans to spend 120 billion yen in the fiscal
year ending March 2012 to boost production capacity of image
sensors, Executive Deputy President  Hiroshi Yoshioka  said last
week.  Economic Slump  The world’s third-largest economy shrank at a 3.5 percent
annualized pace in the three months through March, the second
quarterly contraction, as  consumer spending  and corporate
investment slumped in the aftermath of the quake.  A further 3 percent shrinkage is expected in the second
quarter, before growth resumes in the second half of the year,
according to the median forecast of economists in the Bloomberg
News survey.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  this week proposed a 2-
trillion yen ($25 billion) second extra budget, which is half
the size of outlays allocated in May.  Still, signs of slowing overseas economy may make it
difficult for Japan to count on demand from abroad to pull its
economy out of the slump after the temblor.  “The key to Japan’s recovery is whether the overseas
economy will return to a recovery path later this year,”  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities in Tokyo, said
before the report. “If the slowdown in global demand becomes
prolonged, companies may revise down their business outlook.”  Manufacturing growth slowed in  China  and  Europe , government
reports showed last week. Japan’s exports fell more than
economists estimated in May. China is Japan’s biggest export
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  