-- 
Japan Has Two Reactors Without Approval as Fukushima Raises Safety Concern

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-07-06T05:04:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/japan-has-two-nuclear-reactors-operating-without-government-approval.html
Kansai Electric Power Co. and
Hokkaido Electric Power Co. are operating two nuclear reactors
without approvals, four months after the Fukushima disaster
raised concern atomic power in  Japan  may not be safe.  A reactor at Kansai Electric’s Ohi nuclear plant is
operating at full capacity without the final go-ahead from the
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, Kazushige Maeda, a
spokesman for the Osaka-based utility, said by phone. The same
applies for a reactor at Hokkaido Electric’s Tomari plant,
spokesman Hisatoshi Kibayashi said.  Both units started test runs days before the March 11
earthquake and tsunami knocked out power and cooling systems at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, causing
three reactors to melt down in the worst nuclear disaster since
Chernobyl in 1986.  “It’s unusual the reactors are running for four months on
a test-run basis, but there is nothing illegal about it,” said
Tomohiro Sawada, an assistant director at NISA’s nuclear power
inspection division.  The approvals for the Ohi and Tomari reactors haven’t been
granted because  Kansai Electric  and Hokkaido Electric have yet
to submit requests to NISA, the spokesmen said. The utilities
are waiting for the government and NISA to address local safety
concerns before asking for approval, they said. Both reactors
are supplying power to the electricity grid.  Stress Tests  NISA checked the Ohi and Tomari reactors before the test
runs began, Sawada said. Utilities need to have final
inspections from NISA to check reactors are working as expected
after a test run, he said.  The government will carry out safety tests of all nuclear
plants in Japan, the third-biggest user of atomic energy after
the U.S. and  France , Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  said today.  “We need to conduct stress tests as soon as possible so we
can have a better sense of safety,” Kaieda told reporters in
 Tokyo . “We must put priority on testing reactors that are
preparing to restart.”  The checks will go beyond the measures ordered by the
government in the immediate aftermath of the disaster, which
included moving back-up generators to higher ground and
waterproofing reactor and turbine buildings.  Kaieda said on June 18 the government has inspected all
nuclear plants in Japan and concluded they have taken steps
to avoid a repeat of the Fukushima disaster.  He’s been urging local authorities in southwestern Japan to
agree to the restart of two reactors operated by Kyushu Electric
Power Co. that were idled for maintenance and due to restart in
April. The stress tests will be carried out on the reactors
before they go back online, Kaieda said today.  The safety checks on Japan’s plants will take into
consideration the wishes of residents near nuclear plants and
tests on nuclear plants in  Europe , he said.  The stress tests ordered by the European Commission, will
evaluate whether reactors can withstand disasters such as quakes
and floods, as well as plane crashes and explosions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  