-- 
Most Asian Stocks Climb as China Banks Gain After Central Bank Lifts Rates

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-07T10:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/japanese-australian-stock-futures-decline-as-china-raises-interest-rates.html
Most Asian stocks rose, with the
benchmark index trading near a two-month high, as Chinese
financial shares rose after the country raised interest rates,
boosting their profit outlook and countering losses by Japanese
nuclear-power generators.  Ping An Insurance (Group) Co., the nation’s No. 2 insurer
by market value, increased 0.9 percent in Hong Kong. Bank of
Communications Co. rose 1.2 percent in Hong Kong, leading banks
higher. Kansai Electric Power Co. led a drop by Japanese
electricity providers on concern the restart of idled reactors
will be delayed by a government order for stress tests on all
plants in Japan.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.04 point, or less than
0.1 percent, to 137.39 as of 7:35 p.m. in Tokyo, reversing a
gain of as much as 0.2 percent and earlier declines of 0.4
percent. About seven stocks gained for every six that fell on
the 1,018-member gauge. China raised benchmark interest rates
for a third time this year, adding to efforts to slow inflation
in the world’s fastest-growing economy.  “We’ve seen a marked cooling in China’s growth recently
and the next reading on inflation should mark a peak,” said
Nader Naeimi, a Sydney-based strategist for AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which has almost $100 billion under management
globally. “That suggests that we’re coming close to the end of
China’s tightening cycle, and this should be positive for global
growth, earnings and investor sentiment.”  Through yesterday, the Asia-Pacific index lost 2.4 percent
from this year’s high on May 2 amid concern a slowing U.S.
economy, Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and China’s steps to
curb inflation will crimp earnings.  Nikkei Slides  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average declined 0.1 percent as
manufacturers fell amid uncertainty about the extent to which
production will be curbed by power shortages from halted nuclear
generators.  The MSCI Asia Pacific excluding Japan Index, which tracks
shares outside of Japan, advanced 0.3 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng index climbed 0.1 percent. South Korea’s Kospi index rose
0.4 percent in Seoul while Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added
0.5 point, or less than 0.1 percent in Sydney.  In China, the central bank raised its benchmark interest
rates for the third time this year after inflation accelerated
to the fastest pace since July 2008. The People’s Bank of China
raised benchmark deposit and lending rates by 25 basis points.  “China’s interest-rate increase had already been factored
into the market, but there is concern the country may keep
raising rates,” said Mitsushige Akino, who oversees about $600
million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.
“We need to keep an eye on the movements in Chinese shares.”  Finances Rally  Ping An advanced 0.9 percent to HK$81.95. Rival AIA Group
Ltd. rose 1.7 percent to HK$27.75, the biggest boost to Hong
Kong’s  Hang Seng index. (HSI)  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China
Ltd., the nation’s largest listed lender by market value,
increased 0.2 percent to HK$5.79. Bank of Communications Co.
rose 1.2 percent to HK$7.46.  Financial shares posted the biggest gains on the Hang Seng
Index today after Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. said China’s
rate increase would be positive for banks’ net-interest margins.  “The insurers remain well positioned to benefit when rates
rise,” analysts led by Mark Kellock wrote in a report today.
“China’s life insurers have reduced their exposure to longer-
duration bonds in favor of shorter-dated deposits and cash with
the expectation that interest rates would again rise in 2011, at
which point they would be able to switch into longer-duration
assets at higher rates.”  Citigroup analyst Simon Ho said in a report recent
“weakness” in the banking industry is an opportunity to buy
its shares.  Financial shares also got a boost after Charles Dallara,
the managing director of the International Institute of Finance,
said Greek creditors may be willing to risk a planned and
managed default to help resolve the nation’s debt crisis.  ‘Temporary Selective Default’  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. rose 1 percent to 414
yen.  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  advanced 0.2 percent to
A$25.02. ICICI Bank Ltd. the Mumbai-based lender, increased 1.3
percent to 1,089.85 rupees.  “It may well be that some rating agencies reach judgments
that involve a selective default,” Dallara said in a Bloomberg
Television interview yesterday. “I don’t think that a temporary
period of selective default as it has been narrowly framed for
sovereigns in the past is necessarily the worst thing that could
happen here.”  Utilities as a group posted the biggest declines on the
MSCI Asia Pacific Index’s 10 industry groups today, dropping 2.1
percent, as Japanese electricity providers declined after the
nation’s Trade Minister, Banri Kaieda, said the nation will
carry out stress tests on all nuclear reactors to address
concerns in the wake of the Fukushima nuclear crisis.  ‘Very Difficult’  Kansai Electric slipped 8.4 percent to 1,452 yen. Chubu
Electric Power Co. fell 7 percent to 1,442 yen. Kyushu Electric
Power Co. lost 7.5 percent to 1,349 yen.  “It’s become very difficult for utilities to restart
nuclear plants before electricity demand reaches a peak in the
summer,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Hiroyuki Sakaida
wrote in a Japanese-language report dated yesterday. “Utilities
will unlikely be able to restart them before the stress tests
are over.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.3
percent today. The S&P rose 0.1 percent yesterday as gains in
transport, technology and consumer-staple companies overshadowed
a slowdown in service-industry growth and China’s interest-rate
increase.  TSMC, Toyota  Exporters fell after the Institute for Supply Management’s
index of U.S. non-manufacturing businesses in June decreased to
53.3 from 54.6 in May. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
forecast the gauge would drop to 53.7. A reading above 50
signals expansion.  Toyota Motor Corp. slumped 0.7 percent to 3,400 yen. Honda
Motor Co., which receives 84 percent of its sales outside Japan,
declined 0.9 percent to 3,215 yen. Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co., which receives more than half its sales from
America, lost 1.7 percent to NT$71.6 in Taipei.  Among other stocks that fell, HTC Corp. dropped 6.9 percent
to NT$1,020 after Citigroup Inc. raised concerns about the
company’s planned $300 million acquisition of S3 Graphics Co. by
cuttings its investment rating to “sell”.  Samsung Electronics Co., Korea’s largest company by market
capitalization, declined 2 percent to 880,000 won after posting
a drop in profit after flat-screen sales slumped. HTC and
Samsung were the heaviest drags on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 0.2 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a gain of 6.5 percent by the
S&P and a drop of 0.4 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.8 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.5 times for the S&P 500
and 11.1 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 