-- 
Japan Disaster Will Slow Nuclear Energy Growth, CH2M Hill Says

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-07-06T03:35:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/japan-disaster-will-slow-nuclear-energy-growth-ch2m-hill-says.html
Japan ’s nuclear disaster will slow
the growth of global nuclear  energy supply , and its share of
total electricity production will shrink in coming years, CH2M
Hill said.  “Nuclear brings out emotional responses,” said Lee
McIntire, chief executive officer of CH2M, the closely held
company involved in the clean-up of some U.S. nuclear weapons
facilities. “Nuclear will still be a big part of the world’s
energy supply, but it won’t grow as fast as everything else, so
the percentage share will go down.”  Governments around the world called for inspections of
existing nuclear sites, while  Germany  aims to exit atomic energy
by 2022 after a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami in March
caused meltdowns at the Fukushima plant north of  Tokyo ,
triggering the worst nuclear accident in 25 years. Nuclear
generates about 14 percent of the world’s electricity, McIntire
said yesterday in an interview in  Singapore .  About 30 percent of Germany’s electricity supply comes from
nuclear plants, and its planned exit may force the country to
import from France and Russia, which also rely on nuclear
energy, McIntire said. Nuclear energy supplied 74 percent of
power generated in France in 2010, while in Russia the share was
17 percent, according to the  World Nuclear Association  website.  In Japan, nuclear energy accounted for 29 percent of the
nation’s power supply in 2010, according to the association.  Cleaning up the areas around the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
may cost billions of dollars, and will probably take years,
McIntire said. His company helped turn  Rocky Flats , a former
nuclear weapons production site in Denver,  Colorado , into a
national wildlife refuge. The cleanup, completed in 2005, cost
the U.S. government $7 billion, according to the  Department of
Energy  website.  CH2M is an Englewood, Colorado-based company that handles
projects from water treatments to nuclear decontamination with
gross revenue of $6.3 billion in 2010, according to its  website .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  