-- 
Japan to Carry Out ‘Stress Tests’ on All Nuclear Reactors, Minister Says

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 
2011-07-06T07:18:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/japan-to-carry-out-stress-tests-on-all-nuclear-reactors-minister-says.html
Japan  will carry out safety tests of
all nuclear stations to address concerns among communities
hosting reactors, almost three weeks after the government
declared them safe in the wake of the Fukushima nuclear crisis.  “We need to conduct stress tests as soon as possible so we
can have a better sense of safety,” Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda 
told reporters in Tokyo today. “We must put priority on testing
reactors that are preparing to restart.”  Governments around the world have called for inspections of
atomic stations after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami in
caused the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl. Local
officials in Japan, including the governor of Hokkaido, have
called for more assurances, after Kaieda said on June 18 the
country’s nuclear operators had taken the proper steps to handle
a similar incident.  “The government wants to show Japanese atomic plants meet
international standards and to assure local residents reactors
are safe,” said Kazuhiko Kudo, a research professor of nuclear
engineering at Kyushu University. “It’s unlikely any reactors
will be declared unsafe.”  Japan’s safety checks will take into consideration similar
tests being carried out in  Europe  on nuclear plants that
evaluate whether reactors can withstand disasters such as quakes
and floods as well as plane crashes and explosions.  Pushing for Restarts  Kaida has been urging authorities in southwestern Japan to
agree to the restart of two reactors operated by Kyushu Electric
Power Co. that were idled for maintenance and due to restart in
April. The stress tests will be carried out on the reactors
before they go back online, Kaieda said today.  Demands for safety assurances followed three meltdowns at
 Tokyo Electric  Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi station after the
quake and tsunami knocked out power and cooling.  Kaieda’s turnaround came two weeks after Katsuhiko
Ishibashi, a seismology professor at Kobe University, called for
the closure of the nation’s 54 atomic reactors because none of
them can be guaranteed to withstand strong earthquakes.  Ishibashi warned of a catastrophic nuclear disaster
after  Tokyo  Electric’s Kashiwazaki Kariwa station was damaged by
an earthquake in 2007, leading to radiation leaks.  Opposition to nuclear power is increasing in Japan
following the crisis. The Nikkei newspaper reported this week
that 69 percent of respondents to a phone poll oppose the
restart of nuclear reactors currently shut for maintenance.  Regulatory Approval  Kaieda’s announcement coincided with the revelation today
that Kansai Electric Power Co. and Hokkaido Electric Power Co.
are operating two nuclear reactors without regulatory approvals.  A reactor at Kansai Electric’s Ohi nuclear plant is
operating at full capacity without the final go-ahead from the
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, Kazushige Maeda, a
spokesman for the Osaka-based utility, said today by phone. The
same applies for a reactor at Hokkaido Electric’s Tomari plant,
spokesman Hisatoshi Kibayashi said.  The reactors started test runs days before the quake and
tsunami.  “It’s unusual the reactors are running for four months on
a test-run basis, but there is nothing illegal about it,” said
Tomohiro Sawada, an assistant director at NISA’s nuclear power
inspection division.  The approvals for the Ohi and Tomari reactors haven’t been
granted because  Kansai Electric  and Hokkaido Electric have yet
to submit requests to NISA, the spokesmen said. The utilities
are waiting for the government and NISA to address local safety
concerns before asking for approval, they said. Both reactors
are supplying power to the electricity grid.  “NISA officials are dodging their responsibilities,” Kudo
at Kyushu University said.  NISA checked the Ohi and Tomari reactors before the test
runs began, Sawada said. Utilities need to have final
inspections from NISA to check reactors are working as expected
after a test run, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  