-- 
Jeter’s Pursuit of 3,000 Hits Doubles Prices for Rays-Yankees Home Series

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-06T15:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/jeter-s-pursuit-of-3-000-hits-doubles-prices-for-rays-yankees-home-series.html
Derek Jeter  is four hits shy of
3,000, and the chance to see history has more than doubled some
ticket prices for the  New York Yankees ’ next home series.  The Yankees play tonight in  Cleveland  and then return home
for four games against the  Tampa Bay Rays  on July 7-10, their
final series before  Major League Baseball ’s All-Star break.  Ticket prices to the July 9 game at Yankee Stadium are
averaging $165 on the secondary market, up from $77 last week,
according to  FanSnap.com , an Internet search engine that finds
seats on about 50 ticket-reselling Web sites.  “It’s clear the spike in ticket demand to this week’s Rays
series is because Yankees fans want to be there when the Captain
gets number 3,000,” Christian Anderson, a spokesman for  Palo
Alto , California-based FanSnap, said in an e-mail. “Expect to
see Yankee Stadium packed with fans who want to be there to see
history.”  Jeter, New York’s 37-year-old shortstop and team captain,
is seeking to become the 28th player in baseball history to
reach the 3,000-hit milestone and the first to do it as a
Yankee. He is averaging 1.09 hits a game this season and has had
two games with more than two hits. Jeter had two hits in last
night’s game in Cleveland.  The average ticket price for tomorrow’s series-opener
against the Rays is $138, according to FanSnap, while seats to
the July 8 game are being resold for $165, up 25 percent since
yesterday. The average ticket cost for July 10, the final game
before the All-Star break, is $158.  Hedge Bets  “The pundits may say Saturday, but the market’s not so
sure,” Anderson said. “Tickets to Friday’s and Saturday’s
games are both averaging $165. You can bet there are lots of
fans snapping up tickets for both days as a hedge.”  If Jeter doesn’t reach the milestone in the upcoming
series, he may not get his 3,000th hit at Yankee Stadium. After
the All-Star break, the Yankees travel to Toronto and Tampa,
 Florida , for an eight-game road trip.  The Yankees’ July 9 game against the Rays has the highest
average price for the series at $235, according to  SeatGeek.com ,
a search engine for tickets to sports events and concerts.
 TiqIQ.com , an event ticket aggregator that tracks listings from
StubHub, eBay, TicketNetwork and TicketsNow, also has Saturday’s
game at Yankee Stadium as the most expensive in the series, at
an average of $193.  “Prices will fluctuate with every hit as everyone will be
‘betting’ on which game he will get the milestone,” said Chris
Matcovich, a spokesman for Manhattan-based TiqIQ. “As he gets
closer, prices will continue to rise as there will be a major
premium to see the Captain get 3,000.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  