-- 
Jeter Approaches 3,000 Hits; Musial Ripe for Rediscovery: Books

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   S h r i b m a n
-- 
2011-07-06T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/jeter-approaches-3-000-hits-musial-is-ripe-for-rediscovery-sports-books.html
Everybody’s talking about  Derek Jeter ’s quest for 3,000 hits. When his career is over, though,
here’s what people will remember: He won a zillion honors but
most of all was he honorable.  Jeter now has a biography worthy of his achievements in Ian O’Connor’s “ The Captain: The Journey of Derek Jeter ” (Houghton
Mifflin Harcourt, $26). Jeter was a prodigy who turned into a
problem, making loads of errors in the minors and hitting
erratically. A farm-club executive called him “the worst
shortstop I’ve ever seen.” O’Connor tells the story of how he
went on to become the premier Yankee of his time and one of the
greatest ballplayers anyone of this generation has seen.  A biracial symbol of American possibility, Jeter did it by
“learning how to survive and occasionally thrive in a game
built around failure” -- and thriving despite a troubled
relationship with his neighbor on the left side of the infield,
 Alex Rodriguez .  Not that Jeter was a silent sufferer as Rodriguez gamboled
on and off the field. He was capable of “shooting A-Rod the
kind of stare armed troops often gave each other from opposite
sides of the 38th parallel,” O’Connor says.  Even so, the very presence of a ballplayer with what
O’Connor calls “a steady moral compass” is enough to make us
all cheer -- for Jeter if not always for the Yanks.  ‘Stan Musial’  Then there’s Stan Musial. Nobody doesn’t like Stan the Man,
and that’s part of the riddle at the heart of George Vecsey’s
“ Stan Musial: An American Life ” (Ballantine/ESPN Books, $26),
a heroic biography that asks why the Cardinal great never had a
cult of his own -- and was never celebrated as an emblem of the
culture.  “Almost as if by will, DiMaggio and (Ted) Williams became
distant towering legends, the stormy Himalayas,” Vecsey writes,
“whereas Stan the Man endured as the weathered old
Appalachians, like the coal-laden hills behind his boyhood home
in Donora,  Pennsylvania .”  Musial was appreciated but not venerated. In his day he was
admired for his remarkable skills and his gentle human touch.
Now he is nearly forgotten except by old-timers who remember him
as a Dvorak of the diamond, an old master ready to be
rediscovered.  But with his trademark feet-parallel batting stance, Musial
left his mark on the game, and on  St. Louis , to this day one of
the great baseball towns. Armed with what Vecsey calls “his
spontaneous generosity of heart and wallet,” he was baseball’s
“happy face” -- a Happy Warrior, you might say, only unlike Al
Smith and Hubert Humphrey, who also were described that way,
Musial’s story is one of triumph. He was, in short, a winner.  “He exuded endless optimism, a one-man GI bill, grateful
to be working at his trade, which in his case was being one of
the greatest hitters the game has ever known,” Vecsey writes.
“And then, somehow, Stanley was obscured.” Vecsey’s book is a
reclamation job for a baseball career with much to claim.  ‘An Accidental Sportswriter’  Robert Lipsyte, like Vecsey, spent years as a sports
columnist at the  New York  Times. But he describes himself in the
title of his memoir as “ An Accidental Sportswriter ” (Ecco,
$25.99).  He began as a fat boy who knew almost nothing about sports.
He grew into a man who loved the Times more than sports and who
developed an antipathy to what he calls “Jock Culture.”  Lipsyte’s achievement -- much harder than it looks -- is to
have remained an outsider among insiders, a man envied for the
life he led yet troubled that he was wasting his life. I would
argue that a life spent around Gay Talese,  Mickey Mantle , Casey Stengel, Howard Cosell,  Billie Jean King  and  Muhammad Ali , whom
Lipsyte met while standing with the Beatles, is not a life
wasted.  All that time was invested -- and the dividend is a
sportswriter’s memoir different from all the rest.  (David M. Shribman is executive editor of the Pittsburgh
Post-Gazette. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
David M. Shribman at  dshribman@post-gazette.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 