-- 
Bank of America, JPMorgan Said to Near Foreclosure Deal With U.S., States

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-07-07T20:20:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/jpmorgan-bofa-among-banks-said-to-be-near-20-billion-foreclosure-accord.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and three other U.S. mortgage servicers are in advanced
talks to resolve state and federal claims over faulty
foreclosures, according to two people briefed on the matter.  Negotiators tentatively set a July 13 target for a
settlement, which may exceed $20 billion, the people said,
speaking on the condition of anonymity because the talks are
private. Some banks are briefing their boards on deal terms,
which would form state and federal funds to resolve claims and
provide relief to borrowers, they said. The target date may be
postponed as parties iron out details.  Attorneys general  and federal officials are negotiating
with the group of lenders -- also including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Ally Financial Inc. -- to resolve probes
into how banks treated borrowers during a surge in mortgage
defaults. A final agreement, setting standards for servicing
loans and processing foreclosures, may serve as a template for
claims against the rest of the industry.  The July 13 target corresponds with a separate deadline the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency set for banks to
submit plans for fixing deficiencies and compensating people
whose homes were improperly seized. If talks aren’t done by
then, the OCC may push back its date, the people said.  “We are trying to integrate our settlement with the OCC
action plan,” said Geoff Greenwood, spokesman for Iowa Attorney
General Tom Miller, without commenting on the July 13 date.
“The action plan does not involve us, but we’re trying to work
together.”  Miller is leading the negotiations on the states’ behalf.  Relief for Borrowers  The proposed accord would require banks to set up a fund
for states to resolve civil mortgage complaints as well as a
separate federal account that would require them to provide a
specified amount of mortgage relief to borrowers, two people
said. Banks could get credit toward their relief obligation if
they write down principal and modify loans in their portfolio,
one of the people said. The exact mechanism to determine and
award credits is still being discussed, the person said.  The New York Post sent bank stocks lower yesterday after
reporting that the settlement’s total value might reach $60
billion, citing unidentified people close to the discussions.
The Post corrected its report today, saying the amount might
reach $25 billion.  Stocks Rebound  Bank of America, which fell 2.4 percent yesterday, rose 18
cents, or 1.7 percent, to close at $10.92 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. JPMorgan, which declined by 1.2
percent yesterday, advanced 1.9 percent to $41.32. Wells Fargo,
which dropped 1.1 percent yesterday, added 1.9 percent today to
$28.66.  Spokesmen for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of
America, San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, Detroit-based Ally and
New York-based Citigroup and JPMorgan said they couldn’t
comment. A spokesman for the OCC didn’t return phone calls
seeking comment yesterday.  Attorneys general from all 50 states announced an
investigation last year following claims of faulty foreclosure
practices by banks. At a May 24 meeting, state legal officers
told the banks they will face an estimated $17 billion in claims
if the inquiries result in civil lawsuits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  