-- 
Justice Department Antitrust Chief Christine Varney Said to Join Cravath

-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-07-07T04:10:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/justice-department-antitrust-chief-christine-varney-said-to-join-cravath.html
Christine Varney , the top antitrust
official at the U.S. Justice Department, will leave her post
next month to work for Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, a person
familiar with the matter said.  Varney, 55, who has made her career in private practice and
government in  Washington , will work at the law firm’s New York
headquarters, the person said.  “I’ve let the attorney general know I will leave Aug. 5 to
return to private life and private practice,” Varney said
yesterday in a phone interview, declining to comment on which
firm she will join.  She said she plans some time off before taking her next
position.  Varney, appointed by President  Barack Obama  in January
2009, vowed to step up antitrust enforcement as she came into
the office in April of that year. One of her first moves was to
retract  Bush administration  guidelines on monopolization
policies, saying they “raised too many hurdles” to curbing
anticompetitive practices.  “It’s been two and a half years, we’ve built a fantastic
team and we have fulfilled President Obama’s commitment to
reinvigorating the antitrust laws,” said Varney, a commissioner
at the Federal Trade Commission from 1994 to 1997, appointed by
President  Bill Clinton . “It’s time to move on.”  Her replacement will selected by Attorney General Eric Holder and Obama, Varney said.  AT&T Review  Varney’s departure comes amid the division’s review of AT&T
Inc.’s proposed $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc., which
would create a new market leader ahead of No. 1  Verizon
Wireless . A “strong team” will continue with the review,
Varney said.  “No qualms about that,” she said.  Cravath has worked on some of the biggest antitrust cases,
including the defense of International Business Machines Corp.
against a government antitrust lawsuit filed in 1969.  A spokeswoman for the firm declined to comment on Varney.  The firm, which was founded in 1819, is the 10th-biggest
adviser on mergers and acquisitions this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Last year, Cravath represented UAL Corp.,
parent of  United Airlines , in its merger with Continental
Airlines Inc. to create the world’ largest carrier, a deal
Varney approved.  Division Lawsuits  During her tenure, the division sued  American Express Co. (AXP) 
over restrictions on merchants, as well as H&R Block Inc. to
stop its purchase of the owner of TaxAct products and Blue Cross
Blue Shield of  Michigan  for allegedly entering agreements that
raised hospital prices.  The division’s threat of a lawsuit also caused Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. and IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to drop their bid
for NYSE Euronext.  “She’s been more active than the previous administration
and she has challenged a number of mergers the previous
administration would have let go,” said Bert Foer, president of
the American Antitrust Institute in Washington.  The Bush administration didn’t file a single monopolization
case and the number of antitrust investigations dropped to an
annual average of eight from an average of 12 during the Clinton
administration, according to the American Antitrust Institute’s
website.  Behavioral Remedies  Varney also promoted so-called behavioral remedies, under
which deals were approved with conditions and an internal
compliance monitor.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s $700 million purchase of ITA
Software Inc., a maker of travel information software, is the
most recent example.  After an eight-month review, the division on April 8 let
the deal go through after Google agreed to make travel data
available to search-engine rivals, set up firewalls to protect
client information and let the government review complaints of
unfair conduct.  The Google-ITA agreement allowed “the efficiencies of the
deal” while “attempting to protect the innovation platform,”
she said in an interview at the time.  Similar agreements included  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s purchase of  NBC
Universal  in January and Ticketmaster Entertainment Inc.’s
merger with Live Nation Inc. in January 2010. Comcast had to
follow safeguards to keep the largest U.S. cable company from
restricting online video content and Ticketmaster was required
to license its software to AEG Live, its largest customer.  ‘False Dichotomy’  “When you look at a merger, sometimes there’s a false
dichotomy: either block it or let it go,” Varney said in the
interview. “Complex transactions require complex solutions.”  Foer said there could be shortcomings to taking such a
regulatory approach.  “Having a few attorneys from the  Justice Department 
setting up with companies that have signed a consent order does
not seem to be the best way to make public policy,” Foer said.  Varney’s enforcement actions in the health-care market were
important for consumers, according to  David Balto , a Washington-
based attorney who has represented consumer groups.  “We finally had a healthcare cop on the beat,” Balto
said. “She challenged mergers and anticompetitive conduct and
that was crucial to trying to control healthcare costs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  