-- 
Kan Apologies for Former Minister’s Remark to Governor of Tsunami-Hit Area

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-07-06T04:32:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/kan-apologizes-for-former-minister-reiterates-intention-to-remain-for-now.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
apologized for the actions of a Cabinet minister who quit
yesterday, and reiterated his intention to achieve his
legislative goals before fulfilling a pledge to step down.  Speaking today in parliament, Kan said he was “very
sorry” for comments by Ryu Matsumoto who quit a week into his
job as reconstruction minister after offending the governor of a
region devastated by the March tsunami.  “I apologize to victims of the disaster for former
minister Matsumoto’s unpleasant remarks,” Kan said. “I’m the
one who appointed him, so I bear responsibility for that.”  While opposition lawmakers press Kan to quit, he gave no
indication that he would speed up his plan to step down amid
polls showing 70 percent want him to do so by the end of August.
Kan reiterated his intention to pass three pieces of legislation
aimed at rebuilding from the March earthquake and tsunami that
caused the worst nuclear accident in a quarter-century.  “I’ll work with all my might on what must be done as long
as I’m in office,” he said. “I haven’t used the word
‘‘resign’’ about myself. I’ve said I’ll pass my responsibilities
on to a younger generation once certain progress is made.”  Matsumoto on July 3 rebuked Miyagi Governor Yoshihiro Murai
for arriving late to a meeting, then told him that without a
consensus in the prefecture for rebuilding from the disaster,
“we won’t do anything.” Matsumoto told the assembled press not
to report the exchange, video of which was posted on the
Internet.  Legislative Agenda  The controversy may hurt Kan’s chances of carrying out his
agenda. The government yesterday unveiled a 2 trillion yen ($25
billion) recovery stimulus plan, half the size of an initial
package approved in May. Kan wants the Diet to approve the
package, as well as authorize the sale of 44.3 trillion yen in
 government bonds  needed to fund this year’s record budget, and
enact a renewal energy bill.  “The prime minister’s desire to stay on as long as
possible is delaying reconstruction efforts,” Nobuteru Ishihara, the No. 2 official in the main opposition  Liberal
Democratic Party , said during today’s parliamentary session.
“The Kan cabinet has lost its coherence.”  Kan’s approval rating dropped to 19 percent from 24 percent
last month, the Mainichi newspaper  reported  on July 4. About 44
percent of respondents said he should resign immediately and 27
percent said he should do so next month. The paper surveyed
1,129 voters on July 2 and 3 and didn’t provide a margin of
error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  