-- 
Kenmare Falls Most in 9 Months in London on Mozambique Mining Law Changes

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-07-06T16:25:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/kenmare-falls-most-in-9-months-in-london-on-mozambique-mining-law-changes.html
Kenmare Resources Plc (KMR) , a Dublin-based
minerals producer operating in  Mozambique , slumped the most in
almost nine months in London trading after the southeast African
country said it planned to revise its mining law.  Kenmare dropped 8.1 percent to 55 pence, the biggest
decline since Oct. 8, giving it a market value of 1.3 billion
pounds ($2.1 billion). Officials at the company, which owns the
Moma titanium mine on Mozambique’s northeast coast, weren’t
available for comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Mozambique plans to revise its mining law, seeking to give
the state a share of projects in “strategic sectors” such as
coal, Mineral Resources Minister Esperanca Bias said today. It’s
among African nations looking to reap bigger gains from their
commodity wealth as global prices for raw materials climb.  “Kenmare is one of the only significant mining operations
currently operating in Mozambique so I’m sure they will be
having conversations, but we wouldn’t be worried about license-
revoke or loss of license,” Jeremy Dibb, a Canaccord Genuity
Ltd. analyst in  London , said today by phone. “Any uncertainty
is likely to produce a strong reaction” in the shares.  Future Impact  Any change to the law isn’t expected to apply to Kenmare’s
current operations and is more likely to affect projects that
are yet to start production, Dibb said. Kenmare’s planned
expansion, due in about 2015 or 2016, may be subject to any
change to the fiscal regime, he said.  Mozambique has begun meeting with license holders and other
parties on its plans, Bias said at an industry conference today
in the country’s capital, Maputo. Investors who sell licenses or
concessions may need to pay tax on the gains, she said.  “Mozambique has always had a particularly favorable tax
regime when it comes to encouraging foreign investment,” said
Dibb, who has a “buy” rating on Kenmare. “It’s natural to see
that as commodity revenue grows within the country, they would
move to something more in line with international standards.”  In March,  Zimbabwe  published regulations to take a 51
percent stake in foreign-operated mines. A month later, Namibia
said it endorsed plans to issue all mineral exploration permits
to the state-owned mining company, while in Tanzania, the
national planning commission has urged the government to
consider a so-called super tax on mines.  Other mineral producers such as Vale SA are digging mines
in Mozambique, and Anglo American Plc is seeking coal projects
there. Rio Tinto Group, the world’s second-largest miner, may
add 25 million metric tons of Mozambique coal to its annual
output after buying Riversdale Mining Ltd. this year.  Rio advanced 0.4 percent to 4,493.5 pence in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  