-- 
Kenya’s One-Year Borrowing Costs Fall From Record as Bank Gets Fewer Bids

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-07-06T14:31:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/kenya-s-one-year-borrowing-costs-fall-from-record-as-bank-gets-fewer-bids.html
Kenya ’s one-year borrowing costs
fell from a record high at an auction as the central bank
received fewer bids for the debt than the amount offered.  The yield on the 364-day debt retreated to 10.22
percent, the Nairobi-based Central Bank of Kenya said in an
e-mailed statement today. It reached 10.249 percent at the
previous sale, the highest since the bills were first
issued in August 2009. The bank, which offered 5 billion
shillings ($56 million) of the debt, received 2.65 billion
shillings of bids and accepted 1.2 billion shillings.  The Kenyan government’s borrowing costs surged to a
more than nine-year high on some maturities as inflation
accelerated to the strongest in more than two years and the
shilling weakened to a 17-year low. The central bank
increased the overnight lending rate to 8 percent from 6.25
percent to rein in price growth and curb speculation in the
shilling, it said on June 29.  “Short-term  interest rates  have been falling in
recent auctions, a situation likely to be seen with this
security, as central bank tightening policy drains
liquidity in the market and its preference for lower yields
remaining a key determinant to investors,” Fred Moturi, a
fixed-income dealer at Nairobi-based Sterling Investment
Bank Ltd., said by phone before the auction results were
released.  The central bank also blocked the use of funds
borrowed from the overnight window to trade in the foreign-
exchange market. The shilling has strengthened 2.6 percent
since the measures were announced.  Inflation, Spending  Inflation is expected to advance further as dry
weather in East Africa’s biggest economy curbs agricultural
production, central bank Governor Njuguna Ndung’u said on
June 6.  Kenya will boost spending by 15 percent to 1.15
trillion shillings in the year through June 2012,
increasing spending on roads and energy, Finance Minister
 Uhuru Kenyatta  said in his budget speech on June 8. The
deficit will widen to 7.4 percent of gross domestic
product. Domestic borrowing is targeted at 119.5 billion
shillings in the next financial year, down from 125 billion
shillings this year.  The government faces “huge demand” for additional
spending to fund implementation of a constitution enacted
in August, and to help cope with drought in an economy that
is about 25 percent reliant on agricultural production, the
 finance ministry  said in its March 23 budget policy
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  