-- 
Kinetic Concepts Said to Be in Talks on Leveraged Buyout

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-07-06T20:52:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/kinetic-concepts-said-to-be-in-lbo-talks-that-may-value-it-at-5-billion.html
Kinetic Concepts Inc. (KCI) , a maker of
wound-care products and hospital beds, is in exclusive talks to
go private in a leveraged buyout, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  Kinetic is discussing a sale with a group of at least two
private-equity firms that may value the company at more than $5
billion excluding debt, said two of the people, who declined to
be identified because the situation is private.  Blackstone Group
LP (BX)  is looking at the company, one person said. Kinetic’s market
value was $4.3 billion as of yesterday’s close. The transaction
has become more difficult to pull off in recent weeks because of
tightening debt markets, the people said.  The shares jumped 13 percent to $66.20 today in  New York 
Stock Exchange trading. Private-equity firms may be attracted to
Kinetic’s steady cash flow and potential to restructure the
business by divesting its hospital bed unit, according to
Spencer Nam, a Boston-based analyst at Madison Williams & Co.
who has a $70 share-price forecast for Kinetic.  “They do have a lot of fat they can cut out,” Nam said.
Going private would allow the company to restructure without
pressure from public investors, he said. He estimates a buyout
would require $3.5 billion to $4 billion in debt financing,
posing a potential hurdle to completing a deal.  A takeover of Kinetic may surpass Del Monte Foods Co. as
the biggest private-equity buyout since the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008 prompted banks to shun financing
for leveraged transactions. A group led by KKR & Co. agreed to
buy  Del Monte  for about $4 billion, plus $1.3 billion in debt,
in November 2010.  Kevin Belgrade, a spokesman for San Antonio-based Kinetic,
declined to comment. Talks could still break down and there is
no guarantee a deal will be reached. The Wall Street Journal
reported earlier today that Blackstone is in talks with Kinetic.  Kinetic Shares  Since September 2008, three of the 10 biggest leveraged
buyouts have involved health-care companies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Yesterday Immucor Inc., the leading maker
of tests to screen blood before transfusions, announced an
agreement to sell itself to TPG Capital for $1.97 billion.  Investor concerns about a slowing U.S. economy and  Greece ’s
debt have led to declines in U.S. leveraged loan issuance,
making it more difficult for private-equity firms to execute
buyouts. While offerings this year are the most since 2007,
second-quarter loan sales fell to $116.4 billion from $141.2
billion in the three-month period ended March 31, according to
Standard & Poor’s Leveraged Commentary and Data.  Kinetic had gained 40 percent this year before today as the
company increased sales for its products using vacuums and skin
grafts to treat wounds. While the company leads the global
market for negative-pressure therapy using vacuums to aid
healing, Kinetic has lost ground to lower-priced competitors,
said Michael Matson, a Mizuho Securities analyst in New York, in
a June 16 note to clients.  New Products  To regain business, Kinetic has introduced new products
such as the disposable wound-care system V.A.C.Via, and expanded
into new geographic areas including Japan and  Brazil , Tao Levy,
an analyst with  Collins Stewart  in New York, said in a telephone
interview today. That could lead to annual revenue growth of as
much as 7 percent over time, up from an estimated 3 percent
growth in revenue this year, he said.  Investors had yet to embrace the strategy, leaving
Kinetic’s stock to trade at about a 30 percent discount to peers
before today’s jump, Levy said. Kinetic traded at about 12 times
estimated 2011 earnings, compared with about 17 times for
companies such as CareFusion Corp. and C.R. Bard Inc.  “There were some challenges that could potentially be
overcome easily, but the markets weren’t giving them credit,”
Levy said. “You’ve got a lot of these companies getting larger
and seeing their growth profile slow down, but yet they generate
a substantial amount of cash.”  Higher Forecast  Chief Executive Officer Catherine Burzik raised Kinetic’s
full-year earnings forecast in April. Profit for 2011 will rise
to $4.96 to $5.08 a share, Kinetic said in a statement.  The company, founded in 1976 by emergency-room physician
 Jim Leininger , generated $1.41 billion, or 70 percent of its
revenue, from negative-pressure devices last year. Tissue-
regeneration products that use skin grafts in hernia and breast
reconstruction surgeries rose to $341.4 million, while sales of
beds and other hospital equipment fell to $270.2 million.  Kinetic holds about 81 percent of the worldwide market for
negative-pressure products, followed by London-based Smith &
Nephew Plc, with about 5 percent, said Matson, the Mizuho
analyst. The two companies have been battling over patents for
the technology, with Kinetic winning lawsuits in the U.S. and
U.K. in the last two years.  Smith & Nephew gained as much as 4.1 percent today on
investor speculation that Kinetic’s competitors may also become
takeover targets. Medical products companies are also attractive
to drugmakers that are looking to stem revenue losses from
expiring patents on their medicines, according to Suraj Kalia,
an analyst with Rodman & Renshaw in New York.  “It fits perfectly for a number of pharmaceutical companies
with drying pipelines,” Kalia said.  Medical Deals  There were 540 announced acquisitions of medical products
and equipment companies in the last 5 years through yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The average premium for
a takeover was 51 percent. The largest was Johnson & Johnson’s
$21.3 billion purchase of Synthes Inc., announced in April.  Private-equity firms haven’t been able to pull off the same
kind of multibillion-dollar deals they brokered before the
credit crisis took hold. Disk-drive maker Seagate Technology Plc
ended talks to be taken private for about $7.55 billion in
November last year after talks with TPG Capital collapsed, a
person with knowledge of the matter said at the time. A takeover
of Fidelity National Financial Inc. met a similar fate earlier
in 2010 when the company ended talks with a private-equity group
that had offered $15 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 