-- 
King Diverges From Europe as BOE Holds Rates

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-07T11:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/king-diverges-further-from-europe-as-boe-set-to-maintain-record-low-rate.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King ’s monetary policy diverged further from the rest of Europe
today as officials kept record-low interest rates to aid the
recovery and guard against threats from the Greek crisis.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee held the
benchmark rate at 0.5 percent, as forecast by all 51 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. The  European Central Bank  will raise
interest rates for the second time this year at 1:45 p.m. in
 Frankfurt , according to a separate survey.  With companies such as  Bombardier Inc. (BOMB)  cutting jobs and
retailers  Thorntons Plc (THT)  and  Carpetright Plc (CPR)  shutting stores,
King is persisting in his tolerance of soaring inflation to aid
the economic recovery. He defended his stance on June 28, saying
the bank can hold off raising rates if there is a risk of
“undesirable volatility in output” and also warned of threats
to the U.K. from the debt crisis in the euro area.  “The pressure on the bank to raise  interest rates  has
ebbed away,”  Peter Dixon , an economist at Commerzbank AG in
London, said before the announcement. “We see a rate hike in
November, but if the data continues to come in weak over the
coming months, that’s going to raise the likelihood that they
don’t act until early 2012.”  The Bank of England also held its bond-purchase program at
200 billion pounds ($320 billion), a move predicted by all 32
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The ECB’s rate increase will lift its benchmark to 1.5
percent. Sweden raised its benchmark repurchase rate to 2
percent on July 5, the seventh increase in a year. Beyond
Europe, the People’s Bank of  China  raised key rates for the
third time this year yesterday.  Interest-Rate Bets  While U.K. inflation has accelerated to 4.5 percent, more
than twice the central bank’s target, investors have pushed back
expectations for the next Bank of  England  rate increase to
beyond May 2012, according to forward contracts on the sterling
overnight interbank average. A month ago, they were betting on a
February increase.  The pound has dropped against all 16 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg in the past three months. It was at $1.5982 shortly
before the Bank of England announcement, down 0.1 percent from
yesterday. Bonds fell, with the yield on the 10-year gilt up 2
basis points to 3.26 percent.  Economic Outlook  While the economy grew 0.5 percent in the first quarter, it
shrank by that amount in the previous three months. Markit
Economics said its surveys of manufacturing and services point
to gross-domestic-product growth of 0.3 percent “at best” in
the second quarter.  Data today showed factory production rose 1.8 percent in
May, the fastest pace in more than a year, marking a rebound
from the impact of an extra public holiday in April and the
Japanese earthquake.  Policy makers said in the minutes of their June meeting
that the current weakness of demand growth is “likely to
persist for longer than previously thought,” with some raising
the possibility that further bond purchases may be needed.  In addition,  Europe ’s debt crisis “highlighted the
potential for further adverse shocks,” the minutes said.  Retail sales fell 1.4 percent in May as consumers grappled
with faster inflation, the biggest fiscal tightening since World
War II and signs the labor market is coming under pressure.
Bombardier, the world’s biggest trainmaker, said this week it
will eliminate more than 1,400 jobs at a plant in Derby,
England, after it lost a government contract.  “There’s no evidence that the consumer is getting any
better,” said David Tinsley, an economist at National Australia
Bank in London and a former central bank official. “The bank
isn’t coming under any pressure for an increase.”  Inflation Expectations  The MPC split three ways on policy last month after the
rate of price growth convinced Chief Economist Spencer Dale and
policy maker  Martin Weale  to continue a push for a quarter-point
rate increase.  Adam Posen  called for more bond purchases.
Minutes of today’s decision will be published July 20.  Price pressures have been fuelled by the pound’s drop of
about 25 percent on a trade-weighted basis since the start of
2007, a sales-tax increase and rising commodity costs. Britons’
inflation expectations for the coming year jumped to 3.9 percent
in June, the highest since 2008, according to a YouGov Plc poll
for Citigroup Inc., raising the risk that faster price gains get
entrenched.  Deputy Governor Paul Tucker said June 28 that he is “one
of those who from the back end of last year has worried about
the possibility of an upward drift in inflation expectations.”
He also said he has a “high threshold” on the need for more
stimulus.  While growth in take-home pay accelerated to 3.3 percent in
the second quarter, Vocalink Ltd. said today, it remains below
the rate of inflation.  “The Bank of England appears to be winning the propaganda
battle on inflation,” Commerzbank’s Dixon said. “The question
remains whether it’s going to win the war.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  