-- 
Kotak Securities Says India Equity Valuations ‘Reasonable’

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-07-06T09:38:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/kotak-securities-says-india-equity-valuations-reasonable-.html
D. Kannan, managing director of Kotak
Securities Ltd. in Mumbai, comments on the outlook for Indian
equities. He made the comments in a report today.  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange fell
less than 0.1 percent to 5,629.90 at 2:55 p.m. local time. The
gauge rallied 5 percent in the two-week period ended July 3.  On market outlook:  “We feel that markets may remain side-ways till the time
concerns coming from global markets ease off or commodity prices
and inflation cool down. However, based on longer term,
valuations have already corrected to reasonable levels.  ‘‘Markets were fairly volatile in June owing to lower-than-
expected industrial production growth, stubbornly high inflation
and negative global cues from the U.S. and  Europe . Fall in crude
oil and initial signals of reforms through hike in fuel prices
in  India  provided some support to the markets late in the
month.’’  On government reforms:  ‘‘We have seen initial signs of reforms and on the other
hand, commodity prices have also moderated, though marginally.
Going forward, we expect government to further the reforms
process especially in the upcoming monsoon session which, we
believe, will be positive for the markets.’’  On the monsoon rainfall:  ‘‘Monsoons are expected to be only marginally below long
term average and the weakness in the global economy may keep
commodity prices subdued.’’  Rains in the monsoon season, the main source of irrigation
for the nation’s 235 million farmers, may be 95 percent of the
50-year average, the weather office said June 21. Showers would
be 98 percent of the average, the office said in April.  On inflation,  interest rates :  ‘‘Though crude oil has moderated slightly from highs, the
hike in diesel, liquefied petroleum gas and kerosene prices may
keep inflation high in the near term. We expect the  Reserve Bank 
to continue with the policy-tightening measures in its next
policy meeting in July.  ‘‘Though in the near term, inflation and interest rates are
likely to remain high, but any correction due to adverse global
cues or hike in interest rates should be used to buy
attractively valued stocks.’’  Sector recommendations:  ‘‘We remain selectively positive on stocks in sectors like
banking,  information technology , capital goods, infrastructure,
fast moving  consumer goods , media and logistics. We have a
cautious view on automobiles, metals and cement.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  