-- 
Moulin Rouge Star, Neil Diamond, Outdoor Mozart: London Weekend

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i   a n d   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 
2011-07-06T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/neil-diamond-lautrec-s-dancer-summer-mozart-sloane-soup-london-weekend.html
The classic winter comfort food
 Chicken Soup With Barley  is being served in the middle of a
steamy summer at Sloane Square’s Royal Court Theatre.  “Chicken Soup” is Arnold Wesker’s play about a 1930s East
End mom who hopes to convert her family to the socialist cause.
She cheerily makes tea for comrades in her tatty, wallpapered
home, and prods her lethargic husband and two children to lash
out at capitalism.  As the decades go by, the socialist ideals wither away,
though the kettle still hisses in the Kahn household.  The play, which was first performed at the Royal Court in
1958, is directed by the theater’s boss Dominic Cooke. His last
staging won an Olivier award (“Clybourne Park,” Bruce Norris’s 
sharp take on race and upward mobility).  Information:  http://www.royalcourttheatre.com  or
+44-207-565-5000.  Sloane Rangers can find more refined fare in the
restaurants and crowded bars around the  Royal Court . If you
fancy somewhere removed from the King’s Road crowds, walk back a
block to Geales, a fish-and-chip shop whose menu features
tempura soft-shell crab and lobster spaghetti as well as cod and
fries. The location at Chelsea Green is charming. Information:
 http://bit.ly/fu9zP9  and +-44-20-7965-0555.  Saturday  Toulouse-Lautrec’s favorite poster girl had a sad life off
the stage, as a  Courtauld Gallery  exhibition demonstrates.  Jane Avril, the curly-haired dancer flinging her limbs in
his images, was the abused daughter of a courtesan. Diagnosed
with hysteria, she was treated in a hospital before becoming a
star at the Moulin Rouge and a friend of the artist.  Jane comes to life in an exquisite two-room show. First,
you see Toulouse-Lautrec’s posters, sketches, and backstage
lonesome portraits of her. Then you view photographs of the real
woman -- more attractive than in the posters -- and the hospital
register bearing the name she was given at birth.  “Toulouse-Lautrec and Jane Avril: Beyond the Moulin
Rouge” is at the Courtauld Gallery through Sept. 18.
Information:  http://www.courtauld.ac.uk  or +44-20-7872-0220.  Saturday Night  Rock fans face a stark choice this evening. Lovers of the
mainstream may be heading to hear  Neil Diamond  at the 02. Those
who prefer the alternative and adventurous will be checking out
the  1-2-3-4 Festival  in Shoreditch Park.  Diamond’s London shows come at the end of a tour that
started at Auckland in February, with an emphasis on hits such
as “Sweet Caroline” and “Cracklin’ Rosie.”  Those taking part in the Shoreditch event include veterans
such as Lydia Lunch and  Damo Suzuki , the former singer in German
group  Can . Also playing are newer garage and punk acts such as
Black Lips, Sex Beet and Fair Ohs.  O2, Peninsula Sq., SE10 0DX. Information: +44-20-8463-2000,
 http://www.theo2.co.uk .  Information about 1-2-3-4:  http://the1234shoreditch.com/   The William IV is a stylish pub-restaurant a short walk
from Shoreditch Park. The menu is British, featuring favorites
such as bangers and mash with onion gravy, and knickerbocker
glory. Information:  http://bit.ly/mvgfDD  and +44-20-3119-3011.  Sunday  Airs from “Le Nozze di Figaro” will float amid the trees
of Holland Park on Sunday afternoon. Matthew Hargreaves is
Figaro in Mozart’s amorous comedy, which could have been created
for the open-air setting.  Director Liam Steel, fresh from the  English Touring Opera ,
gives the work an Edwardian spin, with household staff adding a
balletic touch as they whirl around the singers. Matthew Willis
conducts the  City of London Sinfonia .  Opera Holland Park,  London  W8 6LU. Information:
 http://www.rbkc.gov.uk/operahollandpark  or +44-300-999-1000  (Farah Nayeri and Mark Beech write for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
their own.)  To contact the writers on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at 
 Farahn@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/# !/Mark_Beech  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 