-- 
Nevada’s Top Court Upholds Republican Nomination Process for Senate Seat

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-06T14:31:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/nevada-supreme-court-upholds-ruling-on-heller-congress-replacement-vote.html
The  Nevada   Supreme Court  upheld a
ruling allowing state Republicans to nominate one candidate to
represent the party in a special election to fill the  House of
Representatives  seat vacated by U.S. Senator Dean Heller.  In May, a lower court judge ruled in favor of the Nevada
Republican Party and barred Secretary of State Ross Miller, a
Democrat, from declaring a “free-for-all” election in which
candidates could nominate themselves. The Supreme Court agreed
and ruled in a 6-1 decision that although the state law is
“ambiguous” deferring to Miller was not appropriate in this
case.  “Reasonable policy arguments exist on both sides of the
question of how a special election ballot should be populated,”
the court said. “The policy choice is for the legislature, not
the court. But in assessing the meaning of the election statutes
involved in this appeal, we look at existing law and historical
practice, which the legislature did not disavow.”  Nevada Governor Brian Sandoval appointed Heller in April to
succeed fellow Republican  John Ensign  in the  U.S. Senate .
Ensign, the subject of a Senate ethics inquiry stemming from an
extramarital affair, resigned in May. A special election is
scheduled for Sept. 13 for the district that encompasses almost
the entire state outside of Las Vegas and that city’s suburbs.  Central Committees  Nevada has equated a vacancy in office with a vacancy in a
major party nomination since at least 1954 and have historically
turned to the major political parties’ central committees to
designate their candidates of choice, the Supreme Court panel
said in its ruling.  If legislation enacted in 2003 to fill vacancies in the
House in the wake of the Sept. 11, 2001 terrorist attacks meant
to abandon long-held practices, it would have done so
“explicitly,” the court said.  “Particularly given that the self-nominating ‘free for
all” or “ballot royale” approach is unusual and has not been
adopted federally,” the court said.  Miller called the court’s ruling “well-reasoned.”  `Well-Reasoned'  “There has been much discussion about the lack of
legislative history and the perceived ambiguity in the law that
led to my interpretation clarifying how to conduct a special
election in these circumstances,” Miller said in a statement
posted to his Web site yesterday. “I fully respect the Supreme
Court’s decision and will conduct the special election
accordingly.”  The decision sets the stage for a September race between
Republican Mark Amodei, a former state senator, and Democratic
State Treasurer Kate Marshall, the  Las Vegas  Sun reported
yesterday.  The case is Nevada State Democratic Party et al v. Nevada
Republican Party et al, No. 58404, Supreme Court of the State of
Nevada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 