-- 
New York Selects JPMorgan, Vanguard for College Savings Plans

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-07-06T18:11:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/new-york-selects-jpmorgan-vanguard-for-college-savings-plans.html
New York  picked  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
as investment manager of its college savings plan sold through
advisers, keeping Vanguard Group Inc. to run investments in its
direct-sold accounts.  The state had put the programs, known as 529 plans, out for
bids. The current direct-sold contract is with Vanguard and
Upromise Investments, a unit of student-lender  SLM Corp. (SLM) 
Upromise will be the administrator on both types of plans, the
New York State Comptroller’s Office said today. The contracts
run for seven years.  “Family budgets are getting tighter, but families still
need to save for college,” New York State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli said in a statement. “The 529 Program is a low-cost,
easy-to-use program that helps make college more accessible to
New Yorkers.”  The 529 plans, named after a section of the U.S. tax code,
are set up by states. Investment earnings generally are free of
state and federal taxes when used to pay for eligible education
expenses. New York’s 529 College Savings Program has more than
$12 billion invested in more than 680,000 accounts, according to
the statement. Its direct-sold plan is the largest in the U.S.  Savers in New York’s direct-sold plan can contribute on
behalf of a beneficiary up to $375,000, according to the state’s
 website .  Tuition and Fees  Tuition and fees for in-state students at public four-year
institutions averaged $7,605 for the 2010-2011 school year,
according to the  College Board , a New York-based nonprofit. At
private nonprofit four-year colleges and universities, they
averaged $27,293.  “The Advisor Plan offers individuals a disciplined way to
integrate savings for college into a comprehensive financial
plan,” said George Gatch, chief executive officer of J.P.
Morgan Investment Management Americas. The New York-based firm’s
relationships with the adviser community and range of investment
products will position it to help New Yorkers save, Gatch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 