-- 
News of the World’s Lost Advertisements Are Mirror’s Gain as Shares Climb

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-06T15:56:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/news-of-the-world-s-lost-advertisements-are-mirror-s-gain-as-shares-climb.html
News Corp.’s News of the World, the
tabloid accused of hacking into a murder victim’s voicemail, is
losing advertisers that may put  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI)  in a position
to gain marketing dollars. Trinity Mirror shares surged the most
in a year.  Trinity, which publishes Britain’s Daily Mirror newspaper,
may as much as double annual ad revenue for its Sunday paper as
companies avoid associating their brands with Rupert Murdoch’s
News of the World, said Alex De Groote, an analyst at Panmure
Gordon & Co. The Sunday Mirror has a circulation of about 1.09
million per issue while the News of the World has an average of
2.66 million, according to media researcher ABC.  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Vauxhall brand and  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  became the latest advertisers to pull ads off the News
of the World, following  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s exit yesterday. The
Sunday newspaper, already accused of hacking into the phones of
celebrities and politicians, now faces allegations that a
private detective deleted messages from the voicemail of
murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler in 2002.  “Ford is a bellwether advertiser,” said London-based De
Groote, who advises investors to buy Trinity shares and doesn’t
own any. “If they go, others may follow suit.” Advertisers
“don’t want a channel that is seen as tarnished.”  He estimates that the News of the World has annual ad sales
of about 40 million pounds ($64 million). The Sunday Mirror
could increase its ad revenue to 30 million pounds from a range
of 15 million pounds to 20 million pounds currently, he said.  Shares Jump  Trinity rose 7 pence, or 17 percent, to 42.25 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close of trading in  London , its biggest jump since
July 2010, giving the company a market value of 126.9 million
pounds. The stock declined 39 percent this year before today.  News Corp. (NWSA) , whose brands include the Fox TV networks and
film studios, the Wall Street Journal newspaper and book
publisher HarperCollins, dropped 85 cents, or 4.7 percent, to
$17.28 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, the biggest fall since
February.  Trinity, based in London, reported 761.5 million pounds in
revenue last year.  News International is in “dialogue with advertisers about
the steps we have been taking and those conversations will
continue,” News Corp. spokeswoman  Daisy Dunlop  said in an e-
mail. Nick Fullagar, a spokesman for Trinity Mirror, didn’t
return a call seeking comment.  Shares Jump  British media published further allegations today that the
tabloid tapped the voicemails of murder victims and their
families and paid police officers for stories.  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron today promised at least
one inquiry into phone-hacking at the News of the World
newspaper and failures by the police to investigate it.  Opening a debate into phone-hacking in Parliament today,
Labour lawmaker  Chris Bryant  cited a 2006  report  by the
Information Commissioner that had identified illegal
transactions in private information the country’s newspapers.
The report identified 143 instances at the Sunday Mirror and 182
at the News of the World.  Lloyds, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender, said today it
pulled a planned advertisement for its Halifax unit. “This was
a tactical decision in the short term whilst we carefully
consider our longer-term position and its implications,” the
London-based company said in a statement.  Disappearing Money  While the two Sunday tabloids, which each cost 1 pound,
target similar audiences, not all of the lost marketing money
and customers will go to Trinity, analysts said.  “I don’t think Ford pulling an advert out of the News of
the World means Ford will place more advertisements inside of
the Sunday Mirror or whatever else,” said Doug McCabe, an
analyst at Enders Analysis Ltd. “It is perfectly plausible that
that money simply disappears for a period of time.”  Ford said yesterday that it will use “alternative media
within and outside News International,” the News Corp. U.K.
unit that also publishes the Sun, the London-based Times and
Sunday Times.  Vauxhall, the sister brand of GM’s Opel unit in  Europe ,
suspended ads placed with the News of the World and will
“reconsider its position pending the outcome of investigations
into allegations of phone hacking,” said spokesman Denis Chick.
The carmaker has no immediate plan to shift the spending to
another publication, he added.  Shrinking Readership  The readers may vanish, too, according to  George Brock ,
professor of journalism at City University of London.
Subscribers are disappearing across the board and a customer who
loses interest in their favorite publication might not choose a
new one, Brock said.  “Nowadays when readers leave a title, they don’t
necessarily go to another one,” Brock said. “They might just
leave the Sunday reading market altogether.”  Rebekah Brooks, chief executive officer of News
International, will remain in her position, News Corp. CEO
 Rupert Murdoch  said in a statement today.  “Recent allegations of phone hacking and making payments
to police with respect to the News of the World are deplorable
and unacceptable,” Murdoch said. “We are committed to
addressing these issues fully and have taken a number of
important steps to prevent them from happening again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 Athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  