-- 
Nigerian Senate Approves World Bank’s Managing Director for Cabinet Post

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-07-06T13:48:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/nigerian-senate-approves-world-bank-s-managing-director-for-cabinet-post.html
Nigeria’s Senate approved the return
of Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, a managing director at the  World Bank ,
to the Cabinet, five years after she was dismissed as head of
the country’s Economic Management Team.  Okonjo-Iweala’s nomination by President Goodluck Jonathan
was approved by a unanimous vote. Before the decision, she told
parliament that Africa’s top oil producer wasn’t doing enough to
boost investment, with recurrent expenditure soaking up 74
percent of the 2011 budget.  “We need the help of the legislature,” she told
lawmakers. Cutting expenditure “isn’t something the executive
branch can do alone.”  Nigeria’s Senate passed a 4.97 trillion-naira ($31.8
billion) budget for the 2011 fiscal year on March 16, 17 percent
more than what Jonathan had proposed in December. It later
agreed to scale back spending plans to 4.48 billion naira.  As finance minister of  Africa ’s largest oil producer
between 2003 and 2006, Okonjo-Iweala spearheaded talks that led
the Paris Club group of creditors to write off $18 billion in
debt. She was named finance minister of the year by the Banker
magazine in 2004 and by Euromoney in 2005. The Harvard
University-educated economist resigned from the Cabinet in
August 2006 following a demotion by former President Olusegun Obasanjo.  Cabinet Nominees  Jonathan, who is forming a new government after winning
April elections, will now assign her a portfolio. She is
expected to return to her previous post as finance minister with
additional powers to oversee the country’s economic management,
Vanguard reported on July 5, citing an unidentified security
official.  The president has so far appointed 14 ministers of a 34-
member Cabinet. Ex-Finance Minister Olusegun Aganga was also
approved for a ministerial post today.  Jonathan has pledged to invest in roads and railways and
reform the  petroleum industry , the mainstay of the economy, to
boost growth. His new government must also deal with growing
insecurity. While an armed insurgency in the oil-producing Niger
River delta remains subdued, parts of the north, including the
capital, Abuja, have seen a campaign of violence by the radical
Islamic sect, Boko Haram, which is inspired by  Afghanistan ’s
Taliban movement.  Nigeria’s economy, the third-largest on the continent after
 South Africa  and  Egypt , will probably grow 8 percent this year,
compared with 7.8 percent in 2010, according to the National
Bureau of Statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 