-- 
Obama Defends Economy Policy to Twitter Users Including Boehner

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   P e l h a m   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-07-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/obama-says-he-wishes-he-d-better-explained-recession.html
President  Barack Obama  fielded
questions yesterday from Americans across the U.S., including
House Speaker  John Boehner , as he defended his economic policies
a day before meeting with congressional leaders to seek a
compromise on the deficit and debt ceiling.  Responding to queries submitted via Twitter Inc., Obama
told one questioner that if he could do something over he would
have prepared Americans better for the slow pace of recovery by
the economy and housing markets.  “People may not have been prepared for how long this was
going to take,” Obama said during an event billed as a
“Twitter Town Hall,” after he was asked whether he had made
mistakes in handling the economy.  The president, seated in the East Room of the White House,
gave spoken answers to posts sent in Twitter’s 140-character-or-
less format.  Boehner sent a message asking: “After embarking on a
record spending binge that’s left us deeper in debt, where are
the jobs?”  “This is a slightly skewed question,” Obama responded,
saying he agrees with the Ohio Republican that “we have not
seen fast enough job growth relative to the need.” Obama said
his administration has backed tax cuts for small businesses and
other steps that have helped reverse job losses and fuel private
 job creation .  Hiring Veterans  Obama said he would consider tax credits for companies that
hire veterans, along with a marketing campaign to encourage
private companies to employ veterans.  The event, lasting more than an hour, marked an effort by
the administration to reach people beyond radio, television and
newspapers, extending to social networking and interactive media
sources.  The  White House  has 2.25 million Twitter followers. The
Twitter event follows earlier Obama town-hall-style formats with
Facebook and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube. Questions were moderated by
Jack Dorsey, the co-founder and executive chairman of Twitter
Inc.  Obama answered questions before today’s scheduled meeting
with congressional leaders to press for an agreement on cutting
the federal deficit and raising the government’s $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling.  Obama said the debt limit “is something we shouldn’t be
toying with.” A U.S. default could cause a downgrade in the
nation’s credit rating, an increase in  interest rates  and a
potential “spiral into a second recession, or worse,” Obama
said.  Debt Ceiling  “The debt ceiling should not be something that is used as
a gun against the heads of the American people” to protect tax
breaks for corporate jet owners and energy companies.  Obama declined to comment when asked whether he thinks the
Constitution’s  14th Amendment  gives the executive branch the
duty to honor U.S. obligations regardless of a congressional
debt ceiling.  To kick off the event, Obama used a laptop and typed out
his first message on Twitter, asking the online service’s users:
“In order to reduce the deficit, what costs would you cut and
what investments would you keep?”  A map tracked messages streaming in from Twitter users
around the country.  Beside jobs, the president answered questions on housing,
education, alternative energy, collective bargaining rights,
immigrant entrepreneurs, welfare, space exploration and tax
increases for the wealthy.  The government is scheduled to report last month’s U.S.
 unemployment rate  tomorrow, and economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News expect the Labor Department to report that employers added
100,000 workers in June, after a 54,000 increase in May.  The jobless rate is forecast to be unchanged at 9.1
percent.  Payroll increases of around 200,000 a month are needed for
a sustained decline in the unemployment rate, according to  Scott Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Pelham in  Washington  at 
 vpelham@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  