-- 
Obama Sets Meeting With Lawmakers to Urge Long-Term U.S. Deficit Solution

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-07-06T18:12:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/obama-sets-thursday-meeting-with-lawmakers-to-urge-long-term-debt-solution.html
President  Barack Obama  said he
opposes a deficit-cutting measure allowing for only a short-term
increase in the U.S. debt limit as he called a meeting tomorrow
with Republican and Democratic lawmakers to seek long-term fixes
in the government’s finances.  The president’s comments yesterday were the second time in
less than a week he has come to the podium to publicly push
lawmakers to secure a deal that addresses basic solutions to
deficit spending while averting a first-ever U.S. default on its
obligations.  The Obama administration and congressional leaders are
working to complete a deal on a long-term budget reduction
package by July 22. That would give Congress enough time to
craft legislation raising the $14.3 trillion debt limit before
Aug. 2, when the Treasury Department has said that its borrowing
authority expires. Republicans have signaled they could accept a
short-term package -- an outcome that would force Congress to
vote a second time on the debt ceiling before the 2012 elections
and that Obama would like to avoid.  “I don’t think the American people sent us here to avoid
tough problems,” Obama told reporters at the White House.
“That’s, in fact, what drives them nuts about Washington, when
both parties simply take the path of least resistance. And I
don’t want to do that here.”  ‘Serious Plan’  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said today that tomorrow’s meeting will be “an
opportunity to see if the president is finally willing to agree
on a serious plan to pay our bills without killing jobs in the
process.”  Republicans have insisted that increases in  tax revenue  be
off the table in any deal, saying that would hurt the economy.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
Republicans refused to compromise during talks with Vice
President  Joe Biden  because of their “arbitrary” pledge not to
raise taxes.  “Never mind that the deal is in the best interests of the
country and gives Republicans much of what they say they want,”
Reid said. “They walked away from the table.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said in a
statement that the president’s proposals for new sources of
revenue wouldn’t muster enough support to pass Congress.  ‘Fruitless’ Discussions  “I’m happy to discuss these issues at the White House, but
such discussions will be fruitless until the president
recognizes economic and legislative reality,” Boehner said.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , of  Virginia , told
reporters today that Republicans “will be glad to talk about”
closing some loopholes if Democrats agree to offsetting tax cuts
elsewhere.  Boehner and Obama met privately at the White House July 3
for talks on the deficit, Boehner spokesman  Brendan Buck 
confirmed in an e-mail today. Obama yesterday said he and his
team held “a series of discussions” over the Fourth of July
weekend that he said “made progress.”  The White House and Democrats have been intensifying a
showdown with Republicans over whether tax increases should be
part of a final agreement. While Obama didn’t go so far as to
say that he would veto a short-term measure, he said the
negotiations present “a unique opportunity to do something big
to tackle our deficit,” and repeated his calls for a “balanced
approach” to a solution that includes both spending cuts and
revenue increases.  No ‘Ultimatums’  “It’s my hope that everybody is going to leave their
ultimatums at the door, that we’ll all leave our political
rhetoric at the door, and that we’re going to do what’s best for
our economy and do what’s best for our people,” Obama said.
“This should not come down to the last second.”  The calendar may force another option. A more likely
outcome is a short-term debt ceiling increase coupled with
commensurate spending cuts that lawmakers agree to, buying them
time to complete work on a larger measure when they return from
their August recess, said Bill Hoagland, a former Republican
staff director of the Senate Budget Committee.  “I think it’s too late” for a long-term deal in the next
few weeks, Hoagland said.  Reid has scheduled a Senate vote for later this week to
demonstrate support in the Democratic-controlled chamber for
raising taxes on people who earn $1 million a year or more. His
resolution calls on those taxpayers to “make a more meaningful
contribution to the deficit-reduction effort.”  The Democrats and the White House stepped up their push for
tax increases when Obama, during a June 29 news conference,
accused Republicans of siding with corporate jet owners over
assistance for children and health care for the elderly.  Corporate Jets  In negotiations led by Biden that collapsed two weeks ago,
the White House had proposed $400 billion in revenue increases,
including ending tax breaks for corporate jets and for oil and
gas companies and phasing out deductions for taxpayers earning
more than $500,000 a year, according to participants, including
Maryland Democratic Representative  Chris Van Hollen .  Such a strategy gambles on Republicans dropping their
objections to tax increases at the risk of a backlash from tax
opponents, said Ed Lorenzen, a senior adviser at the Committee
for a Responsible Federal Budget, a bipartisan education and
policy center in  Washington  that examines fiscal matters.  “The dangerous part is that everyone seems to be hardening
their positions and ramping up their rhetoric,” Lorenzen said.
“What’s hard to know is whether this rhetoric is posturing to
satisfy the base or, more likely, both sides are really just
locking themselves in,” Lorenzen said.  There are few signs that the two sides have bridged their
differences since the Biden-led effort fell apart. Obama held
one meeting with McConnell on June 27, after which neither side
reported any advancement in resolving their differences.  “Over the July 4 weekend, my team and I had a series of
discussions with congressional leaders in both parties,” Obama
said yesterday. “We’ve made progress, and I believe that
greater progress is within sight, but I don’t want to fool
anybody -- we still have to work through some real
differences.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  