-- 
Obama’s Twitter Town Hall: Questions in 140 Characters or Less

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/obama-s-twitter-town-hall-he-ll-take-questions-in-140-characters-or-less.html
President  Barack Obama  will take
questions today in what White House officials are calling his
first Twitter town hall, complete with a “Tweetup.”  Users of the social networking service can post questions
for Obama before and during the event, which starts at 2 p.m.
Washington time. Questions should fit  Twitter’s  140-character
limit and include the hashtag  #askObama .  Promoted as a focus on jobs and the economy, the question-
and-answer session already has attracted posts on topics as
diverse as small-business incentives and tax rates, women
working in math and science, marijuana legalization, and  Libya .
Obama’s 2012  campaign Twitter account  encouraged followers to
submit questions.  So did Republican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus, who in a  Twitter posting  yesterday made clear what
issue he would focus on: “With 9.1% unemployment, what would
you want to know?” he asked, referring to the nation’s jobless
rate.  Representatives of San Francisco-based Twitter Inc. will
determine which questions to pose to the president, White House
director of digital strategy Macon Phillips and communications
director  Dan Pfeiffer  said during a conference call yesterday.  White House officials described the in-person audience for
the event in the White House’s East Room as a Tweetup -- an
informal meeting of people who use Twitter.  Mass Relevance , an Austin, Texas-based company, is working
with Twitter on aggregating and filtering questions.  Radian6 , a
Canada-based company acquired this year by San Francisco-based
Salesforce.com, will analyze Twitter posts and conversations
related to the event.  Twitter Moderator  Jack Dorsey, Twitter co-founder and executive chairman,
will be the moderator.  Dorsey, Obama and those following the event will be able to
see what topics and  trends  are driving the conversation in which
regions of the country and which individual questions are
generating the most interest, said Adam Sharp, manager of
government and political partnerships at Twitter.  That could trigger follow-up questions if there is a
significant response to the president’s answer on any one issue.  “If there’s any message that comes out of this for the
campaigns and the parties, it’s the opportunities it presents to
have real-time conversations with their constituents,” Sharp
said.  Pfeiffer said Americans increasingly are looking beyond
traditional news outlets to social networking and interactive
media sources to get information. “A growing percentage of
people are getting their information entirely through mobile
devices,” he said. The White House has 2.25 million Twitter
followers.  The event will be live-streamed via the  White House website 
or the website  askobama.twitter.com . Twitter users can monitor
the event by following  @townhall .  The Twitter event follows earlier Obama town-hall-style
formats with Facebook and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  