-- 
Million-Barrel Oil Tanker on Fire off Yemeni Coast After Attack by Pirates

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n   a n d   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-07-06T17:33:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/oil-tanker-is-ablaze-off-yemen-following-pirate-attack-vessel-owner-says.html
A tanker carrying about 1 million
barrels of  fuel oil  is on fire off the Yemeni coast after
pirates used a rocket-propelled grenade to attack the ship in a
maritime corridor handling about 20 percent of world trade.  The 274-meter (900-foot) Brillante Virtuoso was going to
 China  from Ukraine, said Andreas Louka, legal adviser to Suez
Fortune Investment Ltd., the owner. A rocket-propelled grenade
probably caused a fire in the ship’s accommodation block,
Central Mare Inc., the vessel’s manager, said in a later
statement distributed by MTI Network.  “Pirates go for targets of opportunity, and if they see a
ship and it’s clear they have a chance, they will go for it
regardless of size,” said Jakob Larsen, a maritime security
officer at the Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Baltic and International
Maritime Council, which represents the owners of about two-
thirds of the global fleet.  Pirates attacked a record number of ships worldwide in the
first quarter, taking 344 sailors hostage and killing seven,
data from the London-based International Maritime Bureau show.
Average ransom payments rose to $5.4 million last year, compared
with $150,000 in 2005, according to Louisville, Colorado-based
One Earth Future Foundation, a non-profit group.  Unarmed Guards  The ship is being towed by two tugs and there is no risk of
a spill, Louka said by phone from  Athens  today. The 26 Filipinos
were rescued from a life-raft by the USS Philippine Sea, a
guided-missile cruiser, the Combined Maritime Forces said in an
e-mail.  The Brillante Virtuoso was attacked overnight  London  time
as it approached the port of Aden to collect unarmed guards,
Louka said. The fire is in the accommodation block of the ship,
known as a suezmax and with a carrying capacity of 149,601
deadweight tons, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Suezmaxes are the biggest tankers that can navigate  Egypt ’s Suez
Canal while fully laden.  It would be the first attack on a suezmax in the region
since June 11, said Cyrus Mody, the London-based manager for the
IMB, whose Piracy Reporting Centre has monitored incidents since
1991. That incident was unsuccessful, he said. A total of 142
attacks were reported worldwide in the first quarter, the most
for the period since at least 1991.  If it were an attack by pirates and they started the fire,
it would be the first such incident, said Harrie Harrison, a
spokesman for European Union Naval Force, or EU Navfor. The
group has yet to confirm pirates were involved, he said.  Distress Call  The crew issued a distress call saying they were under
attack by pirates, the Combined Maritime Forces said in its
statement. When the Philippine Sea arrived at the Brillante
Virtuoso it found no pirates and rescued the crew, the CMF said.
The 25-nation maritime coalition patrols the  Gulf of Aden ,  Red
Sea , Somali Basin,  Arabian Sea  and  Persian Gulf .  As many as 25,000 ships sail through the Gulf of Aden a
year, Giles Noakes, head of security at the Baltic and
International Maritime Council, said in January. Including a
wider stretch of the  Indian Ocean  where the pirates also
operate, as many as 40,000 are at risk, he said.  EU Navfor estimates 20 percent of world  trade  passes
through the Gulf of Aden between Yemen and Somalia. Ships use it
to get to the Suez Canal, which connects the Mediterranean Sea
and Red Sea. It is the fastest crossing from the Atlantic Ocean
to the Indian Ocean, according to the  Suez Canal  Authority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net ;
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 anightingale@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  