-- 
Rice Futures May Help Tokyo Grain Exchange Break Even After Run of Losses

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 
2011-07-06T08:27:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/tokyo-grain-exchange-s-volume-may-quadruple-after-listing-of-rice-futures.html
Tokyo  Grain Exchange Inc., operator
of Japan’s largest agricultural commodity bourse, said trading
volume may quadruple after it lists rice futures, helping it
break even after three consecutive years of losses.  The bourse aims to boost volume to 40,000 lots a day on
average by March from 9,626 lots a day last month, President
Yoshiaki Watanabe said in an interview in Tokyo. Domestic rice
output is worth about 1.8 trillion yen ($22 billion) a year and
futures trading will begin by September after being suspended
for 72 years as part of a government program to support prices.  Average rice prices fell 11 percent to 12,807 yen per bag
(1 bag contains 60 kilograms) in May from a year earlier,
according to data from the  agriculture ministry . The exchange
had an operating loss of 773.7 million yen in the year ended
March 31 as trading volume plunged 25 percent on reduced
participation by local investors.  “We expect rice futures will attract money from individual
and corporate investors as the commodity is a very popular
product and its price is volatile,” said Katsushige Yamazaki,
general manager at Tokyo-based broker ACE Koeki Co.  The number of Japanese raw-material bourses has dropped to
three from seven in 2005, when the government tightened
regulations covering sales of riskier financial assets to
individuals, leading to a slump in retail futures trading.  The Tokyo Grain Exchange trades corn, soybeans, coffee, raw
sugar and so-called azuki beans. Its trading volume reached a
record of more than 26.5 million lots in the year ended March 31,
2004, compared with 3.3 million lots last year.  Reviving Trade  The ministry is reviving rice futures trade after seven
decades as it introduced an income-support program for rice
growers last year, replacing a price-control system that ensured
farm incomes. Without government price support, volatility could
increase the need for farmers and merchants to hedge.  The  Kansai Commodities Exchange , another agricultural
commodity bourse based in the western city of  Osaka , has also
been approved to list rice futures by Agriculture Minister
Michihiko Kano.  The Tokyo and Kansai exchanges will list yen-denominated
futures contracts, with deliverable grades including
“koshihikari,” a popular rice brand grown in Japan. Imported
rice is excluded from physical delivery at the exchanges as the
government maintains control over foreign purchases and sales.  As of June 1, the Tokyo Grain Exchange received intentions
to trade rice futures from 64 corporations, including 28
distributors, five food processors and two trading companies,
data from the bourse showed.  The ministry approved rice futures trade on a trial basis
for two years and may decide to halt trading if the market is
inactive or unused by hedgers, it said on July 1.  ‘Money Game’  The Central Union of Agricultural Co-Operatives,  Japan ’s
biggest farmers organization that controls about 60 percent of
domestic rice traded in the physical market, has said it won’t
participate in futures trading.  “The government has put rice, our nation’s staple, into a
speculative money game,” Chairman Mamoru Motegi said in a
statement on July 1.  A lack of participation from hedgers led to delisting of
commodity futures in Japan including broiler chicken, potato and
soybean meal. The Tokyo Grain Exchange will delist robusta
coffee futures and non-genetically modified soybean futures next
year on shrinking volumes, Watanabe said.  ‘Gloomy’ Future  “If rice-futures trading fails to expand, the future of
Japan’s commodity futures industry will be gloomy,” he said.  The shrinking volume led board members last year to decide
to transfer agricultural futures trading to the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange, the biggest raw-material bourse in Japan, after
integrating their trading systems in January.  “Talks with the Tokyo Commodity Exchange have not been
progressing as we need to launch the rice market,” Watanabe
said. The transfer may be reconsidered, depending on how active
rice trading becomes, he said.  Tocom trades gold, silver, platinum, palladium, rubber,
gasoline, kerosene, gas oil and crude oil. It represented 89
percent of the total trading volume of the three Japanese raw-
material bourses in the first half of this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at
   atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  