-- 
Morgan Stanley Sued by Allstate on Mortgage Claims

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-08-18T14:51:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/morgan-stanley-sued-by-allstate-over-mortgage-backed-securities.html
(Corrects spelling of “rescissionary” in sub-headline and
eighth paragraph of story published July 6.)  Morgan Stanley (MS)  was sued for fraud by
Allstate Insurance Co. over residential mortgage-backed
securities in which the insurer invested, according to a
complaint filed in  New York .  Allstate purchased more than $104 million in Morgan Stanley
residential mortgage-backed securities in six offerings between
2005 and 2007, based on registration statements, prospectuses
and other documents, as well as the “central role” that Morgan
Stanley played in creating and selling the securities, it said
in the suit filed yesterday in New York state  Supreme Court .  Morgan Stanley told Allstate it had conducted due diligence
on the companies that originated the mortgages before turning
them into securities, and assured the Northbrook, Illinois-based
insurer that the loans conformed with “conservative”
underwriting standards and that the appraisals of the mortgage
properties were accurate, the lawsuit says.  “As Allstate and the world would only later discover, the
originators whose loans collateralized the Morgan Stanley RMBS
purchased by Allstate were among the worst of the worst culprits
in the subprime lending industry,” Allstate said in the suit.
“Morgan Stanley knew or recklessly disregarded that those
lenders were issuing high-risk loans that did not conform to
their respective underwriting standards.”  Housing Slump  The bundling of the riskiest type of mortgages into
securities helped turn the U.S. housing slump into a global
recession as foreclosures deflated bond values and toppled Wall
Street firms including Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Allstate has sued several companies alleging fraud over
residential mortgage-backed securities, including Bank of
America Corp.’s Countrywide and Merrill Lynch units, JPMorgan
Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc., Credit Suisse Group AG and Deutsche
Bank AG.  Morgan Stanley has also been sued by banks and other
insurers, including  MBIA Inc. (MBI) ’s bond insurance unit, over
mortgage-backed securities. Morgan Stanley agreed to pay $102
million in June 2010 to settle claims by the state of
 Massachusetts  that the firm financed and securitized unfair
residential loans.  ‘Rescissionary’ Damages  Allstate, which is requesting a  jury trial , is asking for
unspecified compensatory and/or “rescissionary” damages. As of
May, an average of more than 35 percent of the mortgage loans
that backed the securities purchased by Allstate were more than
60 days delinquent or were in foreclosure, bankruptcy or
repossession, according to the suit.  “This figure does not include the substantial losses
suffered by Allstate” since the residential mortgage-backed
securities’ “issuance due to foreclosures and defaults, and the
removal of those failed  mortgage loans  from the current loan
pool and current delinquency figures,” the lawsuit says.
“Indeed had such mortgage loans remained in the securitization,
the average serious delinquency rates would have been
substantially higher.”  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Morgan Stanley, declined to comment in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 