-- 
Most Indian Stocks Drop Amid Outlook for Earnings, Inflation

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-07-06T11:19:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/most-indian-stocks-drop-amid-outlook-for-earnings-inflation.html
Most stocks on India’s benchmark
index dropped for the second day as investors weighed the
strength of profit growth against measures to stem inflation.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the second-biggest lender, and Tata Power
Co., the largest generator outside government control, led the
declines.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT) , the biggest builder of power
networks and refineries, climbed the most in a week after saying
it aims to double orders outside India.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, fell
17.59, or 0.1 percent, to 18,726.97 at the 3:30 p.m. close in
Mumbai. Three stocks fell for every two that climbed. The index
swung between gains and losses at least 10 times. The measure
gained 5 percent in the two-week period ended July 1. The S&P
CNX Nifty Index retreated 0.1 percent to 5,625.45 and its July
futures settled at 5,636. The BSE 200 Index lost 0.1 percent.  “Investors see no point in being aggressive ahead of the
corporate earnings season,” said Ashish Chaturmohta, vice
president of derivatives and technical analysis at IIFL Private
Wealth Management Ltd. in Mumbai. “Some investors are seeing
the recent rally as an opportunity to exit rather than go long
at these levels.” The Nifty may slide below 5,400 if there’s
“more negative news from the domestic front and  Greece .”  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) , the biggest mortgage
lender, advanced 1.5 percent to 710.9 rupees, its highest close
since April 28. The lender will be the first Sensex company to
report June quarter earnings on July 8. Kisan Ratilal Choksey
Shares and Securities Pvt. said in a July 4 report the 77
companies under its coverage may post an average 14.9 percent
gain in profit for the period.  ‘Further Pressure’  Some 33 percent of Sensex companies reported profits that
missed analysts’ estimates in the March quarter, compared with
less than a quarter last year, as high borrowing costs eroded
demand for their products.  “There will be further pressure on margins and bottomline
growth will be slower than in the previous quarter,” said
Apurva Shah, vice president and head of institutional research
at Prabhudas Lilladher Ltd. in Mumbai.  ICICI Bank shed 2 percent to 1,075.45 rupees and its July
futures settled at 1,080 rupees.  State Bank of India (SBIN) , the
biggest lender, lost 1.2 percent to 2,443.85 rupees, halting a
nine-day 16 percent advance.  Axis Bank Ltd. (AXSB) , the fourth-largest
lender, shed 1.3 percent to 1,310.15 rupees, its steepest drop
since June 15.  Credit Suisse Group AG expects margins of Indian lenders to
contract 10 to 15 basis points in the June quarter compared with
the three months ended March as “hike in savings deposit rate
and term deposit re-pricing, partially offset lending rate
hikes,” analysts led by Ashish Gupta wrote in a report today.  Tata Power slipped 2.1 percent to 1,290.15 rupees.  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , the second-largest mobile-phone operator,
sank 2.4 percent to 97.35 rupees. The stock has lost 33 percent
this year, the most among Sensex companies.  Overseas Orders  Larsen & Toubro added 0.8 percent to 1,806.6 rupees, its
steepest gain since June 30. Its July futures settled at
1,812.95 rupees. Orders from overseas will increase to 25
percent of total contracts in the period as the company divides
operations into nine units to improve management focus, Chief
Financial Officer Y.M. Deosthalee said in a July 4 interview at
his Mumbai office. Such transactions now account for less than
10 percent of orders, he said.  The Sensex has declined 8.7 percent this year, the worst
performer among benchmark indexes in the world’s biggest stock
markets, as India’s central bank raised rates 10 times since the
start of 2010 to cool inflation. Sensex companies trade at 15.2
times estimated earnings, the highest since April 28. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index trades at 11.2 times profit.  China  Rates  China’s central bank raised benchmark deposit and lending
rates by 25 basis points effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank
of China said on its website today. The announcement came after
Indian markets closed.  “As one of the worst global performers’ year to date,
India has been singled out for specific punishment,” analysts
led by Nick Paulson-Ellis, India country head of Espirito Santo
Securities, wrote in a report today. “It was relatively
expensive, has the most pressing inflation problem of any major
economy, and that has resulted in the most aggressive tightening
cycle with 10 upward moves since January 2010.”  Investors are driving up yields on India’s bonds by the
most since April as economists say there is a risk inflation may
accelerate to the fastest among the Group of 20 nations.  Wholesale-price increases will climb to 10 percent by
September, eight of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
predicted, while the other two said the rate will be higher than
the 9 percent estimated by policy makers.  The weekly food inflation data is scheduled for tomorrow.  Fuel Costs  Truckers and commodities suppliers say they will pass on
higher fuel costs to customers after retailers raised diesel
prices by 9 percent on June 25, the first time in a year the
government has allowed an increase.  The cost of fixing rates on money for five years in the
nation’s interest-rate swap market has climbed 11 basis points
to 7.76 percent since June 24, when the government allowed state
refiners to increase kerosene prices by 2 rupees a liter and
cooking gas by 50 rupees for every 14.2 kilogram bottle.  Rate increases will slow growth this year and help ease
inflation to 6 percent “with an upward bias” by March 2012,
 Reserve Bank  of  India  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said in May. The
economy may grow “around 8 percent” in the year through March,
from 8.5 percent in the previous 12 months, he estimated.  Still, foreign funds have been net buyers of Indian stocks
for nine trading sessions. They purchased a net 8.61 billion
rupees ($193.4 million) of Indian stocks yesterday, raising
total investment in equities this year to 73.9 billion rupees,
according to data on the  website  of the regulator.  “Given its high correlation to foreign flows, Indian
equities will continue to be buffeted by the ebb and flow of
global risk appetite,” Espirito analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  