-- 
How America Ceded Capitalism’s Bastion to German Boerse Seizing Big Board

-- B y   B o b   I v r y ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 
2011-07-06T02:46:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/how-america-ceded-capitalism-s-bastion-to-germans.html
Richard A. Grasso can now reveal the
secret ingredients.  The clam-juice cocktails at the private Stock Exchange
Luncheon Club, where brokers lined up three deep at the raw bar,
contained tomato juice, cooled water from boiled chowder clams,
ketchup, celery salt and the option of a freshly shucked clam.
Add vodka and they called it a Red Snapper.  “Everyone for years tried to duplicate it, and it was dead
wrong,” said Grasso, 64, who started at the  New York  Stock
Exchange as a clerk for $81 a week in 1968, a year after the
NYSE first accepted a woman as a member.  The clam-juice cocktails are long gone, along with the
club, which closed in 2006. So is Grasso, who quit in 2003 as
chief executive officer amid furor over his $140 million
compensation.  The NYSE’s domination of U.S.  stock trading  is gone, too.
Once it handled 82 percent of the share volume involving
companies it listed, with most of those deals done by brokers in
colored smocks shouting orders on the exchange floor. Now the
NYSE and a sister exchange’s shrunken 35 percent share of those
transactions is executed mainly by computer servers stacked in a
brick building in suburban  Mahwah, New Jersey , about 33 miles
(53 kilometers) from  Wall Street . What mostly remains at the
neoclassical Manhattan headquarters is a TV stage where business
executives and celebrities such as Miss USA or Snooki from MTV’s
 “Jersey Shore”  ring open and close trading sessions.  The Big Board most of the world knows has been reduced to a
server farm and a bell.  Symbol of Capitalism  The 219-year-old symbol of American capitalism, now called
NYSE Euronext, is about to complete a $9.42 billion merger with
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  that will give the Frankfurt-based firm 60
percent of what would be the biggest exchange company in the
world. The deal is the culmination of a decade of scandal,
regulatory mandates and a technology arms race that opened the
industry to electronic upstarts and forced the old Wall Street
boys’ club to become an international company that makes most of
its money from businesses other than stock trading.  “When I started in the business,  Deutsche Boerse  was open
for two hours a day and the New York Stock Exchange was THE NEW
YORK STOCK EXCHANGE,” said  Thomas Caldwell , chief executive
officer of Caldwell Securities Ltd., a money-management firm in
Toronto, who has worked in the industry since 1965. “You just
have to stop and say, ‘Wait a minute here -- Deutsche Boerse,
New York, equal partners? How did that happen?’”  Faster, Cheaper  Over the years, trading has gotten cheaper and faster,
benefiting investors. Buying 1,000 shares of AT&T before 1975
would have cost $800 in commissions, Charles Schwab, who founded
discount brokerage Charles Schwab Corp.,  told  the U.S. Senate in
February 2000. That’s about 100 times more than the fees paid by
some retail stock-pickers today.  Even so, many of those same investors abandoned equities
after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the benchmark measure of
U.S. stocks, plummeted 6.2 percent in 20 minutes on May 6, 2010.
Though the NYSE was the only exchange that didn’t have to cancel
transactions after the so-called flash crash, the plunge created
the perception that markets in general weren’t safe because
high-frequency traders, who buy and sell in milliseconds, are
beyond the reach of regulators and enjoy trading advantages on
exchanges, said Joe Saluzzi, co-head of equities trading at
Themis Trading LLC in Chatham,  New Jersey .  “We have a two-tiered market,” Saluzzi said. “Some
traders have information and speed, and the exchange caters to
them because that’s where it makes its money.” The merger won’t
change that formulation, he said.  Equal Access  The NYSE is required to allow all customers access to all
services, said Richard C. Adamonis, a  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  spokesman.
Other markets don’t have that requirement, he said.  The deal with Deutsche Boerse needs the approval of half
the NYSE Euronext shareholders, who are scheduled to vote
tomorrow, and three-fourths of the German firm’s stockholders,
who will decide by July 13. The companies have wooed
shareholders by agreeing to pay about 620 million euros ($895
million) in dividends.  “There’s this sentiment out there that we’re not what we
were, and that’s right, we’re not,” NYSE Euronext CEO Duncan L. Niederauer, 51, a former co-head of equities trading for Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., said in an interview. “The NYSE doesn’t want
to be what it was. The game changed. We’re obliged to get into
new services, new products, new asset classes, new regions. If
we do that successfully, that’s a great story, not a sad
story.”  Niederauer, Francioni  Niederauer is slated to be CEO of the combined NYSE
Euronext and Deutsche Boerse. Reto Francioni, the head of the
German company, will be chairman.  New products, namely derivatives such as options and
interest-rate swaps, are what Niederauer is counting on to
revive a company whose stock has lost almost half its value
since it started trading in March 2006. NYSE Liffe,  Europe ’s
second-biggest derivatives market, will join Eurex, the biggest,
owned by Deutsche Boerse.  After doubling each year from 2005 to 2007, NYSE Euronext’s
operating income has since slowed, falling 32 percent in 2009
and growing 3.7 percent last year.  Combined, Liffe and Eurex may earn $1.18 billion in three
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, Credit Suisse
Group AG and Macquarie Group Ltd. Applying the average valuation
of its three closest derivatives-market competitors would result
in a business worth more than the combined companies before they
agreed to merge -- and that’s leaving out their other
operations.  The Specialists  The old NYSE ran with the help of a group of stock traders
called specialists. In 2002, seven NYSE-designated firms,
including LaBranche & Co., had the job of stepping in and
trading stocks when there were imbalances between buy and sell
orders so that ups and downs could be smoothed. Specialists were
also required to hang back as long as NYSE customers could trade
with one another.  LaBranche, created in January 1924, became the first
independent specialist firm to sell shares to the public in
August 1999. With their central role in trading and their access
to market information, specialists were a closed and lucrative
club.  In papers prepared for its initial public offering,
LaBranche disclosed that it regularly turned about 71 percent of
sales into profit before paying its managing directors. Earnings
before that expense climbed at least 25 percent every year from
1995 through 1999, almost doubling in 1998. That year, 34
managing directors split a compensation pool that gave each of
them an average of about $1.7 million, according to regulatory
filings.  Charges Filed  Technology and the government would undermine the
specialists’ profitability.  In 2004, the  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission 
charged all seven specialists, including LaBranche, with making
$158 million from trading when they didn’t need to step in and
filling orders at levels that were inferior to the best prices.
Specialist firms settled with the regulator for $247 million.  The U.S. government’s pursuit of criminal charges against
15 individual specialists for securities fraud went nowhere.
Some were acquitted while others saw their charges dismissed.
One jury conviction of a Fleet Specialist Inc. employee was
overturned by a federal judge, who said prosecutors hadn’t
proved fraud. The guilty pleas of two others were set aside.  No More Peeks  After the scandal, the specialists’ role at the NYSE
declined as trading became more automated and rules changed.
LaBranche never posted annual net income after 2006, and it sold
its NYSE market-maker business to London-based  Barclays Plc (BCS)  in
2010 and the rest of the company to  Cowen Group Inc. (COWN) , a New York
investment bank, in June.  The specialists have been replaced by “designated market
makers,” who no longer see all the orders coming into the
exchange and don’t have to wait until others trade, though they
must continue to smooth order imbalances and maintain what the
NYSE describes as fair and orderly markets.  Grasso, who became CEO in 1995, defended the specialists,
running interference for them with the media and the government
at the expense of investing in new technology to make its market
faster, said Alfred R. Berkeley, president from 1996 to 2000 of
 Nasdaq  Stock Market Inc., the NYSE’s biggest rival for corporate
listings.  The decline of the traditional NYSE reflected “regulatory
policy, nothing the exchange management did,” Grasso said.  Talcum Powder  The NYSE was a men’s-only club until 1967, a place where
brokers could leave their dress shoes on the stairs leading to
the trading floor after they changed into sneakers for the work
day. It was a place where paper orders, crumpled and discarded,
would pile so high that cleanup workers looked like they were
shoveling snow.  Traders kept containers of talcum powder in their desks,
said James Maguire Jr., 49, who first worked on the NYSE floor
in 1979 as a college freshman on Christmas break. When famous
visitors arrived, one trader would distract the celebrity or CEO
and another would shake the talcum on their shoes. When  New York
Jets quarterback  Richard Todd showed up in white shoes, they
used cocoa, he said.  “It was good-natured fun,” said Maguire, who worked as a
clerk, a broker and a specialist until 2004. “The idea was that
you may be a big shot in the board room or in politics, but
you’re on our turf. You’re one of the guys.”  The back-slapping extended to NYSE governance, according to
a 2003 letter by William H. Donaldson, 80, chairman and CEO of
the Big Board from 1990 to 1995, and chairman of the SEC, the
exchange’s chief regulator, from 2003 to 2005.  Protecting Investors  Until 2003, the CEOs of 10 brokerages regulated by the NYSE
sat on the exchange’s board, and half the NYSE’s 12 public
directors, designated to protect investors’ interests, were
presidents, CEOs or former CEOs of firms that traded on the
exchange, such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer
William B. Harrison Jr.  The board allowed Grasso to pick the directors who set his
compensation. One Grasso choice was Kenneth G. Langone, the co-
founder of Home Depot Inc., who became chairman of the
compensation committee. Grasso, in turn, sat on the board and
compensation committee of Home Depot.  Grasso was hailed as a savior of Wall Street for his work
to restore the NYSE following the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11,
2001, which halted U.S. equities trading for four days, the
longest shutdown since 1933. When terrorists flew two hijacked
jetliners into the World Trade Center’s twin towers, just blocks
away, Grasso used the public-address system to urge staff and
traders to remain calm.  Trusting Grasso  “I saw their reaction to his voice, and I was impressed,”
Bill Silver, a floor trader, said in an interview six days
later. “He’s a respected authority there and they trusted his
judgment.”  Grasso was “spectacular” in working to reopen the
exchange, said Harvey L. Pitt, who at the time was chairman of
the SEC.  “He called me the first thing every morning and the last
thing every night, to check in with me, find out what I wanted,
to offer suggestions,” Pitt said.  The attacks highlighted the vulnerabilities of
concentrating so much of the U.S. equities market in one
location.  The aftermath of the restoration also provided an early
glimpse into the compensation issue that would result in
Grasso’s ouster. He received a $5 million bonus in 2001, in part
for his work in reopening the exchange.  $140 Million Package  Kurt Viermetz, a JPMorgan vice chairman at the time,
praised Grasso at a dinner in June 2003 for his role in
restoring the capital markets -- with one catch.  “For some, our American hero was a little overpaid,”
Viermetz added.  Later in 2003, the NYSE board went further, awarding Grasso
$140 million -- enough for almost 8,000 years of tuition at New
York-based  Pace University , where Grasso was given an honorary
degree. As Grasso’s predecessor as CEO of the NYSE, Donaldson
had received annual pay of about $2 million.  After he found out about Grasso’s compensation, which
followed the specialist scandal, Donaldson, Pitt’s successor as
SEC chairman, demanded an explanation. “Grasso’s pay package
raises serious questions regarding the effectiveness of the
NYSE’s current governance structure,” Donaldson wrote in a
letter to the NYSE board.  Nothing Wrong  “In my opinion, nobody did anything wrong except there
were judgments made about compensation that people can debate,”
Harrison, the former JPMorgan CEO, said in an interview. “A lot
of people thought it was too much. Some people didn’t.”
Harrison wouldn’t say which side he came down on.  Institutional investors trading on the NYSE, however, had
few qualms about questioning the board for paying Grasso so
much, and some called for Grasso to quit, which he did.  Grasso had previously lobbied the NYSE board to oust
Donaldson, according to Charles Gasparino’s book, “King of the
Club,” and “Donaldson had a long memory,” Pitt said. “This
was his chance to get even.”  In an interview, Donaldson said there was nothing personal
about his battle with Grasso over the pay package.  “It was a tough thing to do,” Donaldson said. “I felt
this was a really bad situation, a self-regulatory agency was
writing rules for corporate America and not having any
guidelines for its own governance.”  Grasso’s compensation didn’t constitute a scandal, Langone
said in an interview.  ‘The Last Emperor’  “There was nothing illegal or criminal about it, or
unethical, which is even better,” he said. “It was the members
deciding how much Mr. Grasso was worth, and he was paid that
amount of money. It was the members’ money. It wasn’t some
charity.”  “Grasso was the one person who personified the
institution, who knew everyone and knew where every body was
buried,” said John C. Coffee, a securities professor at
Columbia University’s law school in New York. “Dick Grasso was
the last emperor.”  The Grasso compensation and specialists scandals reduced
the NYSE’s political power and gave the Donaldson-led SEC more
leverage to push through new rules that reshaped the U.S. stock
markets, according to James Angel, a finance professor at the
McDonough School of Business at Georgetown University in
 Washington .  Horse and Buggy  “You can’t have your monopoly and eat it, too,” Angel
said. “In 2001 they were operating a horse-and-buggy market
where humans screamed at humans. When you add the scandals, that
led to a regulatory environment that made it easier for
competitors to compete.”  In 2005, the SEC approved  Regulation NMS , for national
market system. The new rules were designed to drive down trading
costs for investors and increase competition among exchanges,
eroding the dominance of NYSE and Nasdaq’s exchanges by moving
trading onto as many as 50 markets.  Reg NMS was the final nail in the coffin for the old New
York Stock Exchange.  It altered and expanded the trade-through rule, which gave
exchanges 30 seconds to fill orders sent by a rival. Critics
said the rule led to delayed executions, cherry-picked orders
and sometimes less-than-best prices for investors. Reg NMS gave
a boost to faster electronic markets and increased competition
for the NYSE. Prices on exchanges that weren’t fully electronic,
like the NYSE at the time, could be ignored, the SEC said.  Bats, Direct Edge  Nasdaq, which had faced competition from electronic trading
systems since at least the late 1990s, acquired the Inet
electronic equity market in 2005 and consolidated U.S. equity
trading onto the company’s platform within a year. The company
had bought Brut, an early electronic communications network, or
ECN, in 2004.  Since 2000, Bats Global Markets, based in Lenexa, Kansas,
and  Jersey City , New Jersey-based Direct Edge Holdings LLC, each
of which now runs two stock exchanges, have grabbed 18 percent
of a marketplace that used to be dominated by the NYSE.  The owner of the Big Board increased its commitment to
electronic trading in 2005 when it announced it would buy
Archipelago Holdings Inc., a Chicago-based electronic exchange
operator.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News,
operates  Bloomberg Tradebook , an electronic trading system.  Market Free-Fall  While all this market fragmentation drove trading costs
down, it also has been blamed for the May 6, 2010, market free-
fall. Between 2:40 p.m. and 3 p.m. New York time that day, a
plunge in stock prices erased $862 billion of market value.
 Accenture Plc (ACN) , a Dublin-based technology consulting firm, fell
as low as a penny from about $41.  The decline was triggered partly by one firm’s trade in
stock-index futures, according to a study released Oct. 1 by the
SEC and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The
trading algorithm employed by the firm, identified by two people
with knowledge of the findings as Overland Park, Kansas-based
 Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. (WDR) , sparked the rapid selling of
stock futures because it took into account volume but not price
or time, the report said.  Volume increased as high-frequency traders, who buy and
sell based on split-second price movements, traded as stock
futures fell, prompting the mutual fund to increase its sell
orders to the market. Disparate rules across stock exchanges and
delays in the dissemination of trading data, especially for
companies listed on the Big Board, led to confusion in the
equities market, the report said.  Creating a Vacuum  “What we learned is that there are so many venues that
trade the same product and don’t have the same rules,” Grasso
said. That created a “vacuum” on May 6, he said. “The
institutional difference is profound.”  The flash crash highlighted a trade-off that continues.
Buying and selling stocks is cheaper and faster, but can also be
riskier.  “People sometimes feel that the computers are too much in
control,” John A. Carey, a Boston-based  money manager  at
Pioneer Investments, which oversees about $250 billion, said of
exchanges in general. “In the old days, at least you had
specialists on the floor who could get a sense of what was going
on and could calm people down.”  Since the May 6 crash, the SEC has instituted so-called
circuit breakers for some of the largest stocks and almost 350
exchange-traded funds. If a security drops 10 percent or more in
five minutes, trading in those shares stops for five minutes.
The SEC is in the process of altering the curbs to limit price
moves instead of halting stocks.  Investors Yank Money  That didn’t stop the acceleration of investors fleeing
equity markets that began with the collapse of confidence in
credit markets following the Sept. 15, 2008, bankruptcy of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  Retail investors pulled $96.6
billion from U.S. stock funds between May and December 2010,
even as the  S&P 500  rose 6 percent, according to data from
Washington-based Investment Company Institute and Bloomberg.
That represented 2.3 percent of the 2010 year-end assets in U.S.
equity funds, ICI data show.  At the same time, bond funds were gaining, with about $121
billion in inflows during the same period. It wasn’t until the
start of 2011 that investors returned to stocks, adding $11.4
billion in January, the most in 20 months. They withdrew more
than $5 billion in March and have taken money out every week of
May and June, ICI data show.  Many Millionaires  Under John A. Thain, who was president of Goldman Sachs
before he became NYSE CEO in January 2004, the exchange went
public by completing its merger with Archipelago in March 2006,
making multi-millionaires of the specialists and brokers who
owned seats on the NYSE. Thirteen months later the company paid
9 billion euros for Euronext NV, which operated exchanges in
Brussels, Lisbon, Paris and Amsterdam, where it was based, and
the Liffe derivatives exchange.  Derivatives offer NYSE Euronext’s biggest operating margin
and are an increasing share of the company’s profit. As late as
the first quarter of 2009, NYSE Euronext said stock trading and
listings made up 61 percent of net revenue. In the first quarter
of 2011, that unit contributed 48 percent, while 35 percent came
from derivatives trading and 17 percent from its technology
division, according to a regulatory filing.  After the merger with Deutsche Boerse, the derivatives
business would account for 37 percent of the combined company’s
revenue, while stock trading and listings would shrink to 29
percent, the company said at an April shareholder meeting,
citing 2010 pro forma data.  Ethnic Cliques  Changes have swept out the industry’s clubby atmosphere,
said Berkeley, formerly of Nasdaq and now chairman of Pipeline
Trading Systems LLC in New York.  “There were WASP cliques, Jewish cliques and Irish cliques
when I came into the business in the early 1970s,” Berkeley
said. “Technology blew that away. Technology doesn’t care what
color you are. It cares how much you know.”  Technology has also made the NYSE floor “way quieter”
than it used to be, said Maguire, who told the  talcum-powder 
story.  “When I walk in now, there’s that absence of the buzz,”
he said. “The business is still out there, but it’s being done
by computers.”  Those computers are located in a high-security building on
a neatly landscaped 28-acre (113,300 square meters) former
quarry in Mahwah, a northern New Jersey crossroads just south of
the New York state border. Everything there is big. Pipes 20
inches (51 centimeters) in diameter bring water to cool the
computers. The 20 surge protectors that guard against power
outages are each as big as a Hummer H4. Generators on hand in
case the facility loses utility power can keep cranking
electricity on their own.  The Grid  Brokerages and high-speed trading firms can pay a  basic fee 
of $8,000 a month to have their computer servers hooked up to
the trading grid, where orders are executed, according to the
NYSE Web site.  The landscape is very different from the one Dick Grasso
left eight years ago.  “You know what? You never look back,” Grasso said,
wearing a black suit with a pink tie and a 9/11 lapel pin
depicting an American flag on a New York Police Department
badge, during a recent interview. “The tape goes in one
direction.” He thrust out his hand and moved it slowly,
following an invisible stock ticker. “Remember that. It only
goes in one direction.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Ivry in New York at 
 bivry@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at 
 gputka@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  