-- 
Mozambique Plans to Revise Mining Law, Wants Greater Share

-- B y   F r e d   K a t e r e r e
-- 
2011-07-06T16:46:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/mozambique-plans-to-revise-mining-law-wants-greater-state-involvement.html
Mozambique ’s government plans to
revise the country’s mining law and will seek to give the state
a share of projects in “strategic sectors” such as coal,
Mineral Resources Minister Esperanca Bias said.  The government started a series of meetings with license
holders and other interested parties about its plans, Bias said
at an industry conference today in the capital, Maputo. The
government won’t take any decisions without discussing them with
the companies, she said in an interview after the speech.  “The state should have a percentage of participation in
consortia or companies that have mining concessions to explore
mineral resources that are considered strategic,” Bias said.  Resource-rich African nations, including Namibia, Zimbabwe
and  Guinea , are planning to revise mineral laws to take
advantage of commodity prices which have surged on the global
economic recovery.  Vale SA (VALE5)  is mining coal in Mozambique, while
 Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  is buying Riversdale Mining Ltd. that operates in
the southern African country.  Rio Tinto  declined to immediately
comment.  The changes will affect all mining activities, including
coal, gold, uranium and all other minerals, although the
percentage the state will keep is still up for discussion, Bias
said in the interview. The law could be ready by the end of the
year, she said.  Gains Tax  Shares of Dublin-based  Kenmare Resources Plc (KMR) , a producer of
titanium minerals in Mozambique dropped 8.1 percent to 55 pence
as of the 4:30 p.m. close in London, the biggest decline since
October. Kenmare wasn’t immediately available to comment.  “Kenmare is one of the only significant mining operations
currently operating in Mozambique so I’m sure they will be
having conversations,” Jeremy Dibb, a Canaccord Genuity Ltd.
analyst in  London , said by phone.  The new law, which would replace the Mining Law of 2002,
may see investors who sell their licenses or concessions pay tax
on the gains made on the transactions, Bias said. It will
probably also give the state the right to take back concessions
not developed within a certain period, she said.  “When we have consensus then everyone will know” what the
new law’s terms are, she said.  Mozambique will hold the government share of projects
through the state-owned Empresa Mocambicana de Exploracao
Mineira SA, Bias said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Katerere in Johannesburg at 
 fkaterere@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  