-- 
Paramount Pictures Creates Animation Division, Plans First Film for 2014

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 
2011-07-06T21:50:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/paramount-pictures-creates-animation-division-plans-first-film-for-2014.html
Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s  Paramount Pictures ,
maker of the “Transformers” action films, will create an
animation unit that plans to release its first title in 2014.  Paramount Animation will focus on family oriented films,
spending as much as $100 million per movie, Paramount Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Brad Grey said today in a statement.
Initially, the unit intends to make one movie a year.  The move will enable Paramount to tap into the global
popularity of family films and generate consumer-products sales
through Viacom and its Nickelodeon children’s entertainment
unit, Grey said in a telephone interview. He said the studio has
considered a move into animation since his arrival in 2005.  “It was really a question of when are we going to get into
animation,” Grey said in the interview. “Now is the time
because technology is such that you can do it in the most
prudent and intelligent way.”  The new unit may compete with Glendale, California-based
 DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , whose movies are distributed by
Paramount under a contract that expires at the end of 2012.  “Viacom is putting a hedge in place in case that deal is
not renewed,” said  Tony Wible , a New York-based analyst at
Janney Montgomery Scott who has ratings of “buy” for Viacom
and “neutral” for DreamWorks. “More broadly, this highlights
the continuing trend of more competition in animation.”  DreamWorks Contract  Paramount has offered to extend its contract with
DreamWorks Animation for one year under the existing terms,
according to a person familiar with the situation. Paramount
won’t renew the agreement beyond that unless it receives more
favorable terms, said the person, who requested anonymity
because the discussions are private.  DreamWorks Animation had no comment on Paramount’s
announcement of the new unit or on contract discussions, said
Shannon Olivas, a company spokeswoman.  The Paramount Animation announcement follows the studio’s
March release of “Rango,” which cost about $135 million and
generated $243.2 million in ticket sales, according to Box
Office Mojo.com.  “Rango,” directed by  Gore Verbinski , was Paramount’s
first in-house computer-animated production. The film, about a
timid chameleon who becomes sheriff in the Old West, features
the voices of  Johnny Depp  and Bill Nighy.  New York-based Viacom’s Class B shares rose 1 cent to
$51.96 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
They have gained 31 percent this year. DreamWorks fell 54 cents,
or 2.6 percent, to $20.12 and have fallen 32 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  