-- 
Peruvian Bonds Rise to 3-Month High on Bets Economy to Rebound

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-07-06T22:26:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/peruvian-bonds-rise-to-3-month-high-on-bets-economy-to-rebound.html
Peruvian bonds rose to a three-month
high as investors bet the South American nation’s economy will
keep growing after President-elect Ollanta Humala takes office.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 6.25 percent, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose 0.14 centimo to 110.89
centimos per sol, the highest since March 18.  President  Alan Garcia  said the Peruvian economy remains
“healthy” and “vigorous” even after the pace of growth
slowed in the second quarter. Expansion will accelerate afterHumala takes power July 28 and announces his economic policies,
Garcia told reporters in  Lima .  “Investors’ perception of the incoming government has
improved and they’re just waiting for policies to be
announced,” said  Mario Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank
Peru. “Some investors may have brought forward their
investments in fixed income. Once the policies have been
announced, if they are in line with what the market has been
expecting, there may be some bigger purchases.”  The Peruvian sol gained 0.1 percent to 2.7460 per  U.S.
dollar , from 2.7490 yesterday, according to Deutsche Bank’s
local unit.  Economic activity has slowed amid concern Humala’s pledges
to increase mining royalties and enlarge state companies may
deter the foreign investment that fuelled the region’s fastest
growth of the last decade.  Bond Purchases  Foreign investors renewed bond purchases in the second half
of June as Peru’s political risk eased and investors bet the
central bank will be under less pressure to raise its benchmark
lending rate after consumer prices fell, according to Deutsche
Bank, one of six banks approved to trade Peruvian government
debt in the domestic market.  The yield on the 2020 bond has dropped 66 basis points
since the initial sell-off triggered by Humala’s June 5 election
victory.  “Economic fundamentals will continue to favor Peruvian
sovereign bonds,” Deutsche Bank said in a statement to the
 Finance Ministry  released today. “The curve can rally a little
more, but the back-end should outperform as longer-term bonds
have lagged and the curve seems steep.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  