-- 
Picasso’s Women Star in Revealing Retrospective: West Coast Art

-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/picasso-s-many-styles-women-star-in-broad-retrospective-west-coast-art.html
The beautiful, sad-looking Olga
Kokhlova, a dancer with Diaghilev’s Ballets Russes, sits with
her right arm draped over the back of a chair, a partially open
fan in her lap. The dark floral patterns of her dress and the
upholstery stand out against the flat background of pale gold.  Painted by  Pablo Picasso  in 1918, shortly before his
marriage to Olga, the portrait is completely realistic in style.  With echoes of 19th-century neoclassicism and Japanese
screens, it’s one of the surprises in an exhibition from the
 Musee National Picasso  in Paris, now on view in San Francisco.  The “Portrait of Olga in an Armchair” came after a decade
in which Picasso’s work had grown increasingly strange (many
said outrageous), starting with his fascination for primitive
art and evolving into his co-invention of Cubism with Georges
Braque.  In Olga’s portrait, Picasso seems to be saying that he
still knows how to paint the old-fashioned way. It also
represents one of those stylistic about-faces that marked his
prolific career.  The elegant show at the  de Young Museum  is organized
chronologically, starting with the artist’s blue and rose
periods in the first years of the 20th century. This is followed
by a roomful of rough and finished studies based on African
masks that led to the landmark “Les Demoiselles d’Avignon” of
1907.  The spooky “Woman With Clasped Hands,” whose blank face
and body are rendered mostly in white, gray and black, is a
standout from the period.  Wives, Lovers  Then we’re on to fully abstract Cubism, the realism of the
post-World War I period, Picasso’s unique brand of surrealism in
the late 1920s and 1930s, his politically themed work in the
years before World War II and the looser, dreamlike images of
his late period. He died in 1973 at the age of 91.  With Picasso changing muses as often as artistic styles,
the show is also a survey of the women in his life.  After unsmiling Olga, there was the young blonde Marie-
Therese Walter, often seen nude in bed; the serious photographer
Dora Maar, who was the model for the “weeping women” studies
that preceded the monumental antiwar “Guernica” of 1937;
Francoise Gilot, a painter and writer; Jacqueline Roque, his
second wife. And others.  The French government acquired the collection after
Picasso’s death, in lieu of taxes, and while the museum’s home
in Paris is being renovated, some of its best works are on
worldwide tour.  Scary ‘Cat’  Look for the scary “Cat Catching a Bird” (1937), a
political allegory in gray and black, with only the bird’s open
wound rendered in red; and the clever “Bull’s Head” (1942), a
sculpture made from a bicycle seat and handlebar.  For the de Young, the exhibition represents a sequel to its
two blockbuster shows last year on Impressionism and Post-
Impressionism. It’s also a fine companion to “The Steins
Collect: Matisse, Picasso and the Parisian Avant-Garde,” a
remarkable exhibition about Picasso’s early patron Gertrude
Stein and her art-collecting family, on view this summer at the
 San Francisco Museum of Modern Art , and a companion show,
“Seeing Gertrude Stein,” at the Contemporary Jewish Museum.  “Picasso: Masterpieces From the Musee National Picasso,
Paris” runs through Oct. 9 at the de Young Museum, Golden Gate
Park,  San Francisco . Information: +1-415-750-3600;
 http://www.famsf.org . The exhibition travels next to Sydney,
where it opens Nov. 12 at the Art Gallery of New South Wales.  (Stephen West is an editor for Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in San Francisco at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 