-- 
Pick n Pay to Slash About 8% of Workforce as Profit Drops, Wal-Mart Enters

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-07-06T17:34:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/pick-n-pay-to-slash-about-8-of-workforce-as-profit-drops-wal-mart-enters.html
Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. (PIK) ,  South
Africa ’s second-biggest grocer, may fire about 8.6 percent of
its workforce after profit slumped and the retailer prepares for
competition from  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   Labor unions have been informed that Pick n Pay plans to
eliminate 3,137 out of 36,673 posts at its retail outlets, the
Cape Town-based company said today in two statements. The total
number excludes franchise stores.  Pick n Pay’s profit plunged 29 percent in the six months
through Feb. 28 as the company lost market share to bigger rival
 Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP)  and struggled to curb costs, including
rising wages after a 13-day strike in November. Wal-Mart, based
in Bentonville,  Arkansas , bought a 51 percent stake in  Massmart
Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  last month and said it will create 15,000 jobs in
South Africa within five years. It also announced discounts on
products from televisions to paint and bread.  “We are somewhat taken aback” at Pick n Pay’s
announcement, given that negotiations haven’t been concluded,
said Lucas Ramatlhodi, secretariat coordinator for the South
African Commercial, Catering and Allied Workers’ Union, which
represents 16,000 to 21,000 Pick n Pay employees.  “We are not sure what informs their need to want to
retrench people,” Ramatlhodi said by phone from Johannesburg.
“Our view is that you cannot conclude that workers are in
surplus. We will do everything in our power to defend jobs.”  ‘Major Problem’  Pick n Pay shares rose 28 cents, or 0.7 percent, to 42.14
rand by the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg, giving the retailer a
market value of about 20.2 billion rand ($3 billion). The stock
has slumped 13 percent this year, compared with a 7.4 percent
gain in Shoprite shares.  “The decision had been taken after a great deal of thought
over a period of time and was in line with the major problem
facing the company in respect of declining profitability and the
loss of market share,” Pick n Pay said of the planned job cuts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  