-- 
Miners Gold Fields, Lonmin Pare Loan Costs in $2 Billion Refinancing Deals

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s   a n d   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-07-06T15:59:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/platinum-producer-lonmin-agrees-new-debt-facilities-worth-about-1-billion.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  and  Lonmin Plc (LMI) 
raised $2 billion from loans as rising raw material prices
prompt lenders to slash debt costs charged to commodities firms.  Gold Fields, the world’s fourth-largest gold producer,
arranged $1 billion of loans from 14 lenders including Barclays
Plc, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Bank of China Ltd. and BNP
Paribas SA. Lonmin, the world’s third-largest platinum producer,
got about $1 billion of dollar and South African rand-
denominated loans to replace existing credit lines.  Miners are expanding production to benefit from precious
metals prices. Gold gained for the 10th straight year in 2010,
rising to a record $1,577.57 an ounce in May. Platinum rose 15
percent to $1,736.50 an ounce in the past year.  The five-year revolving  credit line  to Gold Fields pays
initial interest of 120 to 160 basis points more than the  London 
interbank offered rate depending on the amount drawn, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The facility was oversubscribed
by 1.33 times, Gold Fields said.  “The new loan bears a lower interest rate than the
previous facility and significantly improves our debt maturity
profile,” Johannesburg-based Gold Fields’ Chief Financial
Officer Paul Schmidt said in an e-mailed statement today. The
miner will replace existing financing due to mature in 2013.  Improved Pricing  Lonmin’s transaction comprised $700 million of five-year
debt and about 2 billion South African rand ($296 million) of
bilateral loans. The London-based miner will use the money to
replace $875 million of existing loans with improved “pricing,
credit margins and covenants,” Chief Financial Officer Simon Scott said today in a statement.  BNP, Citigroup, HSBC Holdings Plc, JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc and
Standard Chartered Bank arranged the dollar portions of Lonmin’s
deal. FirstRand Bank Ltd, Investec Plc and  Standard Bank  of
South Africa Ltd. led the rand tranches.  Gold Fields’ lenders also include Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd.,  CIBC World Markets , Citigroup AG and JPMorgan, Gold
Fields said in an e-mailed response to a query. The deal was
mostly self-arranged, it said.  Gold Fields gained 2.45 rand, or 2.5 percent, to 99.45 rand
as of 4:04 p.m. in Johannesburg, while Lonmin was little changed
at 1,433 pence as of 3:05 p.m. in London.  A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at   fkhan33@bloomberg.net .
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  