-- 
White House Seeks ‘Positive’ Tax Revenue as U.S. Debt-Limit Talks Resume

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-07-07T13:35:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/plouffe-says-positive-revenues-must-be-part-of-long-term-u-s-debt-deal.html
White House adviser  David Plouffe 
pushed for “positive” revenue increases in a deal to cut the
U.S. deficit while Republicans continued to resist any net
growth in taxes as talks resume today on raising the
government’s debt ceiling.  The Obama administration and congressional leaders are
seeking an accord to lower the deficit during the next 10 to 12
years to pave the way for a vote to increase the $14.3 trillion
debt limit, and the tax issue looms as the major obstacle to a
deal.  “Our sense has been to make the numbers work, you’re going
to have to have a revenue-positive situation,” Plouffe said
yesterday at a Bloomberg breakfast in Washington. “Obviously,
the bigger the deal, the bigger the hole is to fill.”  The White House, in meetings led by Vice President  Joe Biden , had been willing to discuss cutting the deficit through
changing the way the government measures inflation, according to
people in both parties familiar with the administration’s
position who weren’t authorized to speak publicly. This would
amount to a cut in the annual cost-of-living adjustments for
entitlements like Social Security.  Two Democratic officials with knowledge of the
negotiations, who briefed reporters yesterday, said Social
Security was among the entitlement programs that may be
discussed to get to a larger deficit-reduction package.  ‘On the Table’  Illinois Senator  Richard Durbin , the chamber’s No. 2
Democrat, said Social Security should be on the table in
negotiations aimed at reducing  U.S. debt , provided that savings
are used to strengthen the retirement system.  “I’ll put Social Security on the table as long as several
things are clear: Number one, any savings in Social Security
goes to make Social Security stronger, longer,” Durbin said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television. “Secondly, we’ve got to
make sure the benefits structure that people really count on,
those in lower and middle-income categories, are going to be
protected and enhanced.”  Durbin said he supported a push toward assembling a large
package of cuts worth as much as $4 trillion over more than a
decade.  “Our economy, if it’s going to recover, needs a signal
that we understand the deficit challenge and can deal with it,”
he said. “I was afraid we were going to get stuck with a mini-
deal, and then a mini-mini deal.”  ‘Political Will’  Both parties understand the “skeletal outline” needed for
a compromise, which can be reached if leaders have the
“political will” to act, Durbin said.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of  Virginia  signaled some
flexibility before today’s White House talks, which include
Obama and top lawmakers from both parties, saying Republicans
may be amenable to closing some tax loopholes Democrats have
targeted if such moves are “coupled with offsetting tax cuts
somewhere else.”  Cantor and other Republicans, including House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of
 Kentucky , say a plan that includes more  tax revenue  won’t pass
the Republican-run House or the Democrat-controlled Senate,
where Republicans have enough votes to stall action.  Plouffe, making the White House case, said more revenue is
essential to achieve meaningful deficit reduction and provide
some balance to expected spending cuts for defense, domestic and
entitlement programs -- including Medicare and Medicaid.  He said that if Republicans “want deficit reduction, it’s
got to be balanced; therefore it’s got to have revenue.”  Leaving Comfort Zone  “Folks in the  Democratic Party  are going to have to, I
think, get out of their comfort zone,” Plouffe said, because
“you’re not going to have a credible deficit-reduction package
that doesn’t have some entitlement reform in savings.”  Cantor suggested possible Republican acceptance of
President Barack Obama’s proposals to end tax-break loopholes,
such as depreciation on corporate jets.  “If the president wants to talk loopholes, we will be glad
to talk loopholes,” Cantor told reporters in  Washington . Still,
he questioned the call by Obama, Plouffe and other Democrats for
a deficit-reduction package that includes additional tax
collections.  “Why would you want to raise taxes in a sputtering
economy?” Cantor asked. “So any discussion about loopholes
must be accompanied by offsetting tax cuts,” he said.  Twitter Event  Obama, during a “Twitter Town Hall” at the White House
yesterday, said Republicans shouldn’t use the debt-ceiling
bargaining “as a gun against the heads of the American people
to extract tax breaks for corporate jet owners or oil and gas
companies that are making billions of dollars.”  Responding to questions over the Twitter Inc. interactive
service, the president said he was “happy to have those
debates” on tax breaks because “the American people are on my
side on this.”  Obama and lawmakers are working to complete a deficit-
cutting deal by July 22 to give Congress enough time to write
and circulate the agreement before Aug. 2 -- the Treasury
Department’s projected date for expiration of its borrowing
authority.  Two Democratic officials familiar with the talks said that
at today’s session, which convenes at 11 a.m. Washington time,
Obama will argue that it may be easier to get a bipartisan deal
on a larger package of $2.5 trillion to $4 trillion over a
decade than a smaller or shorter-term compromise that some
lawmakers have said is becoming the more likely scenario.  Political Cover  A larger long-term accord would provide lawmakers in both
parties the political cover to say that while they oppose some
aspects of it, the opportunity to take significant steps to
revamp the government’s finances was too good to pass up, said
one of the two officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
ahead of the meeting.  Plouffe, at the breakfast session, said leaders in both
parties want a long-term deal, and he dismissed sharp rhetoric
from both sides at media events as external “theatrics.”  Some Republicans, such as Senator  John Cornyn  of  Texas ,
have suggested that a short-term package is more likely, given
the complexities of a larger agreement.  A smaller package would likely force Congress to vote again
on the debt ceiling before the 2012 elections, an outcome Obama
has said he wants to avoid.  Plouffe, Obama’s 2008 campaign manager, said the president
is pushing hard for a long-term plan because it would help the
economy and give investors greater confidence in the country’s
fiscal future.  It is also an accomplishment Obama could take into his 2012
re-election campaign.  Talking About Timing  In addition to the haggling over spending cuts and taxes,
Plouffe said negotiators are focusing on the timing of
implementing the parts of a final agreement to avoid upsetting
the fragile and slow economic recovery. He didn’t rule out the
possibility that a final package would push new revenue, raised
by closing tax loopholes or other measures, into later years
while providing short-term stimulus measures, such as a
temporary payroll tax cut.  “You’ve got to look at it as a holistic thing here,”
Plouffe said. “How do you hit your number so that you are
hitting an appropriate deficit-reduction target? You can’t look
at it as just one thing. It’s all of a piece.”  ‘Blueprint’ Available  Cantor expressed optimism that the basis for a deal would
be a “blueprint” for saving more than $2 trillion that was
produced in the Biden-led bipartisan debt-limit talks.  Those talks broke down last month after Cantor and the
other Republican participant, Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona ,
withdrew because of the impasse over tax increases.  The framework that is ‘still in the works’’ and “that we
can deliver on” includes more than $400 billion in cuts to
mandatory health-care spending, Cantor said.  Since the Biden-led talks ended, Obama and Boehner “have
been in discussion over some period of time now,” Cantor said.  Senator  John McCain  of Arizona, the 2008 Republican
presidential nominee, yesterday urged members of his party to
drop their insistence on including a balanced budget amendment
to the U.S. Constitution in any debt deal. They should also
agree to end scores of tax breaks for industries, including oil
and gas and manufacturing, as part of an overall agreement to
lower the corporate  tax rate , he said on the Senate floor.  “Reality today dictates that we don’t have the votes in
this body” for a balanced budget amendment, McCain said.
Although that may change in the future, he said, “for our
purposes today, in order to avoid what would be disastrous
consequences for our markets, our economy as a whole, and our
standing in the world, I encourage my colleagues to lay aside,
at least temporarily, their insistence that amending the
Constitution be a condition of their support for a solution to
this terrible problem.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  