-- 
Polish Central Bank to ‘Fine Tune’ Rates After Cutting GDP Growth Forecast

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-07-07T15:08:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/polish-central-bank-to-fine-tune-rates-after-cutting-gdp-growth-forecast.html
Poland ’s  central bank  may raise rates
at least once more this year to “fine tune” monetary policy
after it cut economic growth forecasts through 2013.  Narodowy Bank Polski yesterday left its seven-day interest
rate at 4.5 percent, the highest since 2008, and lowered its
2012 growth outlook to a range of 1.9 percent to 4.5 percent
from the March forecast of 2.3 percent to 4.8 percent.  The central bank paused its monetary-tightening cycle even
after inflation accelerated to 5 percent in May, double its
target, as it seeks gauge whether four rate increases this year
will tame consumer-price growth. Policy makers may still raise
borrowing costs further, Governor  Marek Belka  said.  “The central bank will be on hold in the coming months to
assess whether the slowdown is really under way and whether
inflation is falling,” said  Piotr Kalisz , chief economist at
Citigroup Inc.’s Warsaw-based unit. “This is not the end of the
tightening cycle because inflation will remain above the target
this year and next year. But we simply expect fine tuning.”  Yesterday’s rate decision matched the expectations of all
32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The zloty strengthened 0.6
percent to 3.9297 at 5 p.m. in Warsaw from 3.9523 late
yesterday.  Traders have reduced bets on how much more the central bank
will raise rates this year. Six-month forward rate agreements
are trading 29 basis points, or 0.29 percentage point, above the
three-month Warsaw interbank offered rate. The spread was 32
basis points last week. Three-month contracts are 17 basis
points higher and have narrowed 3 basis points this week.  ‘Key Sentence’  “The council doesn’t rule out monetary policy tightening
if prospects worsen for inflation returning to the target,” the
central bank said after the decision. “This is the key
sentence” of the statement, Belka said  The current pause is “supported by the new inflation and
GDP projections as well as the government’s plan to cut state
spending,” the central bank said.  Poland has pledged to cut the  budget deficit  to less than
the European Union limit of 3 percent of gross domestic product
next year from 7.9 percent in 2010.  While predicting faster price growth this year, the
inflation rate will be within the target range of 1.5 percent to
3.5 percent next year, the central bank forecast yesterday. For
2013, the bank lowered its outlook to 1.8 percent to 3.4
percent, from the March estimate of 2.1 percent to 3.7 percent.  ‘Clear Signal’  The central bank is “giving a clear signal that slowing
economic growth, accompanied by tighter fiscal policy, should
help bring inflation toward the target,” said Monika Kurtek,
chief economist at Bank Pocztowy in Warsaw. Kurtek said she
doesn’t expect another rate increase.  Further tightening in Poland may be prompted by European
Central Bank rate increases, which could weaken the zloty by
narrowing the rate differential and reducing investor appetite
for Polish assets, Kalisz said.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled the bank may
raise rates again in coming months after increasing its
benchmark by 25 basis points to 1.5 percent today. Euro-region
rate setters are concerned oil-driven inflation and faster
economic growth will stoke wage demands.  In Poland, corporate wage growth slowed in May from a 16-
month high. Pay rose 4.1 percent from a year earlier, compared
with 5.9 percent in April, the  Central Statistical Office  said
June 16. Employment growth slowed for a third month, dropping to
3.6 percent.  The central bank risks an “overshoot” if it continues to
raise interest rates,  Andrzej Bratkowski , a member of the rate-
setting Monetary Policy Council, said in a June 15 interview.  “We think that they’ll have to raise rates again and
raising rates will bring inflation back to target,” said Tatha
Ghose, an economist at Commerzbank AG in  London . “We won’t have
too many more rate hikes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  