-- 
Poll Front-Runner Romney Reports $18.3 Million in Fundraising

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-07-06T12:07:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/poll-front-runner-romney-reports-18-3-million-in-fundraising.html
Former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , who polls show is the leading contender for the 2012
Republican presidential nomination, today reported raising $18.3
million for his campaign during the second quarter.  As of June 30, Romney had $12.6 million in the bank, his
campaign said in an e-mailed news release.  “Voters are responding to Mitt Romney’s message that
President Obama’s policies have failed and that we need new
leadership in Washington,” Spencer Zwick, Romney’s national
finance chairman, said in a statement. “Our fundraising for the
second quarter represents the strong support Mitt Romney has
across the country.”  Romney’s campaign had said earlier this month that he
raised $15 million to $20 million during the quarter. His total
is more than four times as much as what other Republicans who
have released their totals have said they collected.  U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas reported that he took
in more than $4.5 million; former Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty raised about $4.2 million; and the campaign of former
Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman  said it collected $4.1 million.  Huntsman’s campaign said its figure included personal money
from the candidate. The campaign declined to disclose the
amount, while saying it was less than half of the total.
Huntsman served as U.S. ambassador to  China  under President
Barack Obama until he quit that post earlier this year.  Campaign Disclosures  Other candidates who have yet to report their totals
include Representative  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota. Bachmann,
who announced her candidacy on June 27, had $2.9 million in her
congressional campaign account as of March 31, all of which
could be used for a presidential run.  Detailed disclosures are due to the  Federal Election
Commission  by July 15.  Romney was scheduled to be in  London  today to raise money
from Americans living there and also planned to meet with
British government officials, the Boston Globe  reported .  Romney raised $60 million in an unsuccessful bid for the
2008 nomination and lent his campaign $45 million more. He lost
the Republican race to Senator  John McCain  of Arizona.  Obama’s campaign has yet to release fundraising figures for
his re-election bid. His campaign announced through Twitter that
it had received money from almost 500,000 donors through June
30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 