-- 
Congress Probes Payments to Gun Smugglers

-- B y   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-07-06T21:54:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/possible-u-s-payments-to-gun-smugglers-probed-by-congress.html
Congressional investigators looking
into a U.S. law enforcement program to track guns shipped
illegally to  Mexico  are examining whether government-paid
informants were involved in smuggling weapons.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a Republican from  California ,
and Senator  Charles Grassley , a Republican from  Iowa , have been
investigating a program run by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives that allowed illegal purchases in the
U.S. in an effort to link guns to Mexican drug cartels.  The lawmakers said they want to know whether suspects
identified in that program were serving as informants for other
law enforcement agencies without ATF’s knowledge.  “The evidence we have gathered raises the disturbing
possibility that the  Justice Department  not only allowed
criminals to smuggle weapons but that taxpayer dollars from
other agencies may have financed those engaging in such
activities,” the two lawmakers wrote in a  letter  to Attorney
General Eric Holder that was released today.  The ATF operation, called Fast and Furious, has prompted
criticism from lawmakers. Holder has said he asked the Justice
Department’s inspector general to investigate.  Two of about 2,000 guns that ATF allowed to be carried away
were found at the Arizona murder scene of U.S. Border Patrol
agent Brian Terry in December 2010, according to a report
released in June by Issa, chairman of the House Oversight and
Government Reform Committee, and Grassley, the top Republican on
the Senate Judiciary Committee.  Assault-Style Weapons  The operation sought to show a connection between straw
buyers of assault-style weapons in the U.S. and Mexican drug
trafficking organizations working on both sides of the border,
according to the report.  Congressional investigators are looking into whether the
Drug Enforcement Administration or  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  paid any informants involved in gun smuggling,
according to a congressional staff member who spoke on condition
of anonymity and wasn’t authorized to discuss the matter
publicly.  Issa and Grassley’s letter to Holder said they had “very
real indications” that the gun traffickers the ATF tried to
identify were “already known to other agencies and may even
have been paid as informants.”  The letter also said acting ATF Director Kenneth Melson
told congressional staff that his agency wasn’t informed about
certain activities of the FBI and DEA. All three agencies are
part of the Justice Department.  Managers Reassigned  Melson told congressional investigators that after public
controversy over the Fast and Furious program, he reviewed
documents in the case that made him “sick to his stomach,”
according to the letter to Holder. Melson said he moved to
reassign every field manager involved with the program after
reading the documents, the letter said.  ATF wanted to provide more information to Congress and was
blocked by Justice Department officials, who took control of
communication with lawmakers and told ATF officials not to
respond, according to the letter.  Chris Jakim, a spokesman for the DEA, referred questions to
the Justice Department.  Tracy Schmaler , a Justice Department
spokeswoman, didn’t return phone calls. Paul Bresson, a
spokesman for the FBI, didn’t return a call.  Continuing Discussions  In response to the lawmakers’ letter, Assistant Attorney
General Ronald Weich wrote that discussions are continuing about
how to provide any information about activities of other law
enforcement agencies that may be related to Fast and Furious.  Melson was originally scheduled to be interviewed by
congressional investigators on July 13 and instead appeared in
meetings on July 3 and July 4, according to the letter. Melson
didn’t inform the Justice Department that he’d spoken with
investigators until after the meetings occurred, the letter
said.  Mexican President Felipe Calderon is trying to reduce
violence tied to organized crime and drug trafficking that has
caused more than 34,000 deaths since he took office in 2006.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Justin Blum  in Washington at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  