-- 
Progressive Packages Home, Auto Coverage to Attract Clients

-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-07-06T15:52:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/progressive-packages-home-auto-coverage-to-attract-clients.html
Progressive Corp. (PGR) , the fourth-largest
U.S. auto insurer, is pushing packages of car and home coverage
over the Internet to attract clients and keep policyholders from
fleeing to competitors.  “We have lost a lot of our customers because we haven’t
been able to meet their growing needs,” John Sauerland,
president of the company’s personal lines group, said yesterday
in an interview. “The more products you can sell to a consumer,
the more likely they are going to stick with you.”  Progressive is competing for auto business with rivals such
as State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. and  Allstate
Corp. (ALL) , which are the largest U.S. home insurers. About 40
percent of U.S. auto policyholders use the same insurer to buy
home coverage, Sauerland said.  Progressive, which relies mostly on vehicle coverage, now
allows Internet customers to get a quote for both car and home
policies at the same time. The residential protection is
provided by third parties. Mayfield Village, Ohio-based
Progressive began the online package offerings as a pilot
program this year and launched an advertising campaign last
week.  Glenn Renwick, chief executive officer of Progressive, has
said that sales growth is being pressured by fewer customers
leaving their carriers and “competitive” prices from rivals.  “There appears to be a general decline in consumer
interest in shopping for auto insurance, from which we are not
immune,” Renwick said in prepared remarks at the insurer’s
annual meeting April 29. The trend is most visible in measures
of traffic to Internet sites, he said.  Allstate agreed in May to purchase online auto-insurance
seller Esurance to compete with Progressive and the Geico unit
of Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  Progressive sells
its online home-and-auto insurance bundles in every state except
for  Florida ,  Alaska , Hawaii and  New Hampshire .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  