-- 
Proposed Tax Code Inflation Change Would Raise $59.6 Billion

-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-07-06T21:51:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/proposed-tax-code-inflation-change-would-raise-59-6-billion-1-.html
Revising the method for figuring
inflation in setting tax brackets, deductions and exemptions
would generate $59.6 billion in revenue to the Treasury between
2012 and 2021, according to an  estimate  from the congressional
Joint Committee on Taxation.  The proposal has arisen in deficit-reduction discussions
involving the Obama administration and congressional leaders.
Those discussions will continue tomorrow when lawmakers meet
with President Barack Obama to negotiate an increase in the
$14.3 trillion debt limit.  Representative Sander Levin, a Michigan Democrat and an
opponent of the proposal, requested the study and released the
estimate today. He said its findings raise questions about the
possible effect of a new inflation calculation.  A change “would place new burdens mainly on the backs of
seniors, middle-income and lower-income Americans,” he said in
a press release.  Lawmakers and the administration are examining the way
inflation is calculated in response to criticism that the
existing method exaggerates how quickly prices increase. The
current system can cause the federal government to make larger
cost-of-living increases than necessary to people receiving
benefits such as Social Security.  Chained Price Index  A “chained” calculation would be more accurate, its
proponents say, because it includes assumptions about how
consumers make changes in purchasing decisions when prices
increase. A chained index was  endorsed  by Obama’s debt
commission last year.  The estimate released today assumes that the change takes
effect in 2013. It would affect tax brackets, the size of the
standard deduction, the size of the personal exemption and other
tax measures tied to inflation.  In 2021 alone, the proposal would cause  tax revenue  to
increase by $12.5 billion compared with existing law, increasing
the average  tax rate  from 21.8 percent to 21.9 percent. Those
with annual incomes between $10,000 and $20,000 would have the
sharpest increase in taxes, 14.5 percent in that year.  That’s because many people in the group would be pushed
into the income tax system if the standard deduction and
personal exemption were smaller.  To contact the reporter on this story: Steven Sloan in
Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net 
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  