-- 
South Korea’s Pyeongchang Beats Munich, Annecy to Host 2018 Winter Games

-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   N i k i   M o o r e
-- 
2011-07-06T22:36:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/pyeongchang-beats-munich-annecy-to-host-2018-winter-olympics.html
Pyeongchang  will host the 2018 Winter
Olympics after beating Munich and Annecy,  France , in its third
bid to bring the event to South  Korea .  The town, located in the Taebaek mountains 130 kilometers
(80 miles) east of Seoul, won in the first round of voting by
International Olympic Committee members yesterday in Durban,
 South Africa . Pyeongchang had lost out on the 2010 and 2014
Winter Games, which went to  Vancouver  and Sochi,  Russia .  Pyeongchang, which used Olympic figure skating champion Kim Yuna and Samsung Electronics Co. Chairman Lee Kun Hee to lobby
support, makes South Korea the second Asian nation to host the
Winter Olympics.  Japan  staged the event in Sapporo in 1972 and
Nagano in 1998.  “I believe Pyeongchang winning the bid will also help
accelerate establishing peace on the Korean peninsula,” South
Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  told reporters in Durban prior to
the vote. “Winter sports aren’t enjoyed widely in Korea or
other parts of Asia. It is my mission to help winter sports be
widely enjoyed in this region.”  Hosting the 2018 Games will directly add 21.1 trillion won
($19.8 billion) to the South Korean economy, Hyundai Research
Institute said in a report published this week. Benefits from
increased tourism and raising the profile of the nation and its
corporate brands will indirectly add a further 43.8 trillion won
to the economy in the 10 years after the Olympics, according to
the report.  Fireworks, Celebrations  “The fact that this was the third time definitely played a
role,” IOC President Jacques Rogge said at a news conference.
“We were impressed with the improvement over the years.”  Pyeongchang received 63 votes in the balloting, with Munich
getting 25 and Annecy seven. A simple majority, 48 votes, was
needed for victory. The award brought fireworks and celebrations
in  South Korea , where it was after midnight.  Pyeongchang has already received investment of a $1.4
billion Alpensia Resort intended to house the IOC hotel and the
media village for the Winter Games. A $3.4 billion project will
upgrade and complete a high-speed train linking the city with
Seoul’s Incheon international airport by late 2017.  The Olympic city will also require six more venues -- an
alpine ski run, two ice hockey rinks, a sliding venue with two
runs and a speedskating oval.  “The city already attracts more than 1.5 million foreign
visitors per year to its winter sports,” Olympic bid committee
communications director Theresa Seung Yun Rah said.  “New Horizons”  Running under the slogan “New Horizons,” Pyeongchang’s
bid highlighted that the world’s most-populous continent has
held only two of the 21 previous  Winter Games .  South Korea, which hosted the 1988  Summer Olympics  in Seoul,
was the fifth-ranked nation at last year’s Winter Games in
Vancouver with 14 medals. Kim’s figure-skating gold and three
championships in speedskating brought a wider audience for
winter sports in South Korea, which in previous Games had the
most success in short-track speedskating.  Each of the three bidders would have been successful as
hosts, an IOC study concluded in May. Pyeongchang received
glowing marks after the assessment of the venues, travel
arrangements, finances, accommodation, transportation and
security.  “Overall, the commission believes the legacy from a 2018
Pyeongchang Games, building on existing legacies from previous
Olympic Winter Games bids, would be significant to further
develop winter sport in  Asia ,” the report said.  Silver Medal  Munich was vying to become the first city to host both the
Summer and Winter Olympics, having staged the 1972 Summer Games.  “Obviously we are disappointed, but in a competition like
this there is no runner up or silver medal,” Jochen Farber,
communications director for the Munich bid, said.  Pyeongchang was the favorite to win, with a 66.17 chance of
success versus 65.83 for Munich, according to an index a week
before the vote by  Gamesbids.com , a website that tracks the
selection process.  “This came as a huge shock, especially the low number of
votes we got,” Pauline Rousseau of the Annecy bid committee
said. “All we can do now is go back and look to see where we
went wrong.”  Pyeongchang offered a compact venue plan, with 13
competition sites linked by road and rail all within 30 minutes
of the athletes’ accommodations, according to the IOC’s report
in May.  As many as 93 percent of Pyeongchang residents supported
the bid, while 91 percent of South Koreans also wanted the
Winter Games, the organizing committee said on its website,
citing local and national surveys.  “Bringing an Olympics to Asia for the first time in 20
years will be a catalyst for winter sports as a whole in Asia,”
Seung Yun Rah said. “It is a huge and robust market, with 650
million people under the age of 25. This is exactly the target
market for sports development: a young and increasingly affluent
population.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in  Seoul  at 
 rkim69@bloomberg.net ;
Niki Moore via the Johannesburg bureau
at   vwessels@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  