-- 
Libyan Rebels Seek Misrata Breakout as NATO Says ‘Game Over’ for Qaddafi

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-07-06T19:31:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/qaddafi-s-bid-to-retake-libya-by-force-has-fallen-apart-nato-aide-says.html
Libyan rebel forces in besieged
Misrata launched their biggest attack in more than a month to
try to break through the government troops entrenched around the
coastal city, as the head of the NATO alliance said that the
“momentum is against” regime leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  Rebel infantry, aided by mortars, advanced across no-man’s
land and seized ground from pro-Qaddafi forces. Previous
attempts have failed to break through government lines close to
the town of Zlitan, west of Misrata.  Rebel leaders said NATO conducted air strikes against
government forces around Zlitan in the past two weeks, and has
used naval gunfire. While NATO jets circled the area today,
there was no sign of their direct engagement in the battle.  By evening, rebels said they were close to Zlitan. “We are
three kilometers away,” said a rebel commander, Hassan Duen.
Asked if they would go on to try and capture Zlitan, he nodded
affirmatively.  “For Qaddafi, it is game over,” NATO Secretary General
Anders Fogh Rasmussen told reporters today at a briefing in
Brussels. “Momentum is against Qaddafi; his economic strength
to wage war against his country is declining.”  The attempt by Qaddafi to retake rebel territory has
“fallen apart” as opposition forces capture key cities and the
alliance maintains its air and sea campaign, Rasmussen said.  Government forces demonstrated they still maintain
firepower around Misrata. Gunfire and impacts from government
Grad rockets began in the early morning and continued in the
west of the Misrata pocket throughout the day.  Rebels Advance  Rebels said they had overrun a series of checkpoints and
camps in the no-man’s land between the western edge of the
pocket and Zlitan, a 30 kilometer gap.  Misrata’s Hikma hospital was full and by late afternoon it
had recorded 13 dead fighters with 24 wounded.  The rebels have launched several offensives across no-man’s
land in recent weeks, each time stopping short of Zlitan and its
main belt of government defenses.  Rasmussen said on July 4 that NATO would continue its
offensive in  Libya  until it meets the goals sanctioned by a
United Nations resolution that authorized military action to
protect civilians.  NATO is under pressure internally as some member
governments face political opposition to the conflict. Norway
announced June 10 that it was withdrawing four of six fighter
jets and the rest by August 1.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization has set three
objectives for Libya: a complete halt to attacks on civilians by
government forces; the withdrawal of those troops to barracks;
and access to humanitarian aid for the people of Libya,
Rasmussen said then.  Qaddafi’s “capability to attack civilians has been
considerably decreased and we consider that a success of our
operation,” Rasmussen said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  