-- 
Queensland Sends Lockyer Out With Sixth Straight State of Origin Title

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-06T14:32:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/queensland-sends-lockyer-out-with-sixth-straight-state-of-origin-title.html
Queensland beat New South Wales 34-24
to secure a record-extending sixth straight State of Origin
rugby league title and send retiring captain Darren Lockyer out
as a winner.  Greg Inglis touched down twice as the Maroons outscored the
Blues by six tries to four last night at Brisbane’s Suncorp
Stadium. Queensland now holds a 16-12 lead in  Australia ’s annual
interstate contest.  Sam Thaiday,  Cameron Smith , Jharal Yow Yeh and Billy Slater
also scored tries for Queensland, which raced out to a 24-0
first-half lead. Johnathan Thurston kicked four conversions.  “I’ve never been so nervous, it’s a relief,” Lockyer, 34,
said in a televised interview with the Nine Network. “It’s a
nice way to finish. It has been a great journey.”  Lockyer is retiring from the sport at the end of the 2011
National Rugby League season, ending his record-setting 17-year
career. He was given a special trophy after the match to honor
his contribution to State of Origin, where he captained the
Maroons in 22 of his 36 games.  “It’s been a hell of a ride,” Lockyer said at the
presentation ceremony before the crowd of 52,498. “I’ll never
forget these times playing for Queensland. It’s been a privilege
to play for you.”  Anthony Minichiello, Akuila Uate, Jarryd Hayne and Greg
Bird touched down for New South Wales, while Jamie Soward kicked
eight points. The Blues, who sent the best-of-three contest to
the decider with an 18-8 win in Sydney last month, last won a
series in 2005.  ‘Shattering’  “It’s pretty shattering,” NSW captain Paul Gallen told
Nine Network. “We came here really confident. We gave them a
head start and they just got too far in front.”  The Blues scored two late first-half tries to pull within
24-10 at the break. Slater touched down in the 65th minute and
Inglis added his second try four minutes later to extend the
lead to 34-10. New South Wales then scored the final 14 points
of the game.  Inglis’s final score, where he fought off four defenders to
power over, lifted him to 12 career tries, tying the Origin
record held by Dale Shearer. Thurston left the game in the 60th
minute with a knee injury following a collision with Ashley
Harrison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  