-- 
Rape as Weapon of War Is UN Focus

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-06T14:28:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/rape-as-weapon-of-war-is-un-focus-after-libyan-woman-s-plight.html
It took a video going “viral” of a
Libyan woman being  dragged  from a Tripoli hotel -- shouting that
she’d been raped for two days by 15 men -- to put a face and
name to a weapon of war that dates back at least to the founding
of ancient  Rome .  Defying social norms that can turn rape victims into
outcasts, Iman al-Obeidi went public with her story. Her
allegations of torture at the hands of soldiers loyal to  Muammar
Qaddafi  spread fast via Facebook and Twitter.  “Iman is publicly hailed as a hero in Benghazi, and there
are discussions about changing attitudes,” Arafat Jamal, the
United Nations refugee agency’s co-coordinator for Libya, said
in an interview from Benghazi.  The worldwide attention given to Obeidi’s plight helped
secure the 29-year-old law graduate safe passage to  Romania  and
shine a spotlight on a horror that dates back to the earliest
armies and continues in war zones such as the Democratic
Republic of Congo.  In Congo, at  least 121 women  were raped over a period of
three days in June as government troops pillaged their village,
the UN human rights office said last week. Local medical reports
say 248 women were raped between June 10 and June 12 in attacks
unleashed in the Sud-Kivu province,  Agence France-Presse 
reported.  U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said
today the U.S. was “gravely disturbed” by reports of the
latest mass rapes. The UN estimates that about 15,000 women and
girls a year are victims of rape in the Congo conflict.  UN Women  The one-year-old United Nations women’s agency, UN Women,
unveils today its first report drawing attention to sexual
violence against women as the International Criminal Court
investigates allegations of mass rapes in Libya.  “Very significant advances in international law in the
past two decades have, for the first time, made it possible to
redress sexual violence crimes,” according to 165-page report
by the agency led by former Chilean President  Michelle Bachelet .
“However, prosecutions are rare.”  A female rape victim of the 1994 Rwanda genocide described
in the UN report how she regretted seeking justice by testifying
in her country’s International Criminal Tribunal. The woman, who
was unnamed in the report, was cited as saying that no good came
from the attention: she received no apology, her fiancé left her
and her house was attacked.  Unreliable Numbers  Proving systematic rape during conflict is problematic.
There is a risk of either underestimating the extent because of
social sigma or overestimating it because of wartime rumors.  Qaddafi is “capable of such acts,” said Karim Mezran, a
political-science professor at Johns Hopkins University in
Bologna,  Italy , and a researcher at Rome’s Center for American
Studies. “Whether he did carry them out is another issue.”  For women in Libya, coming forward may entail the risk of
being murdered by their own families in so-called “ honor
killings,”  which remains one of the deadliest forms of violence
against women and is practiced by closed patriarchal communities
across the globe in places such as Kurdistan and  Pakistan .  “It is very difficult for a woman to openly discuss this
issue, and expect to receive support,” Jamal said. “The social
taboos surrounding the topic certainly play a part.”  War crimes investigators said they do have evidence
implicating the Libyan regime and showing it purchased anti-
impotence drugs as a way to implement it.  Qaddafi Implicated  “We are getting some information that Qaddafi himself
decided to rape, and this is new,” Luis Moreno-Ocampo, chief
prosecutor for the  International Criminal Court  in the  Hague ,
 Netherlands , told reporters in  New York  on June 8.  “The rape is a new aspect of the repression,” he said.
“That is why we had doubts at the beginning, but now we are
more convinced that he decided to punish using rape.”  Aid agencies such as  Doctors without Borders  and  Amnesty
International  have found no first-hand evidence in Libya that
rapes are systematic and being used as part of war strategy.
Amnesty said its investigations in eastern Libya, in Misrata and
along the Tunisian border have not turned up significant hard
evidence supporting allegations of rapes by Qaddafi’s forces.  “This does not mean the allegation is incorrect, only that
 Amnesty International  has not been able to obtain conclusive
evidence,” said James Lynch, an Amnesty spokesman for the
 Middle East  and North Africa.  ‘Deeply Concerned’  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said June 16 that
the U.S. is “deeply concerned by reports of wide-scale rape”
in  Libya . “We are also troubled by reports of sexual violence
used by governments to intimidate and punish protesters seeking
democratic reforms across the Middle East and North Africa.”  In 2008, the U.S. overcame resistance from  China ,  Russia ,
 Indonesia  and  Vietnam  to claim a 15-0 UN Security Council
victory for the first resolution to recognize conflict-related
sexual violence and say rape and other such acts can be
considered war crimes.  The UN Human Rights office said the effectiveness of the
resolution would have to be measured in places such as Congo. UN
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon was asked to report yearly on the
implementation of the resolution, under which violators could be
hit with UN sanctions.  Three years on, the latest evidence indicates sexual
violence hasn’t diminished and, if anything, is a much more
entrenched and pervasive problem than previously thought. Last
year, Ban appointed a special envoy on sexual violence during
armed conflict, Margot Wallstrom, who has called Congo “the
rape capital” of the world.  War Crimes  A recent study suggest the UN may be underestimating the
extent of rape in the Congo conflict.  Every day, 1,152 women are raped in the DRC, making it the
worst place in the world to be a woman, according to a report
published in the June edition of the American Journal of  Public
Health . The estimates, which dwarf UN figures, are based on a
2007 national survey of 3,436 women.  As many as 1.8 million Congolese women have been raped in
their lifetime and about 400,000 in the past 12 months, the
report estimated. That is a 26-times the UN figure of 15,000
rape victims in the same 2006-2007 period.  More than 387 rapes that took place during a three-day
attack in eastern Congo last year may constitute war crimes and
crimes against humanity, the UN said today in a separate report
released today in Kinshasa, the capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  