-- 
Regulators Lack Power to Shut Down Failing Banks, Basel Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-07-06T13:56:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/regulators-lack-power-to-wind-down-failing-banks-basel-says.html
Bank regulators need greater powers
to close failing banks in an orderly fashion so that taxpayers
don’t have to bear the costs of rescuing lenders during a
crisis, global regulators said.  Governments need to “accelerate” changes to national
rules to prevent banks from becoming too big to fail, ensure
that lenders’ essential operations can continue in a crisis, and
require that bank creditors contribute to shoring up firms’
finances before public money is used, the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision  said today on its website.  “Putting in place mechanisms that will allow financial
institutions to be shut down will necessitate a significant
restructuring of the banking landscape as we know it,” Sony
Kapoor, managing director of policy group Re-Define Europe, said
in an e-mail.  Banks are warning that plans by regulators for new rules to
end the need for bailouts during a crisis may harm the economic
recovery.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief,
published plans in January to impose losses on failed banks’
senior bondholders -- a step that lenders including  Citigroup
Inc.  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  have said may make it more
expensive for banks to attract funding.  Barnier, who leads work on financial regulation for the
European Commission, has also proposed that regulators should be
empowered to impose “structural changes” on firms to ensure
they can be closed down in a crisis.  ‘Negative Impact’  Bailing in a banks’ senior bondholders is likely to have a
“negative impact both on pricing and market depth for bank
debt” Citigroup said in a  note  to the commission that was
published on the regulator’s website. Debt writedowns “will
have implications for the funding markets,” Goldman said in its
written response to the commission’s plans.  Regulators’ arrangements for dealing with  bank failures 
continue to differ in terms of “legal powers, the ranking of
depositor and other creditor claims, and the capacity of
national authorities to share information,” the Basel committee
said. Such differences may undermine efforts for an orderly
shut-down of a failing bank, it said.  “Cross-border resolution will be complicated until we have
an internationally binding resolution regime,” said Monika
Mars, a PricewaterhouseCoopers AG director in Zurich.  “The Basel committee has realized that that is nirvana,
and so it is trying instead to get as close as possible to that
through national cooperation -- so that national laws at least
do not directly contradict each other,” Mars said.  Systemic Firms  Lobby groups representing some of the world’s biggest
financial companies last month called on U.S. regulators to
delay introducing rules that would govern resolutions of
systemically risky firms.  The  Federal Reserve  and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
should clarify what constitutes a “credible” plan for
unwinding a complex firm before requiring companies to file so-
called living wills that would set out how they could be closed
in a crisis, six groups including the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association and the Institute of International
Bankers said in a letter to the regulators.  “Any credible living will need to be actionable over a
weekend and for this to be possible banks will need to downsize
and simplify their legal structures enormously,” Kapoor said.  Living Wills  Regulators “appear to be at different stages of developing
recovery and resolution plans for systemically important
financial institutions,” the Basel committee said. “In view of
the importance of these plans for systemic stability, national
authorities will need to move forward quickly in this area.”  Global watchdogs are seeking ways to prevent any repeat of
the government rescues of lenders that were judged necessary
following the September 2008 bankruptcy filing of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  “The U.K has had a first exercise of requiring its banks
to draw up living wills, other big banks in other countries have
not yet done it to the same extent,” Mars said. “These
requirements are not yet uniform and the usefulness of some of
this remains to be tested, hopefully not in the near future,”
she said.  The Financial Stability Board, which brings together
finance ministry officials, central bank governors and
regulators from the Group of 20 countries, will this month
publish its own draft proposals on bank resolution, Bank of
England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker   said  in a speech on June 29.
Tucker chairs an FSB working group that is examining how bank
bondholders should contribute to shoring up lenders in crisis.  Today’s report assesses how well nations have implemented
recommendations that the Basel committee made in March last year
on how to ensure that bank failures can be handled in an orderly
way.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 