-- 
Researcher IFPRI Develops Gauge of Excessive Corn-Price Swings

-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-06T15:40:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/researcher-ifpri-develops-gauge-of-excessive-corn-price-swings.html
The  International Food Policy
Research Institute  developed a gauge of price swings for corn,
wheat and soybeans that it said can help policy makers identify
“excessive volatility.”  The so-called Excessive  Food Price Variability  Early
Warning System might also be used to trigger the release of
global emergency food reserves, Maximo Torero, markets and trade
unit director at the Washington-based researcher, said on a
conference call today.  “This is not a way to define excessive speculation,” he
said. “This is a way to define excessive price volatility. Many
people have been talking about price volatility, but there has
not been a clear measure.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has blamed speculators for
driving up food prices and made commodity regulation a priority
for the country’s presidency in 2011 of the Group of 20
countries. Corn, wheat and soybeans all reached the highest
levels since 2008 in Chicago trading this year.  IFPRI’s gauge determines the statistical probability of a
price move on a particular day, based on trading in the prior 60
sessions, Carlos Martins Filho, a senior research fellow at the
 institute  who helped develop the model, said on the call. If the
chance is 5 percent or less, the move is deemed extreme or
abnormal, he said.  ‘First Step’  “Our goal is here to define a clear method and metric to
define when commodities are experiencing clear higher
volatility,” Martins said. “You first have to identify,
consistently and in a very transparent manner, periods of
extreme price volatility. It’s a first step. It’s not a tool
that will lead to any policy prescription.”  G-20 farm ministers last month agreed to study setting up
emergency reserves for food-deficient countries. IFPRI’s gauge
may serve along with national criteria as a mechanism to decide
when to tap those stockpiles, Torero said.  “We are using futures prices in the largest commodity
exchange, the Chicago Board of Trade, to discover price
abnormalities,” he said. “These are the prices that later on
will be translated to  developing countries .”  IFPRI counted the French and Norwegian governments, the
 World Bank , the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and
confectioner Mars Inc. among its more than  90 donors  in 2009,
according to the researcher’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 