-- 
Safeguards Scant for U.S. Investors as Registered Advisers Increase by 39%

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   O d y
-- 
2011-07-06T13:06:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/rias-offer-little-investor-protection-beyond-fiduciary-label.html
Arnold and Cheryl Levy were a year
away from retiring when Jeffrey Liskov, acting as their
registered investment adviser, took a large position during July
2009 in a speculative fund with Arnold’s retirement money.  The Levys were dealing with an ill family member at the
time and the trade escaped their notice until December of that
year when Liskov alerted them to losses on the fund, the Levys
said in a telephone interview. According to court filings they
lost about $85,000 on the  ProShares UltraShort MSCI Emerging
Markets (EEV)  exchange-traded fund, which placed bets that foreign
stocks would drop.  “We were just beside ourselves,” said Cheryl, 67. She and
Arnold, 69, of Stoughton, Massachusetts, felt they could trust
Liskov’s judgment, she said. Actually, Liskov was sliding toward
bankruptcy, and they had to absorb a 44 percent loss on the
fund.  Registered investment advisers -- firms that employ about
280,000 individual representatives nationwide -- are billed as
an alternative to traditional brokers because they are legally
bound to a fiduciary duty to put their clients’ interests first,
and typically charge fees instead of commissions. Brokers, who
number about 632,000, are held to a suitability standard that
their advice meet clients’ needs at the time a product is sold.  In practice, the lightly regulated RIA industry -- where
low barriers to entry helped swell membership by 39 percent in
six years -- may offer few protections for investors who wind up
with incompetent advisers.  No Guarantee  Registering as an RIA “is just notifying regulators that
you are holding yourself out as a professional  investment
adviser , and that doesn’t necessarily mean that you’re good, or
ethical, or competent,” said Sheryl Garrett, founder of Shawnee
Mission, Kansas-based  Garrett Planning Network Inc. , a network
of fee-only financial planners.  Inappropriate investments, high fees and an inability to
collect on legal awards are some of the problems investors may
face with registered investment advisers, according to attorneys
such as Angela Magary, a Boston-based securities lawyer, who
have represented clients in arbitration or court actions against
their advisers.  There are more than 14,000 independent RIA firms, which
typically manage investments for individuals and may also
provide related financial-planning services, controlling about
$1.5 trillion of assets, according to  Aite Group , the Boston-
based research firm.  Attracting Attention  The industry gained new attention in January, when the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission recommended that traditional
brokers should be held to the same fiduciary standard that
applies to RIAs.  “The RIA business has gotten a big reputational boost in
the last year,” because of a heightened focus on its fiduciary
status, said  Andrew Stoltmann , a Chicago-based securities
lawyer, who has represented more than 700 investors against
brokerage firms.  There are no industrywide figures available for customer
complaints against their RIAs. More than one in 10 RIAs report
they have been the subject of a disciplinary action, according
to a study by the Washington-based Sunlight Foundation, a
nonprofit firm that advocates for open government. Such actions
may include being convicted of a felony or making false
statements to regulators.  Tally of Trouble  Customers filed 3,208  complaints  against their brokers in
2010, according to the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority,
the self-funded regulator for the securities industry. Customer
complaints for the RIA industry don’t go through one centralized
entity and may be resolved informally between an investor and a
firm, through arbitration, or through court action.  The SEC, which generally investigates possible violations
of  securities law , took 113  enforcement actions  against
investment advisers or investment companies in 2010. The
commission doesn’t track aggregate fines against the industry.  Most investment advisers serve their clients well, said
David Tittsworth, executive director of the Washington-based
 Investment Adviser Association , a lobbying group for SEC-
registered advisers.  “I don’t think there’s a silver bullet, but I think the
model of fiduciary duty and disclosure of conflicts of interest
is a very good model,” he said.  Registered advisers have gained ground with investors,
according to Alois Pirker, research director at Aite. Since 2007
independent RIAs have gathered an additional 2 percent of the
$13.4 trillion  wealth-management  market, bringing their share to
about 11 percent, while brokers from the largest full-service
firms have lost about 3 percent. That shift may be driven in
part by traditional brokers fleeing large financial firms whose
reputations were damaged by the 2008-2009 financial crisis.  Independent View  Alan Harter, 41, left  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney in
January to start his own advisory firm in part because his
clients expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest
at his former employer.  “It’s very hard for a large broker-dealer organization to
treat 18,000 brokers as fiduciaries,” because the range of
experience of its brokers may vary widely, said Harter, managing
director of McLean, Virginia-based Pactolus Private Wealth
Management, which he founded in January and which provides
 investment-management  and financial-planning services to
families with $25 million or more in assets. Harter and his
firm, which serves 32 families, have no complaints or related
events listed with regulators.  Performance Record  Advisers are not required to disclose their performance
history to prospective clients, said Ted Laurenson, a  New York- 
based partner at  McDermott Will & Emery .  “Most advisers are going to say, ‘We customize the
portfolio to you, so we don’t have a composite of returns to
show you,’” said Kristi Kuechler, former president of the
 Institute for Private Investors , a membership group of high-net-
worth investors. Some use that line to evade a request for
performance history, she said.  When investors do run into problems with an RIA, they often
decide to accept losses rather than face expensive, protracted
legal action, said Laura Corsell, a partner with  Montgomery,
McCracken, Walker & Rhoads  in Philadelphia.  Many advisers include arbitration clauses in their
agreements with clients that require customers to bring any
complaints through either the  American Arbitration Association 
or  JAMS  private arbitration, according to C. Thomas Mason, a
securities and employee benefits lawyer in Tucson,  Arizona . The
costs are “an enormous deterrent,” Mason said. Standard
initial filing fees for AAA range from $775 to $8,200 on claims
of up to $5 million, and subsequent fees can top $70,000,
depending upon complexity, length and the arbitrator’s hourly
rate, Mason said.  Ease of Complaints  “More than 90 percent of the complaints we see are against
brokers and broker-dealers,” rather than against advisers, said
Brian Hamburger, an Englewood, New Jersey-based attorney and the
founder of  MarketCounsel , which advises RIAs and brokers on
compliance. That’s in part because Finra makes it easier to
bring complaints against a broker, “not because the brokerage
model or the RIA model attracts a different caliber or class of
people,” he said.  The Levys went to court against Liskov in August 2010. They
claim in legal filings they lost about $149,000 on positions
taken by their adviser, including the exchange-traded fund.
Liskov had invested them conservatively through the worst of the
stock market’s fall during 2008 and 2009, the Levys said in a
telephone interview. Arnold, who works for a car dealership, has
delayed retirement in part because of the investment losses, he
said. Cheryl lost her job as an administrative assistant in 2010
and is currently unemployed.  Nothing Left  Liskov filed for bankruptcy in February of this year, which
halted the progress of the lawsuit. Arnold Levy said he and his
wife decided not to pursue the case in part because the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service filed a tax lien on Liskov’s home,
which happened in 2010, according to the  Plymouth County
Registry of Deeds . Magary, their attorney, told the Levys the
lien potentially would leave nothing for them.  Liskov had alerted the Levys to the initial purchase of the
fund in a voicemail in July 2009, he said in court filings, and
they were aware of the fund’s risks, said Albert Zabin, an
attorney for Liskov, who lives in Plymouth,  Massachusetts . He’s
no longer registered as an investment adviser representative,
according to the SEC  website .  Capital Standard  Ordinary brokers must meet certain  capital requirements 
that vary based on the size of their business and on the amount
and type of trading they conduct, according to the SEC.  “If a large brokerage firm defrauds you, at least they
have the money to pay you back,” said Brian Smiley, an Atlanta-
based securities lawyer.  There are no net capital requirements for SEC-registered
advisers, said Robert Plaze, associate director for regulation
of the division of investment management for the SEC.  “If a broker doesn’t pay a Finra arbitration award, they
get their registration suspended,” said Jane Stafford, a  Kansas
City , Missouri-based securities lawyer. If advisers don’t pay,
they “may have to disclose that they have an unsatisfied
judgment against them, but no one’s going to shut them down.”  Advisers must generally register with the SEC if they
manage $25 million or more and register with the states in which
they do business if they manage less. That threshold will rise
to $100 million by June 28, 2012, shifting about 3,200 advisers
from SEC to state oversight.  Fees and Commissions  Advisers may have fewer conflicts of interest than brokers
because most don’t accept commissions, said  Barbara Roper ,
director of investor protection at the Washington-based  Consumer
Federation of America . More than 95 percent of federally
registered investment advisers charge clients a fee based on a
percent of assets under management, and about 9 percent receive
commissions, according to a January  SEC report  on the
investment-advice industry. Most broker-dealers receive
commissions, the report said.  “We’re still seeing people charging fees that are way too
high,” in spite of the industry’s move away from commissions,
said Liz Weston, author of “The 10 Commandments of Money.”
“We have a problem of an industry that’s geared toward making
money more than geared toward serving clients.”  Adviser fees generally range from less than 1 percent to 2
percent of assets under management and may vary based on the
size of a client’s account. Those may not include separate
hourly fees or charges for underlying investments.  Stocks and Bonds  Charging fees based on assets under management may also
create a conflict of interest if it encourages the adviser to
concentrate clients in higher-fee or higher-risk investments,
said Michael Engdahl, an attorney and associate professor of
financial services and business law at Edinboro University in
Edinboro,  Pennsylvania .  Engdahl is representing investors in arbitration against an
RIA firm that directed clients into stock portfolios rather than
bond portfolios, which had lower fees. The firm had invested
Engdahl’s retiree clients 100 percent in stocks, he said. This
year advisers have had to include a plain-English brochure
detailing their fee schedules in regulatory filings with the
SEC. The brochures are available on the SEC website.  Many investors choose an adviser through referrals, said
Mark Matson, an adviser based in Mason,  Ohio . They should check
an adviser’s  disciplinary record  with the SEC and state
regulators, and should interview multiple candidates before
investing, said the CFA’s Roper. There are no “surefire” steps
to guarantee an adviser is competent, she said.  What’s Disclosed  Arbitration awards or legal settlements must be disclosed
on an adviser’s ADV form, which RIAs file to register with the
SEC or with states, if they reflect on the integrity of the
adviser, said the SEC’s Plaze.  “The ADV questions don’t pretend to ask every single thing
that may be disclosable to clients,” said MarketCounsel’s
Hamburger.  Reports that include customer disputes with investment
adviser representatives are available on the SEC website.  Investors should also ask about the number of clients who
have left the firm in the past year, and ask for referrals to
former clients, Kuechler said.  “At the end of the day, whether a person is a broker or
whether they’re an RIA, I think that 99 percent of us really
want to do the right thing by our clients,” said Susan John, an
adviser based in Wolfeboro,  New Hampshire , and chair of the
 National Association of Personal Financial Advisors .  “Of course, there’s always that 1 percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Ody in New York 
 eody@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at 
 rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 