-- 
Trichet Fights a War on Two Fronts

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-07-07T11:05:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/trichet-fights-war-on-two-fronts-as-second-ecb-rate-increase-of-2011-looms.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet is fighting a war on two fronts as he seeks to
contain price pressures while the Greek crisis threatens to blow
the euro area apart.  The ECB will raise  interest rates  for a second time this
year, increasing the benchmark by 25 basis points to 1.5
percent, when council members meet in Frankfurt today, according
to all 55 economist forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. The
central bank may increase borrowing costs further in the fourth
quarter, according to a separate survey.  Trichet is at odds with European leaders over how to
contain the debt crisis, saying it’s up to nations to plug
budget gaps as policy makers fight price gains. While the ECB
has supported lenders with unlimited cash, authorities are
struggling to restore investor confidence.  Portugal  was cut to
junk by Moody’s Investors Service on July 5 on concern the
country will need to follow  Greece  in seeking more aid.  “Trichet has drawn a line in the sand on Greece and he’s
now focusing on the day job,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief
European economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London. “The ECB has done more than governments have to prop up
the euro area and it really is losing patience with political
leaders. It’s up to them to fix the problem.”  ‘Critical Phase’  The ECB will announce its decision at 1:45 p.m. and
Trichet, whose term ends on October 31, holds a briefing 45
minutes later. The  Bank of England  kept its key rate at 0.5
percent today, as predicted by economists in a separate survey.  The euro was at $1.4284 as of 1:03 p.m. in  Frankfurt , down
0.2 percent on the day. The currency has shed 2.8 percent
against the dollar over the past month.  European finance ministers earlier this month authorized an
8.7 billion-euro ($12 billion) loan payout to Greece in an
attempt to avert the region’s first sovereign default. Standard
& Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have both indicated they would cut
Greece to default if leaders went ahead with a plan to ask
creditors to roll over expiring Greek bonds into new debt.  Trichet met with Greek Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos
in Frankfurt today, according to the  Finance Ministry  in  Athens .  “We’re entering a more critical phase” and there’s “a
lot of uncertainty in the market,”  Christopher Pissarides ,
professor at the  London School of Economics , told Bloomberg
Television in an interview in Brussels yesterday. The ECB “can
afford to wait a little longer, to make it easier for countries
like Greece, Portugal and the periphery that are going deeper
into a recession because of these debt problems.”  Waning Confidence  While leaders are still seeking ways to fight the crisis,
 Europe ’s recovery is already losing momentum. Services and
manufacturing growth slowed more than estimated in June and
economic confidence weakened. In  Germany , Europe’s largest
economy which has powered the region’s recovery, investor
sentiment dropped to a 2 1/2 year low last month.  Weaker growth may help curb price pressures and prompt the
ECB to raise interest rates less aggressively than investors and
economists initially estimated, said  Julian Callow , chief
European economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London .  “This may in fact be Trichet’s last interest-rate
increase,” he said. “It’s not just Greece; the sands are
shifting in the global economy under the ECB’s feet.”  Rate ‘Appetite’  The ECB last month forecast euro-region growth to slow to
1.7 percent next year from 1.9 percent in 2011. The inflation
rate may fall below its 2 percent ceiling in 2012, averaging 1.7
percent, the central bank estimated. In June, consumer prices
rose 2.7 percent from a year earlier.  Policy makers are concerned that surging energy and
commodity costs will spark a wage-price spiral, further
entrenching inflation. Trichet on June 30 called for “strong
vigilance” on price pressures, a term used in the past to
signal an imminent rate increase.  Investors will be looking for clues in Trichet’s language
to gauge the central bank’s future interest-rate path. Carsten Brzeski, senior economist at ING Group in Brussels, said that it
could be “premature” for markets to “price in a pause
following this week’s expected hike.”  “It is sometimes said that one should leave off with an
appetite,” he said in an e-mailed note. “However, we don’t
believe this applies to the ECB. When it comes to normalizing
rates, the ECB still seems too hungry to stop.”  ‘Game of Poker’  Trichet may also face questions over the ECB’s collateral
policy. Banks can currently obtain as much money as they need
for up to three months against eligible assets including
 government bonds . ECB policy makers have said they may no longer
accept Greek debt as collateral if the country defaults.  Moody’s downgrade of Portuguese debt to Ba2, below
investment grade, may put further pressure on banks holding
those assets and exacerbate the standoff between the ECB and
politicians.  It’s a “game of poker,” said Christian Schulz, an
economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co in London, who used to
work at the ECB. “The ECB knows it’s the last line of defense
in the  euro zone  but it really is up to the front lines, in
other words the governments, to do their job.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  