-- 
RIM Avoiding Appointing Independent Chair, Glass Lewis Says

-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-07-07T15:08:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/rim-avoiding-independent-chair-commitment-glass-lewis-says-1-.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) ’s decision to
study the overhaul of its management structure to avoid a
shareholder vote next week indicates it’s avoiding a commitment
to appoint an independent chair,  Glass Lewis  & Co. said.  “The appointment of independent board leadership does not
require further study, but rather concrete action,” Dimitri
Zagoroff and Marian Macindoe, analysts with the San Francisco-
based proxy adviser firm, wrote in a report. Glass Lewis advises
investors that manage more than $15 trillion on proxy voting.  Northwest & Ethical Investments LP had proposed a split in
the chairman and chief executive officer roles at the Waterloo,
Ontario-based company, where  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis 
are both co-CEOs and co-chairmen. That proposal was endorsed by
Glass Lewis and Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., another
proxy adviser, before RIM said on June 30 that NEI had agreed to
withdraw the proposal.  In return, RIM said it will establish a committee of
independent directors to study its board structure, the merits
of a lead director versus a chair and the “business necessity”
for the company’s co-CEOs to hold “significant” board-level
titles. RIM has come under pressure to shake up its management
as the BlackBerry smartphone maker loses market share to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and handset makers that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system.  RIM rose 79 cents, or 2.9 percent, to $28.51 at 11:06 a.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The stock had
dropped 52 percent this year before today.  “While we commend the board for actively engaging with NEI
in an attempt to reach a mutually agreeable solution, we are
underwhelmed with the board’s continued avoidance of a
commitment to appoint an independent chairman,” Zagoroff and
Macindoe wrote in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  