-- 
Ringgit Weakens on Slowdown Risk, Renewed Europe Debt Concern

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-07-06T08:07:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/ringgit-weakens-on-slowdown-risk-renewed-europe-debt-concern.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit weakened for a
second day as Europe’s debt crisis damped investor appetite and
signs of slowing economic growth reduced the chance of more
interest-rate increases in the Southeast Asian country.  The currency dropped after Moody’s Investors Service cut
Portugal’s credit rating to below investment grade on concern it
will follow Greece in seeking a second international bailout.
Signs of a slowdown in global growth are complicating Malaysia’s
efforts to fight inflation, with policy makers meeting tomorrow
to review borrowing costs. Exports increased 5.4 percent in May
from a year earlier, after an 11.1 percent gain in April, the
trade ministry said yesterday. Bonds were steady.  “The  market sentiment  is affected by what’s happening in
 Europe ,” said Hasdi Mamat, a foreign-exchange trader at Bank
Muamalat Malaysia Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur. “The slowdown we have
seen in recent data is making it less clear-cut for central
banks to raise  interest rates .”  The ringgit declined 0.1 percent to 3.0105 per dollar as of
4 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The currency fell 1.9 percent during May and June.  Moody’s lowered Portugal’s rating to Ba2 from Baa1, with a
negative outlook. The move followed a report the rating company
issued yesterday that said  China ’s regional authorities’ bank
loans were understated versus the official data published by the
state auditor.  Rate-Rise Predicted  Bank Negara Malaysia  will raise its overnight rate by a
quarter of a percentage point to 3.25 percent tomorrow,
according to 10 of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Five
expect no change.  Local banks are charging each other 30 basis points, or 0.3
percentage point, more than the policy rate for three-month
loans, according to the  Kuala Lumpur  interbank offered rate,
signaling expectations for higher interest rates and bank
reserve requirements. Rate-swap forwards show traders are
pricing in a 45 basis-point increase in lending rates between
September and June 2012.  The yield on the 4.262 percent government bonds due
September 2016 was unchanged at 3.51 percent, according to Bursa
Malaysia. The treasury is scheduled to sell more of the 2016
securities in an auction later this month, according to its sale
calendar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 