-- 
Roger Clemens Perjury Trial Defense May Focus on Single Government Witness

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/roger-clemens-perjury-trial-defense-may-focus-on-single-government-witness.html
Roger Clemens , the former New York
Yankees pitcher, will seek to sow doubt among jurors that he
lied to Congress about drug use by attacking the credibility of
the only eyewitness against him and denying he had been injected
with performance-enhancing substances.  Legal arguments made before jury selection, set to begin
today in federal court in Washington, show a defense focused
almost exclusively on Brian McNamee, Clemens’s former trainer
and the government’s chief witness. Clemens, who admits being
injected by McNamee, said he thought he was receiving vitamins
and other permissible drugs.  A congressional investigation into the use of performance
enhancing drugs in Major League Baseball concluded the record
seven-time Cy Young Award winner used banned substances toward
the end of his 24-year career. Prosecutors said about 45
witnesses will support their contention that Clemens knowingly
lied about drug use in a congressional interview and a public
hearing in February 2008. Clemens has denied wrongdoing.  “A lot will come down to McNamee and whether the jury buys
his story and thinks he’s credible,” said P.J. Meitl, a
criminal defense lawyer at Bryan Cave LLP. In a 2007 study,
Meitl found just six defendants in the past 60 years who went to
jail for charges related to lying to Congress.  Probe by Congress  Clemens, 48, is charged with one count of obstructing a
congressional investigation, three counts of making false
statements and two counts of perjury. If convicted on all
charges, he faces a $1.5 million fine and as long as 30 years in
prison. Opening statements are scheduled for next week.  The trial, expected to last four to six weeks, will feature
testimony from Clemens’s wife, former congressional
investigators and  Major League Baseball  players, including ex-
Yankees teammates Andrew Pettitte and Chuck Knoblauch, as well
as an unidentified former player who the government said
“elected not to use performance enhancing drugs.”  Clemens denied drug use since former U.S. Senator  George Mitchell  released a report on steroids in Major League Baseball
on Dec. 13, 2007, that named Clemens and 85 other players.
Clemens, in 2008 testimony to Congress, repeatedly denied ever
using banned substances.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  opened an inquiry after
the committee’s leaders told then-U.S. Attorney General Michael Mukasey in writing that Clemens may have lied under oath.  Steroids, HGH  Clemens’s denials were contradicted by McNamee, who said he
injected the athlete with steroids and HGH, then-House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee Chairman Henry Waxman and former
ranking committee Republican  Tom Davis  told Mukasey. Pettitte,
meanwhile, told the committee that Clemens admitted in 1999 or
2000 that he used HGH, they said.  Clemens testified that McNamee injected him with only
vitamin B-12 and the painkiller Lidocaine. Pettitte, who played
alongside Clemens with the Yankees and  Houston Astros ,
“misremembers” a conversation they had about HGH, Clemens
said. HGH is considered a performance-enhancing drug because of
its ability to grow muscle and aid recovery after training.  McNamee’s lawyer, Richard Emery, didn’t respond immediately
to e-mail and phone messages seeking comment yesterday.  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, said in an April 21
court hearing that the entire defense theory is that McNamee
lied to Congress and to prosecutors.  “ Brian McNamee  is conning everybody and has been from the
beginning,” Hardin said.  McNamee Evidence  Arguments between defense lawyers and prosecutors before
U.S. District Judge Reggie Walton yesterday centered on evidence
and testimony related to McNamee.  Prosecutors want Pettitte and ex-Yankees Knoblauch and Mike Stanton to tell jurors about the performance-enhancing drug
injections they said McNamee gave them.  Walton, who said he’d rule on the issue during trial, said
in court such testimony may be too prejudicial.  “The jury may say ‘Well, if they knew what they were
taking from McNamee then why wouldn’t Clemens not know what he
was getting?’” Walton said.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Steven Durham called it a “central
issue of proof” similar to the government’s case against former
baseball player  Barry Bonds , in which a judge allowed such
testimony.  Walton said the fact McNamee will testify is a critical
difference.  Bonds’ trainer,  Greg Anderson , refused to take the stand
and was jailed for contempt. Bonds was found guilty in April of
obstructing a federal probe into steroids. Jurors failed to
reach a unanimous decision on three perjury charges.  Rape Investigation  The government is also seeking to limit evidence regarding
a 2001  St. Petersburg ,  Florida , rape investigation where McNamee
was interviewed by police. McNamee made false statements in the
course of that probe, prosecutors said in a court filing.  Clemens shouldn’t be allowed “to inflame the jury” by
bringing up “long-off, uncharged allegations of sexual
assault,” prosecutors argued. McNamee was never arrested or
charged with any offense.  Hardin said in court yesterday the Florida probe could
become relevant as the defense seeks to cast doubt on McNamee’s
testimony.  “The incident in Florida guided and led McNamee to the
full course of conduct being alleged here,” Hardin said.  Walton said he found the connection of the rape case to the
perjury charges “tenuous.”  Clemens, a right-hander known as “the Rocket,” pitched
for the Yankees,  Boston Red Sox , Astros and  Toronto Blue Jays .
During his 24-year major league career, he won 354 games, ninth
in major league history, and had 4,672 strikeouts, ranking third
all-time.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in U.S. District Court for the District of
Columbia at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  