-- 
Samsung Electronics Second-Quarter Profit Drops on LCD Slump

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-07-07T08:04:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/samsung-electronics-second-quarter-profit-drops-on-flat-screen-sales-slump.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
largest maker of televisions, posted a 26 percent drop in
second-quarter profit after a slump in sales of flat screens
masked a surge in demand for smartphones and tablet computers.  Operating profit in the three months ended June fell to
about 3.7 trillion won ($3.5 billion), compared with 5.01
trillion won a year earlier, the Suwon, South Korea-based
company said in a statement today, without giving an
explanation. That compared with the 3.8 trillion won average of
25 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Flat-panel business probably had a loss for a second
consecutive quarter as TV makers held back purchasing displays,
according to six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News. That
damped earnings at the company, which is counting on the new
Galaxy smartphone and a bigger tablet computer to take on  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  and revive earnings.  “Overall demand for technology products has been very
weak,” said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan
BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which oversees about $29
billion. “If demand for tablets and 3-D TVs recovers, the panel
business can turn around fast.”  Samsung shares dropped 2 percent to 880,000 won at the 3:00
p.m. close of trading in Seoul, while the benchmark Kospi index
gained 0.4 percent. The stock has fallen 7.3 percent this year.  Sales rose 2.9 percent to 39 trillion won.  Divisional Earnings  Samsung’s display division, which makes flat panels for
televisions and computer monitors, likely had an operating loss
of 73.5 billion won, compared with an 880 billion won profit a
year earlier, according to the median of a survey of six
analysts by Bloomberg News. Sales probably fell about 11
percent, according to the survey.  Operating profit at Samsung’s TV-making unit may have
dropped 53 percent to 168 billion won, according to the survey.  A glut in the liquid-crystal display market may persist
until the first half of 2012 as TV makers keep high inventory
and panel manufacturers increase output, Seo Won Seok, a Seoul-
based analyst at NH Investment, said in a June 7 report.  Shipments of large-sized LCD panels will grow by 14 percent
in 2011, compared with a 23 percent increase in 2010, on weaker
demand for TVs and computer monitors, research company IHS
ISuppli said May 16.  Semiconductor Business  Profit at the semiconductor division probably fell 33
percent to 1.96 trillion won, according to the Bloomberg News
survey. Sales may have risen to 10 trillion won from 9.5
trillion a year ago.  The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM fell 30
percent in the second quarter, according to data from Taipei-
based Dramexchange Technology Inc., operator of Asia’s largest
spot market for semiconductors.  DRAM chips are used to store data temporarily to help
devices run multiple programs at the same time on computers.  Personal-computer shipments will grow at a slower pace than
previously forecast as consumers reach for Apple Inc.’s iPad and
other tablet computers,  Gartner Inc. (IT)  said in March. Gartner
lowered its projection for worldwide shipments this year to
387.8 million units, or 10.5 percent growth, from an earlier
projection of 15.9 percent growth.  Demand for higher-priced chips used in mobile devices and
servers, as well as application processors for smartphones, may
help Samsung weather the downturn, NH’s Seo said.  Profit at the telecommunications unit likely more than
doubled to 1.5 trillion won, according to the survey. Sales may
have gained 32 percent to 11.62 trillion won.  Smartphone Demand  The company, which aims to sell 60 million smartphones this
year, is estimated to have shipped 19.2 million units of such
handsets in the second quarter, Charles Park, a Hong Kong-based
analyst for Mizuho Securities  Asia , said in a June 24 report.  Samsung’s global smartphone sales rose more than fourfold
to 10.8 million units in the first quarter on the popularity of
Android devices, making it the fourth-biggest seller of
smartphones, according to research firm IDC Corp.  Helped by sales of Galaxy devices and lower-priced models,
Samsung, the No. 2 mobile-phone maker in the world, will further
narrow the gap with the market-leader Nokia OJY by the fourth
quarter, NH’s Seo said in the report.  Samsung’s share in global smartphone market in the first
quarter jumped to 10.8 percent from 4.3 percent a year earlier,
while Nokia’s share slipped to 24.3 percent from 38.8 percent,
according to IDC.  Samsung unveiled a new tablet computer with a larger screen
than the existing Galaxy Tab and an update to its Galaxy S
smartphone in February. The latest 10-inch device from Samsung,
weighing 599 grams and 10.9 millimeters thick, is built with
Android 3.0 Honeycomb software and equipped with a dual-core
processor that allows faster Web browsing and multimedia-content
viewing, according to Samsung.  “Only the phone business is holding up,” Kim Sung In, a
Seoul-based analyst at Kiwoom Securities Co. said by telephone
before today’s announcement. “Everything else is looking bad.
There’s no bright picture for the company looking ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 