-- 
Siemens to Start First Solar Thermal Plant After Solel Takeover

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-07-06T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/siemens-to-start-first-solar-thermal-plant-after-solel-takeover.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  is set to commission its
first solar-thermal power plant within two months and is seeking
financing for projects that will triple its capacity, said the
company’s head of solar energy for Spain.  Europe ’s largest engineering company will start feeding
power into the Spanish  power grid  from its 50-megawatt plant at
Lebrija near Seville, a joint venture with the Spanish
construction firm  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV) , Jose Luis Moran said.  “This summer we will be selling energy,” the Siemens
executive said in a phone interview on July 4. “In a very short
time, it will be producing at 100 percent.”  Siemens acquired its stake in the plant when it bought
Israel-based Solel Solar Systems Ltd. in 2009 to boost its
offerings in concentrating solar power. The  International Energy
Agency  said the technology may supply 11 percent of global
electricity by 2050 and could be competitive with conventional
power at peak times by the end of the decade.  The Lebrija plant deploys 170,000 curved mirrors to focus
the sun’s rays on pipes containing thermal oil that will reach
temperatures of 400 degrees Celsius (752 degrees Fahrenheit).
Siemens plans to begin construction of two additional 50-
megawatt plants at the site once Spain passes legislation to
govern the next wave of solar-thermal plants.  The new plants will cost about 300 million euros ($434
million) each and include a heat storage mechanism to extend the
amount of time that they will produce power each day, Moran
said. Siemens has held talks with potential partners to help
with costs of the project.  “The idea is to look for the partners necessary to finance
it and take it forward,” Moran said. “Financing is the
complicated thing.”  Spain  may become a hub for solar-thermal power. The Paris-
based IEA says Africa could become the second-biggest producer
behind the U.S. as countries including Morocco, Libya and
Tunisia pipe sun-powered electricity from the  Sahara desert 
across the Mediterranean to drive European industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at   bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  