-- 
Sino-Forest Delays Analyst Tour of China Facility to Await Panel’s Report

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-07-06T21:04:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/sino-forest-delays-analyst-tour-of-china-facility-to-await-panel-s-report.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the tree-
plantation owner targeted by short seller Carson Block,
postponed an analyst tour of its Chinese operations until a
committee reports on allegations it overstated production.  Sino-Forest said yesterday in a  letter  to investors and
analysts that it will wait for the independent committee’s
findings because “many” analysts who follow the company aren’t
able to resume coverage or comment publicly until then. The
committee may need two to three months to finish the task, the
Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based company said.  The tour “is certainly something people have been looking
forward to,” Eric Yan, who helps manage about C$2.7 billion
($2.8 billion) at Matrix Fund Management Inc. in Toronto, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “I understand that many
analysts have suspended their coverage, but postponing just adds
to the uncertainty.”  Sino-Forest has tumbled 74 percent since the day before
Muddy Waters LLC, a firm founded by Block, published a June 2
report that said the company exaggerated its timberland
holdings. Sino-Forest rejected the allegations and commissioned
the investigation, appointing PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to
assist. The analyst tour, which had been proposed for mid-July,
was first announced by Sino-Forest on June 6.  “Management’s overriding priorities are to maintain the
operations of the business and to support the work of the
independent committee and its advisers,” Sino-Forest said
yesterday in the letter.  More Information  Yan, who said he sold his Sino-Forest shares after the
release of Muddy Waters’ report, said he is unlikely to buy the
stock until more information about the plantation operator
becomes available.  Paul Quinn , a Toronto-based analyst at  RBC Capital Markets ,
said June 21 that the bank suspended coverage of Sino-Forest
pending the findings of the investigation. He previously had an
“outperform” rating on the stock. Richard Kelertas, an analyst
at Dundee Securities in  Montreal , suspended coverage on June 20.
Kelertas had recommended buying the shares.  Sino-Forest fell 54 cents, or 10 percent, to C$4.75 at 4:16
p.m. yesterday in Toronto Stock Exchange trading, after earlier
plunging 21 percent.  Sino-Forest has more than doubled in the past six trading
sessions. The shares climbed 30 percent on July 4 after
Wellington Management Co., the Boston-based investment firm that
manages $663 billion, said in a regulatory filing it owned an
11.5 percent stake.  OSC Probe  Canada ’s main securities regulator, which had said June 8
it was reviewing Sino-Forest, announced yesterday it began a
“targeted review” of companies that operate in emerging
markets and trade on the country’s exchanges.  The Ontario Securities Commission said in a statement it
will examine the disclosures, auditing and underwriting of
Ontario companies listed on Canadian markets that have a
significant emerging-markets presence.  The Ontario regulator will decide after its review what law
changes might be necessary to protect investors. It didn’t say
how long it expects the probe to last or name Sino-Forest in its
statement. The review will examine the disclosure of “certain
issuers” and the vehicles through which those companies have
accessed the Ontario market.  Chinese and U.S. officials will meet next week to discuss
giving American securities regulators the right to investigate
companies within  China  for the first time, said two Chinese
officials with direct knowledge of the plans.  Representatives from the Securities and Exchange Commission
and the  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board  will meet with
counterparts from the China Securities Regulatory Commission in
Beijing from July 11 to 12, said the officials, who asked not to
be named because the talks are private.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 