-- 
Sodexo Confirms 2011 Targets as Sales Rise

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-07-06T08:30:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/sodexo-confirms-full-year-targets-as-third-quarter-sales-rise.html
Sodexo (SW)  SA, the world’s second-largest
caterer, reiterated a forecast for higher earnings this year
after third-quarter revenue rose 2.6 percent.  Sales in the three months ended May 31 rose to 4.14 billion
euros ($6 billion) from 4.04 billion euros in the year-earlier
period, the Issy-les-Moulineaux, France-based company said in a
statement today. Sodexo was expected to report sales of 4.17
billion euros, according to the average of two analyst
estimates.  Sodexo and larger rival  Compass Group Plc (CPG)  are benefiting as
companies and governments move to outsource more catering and
cleaning services. The French company, which provides food to
the U.S. Marine Corps, started a new services contract for 136
public schools in  Detroit  during the quarter, one of its
biggest-ever U.S. education orders, according to the statement.  Revenue from the on-site services solutions unit rose 2.3
percent in the quarter to 3.96 billion euros. The division’s
sales in  Europe  excluding Ireland and the U.K. rose 4.4 percent.
Sales in the voucher-service business increased 7 percent.  Sodexo forecast full-year revenue growth of about 4.5
percent and a 10 percent rise in full-year operating profit,
excluding currency effects, maintaining previous objectives.  Targets Unchanged  The company is keeping targets unchanged as the economy
remains uncertain, Chief Executive Officer Michel Landel said on
a conference call. “Beyond fiscal 2011, we remain confident in
our ability to continue to accelerate revenue growth over the
medium term,” he said.  “The fact that operating profit guidance remains unchanged
suggests that, as at the interims, the company continues to be
cautious over food inflation concerns” in the third and fourth
quarters, said analysts at Espirito Santo, who recommend
investors buy Sodexo shares. “We remain confident in the
company’s ability to mitigate inflation.”  Sodexo shares fell as much as 1 percent and were down 13
cents, or 0.2 percent, at 53.83 euros as of 10:20 a.m. in Paris
trading. The stock has risen 4.4 percent this year, compared
with a 4 percent increase for Chertsey, England-based Compass.
 Edenred (EDEN) , Sodexo’s larger rival in the voucher-service business,
has gained 19 percent.  “We like Sodexo but we continue to prefer Compass,”
Evolution Securities analyst Nigel Parson wrote today. He cut
his recommendation on the shares to “neutral” from ”add.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  