-- 
South Africa’s Mbeki to Visit Bashir on Sudanese Cease-Fire, SPLM Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-07-06T18:46:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/south-africa-s-mbeki-to-visit-bashir-on-sudanese-cease-fire-splm-says.html
Former South African President  Thabo Mbeki  will travel to  Sudan  today to meet that country’s leader,
Umar al-Bashir, over cease-fire talks in the north’s Southern
Kordofan state, a regional governor said.  Delegations from the Sudanese government and the northern
branch of the south’s ruling Sudan People’s Liberation Movement,
or SPLM, signed a framework agreement last week in  Ethiopia  to
prepare for talks to end clashes in Southern Kordofan, northern
Sudan’s only oil-producing state. The agreement was brokered by
the African Union High-Level Implementation Panel on Sudan, led
by Mbeki.  Al-Bashir has “reservations” about the accord, said Malik Agar, governor of Sudan’s Blue Nile state and the head of the
SPLM’s northern branch, in an interview today in  Addis Ababa ,
Ethiopia’s capital. He declined to say what al-Bashir’s concerns
are. “If Bashir does not respond positively, there will be no
talks,” Agar said.  Rabie Abdel Ati, a senior member of al-Bashir’s  National
Congress Party  and adviser to the information minister, did not
answer calls to his mobile phone seeking comment.  Clashes between Sudanese government forces and units of
Southern Sudan’s army in Southern Kordofan have led to more than
73,000 people fleeing their homes since June 5, according to the
 United Nations . The fighting there and in the disputed border
region of Abyei raised concern of a resumption of a two-decade
civil war that ended in 2005.  ‘Third Party’  The SPLM “will not talk without a third party,” Agar said.
Mbeki’s African Union panel was mandated as the third party for
the talks in last week’s deal.  The Sudanese army will continue its military operations
against what it describes as ”rebels” in Southern Kordofan, as
”no cease-fire agreement has been signed yet,” Sudanese army
spokesman Al-Sawarmi Khaled said by phone from Khartoum, Sudan’s
capital, today. Both sides blame each other for starting the
violence in Southern Kordofan.  The U.S. is ”concerned that President Bashir has raised
objections to the political and security framework agreement,”
the State Department said in an e-mailed statement today. It
urged the government to work with the African Union panel ”to
overcome any objections so the vitally important discussions
called for in that agreement can proceed.”  Southern Sudan  is set to become independent from the north
on July 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 