-- 
Southern Union Seen Surging Most of U.S. Takeovers as Bids Boil: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-07-06T14:14:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/southern-union-seen-surging-most-of-u-s-takeovers-as-bids-boil-real-m-a.html
Traders who profit from acquisitions
are betting the bidding war for  Southern Union Co. (SUG)  will drive
the deal price up more than any other U.S. takeover as  Energy
Transfer Equity LP (ETE)  and Williams Cos. battle for gas pipelines.  Energy Transfer sweetened its offer for Southern Union
yesterday to an average of $40.25 a share in cash or stock,
trumping the $39 a share bid from Williams. Southern Union
closed 4.5 percent higher than the latest offer yesterday, the
widest gap of any pending U.S. deal with an equity value greater
than $1 billion, signaling traders are wagering a further
increase is needed to acquire the Houston-based company,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Williams and Energy Transfer covet Southern Union’s  15,000
miles  of natural-gas pipelines, particularly in  Florida , as the
disaster at  Japan ’s Fukushima plant curtails demand for nuclear
power and coal producers face environmental regulations,
according to WallachBeth Capital LLC. While arbitragers are
projecting a higher price for a company that’s already more
expensive than 95 percent of its peers relative to earnings, a
counterbid from Williams must top $42 a share to cover a richer
breakup fee with Energy Transfer, said Oscar Gruss & Son Inc.  “People are anticipating another bid,” said Yemi Oshodi,
managing director of M&A and special situations trading at New
York-based WallachBeth. “Nuclear is not going to be big going
forward, and nobody wants a coal-fired plant built in their
neighborhood. That’s why everybody wants these assets so badly.
The rational me says the price is reaching its maximum, but I
also know from experience that you could see something crazy.”  ‘Evaluating Our Options’  John Barnett, a spokesman for Southern Union, didn’t return
a telephone call seeking comment. Mark Palmer, a spokesman for
Energy Transfer, didn’t respond to a telephone call or e-mail.  Jeff Pounds, a spokesman for Williams, said yesterday that
the company is “evaluating our options.” He declined to
comment further and referred to the company’s June 23 statement
announcing its offer for Southern Union.  Energy Transfer, based in  Dallas , boosted its agreement
with Southern Union yesterday to $40 in cash or 0.903 common
shares for each share owned. Based on a maximum cash portion of
60 percent, the takeover was worth an average of $40.25 as of
yesterday’s close. The deal, which now has $3.3 billion in
committed financing from Credit Suisse Group AG, is valued at
about $8.8 billion including $3.7 billion in net debt, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Board Support  With a $10 billion market value, Energy Transfer had to
increase its original June 16 all-stock offer after Tulsa,
Oklahoma-based Williams submitted a counterbid of $39 a share in
cash on June 23. The competing proposal from Williams, which has
a market capitalization of $18 billion, trumped Energy
Transfer’s first bid by 18 percent, valuing Southern Union at
$8.6 billion including net debt.  The boards for Energy Transfer and Southern Union already
approved the combination, which also has support from 14 percent
of Southern Union’s shareholders, who intend to choose stock
instead of cash payment, according to a statement yesterday.  Southern Union shares climbed $1.70 after the announcement
to $42.07 yesterday, giving the company a market value of $5.2
billion. The stock closed about 4.5 percent higher than the
average value of Energy Transfer’s offer, indicating investors
expect Williams to respond with another bid.  Shares of Southern Union climbed 0.5 percent to $42.26 at
10:04 a.m. in  New York  today. Energy Transfer slipped 0.2
percent to $44.89, while Williams dropped 1 percent to $30.37.  ‘How High’  “The reaction now is that Williams is going to come
back,” said Kathleen Renck, vice president of merger research
at Wall Street Access in New York. “Williams has got to ask
themselves how high they have to go.”  Williams, which is rated the lowest level of investment
grade by Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s , can
afford to pay as much as $42 a share in cash if it decides to
counter, said  Kevin Shacknofsky , who helps manage $7 billion in
Purchase, New York, for Alpine  Mutual Funds . Energy Transfer is
rated one level below investment grade by Moody’s and three
levels below by S&P.  “They both seem like motivated bidders,” Shacknofsky
said. “But the fact that Williams has a better balance sheet
and can afford to pay more all in cash, that means you’d expect
them to be the winner.”  If Williams were to raise its offer by $3, Energy Transfer
“would really be hard pressed to match that,” said
WallachBeth’s Oshodi. He said the acquisition may close between
$42 and $44 a share.  Texas  to Florida  Energy Transfer and Williams are vying for Southern Union’s
pipelines that bring gas from Texas and the  Gulf Coast  to
markets in Florida and the Midwest after Japan’s biggest
earthquake on March 11 spurred the worst nuclear disaster since
Chernobyl 25 years ago.  In April,  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , a U.S. independent power
producer, halted its plans to build two new reactors at a Texas
nuclear plant. The company cited diminished prospects after the
earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling systems at Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Dai-Ichi plant, leading to the spread of
radiation across parts of northern Japan.  The Obama administration has identified energy sources such
as natural gas, nuclear, wind and solar as “clean” because
they produce lower emissions of carbon dioxide and other
pollutants than sources such as coal or oil. In March, the
Environmental Protection Agency proposed regulations to limit
the toxins spewed from coal-fired plants. Now, natural gas may
be the preferred power generator, WallachBeth’s Oshodi said.  ‘Whole New Need’  “If there’s a shift from coal to natural gas over the next
five to 10 years, there’s going to be a whole new need for
natural-gas pipeline infrastructure,” said Gordon Howald, an
analyst at East Shore Partners Inc. in Hauppauge, New York.
“Having scale and scope would better enable a company to
compete for those projects.”  Energy Transfer, which owns the  largest  intrastate system
in Texas, has assets close to Southern Union’s natural gas
conduit that runs from the biggest gas-producing state and spans
Florida. Adding its lines will almost double Energy Transfer’s
network. Williams’s Gulfstream pipeline, a partnership with
Houston-based  Spectra Energy Corp. (SE) , already supplies natural gas
to parts of Florida.  Demand  for natural gas grew 5.7 percent last year, the
biggest gain since 2007, according to the U.S. Department of
Energy.  Competing Bid  After Williams’ competing bid last month, investors
including KBC Asset Management NV sued Southern Union for not
properly shopping around for higher bids and structuring the
original deal with Energy Transfer in a way that discouraged
other offers.  Southern Union Chairman and Chief Executive Officer George Lindemann and Chief Operating Officer Eric Herschmann
voluntarily terminated consulting and non-compete agreements
that would have paid each executive $50 million over five years.
Also, Energy Transfer is now offering standard equity units
instead of issuing new series B preferred shares, Chairman Kelcy Warren said on a conference call yesterday.  Southern Union agreed to a higher termination fee of $162.5
million and may also owe as much as $50 million in expenses if
it calls off the deal with Energy Transfer, according to a
regulatory filing yesterday. Covering those costs means Williams
would have to increase its offer by at least $2 to more than $42
a share, which may be “more than Williams is prepared to bid,”
said Bill Kavaler, a special situations analyst at Oscar Gruss
in New York.  If Williams does counterbid, Kavaler said Energy Transfer
would have a “really hard time” making a better proposal.  ‘Not Our Style’  “They are already paying more than they want to and more
than many of their shareholders are pleased or comfortable
with,” Kavaler said of Energy Transfer.  Energy Transfer’s Warren declined to say if the partnership
would top a higher bid by Williams.  “It’s not our style to get into true auctions,” Warren
said in an interview yesterday. “We know these assets fit us
better by far than any other party.”  Southern Union already trades at 23 times its earnings in
the last 12 months, more expensive than any other U.S. gas
distributor with the exception of Williamsville, New York-based
 National Fuel Gas Co. (NFG) , which is valued at 29 times earnings,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “These are the markets that are going to grow much faster
than other ones, so there’s demand,” said Helena Derr, a
utility and energy analyst at Stewart Capital in  Indiana ,
 Pennsylvania , which oversees $1 billion. “Whoever has the money
will probably step up and buy. In most cases, the higher bidder
takes it all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 