-- 
Spring Airlines Slows China Expansion Plan on Pilot Shortage

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-07T05:18:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/spring-airlines-slows-china-expansion-plans-on-pilot-shortage.html
Spring Airlines , China’s biggest low-
cost carrier, slowed expansion because of a shortage of pilots
in the world’s fastest-growing aviation market.  The airline now intends to have as many as 50 planes in
service by 2015, compared with a previous target of 100,
Chairman Wang Zhenghua said yesterday in an interview in
Shanghai. The carrier may need to more than double its number of
pilots from about 130 in the period, based on figures he gave.  “The shortage of pilots is a problem for the whole
industry after years of rapid growth,” he said. “It is the
biggest restriction to our development.”  The Shanghai-based carrier has already hired more than 20
foreign crewmembers to help fly its 24 Airbus SAS A320s, and it
plans to support training for as many as 150 cadets a year to
ease future growth, Wang said. Nationwide,  China  will need
72,700 new pilots over 20 years, according to  Boeing Co. , as
airlines expand their fleets to support surging  travel demand .  “The thing that is saving us a little bit at the moment is
that America is slow,  Europe  is slow, and we can get some pilots
from them,” said  Peter Harbison , executive chairman of the
Sydney-based Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation. “But that’s very
short-term.”  Spring Air expects to carry 7 million passengers this year,
compared with 5.78 million last year, Wang said. Profit may
decline from last year’s 470 million yuan ($73 million) after
the Shanghai Expo helped boost fares in 2010. The airline has
earned 160 million yuan of profit so far this year, Wang said.  Shanghai  IPO  The carrier intends to hold a Shanghai initial public
offering this year or next to support growth plans, Wang said.
It has hired brokerages to arrange the sale, he said, declining
to elaborate further.  “Shareholders want to see Spring have a good and stable
development,” he said. “They don’t want to see any damage
caused by overly aggressive expansion.”  The carrier has 10 A320s on order, according to Airbus’s
website. Wang owns 30 percent of the airline, while managers and
senior staff hold 65 percent. The remaining 5 percent is owned
by the Shanghai Changning district government.  The airline, which began flights to Hong Kong last year,
aims to add services to Taipei and is in talks to fly to Kyushu
in southwestern  Japan , Wang said. In total, it operates more
than 50 routes, according to its website.  Spring also plans to phase out the sale of goods onboard
planes because of complaints about noise, Wang said. The carrier
will lose as much as 40 million yuan in net profit because of
the move, which it intends to offset by winning more corporate
passengers, Wang said.  “We used to only care about price-sensitive leisure
travelers, but now we want to tap business travelers who want
good prices and also a quiet environment,” he said.  --Jasmine Wang. Editors: Neil Denslow, Vipin V. Nair  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  