-- 
Squeezed Irish Begged to Buy Fridges as Economy Needs Lift

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-07-07T12:18:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/squeezed-irish-begged-to-buy-fridges-as-economy-craves-spending.html
Tara O’Neill stands empty-handed and
defiant outside a Marks & Spencer store on Dublin’s busiest
shopping street. She won’t be tempted to buy anything.  “I’ve gotten rid of my credit cards and paid down my
overdraft,” said O’Neill, 36, whose construction worker husband
is in  London  after Ireland’s real-estate bubble collapsed. “Now
we’re in recession. I don’t buy what I don’t have to.”  Irish retail sales are falling at more than twice the pace
of the average in the euro region, after the government
increased taxes and reduced salaries for state workers by 14
percent to help cope with  Europe ’s worst banking crisis.
 Consumer spending  plunged 1.9 percent in the first quarter from
the fourth quarter, the steepest drop in two years, according to
figures published last month by the  statistics office .  With household expenditure accounting for 53 percent of the
economy, Ireland’s ability to emerge from its deepest economic
contraction in history may depend on persuading people like
O’Neill to start spending the cash they have left. The yield on
10-year Irish bonds rose to a record today amid speculation that
the nation’s credit rating may join Greece and  Portugal  in being
downgraded to junk.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  lowered the  sales tax  on
everything from haircuts to meals to 9 percent from 13.5 percent
starting July 1 and also has pleaded with consumers to replace
their “clapped out” refrigerators and tumble dryers.  ‘Guerilla Raids’  “There’s a whole generation of Irish people who were born
to shop and they’ve had to change their behavior entirely,”
said  Austin Hughes , chief economist at KBC Ireland in Dublin,
which publishes a monthly index of consumer sentiment. “It’s
like they are burrowing deeper into their foxholes, saving and
paying off debt, and only coming out for guerilla raids when
they see a big bargain.”  Ireland’s economy has shrunk about 15 percent since 2007
and the  unemployment rate  tripled to 14.2 percent as key
exporters, including Dell Inc., the world’s second-largest maker
of personal computers, and Dublin-based drinks company  C&C Group
Plc (GCC)  fired workers.  Irish 10-year bond yields climbed 55 basis points, or 0.55
percentage point, to 12.98 percent, while the yield on two-year
notes remained above 15 percent for a second day after Portugal
lost its investment-grade rating at Moody’s Investors Service.
Representatives from the  European Central Bank ,  International
Monetary Fund  and European Commission are in Dublin for the
quarterly review of Ireland’s 85 billion-euro ($122 billion)
bailout agreement reached in November.  Households Hit  In this economy, consumers who helped drive what was known
as the  Celtic Tiger  are now saving and repaying debt amid
concerns about future increases in interest payments on
mortgages that may be bigger than the value of their homes.
Ireland’s savings rate rose to 13 percent last year from 3.6
percent in 2007, according to  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin.  Consumer spending is down 12 percent since peaking in the
fourth quarter of 2007, based on figures from the national
statistics office. In the euro region, consumer spending has
returned to levels last seen before  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  went bankrupt in 2008, said Hughes at KBC.  Speaking to reporters last month in Dublin, Noonan said
it’s safe for people to spend again.  “He is talking through his hat,” Andrea Lambert, 28, a
dental technician, said outside the St. Stephen’s Green shopping
center in Dublin. “People don’t have more money to spend. Our
wages are being hit, prices are going up, and people don’t have
the disposable income.”  Mortgage Burden  Tax increases and welfare cuts are costing households about
1,200 euros a year on average, Hughes said. That may rise as the
government has pledged to reduce the deficit by about 4 billion
euros in 2012, in part by introducing levies on real estate and
water use.  Borrowing costs are climbing, with the European Central
Bank raising its key rate to 1.5 percent today from 1.25
percent.  “People were taking out 100 percent mortgages, and just
paying back the interest,” Margaret O’Leary, 66, who owns a
company with her husband hiring out cranes that was hurt by the
economic collapse, said outside the Marks & Spencer on Grafton
Street. “They forgot all the zeros at the end.”  At the  Brown Thomas  department store, which has Hermes and
Louis Vuitton boutiques on street level, sales are up this year,
though still down about 15 percent from the peak of 2007.  Different Worry  “For the average person, one set of anxieties has probably
been exchanged for a slightly different set of anxieties,” said
Stephen Sealey, managing director of the 162-year-old Dublin
retailer. “The unknown two years ago was much more am I still
going to have a job. The unknown now is why does what is
happening to  Greece  affect us.”  At the  CHQ  mall, located in the heart of the city’s
financial-services district on the banks of the River Liffey,
it’s hard to see any signs of recovery.  The 19th century warehouse, built as a tobacco and wine
store, was converted into a mall in 2007. Thirteen of the 21
units are empty, with a tea shop, a children’s clothing shop and
a shoe store among those that have exited. Louis Copeland, a
tailor who has made suits for former U.S. President  Bill Clinton , is one of eight retailers left.  “We are probably selling about half of what we were
selling in 2007,” said Copeland, whose best-selling brand is
Canali-designed suits, which usually sell for 900 euros to 1,100
euros. “You wouldn’t be selling the flash stuff. All the
property developers and all that kind of business are gone.”  Drop in Confidence  Irish  consumer confidence  dropped in June to the lowest
level since February, according to KBC Ireland and the  Economic
& Social Research Institute .  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest retailer, said June 14 that
sales, excluding gasoline, fell 3.9 percent at stores open more
than a year in Ireland, the biggest decline of any non-domestic
market with the exception of  Japan .  Just off Grafton Street outside Marks & Spencer, O’Neill is
just enjoying feeling “liberated,” she said.  “I sat down and went through all my direct debits, and cut
over 500 euros from what we pay over a year,” O’Neill said.
“We got rid of the luxury life insurance policy because I said
we can’t afford to spend that in a recession.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  