-- 
St. Louis Blues Owner Checketts Says He’ll Get Loan Extension, Sale Coming

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-07-06T15:09:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/st-louis-blues-owner-checketts-says-he-ll-get-loan-extension-sale-coming.html
St. Louis Blues owner Dave Checketts
said he would be granted an extension to repay a $120 million
loan from a  Citigroup Inc (C) .-led syndicate, giving him more time
to sell the National Hockey League team.  Checketts, a former Madison Square Garden president, said
in a telephone interview today that he has three “very strong”
bidders for the franchise, which Forbes magazine says is worth
$165 million, placing it 23rd among the NHL’s 30 teams. He
didn’t identify the bidders.  Checketts said he never missed a payment on the loan, which
was due June 30. The banks, he said, wanted to know when they
could expect repayment by getting an update on the sale process.  “The bank is now satisfied,” he said. “We’re going to
move forward.”  Mark Costiglio, a spokesman for Citigroup, declined to
comment in an e-mail. NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on what role,
if any, the league is playing in the process.  Checketts wouldn’t disclose details of the pending
extension, saying he and the banks have agreed to
confidentiality.  “Bottom line is we’ve got plenty of time to conduct an
orderly process, which is all we wanted,” Checketts said. He
also said he wants to complete the sale by the end of the year.  Checketts controls the Blues through New York-based SCP
Worldwide, which owns about 20 percent of the club. He put the
team up for sale in March after failing to reach agreement with
TowerBrook Capital Partners on what its 70 percent was worth.  Default Fallout  A default would be damaging to Checketts, 55, who also runs
Real Salt Lake of  Major League Soccer  and has expressed an
interest in owning other teams, including baseball’s  Los Angeles
Dodgers .  Checketts ran MSG, putting him in charge of the  New York 
Knicks and Rangers, from 1994 to 2001. He resigned in a power
struggle with  James Dolan , chief executive officer of
Cablevision, which owned the teams at the time.  Cablevision said in 2009 that it was spinning off its MSG
assets, including the sports teams and Radio City  Music Hall .  Billionaire Tom Hicks’s Hicks Sports Group, which used to
own Major League Baseball’s Texas Rangers, defaulted on $525
million in loans after missing interest payments in April 2009.
The Rangers were sold last year in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  to a
group that included Hall of Fame pitcher  Nolan Ryan .  Checketts’s extension comes about a week after baseball’s
Dodgers filed for bankruptcy protection following Commissioner
Bud Selig’s rejection of a 17-year, $3 billion TV rights deal
between Fox Sports and Dodgers owner Frank McCourt, who is
fighting with his ex-wife, Jamie, over ownership of the team.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  