-- 
State Street Rehired by Calpers After Being Likened to ‘Thugs’ Over Fees

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/state-street-rehired-by-calpers-after-being-likened-to-thugs-.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown  sued
 State Street Corp. (STT)  in 2009, when he was attorney general, for
“unconscionable fraud” against pension funds over foreign-
exchange pricing. That didn’t stop the largest of the funds from
striking a new three-year deal with the firm.  The $232 billion  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System  last week signed a contract for Boston-based State Street
to continue handling all its custody work, said Wayne Davis, a
pension spokesman. Calpers, as the Sacramento-based fund is
known, passed over competing bids from  New York ’s  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)   “It does seem contradictory,” George Diehr, a Calpers
board member representing state employees, said in a telephone
interview. “It was difficult to find someone who would provide
all the services and at the terms we required.”  The contract, which Calpers says is worth about $5.7
million in annual revenue, suggests lawsuits facing State Street
and rival BNY Mellon will do little damage to the custody banks’
ability to retain business from public pension funds. State
Street also is being sued in Arkansas over foreign-exchange
pricing, and BNY Mellon faces legal action in  Virginia , Florida
and Pennsylvania.  “That’s pretty good evidence the suits won’t have
substantial impact on moving business around,” Brian Bedell, a
New York-based equity analyst with ISI Group Inc., said of the
new contract. “The funds are choosing the custodian that best
serves their needs and at a good price.”  Better Value  Calpers, which provides benefits to more than 1.6 million
workers and retirees, is the nation’s biggest public pension
fund.  Staff members told the fund board’s investment committee in
December that State Street offered “considerably better”
pricing than its competitors, and that the bank provides more
transparency than it did from 2001 through 2008, when it was
accused of overcharging.  State Street and BNY Mellon have denied the accusations in
the separate cases and said they will defend against them.  The new contract is “rather amazing,” said Keith Bishop,
a partner at Los Angeles law firm Allen, Matkins, Leck, Gamble,
Mallory & Natsis LLP and a former  California  commissioner of
corporations.  “If they felt someone had breached a contract with them,
it’s certainly surprising they would enter a new contract,”
Bishop said in a telephone interview.  California’s Suit  Gil Duran , a spokesman for Brown, referred questions to
Calpers and Attorney General Kamala D. Harris, who is pursuing
the case against State Street after being elected last year.
Becca MacLaren, a spokeswoman for Harris, declined to comment.  Anne Stausboll , chief executive officer of Calpers,
declined to comment. Asked whether the Calpers staff stood
behind the claims in the California lawsuit, Clark McKinley, a
spokesman for the fund, said in an e-mail, “We support the
investigation and continue to cooperate with the attorney
general’s office.”  The suit, initiated by a whistle-blower group, alleged
State Street violated the state’s  False Claims Act  by
overcharging Calpers and the California State Teachers’
Retirement System, or Calstrs, by $56 million when pricing
certain foreign-exchange transactions.  Brown investigated and stepped in, taking over the case on
behalf of the plaintiffs in October 2009. The state seeks more
than $200 million in damages and penalties.  Online Commentary  Brown,  writing  on the Huffington Post website on Oct. 21,
2009, expressed surprise the case hadn’t attracted outrage. “If
street thugs were to hold up a convenience store and drive off
with $1 million, it would be national news,” he wrote.  Ricardo Duran, a Calstrs spokesman, said that fund supports
the allegations against State Street. Calstrs remains in an
open-ended custody agreement with State Street, he said.  The  Arkansas  Teacher Retirement system has sued State
Street, and  attorneys general  in Virginia and Florida have taken
over whistle-blower cases against BNY Mellon. The Southeastern
Pennsylvania Transportation Authority is suing BNY Mellon.  The accusations center on standing-instruction
transactions, or smaller exchanges a custodian handles
automatically without a negotiated rate. For larger amounts,
managers typically contact the foreign-exchange desk of one or
more large banks to negotiate a rate.  ‘Fair and Reasonable’  State Street, in a June 3 motion to dismiss the Arkansas
suit, said its prices included “compensation for the additional
services provided and for the risks taken in executing”
standing-instruction foreign exchange.  Massachusetts officials, the latest to enter the dispute,
stopped short of accusing BNY Mellon of defrauding the state’s
public pension system while saying last month the bank reaped
$30.5 million in overcharges over 12 years. Treasurer Steven
Grossman said he would meet with the state’s attorney general to
discuss legal options and with BNY Mellon executives to try to
recoup the money.  “They are entitled to earn a fee,” Grossman said in a
June 17 interview in  Boston . “The only question is what is fair
and reasonable.”  Grossman’s stance differed from the claims leveled by
California and the other states, which say the custody banks had
promised to charge the interbank  exchange rate  without any
additional mark-up.  Standing-instruction rates were disclosed and the pension
fund had the ability to opt out of the trades on a daily basis,
said Kevin Heine, a spokesman for the bank.  Market Forces  “The bank is simply seeking the best price it can get,”
Richard X. Bove, an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC in Lutz,
 Florida , wrote in a May 23 research note. “If the buyer is
unhappy with that price it has the right to negotiate the price
lower, buy the product from another vendor or simply walk
away.”  The market may force lower prices from BNY Mellon because
of the legal disputes, even as the bank did nothing “illegal,
improper, or immoral,” he said.  David Hilder, senior equity analyst for Susquehanna
Financial Group in New York, said that while switching
custodians is a “hassle,” pension funds do jump for a better
price or superior service.  “There are always choices,” he said in a telephone
interview. “There are four very large, very capable firms that
could execute any state pension fund’s business, and in the past
they have competed aggressively.”  Four Main Competitors  In addition to State Street, BNY Mellon and JPMorgan,
Hilder included Chicago’s Northern Trust Corp.  The pension funds connected to the litigation from Florida,
Virginia and  Pennsylvania  remain custody clients of BNY Mellon,
Heine said.  Florida’s State Board of Administration, which oversees the
state’s $130.3 billion public  pension plan , in May named BNY
Mellon a finalist, along with State Street and JPMorgan, for a
new custody contract when the current deal expires Dec. 31,
Dennis MacKee, a Board of Administration spokesman, said in a
telephone interview. He declined to comment further.  State Street is the third-largest custody bank, after BNY
Mellon and JPMorgan. Custody banks keep records, track
performance and lend securities for institutional investors
including mutual funds, pension funds and  hedge funds .  BNY Mellon oversaw $25.5 trillion in assets under custody
and administration as of March 31. State Street had $22.6
trillion under custody.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 