-- 
Strauss-Kahn Lawyers Had ‘Constructive’ Meeting With New York Prosecutors

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-06T19:56:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/strauss-kahn-lawyers-had-constructive-meeting-with-manhattan-prosecutors.html
Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s office said “no decisions have been made” in the
Dominique Strauss-Kahn case after talking with the former
International Monetary Fund chief’s lawyers in what the defense
called a “constructive meeting.”  Lawyers for Strauss-Kahn, who is charged with the May 14
sexual assault and attempted rape of a hotel housekeeper, met
with prosecutors for more than an hour and a half today. Vance
disclosed last week that the 32-year-old housekeeper, a native
of  Guinea , had lied about key aspects of her life and her
actions immediately after the incident.  “We had a constructive meeting,”  Benjamin Brafman , one of
the lawyers, said as he left the prosecutor’s office in  Lower
Manhattan  with Strauss-Kahn lawyer William Taylor III. The
lawyers declined to comment further.  “The investigative process is continuing, and no decisions
have been made,”  Erin Duggan , chief spokeswoman for Vance, said
in an e-mail after the meeting. She declined to comment on the
meeting.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, was indicted May 19 for the alleged
attack at the Sofitel hotel in midtown Manhattan. He has pleaded
not guilty.  The former French finance minister, who was stopped by
police from taking an Air France flight the day of the alleged
attack, was released from home confinement July 1 after
prosecutors told a judge the case had been hurt by “substantial
credibility issues” with the accuser.  Armed Guard  Until last week, Strauss-Kahn was only allowed to leave the
townhouse where he is living for medical, legal and religious
purposes. He was required to remain under armed guard and wear
an electronic monitoring bracelet. He posted $1 million bail and
a $5 million bond, which were ordered returned.  Prosecutors originally argued for Strauss-Kahn to be held
in jail, saying he was a flight risk, especially because  France 
doesn’t extradite its citizens.  Noel Leader, a representative of a  New York  group called
100 Blacks in Law Enforcement which advocates for justice on
behalf of African-Americans, stood outside the District
Attorney’s office today while the meeting was going on. Leader
called for Vance to allow the case to go to trial or have a
special prosecutor appointed.  “There’s enough information to proceed with the
prosecution,” Leader said. He added that there are problems
with many witnesses in criminal trials.  A sexual encounter is corroborated by forensic evidence,
prosecutors reiterated last week.  The woman told the grand jury she fled to the main hallway
on the floor, prosecutors said. On June 28, she admitted she
cleaned a nearby room, then returned to the suite where the
incident occurred.  The district attorney’s office also said the housekeeper
lied on her tax returns and in an application for asylum.  The housekeeper stated in a 2004 application for asylum
that she had been raped by Guinean soldiers, prosecutors said in
a  June 30 letter. The woman “cried and appeared markedly
distraught” in two interviews when recounting the rape,
according to a court filing. Then she admitted the rape she had
spoken of so emotionally had never occurred.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11,  Supreme Court 
for the State of New York, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  