-- 
STX Plans Bid With Middle East Sovereign Fund for $2.2 Billion Hynix Stake

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 
2011-07-07T00:59:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/stx-plans-bid-with-middle-east-sovereign-fund-for-2-2-billion-hynix-stake.html
STX Group, owner of the world’s
third-largest marine-engine maker, said it may team up with a
Middle Eastern sovereign wealth fund to bid for a stake in  Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. (000660)   STX is “highly likely” to submit a bid before tomorrow’s
deadline set by shareholders including Korea Exchange Bank, the
group said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. It wouldn’t need
to borrow to pay for a stake of about 15 percent, according to
Vice Chairman Lee Jong Chul, who didn’t identify STX’s potential
Mideast partner.  The decision breathes life back into a sale that appeared
on the verge of collapsing for the fourth time in two years when
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. ruled out a bid. The stake in Hynix,
the world’s second-largest maker of DRAM semiconductors used in
personal computers and smartphones, was valued at 2.36 trillion
won ($2.2 billion), based on the stock’s closing price yesterday.  “It seems more likely than in previous attempts that Hynix
is going to find an owner this time,” David Choi, an analyst
with KTB Investment & Securities Co., said by telephone. “It
would be good for Hynix to have an owner as it can focus more on
growth and make decisions for strategic investments.”  Hynix was bailed out by creditors including Korea Exchange
Bank and Woori Bank in 2001. They swapped debt for equity and
have failed three times since 2009 to offload their stake.  Technology Deals  The disposal would be the largest share sale of a South
Korean technology company since July 1999, when Hynix bought a
majority holding in Hyundai Microelectronics Co. for 2.56
trillion won, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are always looking for opportunities to grow and we
believe this deal could help STX reduce the group’s dependency
on shipping and shipbuilding,” STX’s Lee told reporters last
night. “We plan to make a rational offer if we decide to bid.”  STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co., the world’s fourth-largest
shipyard, led STX Group companies lower in  Seoul , falling as
much as 11 percent. It traded down 5.4 percent at 27,300 won at
9:47 a.m. in Seoul.     STX Corp., which will lead the group offer
if a bid goes ahead, dropped as much as 9.1 percent.  Buying Hynix would be STX Group’s biggest acquisition. It
acquired Aker Yards ASA,  Europe ’s largest shipyard, for about
1.4 trillion won in 2007.  ‘Little Synergy’  STX Offshore started trading in Seoul in October 2003, two
years after it was taken over by the group, and STX Pan Ocean Co.
debuted on the bourse in July 2005 after being bought in
November 2004.  “Given little synergy can be seen, it could hurt the share
prices of STX Group affiliates unless they provide the market
with a good explanation for a bid,” said Kim Do Joon, a
portfolio manager who helps manage 1.8 trillion won in equities
at Hanwha Investment Trust Management Co. in Seoul.  Hyundai Heavy, the world’s largest shipbuilder, gained for
a second day after abandoning a plan to bid for Hynix yesterday.
The stock climbed as much as 2.5 percent.  Adding the chipmaker to existing businesses would create
“little synergy,” Ulsan, South Korea-based Hyundai Heavy said.  Hynix gained as much as 2.6 percent to 27,200 won in Seoul.  SK Group  Undecided  SK Group, parent of the nation’s biggest oil refiner and
mobile-phone operator, said it hasn’t decided whether to bid.
Hyosung Group, Dongbu Group and LG Group aren’t planning to bid
for Hynix, the companies said in separate regulatory filings
yesterday after the stock exchange requested clarification on
market speculation.  Hyundai Heavy’s possible interest in Hynix was driven by a
desire to rebuild  South Korea ’s family-owned conglomerates,
known as chaebol, rather than any business rationale, according
to Mirae Asset Securities Co. and CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. The
shipbuilder and Hynix’s predecessor were both part of the old
Hyundai Group.  Hyundai Heavy also owned shares in Hynix before the
shipyard severed ties with  Hyundai Group  in 2002.  Hynix needs to be sold to a company with a stable  cash flow ,
given the volatile nature of the chip business, said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $29 billion.  Hynix posted record sales and profit in 2010, helped by
cost cuts and demand for chips used in mobile devices, leading
the company to pay a cash dividend to investors for the first
time. It reduced debt by more than 1 trillion won last year and
had more than 2 trillion won in cash, according to the company.  The chipmaker plans to spend about 3.4 trillion won this
year expanding production and upgrading factories, after
investing 3.38 trillion won in capital expenditure in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Seoul at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 Jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 