-- 
Sweden Krona Gain Won’t Hit Exports

-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-07-06T07:06:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/sweden-krona-gain-won-t-hit-exports.html
Swedish central bank Governor Stefan Ingves said a 22 percent surge in the krona against the dollar
in the past year marks a “normalization” that won’t harm
exporters, signaling the bank isn’t planning to adjust policy to
prevent further appreciation.  “As far as we can see, we’re going to have a very large
current account surplus for the foreseeable future, so when it
comes to the  exchange rate , we’re seeing a normalization rather
than an excessive appreciation,” Ingves said yesterday in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Andrea Catherwood . Asked
whether he’s concerned about the impact of an appreciation on
exporters, he said “no, we are not.”  The bank raised its benchmark repo rate yesterday for a
seventh time in a year, bringing it to 2 percent. Ingves
reiterated the Riksbank’s commitment to continued rate increases
as Sweden withstands the fallout of the euro area’s debt crisis
and delivers one of  Europe ’s fastest economic rebounds.  The krona rose 0.2 percent against the euro to 9.0560 and
was trading 0.1 percent higher versus the dollar at 6.2836.  The largest Nordic economy, which sent 44 percent of its
exports outside the European Union in May, is unlikely to be
hurt by the debt crisis engulfing economies on the euro region’s
periphery, Ingves said.  “Before we really get affected, many other countries would
be affected before us,” he said.  Exports Resilient  Sweden’s economy grew an annual 6.4 percent in the first
quarter after surging 7.7 percent in the final three months of
2010, the statistics office said on May 27. The country has
posted trade surpluses every year since 1983.  The krona’s appreciation has yet to suppress export demand.  Sweden’s  SKF AB (SKFB) , the world’s largest maker of ball
bearings, reported record quarterly profit at the start of 2011
as sales to all regions grew.  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and  Scania AB (SCVB) , two of
Europe’s biggest commercial-vehicle makers, also said profits
surged as heavy-truck demand rebounded.  The krona, which has gained 6.3 percent against the euro in
the past 12 months, is unlikely to continue appreciating at the
same pace, Ingves said.  “The significant strengthening of the exchange rate is
behind us,” he said at a press briefing after yesterday’s rate
announcement. Given a “certain interest rate spread” against
the euro area and the U.S. over the “next few years,” the
krona “will be pretty stable,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  