-- 
Swedish Health Startups Ignore Venture Funds to Boost Cash 600%

-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 
2011-07-06T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/swedish-health-startups-ignore-venture-funds-to-boost-cash-600-.html
Swedish entrepreneur Bert Junno
needed money for his biotechnology company,  WntResearch AB (WNT) ,
after rejecting proposals from venture capital firms.  “One offer was $150,000 for 80 percent of the company,”
Junno said. “I wouldn’t say that’s a fair offer.”  WntResearch raised about seven times that amount when it
sold shares on the Stockholm-based AktieTorget AB exchange,
where investments average $4,800. The company’s market value has
climbed 34 percent since trading began Dec. 17, compared with
the 4.1 percent advance of the 17-member Bloomberg index of
European pharmaceutical stocks.  A record 12 health-care and biotech stocks have gone public
on Sweden’s  four exchanges  in the past 18 months, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The share sales have emerged as the Nordic
economy delivers one of  Europe ’s strongest rebounds, with the
economy growing an annual 6.4 percent in the first quarter, and
after  venture capital  investments slumped to a five-year low.  A survey of 19 listed and 100 unlisted companies found that
about half expect to seek as much as 50 million kronor ($8
million) of funding within three years, said Hans Sievertsson,
chairman of Stockholm-based industry group SwedenBIO. That may
exceed what investors are willing to spend, he said.  “We may have too many companies that are competing for the
same buck,” Sievertsson said.  Venture capital firms “are trying to buy projects and
companies very cheaply,” said Junno, whose Lund-based
WntResearch in southern Sweden is developing a cancer treatment
that slowed tumor growth in mice. “I don’t need their money at
those prices.”  Seeking IPOs  Government efforts to encourage scientists to turn their
products into profits are sending more startups to market, said
Lennart Hansson, the life-science investment director for
Industrifonden, a government initiative to bolster innovation.  They “are being stimulated to form companies and file for
patents and then, when they need 20, 40, 60 million kronor, they
are in deep trouble,” Hansson said.  An average of one Swedish company per month announced plans
to pursue an initial public offering in the year ended May 31,
according to Bloomberg data. In the same period,  Poland  had nine
IPOs, France five, and the U.K.,  Switzerland  and Germany none.  Venture capital was a major funding source for industry
newcomers before the global economic crisis cut off funds, said
Marie Reinius, the Stockholm-based chief executive officer of
the  Swedish Private Equity  and Venture Capital Association. Now,
venture capitalists have shied away from an industry where the
chances of getting a product to market can be as low as  one in
10,000 , according to Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers
of America in  Washington .  ‘Too Little Money’  Swedish venture capital investments in all industries fell
to a  five-year low  of 2.66 billion kronor in 2010 from a high of
5.8 billion kronor in 2008, the association said in March.  “We have too little money in the market for the early-
stage companies,” Reinius said.  An absence of capital also is denting the industry outside
 Sweden . In the U.S., early-stage biotechs cut research spending
by about 1 percent after available funds dropped 21 percent last
year, London-based consulting company Ernst & Young said in a
June 14 report.  Swedish health-care companies developing products such as
cancer therapies have sought a combined 939 million kronor in
IPOs since May 2010, Bloomberg data show. The amounts range from
608 million kronor for Solna-based Karolinska Development AB to
4.84 million kronor sought by  PharmaLundensis AB (PHAL)  in Lund.  Investors are hoping they are buying into the next
Pharmacia AB, the Swedish drugmaker that New York-based  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  bought for $58 billion in 2003, said Guenther Maarder, the
CEO of the  Swedish Shareholders’ Association  in  Stockholm .  Cancer Test  Charlotte Aronsson, the CEO of Uppsala-based AroCell AB,
figured her chances of reaching an acceptable deal with a
venture capital firm were so low that she traveled across Sweden
to pitch the company’s experimental cancer test directly to
investors. A 25-year veteran in the diagnostics industry,
Aronsson raised 7 million kronor. AroCell shares have gained 21
percent since trading began on May 25.  “Many people can relate to this kind of business,”
Aronsson said. Many investors are older, and “disease is always
close to them,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  