-- 
Syrian Clashes With Security Forces Kill 22 Amid Crackdown, Activists Say

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-06T13:46:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/syrian-clashes-with-security-forces-kill-22-amid-crackdown-activists-say.html
At least 22 people were killed in
 Syria  yesterday as security forces extended a push into cities
where thousands attended anti-government rallies against
President Bashar al-Assad’s rule, activists said.  The latest casualties follow rallies on July 1 and 2 in
Hama, a city north of Damascus, which drew as many as 400,000
people, according to Ammar Qurabi, head of the National
Organization for Human Rights in Syria and Mahmoud Merhi, head
of the Arab Organization for Human Rights. Electricity and water
supplies have been cut in the city, the activists said.  Protests against Assad’s 11-year rule began in mid-March as
part of a wave of unrest across the  Middle East  and North Africa
this year that has unseated the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia .
Assad on June 20 blamed the protests on a foreign conspiracy and
said the opposition was seeking to carve a sectarian divide.  Assad last month called for talks with the opposition. He
allowed a meeting in Damascus of intellectuals and academics who
are critics of the government to set the stage for the dialogue.  The Syrian government’s talk of reconciliation with
protesters demanding more democratic rights hasn’t been met by
its actions, U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland
said yesterday.  “We see Hama surrounded by Syrian security forces, so
we’re going in the wrong direction,” she said, speaking to
reporters in  Washington . U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said July 1 that Assad is “running out of time” to meet the
protesters’ demands.  Biggest Challenge  The protests are the biggest challenge to the Assad family
since 1982, when an uprising also took place in the city of
Hama. That year, Assad’s father and predecessor, President Hafez al-Assad, used the army to end the protests led by the Muslim
Brotherhood movement, killing at least 10,000 people, according
to  Human Rights Watch . The Assads are from the Alawite minority
in the Sunni Muslim-majority country of more than 21 million
people.  Pro-government forces have killed more than 1,600 people
since the start of the unrest, according to Qurabi and Merhi.
Hundreds have been arrested in Hama, in the Damascus suburbs of
Harasta and Douma, in the province of Idlib in the north and in
the southern province of Daraa, where the rallies against
Assad’s rule began in mid-March, according to the human rights
activists.  Government Claims  Assad last month said that the protests have been marked by
“vandalism, murder and the destruction of private property,”
and the demonstrators are being paid. Syrian security forces
have also been killed in the clashes, though the government
hasn’t said how many. At least two mass graves were found with
bodies of police and security personnel, the government has
said.  The “brutal methods” used in a Syrian security operation
in the western town of Tallkalakh “may constitute crimes
against humanity,”  Amnesty International  said in a report
today, based on interviews with more than 50 people. The London-
based organization said every family from the town had at least
one relative in detention and that most of those detained were
tortured.  “The accounts we have heard from witnesses to events in
Tallkalakh paint a deeply disturbing picture of systematic,
targeted abuses to crush dissent,” said Philip Luther,  Amnesty
International ’s Middle East and North Africa Deputy Director.  Thousands of Syrians have fled across the border to Turkey
to escape violence in northern towns, straining relations
between the countries.  A total of 9,472 Syrians remain in tent cities in Turkey
set up by the Turkish Red Crescent in the province of Hatay, the
country’s Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency said
today in a statement. As many as 15,371 people entered  Turkey 
during the upheaval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Dubai at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  