-- 
U.K. Decision on BSkyB Bid Will Only Consider Media Plurality

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-07-06T16:58:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/u-k-decision-on-bskyb-bid-will-only-consider-media-plurality.html
The U.K. government consultation on
News Corp.’s bid to fully control  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY)  will only take into account plurality in the media and won’t
be directly influenced by this week’s phone-hacking allegations,
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman said.  “There is a consultation and that entire process is
looking at plurality in the media -- that consultation is
ongoing and doesn’t close until Friday,” Steve Field told
reporters in London today, when asked whether allegations that
News Corp.’s News of the World newspaper illegally accessed
voicemail messages and paid police officers for stories would
have any bearing on the consultation.  Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  will “make a decision”
after the consultation ends at noon on July 8, Field said,
leaving open the possibility that any decision wouldn’t be taken
immediately. A rejection of the bid on issues not relating to
plurality would be subject to a judicial challenge, he said.  Liberal Democrat lawmaker  Simon Hughes  said in the House of
Commons today he would ask Ofcom, Britain’s media regulator,
this week to consider if  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News International unit is
fit to hold a broadcasting license. “It would mean the act of
merging BSkyB would not be able to go ahead,” Hughes told
lawmakers.  Ofcom said in an e-mailed statement it is “closely
monitoring the situation and in particular the investigations by
the relevant authorities into the alleged unlawful activities.”  While Ofcom can rule against ownership of media that it
doesn’t consider “fit and proper,” it would not be able to use
those objections in relation to the BSkyB takeover, Field said.  Cameron promised at least one inquiry into phone-hacking
today, describing the allegations as “absolutely disgusting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  