-- 
U.K. Stocks Slide as Moody’s Downgrades Portugal; Barclays Sinks

-- B y   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-07-06T16:14:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/u-k-stocks-drop-halting-longest-winning-streak-in-two-years-rbs-slides.html
U.K. stocks fell, ending an eight-day
rally for the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) , as Moody’s Investors
Service cut  Portugal ’s credit rating to junk and China’s central
bank said it will increase  interest rates .  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  sank by
more than 3 percent. Trinity Mirror Plc surged 17 percent as
investors speculated that the publisher of Britain’s Daily
Mirror newspaper may as much as double annual advertising
revenue for its Sunday newspaper.  The FTSE 100 dropped 0.4 percent to 6,002.92 at the 4:30
p.m. close in  London . The gauge had rallied 6.2 percent over the
past eight days, posting its longest winning streak in almost
two years, as Greek lawmakers approved a five-year austerity
package, qualifying the country to receive further aid from the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund . The FTSE
All-Share Index lost 0.3 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index declined 1.1 percent.  “There’s concern from some people that China is pushing
the brakes on economic growth a little too hard,” said  Richard Hunter , head of U.K. equities at Hargreaves Lansdown Plc in
London. “We’ve by no means solved  Europe ’s debt problem and
that is going to need to be revisited again soon.”  U.K. stocks extended their losses after China raised
benchmark interest rates for the third time this year. Chinese
inflation accelerated in May to the fastest pace since July
2008.  The one-year deposit rate will increase to 3.5 percent from
3.25 percent tomorrow, the People’s Bank of  China  said on its
website today. The one-year lending rate will climb to 6.56
percent from 6.31 percent.  U.S. Non-Manufacturing  In the U.S., a report from the Institute for Supply
Management showed that growth in  service industries  slowed more
than expected in June. The measure dropped to 53.3 from 54.6 in
May. That fell short of the median economist estimate for a
reading of 53.7 in a Bloomberg News survey.  Moody’s Investors Service cut Portugal’s credit rating to
junk, lowering the indebted country’s debt to Ba2 from Baa1 with
a negative outlook.  Germany  revived a proposal to lengthen Greek bond
maturities. It had dropped the idea two weeks ago when rating
firms said they may deem such a move as a default.  Barclays, RBS, Lloyds  Banks were the worst performing industry on the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index today, sliding 1.7 percent. Barclays slumped
3.8 percent to 249.8 pence, its largest slide in two months. RBS
sank 3.4 percent to 37.9 pence and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) 
slipped 2.1 percent to 47.8 pence.  Trinity Mirror surged 17 percent to 49.3 pence, its biggest
increase in almost a year, on speculation that companies will
avoid associating their brands with Rupert Murdoch’s News of the
World after the newspaper was accused of hacking into a murder
victim’s voicemail. Lloyds and General Motors Co.’s Vauxhall
auto brand have pulled advertising from the market-leading
Sunday tabloid.  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc, which Murdoch’s News
Corp. plans to acquire, fell 2.1 percent to 827 pence for the
broadcaster’s largest retreat in more a year.  BP fell 1 percent to 455 pence following a report that the
Indian oil ministry has referred the company’s bid to acquire a
30 percent stake in oil and gas blocks operated by Reliance
Industries Ltd. to a cabinet committee. The report, from the
Press Trust of India newswire, said the referral may delay the
deal.  Smith & Nephew Rallies  Smith & Nephew Plc, Europe’s largest maker of shoulder and
knee implants, climbed 1.7 percent to 684 pence. Rival Kinetic
Concepts Inc., a manufacturer of wound-care products, was said
to have held talks to go private in a leveraged buyout,
according to people familiar with the matter.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, the carrier
formed from the merger of British Airways and Iberia, retreated
2.9 percent to 251.1 pence.  Booker Group Plc, the wholesale grocer, surged 11 percent
to 77.9 pence.  Outsourcing company  Serco Group Plc (SRP)  soared 3.9 percent to
565 pence, its largest gain in five weeks and the biggest
advance on the FTSE 100 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Conor Sullivan in London at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  