-- 
U.K. Budget Watchdog Slams Cameron’s Move to Cut Back Aircraft Carriers

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-07-06T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/u-k-watchdog-slams-cameron-move-to-cut-back-aircraft-carriers.html
Britain’s government spending
watchdog criticized Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s decision to
scale back plans for new aircraft carriers, saying it raises
questions over affordability and loss of expertise in operating
the ships.  The London-based National Audit Office said today it sees
“risks to value for money” in the decision, announced in
October, to order fewer, cheaper planes for one new  aircraft
carrier  and possibly mothball a second or have it carry only
helicopters.  “It will take two years for the department to reach a
mature understanding of the consequences of the decision,” NAO
Chief Operating Officer Michael Whitehouse said in an e-mailed
statement. “These consequences include a decade without an
operational carrier and the risks after such a time associated
with reconstituting the capability.”  The watchdog questioned whether government plans to achieve
3.4 billion pounds ($5.4 billion) in savings on aircraft
carriers over 10 years can be realized without jeopardizing the
capability of the armed forces. It said the government’s defense
plans aren’t affordable and the military will need more money
after 2015.  The defense ministry has to reduce its budget by 8 percent
over four years as Britain seeks to reduce its deficit. The
Conservative-led government blames the previous Labour
administration for creating a 38 billion-pound shortfall.  Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  and the department’s top civil
servant, Ursula Brennan, said in a statement released by her
office in  London  that they are “disappointed” that the
watchdog published its findings without letting her see the
final report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  