-- 
Pay Growth at Largest Companies Quickens After Income-Tax Change in Budget

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-07-06T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/u-k-pay-growth-accelerates-after-income-tax-change-in-government-budget.html
Take-home pay at Britain’s largest
listed companies rose the fastest since February 2009 in the
second quarter, reflecting an increase in a tax-free allowance
on incomes in the government’s budget, VocaLink Ltd. said.  Incomes after tax and other deductions climbed 3.3 percent
on the year, up from 1.8 percent growth in the three months
through May, the group said in a statement in  London  today. Wage
growth accelerated to 3.4 percent at service companies and more
than doubled to 2.4 percent at manufacturers. In the public
sector, pay growth eased to 1.3 percent from 1.5 percent.  U.K. inflation was at 4.5 percent in May, the fastest since
2008, boosted by higher commodity prices, a weaker pound and a
sales-tax increase in January. The  Bank of England  will probably
leave its key interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent today
to support the recovery through the biggest fiscal squeeze since
World War II, according to all 51 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  The “significant increase” in the index is “a positive
sign,” VocaLink Chief Executive Officer Marion King said.
Still, public-sector workers “have also begun to feel the
squeeze of April’s two-year pay freeze.”  VocaLink, which processes 90 percent of British salaries
paid directly to bank accounts, used salary-payment data from
more than 200 members of the U.K.’s  FTSE 350 Index (NMX)  and more than
600 government-related organizations for the report.  The Bank of England will announce its interest-rate
decision at noon in London. In a separate report, the Institute
of Directors said that the central bank should leave its key
rate unchanged or it risks a double-dip recession.  “To raise interest rates at this stage in the economic
recovery, when money-supply growth is so weak, would be
unprecedented,” Chief Economist Graeme Leach said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  