-- 
Treasuries Advance, Pushing 10-Year Yield to 1-Week Low on Growth Outlook

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-07-06T21:10:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/u-s-treasuries-advance-after-moody-s-lowers-portugal-debt-rating-to-junk.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year note
yields to a one-week low, as  China ’s announcement it will raise
 interest rates  for the third time this year spurred concern that
economic growth will slow and discouraged risk demand  U.S. government bonds gained for a second day amid concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis may spread beyond Greece and Portugal.
Moody’s Investors Service cut Portugal’s credit rating yesterday
to junk status. Treasuries trimmed gains today as U.S. stocks
erased losses.  “The China story is obviously a component to the nerves in
the market,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in New York at
Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer broker. “People
are held hostage to the headline risks in Europe.”  Ten-year note yields fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.11 percent at 5:05 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3.125 percent
securities due in May 2021 increased 3/32, or 94 cents per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 1/8.  Benchmark 10-year note yields earlier touched 3.07 percent,
the lowest level since June 29. Thirty-year bond yields slipped
one basis point today to 4.36 percent. Yields on two-year notes,
among the most sensitive to changes in interest rates because of
their short maturity, traded at 0.42 percent, compared with 0.43
percent yesterday. They earlier fell to 0.41 percent, the lowest
since June 28.  Rates on three-month bills increased one basis point to
0.005 percent after dropping below zero yesterday for the first
time since 2008.  Negative Rates  One-month bill rates fell to negative 0.01 percent, their
first time below zero since June 30. An auction of $28 billion
of the securities today drew a yield of zero, the lowest level
since January 2010.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent after
earlier falling as much as 0.5 percent.  The  Federal Reserve  bought $2.91 billion of Treasuries
today due from January 2014 to February 2015, according to the
New York Fed’s website. The central bank completed its $600
billion program of debt purchases on June 30 and is now
reinvesting maturing assets from its debt holdings as part of
its efforts to cap borrowing costs.  China’s one-year deposit rate will rise to 3.5 percent from
3.25 percent, effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank of China
said on its website today. The one-year lending rate will
increase to 6.56 percent from 6.31 percent. The boosts are aimed
at containing inflation.  ‘Positive for Treasuries’  “People worry that it would be slightly negative for the
world economy if they are trying to slow down growth,”  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA
Inc. in New York, said of China’s move. “That’s positive for
Treasuries.”  Bonds remained higher after the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s non-manufacturing index fell more than estimated to
53.3 last month, from 54.6 in May, data from the Tempe, Arizona,
group showed. A Bloomberg News survey forecast the service-
industry gauge would decline to 53.7. Readings greater than 50
signal expansion.  The Fed said after its June 21-22 meeting it expects the
economic recovery to pick up after ebbing in the second quarter.  Growth will accelerate to 3.2 percent in the third quarter,
from 2.3 percent in the second, according to the median forecast
of 68 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Ten-Year Yields  Ten-year yields will advance to 3.62 percent by year-end,
according to the average forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of
banks and securities companies, with the most recent forecasts
given the heaviest weightings.  Treasuries investors were the most bearish in more than six
years in the week ended yesterday as portfolio managers
eliminated wagers that the prices of the securities will rise,
according to a survey by JPMorgan Chase & Co., one of the 20
primary dealers that trade Treasuries with the Fed.  The net percentage of investors in the survey betting that
Treasury prices will increase was zero for the first time since
Feb. 14, 2005, the firm said in a release. It was the third such
result in the history of the weekly survey, which began in the
early 1990s, Srini Ramaswamy, a JPMorgan strategist, said in an
interview.  About 75 percent of the clients surveyed were neutral,
while 25 percent were short. A short position is a wager the
price of a security will fall, while a long position is a bet it
will rise. The firm declined to divulge the number of clients in
the survey.  Portugal ’s Rating  Treasury yields fell yesterday as Moody’s lowered
Portugal’s long-term rating to Ba2, two levels below investment
grade. The company said in the move stemmed partly from “the
growing risk that Portugal will require a second round of
official financing before it can return to the private market.”  There is also “the increasing possibility that private-
sector creditor participation will be required as a pre-
condition,” the ratings company said.  Portugal won a 78 billion-euro ($113 billion) international
bailout in May as it struggles to repair its finances. The
Iberian nation joined Ireland and Greece in turning to the
European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  for emergency
funding after their budget deficits ballooned.  “Portugal serves as a not-so-subtle reminder that even if
we get away from the  Greece  issue, there’s other contagion that
isn’t going to go away,” said  Kevin Flanagan , chief fixed-
income strategist at Morgan Stanley Smith Barney based in
Purchase, New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  