-- 
U.S. Services Industries Likely Grew More Slowly

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/u-s-services-industries-probably-grew-at-a-slower-pace-as-expansion-cools.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably expanded at a slower pace in June, showing the
expansion cooled at the end of the first half of 2011,
economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
index fell to 53.7 last month from 54.6 in May, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Readings greater
than 50 signal expansion.  Service companies that account for about 90 percent of the
economy joined manufacturing last quarter in slowing as a 9.1
percent  unemployment rate  limited  consumer spending .  FedEx Corp. (FDX) 
is among those businesses projecting the expansion will gain
momentum through the rest of the year as gasoline prices provide
relief for households and Japan supply disruptions abate.  “We’re seeing a bottoming in activity,” said  John
Herrmann , senior fixed-income strategist at State Street Global
Markets LLC in  Boston . “Businesses are poised to do a little
bit better in the second half of the year. There should still be
some headwinds, but energy prices are coming off and improved
manufacturing will favorably spill over to services.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s report is due at 10 a.m. New
York time. The 70 estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
51.2 to 56.  The ISM services survey covers industries that range from
utilities and retailing to health care and finance. The report
follows the group’s July 1 figures that showed manufacturing
accelerated in June, a sign supporting the  Federal Reserve ’s
forecast that the economy will strengthen in the second half of
2011.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending stagnated in May as employment prospects
dimmed and rising inflation caused Americans to cut back,
Commerce Department figures showed June 27. Employer’s added
54,000 workers in May, the fewest in eight months, and the cost
of living excluding food and energy prices rose by the most
since July 2008, according to Labor Department data.  In June, payrolls expanded by 100,000, while the
unemployment rate held at 9.1 percent, the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey showed ahead of the Labor Department’s July 8
report.  Fed officials attributed some of the slowdown in the first
half of this year to “factors that are likely to be temporary,
including the damping effect of higher food and energy prices on
consumer purchasing power and spending,” along with factory
disruptions from the aftermath of  Japan ’s March earthquake. The
recovery is “continuing at a moderate pace,” the policy makers
said in a June 22 statement.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 5.6 percent last week
for its biggest weekly rally since July 2009 on optimism the
expansion will strengthen through the end of the year.  Gasoline Prices  Surging gasoline prices have started to wane. Retail fuel
costs dropped 11 percent on July 3 from $3.99 per gallon in May,
the highest since July 2008, according to figures from AAA, the
nation’s largest auto club.  FedEx, operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline, is
among companies projecting business will improve. The Memphis,
Tennessee-based carrier forecast full-year earnings that may top
analysts’ estimates as demand climbs.  “The near-term softness in the economy will be temporary
as fuel prices have retreated from their April highs and the
Japanese economy recovers,”  Fred Smith , chairman and chief
executive officer of FedEx, said on a June 22 conference call.
“The industrial sector will lead growth in the U.S. and
overseas in the next two years, supporting shipping demand.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  