-- 
U.S. and Mexico Sign Pact to Resolve 15-Year Cross-Border Trucking Dispute

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-07-06T20:13:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/u-s-and-mexico-sign-pact-to-resolve-15-year-cross-border-trucking-dispute.html
The U.S. and Mexican governments
reached an accord today to resolve a more than 15-year cross-
border trucking dispute that will lift punitive tariffs on about
$2.4 billion of U.S. goods.  Under the agreements signed today in  Mexico  City by U.S.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and Mexican Communications
and Transportation Minister Dionisio Perez-Jacome, Mexico will
suspend half of the tariffs within 10 days. The rest will be
eliminated when the first Mexican trucking company is allowed to
deliver goods into the U.S. The tariffs range between 5 percent
and 25 percent.  “The agreements signed today are a win for roadway safety
and they are a win for trade,” LaHood said in a statement.  The conflict dates back to December 1995 when the U.S.
cited safety concerns to block North American Free Trade
Agreement rules permitting Mexican trucks to cross beyond a 25-
mile border zone. Since NAFTA took effect in 1994, total trade
between the two countries has jumped more than fourfold to $384
billion in 2010, according to Mexico’s statistics agency.  Mexican trucks must comply with all Federal Motor Vehicle
Safety Standards and have monitoring systems to track hours on
the road, the Transportation Department said. Also, truck
drivers must take drug tests that are analyzed in the U.S., hand
over complete driving records and prove their English-language
skills.  Provisional Permit  Mexican trucks will be allowed to carry loads to a U.S.
destination and bring cargo back to Mexico. They won’t be able
to deliver goods between two U.S. cities. U.S. trucks will be
allowed to circulate in Mexico under the same guidelines.  Trucking companies can obtain an 18-month provisional
permit to operate in the U.S. that will become permanent if they
pass two inspections to ensure they meet safety requirements,
according to a Mexican transportation ministry statement. The
request for permits begins tomorrow and the first ones may be
awarded in August, the statement said.  “The agreement reached by both governments provides
transportation-operating rules that give legal certainty to the
participants and their investments,” the statement said.  U.S. independent truckers have opposed a cross-border
trucking agreement because of safety concerns and the lower
wages paid to Mexican truckers.  U.S. Truckers’ Lawsuit  “This program will jeopardize the livelihoods of tens of
thousands of U.S.-based small-business truckers and professional
truck drivers and undermine the standard of living for the rest
of the driver community,” Todd Spencer, executive vice
president of the Grain Valley, Missouri-based Owner-Operator
Independent Drivers Association, said in a statement.  The trade group, known as OOIDA, filed a petition today in
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the  District of Columbia 
requesting a review of the program.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce praised the accord as a step
toward fully lifting the punitive tariffs and boosting U.S.
exports to Mexico. The Chamber said an internal study showed
25,000 jobs are at risk if the trucking spate isn’t ended.  “This is a vital step toward a more efficient U.S.-Mexico
border,” Thomas J. Donohue, president and chief executive
officer of the Chamber, said in a statement. “We urge Congress
to support this agreement and let this dispute be brought to an
end.”  Now, because of the trucking limitations, truckers drop
trailers at the border before crossing. Older rigs, often called
transfers, pick them up to cross and leave them for a long-haul
truck waiting on the other side.  A previous attempt to resolve the problem failed after the
U.S. canceled a cross-border trucking certification program in
March 2009. Only 157 Mexican trucks took part in that pilot
program. The U.S. announced in January it would hold talks with
Mexico to resolve the dispute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  