-- 
Job Gains in Private Sector Are Illusory for U.S.: Alan Tonelson

-- B y   A l a n   T o n e l s o n
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/u-s-job-gains-in-private-sector-are-illusory-commentary-by-alan-tonelson.html
As bad as the U.S. employment picture
looks, the official Labor Department figures understate the
magnitude of the crisis.  Creating private-sector jobs -- not adding to government
payrolls -- is the key to achieving a genuine recovery. But
employment statistics define the private sector far too broadly.
The numbers include too many industries in which demand, and
therefore employment, depends heavily on subsidies.  Health care is responsible for most of the over-count --
which can be estimated with some confidence using Labor
Department data -- with social-service providers and private
education institutions also contributing to the problem.  The latest  jobs report  for May shows just how badly these
sectors distort the employment figures. According to the Labor
Department, private businesses added 83,000 jobs compared with
April levels, falling far short of forecasts. (Figures for both
months are still preliminary.) By subtracting the 34,000 jobs
added in the health-care, social-service and education sectors,
the number of new private-sector positions shrinks to just
49,000.  Since the recession officially ended in June 2009, the
disparity has been much wider. Private-sector employment grew by
a seasonally adjusted 980,000 in the last two years. That pales
beside the 7.7 million private-sector jobs lost during the
recession, but at least optimists can call it a start.  Yet after subtracting the subsidized private-sector totals,
this modest employment recovery becomes positively dismal:
Almost 8.4 million genuine private-sector jobs were lost during
the recession, and only 291,000 have been regained.  Numbers Rise Slightly  The May employment report showed that private-sector
positions represented 83.1 percent of all nonfarm jobs, up
slightly from 82.7 percent at the recession’s end. But when the
economic contraction began in December 2007, the private sector
accounted for 83.8 percent of total U.S. employment.  The longer-term trends are even more striking. Using the
official definition and March data (ensuring that all figures
are final), the private sector’s share of total employment since
1950 has fallen to 83.1 percent from 86.2 percent -- a 3.6
percent drop. Using the more realistic definition, the true
decline went to 67.9 percent from 81.4 percent, for a 16.6
percent plunge.  Obviously, these figures should be taken with a few grains
of salt. The fields of medicine, education and social services,
while heavily subsidized, are not nationalized, so not all those
jobs can be called public-sector ones.  Reclassifying Jobs  At the same time, the Labor Department doesn’t include
health insurance, pharmaceutical manufacturing or medical- and
surgical-equipment jobs under the health-care sector. Instead,
it classifies all of those positions under insurance or
manufacturing. If counted under health care, the true private-
sector employment picture would shrink even more.  Given the huge subsidies for housing, many construction
jobs arguably should be removed from the private-sector
category, too. Then there’s the Defense Department and agencies
dealing with  homeland security , which don’t have a Labor
Department category. But corporate data and widely accepted
estimates about the defense subcontracting workforce indicate
that it numbers at least half a million.  As a result, factoring in the government’s influence on
insurance, manufacturing, national security and homebuilding
would further reduce the number of unsubsidized private-sector
jobs.  Serious Retooling Needed  The worse-than-expected private-sector employment creation
shows that the government’s recovery strategy needs serious
retooling. The starting point should be a stronger emphasis on
reviving domestic manufacturing because private industry
dominates the national trade flows that must be rebalanced to
reduce America’s exorbitant debts. Manufacturing’s historical
record of generating high-wage jobs and technological innovation
is also matchless.  Given manufacturing’s heavy exposure to frequently
subsidized foreign competition, overhauling U.S. trade policy is
essential. Sanctions to combat  China ’s currency manipulation are
needed, as are stricter “Buy America” rules for government
procurement, to replace imports with domestic products.  Whatever the policy choices, they are sure to be sounder
with  better data . Even in prosperous times, flying blind is no
way to manage an economy. Nowadays, it could be positively
disastrous.  (Alan Tonelson is a research fellow at the U.S. Business
and Industry Council, which represents almost 2,000 domestic
manufacturing companies. He is the author of “The Race to the
Bottom: Why a Worldwide Worker Surplus and Uncontrolled  Free
Trade  Are Sinking American Living Standards.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View op-eds .  To contact the writer of this op-ed: Alan Tonelson at
 tonelson@usbusiness.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this op-ed: Paula Dwyer at
 pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 