-- 
Service Industries in U.S. Expand at Slower Pace in Sign Economy Cooling

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-07-06T20:40:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/u-s-ism-services-index-decreased-to-53-3-in-june-from-54-6.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
expanded at a slower pace in June, a sign the economy cooled at
the end of the first half of 2011.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s index of non-
manufacturing businesses decreased to 53.3, less than projected,
from 54.6 in May. Economists forecast the gauge would drop to
53.7, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey. A reading above 50 signals expansion.  Service companies, which account for about 90 percent of
the economy, joined manufacturing last quarter in slowing as a
9.1 percent  unemployment rate  limited consumer spending.
Businesses like  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  project the expansion will pick up
through the rest of the year as gasoline prices provide relief
for households and supply disruptions from Japan abate.  “We’re closing the door on a very disappointing first half
of the year, which wasn’t a disaster but highlights the
fragility and the difficulty of this recovery,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas in
 New York . In coming months, “some of the relief in commodity
prices should help businesses maintain margins and therefore
become a bit more confident in doing things like investing and
hiring,” she said.  Stocks rose, posting their sixth advance in seven days, as
gains in transportation and consumer-staple companies
overshadowed  China ’s interest-rate increase. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.1 percent to 1,339.22 at the 4 p.m.
close in New York. Treasuries rose, pushing down the yield on
the benchmark 10-year note to 3.11 percent from 3.12 percent
late yesterday.  Range of Estimates  Estimates for the index from 71 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg ranged from 51.2 to 56. The Tempe, Arizona-based
group’s index averaged 56.1 in the five years to December 2007,
when the last recession began.  The ISM services survey covers industries ranging from
utilities and retailing to health care and finance. The report
follows the group’s July 1 figures that showed manufacturing
accelerated in June, supporting the  Federal Reserve ’s forecast
for an economic pickup in the second half of 2011.  The non-manufacturing survey’s measure of new orders
decreased to 53.6 from 56.8 the prior month, today’s report
showed. A gauge of order backlogs dropped to the lowest level
this year. A measure of business activity eased to 53.4 from
53.6 in May.  The group’s employment gauge was little changed at 54.1 in
June after 54 a month earlier.  The index of prices paid declined to 60.9 from 69.6.  Slower Spending  Consumer spending  stagnated in May as employment prospects
dimmed and rising inflation caused Americans to cut back, the
Commerce Department said June 27. Labor Department figures
showed employers added 54,000 workers in May, the smallest
number in eight months, and the cost of living excluding food
and energy prices rose the most since July 2008.  In June, payrolls probably expanded by 100,000 while the
unemployment rate held at 9.1 percent, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey ahead of the Labor Department’s
July 8 report.  Fed officials attributed some of the slowdown in the first
half of this year to “factors that are likely to be temporary,
including the damping effect of higher food and energy prices on
consumer purchasing power and spending,” along with factory
disruptions from the aftermath of  Japan ’s March earthquake. The
recovery is “continuing at a moderate pace,” the policy makers
said in a June 22 statement.  Cheaper Gasoline  Gasoline prices have started to ease. Retail fuel costs
dropped 11 percent on July 3 from $3.99 per gallon in May, the
highest since July 2008, according to figures from AAA, the
nation’s largest auto club.  FedEx, operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline, is
among companies projecting business will improve. The Memphis,
Tennessee-based carrier forecast full-year earnings that may top
analysts’ estimates as demand climbs.  “The near-term softness in the economy will be temporary
as fuel prices have retreated from their April highs and the
Japanese economy recovers,”  Fred Smith , chairman and chief
executive officer of FedEx, said on a June 22 conference call.
“The industrial sector will lead growth in the U.S. and
overseas in the next two years, supporting shipping demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  