-- 
U.S.-Listed China Stocks Drop as Central Bank Raises Rates

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-07-06T22:17:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/u-s-listed-chinese-stocks-decline-after-central-bank-raises-interest-rate.html
China ’s stocks listed in the U.S.
retreated from a one-month high after the nation raised interest
rates for the third time this year to tame inflation that has
quickened to the fastest pace since 2008.  The American Stock Exchange China Index, which tracks
equities and American depositary receipts of Chinese companies,
slid 0.7 percent after an eight-day gain sent the gauge to the
highest since June 2.  Cnooc Ltd. (CEO) , the country’s largest offshore
oil producer, and  China Yuchai International Ltd. (CYD) , a diesel
engines maker, were among the 12 decliners that dragged down the
measure.  China’s interest-rate increase “will probably make people
think a little about whether they’re going to put more money
into China,” Douglas Gonzalez, a vice president of trading at
Cicerone Securities LLC in New York, said by phone. “The
Chinese have to have a better grip on their inflation. That’s
exactly what they’re doing.”  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last month that the
government may not reach an annual inflation target of 4 percent
after the rate was 5.2 percent in the first five months. Besides
raising rates, policy makers have boosted banks’ reserve
requirements to record levels, restricted mortgages and home
purchases, and allowed gains by the yuan against the dollar.  The Bank of New York Mellon China ADR Index measuring
American depositary receipts lost 0.6 percent to 442.04 after
advancing to the highest level in more than a month in the
previous day. The drop yesterday was the first in nine days.
It’s up 4 percent this year. During the same period, ADRs for
Brazilian companies lost 3.5 percent, while those for Russia
declined 12 percent, and  India ’s lost 7.8 percent.  Rate Increases  The People’s Bank of China lifted its benchmark one-year
lending rate by a quarter point to 6.56 percent. The one-year
deposit rate rises to 3.5 percent from 3.25 percent.  The rate increase is likely to be the last this year as
inflation may slow in the coming months, said Yu Song, a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in a note dated
yesterday.  “The government is reluctant to use the tool too often for
concerns on potential hot money inflows amid a widening
domestic-international interest rate spread and the negative
impact on real economic activities,” Song wrote.  Oil Futures  Oil futures fell as much as 1 percent in  New York  after
China’s increase to rates on concern that slower global growth
will crimp fuel consumption. The Shanghai Composite Index slid
0.2 percent yesterday.  “Bearish China sentiment can hardly get worse and the
market will pick up in the second half as fears turn out to be
overdone,” Hong Kong-based equity analysts at HSBC Securities
Asia Ltd. said in a research note yesterday.  Baidu Inc., owner of China’s most popular online search
engine, was among the most favored Chinese stock recommended by
Citigroup Inc. analysts led by Minggao Shen in their research
dated July 5. The company’s ADRs were little changed at $145.84,
near its two-month high reached earlier in the week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  