-- 
U.S. Farmland Five-Year Boom May End as Interest Rates Gain, Rabobank Says

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-07-06T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/u-s-farmland-boom-may-peak-after-five-year-surge-rabobank-says.html
A five-year  bull market  in U.S.
farmland values may peak this year as  interest rates  increase
and crop prices decline, Rabobank International said.  Land costs may fall by as much as 15 percent in the next
seven years, Sterling Liddell and Vernon Crowder, vice
presidents at the bank, said in an interview. Gains in the past
five years ranging from as much as from 70 percent in  Nebraska 
to 20 percent in  California  were spurred by record grain and
livestock prices and the lowest borrowing costs ever, Rabobank
said in a report released today.  “Margins are once again expected to diminish as increases
in the volume of commodity production combine with higher input
costs to squeeze profit margins,” the analysts said in the
report. “The result should be a slowing in U.S. agricultural
land value growth, accompanied by occasional sharp decreases.”  Wheat and corn prices have more than doubled since the
start of 2005 in the U.S. as farmers worldwide failed to keep up
with demand. The boom will generate record income of $94.7
billion this year for American farmers, the government
estimates. At the same time, the U.S.  Federal Reserve ’s
benchmark lending rate has been zero percent to 0.25 percent
since December 2008 as the central bank sought to shore up an
economic recovery.  “Rabobank is forecasting a modest increase in U.S.
interest rates in 2012,” Liddell said in an interview on July
1. “If interest rates return to the historical average of the
1990s in the next three to five years, that would have a
negative impact on farmland.”  Farmland values in parts of 12 central U.S. states were as
much as 23 percent higher than a year earlier by the end of
March, according to data from the Federal Reserve in  Chicago  and
 Kansas City . That may not be the peak, Rabobank said.  ‘Price Spikes’  “We are in a period of continued price volatility, and we
may see additional price spikes,” Liddell, a vice president for
food and agribusiness research at Rabo AgriFinance in  St. Louis ,
said in the interview. This year, farmers were hit with flooding
in some areas and drought in others, and until the crop is
harvested, there may be swings in agricultural prices, he said.  The cost of agricultural land is justified by the income
generated, and the investment isn’t a bubble, Liddell said. The
ratio of debt to equity in farm property has been declining
since the mid-1980s, the researchers said. Debt as a percentage
of the value of assets averaged about 7 percent in the past five
years, compared with 10 percent in the 1990s and more than 13
percent in the 1980s.  The gains in the value of  farmland  outpaced the expansion
in debt, driving debt-to-asset ratios near record lows, Brian
Briggemann, an economist at the  Kansas City  Federal Reserve,
said in a June report. A 10 percent plunge in values in a year,
the biggest decline recorded during the 1980s, would have a
modest impact on most producers, even the most debt-laden, he
said.  The trend in the debt-to-value ratio suggests lenders have
been “conservative” and the highest-ever farm income means
there should be enough money to service the debt, Liddell of
Rabobank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in  Chicago  at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  