-- 
Uganda Central Bank Sets New Benchmark Interest Rate at 13%

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o
-- 
2011-07-06T10:11:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/uganda-central-bank-sets-benchmark-rate-at-13-in-bid-to-target-inflation.html
Uganda ’s central bank set its new
benchmark interest rate at 13 percent as a first step towards
implementing an inflation-targeting policy.  The Bank of Uganda will aim to bring the core inflation
rate to 5 percent “over the medium term,” Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile told reporters in the capital, Kampala,
today. The key interest rate will be set monthly to help guide
commercial bank lending rates, he said.  Core inflation, which excludes food, energy and water
costs, accelerated to an annual 12.2 percent in June from 11.3
percent in May, according to the statistics office. The headline
inflation rate in Uganda,  Africa ’s second-largest coffee
producer, rocketed to a 17-year high of 16 percent in May,
fueling protests by residents over rising food and energy costs.  “The Central Bank Rate will be set at a level that is
consistent with moving  core inflation  towards the Bank of
Uganda’s policy target of 5 percent over the medium term,”
Tumusiime-Mutebile said. The rate “will be used to guide the
seven-day interbank interest rate.”  Previously, the bank had targeted money supply growth in
order to curb inflation.  The core inflation rate will probably drop to between 10
percent and 12 percent in the third quarter, while headline
inflation is expected to ease to between 12 percent and 14
percent in the same period, Adam Mugume, a director of research
at the central bank, said at the press conference today.  Uganda is scheduled to become an oil producer next year
when  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  starts pumping crude and gas from the Lake
Albert Basin. The East African nation has a population of 31.7
million and an economy of $16 billion, according to the  World
Bank .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  