-- 
Hugo Boss May Lift Profitability Goal This Month on Stores, Asia

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-07-06T09:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/hugo-boss-may-lift-profitability-goal-this-month-on-stores-asia.html
Hugo Boss AG (BOS)  may raise its 2015
profitability goal as soon as this month as the German luxury
clothier expands its own-brand chain and in Asia, analysts
including Bankhaus Lampe’s Christoph Schlienkamp said.  Hugo Boss may set a target of earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation, amortization and one-time items at 22
percent of sales from the current 20 percent aim, Schlienkamp
said. The clothier will probably revise the outlook when it
reports half-year figures on July 28, he said.  China , where demand for expensive men’s wear is rising,
will probably become Metzingen-based Hugo Boss’s third-largest
market this year, overtaking  France  and the U.K. while still
lagging behind Germany and the U.S., Chief Financial Officer
Mark Langer said last month. The clothier has said the Hugo
Boss-branded stores are likely to raise their portion of group
sales to almost 50 percent by 2015 from 40 percent in 2010.  “Hugo Boss is successfully building up its own-store and
 Asia  activities, which are both more profitable than other
businesses,” Schlienkamp said in an interview at his office in
Dusseldorf, Germany.  The clothier’s Ebitda margin last year was 19.4 percent of
sales, with the figure reaching 20.2 percent excluding one-time
gains or costs. Hugo Boss is likely to report an unadjusted
margin of 22.4 percent as early as 2014, said Herbert Sturm, an
analyst at  DZ Bank  in Frankfurt who thinks the 2015 target will
be raised. The figure on that basis could total 22.6 percent by
2013, Rogerio Fujimori a London-based Credit Suisse AG analyst,
said in a research report.  Hjoerdis Kettenbach, a Hugo Boss spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the analysts’ estimates.  Schlienkamp has a “hold” rating on  Hugo Boss  stock, while
Sturm recommends investors buy the shares and Fujimori has an
“outperform” recommendation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 