-- 
Ukraine’s Government Seeks Higher Grain Prices for Farmers

-- B y   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 
2011-07-06T12:54:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/ukraine-s-government-seeks-higher-grain-prices-for-farmers.html
The Ukrainian government plans to buy
3 million metric tons of grain domestically in an attempt to
boost prices and producers’ revenues.  “Prices have declined sharply as the new harvest is
expected,” First Deputy Prime Minister Andriy Klyuev said at a
weekly government meeting in Kiev today.  Klyuev said he asked the  Agriculture Ministry  and the
Economy Ministry to take steps so that “prices at domestic
market are at least break-even” in order to establish
“stability” in the grain market.  Domestic grain prices have been “much lower than we
planned or expected,” since the start of the season on July 1,
Mykola Prysyazhnyuk, the agriculture minister said, adding the
government wants to stimulate the market.  Barley prices, for example, have fallen 24 percent to $188
a ton from $246 a ton at the beginning of June, said Liza
Malyshko, a grain analyst at UkrAgroConsult, a Kiev-based
agriculture researcher.  Outbound shipments of barley are being taxed at 14 percent,
corn at 12 percent and wheat at 9 percent from July 1 through
December. Last year, domestic food price concerns led the
government of Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  to restrict grain
exports for almost eight months.  “We will remove excess of grain from the market,”
Prysyazhnyuk said, adding the government wants prices to be more
inline with global exchanges.  The Agrarian Fund will spend 5 billion hryvnia ($630
million) to make forward and spot purchases of milling wheat,
cereals, sugar, butter and dry milk, the minister said.  The government has asked the central bank to extend payment
terms for loans received by farmers, Klyuyev said. They have
borrowed 32 billion hryvnia and 12.3 billion hrynvia worth of
the loans are for less than one year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  