-- 
Humala Will Assure Clinton He’s No Peruvian Chavez During Washington Visit

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-07-06T23:37:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/humala-will-assure-clinton-he-s-no-peruvian-chavez-during-washington-visit.html
President-elect Ollanta Humala sought
to assure U.S. officials as he visited  Washington  today that
Peru under his leadership won’t allow relations with its biggest
trading partner to sour.  Humala discussed economic relations and drug trafficking
with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  before meeting President
 Barack Obama  at the White House.  The 49-year-old former army rebel will use his one-day trip
to Washington to try to allay concerns he’ll restrict investment
when he takes office July 28, said  Michael Shifter , president of
the Inter-American Dialogue, a policy research group.  “Humala has become more moderate and more centrist, and
this is an opportunity for him to tell the U.S. administration
who he is and what his positions are,” said Shifter in a
telephone interview from Washington. “The U.S. won’t be a high
priority for the Humala administration, but he’ll want to have
good relations on trade, drugs and other issues.”  The U.S. has indicated it wants to cultivate ties with the
resource-rich nation at a time when  China  is playing a larger
role in Latin America.  ‘Improve Relations’  At a joint press conference in Washington today, Clinton
said the U.S. “stands ready to be Peru’s partner” while Humala
said he plans to strengthen ties between the two countries.  “Relations are good, but we want to improve them during my
government,” Humala said.  Humala, a one-time ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ,
rattled investors during the presidential campaign with pledges
to revise mining contracts and free-trade agreements with the
U.S. and other nations. Like Chavez, who as a paratrooper in
1992 led a coup attempt, Humala as an army lieutenant colonel in
2000 led 50 soldiers who seized and occupied for a week one of
Phoenix-based  Southern Copper Corp (SCCO) ’s mines to protest corruption
in the government of then-President Alberto Fujimori.  Humala shifted his stance during this year’s campaign to
defend policies that made Peru the fastest-growing Latin
American economy over the past decade. Instead of Chavez, whom
he praised during an unsuccessful presidential bid in 2006, he
said he now will seek to emulate the business-friendly policies
of former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  in  Brazil .  ‘Mutual Respect’  Humala told reporters in Washington today that Peru wants a
relationship with the U.S. based on “mutual respect and
reciprocity” while using the nations’ free trade agreement to
boost the Peruvian economy. Humala said he’ll also seek an
“optimal” relationship with  Venezuela .  The 49-year old president-elect said he aims to
“strengthen democracy in the Americas through the OAS,” after
a meeting with Jose Miguel Insulza, secretary-general of the
 Organization of American States .  “One of the most pressing tasks is to de-ideologize
international relations,” Humala said. “Any ideological
confrontation between states risks opening fissures that are
difficult to close.”  Peru, the world’s largest silver producer and third largest
in copper, has seen gross domestic product expand an average 5.7
percent a year over the past decade. It will lead  Latin America 
with 6.6 percent economic growth this year after expanding 8.8
percent in 2010, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 has fallen 66 basis points
since the initial sell-off triggered by Humala’s June 5 election
victory, while the Lima General Index of stocks has dropped 8.3
percent.  Investor Worries  Investors remain concerned that once in office the
Nationalist Party leader will fulfill earlier pledges to rewrite
the constitution and unilaterally boost mining royalties.  President Alan Garcia signed free-trade agreements with the
U.S. in 2007 and China in 2009 and completed trade talks with
the European Union last year. Humala’s 198-page campaign
platform said Garcia “has indiscriminately opened our internal
market to subsidized products from other countries” and that
the agreements will be revised where necessary.  Humala’s visit to Washington comes when competition for
natural resources in Latin America is heating up. The U.S.
accounted for 16 percent of  Peru ’s exports and 19 percent of its
imports last year. The Andean nation shipped to the U.S. $5.7
billion in exports, mainly gold, copper and gasoline. China,
Peru’s No. 2 trading partner in 2010, overtook the U.S. as the
biggest market for Peruvian goods in the first five months of
this year.  Brazil and  Chile   A similar dynamic is evident elsewhere in  South America .
China, the world’s second-largest economy, passed the U.S. as
Brazil’s biggest trading partner in 2009 after becoming Chile’s
leading export market in 2007.  Peru’s mineral and natural gas wealth has lured companies
including Dallas-based Hunt Oil Co., which led the $4 billion
Peru LNG project, the Andean nation’s largest-ever investment.
 Greenwood Village , Colorado-based  Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  owns
Yanacocha, Latin America’s biggest gold mine, and is investing
$3 billion in a gold and copper deposit in the country.  The U.S. is also concerned about rising illegal drug output
in Peru. The nation last year rivaled  Colombia  as the world’s
largest producer of cocaine after a government eradication
program failed to stem rising cultivation of coca, the raw
material used to make the drug, according to a United Nations
 group . In his campaign platform, Humala vowed to stop the forced
eradication of coca, a program for which Peru receives U.S.
anti-narcotics aid.  Since being elected June 5, Humala has said Peru needs U.S.
support in its fight against drugs.  “The trip is an opportunity for Humala to recast his
reputation in Washington, which is based on a lot of gossip,”
said Larry Birns, director of the Council on Hemispheric Affairs,
a Washington-based research group. “Ollanta will do what Brazil
has done and say we feel we can have cordial relations with
Venezuela and Cuba and the U.S. We don’t have to pick sides.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  