-- 
UN Seeks Women’s Rights With Legal Protection From Violence

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-07-06T19:07:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/un-seeks-justice-for-women-with-legal-protection-from-violence.html
The United Nations is stepping up
pressure on governments to overturn laws and end policies that
deny women access to legal systems, control of their bodies and
protection from violence, said former Chilean President  Michelle Bachelet , head of a UN agency promoting  women’s rights .  “In every place, we are working to identify laws that
discriminate against women” and overturn them, Bachelet, the
under-secretary-general in charge of the agency known as  UN
Women , said in an interview with Bloomberg News in  New York .  UN Women, established a year ago by the General Assembly.
released its first report today. Bachelet said the findings will
stimulate debate on women’s legal issues, showcase innovative
programs that advance gender equity, and provide benchmarks to
measure future progress.  The 165-page report said that 30 of the 186 countries that
ratified the 1979  Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination Against Women  have enacted legal “reservations”
limiting marital or familial rights.  “For many millions of women, justice remains out of
reach,” Bachelet said. “The rule of law rules out women.”  The report found that 127 nations don’t explicitly
criminalize rape within marriage, 61 severely restrict abortion
rights, and 50 have a lower legal age of marriage for women than
for men. Only 11 percent of sexual assaults are reported, and
“only a fraction of cases end in a conviction or just
outcome,” the report said.  Tailored Efforts  The UN’s efforts are tailored to individual nations,
Bachelet said. In Tunisia and  Egypt , the goal is to ensure that
women are participants in the transition to democracy. UN Women
is training judges in Liberia to handle rape cases, developing
laws in Kyrgyzstan to enable equal access to inheritances, and
advising Albania’s leaders on how to increase participation of
women in government.  “You cannot come in from outside and impose a recipe,”
Bachelet said. “We are demand-driven. To make changes that are
sustainable, we need to involve the governments.”  Financial support is an issue, Assistant Secretary-General
John Hendra, a top aide to Bachelet, said in an interview.  “Our pockets are not deep,” he said. “Our role is to
stimulate focus on these issues. We are telling governments they
need to put more resources into these areas and walk the talk.
Women can’t afford justice.”  Funding Priorities  Hendra said UN Women has only $225 million of a budgeted
$300 million for programs to advance women’s legal rights in
2011. He also noted that of $4.2 billion allocated for justice
issues by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development in 2009, only 5 percent of that money targeted legal
barriers to gender equity.  The report also showcases advances from 1911, when only two
nations allowed women to vote. Today, 173 countries guarantee
paid maternity leave and 115 mandate equal property rights, and
parliaments in 28 are composed of at least 30 percent women,
according to the UN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  