-- 
Huntington Ingalls Seeks Alternatives to Closing Avondale

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-07-06T21:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/huntington-ingalls-seeks-alternatives-to-closing-avondale-1-.html
Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc.,
the U.S. Navy’s largest shipbuilder, may keep its Avondale,
 Louisiana  shipyard open beyond 2013 by turning it into a site
for other manufacturing, Chief Executive Officer Michael Petters
said.  While the “plan is to finish work and close the facility”
at Avondale, “I’m open to alternatives to that,” Petters said
in an interview at his Washington office. Petters said he was
“working very hard” to find partners and closing the plant is
“the least desired outcome.”  Huntington, with 2010 sales of $6.7 billion, became a
separate company in March when  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  spun off
its shipbuilding unit. Former parent Northrop and Huntington
have said the Avondale yard would be shut when work on the
Navy’s two amphibious ships there is completed in 2013.  Huntington, based in Newport News,  Virginia , operates two
other yards. One is in its home city and the other at
Pascagoula,  Mississippi .  Avondale, with 4,800 workers, is the largest private
employer in Louisiana, according to Huntington. In July, 2010,
when Huntington’s former parent Northrop announced its plan to
shut the yard, the state’s Republican governor, Bobby Jindal,
said he would work to find alternative uses for the site.  The 268-acre Avondale site, about 10 miles upriver from  New
Orleans , would be suitable for “heavy manufacturing, whether in
energy or in marine” applications, Petters said. “The question
is, is there a partner,” he said.  Pentagon Grant  The  Department of Defense  in May awarded Louisiana a $1.48
million grant to assist the state in studying alternative uses
for the Avondale yard, Stephen Moret, the secretary of the
Louisiana Economic Development office, said in an e-mail.  The state is supplementing the Pentagon grant with $165,000
for a total of $1.65 million, Moret said. The development office
has hired Chicago-based consulting firm  A.T. Kearney , Inc. to
study Avondale’s capabilities and identify other uses including
other shipbuilding work and manufacturing industries that may
use the yard, Moret said.  Moret declined to offer details citing a non-disclosure
agreement with Huntington. The study may take eight months to
complete, he said.  In May, Representative Cedric Richmond, a Louisiana
Democrat whose district includes the Avondale yard, proposed an
amendment to the 2012  defense budget  that would have barred
Huntington from receiving $310 million in federal assistance for
the planned closure of the shipyard. The amendment failed to
garner enough votes.  $310 Million  Petters said the Pentagon’s procurement rules allow a
contractor to recover costs for closing facilities if a company
can demonstrate that doing so would yield “net savings for the
government.” The company has filed documents seeking about $310
million if Avondale is shut as planned, Petters said.  Huntington has told the Navy that closing Avondale would
yield savings of $600 million from 2013 through 2019, Navy
spokeswoman Captain Cate Mueller said in an e-mail. The Navy is
in discussions with Huntington on the proposed restructure costs
and no agreement has been reached, she said.  If Huntington transfers Avondale to a different owner, the
Navy “would assist in making the yard more competitive for
commercial shipbuilding work,” Mueller said.  The Navy may sign an agreement with Huntington under the
Shipbuilding Capability Preservation Act that allows a Navy
shipbuilder to claim indirect costs attributable to private
sector work as allowable costs on Navy contracts, Mueller said.  30-Year Plan  Huntington was forced to consider shutting Avondale because
the U.S. Navy’s 30-year shipbuilding plan released in 2010
called for canceling two $2 billion command ships that would
have been built at the yard, Petters said. “That made it
inevitable there would be no work for Avondale.”  Of five LPD-17 Navy transport ships completed since 2000 at
Pascagoula and Avondale, three needed to return for repairs
after the Navy found poor-quality welding or lubrication-oil
contaminants that damaged the ships’ engines.  Huntington’s former parent Northrop took a $326 million
pretax charge in April 2008 for exceeding budget and delays on
one class of ship, and $105 million more in July 2009 for cost
increases to finish vessels from two other classes.  Cable Cars  While seeking alternative uses for Avondale, Petters said
he wouldn’t get into any unfamiliar businesses. For example,
“many years ago at  Newport News  we built cable cars there to
fill in work,” Petters said. “The fact you can do it doesn’t
mean we should do it.”  Avondale is currently building two LPD-17 class Navy
transport ships. Huntington’s yard in Pascagoula builds DDG-51
destroyers, amphibious assault ships as well as later orders for
the LPD-17 transport vessels.  Newport News is the sole builder of the U.S. Navy’s
nuclear-powered aircraft carriers and shares work on nuclear-
powered submarines with  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Bath Iron
Works.  Huntington rose 61 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $35.25 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have declined 12 percent since the company was listed on the New
York Stock Exchange on April 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  