-- 
Murdoch Becomes Dangerous for Cameron as Phone-Hacking Scandal Escalates

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-07T10:51:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/murdoch-gets-dangerous-for-cameron.html
For three decades, Britain’s powerful
have sought close relations with Rupert Murdoch and his
newspapers. Now politicians, police and businesses are all
finding that closeness is becoming dangerous.  News International said late yesterday it will investigate
allegations its News of the World tabloid hacked the phones of
relatives of dead soldiers, after reports that the voicemail of
murder and terror victims was intercepted.
 J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  and Mitsubishi Motors Corp. joined companies
pulling advertising. Senior policemen who  dined editors  of the
paper now have 45 detectives investigating it.  As Murdoch’s News Corp. attempts to win approval for buying
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , politicians are questioning
the extent of his power. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is under
pressure for hiring a former editor of the News of The World who
had already resigned over phone-hacking. The police must now
deal with allegations the newspaper made payments to officers.  “We have let one man have far too great a sway over our
national life,” Labour lawmaker Chris Bryant told Parliament in
London in an emergency debate yesterday. “Murdoch is not
resident here, does not pay tax here. No other country would
allow one man to garner four national newspapers, the second
largest broadcaster, a monopoly on sports rights and first-view
movies.”  Shares Fall  News Corp. (NWSA)  stock fell 3.6 percent to A$16.55 in Sydney
after declining 3.6 percent yesterday in  New York . BSkyB fell
1.5 percent to 814.5 pence at 8:55 a.m. in London.  Trinity
Mirror Plc (TNI) , publisher of rival tabloid the Sunday Mirror, surged
17 percent yesterday on expectations it will gain advertising
revenue from companies withdrawing from the News of the World.
It was up another 1.5 percent today.  Politicians have long courted the support of the newspapers
run by News Corp.’s News International division. The News of the
World, the biggest selling Sunday paper, has a daily sister, The
Sun, which has backed the winner in every election since 1979,
when it supported  Margaret Thatcher .  “There was a synergy between her and the paper -- they
were both pursuing the same kind of goals, and she appealed to
its southern working-class readership,”  Justin Fisher ,
professor of politics at Brunel University, said in a telephone
interview. “When  Tony Blair  was prime minister, the paper was a
consistent cheerleader for him.”  BSkyB Decision  Two hours before yesterday’s debate, Cameron promised
inquiries into the police’s early investigations of phone-
hacking “and why that did not get to the bottom of what has
happened” and also “a wider look into media practices and
ethics in this country.”  Still, the prime minister insisted the current furor offers
no legal basis for Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt to postpone a
decision on approving News Corp.’s 7.8 billion-pound ($12.5
billion) bid for the 61 percent of BSkyB it doesn’t own.  Ed Miliband , the leader of the opposition  Labour Party ,
said Cameron was “out of touch.”  “The public will not accept the idea that with this
scandal engulfing the News of the World and News International,
the government should in the coming days be making a decision
outside the normal processes for them to take control of one of
the biggest media organizations in the country,” Miliband told
Cameron.  Ad Suspension  The Labour leader is “trying to present himself as the
clean voice of reason in all this,” Wyn Grant, professor of
politics at Warwick University, said in a telephone interview.
“Cameron is implicated because he gave Coulson a job.”  The decision on approving the takeover will be delayed
until the fall amid the hacking allegations, the Daily Mail
newspaper reported, citing unidentified government officials.  Sainsbury, the U.K.’s third-largest supermarket chain, and
 Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  of Japan said on their Twitter sites
that they would pull ads from News of the World. General Motors
Co., Lloyds Banking Group Plc,  Ford Motor Co. (F) , RWE AG, and Co-
operative Group have also announced suspensions.  Blair, the last man to lead Labour in opposition before
Miliband, flew to Australia to address a meeting of News Corp.
executives as he sought to woo Murdoch in the mid-1990s.  Miliband yesterday demanded the resignation of Rebekah Brooks, the chief executive officer of News International, who
was editor of the News of the World when some of the hacking is
alleged to have happened. Murdoch, 80, later issued a statement
in which he stood by her.  Another Labour lawmaker,  Tom Watson , demanded action
against  James Murdoch , Rupert’s 38-year-old son, who runs News
Corp.’s European operations.  ‘Cover-Up’  Watson referred to the News of the World’s statement to a
parliamentary committee in 2009 that James Murdoch had approved
a 700,000-pound payment to a phone-hacking victim that was
accompanied by a non-disclosure agreement. The company had been
trying to organize a “cover-up,” the lawmaker said.  “It is clear now that he personally, and without board
approval, authorized money to be paid by his company to silence
people who’d been hacked,” Watson said. “This is nothing short
of an attempt to pervert the course of justice.”  Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne , who last year was caught
having an affair by the News of the World, said the inquiries
should be led by a judge, with people giving evidence under
oath.  Criminal Charges?  “The key thing is to bring criminal charges,” Huhne told
 BBC  Radio 4 today. Asked if Brooks should quit, Huhne, a former
journalist, said it was “a matter for her,” before going on to
observe that “an editor knows what’s going on. Either they know
what’s going on or they’re frankly incompetent.”  Another News Corp. newspaper, the London-based Times,
reported today that journalists suspected of involvement in
hacking were expected to be arrested within days, without saying
where it got the information. Hacking involves dialing into
someone else’s mobile phone and then listening to the owner’s
voicemail after obtaining the access code by guesswork or
otherwise.  From 2007, when one of its reporters was jailed for phone-
hacking, to 2010, News International has denied that there was
any widespread culture of illegality at the newspaper. The
company was supported in this by  London ’s Metropolitan Police,
which said there wasn’t enough evidence to support further
prosecutions.  Coulson Quits  The balance tipped in January. With more celebrities such
as actor Jude Law and interior designer Kelly Hoppen suing the
paper, evidence came to light that led to the suspension of one
of the paper’s executives. In the following three weeks, Coulson
announced he was resigning from his job in Cameron’s office and
News International handed over a file of information to the
police, who opened a fresh investigation.  Metropolitan Police Commissioner Paul Stephenson confirmed
yesterday that News International had passed the police evidence
of payments to some of its officers. The BBC reported that these
payments had been authorized by Coulson when he was editor of
the News of the World. Stephenson said he had begun a police
corruption investigation.  “Anyone identified of wrongdoing can expect the full
weight of disciplinary measures and, if appropriate, action
through the criminal courts,” Stephenson said, adding that no
senior officers were alleged to be involved.  Police Pressure  “What the public need to know is that the police are going
to go about their job properly,” Cameron told lawmakers
yesterday.  According to Warwick University’s Grant, that may be one of
the lasting effects of the scandal. “The police have always had
a very close relationship with the tabloid press,” he said.
“That may not survive this.”  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne’s office said
he’d been told by police yesterday that a private detective
working for the News of the World had his phone number.  Ivor Gaber, research professor in media and politics at the
University of Bedfordshire, said there’s no certainty how
Murdoch will emerge from the scandal.  In the mid-1980s, Murdoch faced down labor unions resisting
the introduction of new technology after secretly establishing a
new production plant at Wapping in east London. His victory in
the dispute changed Britain’s newspaper industry.  “It could be a turning point, but there are turning points
where history refuses to turn,” Gaber said in a telephone
interview. “Never underestimate the capacity of  Rupert Murdoch 
to survive a crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 