-- 
Erdogan Appoints Third-Term Cabinet as Main Opposition Boycotts Parliament

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-07-06T13:59:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/turkey-s-erdogan-names-cabinet-amid-opposition-boycott-of-parliament.html
Turkey’s Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  unveiled a 25-member Cabinet tasked with rewriting the
constitution and expanding the economy in his third term.  The restructured ministries are little changed from the
premier’s last term in office, with key deputies including  Ali Babacan , Ahmet Davutoglu, Mehmet Simsek and Bulent Arinc
retaining their posts, Erdogan said today in Ankara.  Erdogan has promised to rewrite the constitution drafted
after a 1980 coup by the secularist military. He needs support
from at least three opposition lawmakers to put the new charter
to a referendum and votes from 40 to pass it straight into law.
His party faces an unprecedented opposition boycott in
parliament, with about a third of the 550-member assembly
refusing to take the oath of office, protesting court and
electoral board decisions barring nine jailed lawmakers from
joining the legislature.  “The main opposition party is neglecting its duty by not
participating in parliament,” Erdogan said after announcing the
cabinet. “Our desire is that the opposition will be sworn in
and take its place in the assembly.”  Erdogan will on July 8 present his agenda to parliament,
which will hold a vote of confidence as soon as July 13 and no
later than July 15, when the assembly is scheduled to adjourn
until October.  Economic Growth  Gross domestic product growth has averaged more than 5
percent annually since Erdogan’s  Justice and Development Party ,
or AKP, took office, compared with 1.5 percent in the previous
five years, according to data on the Treasury’s website.  Babacan, who has overseen Turkey’s economic recovery from a
banking crisis in 2001 and subsequent record growth, was
reappointed as a deputy prime minister. Simsek remains finance
minister,Zafer Caglayan will be the minister in charge of
foreign trade and Taner Yildiz continues as head of the Energy
Ministry.  “The picture seems to be one of continuity,”  Inan Demir ,
chief economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said today in an
e-mail. “Continuation of Babacan and Simsek in their posts
constitutes a market friendly line-up.”  Foreign Minister Davutoglu, architect of the “zero-
problems” with neighbors doctrine, kept his post as  Turkey 
hosts more than 9,000 Syrian refugees fleeing a crackdown and
prepares to host the next Libya contact-group meeting.  EU’s Boycott Concern  Arinc, an AKP founder who has also served as speaker of
parliament, stays on as deputy prime minister. The premier named
Egemen Bagis, previously Turkey’s lead negotiator with the
European Union, to head the newly created ministry in charge of
affairs with the 27-member bloc.  The EU is monitoring the parliamentary boycott “closely
and with concern,” spokeswoman Maja Kocijancic said yesterday,
according to state-run Anatolia news agency.  Main opposition Republican  People’s Party , or CHP’s two
members are imprisoned in connection with investigations into
alleged coup plots to topple Erdogan’s Islamic-leaning
government. The defendants and the CHP have called the trial a
“witch hunt” against government opponents.  ‘High-Risk Game’  “The CHP are playing a high-risk game over this issue, but
the risk is that Erdogan calls their bluff, with the CHP losing
yet more political capital as a result,” Tim Ash, chief
economist for emerging markets at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in  London , said today in an report before the cabinet was
announced. “Indications are that we might see the party
relent.”  Independents backed by the pro-Kurdish Peace and Democracy
Party, or BDP, are in jail on allegations of supporting the
Kurdistan Workers’ Party, which is listed as a terrorist
organization by Turkey, the U.S. and the European Union.  CHP and BDP-backed lawmakers refused to be sworn in to
parliament June 28. Erdogan said today that the AKP won’t press
for a July 15 deadline to resolve the boycott.  The week-long protest may be resolved after main opposition
leader  Kemal Kilicdaroglu  meets with Cemil Cicek, the speaker of
parliament, according to Hurriyet newspaper. Cicek is expected
to take on an “active” role to solve the problem in exchange
for CHP deputies taking their oath and joining the legislature.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden in Dubai at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 