-- 
Verizon Pays Record $20 Million to End U.S. Disability Case

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-07-06T18:17:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/verizon-paying-20m-to-settle-disability-suit.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  will pay
$20 million to settle a U.S. suit over unlawful policies for
disabled workers, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
said in resolving its largest discrimination case.  Employees of New York-based Verizon and 24 subsidiaries
were disciplined or fired when they needed more time off than
allowed by the company’s leave policies, according to a
statement today from the commission that oversees U.S.
employment discrimination laws.  Verizon, the second-largest U.S. telephone company, had a
policy that set a maximum number of absences for employees, the
agency said in a statement. The company refused to make
exceptions for disabled workers who needed “reasonable
accommodations” in order to work, according to the statement.  “Hopefully this nationwide decree will further public
awareness of the importance of engaging in an individualized
interactive process to determine whether a disabled employee
must be accommodated” under U.S. laws, P. David Lopez, the
agency’s general counsel, said in the statement.  The settlement gives Verizon “clearer guidance from the
EEOC regarding when it may be appropriate to provide additional
leave as a reasonable accommodation under the Americans with
Disabilities Act,” according to a company statement. “This was
previously lacking and was a significant factor in Verizon
agreeing to settle.”  The agreement applies to union-represented employees in the
unit that provides wireline phone service, according to the
company’s statement. The ADA prohibits discrimination based on
disability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  