-- 
Warner Music Plans $1.05 Billion Junk Bond Sale Before Buyout

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-07-06T15:56:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/warner-music-plans-1-05-billion-junk-bond-sale-before-blavatnik-takeover.html
Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) , the record
company for artists including  Frank Sinatra  and Red Hot Chili Peppers, plans to sell $1.05 billion of high-yield bonds before
its takeover by Len Blavatnik.  WMG Acquisition Corp. may sell $150 million of 9.5 percent
senior secured notes due June 2016 that are an addition to
existing bonds, and $695 million of senior debt maturing in
October 2018, said a person with knowledge of the transaction.
WMG Holdings Corp. plans to offer $200 million of senior bonds
due in October 2019, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  The all-cash acquisition by U.S. billionaire Blavatnik’s
Access Industries Holdings LLC is valued at $3.3 billion and
will be funded with committed financing from Credit Suisse Group
AG and UBS AG and equity funding from Access, the New York-based
company said in a May 6 statement.  Warner Music ’s shareholders
agreed to the acquisition at a special meeting held earlier
today for $8.25 per share in cash, according to a statement
distributed by Marketwire.  Private-equity firms Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, Bain
Capital LLC and  Providence Equity Partners  hold the majority of
the company’s common stock, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings grade Warner Music B+
with a “negative” outlook, while Moody’s Investors Service has
a Ba3 ranking, one step higher, with a review for a downgrade,
Bloomberg data show. High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Loan Commitments  The Access affiliate created to buy Warner Music got $1.1
billion in loan commitments from Credit Suisse and UBS to help
fund the buyout and repurchase outstanding bonds, according to a
June 13 regulatory filing. Warner Music is conducting a tender
offer to buy about $882.4 million of outstanding notes,
according to a separate statement on June 27.  The new high-yield bonds are set to be issued as soon as
next week, said the person with knowledge of the transaction,
who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. The
offering may be the largest since Russia’s VimpelCom Ltd. sold
$2.2 billion of debt on June 22, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  