-- 
Westerwelle Calls for European Rating Company After Portugal Cut to Junk

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 
2011-07-06T16:10:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/westerwelle-calls-for-european-rating-company-after-portugal-cut-to-junk.html
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  called for an independent European rating company to
be set up to avoid potential conflicts of interest.  “The current discussion about the downgrades and upgrades
by the rating agencies show that on this issue there’s a need
for institutional reform,” Westerwelle told reporters in Berlin
today. “It’s necessary to establish an independent European
rating agency.”  The German government “will work on this,” Westerwelle
said at a joint press briefing with Greek Foreign Minister
Stavros Lambrinidis. “This must be a goal that we all work on
intensively.”  Westerwelle joins a barrage of criticism aimed at rating
companies after Portugal was cut to junk by Moody’s Investors
Service yesterday, one day after  Standard & Poor’s  said that
French and German plans to encourage banks to roll over Greek
debt might temporarily place Greece in “selective default.”  “There are too many interests intertwined,” said
Westerwelle. “There are too many developments that take the
real economic perspective in Europe too little into account.”  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said earlier today that
there’s a need to “break up” the dominance of the big three
rating companies.  “We have to curb the influence of the rating agencies,”
Schaeuble said in Berlin, adding that he “can’t see the basis”
for the decision to downgrade Portugal.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  warned yesterday against too much
weight being placed on the rating companies when considering the
creditworthiness of euro-area nations.  The so-called troika of the  International Monetary Fund ,
the  European Central Bank  and European Commission that are on
the ground assessing Greece’s adherence to its reform program
mustn’t “surrender our ability to make judgements.”  “I place my trust above all in the assessments of these
three institutions,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at 
 acrawford6@bloomberg.net  