-- 
Whole Milk Powder Prices Fall 7.4% to Six-Month Low

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-07-06T00:14:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/whole-milk-powder-prices-fall-7-4-to-six-month-low-1-.html
Whole milk powder auction prices fell
to a six-month low, according to Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd.,
the world’s largest dairy exporter.  Powder for September delivery fell 7.4 percent from three
weeks earlier, according to a trade-weighted  price index 
calculated by the company after its latest  GlobalDairyTrade 
auction. The average price was $3,666 a metric ton, the lowest
since the Jan. 5 auction.  Prices have dropped 26 percent since hitting a record in
early March amid expectations of greater supply from  New Zealand 
and more northern hemisphere milk products entering the market.
Auckland-based Fonterra in May forecast it would pay its farmers
10 percent less this year for their milk as global prices begin
to drop and the  New Zealand dollar  gained.  Fonterra’s auction results added to pressure on New
Zealand’s dollar, Mike Burrows, currency strategist at Bank of
New Zealand Ltd. in Wellington, said in an e-mailed note. The
currency bought 82.63 U.S. cents at 12:10 p.m. in Wellington
after trading at 83.05 cents just before the auction.  Fonterra, which accounts for about 40 percent of the global
trade in dairy products, sells whole and skim milk powder, dried
milk fat and casein at its fortnightly Internet-based auctions.
The company offers one-month contracts with delivery starting
two months after the sale, and two three-month contracts with
delivery starting three and six months later.  Whole milk powder for delivery from October to December
fell 6.8 percent, Fonterra said. Powder for shipment from
January to March dropped 6.3 percent. Across all contracts
prices declined 6.8 percent.  In other product auctions, the prices of skim milk powder
fell 16 percent and there were also declines for milk fat and
milk protein concentrate, Fonterra said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  