-- 
Twitter Is Said to Be Valued at $7 Billion in New Round of Venture Funding

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/twitter-is-said-to-be-valued-at-7-billion-in-new-round-of-venture-funding.html
Twitter Inc., the microblogging site
that lets users post 140-character messages, is raising funding
that values the startup at about $7 billion, said a person with
knowledge of the matter.  The San Francisco-based company is in talks with investors
to receive hundreds of millions of dollars, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the discussions were private.  Twitter’s worth has almost doubled since December, when it
received a $200 million investment led by Kleiner Perkins
Caufield & Byers that valued the company at $3.7 billion. The
startup was pegged at about $1 billion in 2009, a person
familiar with the matter said at the time. SharesPost Inc., an
exchange for shares of closely held companies, has  assessed
Twitter’s current worth  at $6.8 billion.  Twitter is continuing to raise funds from private
investors, rather joining other social-media companies in filing
for an initial public offering. LinkedIn Corp., a professional-
networking site, went public in May. Since then, Groupon Inc.,
the biggest daily-deal site, and Zynga Inc., the top developer
of Facebook games, have both filed for IPOs.  Matt Graves , a spokesman for Twitter, declined to comment.  In June, Twitter co-founder Biz Stone announced that he’s
stepping away from day-to-day duties at the company to join  Evan Williams , another co-founder, in a new venture. The shift puts
more focus on  Dick Costolo , who became chief executive officer
last October, and Jack Dorsey, a Twitter co-founder and former
CEO who returned to an active role at the company this year.  Advertising Revenue  Advertising sales on Twitter may more than triple to about
$150 million this year, according to EMarketer Inc., a  New York- 
based research firm. Still, that’s dwarfed by the growth of
 Facebook Inc , which brought in ad revenue of $1.86 billion last
year, EMarketer estimates.  Twitter aims to get 1 billion users, Williams said in
October. Facebook CEO  Mark Zuckerberg  had previously said that
signing up a billion members is “almost a guarantee.”  Twitter revamped its site in September with the aim of
being faster, easier to use, and better able to better handle
photos and videos. The service now features a second column that
lets users quickly look at messages without leaving a page.  Twitter’s new valuation was previously reported by the Wall
Street Journal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 Jerlichman1@bloomberg.net @bloomberg.net;
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  