-- 
Women’s Fights Thrive in Politics: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/women-find-mud-fights-thriving-in-politics-margaret-carlson.html
(Corrects female members of House in sixth paragraph.)  At a recent campaign rally,
Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , who is seeking the
Republican nomination for president, tried to quash a narrative
that some people find too irresistible to drop. A woman at the
rally asked the candidate about reported divisions between
Bachmann and Sarah Palin. Bachmann brushed it off.  “They want to see two girls come together and have a mud
wrestling fight,” she replied. “And I’m not going to give it
to them.”  Unfortunately, Bachmann campaign adviser Ed Rollins, a
veteran Republican operative, had already printed tickets to the
mud match. Within days of being hired, Rollins was publicly
arguing that his candidate was more substantive than Palin. Fair
enough; elections are competitions, after all. But Rollins found
a particularly unhelpful way to make his case.  “People are going to say, ‘I gotta make a choice and go
with the intelligent woman who’s every bit as attractive,’” he
said.  Rollins went right for the sexist underbelly of American
politics, emphasizing the attractiveness of the two female
politicians in a way that no male candidate ever experiences.  The number of women in public office has increased
dramatically in recent decades. In 1984, when Representative
Geraldine Ferraro was tapped to be the Democrats’ vice
presidential nominee, there were 22 women in the House and two
in the Senate. Today, there are 75 women in the House and 17 in
the Senate, along with six governors.  Hillary Clinton  broke the
glass ceiling in presidential politics in 2008 with a viable
campaign that probably would have succeeded but for the tsunami
of  Barack Obama .  Political candidate Ferraro, the political spouse Barbara Bush once famously said, was the type of woman who “rhymes with
rich.” The overt sexism that Ferraro encountered -- did she
have the cojones to pull the nuclear trigger? -- has thankfully
passed. But the unholy preoccupation with a female politician’s
looks, hair, clothes and more persists. Who is she married to?
How will she find time to raise her children? Is she too
ambitious? Too assertive?  Clinton has experienced all the sexism and ambivalence
American politics has to offer. Her 2008 campaign sometimes
seemed as much about pantsuits and hairstyles as her position on
 Iraq . Her sex appeal was considered fair game for all manner of
jokes. If you were a particular kind of Hillary hater, you could
purchase a Clinton nutcracker for $16.95. Late night comedians
cast her as the long-suffering homebody unable to keep her
husband from wandering off after every passing skirt.  Crude Stereotypes  With more women winning elections, you would think it would
have become easier to talk about female politicians without the
conversation devolving into crude stereotypes. Apparently not.  On “Fox News Sunday,” host Chris Wallace asked Bachmann
whether she is “a flake.” Would any similarly prominent male
politician be asked that question? (I can think of a few who
deserve it, but none who would actually endure it.)  If a woman inadvertently fuels the catty stereotype, the
media all but rejoice. In her 2010 Senate campaign in
 California , former Hewlett-Packard CEO  Carly Fiorina  grumbled
into a hot microphone that her opponent, Democratic Senator
 Barbara Boxer , sported a hairstyle that was “so yesterday.”
The comment came off as cheerleader-on-cheerleader backbiting
because, well, it was. But for a week afterward the substantive
issues of the contest were eclipsed. Nothing mattered but the
catfight.  When Boxer insisted that Brigadier General Michael Walsh
call her “senator” instead of “ma’am” during a hearing, a
similar kerfuffle ensued. A website was promptly launched to
ridicule her, and her primary election opponent put up an ad
comparing her to Dr. Evil from the “Austin Powers” movies
complaining when people called him “Mister.”  In addition to having fashionable hair and an indifference
to their official titles, female candidates are still expected
to be nice.  Perhaps the most memorable exchange of Clinton’s race
against Obama occurred when she was flailing in  New Hampshire 
after having lost the caucuses in  Iowa . In their last debate
before the New Hampshire primary, Clinton was asked about her
“personality deficit.” She uncomfortably replied that the
question “hurts my feelings” and gamely granted that Obama was
“very likeable.” Obama icily  replied : “You’re likeable
enough, Hillary.” Clinton went on to pull off an upset in New
Hampshire, with women voting for her by a 12-point margin. (She
had lost them by seven in Iowa.)  The slights, slurs and sexism faced by female candidates
aren’t over. Rollins did his attractive boss no favors by
injecting attractiveness into the equation for amassing
Republican delegates for the 2012 nomination.  Still, progress for women is real. When professional
political hacks say Bachmann can’t win the presidency, it’s not
because of her looks or her sex. It’s because of her far-out
ideas, including calling for an end to most environmental
regulations, voting against a ban on job discrimination based on
sexual orientation and seeking probes to expose members of
Congress who are anti-American. There’s also her shaky grasp of
American history and icons. (Bachmann somehow thinks the
Founding Fathers, who wrote slavery into the U.S. Constitution,
were champions of equal rights.)  Bachmann is certainly a long shot for the White House. But
it’s not because she’s a woman. Thanks for that, Hillary. You go
girl.  ( Margaret Carlson , author of “Anyone Can Grow Up: How
 George Bush  and I Made It to the White House” and former White
House correspondent for Time magazine, is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer on this column:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 