-- 
Oxford Hits Up Silicon Valley for Alumni Support

-- B y   O l i v e r   S t a l e y
-- 
2011-07-06T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/yale-to-oxford-hamilton-fights-to-save-rolls-royce-education.html
For almost 1,000 years, the leaders
of the  University of Oxford  sought aid in medieval courts and
cathedrals. In April, Andrew Hamilton, Oxford’s vice chancellor,
found a new venue: the mansion of a Silicon Valley billionaire.  Over artichoke soup and halibut at the San Francisco home
of Michael Moritz, an Oxford alumnus and venture capitalist who
was an early investor in Google Inc., Hamilton made the case to
about 50 technology entrepreneurs that the oldest university in
the English-speaking world needs their support.  As Oxford faces an estimated 78 percent, or 47 million-
pound ($75 million), cut in annual government funding for
teaching, Hamilton is pleading for money around the world. The
former provost of  Yale University , Hamilton, 58, is importing
American techniques for fundraising and heads a record-setting
$1.25 billion-pound capital campaign. Among his priorities is
introducing the culture of lifelong alumni loyalty akin to that
at U.S. institutions.  “There are twice the number of alumni of Oxford than at
Yale,” Hamilton said in an interview in his office. “Our
undergraduate body is twice the size of Harvard’s, twice the
size of Yale’s, twice the size of Stanford’s. The potential for
Oxford is enormous.”  The British-born Hamilton is a  Pittsburgh Steelers  fan who
also taught at Princeton University and the  University of
Pittsburgh . He’s bringing American energy and expertise across
the Atlantic while managing through a U.K. financial climate
marked by the first decline in real income since 1981 and
government budget cuts that threaten more than 300,000 public-
sector jobs by 2015.  Harvard Hires  Since joining Oxford in October 2009, Hamilton has
increased financial aid for low-income students; hired the
former director of alumni relations at  Harvard Business School 
to head a similar office at Oxford; and recruited Peter Tufano,
a professor at Harvard Business School, to run Oxford’s Said
Business School.  Under Hamilton, Oxford set a fundraising record in 2009-
2010, when it hauled in 240 million pounds, more than doubling
the previous year’s total.  “He conforms to the spirit of American optimism,” said Mark
Damazer, the master of Oxford’s St. Peter’s College. “You want
someone who doesn’t look as if, every time there’s an incoming
piece of artillery, he’ll be knocked over by it.”  At Yale, where he worked for 11 years starting in 1997,
Hamilton overhauled the tenure process and confronted sexist
behavior at a fraternity. As provost -- the chief academic
officer -- of the New Haven, Connecticut-based university, he
headed the integration of Yale’s West Campus, a 136-acre
research park purchased in 2007 from Bayer AG, and promoted the
hiring of women and minority professors.  Government Cuts  Hamilton also had a role in fundraising, which is becoming
his top priority at Oxford as the British government slashes
subsidies to higher education by at least 2 billion pounds by
2015 to help reduce the national deficit, according to
Universities UK, which represents higher-education institutions
in the country. Oxford said it will lose about 4,700 pounds per
student in government funds starting in 2012. To compensate,
parliament is allowing colleges in England to raise their
maximum tuition to 9,000 pounds a year from 3,375 pounds.  Oxford receives 280 million pounds a year from the
government for research, a sum that isn’t expected to change,
said Anthony Monaco, the pro vice chancellor for planning and
resources. On Aug. 1, Monaco will take over as president of
 Tufts University  in Medford, Massachusetts.  ‘Completely Daft’  To attract charitable contributions, Hamilton must also
overcome a culture that has regarded higher education as a free
right.  U.K. college students  paid nothing for tuition until
1998, when they were charged 1,000 pounds and received grants
and loans for living expenses. In 2006, tuition was raised to
3,000 pounds.  “For years and years people just became used to the idea
that university was paid for by the state,” said Giles
Henderson, the master of Oxford’s Pembroke College. “That was
broadly the position, which was completely daft, and
particularly daft at Oxford.”  An Oxford education, where students are tutored by faculty
in groups of two, is the product of a “Rolls Royce teaching
system,” and the graduates who benefit should be expected to
give back, Henderson said.  In December, thousands of students from Oxford and other
universities marched in central  London  to protest the tuition
hikes, erupting in riots that swarmed the limousine of Prince
Charles and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall.  No Confidence  Oxford’s faculty voted 283 to 5 on June 7 to pass a no-
confidence resolution in the policies of Britain’s higher-
education minister, David Willetts. It was the first vote about
political affairs since 1985, when the faculty voted to deny
Prime Minister  Margaret Thatcher  an honorary degree.  While Oxford was built through philanthropy -- Balliol
College, for example, was founded for poor students by John de
Balliol in the 13th century -- it lacks a modern tradition of
alumni giving, Hamilton said.  Only about 15 percent of Oxford graduates donate to the
school, he said. That compares with 47 percent at  Princeton
University , 44 percent at Dartmouth College, and 19 percent for
Harvard, according to 2010 data compiled by the Council for Aid
to Education, a New York research group.  As Oxford becomes reliant on private sources of funding, it
needs to look at U.S. institutions for lessons on raising and
managing money, Hamilton said. The combined endowments of Oxford
and its colleges of 3.33 billion pounds in 2010 were dwarfed by
those of the richest U.S. schools, and Oxford needs to catch up,
he said.  Billionaire Donations  “There is much we can learn from the leading universities
in the  United States ,” Hamilton said.  The endowment of  Harvard University , in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts , was $27.4 billion on June 30, 2010. Yale’s was
$16.7 billion.  Hamilton is spearheading the  Oxford Thinking  fundraising
campaign, which has collected more than 1 billion pounds since
its official start in 2008 on its way to a goal of 1.25 billion
pounds. That includes a 75 million-pound donation in September
from U.S. billionaire  Len Blavatnik , chairman of New York-based
Access Industries LLC, to establish a school of government.  At Moritz’s San Francisco home overlooking the Golden Gate
Bridge, Hamilton piqued the interest of wealthy Americans who
had no connection to Oxford, said Moritz, a partner at  Sequoia
Capital , based in Menlo Park,  California .  “Andy captivated them,” said Moritz, who, with his wife,
donated $50 million to his college, Christ Church, in 2008. “He
spoke from that place between the brain and the heart and
touched people’s emotions and aroused their curiosity.”  Educating the Elite  Oxford is so old that no one knows when it was founded
although the first teaching in the city was recorded at about
1096. Oxford, along with the University of Cambridge, has
educated  England ’s elite for centuries. Its alumni include 26
prime ministers, 20  archbishops of Canterbury  and 12 saints.
 Adam Smith , William Penn, Cecil Rhodes and  Rupert Murdoch  all
attended Oxford.  Oxford consists of 38 colleges, many dating from the 15th
and 16th centuries, surrounding gardens and grassy courtyards.
On sunny June days, students sprawl on the lawns, studying among
blooming roses beneath gothic spires.  The idyllic scene belies unease over the university’s
future.  Disparities  “There has not been a period of such turbulence in the
funding of higher education in the United Kingdom than that we
are passing through now,” Hamilton said. “What is happening,
whether we like it or not, is that we are being transitioned
from a principally publicly funded university to a principally
privately funded university.”  As U.K. universities become more like American
institutions, they should be aware of the disparities in the
U.S. system, said Howard Hotson, a history professor at Oxford.
While the best U.S. schools are excellent, the quality falls off
sharply and “the value for money isn’t very good,” he said.  “I’ve noticed an unthinking admiration and emulation of the
U.S., especially on the right, which is not coupled with any
sustained study of how the U.S. system works” said Hotson, who
writes about education for the London Review of Books.  U.K. education leaders should also question the motives
behind American philanthropy, Hotson said. In many cases, U.S.
donors give to improve the odds of admission for their children,
he said.  “You have to ask the question if benefactors are giving
purely for altruistic purposes,” Hotson said. “An awful lot of
this giving is to sustain your dynasty.”  Oxford University Press  To increase the endowment, Hamilton transferred almost 200
million pounds from the reserves of the  Oxford University Press ,
the publishing company established in 1586. The funds will
generate 7 million pounds a year, half of which will go to
scholarships, said Monaco, the pro vice chancellor.  The son of two teachers, Hamilton was raised in Guildford,
southwest of London, and studied at the University of Exeter. He
earned a masters degree at the University of British Columbia in
 Vancouver ,  Canada , and his Ph.D. at the University of Cambridge.  He applied for teaching positions in the U.S. in 1981 when
the recession meant there were no openings in the U.K., and
found work first at Princeton, in Princeton,  New Jersey , then at
Pittsburgh. In 1997, he left for Yale.  ‘Natural Collaborator’  In Hamilton’s Oxford office are photographs of himself with
Yale President Richard Levin, and with two fellow former Yale
provosts, Susan Hockfield, now president of  Massachusetts
Institute of Technology , and Alison Richard, the former vice
chancellor of Cambridge.  Levin, Yale’s president for 18 years, said Hamilton managed
through consensus during his time there. That ability makes him
well suited for the top job at Oxford, where the colleges are
financially independent entities and the vice chancellor must
lead through persuasion, said Levin, who attended Oxford’s
 Merton College  from 1968 to 1970.  “Andy is a natural collaborator and, as provost, was very
much someone who tried to work with faculty to try and reach
agreements, instead of imposing his views,” Levin said. “The
Oxford job suits both his personality and the way he operated at
Yale.”  Hamilton has won praise from Oxford faculty for steering
the university’s response to the government’s cuts in funding
and proposed tuition increases.  Consensus Builder  “He got us discussing it very early on and that gave us a
big advantage,” said Susan Cooper, a professor of experimental
physics. “He understood that he needs to work with the whole of
the Oxford community and bring us to a consensus.”  Students question if Hamilton and other leaders of
universities could have fought the budget cuts and tuition
hikes. They are particularly critical of the tuition increase
and the debt of as much as 27,000 pounds incurred after three
years of study, said David Barclay, president of the  Oxford
University Student Union .  “It’s the very real sense around the kitchen table in
communities up and down the country that taking on something
like that is just not viable,” said Barclay, 22, from Glasgow.
“It’s a very difficult conversation for a 16-year-old, when
parents say ‘We earn less than this in a year, how can you take
on this level of debt?’”  Hamilton remains an active researcher and manages a group
in the chemistry department that investigates how synthetic
molecules interact with molecules in living cells. Hamilton’s
team published 11 papers last year, he said.  After two years at Oxford, Hamilton said he is now
thoroughly “Oxonian” and chortles when discussing the
university’s  rowing triumph  over Cambridge, his former school,
in March. At official university functions, he wears the
traditional black robe and mortarboard and is preceded into
functions by a bearer carrying a ceremonial silver mace.  “People like him and gravitate to him,” said Moritz. “And
he’s not shy about asking for money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Staley in New York at 
 ostaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  