-- 
Hyundai Heavy Rules Out Hynix Bid, Fuels Speculation Sale Will Fail Again

-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-07-06T08:46:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/hyundai-heavy-rules-out-hynix-bid-fuels-speculation-sale-will-fail-again.html
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. ruled
out bidding for a controlling stake in  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660) ,
fueling speculation shareholders will fail to unload their stake
in the chipmaker for the fourth time in two years.  Hyundai Heavy, the world’s largest shipbuilder, jumped 6.4
percent and Hynix tumbled 5.4 percent in Seoul trading. The
South Korean shipbuilder won’t submit a letter of intent for the
stake because adding the chipmaker to existing businesses would
create “little synergy,” Ulsan-based Hyundai Heavy said in a
statement today.  The decision may be a blow to Hynix shareholders including
Korea Exchange Bank, who are preparing to begin the fourth
attempt since 2009 to sell their remaining holdings in the
chipmaker they bailed out in 2001. Any bidders would vie to
control the world’s second-largest maker of semiconductors known
as DRAM, which go into personal computers and smartphones.  “Hyundai Heavy’s decision may make investors skeptical
that Hynix will finally find a new owner,” said Heo Pil Seok,
chief executive officer of Seoul-based Midas International Asset
Management Ltd., which oversees $2.1 billion in assets.
“Hyundai Heavy investors are cheering over the company’s
correct decision not to enter into a totally unrelated
business.”  Shareholders to Proceed  SK Group , parent of the nation’s biggest oil refiner and
mobile-phone operator, said it hasn’t decided whether to bid.  Hynix shareholders, which hold a 15 percent stake, will
proceed with their plan to receive preliminary bids for part or
all of their shares by the July 8 deadline, Kim Sun Gyu, a
spokesman for  Korea Exchange Bank (004940) , said by telephone after
Hyundai’s announcement.  Based on current stock prices, the disposal of the stake
would be the largest share sale of a South Korean technology
company since July 1999, when Hynix bought a majority holding in
Hyundai Microelectronics Co. for 2.56 trillion won ($2.4
billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hynix dropped to 26,500 won, giving it a market value of
15.7 trillion won, at the 3 p.m. close in Seoul. Hyundai Heavy
gained the most in more than a month to 484,000 won.  Hyundai Heavy said June 8 it was looking “with interest”
at the sale of the Hynix stake. The shipbuilder was planning to
submit a preliminary bid by July 8, MoneyToday reported
yesterday.  Hyundai Group   The decision to scrap bidding “took the steam out of the
takeover competition,” said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund
manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $29 billion.  Hyosung Group, Dongbu Group and LG Group aren’t planning to
bid for Hynix, the companies said in regulatory filings in
response to the stock exchange’s request for clarification on
market speculation.  Kim Hong Gyun, an analyst at Dongbu Securities Co., said
there has been speculation that the STX Group may bid for Hynix.
No decision on bidding has been made, the group, whose units
include STX Offshore & Shipbuilding Co., said in an e-mail
today. STX Offshore shares fell 5.9 percent, the most in three
months.  Hyundai Heavy’s interest in Hynix was driven by a desire to
rebuild  South Korea ’s family-owned conglomerates, known as
chaebol, rather than any business rationale, according to Mirae
Asset Securities Co. and CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. The
shipbuilder and Hynix’s predecessor were both part of the
Hyundai Group.  Hyundai Legacy  Hynix, formerly Hyundai Electronics Industries Co., severed
ties with the Hyundai Group in 2001 when creditors took over the
company. Hyundai Heavy split from the group a year later.  Hynix took over Hyundai Microelectronics, previously known
as LG Semicon Co., after South Korea’s government forced
companies to merge in the wake of the 1997-1998 financial
crisis.  Hynix’s creditors, seeking to recoup billions of dollars
spent bailing out the company, failed twice last year to attract
bidders.  Hyosung Corp. (004800) , the sole bidder in the first attempt,
walked away from talks in November 2009 saying speculation that
it received political favors to pursue the takeover made it
difficult to negotiate a fair acquisition.  Closing the Deal  The shareholders aim to receive final bids by September,
Ryu Jae Han, chief executive officer of Korea Finance Corp., one
of the creditors, said June 10. They aim to close the deal,
including payment, by the end of this year, he said at that
time.  Hynix needs to be sold to a company with a stable  cash
flow , given the volatile nature of the chip business, Im said.  Hynix posted record sales and profit in 2010, helped by
cost cuts and demand for chips used in mobile devices, leading
the company to pay a cash dividend to investors for the first
time. It reduced debt by more than 1 trillion won last year and
had more than 2 trillion won in cash, according to the company.  The chipmaker plans to spend about 3.4 trillion won this
year expanding production and upgrading factories, after
investing 3.38 trillion won in capital expenditure in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  