-- 
Zuma’s Victory Over Wal-Mart With Jobs Pledge Cuts South African Takeovers

-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 
2011-07-06T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-06/zuma-s-victory-over-wal-mart-with-jobs-pledge-cuts-south-african-takeovers.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma ’s
success in getting foreign buyers such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
to guarantee jobs may curb the pace of takeovers in the region’s
biggest economy.  The Wal-Mart acquisition was “so politically charged,”
said  Nick Matthews , head of mergers and acquisitions at KPMG
International’s South African unit. “Debates about ANC policy
and the fact that they have put nationalization on the agenda
will be a worry for foreign investors.”  Companies announced 86 deals valued at 49.2 billion rand
($7.3 billion) in the first half of this year, the lowest level
since the final two quarters of 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. There were 106 transactions in the year-earlier
period totaling 55.3 billion rand.  Zuma’s government is trying to slash the country’s 25
percent unemployment rate. It used the  antitrust regulator to
secure a halt in job cuts when Wal-Mart purchased a stake in
retailer Massmart Holdings Ltd. and Kansai Paint Co. bought
Freeworld Coatings Ltd. Threats to nationalize mines by  Julius Malema , leader of the ruling African National Congress Youth
League, are also deterring foreign buyers.  South Africa ’s trade, economic development and agriculture
ministries asked the country’s Competition Tribunal to force
Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, to restrict imports
after its purchase of Massmart, a move designed to protect the
company’s smaller suppliers. The competition authority approved
the transaction on June 1 with the condition that no jobs are
cut for two years.  ‘Strained Credibility’  “These interventions strained South  Africa ’s credibility
as a destination for foreign direct investment,” Massmart
Chairman Mark Lamberti wrote yesterday in Johannesburg’s
 Business Day  newspaper. “In the end, wisdom and independence of
the Competition Tribunal prevailed.”  The government “doesn’t have a blanket view” on takeovers
and bids are studied on a “case-by-case basis to determine the
balance of benefit to the economy,” the Economic Development
Department said in an e-mailed response to questions on June 5.
It welcomes foreign investment in operations that bring capital
and skills, it said.  The ANC agreed in September to study nationalization in
South Africa, the biggest producer of platinum, a miner of gold
and the biggest supplier of coal to European  power plants .  Government interference “is a bit of a headwind,” said
Alan Pullinger, chief executive officer of  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) ’s
investment banking unit, Rand Merchant Bank.  ‘Hit Pause’  Acquisitions also are being hampered by the Treasury’s
announcement in June of an 18-month suspension of Section 45 of
the Income Tax Act, a move that may tax transactions previously
exempt. The risk of extra charges caused companies to “hit the
pause button,” Pullinger said.  Rio Tinto Plc’s Palabora Mining Co. postponed a share sale
on June 20, saying the adjustment means the transaction is no
longer viable. Computer manufacturer  Mustek Ltd. (MST)  scrapped a
buyout by management and private equity investors on June 7 for
the same reason.  Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said June 23 that he
suspended the provision to stamp out  tax avoidance .  The $1.3 billion purchase of  Cape Town ’s Victoria & Albert
Waterfront shopping mall by  Growthpoint Properties Ltd. (GRT)  and the
Public Investment Corp. was the biggest announced transaction in
the first half, according to Bloomberg data.  Investec Tops Tables  Investec Ltd. topped the ranking of M&A advisers at the end
of the second quarter as it worked with Growthpoint on its V&A
purchase and  Brazil ’s Vale SA on its $1.1 billion bid to buy
copper producer  Metorex Ltd. (MTX) , according to Bloomberg data.  Jinchuan Group Ltd., the biggest Chinese nickel producer,
made a rival offer of $1.36 billion on July 5 for Metorex, which
controls the Ruashi open-pit mine in the Democratic Republic of
Congo and the Chibuluma copper development in Zambia.  Investors may try overcoming obstacles to benefit from
faster economic growth and the country’s access to other African
markets, said Yianni Pouroullis, head of advisory and
distribution at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) ’s investment banking unit.  South Africa’s economy, the largest in Africa, expanded an
annualized 4.8 percent in the first quarter, compared with 1.9
percent in the U.S. and 0.8 percent in the euro area.  ‘Healthy Pipeline’  Nedbank Capital and RMB, which advised FirstRand last year
on the sale of its 45 percent stake in property and casualty
insurer OUTsurance Holdings Ltd., aren’t in the top 15 M&A
transactions announced in the first half.  There has been an increase in corporate finance activity,
such as capital raising and lending, giving Nedbank Capital a
“healthy pipeline” of transactions, Pouroullis said.  RMB’s deal pipeline still looks promising, Pullinger said.  “We’ve been busy, but I think it’s fair comment to say
that transactions are taking much longer to consummate,” he
said. “They are being considered a lot more deeply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  