-- Abe Bets It’s Different This Time With Sales Tax Rise
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-09-30T19:44:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/abe-bets-it-s-different-this-time-with-sales-tax-rise.html
It’s different this time. The four
most dangerous words in markets, according to former U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Larry Summers .  With  Japan  set to raise its sales tax for the first time
since 1997, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s political future rides
on a different outcome than last time -- when the nation slid
into a recession and the premier lost his job. To avoid a
 spending  slump, Abe, 59, is poised to unveil a stimulus plan to
counter the 3 percentage point bump in the levy to 8 percent.  “Abe must know that breaking the economy would mean the
end of Abenomics,” said  Masayuki Kichikawa , chief Japan
economist at Bank of America Corp. in  Tokyo , referring to the
initiative to reflate the world’s third largest economy after
two decades of stagnation. “The miserable failure of the 1997
 sales tax  rise is stuck in the mind of Japanese politicians.”  The prime minister, who is scheduled to speak tomorrow on
his plans for taxes and an economic-support package, was left
little room to abandon the planned sales-tax increase he
inherited from the previous government. Cabinet members, an
independent panel of experts and  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda all advised proceeding with the rise to 8 percent in
April, an unpopular move designed to shore up revenue for a
government with the world’s largest public debt burden.  Lawmaker Appetite  Industrial production fell 0.7 percent in August from the
previous month, the trade ministry said today in Tokyo. That was
steeper than a median forecast for a 0.3 percent decline in a
survey of 29 economists by  Bloomberg News .  Retail sales rose 0.9 percent in August from July,
according to the trade ministry, less than a median estimate of
a 1.0 percent increase.  The Topix index was down 1.2 percent at 1:46 p.m. in Tokyo,
while the yen rose 0.3 percent to 97.95 per dollar.  “From an economic point of view, Mr. Abe doesn’t want to
increase the tax -- I think he is being forced to do so for
political reasons,” said Yoichi Takahashi, an economics
professor at Kaetsu University in Tokyo who has advised Abe.
“On paper, it means tax revenues will rise -- and there will be
a lot of lawmakers eager to spend that budget.”  Having run his election campaign in late 2012 on a platform
of economic rebirth, Abe has the incentive to deploy yet further
stimulus to avert a  repeat of 1997 , or put pressure on the BOJ -
- which is already undertaking unprecedented easing -- to expand
liquidity injections. What may be just as important is that he
has momentum in his favor -- gross domestic product rose 3.8
percent at an annualized pace last quarter, after a 4.1 percent
gain in January-to-March.  1997 Aftermath  When Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto in 1997 oversaw a 2
percentage point rise in the consumption levy, it coincided with
a tightening grip of deflation. After stock and  land price 
bubbles collapsed in the early 1990s, banks began  constricting
credit . The nation also was hit by diminishing demand abroad as
Asian neighbors from  South Korea  to Indonesia fell into debt
crises that required International Monetary Fund bailouts.  GDP  shrank  after the April 1997 sales-tax bump, recouped
some of the loss in July-to-September, then slid back into three
straight quarters of decline. The  Topix index  of Japanese stocks
slid almost 10 percent in the 12 months following the escalation
in the duty, a period when the MSCI World Index climbed about 32
percent. Hashimoto resigned in 1998.  “Abe understands the danger -- if he fails, no one will be
able to touch the tax for the next 15 years,” Economy Minister
Akira Amari said yesterday on Fuji Television. Amari said if the
elevation of the levy to 8 percent doesn’t go well, a further
step up to 10 percent in 2015 would be called off. “If the 8
percent hasn’t been a success, there will be no 10 percent.”  Supplementary Package  The government will assemble a 5 trillion yen ($51 billion)
package to help counter the impact of the higher consumption
duties, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Among the items likely to be included are
expanded tax rebates for companies boosting wages, incentives
for  capital spending , cash payments to homebuyers and
infrastructure investment for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics, according
to Deutsche Securities Inc. analysts in Tokyo.  Corporate income tax cuts are also on the table, the
government has said. An early end to the temporary bump in the
rate that was implemented to help pay for reconstruction after
the 2011 earthquake is also under consideration, according to a
document submitted to the ruling  Liberal Democratic Party ’s tax
advisory panel today. The ruling coalition late today released a
document pledging to make that decision by December. The  finance
ministry  has opposed a permanent reduction in the effective
rate.  Corporate Profits  Compared with 1997, this time round bank loans are rising,
the real-estate market is seeing gains in prices and sales and
companies are sitting on a near-record cash pile of 220 trillion
yen, according to BOJ data. Corporate profits are benefiting
from a 21 percent slide in the yen against the dollar in the
past year, prompted by BOJ efforts to expand the supply of
money.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Asia’s biggest carmaker, in August
raised its profit forecast for the year ending March 2014 to
1.48 trillion yen, as the weaker yen bolstered the value of
Japanese cars sold overseas.  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  said this month
full-year earnings could beat its forecast thanks to help from
the  exchange rate . Japan’s second-largest television maker,
Panasonic is headed for its first annual profit in three years.  “A slump in private consumption after a hike in the
 consumption tax ” is inevitable in April 2014, Deutsche
Securities economists led by Mikihiro Matsuoka in Tokyo, wrote
in a research note this month. “But we expect economic activity
to turnaround to month-on-month rises from May 2014 onwards.”  Growth Outlook  Beyond tomorrow’s supplementary budget, Abe is planning a
slew of growth-inducing structural reforms later this year,
seeking to expand incentives for companies to invest in the
domestic economy and boost wages.  The impact of the fiscal package, along with the structural
measures, means the tax increase “should be almost entirely
offset,” according to Credit Suisse AG economists led by Neal
Soss in  New York . Credit Suisse this month raised its 2014 GDP
forecast for Japan by about 1 percentage point, to 2.3 percent.  Such a result would leave Japan with the strongest three
years of economic expansion since the late 1980s through 1991,
according to data compiled by the IMF. For now, Abe must manage
the fallout of tomorrow’s decision on the sales levy, which has
been opposed by a majority of the public.  Sliding Ratings  Only 17 percent of respondents to a Nikkei newspaper poll
supported raising the tax as planned, while 55 percent favored a
more flexible timetable and 24 percent didn’t want it lifted at
all. The Nikkei surveyed 895 people Aug. 23-25. A new poll
published by the Nikkei today found 48 percent against the tax
rise and 47 percent in favor. The paper surveyed 902 people
Sept. 27-29 and gave no margin of error for either poll.  Sliding popular ratings could make ruling LDP members less
enthusiastic about taking on vested interests with Abe’s
structural reforms.  “Public support could go down,” said  Koichi Nakano ,
professor of political science at  Sophia University  in Tokyo.
“The only reason why he has been popular is the early success
of his economic strategy. If he loses support on that front,
that could spark questions about whether he was any good in the
first place.”  Budget Stalemate  Elsewhere in Asia, a report today showed South Korea’s
industrial output rose 3.3 percent in August from a year
earlier, more than a median forecast for a 2.1 increase in a
Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists, and the fastest since
January. Korean manufacturer confidence rose to a four-month
high.  In the U.K., mortgage approvals probably rose to 61,500 in
August from 60,624 in July, data will show today, according to a
Bloomberg survey. The European Union will release consumer
inflation for September later in the day.  Congress is leaving itself just one day tomorrow to end a
budget stalemate that raises the risk of the first government
shutdown in 17 years as Republicans sought to shift blame for
the gridlock to Democrats.  The Senate will reconvene tomorrow afternoon, when it will
reject a House plan passed early today to delay and limit
President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act. In response, the
House would add “another provision” to the spending measure
and send it back to the Senate, said Representative  Kevin
McCarthy , the top House Republican vote counter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  