-- Accused Al-Shabaab Associate Wants Trial, Lawyer Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-09-30T23:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/accused-al-shabaab-associate-wants-trial-lawyer-says-1-.html
A man accused of supporting Somali
terrorist group al-Shabaab doesn’t believe he committed any
terrorist acts against Americans and wants to go to trial, his
lawyer said.  Mohamed Yusuf, was charged in federal court in  Brooklyn ,
 New York , with conspiracy, use of high-powered firearms in
violent acts and providing material support to a foreign
terrorist group. Prosecutors told U.S. District Judge Sandra Townes today that they are in plea negotiations with Yusuf.  Ephraim Savitt, a lawyer for Yusuf, told reporters after
the hearing that his client believed he was a freedom fighter
and didn’t commit any acts of terrorism against Americans.  “He feels he never intended any harm to the  United States 
or United States citizens,” Savitt said. “He looked up to the
United States.”  Yusuf and two other men, Ali Yasin Ahmed and Madhi Hashi,
were arrested in  Africa  and taken into U.S. custody in November,
according to prosecutors. Prosecutors allege that the men
participated in weapons and explosives training and a suicide
bomber program and were deployed in combat to support al-Shabaab.  Chemical Weapons  Prosecutors allege the men had “substantial knowledge”
regarding al-Shabaab research into chemical weapons, according
to a letter filed in court Sept. 18. Al-Shabaab, an affiliate of
al-Qaeda, claimed responsibility for an attack in September at
the upscale Westgate Mall in Nairobi,  Kenya , in which as many as
68 people died.  Ahmed and Hashi are also in plea negotiations, according to
prosecutors. If convicted of all the charges, the defendants
face a maximum sentence of life in prison, according to
prosecutors.  The three men are originally from Somalia, according to
Savitt. Yusuf, who previously worked as a bus driver, grew up in
 Sweden  and is a Swedish citizen, Savitt said.  The case is US v. Ahmed, 1:12-cr-00661, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Brooklyn, New York at  csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  