-- Achillion Falls on FDA Hold on Hepatitic C Medicine
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-09-30T20:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/achillion-falls-on-fda-hold-on-hepatitic-c-medicine.html
Achillion Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ACHN) 
plunged 58 percent after U.S. regulators kept the company’s
experimental hepatitis C drug sovaprevir on hold because of
abnormal liver results.  Achillion sank to $3.02 at 4 p.m. New York time in its
biggest drop since the shares started trading in 2006. The New
Haven, Connecticut-based company has lost 62 percent this year.  The  Food and Drug Administration  determined the compound’s
development shouldn’t resume after the company responded to all
the issues raised by the agency in June, Achillion said in a
statement after the market closed on Sept. 27. The company will
focus on other hepatitis C medicines in its portfolio, with
results of a planned combination study of two medications by
next year, Chief Executive Officer Milind Deshpande said in the
statement.  “It would appear there is a good chance sovaprevir will
not be able to progress further in development,”  Phil Nadeau ,
an analyst with Cowen & Co., wrote in a research note today.  Achillion is competing with drugmakers including  AbbVie
Inc. (ABBV)  and  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  to develop new treatments for the
disease, a market analysts estimate may be $20 billion.
Hepatitis C is estimated to affect 170 million people worldwide.  High levels of liver enzymes, which can indicate damage,
were observed in healthy patients when sovaprevir was combined
with two medicines used to treat HIV infections, the company
said in July. The tests were performed to look for possible drug
interactions. The combination may have resulted in higher-than-expected blood levels of the therapies, Achillion said in July.  The company plans to work quickly with the FDA to lift the
clinical hold, Deshpande told analysts and investors today on a
conference call.  “We remain highly optimistic we can work with the agency
to address their concerns in a timely fashion,” Deshpande said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  