-- Macquarie Said to Make Bid for Lloyds’s Australian Assets
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2013-10-01T07:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/macquarie-said-to-make-bid-for-lloyds-banking-s-australia-assets.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s
largest investment bank, bid for  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s
Australian assets, said a person with knowledge of the matter,
who asked not to be named as the process is confidential.  A consortium led by Pepper Australia Pty, a non-bank
lender, also made a bid, another person said. Final binding
offers for the close to A$9 billion ($8.4 billion) in assets
were due yesterday, people with knowledge of the transaction
said last month. The sale includes Lloyds’s Capital Finance unit
and corporate loans valued at more than A$2 billion, they said.  Lloyds Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio, 49, is
strengthening the firm’s balance sheet by selling assets and
cutting costs following the bank’s 20 billion-pound ($32
billion) bailout in 2008. The British government last month
started selling its 39 percent stake in the country’s largest
mortgage lender as part of a move to full private ownership.  “For the last three or four years Macquarie has been
looking to build its leasing portfolio,” said  Angus Gluskie ,
who helps oversee about A$500 million in assets, including
Macquarie shares, as chief investment officer at White Funds
Management Pty in Sydney. “It is an area that has given them
good returns.”  Lisa Jamieson, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Macquarie,
declined to comment, as did Lynne Machin, a Lloyds spokeswoman.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is advising Lloyds on the sale.  Earnings Volatility  Shares of Macquarie rose 0.2 percent to A$47.99 at the
close of Sydney trading and have jumped 35 percent this year,
compared with the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index’s 12 percent gain.  Chief Executive Officer  Nicholas Moore  has expanded
Macquarie’s annuity-style businesses such as lending, leasing
and fund management to offset earnings volatility at its trading
and investment banking units.  It bought a A$1 billion car loan portfolio from the
Australian unit of GMAC Inc. and a 53-aircraft leasing portfolio
from International Lease Finance Corp. for A$2 billion in April
2010. Its corporate and asset finance division had A$22.4
billion of loans and assets under management as of March 31,
according to a  company filing .  Competing Bids  Initial offers valued Lloyds’s commercial-lending and
asset-finance units in Australia at more than A$1 billion, the
Wall Street Journal reported on Sept. 25.  Pepper Australia’s bid is being backed by  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and General Electric Co., the person said. Reuters
reported the consortium’s offer earlier today. Pepper declined
to comment, according to a statement e-mailed by Anna Frilingos,
an external communications adviser at DEC Public Relations.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  was preparing a final bid for the
assets, two people with knowledge of the matter said last week.
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  dropped out of the
race, people said. Westpac’s Sydney-based spokeswoman Supreet
Thomas declined to comment.  Lloyds International Pty, the London-based lender’s
Australian unit, reported a loss of A$148.3 million in 2012,
after a shortfall of A$1.2 billion the previous year, according
to company filings. The division reduced assets by 24 percent to
A$12.2 billion last year, according to the documents.  Macquarie is also considering a bid for Lloyds’s  Scottish
Widows  Investment Partnership, the asset-management arm of
Scottish Widows, two people with knowledge of the negotiations
said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  