-- Active Network to Be Acquired by Vista for $1.05 Billion
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-09-30T20:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/active-network-to-be-taken-private-by-vista-for-1-05-billion.html
Active Network Inc. (ACTV) , a company that
manages online registration for marathons, business conferences
and other events, agreed to be acquired by private-equity firm
Vista Equity Partners for about $1.05 billion in cash.  Vista will commence a tender offer to acquire all of the
outstanding shares of San Diego-based Active’s common stock for
$14.50 a share, according to a statement today. That represents
a 27 percent premium over the closing price on Sept. 27, the
most recent trading day. Active’s board endorsed the offer,
recommending that all stockholders tender their shares.  The takeover follows a management shakeup in May, when
Chief Executive Officer Matthew Landa and Chairman David Alberga
resigned their positions, though they remained on the board.
Today’s deal allows Active to go private and revamp the company
before returning to public markets, said Andre Sequin, an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  New York .  “There’s an opportunity to clean it up away from the
public eye,” Sequin said. “I wouldn’t be surprised to see
Active as a public company again in about five years.”  Active’s stock soared 26 percent to $14.31 at the close in
New York. Under the terms of the deal, any shares not tendered
will be acquired in a second-step merger at the same cash price
as the original offer.  Time to Execute  “The partnership with Vista will position us to execute on
our strategy and further enhance our industry leadership,” Jon Belmonte, Active’s interim CEO, said in the statement. “For our
customers, we will continue to focus on delivering the strongest
product offerings through our advanced technology platform.”  Active expects the deal to close before the end of the
fourth quarter, according to the statement.  The company, whose customers range from the state of
 California  to Cisco Systems Inc., had attracted interest from
other buyout firms before agreeing to the Vista deal. The
company was originally expected to fetch as much as $770
million, a person familiar with the situation said. The shares
had already more than doubled this year before today on takeover
speculation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  