-- Hagel to Assess South Korea Readiness With Handover Looming
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   S a m   K i m
-- 2013-09-30T04:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/hagel-to-assess-south-korea-readiness-as-military-handover-looms.html
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, on
his first visit to  South Korea  since taking office, will assess
his ally’s preparations for taking control from the U.S. of
planning against any North Korean attack.  South  Korea  is investing in missile defense, intelligence,
surveillance and munitions capabilities before the December 2015
scheduled handover from the American command. Among the items on
the potential acquisition list are  Boeing Co. (BA)  attack
helicopters, Northrop Grumman Corp. drones and Textron Systems
Corp. advanced anti-armor cluster bombs. The U.S. also has
advocated the purchase of advanced missile-intercept systems.  “The big ones are what we have identified already and are
working with -- obviously missile defense is a huge part of
this,” Hagel told reporters on Sept. 28 en route to the region,
when asked what improvements should be in place for the transfer
that was postponed from an April 2012 target. Hagel said the
timetable and any potential additional delays will be discussed.  Hagel’s visit comes amid a competition among U.S. and
European combat-jet makers for what would be South Korea’s
biggest weapons deal on record. The investments by  Asia ’s
fourth-largest economy are part of an escalation in capabilities
across the region, with Japan and  China  stepping up military
spending and North Korea developing its nuclear-weapon potency.  South Korea faces the North over one of the world’s most
heavily armed borders, a legacy of the 1950-53  Korean War  that
ended in a truce.  Timetable in Question  South Korea may not be able to stick to the timetable for
the handover. Defense Minister Kim Kwan Jin said at a
parliamentary hearing on Sept. 3 that he doesn’t view December
2015 as the “right” deadline for the transfer of the wartime
operational command, signaling his government would push the
U.S. to delay the timetable. He didn’t say to what point he
thinks the transfer should be delayed.  While the nation views itself prepared for a full-scale
invasion by North Korea, it “still needs to improve in
preparing for hit-and-run attacks,” said Yang Uk, a senior
researcher at Seoul’s Korea Defense and Security Forum. Such
hits include the North’s March 2010 torpedo attack on the ship
Cheonan that killed 46 sailors and November 2010 shelling of
Yeonpyeong island, Yang said.  North Korea  denies attacking the
Cheonan.  ‘Bridging Capabilities’  Hagel will meet with his South Korean counterpart and other
officials this week as the U.S. and the Republic of Korea
commemorate the 60th anniversary of the joint mutual defense act
binding the two nations. The U.S. has committed under a
Strategic Alliance 2015 plan to provide “bridging
capabilities” pending full acquisition by South Korea of needed
combat equipment and communication gear, according to American
officials.  South Korean President Park Geun Hye signaled in March that
her military would not just respond to another North Korean act
of aggression by blunting an attack. “Provocations by the North
will be met by stronger counter-responses,” she said.  South Korea has expressed interest in additional purchases
of Boeing satellite-guided bombs including 2,000-pound bunker
busters and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  air-to-air missiles.  Incoming U.S. Forces Korea Commander Army General Curtis
Scaparrotti in written testimony this year to the Senate Armed
Services Committee said that the Korean peninsula needed an
“upper tier” interceptor such as the Terminal High Altitude
Area Defense system -- known as Thaad and made by Lockheed --
and “more powerful sensors” such as the AN/TPY-2 Radar made by
Raytheon, “to defeat medium and intermediate range missiles.”  Missile Defense  “The Republic of Korea is studying alternatives to improve
their missile defenses” and “an early step will likely be the
upgrade of their Patriot system to the Pac-3 configuration,”
Lockheed Martin Air and Missile Defense Vice President Michael Trotsky, said in an e-mailed statement. “After that, they plan
on studying alternatives which would address defense against
longer range ballistic missiles.”  South Korea will start taking delivery in 2016 of the first
of 36 Boeing Co. AH-64 Apache Longbow helicopters it purchased
in August that are capable of spotting targets while hovering
behind ridge lines and hills. U.S. Army forces in South Korea
use the Longbow Apache now.  The helicopters will improve South Korea’s capability to
“secure its borders and littoral waters as well as conduct
counter-terrorism and counter-piracy operations” and provide
ground support to its troops, according to the Pentagon.  Buying Drones  South Korea also is expected early next year to formally
commit to buying its first  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  Global Hawk
reconnaissance drones, according to a person familiar with the
matter. South Korea’s purchase of as many as four drones, along
with contracts for parts, training and logistical support may be
worth as much as $1.2 billion, the Pentagon estimates.  South Korea also has recently signed a letter of acceptance
to buy the first fielded versions of Textron Systems Corp.’s
smart-anti-armor Sensor Fuzed Weapon, according to people
familiar with the purchases.  The aircraft-dropped weapons will enhance South Korea’s
capability to “defeat a wide range of enemy defenses including
fortifications, armored vehicles, and maritime threats,”
according to a Pentagon press release.  ‘Risk of Confrontation’  The region is “probably the only place in the world where
we have always a risk of confrontation, when two sides are
looking clearly and directly at each other,” Hagel said after a
visit today to Observation Post Ouellette at the tip of the
Demilitarized Zone separating the two Koreas.  The U.S.-South Korean position is about 10 meters from the
nearest North Korean post.  “There’s no margin for error up here,” said Hagel,
sporting a green wind-breaker with the 2nd Infantry Division
insignia, during a press briefing at South Korea’s Freedom House
in the Panmunjom area of the DMZ.  Hagel said there is no consideration within the U.S.
government to reduce for budget reasons the 28,500 U.S. troops
in South Korea.  The Pentagon “will manage through any reductions it has to
take,” Hagel said. The Pentagon will continue to manage future
budget reductions and “at the same time assure our partners --
and specifically here in the Asia-Pacific -- that our commitment
still stands.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Kim in  Seoul  at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  