-- Taiwan Ruling Party’s Appeal on Speaker’s Ouster Fails Again
-- B y   Y u - H u a y   S u n   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2013-09-30T09:15:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/taiwan-ruling-party-fails-another-court-test-on-speaker-s-ouster.html
An appeals court upheld a freeze on
the Taiwanese ruling party’s bid to expel the speaker of
parliament, in a setback for President Ma Ying-jeou’s bid to
move on from a series of political scandals.  Taiwan’s  High Court  ruled today the Kuomintang can’t expel
Wang Jin-pyng until a determination is made on whether he tried
to stop the prosecution of an opposition lawmaker, as the party
claims. The Kuomintang said he tarnished its reputation, while
Wang denies any wrongdoing.  The court ruling further slows Ma’s bid to get past a
string of scandals -- including the death of a military
conscript and plagiarism claims -- that resulted in the
resignations of 10 cabinet-level officials this year. Ma, whose
approval rating is less than 10 percent, incurred criticism for
allegedly circumventing due process in Wang’s case.  The Kuomintang will continue its litigation against Wang,
Ma’s office said after the ruling.  Opposition Democratic Progressive Party Chairman Su Tseng-chang today called for recall or impeachment proceedings against
the president and a no-confidence vote against Premier Jiang Yi-huah for their handling of Wang’s case. The party will seek
cooperation from other parties for the motion, according to
party international affairs director Liu Shih-chung. The DPP has
40 of 113 seats in the legislature to the Kuomintang’s 65.  China Agreement  Earlier this year, Wang was recorded on a tapped mobile
phone line telling opposition Democratic Progressive Party whip
Ker Chien-ming that prosecutors wouldn’t appeal his not-guilty
verdict in a commercial trust case. A Kuomintang disciplinary
committee revoked Wang’s membership Sept. 11  Wang presided over legislative proceedings in a new session
that began Sept. 17, after the Taipei District Court first froze
his expulsion. Ma is seeking support for policy priorities
including the lowering trade barriers with  China , and
construction on a fourth nuclear power plant. The DPP’s Ker said
today the China trade agreement “won’t pass by year-end.”  Ma’s approval rating fell last month to 9.2 percent,
according to the Era TV television network.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net ;
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  