-- Taiwan Dollar Heads for Best Month in a Year on Capital Inflows
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e
-- 2013-09-30T02:51:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/taiwan-dollar-heads-for-best-month-in-a-year-on-capital-inflows.html
Taiwan ’s dollar headed for the best
month in a year after foreign investors boosted holdings of the
island’s stocks.  Government bonds  rose.  The local dollar strengthened 1.4 percent this month and
1.9 percent this quarter to NT$29.570 against the greenback as
of 10:24 a.m., prices from Taipei Forex Inc. show. That’s the
biggest monthly advance since September 2012. The currency
gained 0.3 percent today.  Global funds poured $4.3 billion into Taiwanese equities
this month, taking the year’s net inflows to $5.69 billion,
exchange data show. The local dollar touched a four-month high
last week after the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly refrained from
tapering stimulus that’s buoyed emerging-market assets. Exports,
which account for about three-quarters of the island’s economy,
climbed for a fourth month in August as data from China and the
U.S. signaled global demand is improving.  “Starting from May, although global funds reduced
positions in  emerging markets , funds were also reallocated from
weaker to stronger places like  South Korea  and Taiwan,” said
Andrew Tsai, an economist at KGI Securities in Taipei. “As we
gradually enter an upcycle, investors also tend to turn to
places that are export-oriented or highly sensitive to cyclical
growth, which are also these two places.”  The currency pared a 0.4 percent gain during the last 12
minutes of trading on Sept. 27 amid suspected central bank
intervention. The authority has sold the local dollar in the
run-up to the close on most days since March 2012, according to
traders who asked not to be identified.  Bonds, Forwards  Asian stocks fell today as the U.S. government headed for a
shutdown amid a budget stalemate and the next fiscal dispute
over raising the debt ceiling loomed.  “With uncertainties such as the U.S. debt ceiling and a
possible government shutdown, funds will be more conservative
now,” Tsai added. “We’ll see a slowdown in the  Taiwan dollar ’s
appreciation. In the short term, it may only rise to NT$29.35.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards in the Taiwan dollar
rose 1.2 percent this month to NT$29.547 against the U.S.
counterpart, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
contracts declined 0.1 percent today.  The yield on the 1.75 percent government notes due
September 2023 dropped five basis points this month to 1.678
percent, according to Gretai Securities Market. The rate fell
five basis points today after surging 10 basis points on Sept.
27 on speculation the central bank will raise borrowing costs.  One-month implied volatility, a gauge of expected moves in
the  exchange rate  used to price options, added 10 basis points,
or 0.1 percentage point, this month to 3.83 percent. The measure
dropped three basis points today.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was little changed
this month and today at 0.385 percent, a weighted average
compiled by the Taiwan Interbank Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justina Lee in  Hong Kong  at 
 jlee1489@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  