-- America Movil Talks With KPN Said to Be Snagged on Price
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2013-10-01T20:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/america-movil-talks-with-kpn-said-to-be-snagged-on-price.html
America Movil  SAB’s plan to acquire
 Royal KPN NV (KPN)  has hit a snag over price disagreements, with the
Dutch phone carrier’s management holding out for a higher offer,
according to people with knowledge of the discussions.  KPN is pushing for America Movil to raise its initial 2.40-euro-a-share proposal, arguing that a tax offset from the sale
of its German unit makes the company more valuable, said two of
the people, who asked not to be identified because the talks are
private. America Movil is pointing to the recent entry of  Ziggo
NV (ZIGGO)  into the Dutch mobile market as evidence of deteriorating
prospects, justifying the initial price, one of the people said.  America Movil is also having trouble winning over KPN’s
largest shareholder, an independent foundation whose stake of
just under 50 percent allows it to fend off takeovers if it
disagrees with them, the people said. KPN is seeking about 2.65
euros a share, or 7.9 billion euros ($10.7 billion), to reflect
its analysis of the tax decision, one person said.  “With KPN looking for a raised bid of 2.65 euros a share
rather than something closer to 3 euros, this keeps it still
within reach for America Movil,” said Usman Ghazi, an analyst
at Berenberg Bank in  London . “America Movil staying at 2.4
euros could be an attempt to drive expectations down before the
actual tender offer.”  America Movil gained 3.3 percent, the most since July 26,
to 13.43 pesos in Mexico City, where it is based. KPN shares
were  little changed  at 2.36 euros at the close in Amsterdam.  “The big question remains what America Movil’s end game is
with KPN and if it has other plans for KPN that require funds,”
Ghazi said.  Tax Implications  The discussions show the difficulty of assessing the value
of companies in Europe’s beleaguered telecommunications
industry, which is suffering the effects of a sluggish regional
economy, increasing competition and tight regulation. KPN’s
shares have slumped by about 61 percent in the past two years.  Stefan Simons, a KPN spokesman, declined to comment, as did
Walter Samuels, a KPN foundation spokesman. A press official of
America Movil,  Latin America ’s largest mobile-phone company,
also declined to comment.  Dutch tax authorities are allowing The Hague-based KPN to
recognize a tax loss of 3.7 billion euros on the sale of its E-Plus German unit to  Telefonica SA (TEF) , the company said on Sept. 16.
Its shares rose 1.1 percent that day to 2.35 euros, still below
America Movil’s offer price.  Offer Delay  The decision will reduce the tax due on KPN’s income from
next year. KPN shareholders are scheduled to vote on the German
deal tomorrow. Mexican billionaire  Carlos Slim , who controls
America Movil, and Telefonica CEO Cesar Alierta put off years of
rivalry in Latin America to salvage an $11 billion deal, after
the Madrid-based carrier sweetened its bid for E-Plus by at
least 450 million euros.  America Movil views its offer as already accounting for the
tax loss, one of the people with knowledge of the matter said.  “Even if it would make financial sense for America Movil
to sweeten its bid for KPN due to the tax benefit from the sale
of E-Plus, I don’t think Slim will be willing to put his
company’s balance sheet at risk,” said Andres Bolumburu, an
analyst at Banco de Sabadell in  Madrid . “I still believe Slim’s
main purpose was to force Telefonica to boost its offer for E-Plus rather than trying to take over KPN.”  Last week, America Movil said it wouldn’t file its formal
offer for KPN shares until October, a delay from its earlier
September time frame.  The two sides are also still trying to resolve questions
over job protections and investment plans, the people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Cable-TV provider Ziggo, which is 28.5 percent owned by
 Liberty Global Plc (LBTYA) , is pushing into the Dutch mobile market with
low-priced packages, following a playbook pioneered by French
discount operator  Iliad SA. (ILD)  In  France , Iliad has driven down
prices for a range of mobile services, affecting competitors
including Orange SA and  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s SFR.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Laya in  New York  at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  