-- Apple Overtakes Coca-Cola as World’s Most Valuable Brand
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-09-30T12:53:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/apple-overtakes-coca-cola-as-most-valuable-brand-study-finds.html
Apple (AAPL)  has unseated Coca-Cola as the
world’s No. 1 brand, as the company founded by Steve Jobs is a
leader in design and performance,  according to a study  of the
Top 100 brands by Interbrand Corp.  Apple Inc.’s brand value jumped 28 percent to $98.3 billion
and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s rose in second place at $93.3 billion. The
Coca-Cola Co. name slipped from the top spot after 13 years to
third place at $79.2 billion.  “Every so often, a company changes our lives -- not just
with its products, but with its ethos,” Jez Frampton, chief
executive officer at New York-based brand consultancy
Interbrand, said in a statement. Current Apple CEO “ Tim Cook 
has assembled a solid leadership team and has kept  Steve Jobs ’
vision intact -- a vision that has allowed Apple to deliver on
its promise of innovation time and time again.”  The annual study, closely watched by the industry,
determines a brand’s value by examining its financial
performance, role in influencing consumer buying and ability to
secure earnings. The Top 10 is rounded out in descending order
by IBM, Microsoft, GE, McDonald’s, Samsung, Intel and Toyota.
The 100 have a combined value of $1.5 trillion, an 8.4 percent
increase from last year.  Technology names were among the biggest climbers -- and the
biggest decliners as well. Google’s brand value rose 34 percent
and Samsung’s advanced 20 percent. Meanwhile, Nokia dropped to
57th place from 19th with the largest decline in brand value in
the history of the 14-year study. Yahoo and BlackBerry fell off
the rankings altogether.  Industry Turmoil  The shifts in many of the brands’ placements reflects the
turmoil in the technology industry over the past year.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) 
-- which had the largest share of the mobile-handset market
until it was overtaken by Samsung Electronics Co. in 2012 -- was
split this month when  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  agreed to buy the Finnish
company’s phone business for 5.44 billion euros ($7.34 billion).
As part of the deal, Microsoft licensed the Nokia brand for a
decade just for the low-end models. Fancier devices won’t get
the Nokia name any more.  Last week, smartphone pioneer BlackBerry Ltd. said a group
led by Toronto-based insurance company  Fairfax Financial
Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  signed a letter of intent for a $4.7 billion
buyout. The company is cutting a third of its staff and
refocusing just on business customers after the products once so
popular they were known as CrackBerries lost favor to Apple and
Samsung handsets, which offered better Web browsing and wider
ranges of applications.  New names on the Interbrand list include Discovery,
Duracell and Chevrolet. The fastest-rising brands were Apple,
Facebook, Prada, Google and Amazon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 