-- Aquiline-Backed CRT Said to Be Negotiating Merger With Pierpont
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-09-30T16:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/aquiline-backed-crt-said-to-be-negotiating-merger-with-pierpont.html
CRT Capital Group LLC is in talks
to combine with Pierpont Securities LLC as fixed-income trading
volumes fail to keep up with the market’s expansion, according
to a person with knowledge of the matter.  CRT, the brokerage backed by Aquiline Capital Partners LLC,
has been negotiating the terms of a merger with Pierpont since
at least August, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. No agreement has been reached
between the  Stamford , Connecticut-based firms and talks may not
lead to a deal.  A deal combining the corporate credit, Treasuries and
structured products businesses of the two firms would add to the
consolidation this year of brokerages that expanded into debt
trading after the financial crisis. Smaller firms are combining
or closing as average daily trading volume falls to 0.3 percent
of the $5.4 trillion U.S. corporate bond market from 0.5 percent
of a $3.5 trillion market in 2009, according to data from the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and Bank of America
Corp. Gleacher & Co. said in April it was closing its fixed-income unit and Knight Capital Group Inc. agreed to sell its
debt-brokerage to  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF)   Tripp Kyle, a spokesman for Aquiline, said he couldn’t
comment, as did Karen Ogden, Pierpont’s chief administrative
officer. Ron Kripalani, chief executive officer of CRT, didn’t
return an e-mail seeking an interview.  CRT expanded after receiving a $225 million investment from
Aquiline, the private-equity firm led by  Jeff Greenberg , in
2010, doubling its staff within two and a half years. The firm
acquired Braver Stern Securities LLC’s sales and trading team in
2011 after that firm failed in an expansion bid. Greenberg was
the former chairman and CEO of Marsh & McLennan Cos. before
founding Aquiline in 2005.  Lehman Failure  Pierpont, which expanded with $200 million from Stone Point
Capital LLC and General Atlantic LLC in 2010, decided to exit
the high-yield bond and loan business as 11 people resigned,
Karen Ogden, the firm’s chief administrative officer, said Sept.
3. Pierpont said it was merging with Cortview Capital Holdings
Inc., which received a $125 million commitment from Warburg
Pincus LLC, according to a statement from the firm at the time.  Private-equity firms saw an opportunity to invest in
broker-dealers as the biggest Wall Street firms reduced the
amount of capital they committed to facilitate bond trading in
the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008.
The 21 primary dealers that do business with the  Federal Reserve 
reduced their holdings by 76 percent from the peak in October
2007 through the end of March, when they started reporting the
data differently, according to data from the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  