-- Aussie Dollar Rises as Rate-Cut Bets Decrease After RBA Decision
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2013-10-01T07:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/australian-dollar-is-near-two-week-low-on-u-s-shutdown-concern.html
Australia ’s dollar climbed against
all its 16 major counterparts as traders pared bets on future
interest-rate cuts after the  Reserve Bank  left borrowing costs
unchanged today.  The currency headed for its first gain on a closing basis
in six days after the the RBA dropped a reference in a statement
to the possibility of a further decline in the Aussie.
Australia’s dollar extended an advance following its biggest
monthly gain since last year after data showed retail sales rose
more than estimated in the South Pacific nation.  “The primary hawkish surprise was that there was not more
pushback against the exchange rate,”  Todd Elmer , the Singapore-based head of Group-of-10 strategy for Asia ex-Japan at
Citigroup Inc., said of the RBA statement. “On a temporary
basis, that certainly has a potential to support the Aussie.”  The Australian dollar jumped 1.1 percent to 94.20 U.S.
cents as of 5:25 p.m. in Sydney. Its  New Zealand  counterpart
advanced 0.4 percent to 83.35 U.S. cents.  Retail sales  in Australia increased 0.4 percent in August
from a month earlier, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney.
The median estimate of economists polled by  Bloomberg News  was a
0.3 percent gain. Sales increased by 0.1 percent in July.  The Aussie appreciated 4.7 percent against the greenback in
September, the biggest monthly advance since June 2012. That
trimmed to 11 percent the decline from a three-month high set in
April. New Zealand’s kiwi jumped 7.4 percent last month, the
most since May 2009.  Rhetoric Change  A weaker Aussie than seen in April “would assist in
rebalancing growth in the economy,” the RBA said today. That
contrasts with a Sept. 3 statement saying the  exchange rate  may
“depreciate further over time.”  Swaps traders reduced wagers on a rate cut by the RBA over
the next 12 months, with a Credit Suisse Group AG  index  on
overnight-index swaps rising to as high as negative 7 basis
points from negative 16 basis points before the RBA decision.  “This is going to be a relief rally” in the Aussie, said
Desmond Chua, a Singapore-based market analyst at CMC Markets.
“External conditions are still not so robust as to pull up the
economy. I do think that the RBA might still be looking at a
slightly easing bias toward the end of the year.”  A manufacturing purchasing manager’s index for  China  rose
to 51.1 in September from 51 the prior month, according to
figures released today by the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics and the Federation of Logistics and Purchasing. That
trailed the median projection of 51.6 in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. A reading above 50 signals expansion.  China’s Economy  Gross domestic product in China, Australia’s biggest export
market, will expand 7.4 percent in 2014, compared with 7.6
percent this year, economists forecast. In Australia, a below-trend growth is expected to continue in the near term as the
economy adjusts to lower levels of mining investment, the RBA
said in a statement today.  “We’ve got this view that the Australian economy is going
to slow further from here because of what’s happening in China
and just because of a natural end of the mining boom,” said
Daniel Martin, a Singapore-based Asian economist at  Capital
Economics . “Growth will probably disappoint,” prompting the
RBA to cut rates at some point, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  