-- Mayor Johnson Says London Unlikely to Suffer House-Price Crash
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-09-30T15:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/mayor-johnson-says-london-unlikely-to-suffer-house-price-crash.html
London  Mayor Boris Johnson said the
capital’s house prices are suffering from “serious inflation”
and demand for property is so high there’s unlikely to be a
house-price bubble that then bursts.  Johnson was speaking a day after Prime Minister David Cameron announced that the second phase of the government’s
“Help to Buy” program will start next week, three months
earlier than planned. Cameron and other ministers have dismissed
criticism that the plan, to aid Britons frozen out of the
property market by the need for high deposits, will create an
unsustainable property boom.  “I do think you are seeing very serious inflation in house
prices in London,” Johnson said in an interview today near
Manchester, northern  England , where he’s attending his party’s
annual conference. “Whether that is likely to produce a popping
of that bubble, a very big fall in house prices, I slightly
doubt, because the natural demand is so strong.”  Help to Buy has drawn warnings of a property bubble from
the International Monetary Fund and from Business Secretary
Vince Cable, a member of the Tories’ coalition partners, the
Liberal Democrats. The first phase, interest-free loans for
buyers of newly built homes, began in April and has already
contributed to the strongest housing market since the financial
crisis. Cameron argues property-price inflation hasn’t hit areas
outside of the capital.  ‘Very Difficult’  “I don’t think there will be a big falling-off of property
values,” Johnson said. “On the contrary, I think Londoners
will continue to find it very difficult to afford new homes. The
answer has got to be to build hundreds of thousands more of
them.”  Asking prices for homes in London were 8.2 percent higher
this month than a year earlier,  Rightmove Plc (RMV)  said Sept. 16.
That’s almost twice as much as the national increase of 4.5
percent.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said Sept. 27 he
will introduce checks every September on the Help to Buy program
with the Bank of England in response to the concerns it might
spark a bubble. The bank’s Financial Policy Committee will
advise Osborne on whether key parameters, such as the price cap
and the fee charged to lenders, remain appropriate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Manchester, England, at
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  