-- Bank-College Debit-Card Deals Criticized by U.S. Consumer Bureau
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-09-30T20:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/bank-college-debit-card-deals-criticized-by-u-s-consumer-bureau.html
Deals between colleges and banks
for co-branded financial services don’t necessarily lead to
better deals for students who sign up for accounts the
partnerships offer, U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
said today.  “College affinity products generally do not appear to have
more attractive features compared to other student checking
products,” Rohit Chopra, assistant director and student loan
ombudsman at the agency, said in a presentation in Washington.  The CFPB and U.S. lawmakers have scrutinized so-called
affinity agreements between colleges and financial services
providers over the possibility that students may be paying
unnecessarily high fees.  A group of lawmakers including Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a
Massachusetts Democrat, last week demanded that a group of banks
including  U.S. Bancorp (USB) ,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC)  and
 SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  produce information about their agreements
with colleges to encourage students to use their products. The
lawmakers described payments or revenue-sharing colleges
sometimes receive from the service providers as “kickbacks.”  Higher One Holdings Inc. (ONE) , a New Haven, Connecticut-based
company that provides financial services to students, also
received a request for information from the lawmakers.  Banks say that they have an interest in treating student
customers well so they come back for other services, such as
auto loans or mortgages, later in life. Anne Gross, vice
president for regulatory affairs at the National Association of
College and University Business Officers, said revenue-sharing
arrangements exist with about 15 educational institutions.  Aid Money  Affinity agreements between a financial services provider
and a college or university typically involve  debit cards  --
often stocked with aid money -- that students can use for
regular expenses. For example, U.S. Bancorp has an agreement
with North Carolina State University to provide a debit card
called “ Wolfpack One ” after the school’s mascot.  Chopra said research on competing products concluded that
unaffiliated banks sometimes offer better terms and conditions
than the ones that partner with colleges. Some of the
unaffiliated banks reimburse fees charged for use of other
institutions’ ATMs, for example.  “In relatively few instances, a student may be unable to
get a checking account unless it is a product arranged through a
school partnership,” Chopra said in the presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  