-- Banks May Need Capital Backstops for Stress Test, Enria Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-30T16:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/banks-may-need-capital-backstops-for-stress-test-enria-says-1-.html
European banks may need to raise
capital after combined stress tests and asset quality reviews
from the European Banking Authority and  European Central Bank 
next year, Andrea Enria, the EBA chairman said.  The EBA’s  stress test  and ECB’s asset quality review will
“run in the same time,” Enria told lawmakers in Brussels
today, with the two institutions preparing a “single outcome”
for each bank.  “There is a very very strong capital buffer already there
to absorb losses,” he said. “But still there could be cases
where banks need to strengthen their capital.  As the ECB prepares to take over supervision of all euro-area lenders in 2014, it will begin a three-phased analysis of
the institutions coming under its umbrella. As laid out by
Executive Board member Yves Mersch in August, the central bank
will start with a risk review before analyzing banks’ balance
sheets and conducting stress tests in collaboration with the
London-based EBA.  The Single Supervisory Mechanism is a step toward a planned
European banking union that is supposed to sever the link
between banks and sovereign debt.  The quality of next year’s European bank stress tests
depends on how well the European Central Bank carries out its
review of lenders’ balance sheets, Enria said responding to
questions from lawmakers in the European Parliament today.  ‘‘The stress test results could be only as good as the
asset quality review which is backing these results,” Enria
said. “And if there is not a serious assessment of banks” then
the stress test “cannot be reliable,” he said.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, put
forward plans earlier this year to centralize crisis management
of banks in the euro area, including through setting up a common
55 billion euro ($74.5 billion) fund, financed by levies on
banks. Nations are also working on the details for how the euro
area’s bailout fund for governments, the European Stability
Mechanism, can directly lend to banks.  Enria, previously head of the supervisory regulations and
policies department at the  Bank of Italy , said he’s “still
dreaming of the moment when we will have a European backstop in
place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  