-- Bard, Vaginal-Mesh Makers, Said to Be in Settlement Talks
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-09-30T15:41:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/bard-vaginal-mesh-makers-said-to-be-in-settlement-talks.html
C.R. Bard Inc. and four other
makers of vaginal-mesh implants accused of injuring women are in
talks to settle thousands of lawsuits, people familiar with the
discussions said.  Lawyers for Bard,  Endo Health Solutions Inc. (ENDP) ,  Boston
Scientific Corp. (BSX)  and two other companies making vaginal inserts
to support women’s pelvic muscles and treat incontinence have
begun talks about settling all suits over their products, the
people familiar with the matter said. Johnson & Johnson, which
also faces suits over the inserts, isn’t involved in the talks,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because they
weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Patients’ lawyers want U.S. District Judge Joseph Goodwin
in Charleston, West Virginia, who is overseeing federal suits
targeting the implants, to appoint a settlement committee, the
people said. The group would include plaintiffs’ lawyers  Henry
Garrard , lead counsel on the Bard cases, and  Joe Rice , a lawyer
who helped negotiate a $246 billion tobacco-litigation accord on
behalf of state attorneys general, the people said.  “I know you all are considering settlement protocols and
the possibility of resolutions,” Goodwin said at a Sept. 18
court hearing. He noted the talks were going on “behind the
scenes.”  The discussions are aimed at resolving more than 30,000
implant suits already filed that have been consolidated before
Goodwin for pre-trial information exchanges, the people said.
The talks also include insert makers  Coloplast A/S (COLOB)  and Cook
Medical Inc., they said.  50,000 Claims  The total number of suits could swell to more than 50,000
as more claimants seek to join the potential settlement, the
people said.  “The liability seems pretty clear on these cases, so
settlement makes sense,” Carl Tobias, who teaches product-liability law at the University of Richmond in  Virginia , said in
an interview. “Given how serious the injuries are and the
number of cases, when you do the math, you can easily come up
with a multibillion-dollar settlement.”  Scott Lowry, a spokesman for Murray Hill, New Jersey-based
Bard, didn’t return a call and an e-mail seeking comment on the
settlement talks. Ulla Lunhus, a Coloplast spokeswoman, said she
couldn’t comment on the talks.  Following Process  “We are following a process that is in accordance with
U.S. law,” she said in a phone interview. “As long as that
process is ongoing, we are not able to make any comment about
it.”  Marsha Lovejoy , a spokeswoman for Bloomington, Indiana-based Cook;  Peter Lucht , a spokesman for Natick, Massachusetts-based Boston Scientific; and Blaine Davis, a spokesman for
Malvern, Pennsylvania-based Endo declined to comment on the
talks.  Bard’s implants have been targeted in more than 12,000
cases while Boston Scientific said in an August regulatory
filing it faces more than 12,000 suits over its vaginal devices.  Endo’s American Medical Systems Inc. unit faces about
13,500 vaginal-mesh claims between state and federal suits,
Davis said in an interview. Coloplast and Cook face about 1,000
claims combined, the people added.  J&J faced 12,250 pelvic mesh claims through June 30,
according to a regulatory filing. Sheri Woodruff, a spokeswoman
for the Ethicon unit of New Brunswick, New Jersey-based J&J,
said it would be “inappropriate” to discuss litigation
involving other manufacturers.  ‘Possibly Unfounded’  “Ethicon is now focusing on trying to efficiently manage
thousands of unverified and possibly unfounded complaints,”
Woodruff said in an e-mail. The company will “request dismissal
of meritless claims, including claims with no compensable
injury, claims barred by the statute of limitations, misfiled
claims, and improperly filed claims.”  Some manufacturers, such as Bard and Endo, already have
settled some suits over the devices. Earlier this year, Endo
officials paid $54.5 million to settle an unspecified number of
cases alleging the company’s vaginal-mesh inserts were
defective.  Coloplast, based in Humlebaek,  Denmark , is the furthest
along with talks to settle all of the more than 600 cases it
faces over its vaginal implants, the people said. The company is
aiming to resolve all litigation over the devices by the end of
the year, they added.  Trial Losses  Bard officials also have settled some vaginal-mesh cases
after losing two trials over the devices. A California state
court jury last year found Bard liable for a woman’s injuries
related to an Avaulta implant in the first case to go trial in a
U.S. court. Jurors said the company should pay $5.5 million in
damages. Bard is liable for $3.6 million under that state’s law.  Goodwin presided at the first federal trial of claims over
Bard’s Avaulta Plus vaginal mesh in August. A jury ordered the
company to pay a total of $2 million in damages to a Georgia
woman who said the device damaged her organs.  Bard officials pulled the Avaulta implants off the market
last year after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ordered
all makers of the devices to study rates of organ damage,
infection and pain during sex linked to their products.  Bard faces more than 8,000 federal claims over Avaulta,
which women allege can cause organ damage and make sexual
intercourse painful when the devices erode.  J&J, which opted out of settlement talks, has battled court
claims against its withdrawn line of vaginal implants. A New
Jersey jury ruled in February the company must pay $11.1 million
in damages to a woman who blamed J&J’s Gynecare Prolift for her
injuries. It was the first case over the devices to go to trial.  J&J Sales  Officials of J&J’s Ethicon unit told Goodwin last year they
would stop selling some vaginal implants after suits over the
devices. The company’s executives have declined to participate
in settlement talks, the people said.  “I expect  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  to discuss settlement when
they think the time is right,” Adam Slater, a New Jersey lawyer
who won the February verdict against the company over vaginal
devices, said in an interview. Slater said he is preparing for
his next trial in March 2014.  Goodwin said in the September hearing that he’s struggling
to find ways to move the “mountain” of vaginal-mesh cases
through the federal courts and is considering combining multiple
plaintiffs’ claims for trial.  “I’m going to keep the bulldozer moving to deal with these
cases,” he said.  Settlement Architect  Lawyers for women suing over the inserts have recommended
that Goodwin tap plaintiff lawyers Garrard, Rice,  Bryan Aylstock 
of  Florida  and  Clayton Clark , a Texas-based litigator, for a
settlement committee empowered to conduct talks with all mesh
manufacturers, the people said.  Rice, one of the architects of the 1998 tobacco settlement,
is known for his  ability  to put together accords in high-profile
cases. Last year, the 59-year-old lawyer helped negotiate a now
$9.6 billion settlement of suits against  BP Plc (BP/)  over the 2010
oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. He declined to comment on his
role in the vaginal-mesh talks.  The vaginal-mesh litigation poses a challenge for Rice and
other settlement negotiators because they are faced with cases
over more than 50 different implants manufactured by six
different companies, the people said. Some of those products
have been pulled from the market while others are still being
implanted, they added.  Rice is focusing his attention first on cases involving
American Medical Systems’ inserts, the people said.  Ellen
Reisman , a Los Angeles-based lawyer representing the device
maker, was one of BP’s lawyers in Gulf oil spill settlement
announced last year, they noted. Reisman was at the Sept. 18
hearing in West Virginia.  Share Activity  Coloplast rose 1.5 percent to 314 kroner ($56.98) in
Copenhagen on news of the vaginal-mesh litigation settlement
talks. The company’s shares have climbed 13.8 percent this year.  Boston Scientific also rose 1.4 percent to $11.68 in  New
York  trading at 11:36 a.m. JNJ fell 4 cents to $86.69 while Bard
fell 81 cents to $114.93. Endo rose 4 cents to $45.65 in Nasdaq
trading.  The Bard consolidated cases are In re  C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR)  Pelvic
Repair System Products Liability Litigation, 10-md-02187, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of West Virginia (Charleston).
The J&J consolidated cases are: In re Ethicon Pelvic Repair
System Products Liability Litigation, 12-md-2327 U.S. District
Court, Southern District of West Virginia (Charleston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  