-- Barnier Presses Gensler for Five-Month U.S. Swap-Platform Delay
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-09-30T19:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/barnier-presses-gensler-for-five-month-u-s-swap-platform-delay.html
U.S. derivatives regulators should
grant a more than five-month delay in registration requirements
for European swap-trading platforms to avoid disruptions in the
$633 trillion global market, said Michel Barnier, the European
Union’s financial services chief.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which is
requiring swap-execution facilities to register by Oct. 2,
should grant an extension to March 14 so the U.S. and Europe can
reach a broader agreement on how to apply their respective rules
to cross-border trades, Barnier said in a letter to Gensler
dated today.  “In the absence of such relief, we risk a fragmentation of
liquidity pools due to the inability of non-U.S. venues to
comply with the U.S. regime, both legally and operationally,”
Barnier said in the letter. “We have already witnessed that
venues are being forced to split their offerings into U.S. and
non-U.S. trading pools.”  The CFTC is overseeing the new platforms as part of an
effort required under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to bring greater
competition and transparency to swaps traded by firms including
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays Plc. (BARC) 
Largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis
and led to the $182.5 billion taxpayer-rescue of insurer
American International Group Inc.  Gary Gensler, CFTC chairman, has held firm on the Oct. 2
deadline, while the agency has granted temporary delays related
to data-reporting and enforcement responsibilities of swap-execution facilities, or Sefs. Three partial delays were
announced on Sept. 27.  Some Approved  A Sef proposed by Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP is
among venues -- including those from IntercontinentalExchange
Inc.,  MarketAxess Holdings Inc. (MKTX)  and Javelin Capital Markets LLC
-- that have won temporary approval from the CFTC, according to
the regulator’s website.  Financial lobbying groups including the International Swaps
and Derivatives Association and the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association’s asset management group have
pressed the CFTC to grant delays in the requirements.  The European Banking Federation trade group said the CFTC
and European regulators need to make further progress on
aligning rules for swap-trading platforms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  