-- Biggest Indian Fund Manager Says Worst Over for Flows
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-09-30T12:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/biggest-fund-manager-says-worst-over-for-flows-corporate-india.html
Prashant Jain , chief investment
officer at  India ’s biggest money manager, said the nation may
have seen the worst of capital outflows as the rupee stabilizes
and rising exports aid corporate earnings.  Overseas funds have bought a net $2.1 billion of domestic
shares this month, the first monthly net inflows since May,
after central bank Governor Raghuram Rajan announced plans to
boost the currency when he took charge on Sept. 4 and the U.S.
Federal Reserve decided to maintain monetary stimulus. Inflows
helped the rupee rebound 10 percent from a record low of 68.845
per dollar last month and the S&P BSE Sensex to jump 8 percent
from its lowest level in a year on Aug. 21.  “The worst of the economic pressures are behind us, and in
six months to a year from today we should be in a much better
situation,” Jain, who manages $17 billion at HDFC Asset
Management Co., said in an interview to Bloomberg TV India.  Jain is betting prospects of improving corporate earnings
will lure foreign investors who withdrew $12.6 billion from
local stocks and bonds in the last three months amid the weakest
economic growth in a decade and a record current-account
deficit.  Standard & Poor’s  said this month there is more than a
one-in-three chance the nation will lose its investment-grade
rating within two years, while Pacific Investment Management Co.
sees a “large” chance of a cut in as little as 12 months.  Overseas Demand  India’s exports rose 13 percent in August from a year ago,
the most since October 2001, and imports dropped 0.7 percent,
government data showed Sept. 10. Shipments were aided by a
currency that is still 13 percent weaker than its five-year
average, and rising demand from developed nations.  Growth in the U.S. beat estimates in the second quarter,
while the euro-area economy expanded 0.3 percent in the three
months ended June from the previous quarter, exiting a record-long recession. The two regions took in 29 percent of India’s
exports in June, Commerce Ministry data show.  The current-account deficit may not worsen because “the
 currency depreciation  is making exports more competitive and
imports more expensive,” said Jain. The gap widened to $21.77
billion in the three months ended June from $18.08 billion in
the previous quarter, data released after trading ended showed.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey was $23 billion.  India’s $1.8 trillion economy may grow 5.5 percent in the
year to March 2014, versus 5 percent in the previous 12-month
period, the weakest pace since 2003, according to central bank
estimates.  Credit Agencies  PIMCO is more cautious amid concern there will be a
sovereign downgrade, while HSBC Holdings Plc sees expansion
slowing to 4 percent this fiscal year.  “Although an outright credit default remains unlikely, the
chance of a sovereign downgrade by one of the major credit
agencies is large in the next 12-18 months,” Roland Mieth,
senior vice president of  emerging markets  at PIMCO Asia Pte, a
unit of the company that runs the world’s biggest bond fund,
said in an interview in  Singapore  on Sept. 16. “In the near
term, we are more cautious on India.”  Bank of America Corp. last month reduced its  forecast  for
earnings per share for the 30 Sensex companies by 3.4 percent to
1,260 rupees for the year to March, joining brokerages from
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Deutsche Bank AG that have cut their
profit growth estimates for the biggest Indian companies.  ‘Negative Choices’  The prospect of higher  interest rates  is adding to risks
for lenders. The S&P BSE Bankex Index sank the most in four
years intraday on Sept. 20 after Governor Rajan unexpectedly
raised the repurchase rate in his first review to fight price
pressures. The gauge slumped 25 percent from its all-time high
on May 16 amid rising defaults and slowing loan growth.  Rajan may add to the increase after specifying he will use
consumer-price inflation as the main guide for monetary policy
for the first time, seven of 10 analysts said in a Bloomberg
survey. India’s consumer gauge rose 9.52 percent in August from
a year earlier, the fastest pace in a basket of 17 Asia-Pacific
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  “India is on our negative choices now,”  Andrew Freris ,
chief  investment adviser  for Asia at BNP Paribas Wealth
Management, said in an interview to Bloomberg TV India on Sept.
27. “The clear writing on the wall is that the  Reserve Bank 
will increase interest rates to cap inflation and to support the
 exchange rate .”  Retail Loans  Jain said he’s picking banks that get the bulk for their
funds from the public over those that depend on deposits from
companies, as a way to cut exposure to lenders with bad debts.
Soured loans in the banking system rose to 3.92 percent of total
lending as of June 30, a five-year high, from 3.4 percent at the
end of March, according to central bank data.  “The divide is greater between the corporate banks and the
retail banks as the fear of non-performing assets on the retail
side is not there,” Jain, 45, said.  Retail loans make up more than half of outstanding loans at
 HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB) , according to data on the bank’s website. The
lender, among the top 10 holdings of the Top 200 fund, has lost
10 percent this year. At  Yes Bank Ltd. (YES)  such loans account for
more than 17 percent of the lender’s total debt, filings show.
The bank’s stock has  slumped  31 percent in 2013.  Jain has added Axis Bank Ltd., IndusInd Bank Ltd. as of
Aug. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He’s also
increased his holding of  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  and  ITC Ltd. (ITC) , data show.  ‘Directly Benefit’  Profit growth “will improve from here” as about half the
companies on the Sensex “will directly benefit” from a weaker
currency, as do those with overseas operations such as  Tata
Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , owner of Jaguar Land Rover, said Jain. Five of the
 best performers  on the 30-stock gauge this year are companies
that get at least 70 percent of their revenue abroad. Earnings
“will be better than the consensus,” he said.  HDFC Top 200 (ITCT200) , India’s largest stock fund, last month added
to its holdings in  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , which accounts for
14 percent of the nation’s exports, Sesa Goa Ltd., which sells
 iron ore  overseas, and  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the mobile-phone
company with operations in 17 African countries, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. The fund has beaten 81 percent of its peers
over the past five years, the data show.  Lenders, among the biggest losers on the Sensex this year,
accounted for 20 percent of the Top 200’s 98 billion rupees in
assets on Aug. 31. Software companies, which get more than half
their revenue from abroad, made up 17 percent, the data show.  Overseas investors  have been net sellers of Indian stocks
in just three of the past 20 years, data from the regulator’s
website going back to 1993 show. Inflows reached a record $29.3
billion in 2010, making the Sensex the top performer among the
world’s 10 biggest markets that year. The largest-ever outflow
in 2008, during the global financial crisis, led to the biggest
annual slump in the gauge of 52 percent.  “Foreigners have a good understanding of the prospects of
this economy and how this country goes through its cycles,”
Jain said. “We are optimistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  