-- Biggest Raw-Materials Rally of Year Seen Stalling
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-10-01T16:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/biggest-raw-materials-rally-of-year-seen-stalling-commodities.html
The biggest rally in commodities in a
year may stall in the fourth quarter as supply of everything
from copper to corn expands, tensions in the Middle East ease
and the Federal Reserve refrains from tapering stimulus as it
seeks more evidence of sustained growth.  Six of 15 commodities will drop by the end of 2013, seven
will gain and two will move less than 1 percent, according to
the median of estimates from 144 analysts surveyed by  Bloomberg
News . Cocoa, gasoline and cotton will lose the most as natural
gas, coffee and soybeans lead the winners. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. says raw-material prices will be mostly lower in a year.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of 24 raw
materials rose 4.8 percent in the third quarter as crude, which
has the biggest weighting, surged on the threat of strikes on
 Syria  that some judged would disrupt oil supply. Gold led metals
higher as the Fed unexpectedly held stimulus steady, increasing
the risk that inflation will accelerate. Corn capped the longest
drop since 2009 as farmers prepared to reap a record world crop.  “The bottom line is it’s going to continue to be a very
mixed picture with different commodities driven by very
different things,” said  Julian Jessop , the head of commodities
research at  Capital Economics  in  London . “People who regard
them as an asset class without thinking about the individual
stories are missing a trick.”  Asset Classes  The S&P GSCI narrowed this year’s loss to 1.9 percent,
still lagging behind the 13 percent advance in the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities and the 2.6 percent gain in the
Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the currency against
10 major peers. The Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index lost 2.4
percent. Global stocks beat all other asset classes in the third
quarter with a 7.4 percent return. Last quarter’s gain for the
S&P GSCI was the most since the 2012 third quarter.  Goldman Sachs forecast in September that its favored gauge,
the S&P GSCI Enhanced Commodity Index, will be 2 percent lower
in 12 months, with declines in energy, precious metals,
agriculture and livestock. Investors may still profit by buying
and rolling contracts closest to delivery in backwardated
markets such as oil, where prices are declining into the future,
the bank’s analysts said.  Credit Suisse Group AG said Sept. 20 it recommended a
neutral position in commodities because stabilizing Chinese
economic growth has yet to boost demand. The Asian nation, the
biggest consumer of everything from coal to cotton to copper,
will expand 7.6 percent in 2013 and 7.4 percent in 2014, the
weakest level in almost a quarter century, according to the mean
of 56 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  West Africa  Nineteen of the S&P GSCI’s 24 commodities rose last
quarter. Cocoa gained 22 percent to $2,640 a metric ton, the
most in four years, with traders anticipating shortages as a
lack of rain threatened West Africa’s crop. With stockpiles
still sufficient to make up a shortfall, analysts expect prices
to drop 7.2 percent from yesterday’s close to $2,450 by the end
of the year on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York , the biggest decline
of any of the 15 raw materials in the Bloomberg News survey.  Rallies in gold and silver also will slow as traders
anticipate less U.S. stimulus. Analysts surveyed Sept. 18-19 by
Bloomberg predicted the Fed will reduce its $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases at a meeting in December. Gold rose 70
percent from December 2008 to June 2011 as the central bank
pumped more than $2 trillion into the financial system. Some
 investors  buy gold and silver as a hedge against accelerating
consumer prices and as protection against currency debasement.  Losing Faith  Gold will rise 1.6 percent to $1,350 an ounce by the end of
December after a 7.6 percent advance in the third quarter that
was the largest gain in a year, according to the survey. Prices
are still poised for the first annual drop since 2000 after
tumbling into a  bear market  in April as some investors lost
faith in the metal as a store of value. Silver will appreciate
1.4 percent to $22 an ounce, after rising 10 percent to $21.69
in the past three months.  U.S. natural gas will advance 9.6 percent to $3.90 per
million British thermal units by the end of December on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , as the Northern Hemisphere’s winter
boosts demand for heating. That’s the most of any of the
commodities in the Bloomberg News survey and compares with last
quarter’s 0.1 percent loss.  Arabica coffee will be the second-best performer, rising
4.7 percent to $1.19 a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in New York, as
lower Central American output and increasing demand cut the
world’s surplus. Next quarter’s gain still won’t be enough to
erase this year’s 20 percent retreat or even last quarter’s 5.6
percent drop that reduced costs for Seattle-based  Starbucks
Corp. (SBUX) , the largest coffee-shop chain.  Bear Market  Raw sugar will be little changed at 18.2 cents a pound by
the end of the year, even as global production contracts for the
first time in five years just as demand expands to a record.
Prices rebounded 7.2 percent last quarter, still not enough for
the commodity to exit the bear market that began in September
2012.  Commodity assets under management rose to a four-month high
at $363 billion in August, according to a report today from
London-based Barclays Plc, which tracks index and exchange-traded funds and medium-term notes. Holdings are still about $65
billion less than at the end of 2012. Combined  open interest , or
contracts outstanding, across the members of the S&P GSCI fell
0.5 percent in the past quarter, trimming this year’s expansion
to 8.2 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Super Cycle  Speculation that the super cycle, or longer-than-average
period of rising prices, in commodities is over is premature,
McKinsey & Co. said Sept. 26. Some supply is still constrained
and emerging-market demand is strengthening, McKinsey said in a
report. The S&P GSCI rose 73 percent since the end of 2001.  “There seems to be a constant discussion at the moment
that the super cycle is coming to an end, but I’m not a believer
in that,” said Jeremy Baker, a senior commodities strategist
who helps oversee about $700 million at Harcourt Investment
Consulting AG in Zurich. “Continued infrastructure development
and  capital investment  will support broader commodities.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased combined
bullish bets on a basket of 18 commodities for the first time in
four weeks at the end of last month, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show.  Corn Slump  Corn, which was the third quarter’s worst-performing
commodity after slumping 14 percent, may rebound 1.9 percent to
$4.50 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade by Dec. 31,
Bloomberg’s survey showed. The grain dropped for four straight
quarters, the longest losing streak since 2009. Soybeans will
gain 3.3 percent to $13.25 a bushel. Prices of both crops slid
yesterday after a government report showed larger U.S.
inventories than analysts expected. U.S. farmers are set to
harvest bigger crops after drought cut production last year.  Cheaper grains help contain costs for Laurel, Mississippi-based  Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM) , the third-largest U.S. poultry
producer, and Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson Foods Inc., the
biggest U.S. meat processor. World food prices tracked by the
 United Nations  fell for a fourth consecutive month in August.  U.S. Benchmark  West Texas Intermediate crude, the U.S. benchmark, will be
little changed at $103 a barrel by the end of the year on the
Nymex bourse. Brent, the European benchmark, will drop 3.6
percent to $104.50 a barrel. Both had risen on the threat of
military strikes on Syria, which receded after the U.S. and
 Russia  agreed last month on a plan for the Middle East nation to
surrender its chemical weapons.  Copper will drop 2.7 percent to $7,107.50 a ton on the
London Metal Exchange by the end of the year, paring some of the
previous quarter’s 8.2 percent advance that was spurred by signs
of improving growth in  China . Barclays says supply will outpace
demand this year and next and stockpiles monitored by bourses in
London, Shanghai and New York expanded 60 percent in the past
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s kind of a mixed bag for commodities,” said
 Michael Haigh , the head of commodities research at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “We can see cycles within super
cycles, with the movements ebbing and flowing in commodities.
But the super cycle still holds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  