-- BlackBerry Rare Breakup Fee Seen Deterring Bids: Real M&A
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o ,   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2013-09-30T20:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/blackberry-rare-breakup-fee-seen-deterring-bids-real-m-a.html
BlackBerry Ltd. (BBRY)  was so desperate to
find a buyer that it agreed to pay its biggest shareholder a
rare breakup fee for a tentative takeover offer -- a move that
could deter rival bidders.  The struggling smartphone maker last week said a group led
by  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , a Toronto-based insurance
company, signed a letter of intent for a $4.7 billion buyout.
While Fairfax Chief Executive Officer  Prem Watsa  hasn’t yet
identified the rest of the buyout group or obtained committed
financing, BlackBerry agreed to pay the group a $157 million fee
if it strikes a better deal with another buyer.  BlackBerry’s willingness to agree to a fee without signing
a definitive agreement is “unheard of” and may have a chilling
effect on its auction, according to Tor Braham, the former head
of technology investment banking at Deutsche Bank AG. If a
higher bid comes along, Watsa -- a BlackBerry  board member  until
last month -- gets the termination fee plus he can cash out on
an almost 10 percent holding.  “It’s a desperate situation,” Willy Shih, a professor of
management practice at  Harvard Business School  and former
executive at Eastman Kodak Co., said in a phone interview. “The
terms of the deal recognize their difficult situation. Fairfax
is pretty shrewd.”  This is a “beautiful” deal for Watsa, Shih said.  BlackBerry spokesman Adam Emery declined to comment on how
the termination fee structure affects the auction.  Paul Rivett ,
president of Fairfax, didn’t respond to e-mails or phone calls
seeking comment on the deal terms.  Breakup Fee  Should it back out of the tentative agreement, BlackBerry
will owe Fairfax a fee of 30 cents a share, or about $157
million, the Waterloo, Ontario-based company said in a Sept. 23
statement. The agreement doesn’t say that Fairfax, whose offer
is still subject to due diligence and negotiation, owes
BlackBerry anything if its proposal isn’t consummated.
BlackBerry won’t owe a fee if the consortium lowers its bid
below $9 a share without board approval.  The breakup fee rises to 50 cents a share, or about $262
million, if the smartphone maker and Fairfax sign a definitive
transaction. That higher fee is about 5.6 percent of the deal
value, above the average termination fee of 3.5 percent for
U.S.-based targets in 2012, according to a  June report  by
investment banking firm Houlihan Lokey.  “It’s highly unusual that a seller gives a breakup fee to
a buyer with no committed financing,” Morton Pierce, a New
York-based partner in the mergers and acquisitions group of law
firm White & Case LLP, said in a phone interview. “You don’t do
that if you have options.”  Disappointing Earnings  BlackBerry is eliminating a third of its staff and
refocusing on only business customers after quarterly revenue
missed analysts’ estimates by half. Sales in the Americas fell
faster than anywhere else, tumbling 56 percent to $610 million
for the three months through August.  Investors remain skeptical about a better deal, with the
 stock  closing last week about 11 percent below Fairfax’s offer
of $9 a share.  Today, BlackBerry shares fell 1.1 percent to $7.95.  The fee “very well could be enough money to deter a
private-equity fund from jumping in,” Braham said by e-mail. A
leveraged buyout firm “would inherently be tight for capital,
and having to borrow an extra $150 million to go to Fairfax
could make someone say, ‘Life is too short.’”  No Confidence  Bankers had been canvassing potential buyers in search of a
deal for almost a year, two people with knowledge of the matter
told  Bloomberg News  in August. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  RBC
Capital Markets  quietly contacted possible bidders and found
little interest in the whole company, especially among private-equity firms, said the people, who asked not to be named because
the talks were private.  Silver Lake Management LLC, which is taking struggling
personal-computer maker Dell Inc. private for $24.9 billion with
founder  Michael Dell , said it looked at taking a stake in
BlackBerry and decided against it.  “We don’t have enough confidence to underwrite what the
business plan will look like,” Michael Bingle, a managing
partner at the private-equity firm, said Sept. 27 at a
conference in  New York . “When you don’t have that confidence,
it’s tough to really pursue this opportunity.”  Two of  Canada ’s largest pension funds, the  Ontario
Teachers’ Pension Plan  and the Alberta Investment Management
Corp., held preliminary discussions with Fairfax about its bid
for BlackBerry, two people familiar with the talks said. The
funds aren’t interested in backing a bid for the whole company
and haven’t joined the bidding consortium yet, the people said
last week.  ‘Free Look’  While the termination fee isn’t necessarily a “deal
killer” for potential rival bidders, it’s more likely to help
Fairfax find firms to join its consortium, said  Colin Gillis , an
analyst at BGC Partners LP in New York.  “Fairfax gets a free look and can walk away with no
penalty until Nov. 4th,” Gillis said in a research note last
week. “The risk of a bidding war breaking out for BlackBerry is
low, particularly given what we view are favorable terms to
Fairfax.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  