-- Boeing Dreamliner Risks Certification Delay on Shutdown
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-09-30T19:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/boeing-dreamliner-risks-certification-delay-on-shutdown.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s new, bigger 787
Dreamliner and other aircraft ready to be delivered to airline
customers may face certification delays because of a looming
U.S. government shutdown.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  will delay “all
aircraft certification” depending on the length of the
shutdown, the agency said today in an e-mailed statement. A
lengthy government paralysis could eventually affect aircraft
development programs like Boeing’s 787-9, a stretched version of
its marquee Dreamliner, said John Dern, a spokesman for Chicago-based Boeing.  “It depends how long this goes on for,” Dern said in a
phone interview. “We have contingency plans in place to deal
with interruptions to our normal operations if there’s a
government shutdown.”  Boeing is catching a break since any shutdown would occur
after its typical end-of-quarter flurry in aircraft deliveries
and should have “no impact on near-term results,”  Howard Rubel , a New York-based aerospace analyst with Jefferies Inc.,
said in an e-mail.  Aircraft certification workers are among the 15,514 FAA
employees who are due to be furloughed at midnight tonight if
Congress isn’t able to reach an agreement to extend government
funding. While 2,800 workers may be recalled to perform
operational safety work, employees handling certification and
support would remain on furlough, according to contingency plans
posted on the  Transportation Department ’s website.  Maiden Flight  Boeing’s 787-9 Dreamliner took its first flight earlier
this month and is expected to begin service for Air New Zealand
Ltd. by mid-2014 after it completes flight testing and
certification. The world’s largest planemaker doesn’t expect
other aircraft deliveries to be interrupted since Boeing workers
specially designated by the FAA already handle final approvals
for most jets leaving Boeing’s factories, Dern said.  “We would anticipate that deliveries of most commercial
airplanes would continue during a shutdown,” Dern said. “We
have the delegated authority to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  