-- Boris Johnson Says He Has No Plans to Run for Tory Leadership
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-09-30T14:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/boris-johnson-says-he-has-no-plans-to-run-for-tory-leadership.html
London Mayor  Boris Johnson  said
he’s not intending to make a bid to become U.K. Conservative
Party leader after being quoted as saying last week that he
missed being a member of Parliament.  “I have no such plans,” Johnson said in an interview
today when asked to clarify whether he still has ambitions to
lead the Tories. “Ever, now, whenever.”  Johnson, who’s favorite among Tory activists to succeed
Prime Minister  David Cameron  as party leader, has hinted that he
would be ready to do the job if called upon. He was quoted by
the Financial Times last week as saying that “for the first
time in years, I wished I was in Parliament” during last
month’s debate over whether to take military action against
 Syria .  Johnson, who would have to return to Parliament as a
lawmaker in order to run for the Tory leadership, has previously
refused to rule himself out as a future head of the party.
Cameron is currently trailing the opposition  Labour Party  in
opinion polls and there is speculation he may face a leadership
challenge if the Tories lose the 2015 general election.  Johnson made his comments in Middleton, on the outskirts of
Manchester, the northern English city where the Tories are
holding their annual party conference. The London mayor is
scheduled to address the convention tomorrow morning.  A poll of 852 Conservative Party members carried out by
YouGov Plc on behalf of Tim Bale, who teaches politics at Queen
Mary, University of  London , found 38 percent would vote for
Johnson as their first preference, with Home Secretary Theresa May second with 18 percent.  Johnson made a lower-profile entrance to the Tory
conference this year than in 2012. Last year he was greeted by
ranks of photographers and crowds chanting “Boris, Boris” at
Birmingham’s New Street station. Today he visited a factory that
makes signage for London buses, part of a drive to show that the
capital has created jobs elsewhere around the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in Manchester, England, or
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  