-- Brazil Real Posts Biggest Monthly Gain Since ’11 on Intervention
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-09-30T21:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/brazil-real-heads-for-biggest-monthly-gain-in-almost-two-years.html
Brazil ’s real posted its biggest
monthly gain in almost two years after the central bank raised
its forecast for inflation next year, adding to speculation that
it will maintain intervention to support the currency.  The real advanced 1.6 percent to 2.2170 per dollar in Sao
Paulo today, the best performance among 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It has climbed 7.6 percent this month, the
most since October 2011, and has gained 0.7 percent in the third
quarter.  “The market sees the central bank working for a more
comfortable  exchange rate  to help fight inflation,” Jose Carlos Amado, a currency trader at Renascenca DTVM, said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo.  The currency has surged since Aug. 22, when Brazil
announced a $60 billion intervention program after the real sank
to the lowest in almost five years. Central bank President
Alexandre Tombini signaled last week that the program would
remain in effect.  Central bank policy makers said in their quarterly
inflation report today that consumer prices will rise 5.7
percent next year even if they raise the target lending rate to
9.75 percent by year-end. The projection three months earlier
was for annual inflation of 5.2 percent.  Following the release of the report, Carlos Hamilton, the
central bank director for economic policy, told reporters in
Brasilia that inflation remains at an “uncomfortable” level
and that projections show a slow retreat.  Monetary Policy  Traders maintained bets that policy makers will increase
the benchmark lending rate by a half-percentage point in October
for a fourth straight meeting. The central bank has raised
borrowing costs by 175 basis points to 9 percent since April,
the most in the world.  Swap rates due in January 2015 rose 10 basis points, or 0.1
percentage point, to 10.24 percent today. Swap rates have fallen
29 basis this month, paring their quarterly increase to 37 basis
points.  Consumer prices  rose 5.93 percent in the year through mid-September, the first time in nine months annual inflation was
below 6 percent. Policy makers seek to keep inflation within a
range of 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  