-- Brazil Allows Workers to Use More of Their FGTS Funds on Housing
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o   a n d   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-09-30T22:48:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/brazil-allows-workers-to-use-more-of-their-fgts-funds-on-housing.html
Brazil ’s national monetary council
increased the amount of money Brazilians can use to purchase
homes from funds set aside in the government’s compensation fund
for workers to help offset rising housing costs.  Brazilians can now tap the fund, known as the FGTS, to
purchase properties worth as much as 750,000 reais ($339,000) in
Sao Paulo,  Minas Gerais  and  Rio de Janeiro  states, plus the
Federal District, and 650,000 reais elsewhere. The council
raised the limits from 500,000 reais due to higher construction
prices, according to Julio Carneiro, the central bank’s deputy
head of financial system regulation.  “Real estate credit will not have a boom with this
measure,” Carneiro told reporters in Brasilia. “It is going to
maintain its trajectory.”  Brazil’s annual  inflation  rate has twice breached the top
of the central bank’s target range this year. While consumer
prices have since cooled, policy makers have pursued the most
aggressive  monetary policy  of major economies tracked worldwide
by Bloomberg.  Consumer prices  rose 5.93 percent in the year through mid-September, while the central bank targets an annual rate of 2.5
percent to 6.5 percent.  The average cost of construction materials per square meter
rose 3 percent in the year through August, more than double the
pace of the prior 12 months, according to data from the national
statistics institute.  The increase in the FGTS limit had been requested by non-government banks aiming to stimulate the mortgage sector,
newspaper Estado de  Sao Paulo  reported this year. The last
adjustment to the limit was in April 2009, Carneiro said.  The monetary policy council is made up of the central bank,
the  Finance Ministry , and the Budget and Planning Ministry.
Companies feed the FGTS fund with about 8 percent of workers’
salary every month, and workers receive the funds when they lose
their job.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net ;
David Biller in Rio de Janeiro at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  