-- Brookfield Property Offers to Acquire Brookfield Office
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-09-30T21:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/brookfield-property-partners-offers-to-buy-brookfield-office.html
Brookfield Property Partners LP (BPY-U) 
offered to buy the shares of  Brookfield Office Properties Inc. (BPO) 
that it doesn’t already own to consolidate holdings and create
one of the largest commercial real estate landlords.  Brookfield Property is planning a tender offer of the New
York-based landlord’s shares for stock or cash at a value of
$19.34 each, according to today’s statement. That is 15 percent
more than Brookfield Office’s closing  price  on Sept. 27. The
deal is valued at $5 billion based on Hamilton, Bermuda-based
Brookfield Property’s closing share price, the company said.  The transaction would combine the office company,
restructured in 2010 as an owner of skyscrapers on three
continents, with Brookfield Property’s retail, apartment,
industrial and hotel holdings. Both companies are units of
Toronto-based Brookfield Asset Management Inc., and the deal
would group all of the parent’s commercial real estate
investments under one entity, according to the statement.  “The corporate structure was not what Brookfield wanted it
to be,” said Alex Avery, an analyst at CIBC World Markets Inc.
in Toronto. “They wanted to house all their real estate
investments under one umbrella.”  Brookfield Property, spun off from Brookfield Asset this
year, currently owns 51 percent of Brookfield Office, according
to the statement. The acquisition would create a combined
company with 330 million square feet (31 million square meters)
of office, retail and industrial space on four continents.  Diversified Portfolio  “The combination of these leading commercial real estate
platforms will create a diversified portfolio of best-in-class
real estate for investors seeking attractive risk-adjusted
returns,” Ric Clark, chief executive officer of Brookfield
Property, said in the statement.  Brookfield Property also holds stakes in companies
including  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the No. 2 U.S. mall
owner, and Rouse Properties Inc., a retail landlord spun off
from General Growth.  Executives of Brookfield Asset told investors two weeks ago
that they were looking to make “transformative transactions”
to enhance the value of Brookfield Property and attract new
shareholders, according to Avery. Brookfield Asset, which also
invests in renewable power and infrastructure engineering, held
56 percent of Brookfield Property as of June 30, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  With Brookfield Property trading on its own, “for that to
function properly, it needs to be large, liquid and unique,”
said Avery, who has a “buy” rating on Brookfield Office.  Brookfield Place  Brookfield Office’s assets include lower  Manhattan ’s
Brookfield Place, formerly known as the World Financial Center;
the 72-story First Canadian Place in Toronto; Bank of America
Plaza in  Los Angeles ; and Houston’s Allen Center complex. It
also is in the process of buying MPG Office Trust Inc., making
it the biggest office owner in  downtown Los Angeles .  It also controls office properties in Sydney, Melbourne and
Perth in  Australia , as well as seven buildings and development
sites in  London , including 20 Canada Square in  Canary Wharf  and
the 100 Bishopsgate project.  The acquisition should help Brookfield Office contend with
its highest-profile challenge: finding tenants for some 2.7
million square feet of offices at Brookfield Place New York that
were formerly rented by Merrill Lynch & Co. and its subtenants,
Avery said. The larger company would have more patience to fill
those offices without deeply discounting asking rents, he said.  Brookfield Office shares rose 14 percent, the most since
March 2009, to $19.07. Brookfield Property was little changed at
$19.38.  In a separate statement, Brookfield Office said its board
set up a special committee to review the proposal. It told
shareholders they don’t need to take action at this time.  Shareholders can choose to receive either one limited
partnership unit of Brookfield Property or $19.34 in cash, for a
maximum cash consideration of $1.7 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  