-- Buffett Poised to Get $2 Billion Goldman Stake
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-09-30T20:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/buffett-poised-to-get-2-billion-goldman-stake-with-warrants.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  will get more than $2 billion in Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
stock through warrants acquired during the depths of the 2008
financial crisis.  Berkshire will receive about 13.1 million shares in Goldman
Sachs, according to an agreement that uses the average closing
price on the 10 trading days through today to calculate
Buffett’s stake. The bank fell 1 percent to $158.21 at 4:15 p.m.
in New York, valuing the holding at $2.07 billion.  Goldman Sachs turned to Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire in
2008 to  bolster capital  and shore up market confidence when
shares plunged following the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. Buffett, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive
officer, invested $5 billion for a preferred holding and got
warrants to buy $5 billion of stock for $115 a share.  “Buffett used his position as a white knight and his
reputation to prop up an institution at a time of crisis,” said
Richard Cook, co-founder of Cook & Bynum Capital Management LLC.
“Goldman Sachs is almost certainly better off for it, even
though it was very expensive. And certainly Berkshire
shareholders are better off.”  Goldman Sachs CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein, 59, redeemed the
preferred stake in 2011 at a 10 percent premium. Buffett agreed
in March to exercise the warrants through a cashless
transaction, in which he passed on a chance to spend $5 billion
for stock at below-market prices. He instead gets an amount of
stock equivalent to his paper profit, based on closing prices.  Share Slump  Goldman Sachs shares dropped each of the last six trading
days, making it the worst-performing stock in the 81-company
Standard & Poor’s 500 Financials Index in the period. The lower
the share price, the less stock Buffett gets.  The revised agreement reduced the dilution for Goldman
Sachs holders and let Buffett profit without deploying  more
funds . It also allowed Berkshire to focus on its top holdings,
including Wells Fargo & Co. and Coca-Cola Co.  Such investments, along with acquisitions, have been more
important to Berkshire’s success than bets on New York-based
Goldman Sachs and General Electric Co., Buffett, 83, said in
2012. Still, the capital injections helped bolster Berkshire’s
reputation as “the 800-number when there’s really sort of panic
in the markets,” he said in May, referring to digits used in
toll-free telephone calls in the U.S. Buffett got a 10 percent
annual dividend on the preferred shares.  Bernanke, Paulson  The Goldman Sachs investment was a wager that Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and then-Treasury Department
Secretary Henry Paulson would do whatever it took to stabilize
the economy, Buffett told the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission. The government was willing to add leverage at a time
when the rest of the world was deleveraging, he said.  “It was a bet essentially on the fact that the government
would not really shirk its responsibility,” he said in the
interview, which was released in 2011. “I made the fundamental
decision that we had the right people, in Bernanke and Paulson,
in there with a president that would back them.”  Goldman Sachs’s business model and access to credit were
under threat in September 2008 after Lehman Brothers collapsed
and Merrill Lynch & Co. agreed to sell itself to Bank of America
Corp. Buffett’s investment, along with funds from the U.S.
government, helped Blankfein stabilize his firm and boost
equity. Goldman Sachs repaid taxpayers in 2009.  “It probably did help draw a line in the sand as far as
stemming the panic that was going on at the time,” Cook, whose
company holds Berkshire  shares  and oversees about $285 million,
said of Buffett’s Goldman Sachs investment.  Record Profit  The bank closed at $125.05 on Sept. 23, 2008, the day the
deal was announced. Goldman Sachs rebounded to record profit in
2009 as it took advantage of rallying debt markets and weakened
competitors. Since then, return on equity has remained less than
half of its peak. Blankfein has cut headcount and expenses as
trading and investment-banking activity waned and new capital
rules depressed returns.  Berkshire agreed later in 2008 to invest $3 billion in
General Electric and got warrants expiring Oct. 16 of this year.
Buffett struck a deal in the first quarter to provide for
cashless exercise of those contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  