-- Canada Gas Narrows Discount as TransCanada Lowers Shipment Cost
-- B y   E d w a r d   W e l s c h
-- 2013-09-30T18:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/canada-gas-narrows-discount-as-transcanada-lowers-shipment-cost.html
Canadian natural gas traded at its
strongest price against U.S. gas in nearly two months as
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  lowered short-term tolls on the country’s
largest natural gas pipeline.  Gas shipped from the  Alberta  AECO hub jumped 47 percent to
$2.55 per million British thermal units Friday after TransCanada
 posted  new short-term tolls for October through March. The
spread between AECO and the U.S. benchmark Henry Hub gas
narrowed to 95 cents, its lowest level since Aug. 1, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “They cut prices by anywhere from 50 percent to 75
percent” depending on the route, said  Martin King , an analyst
with FirstEnergy Capital Corp. Representatives for TransCanada
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail requesting comment on
the changes.  TransCanada’s  Mainline  system is 8,762 miles (14,100
kilometers) of pipelines capable of transporting 7 billion cubic
feet of gas a day from Alberta to  Vermont . Shipments have been
declining for years as cheap supplies of shale gas in the
eastern U.S. have priced out Canadian imports. Faced with
declining volumes, TransCanada raised short-term tolls in July
to try to get shippers to sign on to long-term contracts.  Instead, a record amount of Canadian gas flowed into
western storage. Prices this month reached their widest discount
to the U.S. benchmark in five years.  Regional gas  storage  reached 472.7 billion cubic feet last
week, or 98 percent of the capacity surveyed by energy
information firm Canadian Enerdata Ltd., above the previous
record on Oct. 20 last year of 472.5 billion. The  discount  of
AECO gas to  Henry Hub  reached $2.051 on Sept. 20, its widest
level since Sept. 24, 2008.  Market ‘Sensitivity’  The strengthening price of AECO gas due to the toll changes
last week “underscores the sensitivity of this market right
now, when you’ve got fundamentals stacked up against you, in
terms of high storage supplies and weak demand,” King said in
an interview from Calgary.  Price are expected to rise once colder weather brings
winter heating demand. Weather is expected to be warmer than the
normal seasonal average across much of  North America  over the
next two weeks, with temperatures reaching into 80-degree
Fahrenheit range in the eastern U.S., according to a forecast
today by Commodity Weather Group LLC of Bethesda,  Maryland .  “Once it gets down to daytime highs in the single digits
(Celsius) and overnight lows well below freezing, then maybe
we’ll start to get more of a space heating kick,” King said.
“But we also need colder weather really across the rest of the
continent as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Welsch in Calgary at 
 ewelsch1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  