-- Canadian Consumer Confidence at Highest Since 2011
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-09-30T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/canadian-consumer-confidence-at-highest-since-2011.html
Canadian consumer sentiment climbed
to the highest in more than two years as employment rose and the
housing market remained buoyant, according to the new Bloomberg
Nanos Canadian Confidence Index.  The index, a weekly measurement of the economic mood of
Canadians, rose to 59.75 in the period ended Sept. 27, from
59.23 the previous week. That’s the highest since March 2011 for
the index, which tracks consumers’ perceptions of the strength
of the economy, job security, real estate and their financial
situation.  “September remains above average in terms of positive
consumer sentiment in  Canada ,” said  Nik Nanos , chairman of
Nanos Research Group, the Ottawa-based polling company.  The data reflect recent improvement in economic reports.
Job security among Canadians rose this month after Statistics
Canada reported Sept. 6 that the economy  added  59,200 jobs in
August, the second highest total this year. Data this month also
have shown the number of Canadians receiving jobless benefits is
falling.  “Modest improvements in housing finances and the Canadian
labor market are the primary factors for the best reading of the
index in over a year,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior
economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York .  The index has two sub-indexes: the Bloomberg Nanos Canadian
Pocketbook Index on personal finances, and the Bloomberg Nanos
Expectations Sub-index on future views. The data in the indexes
date to 2008 and is based on phone interviews with 1,000
consumers, using a four-week rolling average of 250 respondents.
The results are accurate to within 3.1 percentage points.  Pocketbook Survey  The Pocketbook Index, based on survey responses to
questions on personal finances and  job security , rose to 61.37
from 60.55. The difference between the share of Canadians who
report their jobs are secure and those saying they’re not secure
rose to 59.1 percentage points last week, the most since March
2011.  The  expectations index , based on surveys for the outlook
for the economy and real estate prices, rose to 58.13 from 57.91
as more Canadians predicted  home prices  would rise.  The improvement in attitude comes as the Bloomberg Consumer
Comfort Index, a separate gauge of consumer sentiment in the
U.S., rose for a third straight week.  Canada’s economy grew at its fastest pace in two years in
July, Statistics Canada reported today, with the 0.6 percent
advance reversing the prior month’s drop.  The country’s output is poised to accelerate at a 2.1
percent pace from July to September, after slowing to 1.7
percent in the second quarter, according to Bloomberg economist
surveys.  Housing Rebound  Concerns that Canada’s housing market will cool rapidly are
dissipating. Canadian home sales rose 2.8 percent in August from
the previous month, the  Canadian Real Estate Association 
reported Sept. 16. Sales have increased for six consecutive
months at an average pace of 2.3 percent, the most since January
2011.  The Bloomberg Nanos gauge of Canadians’ view on real estate
strengthened this month, with 38.1 percent polled predicting
increased real estate values in their neighborhoods, up from as
low as 34.5 percent in August. Twenty-one percent of those
surveyed said they are better off financially over the past
year, the highest reading since June.  The youngest age groups, and lowest income earners, are
showing among the biggest confidence gains, according to the
polling results. Consumers in Ontario led gains over the past
week for the Bloomberg Nanos index.  Store Sales  Statistics Canada  reported last week the nation’s retailers
boosted sales in July by 0.6 percent, adding to evidence the
nation’s economy is rebounding.  Statistics Canada also reported today that industrial
product prices rose 0.2 percent in August, while raw materials
prices increased 0.9 percent.  Elsewhere in the economy, Bank of Canada Senior Deputy
Governor Tiff Macklem will give a speech tomorrow in Toronto on
“Global Growth and the Prospects for Canada’s Exports.”  Western University in  London , Ontario will release its  Ivey
Purchasing (IVEYSA)  Managers Index for August at the end of the week,
with economists forecasting a reading of 53.5 from 51 in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  