-- Canada’s Economy Rebounds in July as Construction Resumes
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-09-30T17:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/canada-economy-rebounds-in-july-as-quebec-construction-resumes.html
Canada ’s  gross domestic product 
grew at its fastest pace in two years in July, reversing the
prior month’s drop as the world’s 11th-largest economy tries to
recover from an 18-monthlong slowdown.  Output rose 0.6 percent to an annualized C$1.58 trillion
($1.54 trillion), the biggest gain since July 2011, as the
economy recovered from a construction strike in  Quebec  and
flooding in  Alberta , Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. GDP
had fallen 0.5 percent in June, the biggest decline since the
2009 recession. The median forecast in a Bloomberg economist
 survey  was for 0.5 percent growth in July.  After an initial burst following the recession, Canada’s
economy began to slow last year amid weak global demand for its
goods and a slump in business investment.  Bank of Canada 
Governor Stephen Poloz has predicted a recovery in exports will
help fuel a rebound starting in the second half of this year,
which will eliminate slack in the nation’s economy by 2015 and
lead to higher policy interest rates.  “We are not as bullish as the Bank of Canada in terms of
the contribution of exports to GDP growth,” said  Krishen Rangasamy , senior economist at National Bank Financial in
 Montreal , who forecasts the central bank will wait until 2015 to
increase borrowing costs.  “Today’s data are better than expected, but in our view it
doesn’t change anything in terms of monetary policy,” Rangasamy
said in a telephone interview.  The Canadian dollar rose 0.1 percent to C$1.0295 per  U.S.
dollar  at 12:53 p.m. in Toronto. Investors are pricing in less
than a 50 percent chance of a rate increase by the end of next
year, according to trading in overnight swaps.  Accelerating Growth  The central bank  forecast  in July that growth will
accelerate to a 3.8 percent annualized pace in the third quarter
after slowing to 1.7 percent in the second quarter. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg this month forecast a 2.1 percent rate
from July to September. Canada has averaged annualized quarterly
growth rates of 1.3 percent since the start of 2012, down from 3
percent in 2010 and 2011.  “The bigger story here is that underlying growth is still
just quietly grinding along at a modest pace,”  Doug Porter ,
chief economist at Bank of Montreal’s capital markets unit in
Toronto, said in a note to investors.  The central bank has kept its  key lending rate  at 1 percent
since September 2010, the longest pause since the 1950s, to
encourage investment and spending. The nation’s output in July
was 1.4 percent higher from a year ago, up from a revised 1.1
percent annual increase in June.  ‘Grinding Along’  Construction led gains in July, with the industry posting a
1.9 percent increase in output during the month as it recovered
from a June strike in Quebec. Non-residential building
construction rose 9.2 percent in July.  Manufacturing also rebounded with a 1.1 percent increase in
July, after falling 1 percent in June. Factory production has
been the biggest drag on GDP over the past 12 months, declining
2.6 percent in July from the same month a year ago.  Stronger potash and coal mining, along with increased
drilling and rigging services, helped drive a 1.4 percent gain
in the mining and oil and gas extraction component,  Statistics
Canada  said today.  Goods-producing industries boosted production by 1.2
percent in July, after a 0.9 percent decline in June. Services
producers increased output by 0.3 percent, led by a 1.6 percent
gain by wholesalers, the statistics agency said.  In a separate report, Statistics Canada said today its
 index  of raw-materials prices paid by manufacturers rose 0.9
percent in August from the month before.  The industrial product price index, which measures what
manufacturers receive for their goods, increased 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Theophilos Argitis at   targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  