-- Caribbean Showers Unlikely to Become System, Forecasters Say
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-09-30T16:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/caribbean-showers-unlikely-to-become-system-forecasters-say.html
An area of thunderstorms and low
pressure faces buffeting winds and dry air as it drifts
northwest through the  Caribbean Sea  toward the  Gulf of Mexico .  The storms, designated Invest 97, have a 30 percent chance
of becoming tropical system in the next five days, according to
the U.S.  National Hurricane Center  in Miami.  “I’m more doubtful about the prospects today due to high
wind shear, dry air, and then an approaching cold front this
weekend -- more shear again,” said  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  Tropical systems in the Gulf can affect oil and natural gas
operations in both Mexico and the U.S. The waters are home to 23
percent of U.S. crude production, 5.6 percent of gas output and
more than 45 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according
to the Energy Department.  The Bay of Campeche, in the southwest part of the Gulf, is
where  Petroleos Mexicanos , Mexico’s state-owned oil company
known as Pemex, has its two largest  oil fields , which produce
about 1.25 million barrels a day.  Shear is when winds at various altitudes blow in different
directions or speeds. By doing so, the currents can tear at the
structure of a storm, weakening or destroying it. In addition,
dry air can also disrupt a tropical system from developing.  Farther to the east in the Atlantic, Tropical Storm Jerry
formed with maximum sustained winds of 40 miles (64 kilometers)
per hour. It was 1,325 miles west-southwest of the Azores,
moving east at 7 mph.  “We don’t think Jerry is going to be much of a threat to
anyone,” said Frank Strait, a senior meteorologist at
 AccuWeather Inc . in  State College , Pennsylvania.  Strait said there is a chance a weather front moving off
 North America  will pick Jerry up, possibly breaking it up. If
that doesn’t happen, then the storm may just drift in the
central Atlantic for days without becoming a threat to land.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  