-- CBOE Plans Extended VIX Trading, Russell Volatility Futures
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-09-30T20:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/cboe-plans-extended-vix-trading-russell-volatility-futures-2-.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  said it will
extend the trading hours for futures on the benchmark gauge of
U.S. options prices starting in October, while introducing
contracts on its Russell 2000 Index volatility measure.  Beginning on Oct. 28, futures trading on the Chicago Board
Options Exchange Volatility Index, or VIX, will be open from 3
a.m. to 4:15 p.m. New York time on each weekday, according to a
statement today. On Monday through Thursday, there will be an
additional session from 4:30 p.m. to 5:15 p.m. New York time,
starting on Oct. 21.  CBOE, the biggest operator of American options exchanges,
is trying to win more business outside the U.S. with the
extended hours. A software update to prepare for the shift
caused a malfunction that shut Chicago-based CBOE’s main market
for three-and-a-half hours in April, prompting the company to
delay the introduction of longer VIX futures trading hours.  “We are pleased to provide our European customers with the
opportunity to trade VIX futures during local trading hours, but
we also believe our entire global base of VIX users will benefit
by extended trading hours,” CBOE Chief Executive Officer Edward Tilly said in today’s statement.  Futures based on the Russell 2000 Volatility Index will
start on Oct. 30, with options available for trading “in the
weeks that follow,” the exchange said in a statement today.
While the VIX is based on expected price swings for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, the new contracts will offer investors the
chance to place bets on small-company stocks.  CBOE shares fell 0.3 percent to $45.23 today. The stock has
rallied 54 percent in 2013, the  third-biggest gain  in the
Bloomberg World Exchanges Index and the best performance among
U.S.-based markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  