-- McCain Pressures Justice to Hold JPMorgan Executives Accountable
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   P e t e r   C o o k
-- 2013-09-30T21:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/mccain-pressures-justice-to-hold-jpmorgan-executives-accountable.html
U.S. Senator  John McCain  pressured
the  Justice Department  to hold  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  executives
individually accountable while they work to settle claims that
the bank packaged and sold bad mortgage bonds to investors.  “Will you seek to hold any top officer, director or key
employees within JPMorgan personally accountable for the
wrongdoing?” McCain, of Arizona, wrote in a letter today to
Attorney General Eric Holder. McCain, the ranking Republican on
a Senate subcommittee that probed JPMorgan’s record trading loss
last year, criticized Holder’s Sept. 26 meeting with Chief
Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , calling it “highly unusual.”  The lender is in talks to pay about $11 billion to end
investigations by state and federal authorities into its
mortgage-bond sales practices, according to people familiar with
the talks, who requested anonymity because the negotiations are
private. The discussions are fluid and the size of the
settlement keeps changing, the people said.  McCain asked Holder whether the settlement being discussed
will preclude civil or criminal actions against JPMorgan
executives and whether the structure of the deal will allow the
New York-based bank to receive tax breaks on fines or penalties
it may pay, according to the letter.  ‘Corporate Target’  “Your personal meeting with the CEO of the corporate
target of a major criminal investigation, at the request of the
CEO, while negotiations on a global settlement agreement are
pending, is highly unusual and, under the circumstances that the
meeting occurred, gives rise to concern,” McCain said.  JPMorgan individuals and political action committees have
been among the senator’s top five contributors since 1989,
according to data compiled by the Center for Responsive
Politics, a government watchdog group.  Joe Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment
on McCain’s letter.  The bank incurred losses exceeding $6.2 billion last year
on a derivatives position built by a trader who came to be known
as the London Whale because his bets were so large. The Senate’s
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations issued a 301-page
report accusing JPMorgan of hiding losses and referred its
finding to the SEC and Justice Department in April.  Dimon, 57, is among bank chiefs who will meet with
President  Barack Obama  this week as Wall Street urges Congress
to end the budget stalemate in Washington. The Oct. 2 White
House visit, confirmed by three people familiar with the
schedule, was set up by the Financial Services Forum, a trade
group representing the CEOs of the 19 biggest banking and
insurance firms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Cook  in Washington at 
 pcook6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  