-- McDonald’s Stores Trying Loyalty Program
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-10-01T20:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/mcdonald-s-testing-loyalty-program-to-attract-millennials.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  franchisees are
rolling out an electronic loyalty program in about 570 U.S.
locations as stores seek to attract younger customers.  Mobile solutions marketer Front Flip LLC has introduced a
loyalty application in about 420 McDonald’s stores that rewards
customers with free food and other offerings. It is adding
another 150 locations in coming weeks, Front Flip founder and
Chief Executive Officer Sean Beckner said in an e-mailed
statement.  The world’s largest restaurant chain has been testing a
mobile payment program and introducing new items, such as
pumpkin lattes and chicken wings, to lure teens and young adults
as business in its home market stumbles. Sales at U.S.
restaurants open at least 13 months rose 0.2 percent in August,
trailing the 0.8 percent gain projected by analysts surveyed by
Consensus Metrix.  “It’s targeting toward that younger population,” said
Terry Smith, who owns three McDonald’s restaurants in the
Burlington County, New Jersey, area that started using the Front
Flip loyalty app about seven months ago. Customers can win
prizes such as free cheeseburgers and buy-one, get-one-free Big
Macs after scanning a QR code, a pixelated square that can be
read by a smartphone, he said.  Lisa McComb, a McDonald’s spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  McDonald’s  fell  0.9 percent to $96.21 at the close in New
York. The Oak Brook, Illinois-based company has advanced 9.1
percent this year, trailing the 18 percent gain for the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Restaurants Index.  Curbside Pickup  Earlier this month, the Quarter Pounder seller said it’s
testing a mobile payment app in Salt Lake City and Austin,
 Texas . After ordering via a mobile phone, customers can pick up
food in stores, curbside or at the drive-thru, according to
notes from a June meeting of McDonald’s franchisees and company
executives obtained by Bloomberg News. The system will also
include special promotions, offers and a loyalty program,
according to the notes.  “Younger people are certainly more inclined to use mobile
payments and ordering and also probably more inclined to be
members of loyalty groups,” said Sara Senatore, a New York-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “Young people seem
to have less of an issue with giving over personal
information.”  While  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Panera Bread Co. (PNRA)  have loyalty
programs, there hasn’t been a fast-food company that’s been able
to introduce one yet chainwide, she said.  Front Flip is working with other dining chains including
Ponderosa and Bonanza Steakhouse on loyalty programs.  McDonald’s has about 34,700 locations worldwide, including
more than 14,100 in the U.S. The company is scheduled to report
third-quarter results on Oct. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  