-- Chicago Cubs Fire Manager Dale Sveum Following Last-Place Finish
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-09-30T16:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/chicago-cubs-fire-manager-dale-sveum-following-last-place-finish.html
The  Chicago  Cubs fired manager Dale Sveum after finishing last in their division to miss the
playoffs for the fifth-straight year.  Sveum, who was hired in November 2011 to replace Mike Quade
when Theo Epstein took over as the team’s president of baseball
operations, was dismissed today after Chicago finished its
season with a 66-96 record, the Cubs said on their website.  “Today’s decision to pursue a new manager was not made
because of wins and losses,” Epstein said in a  statement . “Our
record is a function of our long-term building plan and the
moves we have made -- some good, a few we would like back -- to
further this strategy.”  The Cubs’ playoff absence extended their championship
drought to 105 years, the longest in Major League Baseball.  Sveum, 49, went 127-197 in his two seasons in Chicago,
which marked his first full-time managerial job. His only
previous experience was a 12-game interim stint with the
Milwaukee Brewers in 2008.  “We had hoped Dale would grow with our organization to see
it through the building phase to a period of sustained
excellence; instead, I believe Dale, who felt the weight of
losing perhaps more than any of us, will grow because of this
experience and find excellence elsewhere,” Epstein said.  The franchise is transitioning to a point where they’ll
soon “promote many of our best prospects and actually field a
very young, very talented club at the major-league level,” said
Epstein, the general manager of the Boston Red Sox teams that
won the World Series in 2004 and 2007.  The search process for a new manager will begin immediately
and be completed before GM meetings in early November, if not
much sooner, Epstein said.  “The losing has been hard on all of us, but we now have
one of the top farm systems in baseball, some of the very best
prospects in the game, and a clear path forward,” Epstein said.
“I believe a dynamic new voice - and the energy, creativity and
freshness that comes with this type of change - provides us with
the best opportunity to achieve the major league environment we
seek.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  