-- Chicago Index Increases in Sign U.S. Manufacturing Improving
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-09-30T14:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/chicago-index-rose-in-september-in-sign-manufacturing-improving.html
Business activity in the U.S.
expanded more than forecast in September, reaching a four-month
high and adding to signs of a rebound in manufacturing that will
help underpin the world’s biggest economy.  The MNI Chicago Report business barometer rose to 55.7 from
53 in August. Numbers greater than 50 signal expansion. The
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey was 54.  Manufacturing, which makes up about 12 percent of the
economy, is expanding as demand for automobiles, construction
materials and appliances keeps assembly lines busy. A pickup in
business investment and overseas market improvement would help
sustain gains and support economic growth into 2014.  “It’s one of the positives for the economy,” Mike Englund, chief economist at Action Economics LLC in Boulder,
said before the report. “We’re assuming a strong fourth quarter
as assembly rates keep rising, the aircraft sector is also
posting pretty sizeable gains in production. I think you’ve got
a nice floor for the factory sector into year-end.”  Stocks fell, paring a quarterly gain for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, as a stalemate over the  federal budget 
increased the likelihood of a U.S. government shutdown. The  S&P
500  dropped 0.7 percent to 1,679.43 at 10:02 a.m. in New York.  Estimates of 53 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from 52 to 57.1. The index averaged 54.6 in 2012 and 62.8 in
2011.  New Orders  The Chicago group’s gauge of  new orders  increased to 58.9
this month, the highest since February, from 57.2 in August. The
 production  index jumped to 58, the highest since May, from 53
last month, according to today’s report. A measure of  employment 
fell to a five-month low of 53.2 from 54.9.  Economists monitor the Chicago index and other regional
reports for an early reading on the national manufacturing
outlook. The Chicago group includes goods producers and service
providers with operations in the U.S. and abroad, making the
gauge a measure of overall growth.  Other regional factory indexes have showed sustained
expansion. The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s general
economic index showed manufacturing expanded in September,
though the measure eased to 6.3 from 8.2 last month. Readings
greater than zero signal growth in New York, northern  New Jersey 
and southern  Connecticut . Factory activity gauged by the Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s index expanded at the fastest
pace since March 2011.  URS Corp., a San Francisco-based provider of engineering,
construction and technical work for public agencies and private
companies, including facilities maintenance and other services
for industrial businesses, has benefited from the rebound in
factory activity.  ‘Real Turn’  “We see a real resurgence in activity and general
manufacturing in the U.S. and we’re seeing more incoming
questions about front end engineering design work that would
lead, ultimately, to more construction work,” Chief Financial
Officer H. Thomas Hicks said in a Sept. 16 presentation. “There
is real evidence that there is a real turn in the industrial
business in the U.S.”  At the same time, the gains in manufacturing have been
uneven. Factory orders have been slow to pick up. Demand for all
durable goods, those meant to last at least three years, rose
0.1 percent after plunging 8.1 percent in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  