-- Chile Government Proposes a 3.9% Spending Increase for Next Year
-- B y   J a v i e r a   Q u i r o g a
-- 2013-09-30T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/chile-government-proposes-a-3-9-spending-increase-for-next-year.html
Chile ’s government plans to raise
spending 3.9 percent next year, the second-smallest increase
since 2003 and below the central bank’s forecast for economic
growth in 2014.  The budget will focus on employment, education, crime,
poverty, children, pensioners and infrastructure, President
Sebastian Pinera said in a televised address late yesterday,
without giving details.  The increase in spending compares with the 5.9 percent
programmed for this year and 4.7 percent in 2012, according to
the Budget Office. The budget, Pinera’s last as president,
follows two years of student protests for cheaper public
schooling and comes less than two months before presidential
elections. Pinera stressed that he would leave office with the
economy in better shape than when he assumed power four years
earlier.  “We received an economy that grew little, created few jobs
and had a high fiscal deficit,” the president said. “Today it
has recovered its dynamism and it has duplicated its capacity to
grow and create jobs.”  Economic expansion has exceeded 4 percent in all but one of
the past 13 quarters.  Pinera, who is barred by law from running for a second
straight term, reiterated plans to shrink the structural deficit
to 1 percent of gross domestic product from 3.1 percent when he
took office. The structural deficit adjusts revenue for cyclical
swings in commodity prices.  “The incoming government will have a healthy and solid
fiscal, macroeconomic and savings situation,” Pinera said.  The president is supporting the candidacy of ruling
coalition candidate Evelyn Matthei, who will face off against
former President  Michelle Bachelet  in November.  Chile’s peso has gained 0.2 percent in the past three
months against the  U.S. dollar , the biggest increase among major
Latin American currencies after  Colombia . At 2.2 percent, Chile
has the slowest inflation in the region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Javiera Quiroga in Santiago at 
 jquiroga5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  