-- China September Manufacturing Index Misses Preliminary Estimate
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-30T11:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/china-september-factory-index-rises-less-than-analysts-forecast.html
A Chinese manufacturing  index (EC11CHPM)  rose
less than analysts forecast in September, unexpectedly weakening
from a preliminary estimate in a result that casts doubt on the
strength of the economy’s rebound.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index from HSBC Holdings Plc and
 Markit Economics  rose to 50.2 in September from 50.1 in August.
The final number was less than last week’s 51.2 preliminary
reading and the 51.2 median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.
A similar gauge from the government is due tomorrow.  Premier  Li Keqiang  is trying to protect a targeted 7.5
percent expansion for 2013 as the Communist Party prepares for a
meeting in November to set economic policy for coming years. A
Shanghai free-trade zone inaugurated yesterday, tax breaks and
increased railway investment reflect policy makers’ efforts to
restructure the economy, support growth and limit stimulus.  “It is possible that activities weakened in the last 10
days of the month,” said  Wang Tao , a Hong Kong-based economist
for UBS AG, commenting on the gap between the preliminary and
final readings. “This also brings focus on the release of the
official PMI tomorrow.”  Momentum “seems to have been wobbly this month” and
August and September may mark this year’s peak for growth in
industrial production, Wang said.  Li said that China’s economy is stabilizing and the nation
can meet its main economic targets, in remarks today at a
National Day celebration, state radio reported.  Biggest Gap  The gap between the initial and final readings for the
manufacturing index was the biggest since publication of the
preliminary or “flash” reading began in 2011. In a phone
interview,  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit Economics
in London, said he couldn’t explain the difference; “it’s just
one of those things.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
traded in  Hong Kong  fell 1.7 percent, the biggest decline in a
month.  “We expect continuous policy efforts to sustain the
recovery,”  Qu Hongbin , HSBC’s chief China economist in Hong
Kong, said in a statement. “Growth is bottoming out.”  The HSBC report is based on responses from purchasing
managers at more than 420 businesses. The government increased
the number of companies in its manufacturing survey to 3,000
from 820, starting from January’s reading.  Five-Month High  Today’s reading in the HSBC index was the highest in five
months and the second straight month above 50. The mixed picture
from the survey included signs that manufacturing output grew at
a slower pace in September than August, while export orders rose
for the first time in six months.  China’s economy  probably grew 7.7 percent in the third
quarter, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey this month, up from an estimate of 7.5 percent in August.
Growth cooled in the first and second quarters.  China’s State Council says the free-trade zone will allow
trials of  yuan  convertibility in capital flows. At a briefing
yesterday, the zone’s executive deputy director, Dai Haibo,
detailed plans including the establishment of an international
energy center to trade crude futures.  Citigroup Inc. and Bank of China Ltd. are among companies
that will participate in the zone as the government tests
relaxing some financial and investment controls.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  