-- China Inaugurates Shanghai Zone in Financial Reform Drive
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-30T07:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/china-inaugurates-shanghai-zone-in-financial-reform-drive-2-.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Bank of  China 
Ltd. said they will participate in Shanghai’s free-trade zone as
the Chinese government inaugurated the 11-square-mile experiment
in more relaxed financial and investment controls.  The two banks were among the first to announce their
participation in the zone, which opens with the aim of creating
a more efficient and open economic system, Commerce Minister Gao
Hucheng said at a ceremony yesterday.  The area is a testing ground for free-market policies that
Premier Li Keqiang has signaled he may later implement more
broadly in the world’s second-largest economy. Li and President
Xi Jinping are expected to seek support for national plans to
reduce the government’s hand in the economy and financial system
at a Communist Party plenum this November.  “The impact will reveal itself slowly,” said Wellian Wiranto, an investment strategist at the wealth-management unit
of Barclays Plc, which oversees about $217 billion worldwide.
“They are learning as they go, they are trying to see the
impact of the opening up and if it’s applicable to the rest of
country.”  The trial comes as growth in China slows, with Li seeking
to pare dependence on exports and investment, and boost the role
of services and consumption. A Chinese manufacturing gauge
released today for September rose less than analysts forecast.  China’s State Council announced some details for the zone
in a Sept. 27  statement , including plans to allow trials of  yuan 
convertibility in capital flows. At a briefing yesterday, the
zone’s executive deputy director, Dai Haibo, gave more details,
including the establishment of an international energy center to
trade  crude futures .  Limited Reforms  While the backing of the State Council will ensure the
success of the zone, reforms may be limited as the government
wants to be able to replicate the results in other parts of
China, Ting Lu, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch, said in a note today.  Li and other senior Chinese officials didn’t show up at the
ceremony, which “suggests that the Shanghai free-trade zone is
still quite controversial among policymakers,” Lu wrote.  Free-trade zone companies and financial institutions will
be allowed to invest in Shanghai securities and futures markets,
while qualified overseas individuals in the zone may open
accounts to trade local securities, Dai said. Overseas parents
of companies registered in the zone will be able to issue yuan-denominated bonds in China.  Capital Limits  The government also removed minimum registered capital
requirements for some companies in the zone, the State
Administration for Industry & Commerce said in a statement.  Companies with the word Shanghai in their names have led an
11 percent advance, before today, in the  Shanghai Composite
Index (SHCOMP)  since June 27 on speculation they will benefit. At the
same time, there are signs of wariness: Shanghai International
Port (Group) Co. and Shanghai Material Trading Co. tumbled for a
second day Friday after more than doubling this quarter.  It will take “more concrete measures and announcements
coming from the government, underscoring or reinforcing the
function” of the zone for Chinese stocks to gain, Chi Lo, a
Hong Kong-based senior strategist at BNP Paribas Partners, which
managed the equivalent of $622 billion of assets globally, said
in a phone interview today.  Negative List  Foreign investments in 18 sectors including media
organizations, internet bars, as well as the construction of
golf courses, villas and theme parks will be restricted or
banned in the  Shanghai  zone, according to a  list  published on
the website of the city government.  Stocks that have advanced the most so far because of the
Shanghai zone may come under pressure as the plans announced
lack details, Chenjie Liu, Goldman Sachs Gao Hua Securities
Co.’s Beijing-based analyst wrote in a note today.  “Some investors may be disappointed by the lack of bolder
targets or concrete details so far in key areas like financial
innovation and tax,” Liu wrote.  DBS Bank Ltd. and Bank of Communications Co. also said they
received regulatory approval to set up in the zone. Eight
domestic banks joined the two foreign lenders with licenses to
operate, and Bank of Communications has been approved to set up
a financial leasing unit, Liao Min, Shanghai head of the China
Banking Regulatory Commission, said at the briefing.  An additional 25 companies, including units of Porsche AG,
SAIC Motor Corp. and a trading unit of BNP Paribas SA were also
granted licenses, the Oriental Morning Post said on its
microblog yesterday.  Lending Concerns  China’s lending in the last five years has reached a
magnitude that Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said tipped Asian
nations into crisis in the late 1990s. China’s economy grew 7.5
percent from a year earlier in the April-June period, extending
the longest streak of sub-8 percent expansion in at least two
decades.  The free-trade zone “is just a small part of what’s going
on in China,”  Fraser Howie , a director at Newedge Singapore and
co-author of “Red Capitalism: The Fragile Financial Foundation
of China’s Extraordinary Rise,” said of the Shanghai zone.
“It’s not going to solve issues related to the growing debt in
the economy, it’s not going to solve issues of corruption or
environment.”  The establishment of the zone echoes moves by paramount
leader Deng Xiaoping in the late 1970s, when he set in motion
the Shenzhen Special Economic Zone. That allowed foreign
investors to set up factories that employed workers to make
shoes, toys and electronics for export. Policies tested there
were later spread nationwide, sparking a more than 97-fold
expansion of China’s economy.  “The setting up of special economic zones in the 1980s
marked the liberalization of trade, and this Shanghai free trade
zone marks service-sector liberalization and financial market
integration with the global market,” said  Ren Xianfang ,
Beijing-based analyst at  IHS Inc. (IHS)  “It remains to be seen
whether it will spur China’s financial reform.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  