-- Chinese Stocks Advance as Index Caps Best Quarter in Three Years
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-09-30T07:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/china-index-futures-advance-before-manufacturing-data-holidays.html
Chinese stocks  rose, capping the
best quarter in three years, as consumer discretionary and
technology stocks advanced in the last trading day before a
weeklong holiday shuts the nation’s markets.  Shanghai  Oriental Pearl (Group) Co. jumped by the 10
percent daily limit after the central government inaugurated the
Shanghai free trade zone yesterday. Suning Commerce Group Co.,
the retail-chain operator, climbed 10 percent, while BesTV New
Media Co. rallied to a record high.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.7 percent to 2,174.67
at the close. Volumes were 36 percent lower than the 30-day
average. Stocks advanced even after a manufacturing gauge
increased less than analysts forecast. Markets will be closed
Oct. 1-7 for National Day holidays. Companies with the word
Shanghai in their names led gains this quarter on speculation
they will benefit from the government’s plan to cut regulation
in the free-trade area.  “We will see declines in the stock market in the fourth
quarter,” said Xu Shengjun, analyst at Jianghai Securities Co.
“PMI data today is below forecast and there’s expectations
fourth-quarter macro data may be weak.”  The CSI 300 Index added 0.6 percent to 2,409.04, while the
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  slid 1.6 percent, heading for
its biggest loss in a month.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics rose to 50.2 in September from 50.1 in August.
The final number was less than last week’s 51.2 preliminary
reading and the 51.2 median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of economists.  Stock Valuations  The Shanghai index has risen 9.9 percent since June, the
biggest increase since the three months ended September 2010.
The gauge is still down 4.2 percent this year and  trades  at 8.7
times projected earnings for the next 12 months, compared with
the five-year average of 12.6 times.  Shanghai Oriental Pearl surged 10 percent to 10.54  yuan ,
taking its gain this quarter to 91 percent. Shanghai Haibo Co.
jumped 9.9 percent to 7.85 yuan. Shanghai Xinhua Media Co.
climbed 10 percent to 8.38 yuan, gaining by the daily limit for
a second straight day.  The area is a testing ground for free-market policies that
Premier  Li Keqiang  has signaled he may later implement more
broadly in the world’s second-largest economy. Li and President
Xi Jinping are expected to seek support for national plans to
reduce the government’s hand in the economy and financial system
at a Communist Party plenum this November.  Zone Impact  China’s State Council announced some details for the zone
in a Sept. 27 statement, including plans to allow trials of yuan
convertibility in capital flows. At a briefing yesterday, the
zone’s executive deputy director, Dai Haibo, gave more details,
including the establishment of an international energy center to
trade crude futures.  “The impact will reveal itself slowly,” said Wellian Wiranto, an investment strategist at the wealth-management unit
of Barclays Plc, which oversees about $217 billion worldwide.
“They are learning as they go, they are trying to see the
impact of the opening up and if it’s applicable to the rest of
country.”  Gauges (SHSZ300)  tracking consumer discretionary and technology
companies rallied at least 2.4 percent, the most among the 10
industry groups on the CSI 300.  Suning Commerce Group, the retail-chain operator, climbed
10 percent to 12.85 yuan, while BesTV New Media Co. rose 10
percent to 52.35 yuan.  Options traders are paying the least in four months to
protect against drops in the largest Chinese  exchange-traded
fund  in the U.S. on prospects a recovery in the world’s second-largest economy will be sustained.  The  premium  of three-month puts on the iShares China Large-Cap ETF over calls was 3.1 points on Sept. 26, the smallest
since May 21, options data compiled by Bloomberg showed. The
Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded Chinese
stocks in the U.S. dropped 0.4 percent last week, led by  E-House
China Holdings Ltd. (EJ)  and China Unicom ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  