-- China Money Rate Heads for Quarterly Drop on Cash Injections
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-30T03:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/china-money-rate-heads-for-quarterly-drop-on-cash-injections.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
headed for its biggest quarterly drop since the start of 2012
after the central bank resumed cash injections.  The People’s Bank of China started selling reverse-repurchase agreements on July 30, resulting in a net addition of
funds in August and September. The authority  added a net  150.1
billion  yuan  ($25 billion) last week, the most since the period
ended June 7, to help commercial banks meet quarter-end and pre-holiday cash demand. Financial markets will be closed from
tomorrow until Oct. 7 for the National Day holidays.  “The central bank has injected sufficient liquidity in a
timely manner,” said Xue Hexiang, an analyst with Guotai Junan
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “Now that we’ve passed the quarter-end smoothly, there will be bigger room for the PBOC in open-market operations going into October.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the banking system, declined 196 basis points,
or 1.96 percentage points, this quarter to 4.17 percent as of
10:41 a.m. in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average compiled
by the National Interbank Funding Center. The rate gained 31
basis points today and 44 basis points in September, poised for
the first monthly advance since June.  The cost of the one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed
payment to receive the floating seven-day repo rate, fell 16
basis points in September to 3.97 percent, dropping for the
first time in five months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It lost two basis points today and was unchanged
during the quarter.  Demand Gauging  The monetary authority asked commercial banks today to
submit orders for seven- and 14-day reverse-repurchase
agreements, 28-day repurchase contracts and 91-day bills for the
week of Oct. 8, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions.  A Chinese manufacturing gauge rose to 50.2 in September
from 50.1 in August, according to a  Purchasing Managers ’ Index
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics released today. The
National Bureau of Statistics will release the official number
tomorrow. Fifty is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction.  The yield on benchmark 10-year  government bonds  climbed 42
basis points since June 30 to 4.02 percent, set for the biggest
quarterly rise since 2010, according to data from the Interbank
Funding Center show. It fell four basis points today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  