-- China Anti-Graft Teams Report Abuses in Provinces Across Country
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-30T21:37:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/china-anti-graft-teams-report-abuses-in-provinces-across-country.html
Chinese investigators uncovered
bribery and irregular lending as part of a graft probe that took
them to several provinces, a university and a bank, in findings
that underscore the extent of corruption in the country.  Ten teams reporting to  China ’s anti-corruption watchdog
fanned out in May with orders to serve as the Communist Party’s
“eyes and ears” in exposing graft at all levels of the party
structure, the Ministry of Supervision said in a report on its
website yesterday.  The investigation, ordered by the Central Commission for
Discipline Inspection, is a further step to root out corruption
that President Xi Jinping has said may threaten Communist Party
rule. A government anti-corruption and frugality campaign has
targeted lavish spending, illegal property holdings and even the
practice of giving mooncakes as gifts during the annual  Mid-Autumn Festival .  The 10 teams traveled to four provinces and Chongqing
municipality, and visited the Ministry of Water Resources, China
Grain Reserves Corp., the Export-Import Bank of China, Renmin
University and China Publishing Group Corp.  Chongqing is the municipality where ousted Politburo member
Bo Xilai was party secretary before he was ousted in March,
2012. Bo was convicted of abuse of power, bribery and
embezzlement Sept. 22. In a visit to Chongqing, one of the
corruption teams found a “new atmosphere” in economic and
social development since the 18th Communist Party congress, held
in November.  Moral Anomie  In Chongqing, some cadres’ faith has “been shaken, their
thinking has slipped, there is moral anomie and there is risk of
corruption at state-owned enterprises,” according to the
report.  At the  Export-Import Bank of China , one team found that
some people used lending for personal gain and some loans didn’t
comply with the rules, according to the statement. The Export-Import Bank and  China Development Bank  oversee the bulk of loans
made to support Chinese businesses across the globe.  The team also found “clues” about problems with some
leading cadres at the bank, the report said. Their cases have
been transfered to anti-corruption investigators, it said
without giving details.  “Some leaders’ awareness of thrift is not strong,” said
the head of the Export-Import Bank inspection team, Chen
Guanglin, according to the statement.  In  Inner Mongolia , the inspection teams found corruption in
the allocation of mineral resources and project bidding. Some
cadres also received envelopes with cash and presents at
weddings and festivals, it said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  