-- China-U.S. Military Ties Grow as They Eye Each Other at Sea
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-01T06:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/china-u-s-military-ties-grow-as-countries-eye-each-other-at-sea.html
China ’s official People’s Daily
newspaper  lambasted  the U.S. when it led the most recent RIMPAC
naval drill, the Pacific Ocean military simulation held every
other year. The  22-nation  exercise reflected  Washington ’s bid to
“contain the military rise of another country,” it said.  Next year, Chinese ships will join the Rim of the Pacific
exercise for the first time. During a visit to the Pentagon last
month, Foreign Minister Wang Yi described military ties as a
“bright spot” in the U.S.-China relationship.  Wang’s words and China’s participation reflect a changed
attitude as the world’s two biggest militaries boost contacts
despite competing for influence in the Asia-Pacific, home to
shipping lanes and resource reserves. The closer ties will be
tested as China grows more assertive in a region dotted with
nations that would call for U.S. help if attacked.  “The competition and conflicts between China and the U.S.
will still be there, but it will prevent them from escalating to
an unmanageable level,” Yan Xuetong, dean of the Institute of
Modern International Relations at  Tsinghua University  in
Beijing, said by phone. “It is preventable diplomacy rather
than positive cooperation.”  U.S.-China ties will be on display at next week’s Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum leaders meeting in Bali.
China’s territorial disputes in the  South China Sea  may be
discussed, along with changing U.S. and Chinese roles in the
region.  Rising Competition  Military competition between the the U.S. and China is on
the rise even as the two foster closer links, with China’s
defense budget more than doubling since 2006. Though its
military spending is less than one-fifth of the U.S., China has
developed drones, stealth fighters and an  aircraft carrier  while
deploying a type of anti-ship ballistic missile the U.S. says is
meant to threaten U.S. carriers in the region.  That buildout comes as China has pushed its territorial
claims more forcefully in the South and East China seas and as
the U.S. Navy plans to move more forces to the region in a
strategic shift. Four Chinese Coast Guard ships entered Japan-controlled waters around disputed islands about 9 a.m. and left
about 11 a.m. today,  Japan ’s Coast Guard said in e-mailed
statements.  China’s naval expansion “is largely about countering” the
U.S. Pacific Fleet, Captain  James Fanell , deputy chief of staff
for intelligence and information operations at the U.S. Pacific
Fleet headquarters in  Hawaii , said in a January  presentation  at
a conference in  San Diego .  Mutual Defense  “They want to have the capability to make sure that events
do not occur in those three seas that they do not approve of,”
said Bernard Cole, a former Navy officer who teaches at the
National War College in Washington, referring to the Yellow,
East and South China seas. “The problem from a U.S. perspective
is that we have mutual defense treaties with  South Korea , Japan
and the  Philippines .”  Recent contacts offer a counterpoint to unease on both
sides. In August, China’s Defense Minister Chang Wanquan visited
the Pentagon and the commander of China’s navy, Admiral Wu Shengli, got a tour of a U.S. Los Angeles-class  attack submarine 
in San Diego in September. Also last month, three Chinese ships
joined search-and-rescue exercises with the U.S. off Pearl
Harbor, Hawaii.  RIMPAC is held by the U.S. Pacific Fleet in seas around the
Hawaiian islands. The exercises once trained for conflict with
the Soviet Union and later included Russia as a participant.
China was an observer to the drills  in 1998 .  Attend Exercise  Chinese State Councilor Yang Jiechi announced China would
attend  the exercise  after a summit between President  Barack Obama  and President Xi Jinping in  California  in June. During the
talks, the two vowed to build “a new type of military
relations,” Yang said, according to the official Xinhua News
Agency.  “This is to us a very visible manifestation of the idea
that a rising China can provide a positive contribution to
international security,” U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for
Policy  James Miller  said of China’s participation in RIMPAC when
he visited Beijing Sept. 10.  Still, closer ties between the U.S. and the  People’s
Liberation Army  can be reversed, Richard Bitzinger, a senior
fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies in
 Singapore , said by phone. The visits and the RIMPAC exercises
are the “warm fuzzies of military diplomacy,” he said.  U.S. reconnaissance as well as arms sales to  Taiwan  remain
problems in the military relationship with China, Zhao Xiaozhuo,
a researcher with the PLA Academy of Military Science,  wrote  in
the People’s Daily in August.  Sensitive Information  China’s participation in RIMPAC sparked concern in the U.S.
Rep. Randy Forbes, a Virginia Republican,  introduced an
amendment  to the 2014 National Defense Authorization Act seeking
to limit Chinese exposure to “sensitive information obtained
through military-to-military contacts.”  “This it not like turning over an entirely new leaf, this
is just one small step forward to develop a slightly more
positive relationship with the PLA,” Bitzinger said. “There’s
going to be steps forward and steps backward. And every time
there’s a step backward generally U.S.-allied ties get
stronger.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  