-- Colombian Peso Gains as Central Bank Reduces Dollar Purchases
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-09-30T18:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/colombian-peso-gains-as-central-bank-reduces-dollar-purchases.html
Colombia ’s peso rose the most in a
week after the central bank said it will lower the amount of
dollars it plans to purchase to stem the local currency’s gains
as part of its effort to support exporters.  The peso appreciated 0.3 percent to 1,906 per  U.S. dollar 
at the close of trading in Bogota, the biggest gain since Sept.
23. It climbed 0.9 percent this quarter, the most among major
Latin American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Central bank Governor Jose Dario Uribe told reporters after
the monthly policy meeting Sept. 27 that dollar purchases will
slow to no more than $1 billion from October to December from at
least $2.5 billion in June to September. Finance Minister
 Mauricio Cardenas , who is also president of the bank’s board,
said the Banco de la Republica will be “flexible” with dollar
purchases, which won’t necessarily need to be daily.  “Investors had been expecting the central bank to announce
a larger amount,” Alejandro Reyes, the head analyst at
Ultrabursatiles SA brokerage in Bogota, said in a telephone
interview. The peso is also subject to “erratic” movements in
global markets as political wrangling over the U.S. budget
threatens a potential government shutdown tomorrow, Reyes said.  Colombia’s policy makers held the target lending rate at
3.25 percent, as forecast by 29 of 32 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. The decision was unanimous, said Uribe, while
indicating a higher likelihood that economic growth in 2013 will
be similar to last year’s 4.2 percent expansion.  Six-month interest rate swaps increased seven basis points,
or 0.07 percentage point, to 3.24 percent at 1:50 p.m. in
Bogota, the highest level since Aug. 30. They climbed by the
same amount in the third quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  