-- Con Edison: Line Work Likely Caused Metro-North Failure
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   P r i y a   A n a n d
-- 2013-10-01T23:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/con-edison-says-line-work-likely-caused-metro-north-failure.html
Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED) ’s work to
disconnect an electrical cable to accommodate a railroad upgrade
project probably caused a  power failure  that disrupted train
travel on Metro-North’s busiest commuter line.  The company is conducting a thorough review to determine
whether freezing done to take one line out of service led to the
failure of a second line, the New York-based utility owner said
in a statement today. The Sept. 25 power failure has resulted in
delays and clogged trains on Metro-North’s New Haven line, which
serves about 130,000 commuters daily in  Connecticut  and suburban
Westchester County in  New York .  Metro-North ordered Con Edison to remove a feeder cable
earlier this month so that it could upgrade one of the
railroad’s electrical substations, Aaron Donovan, a spokesman
for the state-owned  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , said
in a phone interview. The train operator asked Con Edison to
power the system on the second feeder after testing found “that
there were no defects and there was nothing amiss and it should
have been able to function normally,” Donovan said.  Con Edison expects to completely restore power to the train
line by Oct. 7. Over the weekend, it built temporary feeders
that allowed more electric trains to operate this morning. With
diesel and electric trains, the line has been operating at more
than 50 percent of capacity today, up from a third last week,
Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy said during a news
conference.  Train Refunds  Metro-North said yesterday it would offer 8,600 free park-and-ride spaces in Westchester County and the Bronx to help
commuters traveling to  Manhattan . The board will meet tomorrow
to consider approving credits for customers whose service has
been disrupted by the power loss.  Amtrak  will resume most service on its Acela Express train
line between New York and  Boston  tomorrow.  Con Edison said in the process of removing the high-voltage
transmission line from service, it had to freeze the oil that
insulates a pipe surrounding the line. The company found that
the power fault was located just outside of the “freeze pit”
and the ground nearby was frozen, which “likely contributed to
the feeder failure.”  Freezing lines is a routine operation, taking place several
times a year, and Con Edison said it can’t recall a prior
incident where the surrounding ground was frozen.  “Because this has not occurred before, it’s hard to blame
them for that,” said Ruth Johnson, vice president of
engineering at High Energy Inc. and a member of the  Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers . Given the amount of power
demand for the train system “it’s not like they could bring in
a backup generator just in case.”  Con Edison  fell  1 cent to $55.14 at the close in New York.
The shares have declined 2 percent since the fault occurred.  “They’re going to have to develop some protocol so that we
don’t have one-line feeds ever again on the system,” Malloy
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Priya Anand in New York at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  