-- Connecticut Taps Investors to Fund $1.2 Billion Gap: Muni Deals
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/connecticut-taps-investors-to-fund-1-2-billion-gap-muni-deals.html
Connecticut  is asking investors to
help plug a $1.2 billion general-fund deficit as bonds of the
nation’s wealthiest state beat the municipal market for the
first time in three years.  The $575 million general-obligation sale this week will go
toward filling the gap created when the state implemented
generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, starting this
fiscal year, deal documents show. Legislation passed in 2011
mandated the shift.  The offering by the home state of hedge-fund capital
Greenwich is among the $4.2 billion of long-term municipal
issues scheduled for this week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That’s down from $5.3 billion last week, even as benchmark
yields are the lowest in three months.  The budget shortfall accounted for 6.2 percent of general-fund revenue in the year ended in June, and officials plan to
eliminate the deficit by the end of fiscal 2028, according to
bond documents. The state of 3.6 million people, with $14.7
billion in general obligations, may borrow more to close it,
documents show.  The borrowing, with a final maturity of 2027, will “jump-start the repayment” of the deficit, showing investors “the
state’s commitment to fiscal responsibility,” said Gian-Carl
Casa, undersecretary for legislative affairs in Hartford, in an
e-mail. The bonds “are evidence that the state is addressing
its long-term fiscal health.”  Income Leader  Standard & Poor’s  rates Connecticut debt AA, third-highest,
while Moody’s Investors Service ranks it a step lower at Aa3.
Per capita personal income of about $58,000 in 2011 was the
nation’s highest, according to S&P.  Amid job losses in the finance industry, Connecticut was
the only state to see its economy shrink last year, according to
the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis. Its residents bear the
country’s third-highest burden of state and local levies,
helping drive demand for Connecticut tax-exempt securities.  Debt from Connecticut has lost 1.6 percent in 2013, less
than the decline of 2.9 percent for the entire $3.7 trillion
municipal market through Sept. 26, Barclays Plc data show. The
performance puts it on pace to outperform all local securities
for the first time since 2010.  Governments are borrowing with benchmark yields at the
lowest since June. Individuals pulled about $159 million from
muni-focused mutual funds in the week through Sept. 25, the
smallest withdrawal since May, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net 
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  