-- Contractor’s U.S. Ties Tough to Break After Vetting Lapse
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2013-09-30T21:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/contractor-s-u-s-ties-tough-to-break-after-vetting-lapse.html
Within the next year, the federal
government will have a chance to begin dropping the contractor
whose background checks helped leaker Edward Snowden and the
Washington Navy Yard shooter get security clearances.  Don’t count on it.  As Congress demands answers and expresses outrage, dumping
a firm like USIS, a unit of  Falls Church , Virginia-based
Altegrity Inc. that has more than a half-billion dollars in
federal contracts running out in a year, could create as many
problems as it solves.  It might shift a backlog of cases to two other companies,
which could lead to more vetting lapses. And, any company the
government engaged to replace USIS could just hire the same
people. The Senate  Homeland Security  and Governmental Affairs
Committee planned a hearing tomorrow to examine the clearance
process, only to put it off in the face of a federal shutdown.  “Replacing USIS would be something of a nightmare for the
government,” said Charles Tiefer, a former member of the U.S.
Commission on Wartime Contracting.  USIS has won at least $588 million under U.S. government
contracts set to expire within a year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company is under scrutiny by
lawmakers asking how both Snowden, now a fugitive, and Aaron Alexis managed to get federal security clearances. Alexis’s
clearance gave him access to the base, where he killed 12 people
and died in a shootout with police on Sept. 16.  Top Provider  The agreements include a lucrative deal with the U.S.
 Office of Personnel Management , which is responsible for most
federal background checks. While the expiring contracts might
provide agencies with opportunities to begin dropping USIS,
replacing the government’s top provider of background checks
might lead to more chaos in an already overburdened system.  “USIS provides the heart, the limbs and the guts of the
operation for the Office of Personnel Management,” said Tiefer,
now a law professor at the University of Baltimore.  The number of people with security clearances ballooned to
about 5 million last year, and contract investigators have
struggled to keep up with the demand for background checks,
according to security specialists.  The government increasingly has relied on USIS for that
vetting. The company handled about two-thirds of the
investigations done by contractors, and more than half of all
those performed by the personnel office, according to the office
of  Claire McCaskill , a Missouri Democrat who leads a Senate
subcommittee on contracting oversight.  Heavy Burden  Shifting the load to competitors such as Arlington,
Virginia-based  CACI International Inc. (CACI)  or KeyPoint Government
Solutions Inc. -- a unit of Veritas Capital, a New York-based
private-equity firm -- might worsen the situation, Tiefer said.  “To throw the work done by USIS onto KeyPoint and CACI
would heavily burden them,” Tiefer said.  Ray Howell, a USIS spokesman, declined to comment on the
company’s expiring contracts. Providence Equity Partners LLC,
which owns Altegrity, declined to comment, said Andrew Cole, a
managing director at corporate strategy firm Sard Verbinnen &
Co., which represents the private-equity firm.  USIS has at least 40 federal contracts for work related to
investigations, 14 of which are scheduled to expire by Oct. 1,
2014, according to federal procurement data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company performs background checks and other
investigative work for the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation, U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the Department of
Agriculture, among other agencies.  Top Customer  The contractor’s biggest agreements by far have been with
the personnel office, which handles about 90 percent of federal
background checks. USIS won $253 million in fiscal 2012 from the
agency, the data shows.  In 2011, the company won a seat, along with CACI and
KeyPoint, on a personnel-office contract for investigative
services with a $2.46 billion ceiling. The award is set to
expire in a year, according to federal records. So far, the
contract has generated about $490 million for USIS, making it
the most valuable of the expiring deals.  While there might be an option to extend the contract for
another year, the agency has “no obligation” to do so, Merton
Miller, OPM’s associate director for federal investigative
services, said in an e-mailed statement.  If the office decides to “explore other options,” it may
solicit new bids from companies, he said.  Future Work  Days before the Navy Yard shooting, the personnel office
announced it was seeking information from contractors who might
be interested in handling some administrative work that has in
the past been performed by USIS. Such requests are often the
first steps to a formal contract proposal.  The agency isn’t accepting offers yet and the value of the
award hasn’t been determined.  The request doesn’t carry any “positive or negative
implications about” the personnel office’s relationship with
USIS, and the agency hasn’t made a decision about future work
with the firm, according to information provided by the agency.  Competitors will try to take advantage of USIS’s bad
publicity, said Brian Friel, a Bloomberg Industries analyst.  Winning contractors, though, often hire the former’s
employees, Friel said. Consequently, the government might end up
with the same workers if it replaces USIS, he said.  “There are not a lot of players in this field,” Friel
said. “The government doesn’t have a lot of options.”  The U.S. attorney in  Washington  has said he is
investigating whether companies hired by the government to
perform background checks falsified information or engaged in
other wrongdoing.  Inspector General  Lindsey O’Keefe, a spokeswoman for the personnel office,
said Sept. 25 that there is an inspector general investigation
related to USIS. She didn’t provide details, and the agency
hasn’t publicly condemned the firm.  Miller, of the personnel office, said the agency “reviewed
the 2007 background investigation file for Aaron Alexis, and the
agency believes that the file was complete and in compliance
with all investigative standards.”  An initial Navy review released Sept. 23 found the service
didn’t know of a 2004 incident in which Alexis shot out the
tires of a car in  Seattle  because a 2007 background report said
he was arrested for “deflating” the tires. The report was
labeled “Property of U.S. Office of Personnel Management.”  Alexis told investigators he thought he didn’t have to
reveal the arrest because the charge was dismissed, the report
said.  Privatized Unit  USIS’s prominence as a background-check contractor is due
to its origin as the Federal Investigations Division of Office
of Personnel Management. The unit, originally known as U.S.
Investigations Services Inc., was privatized in 1996 as part of
then-Vice President  Al Gore ’s effort to “reinvent” government
by reducing the size of the civil service, according to a 2011
report by the  Congressional Research Service .  Contracting out security reviews was designed to save the
government money and offer new work for about 700 investigators
no longer needed because of a declining clearance workload as
the  Cold War  ended. Instead, demand for security clearances
surged after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.  Non-Competitive Contract  USIS was given a non-competitive, three-year contract for
investigative work with the personnel office and granted free
access to federal computer databases that weren’t available to
other firms.  The  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , a Washington-based private-equity
firm, and New York-based Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe LP
invested in USIS. They agreed in 2007 to sell USIS to
Providence, Rhode Island-based Providence Equity for about $1.5
billion.  Since 2006, at least 20 investigators have pleaded guilty
or have been convicted of falsifying background-check reports
for the personnel office, according to the agency’s office of
the inspector general.  Ten of those were contractors. Eight of them worked for
USIS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  