-- Copper Swings Between Gains and Drops on Chinese Manufacturing
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-09-30T10:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/copper-swings-between-gains-and-drops-on-chinese-manufacturing.html
Copper swung between gains and
drops in  London , closing in on the first quarterly gain in a
year, as investors weighed expanding Chinese manufacturing
against a looming government shutdown in the U.S.  A Chinese factory gauge from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed a final September reading of 50.2, lower than
estimated by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Levels above 50
signal growth. The U.S. government is poised for its first
partial shutdown in 17 years at midnight Washington time as
Republicans seek to delay President  Barack Obama ’s health law.  “Although lower than expected, it shows that Chinese
manufacturing is growing in September,” Richard Fu, director
for Asian commodity trading at Newedge Group SA in London, said
by e-mail of the factory measure. “Physical copper demand is
not that bad in  China ,” the biggest consumer of the metal. The
U.S. ranks second.  Copper for delivery in three months was little changed at
$7,297 a metric ton by 11:15 a.m. on the London Metal Exchange
after adding as much as 0.4 percent and sliding as much as 0.6
percent. Prices are up 8.1 percent this quarter, the most in 18
months. Copper for delivery in December fell 0.1 percent to
$3.3255 a pound on the Comex in New York.  Failure by Congress to pass a stopgap spending bill before
funding expires tonight would mean sending 800,000 federal
workers home tomorrow. The Treasury Department has said measures
to avoid breaching the government’s debt ceiling will be
exhausted on Oct. 17.  Today’s inauguration by the Chinese government of a free-trade zone in  Shanghai  helped to fuel a “more upbeat mood,” Fu
said. The experiment is a test ground for free-market policies.  Copper stocks tracked by the LME declined for an 18th
session to 538,025 tons, daily exchange data showed, capping a
19 percent drop for the third quarter after tripling over the
three prior quarters. Orders to remove the metal from warehouses
fell 1.3 percent today to 271,300 tons, rounding out a first
quarterly slump in five.  Aluminum touched a one-month high in London as zinc and
lead rose. Nickel fell and tin was unchanged. Markets in China
will be closed Oct. 1-7 for National Day holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  