-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise as Shutdown Looms; Caesars Risk Jumps
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-09-30T20:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-shutdown-looms-caesars-risk-jumps.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
rose for the fourth day as the U.S. government heads toward its
first partial shutdown in 17 years. The cost to protect the debt
of  Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  climbed.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
0.9 basis point to a mid-price of 82 basis points as of 4:04
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Issuers are deferring sales this week amid uncertainty how
credit markets will react to a government shutdown if Congress
fails to pass a stopgap spending bill before funding for the
 federal budget  expires tonight. Investors are concerned that
riskier assets such as company bonds may suffer in the event of
a closure.  “This government shutdown has been looming, so issuers
have been anticipating that potential problem this week,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond strategy at Susquehanna
International Group LLP, said in a telephone interview. “It
could be this way for a while if a shutdown does occur and
remains in place.”  If Congress doesn’t pass the spending bill by tonight,
800,000 federal workers may be sent home on unpaid furloughs. A
closedown might slow economic growth by as much as 1.4
percentage points, according to economists. A deceleration of
economic activity makes it more difficult for companies to repay
their debt obligations.  Caesars Swaps  The index typically climbs as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Credit risk for Caesars rose after the a property unit of
the casino operator issued $1 billion in seven-year notes and
$1.15 billion in eight-year notes on Sept. 27, according to a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Swaps tied to the debt of Las Vegas-based Caesars climbed
1.3 percentage points to a mid-price of 55.5 percent upfront,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Financial Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That means the cost to protect $10
million of the company’s debt from default rose to $5.55 million
initially in addition to $500,000 annually.  High Yield  The Markit CDX North American High Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade bonds rose 1.8 basis
points to 399.1 basis points, Bloomberg prices show. Series 21
of the index, which began trading Sept. 27, closed at 397.3
basis points, 44.4 basis points higher than Series 20’s close on
Sept. 26.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries widened 2.2 basis points to 134.1
basis points, Bloomberg data show.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by Standard & Poor’s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  