-- Croat Court Asks Police to Issue Warrant for Mol CEO Hernadi
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-09-30T16:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/croat-court-asks-police-to-issue-warrant-for-mol-ceo-hernadi.html
A Zagreb court asked police to
issue an arrest warrant for Mol Nyrt. Chairman  Zsolt Hernadi ,
police spokeswoman Jelena Bikic said.  Authorities are preparing to issue the international
warrant for Hernadi, a suspect in a bribery case linked to
Croatia’s largest refiner INA Industrija Nafte d.d., after a
Zagreb county court ordered his detention on Sept. 27 for
missing a meeting with prosecutors.  “I can’t tell you exactly when the arrest warrant will be
out, but the procedure with Interpol is underway,” Bikic said
by SMS.  The warrant for Hernadi comes as Croatia, the European
Union’s newest member, has sought to re-assert control over INA
since it passed into Mol’s management in a 2009 deal under
former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader that a Croatian court ruled
was corrupt.  Mol owns 49.1 percent of the $7.3 billion company, and
Croatia, which complains Mol runs  INA  as a subsidiary rather
than an independent company, holds 44.84 percent.  Management Dispute  Sanader resigned in July 2009, and was later arrested and
convicted of bribery. He is serving a 10-year prison term and is
appealing the verdict.  The court ruled last week that Hernadi might be a flight
risk after he didn’t appear on Sept. 25 before the Office for
Suppression of Corruption and Organized Crime to be interrogated
in the Sanader case.  Mol General Council Pal Kara on Sept. 27 said he had no
knowledge of any request from Croatian authorities to question
Hernadi. He dismissed the allegations and said the court’s view
that Hernadi may be a flight risk was “unreasonable and
baseless.”  Officials from  Croatia ’s government and Mol began talks
over the management of INA in Zagreb on Sept. 18. They agreed to
meet once a month to discuss cost control, investment and profit
sharing, and other issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  