-- Croatia to Borrow More Than Expected on U.S. Market, Linic Says
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-09-30T13:38:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/croatia-to-borrow-more-than-expected-on-u-s-market-linic-says.html
Junk-rated Croatia will borrow more
than $1.5 billion on the U.S. market at yields that may top 6.5
percent to finance its budget without help from the
International Monetary Fund, Finance Minister Slavko Linic said.  Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic ’s government is facing lower
than expected growth this year and a widening fiscal deficit in
2014. It unveiled sweeping plans last week to cut costs, raise
taxes, and tap European Union funds even as Croatia’s borrowing
costs rise toward levels that caused some euro-area countries to
consider seeking international bailouts.  Hobbled by four years of contraction or stagnation, Croatia
is weighed down by rising interest payments, state company debts
and higher salaries and pension payouts. It will start a
roadshow in the U.S. in November to find buyers for a bond that
Linic said would be “much bigger than $1.5 billion.”  “We would be happy with a 6 to 6.5 percent yield,” Linic
told  Croatia  radio today. “It depends on the market, but it
could also be higher.”  The cost to insure debt against non-payment for five years
with credit-default swaps rose to a three-week high of 341 at
2:52 p.m. in Zagreb, from its last close of 330. The yield on
Croatia’s dollar bond maturing in 2023 rose to 6.030 percent,
from the previous close at 5.987. Croatia last tapped
international markets in March, selling $1.5 billion of 10-year
bonds at 5.625 percent.  Limited Time  The government said last week it would see few benefits
from EU entry in July of this year and cut its 2013 growth
forecast to 0.2 percent from 0.7 percent. That compares with a
May European Commission estimate of 1 percent growth.  Milanovic’s cabinet expects lower growth to help push the
 budget deficit  wider to 5.5 percent of gross domestic product
next year, from 3.5 percent this year. With 2 billion euros
($2.7 billion) in debt maturing by next April, Zagreb may have
limited time to prove to investors that it is buckling down on
its public finances, said Abbas Ameli-Renani, an emerging market
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  “A U.S. dollar bond issue of greater than $1.5 billion
will certainly add supply pressure to the sovereign’s
international debt,” Ameli-Renani said by e-mail. “A sizable
debt issue would make sense, however, in the context that
financing conditions could be materially worse next year.”  Fitch Ratings  cut Croatia to below investment grade on
Sept. 20, following earlier moves by  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service.  IMF Unnecessary  Linic said Croatia will need to issue another bond on the
domestic market in the near future, without giving details.  The cabinet will try to reduce the size of next year’s
fiscal shortfall by the time the 2014 budget draft is ready and
all its efforts are focused on reviving growth, creating jobs
and maximizing EU entry benefits, he said.  He added that Croatia was not, at this point, considering
asking for international aid.  “A frequent question here is, should we turn to the
 International Monetary Fund  for help,” Linic said. “When the
world says this is enough, we don’t believe you are able to
service your obligations any more, then we will turn to the IMF,
but that moment hasn’t arrived yet.”  Croatia has a chance to stabilize the situation and push
down its borrowing costs, said Hrvoje Stojic, chief analyst at
the Croatian unit of Hypo-Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG.  “Should Croatia reshape its budget plans, which is
expected in November, this will probably increase its
credibility, and in turn would push down the yield on Croatian
debt,” Stojic said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  