-- Cuomo Hurdles Voters in $1 Billion Sale: Muni Credit
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-09-30T17:37:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/cuomo-hurdles-voters-to-seek-aaa-in-1-billion-sale-muni-credit.html
(Corrects to show sales-tax bonds count against the debt
cap in sixth paragraph. For more credit-market news, click on
TOP CM. For Municipal Credit Markets column alerts, see SALT
MUNCREDIT.)  Governor  Andrew Cuomo  plans to sell
$1 billion in bonds backed by sales taxes for the first time in
18 years as New York debt outpaces the $3.7 trillion municipal
 bond market  by the most in two months.  The securities will be issued next month under a program
included in the budget that lawmakers approved in March as New
York’s sales-tax revenue set a record high. It’s designed to win
the same top rating as New York debt backed by personal income
taxes and save money as the state consolidates borrowing for
road and bridge construction, said Morris Peters, a spokesman
for Cuomo’s budget division.  The bonds, which won’t require voter approval, will provide
a new credit in a market hungering for  New York  borrowings, said
Howard Cure, director of muni research at Evercore Wealth
Management LLC, which oversees about $4.7 billion. Issuers in
the state have sold 34 percent less debt in 2013 than at the
same time last year, on pace for the steepest slowdown in at
least a decade, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “With  New York state , anytime there’s a new structure for
debt, it’s an opportunity to diversify your portfolio, and it
should be very well received,” said Cure, who’s based in
 Manhattan . “It’s another example of New York being creative in
devising mechanisms to circumvent voter approval,” which is
needed for general-obligation debt.  Confidence Climb  Cuomo, a 55-year-old Democrat, has instilled confidence in
investors, winning three consecutive on-time budgets for the
first time since 1984 and trimming more than $13 billion in
deficits. The victories have New York poised for its highest
credit rating from  Standard & Poor’s  since 1972.  Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , a fellow Democrat, doesn’t
support Cuomo’s plan. He said it will build on New York’s
decades-old practice of borrowing without voter approval, he
wrote in an April report on the fiscal 2014 budget. Only about 5
percent of the state’s outstanding debt has been authorized by
referendum, DiNapoli said. The tax bonds count against the debt
cap, he said.  “The new debt structure provides an additional vehicle
that will allow the state to avoid seeking voter-approval for
billions of dollars in new borrowing in the years ahead,”
DiNapoli said in the report.  Debt Load  The program won’t increase the amount of debt New York
issues and it won’t go toward closing budget gaps, as some
programs in the past have, Peters said. Even though voters won’t
have their say, the borrowing still must be approved by the
legislature, the Public Authorities Control Board and the
governing board of the agency that’s issuing the bonds, he said.  As issuance has slowed this year, New York’s debt has been
beating the rest of the market. Investors demand about 18 basis
points, or 0.18 percentage point, of  extra yield  to own New York
bonds instead of benchmark offerings, close to the smallest
spread since July, Bloomberg data show.  The $1 billion issue, scheduled to start Oct. 16, is part
of a plan to save as New York consolidates borrowing for road
and bridge construction into three programs -- personal income
tax, general obligation and sales tax, Peters said. S&P rates
the PIT debt AAA and the general obligations AA, third-highest.
The sales-tax bonds haven’t been rated.  “New York PIT bonds have yields that are at least 20 basis
points better than some of our older programs,” Peters said by
e-mail. “We expect our new sales-tax bonds to perform just as
well.”  1995 Precedent  It would be the state’s first issue of sales-tax-backed
debt since the New York Local Government Assistance Corp. in
1995, according to Peters. Ten-year debt the agency sold in
March that year priced to yield 5.45 percent, compared with
about  5.3 percent  for benchmark debt, Bloomberg data show.  This month, a state agency sold PIT securities, including
10-year bonds priced to yield 3.06 percent, or about 0.1
percentage point above benchmark debt.  Some institutional investors are approaching their capacity
for the income-tax debt, JPMorgan Securities LLC wrote in
response to a proposal request by the Thruway Authority, which
issues personal income tax-backed debt.  “All mutual funds, the largest holders of PIT bonds, have
a single credit capacity constraint,” JPMorgan wrote in its
September 2012 request to become an underwriter for the Thruway.
“To improve the pricing of PIT bonds and market receptivity of
New York state bonds, the state could diversify its offering.”  PIT Reference  The sales-tax bonds will be structured similarly to the PIT
debt, according to New York’s capital-spending plan. One percent
of state sales-tax revenue will be set aside each year to pay
them off and if collections aren’t enough, the fund will
automatically pull from savings, it said.  Last fiscal year, New York collected $11.2 billion in sales
taxes, beating the $10.6 billion collected in fiscal 2008 as the
U.S. plunged into the worst recession since the Great
Depression, according to Peters.  Fred Yosca, head of fixed-income trading at BNY Mellon
Capital Markets LLC in New York, said the sales-tax bonds will
help portfolio managers diversify and will probably get the
 credit rating  the state wants.  “But at the end of the day, it’s state debt and there’s no
getting around that,” Yosca said.  Market Week  Localities nationwide plan to issue about $3.6 billion of
long-term debt this week as yields are the lowest in three
months. At  2.69 percent , benchmark 10-year yields compare with
2.62 percent on Treasuries with a similar maturity.  The ratio of the  interest rates , a measure of relative
value, is about 103 percent, compared with a 10-year average of
about 95 percent. The lower the figure, the more expensive munis
are compared with federal securities.  Following are pending sales:  Washington ’s Tobacco Settlement Authority is set to issue
about $344 million of revenue bonds this week, Bloomberg data
show.  Connecticut  plans to sell $575 million in general-obligation debt to finance a general-fund deficit that arose as
the state changed procedures to conform with generally accepted
accounting principles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  