-- TCW Buys Craton Equity to Expand Alternatives Unit
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-09-30T15:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/tcw-buys-craton-equity-to-expand-alternatives-unit.html
TCW Group Inc., the $128 billion
asset manager bought by  Carlyle Group  LP in February, is
expanding its alternative offerings under new head Jess Ravich
with the purchase of Craton Equity Partners. Terms of the
transaction weren’t disclosed.  TCW acquired  Beverly Hills , California-based Craton Equity
Partners, a private-equity firm with $242 million in assets that
specializes in socially responsible investing, the firm said
today in a statement. In December, Los Angeles-based TCW agreed
to acquire direct-lending debt funds with about $2 billion in
assets from Regiment Capital Advisors LP and partnered with
Scoggin Capital Management to oversee distressed and event-driven hedge funds.  TCW, which has two-thirds of its assets in U.S. fixed
income, is seeking to diversify its holdings amid speculation
that the 30-year bond bull market is coming to an end and
investors prepare for an increase in  interest rates . TCW is
rebuilding its alternative assets under Carlyle Group after two
units specializing in non-traditional investments split off from
the firm in 2011, when it was owned by French bank  Societe
Generale SA. (GLE)   “Bonds have been the flavor of the month for over a decade
and now with interest rates poised to go higher, one has to ask
are fixed-income funds going to be in as much of a demand as
they were,” TCW Chief Executive Officer David Lippman, 54, said
in a telephone interview.  Gundlach’s Dismissal  TCW was started in 1971 by  Robert Day , the grandson of
Superior Oil Co. founder William Keck, as Trust Company of the
West. The firm has been through leadership changes and executive
departures since December 2009, when it fired star manager
 Jeffrey Gundlach , a move that prompted the exodus of more than
40 professionals, who eventually joined Gundlach’s new firm.
Lippman was previously CEO of Metropolitan West Asset
Management, which was acquired by TCW at the time of Gundlach’s
dismissal.  Crescent Capital Group LP, the leveraged-finance group co-run by  Mark Attanasio , separated from TCW more than two years
ago, as did Blair Thomas’s energy private-equity firm EIG Global
Energy Partners LLC. Ravich joined TCW at the end of last year
from investment bank Houlihan Lokey, where he was head of
 capital markets .  Investor Redemptions  TCW has 66 percent of its assets in U.S. fixed income, 17
percent in U.S. equities, 10 percent in international and global
strategies and 7 percent in alternative investments as of June
30.  Bill Gross ’s Pacific Investment Management Co., which has
more than 90 percent of its $1.97 trillion in assets in bond-related strategies, has been adding alternative funds, exchange-traded funds and equity products for at least the last five
years.  Investors have been pulling money out of traditional bond
funds as yields have shrunk. TCW’s flagship fund, the $24.7
billion  Metropolitan West Total Return Bond Fund (MWTIX) , had $519
million in net redemptions in the three months ended Aug. 31,
based on estimates from  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  The fund returned 5.5
percent over the past three years, putting it ahead of 93
percent of peers, and lost 0.2 percent this year, beating 88
percent of rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Our clients want to have more money with fewer managers
and a supermarket of alternatives to invest in,” Ravich, 56,
said in a telephone interview. “We would become potentially not
as relevant with our client base if we didn’t have them.”  Craton’s Strategy  Craton invests in growing companies whose products and
services help improve the environment, such as those involved in
water treatment, reducing  carbon emissions  and increasing energy
efficiency. It typically invests in firms that have low  capital
requirements  and operate independent of tax credits and
government subsidies. Bob MacDonald and Tom Soto, Craton’s
managing partners, will become managing directors at TCW/Craton
and managing partner Kevin Wall will become a senior adviser,
according to TCW’s statement.  Ravich said he’d ideally like to add about five new
strategies a year. Health-care funds and direct lending in
Europe are potential areas TCW may look to expand in, Ravich
said. The firm had about $8.5 billion in alternative assets as
of June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  