-- Czech Mobile Tender Lures Incumbents and Two Newcomers
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-09-30T12:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/czech-mobile-tender-lures-incumbents-and-two-newcomers.html
Three existing Czech mobile phone
providers and two prospective newcomers filed applications in a
8.72 billion-koruna ($457 million) mobile-frequency auction
aimed at boosting services and competition.  Czech Telecommunication Office, or CTU, said Telefonica
Czech AS, T-Mobile Czech AS and Vodafone Czech Republic AS filed
applications by today’s deadline. Revolution Mobile AS, a former
unit of Czech financial group PPF, and Tasciane AS also
registered for the sale, CTU said in a an e-mailed statement.  “The auction has a potential to significantly change the
mobile service telecommunication market,” CTU head Jaromir
Novak said in the statement.  The auction was called to boost 4G high-speed data for
mobile users and increase speeds through LTE, or Long Term
Evolution networks, which allow customers to shop online and
stream videos faster. The tender conditions also set aside a
spectrum block for a new entrant to help boost competitiveness.  An earlier auction failed in March when CTU judged that
bids exceeding 20 billion koruna may trigger an unwanted jump in
prices. Weeks after the failure, the existing operators cut
tariffs that, according to Finnish consultancy Rewheel, had been
the second highest in the European Union.  PPF Switch  PPF Group NV, the Czech financial company controlled by
billionaire  Petr Kellner , said it wouldn’t take part because the
tender banned any new entrant from merging with another
participant for 15 years, PPF spokesman Radek Stavel said in an
e-mailed statement.  “Because the telecommunications market will change
dramatically as a result of revolutionary shifts in technology,
this type of 15-year obligation is not practically or
economically sensible,” Stavel said.  Instead, the company sold its unit PPF Mobile Services AS
to its chief executive officer, Tomas Budnik. The subsidiary
then changed its name to Revolution Mobile and applied,
Revolution Mobile said in a statement.  The Czech units of  Telefonica SA (TEF)  and Vodafone Plc said they
took legal action against certain conditions. Telefonica alleged
that guaranteeing a new entrant a spectrum amounts to
“unauthorized state aid.”  Shares in Telefonica jumped 8 koruna, or 2.7 percent, to
300 koruna as of 11:11 a.m. in Prague trading.  Faster Data  CTU will open the applications tomorrow. The sale comes
just as the country’s existing operators are deciding about how
regulatory pressures and lower customer spending will affect
their future plans in the country.  Telefonica is considering selling its Czech subsidiary,
among other assets, Bloomberg reported on April 8.  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  plans to review a future of the T-Mobile Czech stake
in coming weeks, the Wall Street Journal reported on Aug. 29.  PPF said on April 10 that it’s not at that moment in talks
about purchasing a stake in Telefonica, CTK reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  