-- Czech Financial Group PPF Won’t Participate in Spectrum Auction
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2013-09-30T09:54:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/czech-financial-group-ppf-won-t-participate-in-spectrum-auction.html
PPF Group NV, the Czech financial
group controlled by billionaire  Petr Kellner , said it won’t take
part in an auction aimed at opening the country’s mobile phone
market as its conditions preclude it from merging rivals.  The mobile frequency auction, aimed at boosting the
availability of 4G high-speed data for mobile users, is a re-run
of a process that failed in March when the telecommunications
regulator CTU judged that bids exceeding 20 billion koruna
($1.05 billion) may trigger an unwanted jump in prices. The new
tender bans any new player from merging with another participant
for 15 years, PPF spokesman Radek Stavel said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Because the telecommunications market will change
dramatically as a result of revolutionary shifts in technology,
this type of 15-year obligation is not practically or
economically sensible,” Stavel said.  The Czech Telecommunication Office has said it wants to
earn at least 8.72 billion koruna from the sale. It also wants
to attract a new player to improve services and boost
competition in a market dominated by existing operators
Telefonica Czech Republic AS, T-Mobile Czech Republic and
Vodafone Czech Republic AS.  Telefonica Czech and T-Mobile Czech AS said last week they
had registered for the auction. Telefonica also filed a lawsuit
alleging that certain auction rules, including setting aside
spectrum for a new entrant, is “unauthorized state aid.”  Shares in Telefonica jumped 8 koruna, or 2.7%, to 300
koruna as of 11:11 am in Prague trading.  Faster Data  Weeks after the sale’s failure, the country’s existing
operators cut tariffs that, according to Finnish consultancy
Rewheel, had been the second highest in the European Union. The
new auction should increase speeds through LTE, or Long Term
Evolution, networks that allow customers to shop online and
stream videos faster.  PPF also said it sold its unit PPF Mobile Services AS to
its chief executive officer, Tomas Budnik. It took part in the
previous sale and said in April it was ready to participate
again if the regulator kept in place proposed rules, including
setting aside spectrum for a new entrant and obliging existing
operators to provide roaming. The ban to merge with any
competitors in the sale wasn’t in the draft rules made available
for public discussion before the sale.  CTU will announce the number of registered companies today,
after the deadline for applicants ends. CTU spokesman Martin
Drtina declined to comment before the announcement. Vodafone
Czech AS, wouldn’t comment on whether it applied before the
deadline.  Tender Deadline  The sale comes just as the country’s existing operators are
deciding about how regulatory pressures and lower customer
spending will affect their future plans in the country.  Spain’s Telefonica is considering selling its Czech
subsidiary, among other of its assets, Bloomberg reported on
April 8.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  plans to review a future of the T-Mobile Czech stake in coming weeks, the Wall Street Journal
reported on Aug. 29.  PPF said on April 10 that it’s not at that moment in talks
about purchasing a stake in Telefonica, CTK reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in Prague at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  