-- Deer-Auto Crashes Drop in U.S. as Disease Cuts Population
-- B y   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-09-30T14:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/deer-auto-crashes-drop-in-u-s-as-disease-cuts-population.html
Collisions tied to deer in the U.S.
fell 3.5 percent as disease cut the population of the animals.  Deer-related vehicle crashes totaled 1.22 million in the 12
months ended June 30, according to a statement today from State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the biggest U.S. car and
home insurer.  There were “fewer deer to hit this year,” Kip Adams, a
director at the Quality Deer Management Association, a group
that promotes sustainable hunting, said in an interview before
the report was released. The population had been cut by car
accidents in prior seasons “plus a lot of deer dying of
disease,” Adams said.  Crashes are most common in October and November, which are
in the mating season for deer, the Bloomington, Illinois-based
insurer said. Collisions cost an average of $3,414 in property
damage nationwide, a 3.3 percent increase from a year earlier.  “We’ve seen up to $6,000,” said Dave Huskey, who manages
Minor Wreck Express, an auto repair business in  Iowa . He said
engineering advances have helped protect people inside the cars,
though vehicles are still vulnerable to damage, often involving
bumpers, side panels and windshields.  “The cars look worse because they’re absorbing the impact
rather than passing it on to the passengers,” Huskey said in a
telephone interview. “It takes a lot of damage to get inside
the frame.”  Reports of Epizootic Hemorrhagic Disease spiked in 2012 for
deer from  Louisiana  to  Montana . The virus spreads through biting
flies, or midges, and causes fever and internal bleeding.  Michigan Deaths  “With the tendency toward warmer, shorter winters, the
midge is reaching higher levels,” said Brent Rudolph, a
wildlife research specialist with  Michigan ’s Department of
Natural Resources. The heat “creates conditions that are really
good for the midges.”  Rudolph said there were about 15,000 deaths reported from
the disease in Michigan in the summer. That compares with “a
few thousand” in prior years, he said.  West Virginia  led the country for the seventh straight year
as the state where motorists are  most likely  to hit a deer,
according to the report. One in 41 drivers there will probably
strike a deer in the next 12 months, the insurer said. Montana
drivers are next most likely to crash, followed by vehicle
operators in Iowa,  South Dakota  and  Pennsylvania .  Hawaii has the lowest chance of collisions, with odds of
about 1-in-6,787. New York drivers are the 24th most likely to
have deer-related mishaps among the 50 states, with a 1-in-157
chance. California, Florida and  Texas  were all classified by the
insurer as low-risk states.  Ridges, Streams  “What we have are roads at the bottom of hills and ridge
tops, and roads near streams and valleys,” said  James Anderson ,
director of West Virginia University’s Environmental Research
Center. “In other places there are more defined crossing areas,
and here deer will cross just about anywhere.”  West Virginia, known as the Mountain State, is heavily
forested and has winding roads that decrease visibility for
drivers and animals.  Deer are most active between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. and often
travel in groups, meaning that if one is visible, drivers should
be on guard for more nearby, State Farm said. If a collision
seems inevitable, State Farm advises drivers to avoid swerving,
which can cause loss of vehicle contro1 and put other motorists
at risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marci Jacobs in  New York  at 
 mjacobs63@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  