-- Deutsche Wohnen Shareholders Approve New-Share Plan for GSW Deal
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-09-30T12:47:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/deutsche-wohnen-shareholders-approve-new-share-plan-for-gsw-deal.html
Shareholders of  Deutsche Wohnen AG (DWNI) ,
 Germany ’s third-largest property company, approved a plan to
issue shares to finance the planned 1.75 billion-euro ($2.4
billion) acquisition of  GSW Immobilien AG. (GIB)   At a meeting in  Frankfurt  today, 99.5 percent of the
Deutsche Wohnen investors present voted in favor of creating
shares to be offered in exchange for GSW stock, the company said
in a statement today.  “It is now the turn of GSW’s shareholders,” Deutsche
Wohnen Chief Executive Officer Michael Zahn said in the release.  Deutsche Wohnen on Aug. 20 announced a plan to buy its
competitor in an all-share transaction that would create
Germany’s largest property company by market value. Both
companies are based in Berlin, where price and rent increases
have outpaced the rest of the country.  The vote allows Deutsche Wohnen to invite GSW shareholders
to exchange their shares, a process what will probably begin
this week and last one month, Deutsche Wohnen spokeswoman
Manuela Damianakis said on Friday. The takeover can take place
if 75 percent of GSW shareholders participate in the exchange,
she said.  Deutsche Wohnen will offer 51 new shares for every 20 GSW
shares, according to the Aug. 20 statement.  Deutsche Wohnen owns about 90,000 apartments in large
German cities including Berlin and Frankfurt, and GSW owns
60,000 homes in the capital. The combined company would own
apartments valued at 8.5 billion euros.  Deutsche Annington Immobilien SE (ANN)  is Germany’s biggest
residential landlord by number of homes, with 180,000
apartments.  GSW said in a statement on Aug. 26 that “a combination of
GSW and Deutsche Wohnen could make sense from an operational and
industry point of view.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  