-- Don’t Expect a Shutdown to Change Much
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-09-30T21:31:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/don-t-expect-a-shutdown-to-change-much.html
With a government shutdown upon us,
it’s worth pondering this drama’s endgame. Does anyone seriously
think Democrats in the Senate or the White House will abandon
the president’s signature legislative accomplishment in order to
appease a few dozen congressional Republicans with an appetite
for hyperbole? Hands? Anyone? Didn’t think so.  So, after some to-be-determined period of political
squirming, Democrats and Republicans will reach a deal to fund
the government at more or less current levels for either a
shorter or a longer duration. The result will be a continuation
of the current government by sequestration, itself a product of
extreme dysfunction.  The prevailing view in Washington seems to be that
sequestration isn’t a bad outcome. The across-the-board budget
cuts haven’t brought the  U.S. economy  to a standstill, so what’s
to complain about? It’s true that some of the  most dire
predictions  about sequestration’s effects haven’t come to pass.
The economy has continued to grow despite the fiscal drag. Like
the impact of a government shutdown, however, the effects of
sequestration are not felt uniformly.  National Institutes of Health Director  Francis Collins  has
 decried  the “unimaginable” wastefulness of indiscriminate cuts
to hundreds of medical research projects. By cutting off
projects well under way, sequestration achieves the dubious
trifecta of devaluing past, present and future federal
investment.  The Financial Times  examines  the case of Fort Campbell,
which straddles the Kentucky-Tennessee border. Due to
sequestration, more than 3,000 employees, including military
spouses, have endured temporary furloughs. The army hospital has
limited nonemergency surgery. The commissary is closed one day a
week. The economic impact that barely registers in many
communities doesn’t go unnoticed in Fort Campbell. In Christian
County, on the Kentucky side, the FT  estimates that 
sequestration had a per capita impact of $3,900 -- equal to more
than 10 percent of median  household income .  Even if it were possible to wave a magic wand (or gavel, as
the case may be) and pass a budget this week -- and then use it
again to raise the debt limit in a few weeks -- the
senselessness of sequestration would continue. And there is no
indication -- wishful thinking aside -- that the obstructionist
impulses of the Tea Party faction in Congress are close to being
tapped out. Figuring out how to work around those roadblocks is
House Speaker  John Boehner ’s primary task.  Yet it’s hard to believe that there are not solid
majorities in both houses of Congress for replacing the ad-hockery of sequestration with a spending blueprint that values
some kinds of government funding (military families, vital
health research) over others (subsidies for wealthy farmers, a
 fleet  of Ford-class supercarriers).  The harsh costs, in efficiency and effectiveness, to
Congress’s budgetary incompetence  are clear . Congress could take
some of the sting out of this self-induced crisis by
recommitting itself to regular order and regular means of
funding government operations.  To achieve that, adamancy and preening will have to cede to
compromise and conversation. No one should expect a budget
shutdown to be quite so cathartic that it makes  Washington  --
God forbid -- functional. But it would be nice if it incited a
modicum of common sense and decency.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 