-- Ecobank CEO Denies Misconduct Amid Corporate Governance Review
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2013-09-30T07:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/ecobank-ceo-denies-misconduct-amid-corporate-governance-review.html
Ecobank Transnational Inc. (ETI) ’s Chief
Executive Officer Thierry Tanoh denied allegations of fraud by a
senior manager.  “The bank’s governance norms are such today that what has
been said couldn’t have been done,” Tanoh said in an interview
last week in Paris. “We are doing a review because it’s time
also for us to look at our governance and keep improving it.”  Nigeria’s Securities and Exchange Commission is
investigating Ecobank’s governance after executive director of
risk and finance, Laurence do Rego, told the regulator last
month that Tanoh and Chairman Kolapo Lawson planned to sell some
assets below market value. Do Rego has also said she had been
pressured to write off debts owed by a business headed by Lawson
and manipulate the bank’s results in 2012.  Ecobank said earlier in September that Tanoh will forgo a
$1.14 million bonus for 2012 as the Lome, Togo-based lender
appointed external advisers to review its corporate governance.
Ecobank has made no dismissals “for now,” he said.  Lawson, Ecobank’s chairman since 2009, is also chairman of
Acorn Petroleum Plc and Agbara Estates Ltd., according to
Ecobank’s 2012 annual report. Lawson has been an Ecobank’s non-executive director since 1993, according to the annual report,
and also chief executive officer of a diversified industrial and
trading group with operations in the U.K. and West Africa.  Tanoh joined Ecobank in July, 2012 as “designate CEO” to
work with former CEO Arnold Epke for the rest of the year and
“ensure a smooth and succesful transition,” Ecobank said in
its annual report. Tanoh took over after Epke started his
retirement last year.  “I whole-heartedly endorse Mr Tanoh’s commitment to a more
open dialogue with shareholders,” Lawson said in the chairman’s
statement in the annual report.  Founded in 1985, Ecobank operates in  France  and 34 African
countries, more than any other lender. It also has
representative offices in Beijing, Dubai, Johannesburg,  London 
and Luanda,  Angola . The bank had $21 billion in assets at the
end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 