-- Mega Deals Mask Stagnant Mid-Sized M&A Market That Pays More
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2013-10-01T13:26:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/mega-deals-mask-stagnant-mid-sized-market-that-pays-bankers-more.html
Big deals are back. M&A is not.  Large acquisitions, led by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s
$130 billion purchase of its wireless business from Vodafone
Group Plc, pushed mergers up 42 percent in the third quarter to
$671 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That belies
stagnation in takeovers below $5 billion -- the heart of
dealmaking -- where volumes fell about 2 percent. Those smaller
deals matter to bankers who count on them for close to 90
percent of advisory fees, according to Freeman & Co.  The big deals, fueled by cheap debt, are concentrated in
industries including telecommunications and technology, where
companies grappling with disruptive innovations or saturated
markets are prepared to pay high prices to secure growth.
Smaller companies, meanwhile, are holding off on deals because
of lingering concerns about the economic recovery as a surge in
stock prices makes targets expensive.  “The softness in M&A is evident in the $1 billion to $5
billion range,” said Cary Kochman, head of North American M&A
for  Citigroup Inc. (C)  “A number of large deals in 2013 could have
been done five years ago or five years from now.”  While the large deals grabbed headlines, there were only 15
of them in the quarter, compared with about 6,500 valued at less
than $5 billion. The bigger acquisitions account for just 14
percent of the $7 billion in fees that will be paid to
investment banks for deals announced during the quarter,
according to estimates by  Freeman , a New York-based researcher.  During the buyout boom that preceded the 2008 recession,
the largest deals generated 18 percent of the fee pool at most.
The disparity occurs because banks typically charge a greater
percentage of the value of smaller transactions.  Asian Slump  Buyers from  North America  were the most active among larger
acquirers, accounting for 10 of the 15 big deals announced. In
 Asia , meanwhile, buyers both large and small were sidelined by
falling currencies and stock markets. Only one large deal was
announced, and the value of purchases by Asia-based buyers fell
to $121 billion in the quarter, from $145 billion a year ago.  The largest deals last quarter were struck by companies in
the technology, telecom and drug sectors -- industries facing
rapid changes that drive them to pay high prices to gain size,
new technology or market reach.  “Those are three sectors that are consolidating and the
values tend to be large,” said Michael Carr, head of Americas
M&A for Goldman Sachs Group Inc., in a telephone interview.  Publicis, Omnicom  In July, Publicis Groupe SA and Omnicom Group Inc. agreed
to merge into a $35 billion advertising company that will be the
world’s largest, while in September, Microsoft Corp. spent $7.2
billion to acquire Nokia Oyj’s flagging handset business. In
August, biotech giant Amgen Inc. agreed to acquire Onyx
Pharmaceuticals Inc. for $10.4 billion in a play to get Onyx’s
bone marrow cancer drug Kyprolis.  Dealmaking in telecom and technology will continue, said
Gavin Deane, the co-head of global technology, media, and
telecom at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in  London . Vodafone is freshly armed
with cash it could use on acquisitions, and  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) ,
the world’s largest maker of personal computers, said in
September that it’s looking for acquisition targets.  Also in September, Time Warner Cable Inc. Chief Financial
Officer Artie Minson said the second-largest U.S. cable operator
would consider taking on more debt if it came across an
attractive enough merger or acquisition.  Cheap Debt  In telecom in particular, “businesses tend to benefit from
scale, and quite materially so, because the infrastructure is
inherently large and the footprint wide or the offerings aren’t
desirable to consumers,” said Deutsche Bank’s Deane.  Cheap financing, resulting from the U.S. Federal Reserve
keeping  interest rates  at about zero, can substantially lower
the cost of a large takeover and is also pushing the big deals
forward, said Citigroup’s Kochman.  “Interest rates and the depth of liquidity are
facilitating deals of that size,” he said.  At the same time, stock market gains have pushed the
valuations of targets higher, creating a “seller’s market”
that is limiting opportunities for smaller buyers, he said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has rallied 18 percent this
year, poised for the biggest annual gain since 2009. The U.S.
equity benchmark’s  price-earnings  ratio has increased to more
than 16 from 14 in January. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index has
gained 11 percent.  The rising stock prices also mean there’s no penalty to
small buyers to stay on the sidelines, said Chris Ventresca,
global co-head of M&A at JPMorgan Chase and Co.  “You had a free pass because the stock has gone higher
without any meaningful revenue growth,” he said.  Economic Recovery  The big deals could continue, as activist investors who
have had success spurring sales by smaller companies have set
their sights on larger targets, said Citigroup’s Kochman.
Activists now have positions in large companies including
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  and Pepsico Inc.  Looking ahead, economic recovery in Asia and Europe should
spur more deal activity next year, said  Paul Parker , head of
global finance for  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  Chinese retail sales and
industrial output accelerated in August amid government stimulus
measures while the Euro zone exited an 18-month recession.  “We are beginning to see improvement in deal activity in
the U.S. and in Europe,” Parker said in a phone interview. “In
the second and third quarters of next year, you’ll see Asia kick
in and the U.S. and Europe continue to improve.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in  New York  at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  