-- Australian Yacht Club Accepted as America’s Cup Challenger
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-01T04:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/ellison-accepts-australian-challenge-for-next-america-s-cup.html
Australia ’s Hamilton Island Yacht
Club, led by millionaire winemaker Bob Oatley, was accepted as
the official challenger to defending champion Oracle Team USA at
the next America’s Cup.  Oatley and his son Sandy filed the challenge shortly after
 Larry Ellison ’s Oracle Team USA beat Emirates Team New Zealand
in the deciding race of the 34th America’s Cup on Sept. 26, the
San Francisco-based Golden Gate Yacht Club said in announcing
its acceptance in a statement.  As the challenger of record, the Oatleys will help shape
the rules for the next edition along with the defending Golden
Gate Yacht Club. The two clubs said they expect to agree on a
protocol governing the event, including dates, venue and
vessels, in the first few months of 2014.  “The dates, type of boat, format and rules are subject to
negotiation between the challenger of record and defender
following consultation with prospective challengers, venues,
sponsors and other stakeholders,” GGYC Vice Commodore Tom Ehman
said in a  statement . “Both clubs are keen to have multiple
challengers, as has been the norm since 1970, and to cut
campaign costs for all teams.”  Team New Zealand spent $100 million, funded by taxpayers
and corporate sponsors, on its 2013 campaign. Ellison, the chief
executive officer of Oracle Corp. and the eighth-richest man in
the world according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, spent
more than a decade and hundreds of millions of dollars to win
the trophy off  Valencia , Spain, in 2010 and Oracle ran another
$100 million campaign this cycle. The cost limited the number of
challengers in this year’s series to three.  No Ballpark Figure  Bob Oatley, the 27th richest Australian with a fortune of
about $950 million according to Forbes, said it was too soon to
be able to estimate the costs of competing in the next edition.  “I haven’t got a ballpark figure yet,” Sandy Oatley said
today at a news conference alongside his father in Sydney. “Not
until we know what the race is going to look like, what the
boat’s going to look like. We don’t know.”  Last month’s regatta on San Francisco Bay featured elite
sailors racing the world’s fastest boats -- $8 million, 72-foot
(22-meter) catamarans with 12-story vertical wings, capable of
soaring above the waves on hydrofoils at speeds exceeding 45
miles an hour (72 kph).  Altered Image  “Racing in San Francisco altered the world’s opinion of
these boats,” Bob Oatley said. “Prior to that, a lot of people
thought they were a flop. It changed completely last week, which
has made a big difference to everyone’s thinking.”  Oracle’s 9-8 series victory over Team New Zealand came
after it trailed 8-1. The team skippered by Australian Jimmy
Spithill and featuring his 2012 Olympic gold-medal winning
countryman Tom Slingsby put together eight straight wins for the
biggest comeback in the 162-year-old event.  The previous biggest fightback was in 1983, when Alan Bond’s Australia II overcame a 3-1 deficit to win a best-of-seven series against Dennis Conner’s Liberty and end the  New
York  Yacht Club’s 132-year hold on the trophy, the longest
winning streak in sports.  Oatley’s succession of yachts named Wild Oats have won six
of the past eight Sydney to Hobart races, while he led an
Australian team to victory in the last edition of the Admiral’s
Cup in 2003.  Australia hasn’t competed in the America’s Cup regatta
since losing to the U.S. in 1987 when defending its 1983 title.
Australian boats contested the Louis Vuitton Cup challenger
series in 1992, 1995 and 2000.  While Hamilton Island Yacht Club, based on the Greet
Barrier Reef, will negotiate the rules of the next regatta, the
Australian entry will still have to beat other challengers
before it can contest the America’s Cup.  “The more the merrier,” Bob Oatley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  