-- Emerging Stocks Trim Best Quarter in 2013 as Vale Tumbles
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-09-30T22:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/emerging-stocks-pare-best-quarterly-gain-in-year-on-u-s-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, paring
the biggest quarterly gain this year, as Vale SA led commodity
shares lower before a potential U.S. government shutdown.
 Indonesia ’s rupiah had the largest three-month drop since 2008.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index decreased 1.2 percent to
987.46, trimming its rally for the quarter to 5 percent.
 Brazil ’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  posted the longest losing streak since March
as mining company Vale slumped, while OAO RusHydro paced losses
in  Russia . Benchmark equity gauges from  Philippines  to Indonesia
and Thailand retreated at least 2.4 percent. The rupiah led
losses in emerging markets this quarter.  Commodity shares in the measure for developing nations
declined as the S&P GSCI gauge of 24 raw materials slid to a
seven-week low after a Chinese manufacturing index rose less
than analysts forecast. Both parties in  U.S. Congress  dug in
deeper hours before a midnight deadline to keep the government
open, lobbing dead-end proposals and insults across the Capitol
as the first partial shutdown in 17 years looked inevitable.  “What happens in the U.S. affects global markets,”  Alan Gayle , senior strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management, said
by phone from Atlanta. His firm oversees about $48 billion. “If
there’s some concern about economic momentum entering the fourth
quarter, that’s probably going to weigh on emerging markets.”  Today’s drop pared a monthly gain in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index to 6.2 percent. The gauge traded at 10.4 times
projected earnings, compared with the  valuation  of 13.9 for the
MSCI World Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund slid 1.2 percent to $40.76. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
surged 9.8 percent to 25.73.  Brazil’s Ibovespa dropped for a fifth consecutive day as
lower commodity prices pushed raw-material producers down. Vale
fell 1.9 percent, while oil company OGX Petroleo e Gas
Participacoes SA sank to a record after people with direct
knowledge of the matter said it plans to miss a $44.5 million
payment on dollar bonds scheduled for tomorrow.  Russian stocks trimmed their strongest quarterly rally in
almost three years as crude oil, the nation’s chief export
earner, declined. OAO RusHydro, the nation’s biggest renewable
energy producer, sank 2.6 percent. OAO Mechel, Russia’s largest
coking coal producer, retreated 2.3 percent.  China’s Stocks  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  capped the best quarter in
three years as consumer discretionary and technology stocks
advanced in the last trading day before a weeklong holiday shuts
the nation’s markets. Shanghai Oriental Pearl (Group) Co. jumped
by the 10 percent daily limit after the central government
inaugurated the Shanghai free trade zone yesterday.  Chinese shares gained even after data showed that the
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics rose to 50.2 in September from 50.1 in August. The
final number was less than last week’s 51.2 preliminary reading
and the 51.2 median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. A
similar gauge from the government is due tomorrow.  India’s (SENSEX)  benchmark stock index fell to a three-week low.
 ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the country’s second-biggest lender, slid 4.3
percent. The rupee capped its best month in a year after the
central bank took steps to boost dollar supply.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index fell 3 percent, capping
a 4.2 percent quarterly loss. Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  sank 2.4
percent to the lowest level since Sept. 6. Indonesia’s rupiah
weakened 14 percent since the end of June as of 4:24 p.m. in
Jakarta, the biggest loss among 24 developing-nation exchange
rates tracked by Bloomberg. The rupiah fell 5.7 percent in
September and 0.4 percent today.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over  U.S. Treasuries  advanced four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 337 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  