-- EPA Didn’t Use Alias E-Mails to Evade Rules: Auditor
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-09-30T18:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/epa-didn-t-use-alias-e-mails-to-evade-rules-auditor.html
Officials from the Environmental
Protection Agency didn’t use private or alias e-mail addresses
to circumvent public scrutiny, the agency’s watchdog said today.  The EPA’s  Office of Inspector General  found there is “no
evidence” the agency used or promoted use of these e-mail
accounts as a way to get around federal record-keeping rules.
The auditors, however, urged the agency to enhance rules and
training so that e-mails using secondary addresses or private
accounts will be official records.  The auditors report was done in response to a request by
lawmakers following the disclosure that former EPA Administrator
 Lisa Jackson , now a vice president at  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , used the e-mail account  Windsor.Richard@epa.gov  to communicate with White
House officials and her top aides. Jackson says she created the
secondary address because her official account received more
than 1 million messages a year.  “EPA had not created records management policies and
procedures for private e-mail account usage,” the inspector
general said in a report today. “The EPA also risks the
possibility that agency personnel are not capturing potential
records needed to document agency decisions.”  Republicans in Congress such as House Oversight committee
chairman  Darrell Issa  argued that Jackson and other officials
failed to appropriately manage those records, allowing the
agency to have communications or make decisions out of the
public eye. In response to Freedom of Information Act requests,
the agency has been searching through and releasing those
Richard Windsor e-mails.  In its response to the audit, agency officials said they
would “perform corrective actions” recommended by the
inspector general.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  