-- Mercator Hires BMO as It Considers Sale After Metals Drop
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-09-30T20:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/mercator-hires-bmo-as-it-considers-sale-after-metals-drop.html
Mercator Minerals Ltd. (ML) , the copper
producer that has fallen 79 percent this year, hired BMO Capital
Markets to advise on a potential sale or merger as it deferred a
debt payment on its Arizona mine.  A special committee of three board members will also
consider a sale of some of the Vancouver-based company’s assets
or a “strategic investment,” Mercator said today in a
statement. Mercator said it has spoken with and received non-binding proposals from “a number of interested parties.”  Copper futures have declined 8 percent on the London Metal
Exchange this year as growth slowed in  China , the world’s
largest consumer of metals. Molybdenum, which accounts for
almost half of Mercator’s sales, has dropped 20 percent as
demand for the metal used in steel alloys has declined.  “With metal prices dropping a little bit and the operating
costs continuing to be fairly high it’s really squeezed their
margins,” Adam Low, a Toronto-based analyst for Raymond James
Ltd., said in a phone interview today.  Mercator dropped 4.6 percent to 10.5 Canadian cents at the
close in Toronto.  Mercator’s Mineral Park unit will defer a $4.8 million
principal payment due today on a $86.8 million loan facility,
after reaching an agreement with lenders. The accord will also
allow the subsidiary to withdraw as much as $5 million from a
debt-service reserve account through Oct. 31 to fund the  Arizona 
facility, Mercator’s only operating mine.  ‘Challenging Environment’  The agreement with creditors “should allow Mineral Park to
continue to operate in this challenging environment which in
turn will facilitate the review of strategic alternatives,”
Mercator Chief Executive Officer D. Bruce McLeod said in the
statement.  In March, McLeod said the company was in discussions to
sell 25 percent of its  El Pilar  project in northern  Mexico . The
company still owns 100 percent of El Pilar, according to its
website. A spokesman for Mercator declined to comment on the
project.  El Pilar has the necessary permits to begin digging and
“would attract some interest,” said Low. Offering to sell a
minority stake might be a sticking point for buyers who want
operating control, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  