-- Merkel Ally Says Germany Ready to Discuss Extra Aid for Portugal
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-09-30T11:03:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/merkel-ally-says-germany-ready-to-discuss-extra-aid-for-portugal.html
Portugal  may be eligible for more
aid once its current program expires because the government made
considerable efforts to overhaul the economy and cut the budget
deficit, a senior German coalition lawmaker said.  “Portugal, according to my perception, has undertaken very
great efforts politically -- both in improving competitiveness
and fiscal consolidation,” Michael Meister, a deputy chairman
of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s parliamentary group, said in a
Sept. 27 telephone interview. “If further assistance should be
necessary beyond the program, then one should be ready to talk
about this.”  Portugal’s  Finance Ministry  denied at the weekend that
there were any talks taking place about a second rescue program.
The ministry made its statement on Sept. 28 following a report
of another bailout in the daily newspaper Publico.  Portuguese Vice Premier Paulo Portas pointed out the
distinction between a “precautionary program” such as Ireland
“will start to negotiate” and a second rescue as was given to
 Greece . “There is no possible comparison between the two
things,” he said on Sept. 16. “What Portugal is interested in,
is to be in a condition to finance itself autonomously and to be
able to benefit from that precautionary program.”  ESM Request  Meister didn’t specify which kind of program he was
referring to. Portugal would have to approach the euro countries
and the European Stability Mechanism with a request for aid,
after which the so-called troika of creditors would examine the
application and present a proposal on the possible extent of
assistance and the conditions attached to it, he said.  Germany ’s
lower house of parliament, or Bundestag, would have to approve
the aid package, he said.  Portuguese Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  is facing
down public opposition to austerity measures as he prepares to
present fresh spending cuts in his 2014 budget proposal in about
two weeks. Passos Coelho said that his  Social Democratic Party 
suffered a “national electoral defeat” when it won fewer town
halls in municipal elections yesterday than in previous votes.  Portugal is trying to regain full access to debt markets
with the end of the aid plan approaching in June 2014. The
European Union is considering help next year to try to wean
Portugal from the bailout, and officials from the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund  began a regular review of the aid
program on Sept. 16.  Coelho, whose term ends in 2015, has to trim spending by
about 3.3 billion euros ($4.5 billion) in 2014 after relying
mainly on tax increases this year to meet targets set in its 78-billion euro aid program. The government, which aims to meet the
EU’s 3 percent  budget-deficit  limit in 2015, predicts a return
to  growth  in 2014 after three years of contraction.  Meister said he doubts that changes to Portugal’s current
program would have a big impact even as the government is making
efforts to accomplish the intended return to markets. For the
time being, a follow-up program is “not on the agenda,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  