-- Merkel Ally Says Euro States Must Handle Their Own Failing Banks
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-09-30T13:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/merkel-ally-says-euro-states-must-handle-their-own-failing-banks.html
One of German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s senior lawmakers said euro-area governments should
handle their failing banks without recourse to assistance from
resolution funds in other countries.  European Union financial-services chief  Michel Barnier  has
proposed a Single Resolution Mechanism for euro-zone lenders
that involves a 55 billion-euro ($75 billion) common fund.
 Germany  has led opposition to the plan.  Michael Meister, a deputy chairman of Merkel’s
parliamentary group, said euro states should consider copying
Germany’s model, which allows the national bank resolution fund
to borrow from federal coffers when its own means are exhausted.
If the government can’t help, it should apply for aid from the
European Stability Mechanism, he said.  “I see no need for national restructuring funds to lend
each other money,” Meister said in a Sept. 27 interview. “I’m
rather of the opinion that we have agreed on a clear pecking
order that begins with the owners of the banks, continues with
the creditors and leads over to national liability funds.”  Meister’s comments suggest that all euro states should
follow in the footsteps of  Spain , whose government has borrowed
slightly more than  41 billion euros  from the ESM to recapitalize
its banks. Spain qualified for as much as 100 billion euros of
aid.  Legal Ground  Merkel’s government says Barnier’s resolution proposal must
be overhauled because it’s on shaky legal ground and could
endanger national control of budgets. In March, Germany began
trying to build support behind an alternative blueprint for a
“network of national resolution authorities” and backstop
funds to deal with crisis-hit banks.  “Either a state is able to help its national fund, in
which case we don’t need liability among the funds, or the state
isn’t able to cope, in which case it already has the option to
go to the ESM,” Meister said. “Either way, no liability among
the funds is needed.”  Proposals to pool national resolution funds are also
unrealistic because combined amounts are hardly sufficient to
deal with major failing lenders, Meister said. Germany has a
“low single-digit billion-euro amount” in its fund, he said.  The  European Central Bank  is scheduled to begin supervising
lenders in the currency bloc as soon as October 2014, forcing
the EU to grapple with who should decide when to close a bank
and who will pay for it.  Commission Role  Earlier this month, Barnier defended the core of his Single
Resolution Mechanism, which would also give the Brussels-based
commission, the EU’s executive arm, the power to close banks.  “We have a problem with the idea that the European
Commission should do this,” said Meister. “The commission is
responsible for example for competition law in the internal
market and for questions of financial assistance. Any form of
restructuring is of course an intervention in the market. Those
who intervene can’t at the same time assess the intervention.”  Barnier said the commission isn’t wedded to being chief
decision-maker in the resolution system and would welcome a
discussion on alternatives. The commission put itself forward
for the role because of its reading of EU treaties, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  