-- Heroes and Soldiers of the Supreme Court
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-09-30T14:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/heroes-and-soldiers-of-the-supreme-court.html
As the  Supreme Court  prepares to
begin its new term, observers have been discussing the familiar
 divisions  among the justices. Judicial activism is opposed to
judicial restraint, liberalism is opposed to conservatism, and
those who believe in an evolving or “living” Constitution are
opposed to those who believe that the document’s meaning was
fixed when its provisions were originally ratified.  But if we look over the arc of the  court’s  history, we will
quickly uncover another division. For more than two centuries,
the court’s members have adopted one of four roles and self-presentations that define their work. These constitutional
personas are Heroes, Soldiers, Burkeans and Mutes.  Heroes are entirely willing to invoke the Constitution’s
broad principles to invalidate state and federal legislation. In
sharp contrast, Soldiers defer to, and seek to uphold, the
actions of elected officials. Burkeans emphasize the importance
of traditions and precedents; they favor modest, incremental
changes. Mutes like to remain silent. They prefer not to speak
to controversial questions.  The most important constitutional problems, including those
that the court will face this term, involve heated conflicts
among the four personas.  Over the course of U.S. history, the court has had many
Heroes. (I am using the term as a description, not as an
evaluation; Heroes can make big mistakes.) Chief Justice  Earl Warren  wrote the court’s opinion in Brown v. Board of Education,
which struck down school segregation; he was unquestionably
Heroic. Indeed, the era of the Warren court was one of rampant
Heroism. Invalidating poll taxes, forbidding mandatory school
prayer and requiring one-person-one-vote, the justices
interpreted constitutional provisions to require large-scale
social reforms.  Heroic Justices  The Warren court was to the left of center, but Heroes
exist on the right as well. In the first third of the 20th
century, we can find Heroism in the Four Horsemen, who voted to
strike down minimum-wage and maximum-hour legislation (and
ultimately threatened  Franklin Roosevelt ’s New Deal): Pierce Butler, James Clark McReynolds, George Sutherland and Willis Van Devanter.  Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission , which
invalidates certain campaign-finance restrictions, ranks among
the court’s most Heroic rulings in recent years. In 2013, the
leading example of Heroism is  Shelby County v. Holder , in which
the justices stuck down an important provision of the Voting
Rights Act.  The defining feature of the judicial Soldier is a
willingness to defer to the will of his or her superiors,
typically understood as the political branches of government.
Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes liked to adopt the role of the
Soldier, as reflected in his famous suggestion: “If my fellow
citizens want to go to Hell I will help them. It’s my job.”  In the late 1930s and through the 1940s, most justices
acted as Soldiers, usually upholding the acts of Congress and
state governments. But Soldiering can be found in every era,
including our own. Arguing on behalf of the Voting Rights Act
last term, Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  wrote a powerful dissent
in defense of the Soldier. In the same week, Justice  Antonin Scalia  did something similar in arguing that the court should
uphold the Defense of Marriage Act.  Burkeans -- following the great social theorist Edmund Burke -- don’t much like either Heroes or Soldiers, because they
favor small, cautious steps, building humbly and incrementally
on the decisions and practices of the past. On the Warren court,
Justice Felix Frankfurter was sometimes a Burkean, rejecting
large, soaring rulings in favor of more modest ones.  Burkeanism has played a significant role in recent years.
In its narrow 2013 decision in  Fisher v. University of Texas ,
striking down a particular affirmative-action program without
pronouncing broadly on affirmative-action programs, the justices
took an unmistakably Burkean posture.  Golden Silence  Mutes are even more modest than Burkeans, because they
prefer to say nothing at all. No judge can be consistently
quiet, of course, and so Mutes are infrequent players in the
constitutional drama. But they have had an exceedingly important
place in U.S. history.  Probably the most prominent example of Muteness came in
1955, when the Supreme Court refused to pronounce on the
constitutionality of restrictions on racial intermarriage. And
just last term, Chief Justice  John Roberts  wrote the court’s
decision dismissing, on technical grounds,  a challenge  to a
California law banning recognition of same-sex marriage,
ensuring that the court would remain mute on that sharply
contested issue (at least for now).  This term, the court will face an assortment of high-stakes
issues. Can Congress impose restrictions on the aggregate amount
that individuals can give to political campaigns? Does a state
have the power to forbid public universities and schools from
adopting affirmative-action programs? Can a local legislature
require its meetings to start with a prayer? When may the
president make recess appointments?  We don’t know how the justices will answer these questions.
But on one point, we can rest assured: Heroes, Soldiers,
Burkeans and Mutes will be playing significant roles.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 