-- Mets’ Collins Gets Two-Year Extension After Third Place Finish
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-09-30T16:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/mets-collins-gets-two-year-extension-after-third-place-finish.html
New York Mets manager Terry Collins
agreed on a two-year extension after leading the Major League
Baseball team to a 224-261 record over three seasons.  The extension includes a team option for the 2016 season,
according to General Manager  Sandy Alderson . While the team
didn’t announce financial terms, MLB.com reported it was worth
about $1 million a year.  Collins, 64, was hired in November 2010, inheriting a team
that had finished fourth in the  National League East  for the
second consecutive year. During his tenure the Mets unloaded
talent, including All-Stars Jose Reyes and  Carlos Beltran ; cut
payroll by 44 percent; and settled a $303 million lawsuit
brought by the liquidator of convicted  Ponzi scheme  developer
 Bernie Madoff ’s company that team owners said limited their
financial flexibility.  “Terry has done an outstanding job for us,” Alderson said
today at a televised press conference. “The team never quit,
continued to play hard, continued to play with the resources it
had at hand and finished as well as we could have expected.”  The Mets will also bring back Collins’s entire staff,
Alderson said.  The Mets have missed the playoffs for the last seven
seasons, and 2006 brought their only postseason berth since
losing to the  New York Yankees  in the 2000  World Series .  The Mets were 77-85 in Collins’s first season, fourth in
the NL East. New York finished fourth in the five-team division
again in 2012, at 74-88, a record matched this season as the
team climbed to third.  Both Alderson and Collins said they were unhappy with the
win-loss record the last three years.  ‘High Expectations’  “Each of those years we went into spring training with
high expectations, higher than most people had, because we knew
the personnel,” Collins said. “Certainly there were a lot of
things beyond our control and we didn’t perform up to what our
expectations were.”  Collins arrived in New York after three-year stints with
the  Houston Astros  (1994-96) and Anaheim Angels (1997-99). Known
as an effective leader through rebuilding seasons, he has never
led a team to the playoffs.  The Mets’ opening-day payroll was $132.7 million the year
prior to Collins’ arrival, the fifth-highest in the major
leagues. This year, the team ranked No. 25 with payroll of $74.1
million, according to Newsday, a 44 percent drop in three years.  Madoff Case  That coincided with off-field legal problems that limited
the team’s financial options. In March 2012, owners  Fred Wilpon 
and Saul Katz agreed to pay $162 million to settle a lawsuit
brought by the liquidator of Madoff’s firm, who alleged that the
owners ignored signs that the investor was running a Ponzi
scheme. Those losses were likely mitigated by money they later
collected from net winners of the Madoff accounts and the Mets
announced that same month that they had repaid a $25 million
loan from MLB and a $40 million loan from Bank of America.  The team allowed Reyes, the franchise’s all-time leader in
triples and stolen bases, to leave via free agency after the
2011 season. The Mets also traded away Beltran, an eight-time
All-Star, and starting pitcher R.A. Dickey, the 2012 National
League Cy Young Award winner.  Collins has a reputation of developing young players, and
through those trades the Mets were able to bring in prospects
such as starting pitcher Zack Wheeler and catcher Travis
d’Arnaud. With the emergence of second-year starter Matt Harvey,
an All-Star who is currently rehabilitating a torn arm ligament,
Collins said he would enter 2014 with “very, very high
expectations.”  “We saw some bright things that happened this year with
some of our young players,” he said. “It’s time to put some
wins on the board.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  