-- Euro’s Eight-Month High at Risk on ECB Stimulus: Market Reversal
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-10-01T17:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/euro-s-seven-month-high-at-risk-on-ecb-stimulus-market-reversal.html
Trading patterns in the euro show its
rally to an eight-month high is vulnerable, as a political
crisis in  Italy  and speculation the European Central Bank will
pump liquidity into the financial system weigh on the currency.  The euro’s 2.5 percent rally since the end of August,
bigger than any monthly gain since April, pushed the currency
through the upper level of the 30-day Bollinger band, signaling
a turnaround is imminent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It
climbed to as high as $1.3588 today, a key Fibonacci level that
may act as a barrier to further increases.  While the euro has surged this year as the currency bloc
emerged from its longest-ever recession, ECB President Mario
Draghi said Sept. 23 he’s ready to deploy another long-term
refinancing operation to fund banks. That risks devaluing the
euro, as does Italy’s political turbulence, in which the five-month old government teeters on the brink of collapse.  “As you start to push up from $1.36, the ECB starts to
become uncomfortable and we’d expect more rhetoric to come out
from the members,” Christian Lawrence, a strategist at Rabobank
International in  London , said in a Sept. 26 interview. “Draghi
will hint at the option of another LTRO, and the market will
start pricing it in every time he talks about it.”  Depreciation Seen  The euro has surged from its low this year of $1.2746 on
April 4, and was at $1.3530 at 1:52 p.m. in New York. Rabobank
predicts the currency will weaken to $1.32 by year-end, while
the median forecast of more than 60 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg has it depreciating to $1.30.  Europe’s common currency lost 6.5 percent in the last two
months of 2011 when former Italian Prime Minister Silvio
Berlusconi resigned and the ECB said it would allot unlimited
three-year cash to the region’s banks to boost lending.  The fallout from a potential government collapse in Italy
following a non-confidence vote tomorrow and the possibility
that Draghi takes new steps to ease monetary policies on the
same day will weigh on the euro, according to Valentin Marinov,
the London-based head of Europe Group of 10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Citigroup Inc.  The currency first breached the upper limit of its 30-day
Bollinger band on Sept. 18 when the Federal Reserve refrained
from trimming the $85 billion it spends every month buying
bonds. It touched $1.3588 today, the highest level since Feb. 6.  ‘Losing Momentum’  “It has struggled to extend its post-Fed rally, and does
seem to be losing momentum,” Niall O’Connor, a New York-based
analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. who watches trading patterns to
figure out where asset prices may be headed next, said in a
phone interview on Sept. 26. “If you look at any momentum
indicators it’ll show the short term setup is overbought.”  Bollinger bands, developed by John Bollinger in the 1980s,
are used by technical analysts to identify the turning point in
an asset’s trajectory. The limits represent two standard
deviations from the 30-day moving average, implying that the
likelihood of a currency moving outside the band is rare.  The euro’s 14-day relative strength index rose as high as
69.2 last month, just short of the 70 threshold that signals a
turnaround is imminent.  Though strategists are betting on a weaker euro, they have
trimmed their bearish calls. The median forecast of more than 60
estimates in a Bloomberg survey is for it to end the year at
$1.31. In July, the median was $1.26.  The euro has rallied 5.4 percent this year, the best
performance among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.  Speculator Bets  “Stronger growth and improved sentiments are particularly
euro-positive,” Sara Yates, the global head of foreign-exchange
strategy at JPMorgan Private Bank, said in a phone interview on
Sept. 20. Yates predicted the currency will stay in a range of
range of $1.28 to $1.36.  Hedge funds and other large speculators accumulated the
most euro-bullish bets against the dollar since May 2011,
according to data from Washington-based Commodity Futures
Trading Commission compiled by Bloomberg.  The difference in the number of wagers on a rise in the
euro compared with those on a fall, or net longs, totaled 65,844
contracts on Sept. 27, more than double the previous week.  “Long-euro positions are getting crowded,” Kasper Kirkegaard, a senior strategist at Danske Bank in Copenhagan,
wrote in a Sept. 30 report. “It implies that positioning has
now become a downside risk to euro-dollar, and not an upside
risk factor as during most of the  European debt crisis .”  Euro Economy  While the euro area’s economy  grew  0.3 percent in the three
months ended June, ending six straight quarters of contraction,
the manufacturing sector may be showing signs of strain as a
stronger currency hurts exporters’ competitiveness.  The euro-region  manufacturing  index declined to 51.1 in
September from 51.4 the previous month, and  business confidence 
in  Germany  rose less than economists forecast.  “My own personal view is that euro strength is a problem
in the euro area, especially a country like Italy, for example,
which has a very strong export sector,” Larry Kantor, head of
research at Barclays Plc said at a press briefing in New York on
Sept. 26. “Probably the single most important thing they could
do is get the euro down. The biggest threat to the euro area
right now is growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in New York at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  