-- European Stocks Retreat as U.S. Government Shutdown Looms
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-09-30T16:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/european-stock-index-futures-drop-as-u-s-shutdown-looms.html
European stocks  declined the most
in a month, trimming the best quarter in four years, as the U.S.
faced the first government shutdown in 17 years and Italian
Prime Minister Enrico Letta fought to save his administration.  UniCredit SpA and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s biggest
banks, dropped more than 1 percent as the nation’s benchmark
FTSE MIB Index slid 1.2 percent.  Rio Tinto  Group led mining
companies lower after a measure of Chinese manufacturing missed
a preliminary estimate. Aryzta AG rallied the most in six months
as the Swiss supplier of bakery products reported results that
topped projections.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index fell 0.6 percent to 310.46 at
the close of trading, the biggest drop since Aug. 30. The gauge
has still climbed 4.4 percent in September as the  Federal
Reserve  held off from trimming its monthly asset purchases. It
has surged 8.9 percent since the end of June for the largest
quarterly gain since the third period of 2009.  “Risk appetite is on the retreat, driven by the political
drama on both sides of the Atlantic,” Witold Bahrke, who helps
oversee $55 billion as a senior strategist at PFA Pension A/S in
Copenhagen, wrote in an e-mail. “Dysfunctional governments are
the root of the problem, which means heightened political
uncertainty will be the dominating theme, reversing the equity-friendly sentiment from the first half of September.”  U.S. Shutdown  The U.S. government is heading for its first partial
shutdown since 1996 at midnight tonight, after a weekend with no
signs of negotiations or compromise from either the  House of
Representatives  or Senate to avert it.  The House voted 231-192 yesterday to tie an extension of
government funding through Dec. 15 to a delay in many central
provisions of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care changes. The
Senate convened in  Washington  today and will probably reject the
deferral to Obamacare.  A federal shutdown would reduce fourth-quarter economic
growth by as much as 1.4 percentage points, depending on its
length, economists said, as government workers from park rangers
to telephone receptionists are laid off temporarily. The Office
of Management and Budget estimated 30 days of shutdowns in 1995
and 1996 cost more than $1.4 billion, or $2.09 billion in
today’s dollars.  In Italy, Letta said he’ll request a confidence vote for
Oct. 2 to try to save his five-month-old administration after
 Silvio Berlusconi  withdrew his support from the ruling coalition
and pulled his ministers from cabinet. Yields on the nation’s
10-year bonds rose two basis points to 4.43 percent.  Italian Banks  UniCredit (UCG) , Italy’s largest bank, lost 1.3 percent to 4.71
euros. Intesa Sanpaolo, which appointed Carlo Messina as chief
executive officer to replace Enrico Tommaso Cucchiani yesterday,
fell 3.5 percent to 1.53 euros. Mediaset SpA, the broadcaster
controlled by Berlusconi, dropped 4.5 percent to 3 euros, the
lowest price since July 3.  A  gauge of basic-resources shares  fell 0.9 percent. Rio
Tinto and BHP Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining
companies, retreated 1.4 percent to 3,023 pence and 1.1 percent
to 1,820 pence, respectively. Anglo American Plc lost 1.4
percent to 1,518 pence.  A Chinese manufacturing gauge rose to 50.2 for September
from 50.1 in August, according to a purchasing managers’ index
from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics. The reading missed
the preliminary estimate of 51.2. Fifty is the threshold between
contraction and expansion.  National benchmark indexes retreated in all 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 (UKX)  and  Germany ’s DAX each
lost 0.8 percent, while France’s CAC 40 Index slid 1 percent.  Volume Gains  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the Stoxx 600 was 8.6 percent higher than the average of the
past 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stora Enso Oyj, which had climbed 17 percent from May 31
through last week’s close, tumbled 5.4 percent to 6.27 euros as
UBS AG lowered its recommendation on Europe’s biggest paper
maker to sell from neutral. The stock’s rally was partly driven
by speculation of a merger with UPM-Kymmene Oyj, a deal that is
unlikely to get antitrust clearance from the European Union,
analyst David Hallden wrote in a note.  UPM-Kymmene (UPM1V) , a rival maker of paper, dropped 1.9 percent to
10.23 euros.  Aryzta surged 4 percent to 60.45 Swiss francs, the biggest
gain since March 28. The owner of bakery brands including Delice
de France and Otis Spunkmeyer posted full-year revenue of 4.5
billion euros ($6.1 billion), beating analysts’ estimates of
4.43 billion euros. The company also forecast a double-digit
percentage gain in 2014 earnings.  Telecom Italia  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  rose 5.2 percent to 61 euro cents amid
speculation Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe will resign.
Bernabe plans to tell the board at a meeting scheduled for Oct.
3 that he’s ready to step down after losing the backing of Telco
SpA, the Telefonica SA-led holding company that owns 22.4
percent of the carrier, according to a person with knowledge of
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the
deliberations are confidential.  Groupe Eurotunnel SA surged 6.7 percent to 6.74 euros, the
highest price since March 2012.  France  and the U.K. will reject
the European Commission’s request to lower the company’s fees
for passengers and freight trains using the Channel Tunnel,
Reuters reported on Sept. 27, citing Chief Executive Officer
Jacques Gounon. Today is the deadline for the two countries to
respond to the commission, according to Reuters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  