-- Euro-Area September Inflation Slows More Than Forecast on Energy
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-09-30T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/euro-area-september-inflation-slows-more-than-forecast-on-energy.html
Euro-area inflation slowed for a
second month in September, led by falling energy prices, and
remained below the European Central Bank’s 2 percent ceiling for
an eighth month.  Consumer prices rose an annual 1.1 percent after a 1.3
percent increase in August, the European Union’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said in a preliminary estimate today. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 34 economists was
for 1.2 percent growth. The core inflation rate, which excludes
volatile food and energy costs, was 1 percent.  The ECB forecasts that inflation will average 1.5 percent
this year and 1.3 percent in 2014. ECB President Mario Draghi
reaffirmed his  pledge  last week to keep key interest rates low
for an extended period of time “based on a subdued outlook for
inflation” and “broad-based weakness” in the economy. The
central bank is forecast to hold its benchmark rate at a record
low 0.5 percent on Oct. 2, a separate  Bloomberg survey  shows.  “It does appear that the recovery in Europe is gradually
establishing itself, but it’s still pretty fragile,” Howard Archer, chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in
 London , said before the data were published. “Inflation being
low is helping consumers’ purchasing power, and it means that
the ECB does have scope for further action if it considers it
necessary.”  German Inflation  Energy prices in the euro area fell 0.9 percent after a 0.3
percent decline in August, today’s report showed. The cost of
food, alcohol and tobacco increased 2.6 percent after a 3.2
percent gain a month earlier.  Inflation in Germany , Europe’s largest economy, was
unchanged at 1.6 percent in September, data on Sept. 27 showed.
The Bundesbank said last week that slowing inflation is helping
to support an “extraordinarily good” consumer climate in
 Germany .  Euro-area  economic confidence  increased more than
economists forecast this month to the most in two years. An
index of services rose to the highest since June 2011, signaling
a strengthening recovery.  Economists in a Bloomberg survey published this month
forecast euro-area economic growth of 0.2 percent this quarter
and next after 0.3 percent expansion in the three months through
June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  