-- Everton Beats Newcastle 3-2 to Climb to Fourth in Premier League
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-10-01T00:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/everton-beats-newcastle-3-2-in-english-soccer-s-premier-league.html
Romelu Lukaku scored two goals and
set up another in his first Premier League start for Everton,
which beat Newcastle 3-2 to remain the only undefeated team in
English soccer’s top division.  Lukaku scored twice in the first half and also provided the
pass for Ross Barkley’s goal as Everton led 3-0 at halftime at
Goodison Park in Liverpool last night. Newcastle substitute
Yohan Cabaye scored six minutes into the second half and Loic
Remy added the second goal for the visiting team near the end.  “We did the job, we won, we’re still unbeaten, so we have
to continue like this,” Lukaku said in a televised interview.  The win lifted Everton four places to fourth in the 20-team
standings with 12 points, the same tally from six games as its
last league title-winning season in 1986-87. Newcastle remains
16th, with seven points. Arsenal is top with 15 points, followed
by Liverpool and Tottenham on 13.  Lukaku, 20, joined Chelsea from Anderlecht in his native
 Belgium  in August 2011 and spent last season at West Bromwich
Albion, where he rose to prominence by scoring three goals in a
5-5 draw with  Manchester United  in  Alex Ferguson ’s 1,500th and
final match in charge of the English champion. In two league
appearances for Everton, Lukaku has scored three goals.  “Sometimes you see a number nine that is powerful and has
great physical presence, I think what Romelu also brings is a
great technical awareness of what’s around him,” Everton
manager  Roberto Martinez  said of his loan signing.  Right-Foot Finish  Everton took the lead after five minutes as Kevin Mirallas
drove down the right wing and sent a low ball across the penalty
area for Lukaku to finish with a right-foot shot under Newcastle
goalkeeper  Tim Krul .  After another 20 minutes it was 2-0 as Lukaku ran at the
center of Newcastle’s defense before delivering a pass for
Barkley to run onto and score with a low shot from about 12
yards (11 meters).  Everton went 3-0 up in the 37th minute when Newcastle
defender Fabricio Coloccini and Krul failed to deal with a long
clearance by Everton keeper  Tim Howard , allowing Lukaku to put
the ball into an empty net.  Lukaku had the ball in the goal again before half time,
though the effort was disallowed because of offside.  Yoan Gouffran struck a post for Newcastle in the second
minute of the second half and Leon Osman almost got a goal at
the other end less than a minute later.  Newcastle coach  Alan Pardew  brought on Cabaye for the start
of the second half and his dipping, out-swerving shot from about
20 yards flew past Howard and into the net six minutes after the
interval.  Neither team could get another goal until the 89th minute,
when Remy scored from short range. The French striker came close
to another goal in time added on at the end of the game with a
shot that rose over Howard’s crossbar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  