-- Ex-Xstrata CEO Davis Raises $1 Billion From Noble, TPG
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2013-09-30T16:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/ex-xstrata-ceo-davis-raises-1-billion-from-noble-tpg.html
Mick Davis , former chief executive
officer of Xstrata Plc, raised $1 billion from  Noble Group (NOBL)  and
private-equity fund TPG to start a resources company.  Noble, Asia’s largest raw-materials trader, and TPG agreed
to each invest $500 million in the new company X2 Resources,
according to a statement today from X2 Partners, founded by
Davis and former Xstrata Chief Financial Officer Trevor Reid.  X2, also in talks with other potential investors, will use
the funds to start a diversified mining and metals group. Davis,
55, and Reid, 52, were part of the team that set up Xstrata, a
company that grew 100-fold to a market value of about $50
billion after 10 years of mergers, acquisitions and expansion.  “This is a great time to acquire assets in the mining
sector,” said  John Meyer , an analyst at London-based SP Angel
Corporate Finance LLP. “The majors continue to offer sub-scale
assets, including some better quality but smaller operations as
they refocus on their larger cash generators.  ‘‘Investors who follow Davis and other turnaround
specialists in the sector could make a killing,’’ he said.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  ex-CEO Aaron Regent and former JPMorgan
Chase & Co. banker Lloyd Pengilly are among those raking through
unexploited mining assets.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) 
are leading asset disposals and may sell businesses and stakes
amounting to as much as $35 billion, Deutsche Bank AG says.  Las Bambas  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , which in May completed the $29
billion all-share purchase of Xstrata, aims to sell Las Bambas,
a Peruvian copper project it inherited from the takeover, to
meet the terms of Chinese regulatory approval for the deal that
created the world’s fourth-largest mining company.  X2 ‘‘will bid against the Chinese or maybe even with the
Chinese for the Las Bambas copper mine in  Peru ,’’ Meyer said.
‘‘I wonder if they would also look to move into certain bulk
commodities, e.g. iron ore and bauxite in  Africa . There are
opportunities for quick and large returns in this area for well-planned projects with relatively little outlay.’’  For Noble, the deal is an opportunity for the Singapore-listed company to mount a challenge to Glencore, according to
Paul Gait, a mining analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.  ‘‘Noble sees a once relatively smaller-scale trader now
becoming the fourth-biggest mining company as well and feels a
strategic threat to its ability to secure tonnages going
forward,’’ Gait said. ‘‘The need for flow of material seems to
force traders to go upstream, and Noble in Mick certainly finds
the track record and experience to deliver that.’’  Repeat Success  Noble’s income from supply chains gained 12 percent in the
second quarter as it continued to source more coal and added new
hires to its oil and gas business, it said Aug. 8. The trader’s
net income slid 68 percent to $62.8 million in the three months
ended June 30, mainly from an agricultural-unit loss, it said.  Chinalco Mining Corp. International (3668) ,  MMG Ltd. (1208)  and  Citic
Resources Holdings Ltd. (1205)  are among Chinese companies studying
offers for Las Bambas, which may be valued at about $5 billion,
according to people with knowledge of the process.  Regent’s Magris Resources Inc. is considering a bid, people
with knowledge of the matter said last month.  Jiangxi Copper
Co. (358) ,  China ’s largest producer of the metal, is interested in Las
Bambas, Company Secretary Pan Qifang said the same day.  X2 investors expect a repeat of the success Davis had with
Xstrata, Meyer said. Noble will be X2’s preferred marketer and
provider of supply-chain management and logistics services,
while TPG, overseeing $55.3 billion of assets, will bring deals
and access to investors, according to the statement.  Davis left as CEO of Glencore Xstrata in May, opting not to
stay in the role for six months after the takeover, as had been
planned. Glencore chief Ivan Glasenberg, 56, became CEO.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. acted as financial adviser to X2
in the Noble-TPG transaction, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  