-- Mexico Peso Posts Quarterly Loss as U.S. Outweighs Reform Agenda
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-10-01T00:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/mexico-s-peso-heads-to-fifth-daily-drop-as-u-s-shutdown-looms.html
Mexico’s peso fell this quarter as
President Enrique Pena Nieto’s push to bolster growth through
legal reforms failed to overshadow concern about the  U.S.
economy  and the  Federal Reserve ’s monetary stimulus.  The currency weakened 1.2 percent this quarter against the
 U.S. dollar  after rising 0.4 percent today. The yield on
benchmark government debt maturing in 2024 rose three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.08 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Speculation on when the Federal Reserve will begin to slow
its pace of monetary stimulus and concern over whether U.S.
lawmakers will reach a budget agreement has been causing peso
swings,  Rafael Camarena , an economist at Grupo Financiero
Santander Mexico SAB, said in a telephone interview. The
currency fell this quarter even as President Enrique Pena Nieto
presented plans to bolster growth by opening the state-owned oil
industry and boosting tax collection.  “We’d have to see more advances in the discussion around
the reforms to see the peso separate itself a bit from this
external volatility,” Camarena said by phone from Mexico City.  While foreign investors boosted holdings of local-currency,
fixed-rate  government bonds  to a record in May, the debt slumped
this quarter as Pena Nieto’s proposals for legal changes didn’t
go as far as some investors had hoped and the government cut its
2013 growth forecast.  The government on Aug. 20 reduced its forecast for this
year’s economic growth to 1.8 percent, from a May 17 estimate of
3.1 percent. Pena Nieto said earlier this year that passage of
his legislative agenda, which includes constitutional amendments
to open the state-owned oil industry to more private investment
and increase tax collection, could spur annual growth to as much
as 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  