-- Fab.com CEO Signals Job Cuts May Be Coming as Site Retools
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-09-30T19:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/fab-com-ceo-signals-that-job-cuts-may-be-coming-as-site-retools.html
Fab.com Inc., the e-commerce
startup valued at about $1 billion, signaled that job cuts may
be coming as the company revamps its approach to selling goods
and strives to turn a profit.  As of tomorrow, the company will complete a shift to an
inventory-based system, Chief Executive Officer  Jason Goldberg 
said in an e-mailed memo to employees. Fab had been relying on
so-called flash sales, where a limited amount of merchandise is
sold in bursts. The New York-based company also is rolling out a
new website and mobile application by November, he said.  “Our processes are changing, along with our investments in
technology that may impact the number of people required to
perform various tasks,” Goldberg said in the memo, which
directed employees to a  detailed letter  about the company’s
strategy. “At the same time, we are accelerating our path to
profitability, with a commitment to get Fab profitable on our
current financing by continuously optimizing our cost
structure.”  The shake-up follows a move in July to eliminate 100 Fab
employees in Berlin. The company also shifted 30 workers from
the German office to New York, part of an effort to streamline
operations. Fab said last month that no additional job cuts were
in the works.  ‘Concrete Answers’  “I know that this transition has a caused a lot of our
team members to feel uncertainty about how we will be structured
going forward,” Goldberg said in the memo. “I promise that we
will have concrete answers for everyone in terms of how these
changes will affect you in the next few days.”  The two-year-old startup, which rose to prominence with its
quirky home goods, art and jewelry, raised $150 million in June
from investors such as  China ’s Tencent Holdings Ltd. The deal
valued the retailer at about $1 billion. Additional funding
rounds in July and August brought the total amount raised to at
least $325 million.  As it grew, Fab struggled with selling its highly curated
merchandise on a global scale. Earlier this year, the company
shifted from a flash-sale site to an “online lifestyle shop.”  Flash sales, which require shoppers to buy goods in a short
amount of time, were hard to operate en masse, Goldberg said in
a memo when the Berlin shake-up was announced.  “Running a flash-sales website is very different than
running a global store,” he said. “When we were a flash sales
website we essentially launched a new store every day. We all
worked the long hours and we all felt like there was always more
work to do than we could possibly handle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  