-- FastJet Targets Southern Africa as Tanzanian Routes Show Promise
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-09-30T08:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/fastjet-targets-southern-africa-as-tanzanian-routes-show-promise.html
FastJet Plc (FJET) , seeking to become the
first pan-African discount airline, said it’s ready to extend a
network currently limited to the Tanzanian domestic market into
South Africa, Zambia and Malawi in coming months.  FastJet had an operating loss of $39 million in the first
half, with the Tanzanian operation trimming its shortfall to
$4.2 million in the second quarter, the London-based company
said in a statement today. Net cash fell to $4.4 million before
the airline raised $9.3 million through a share sale.  “We are moving ahead with our growth plans,” said Chief
Executive Officer Ed Winter, who will add a fifth Tanzanian
city, Mbeye, to the timetable from Nov. 1. “As our planned
network expansion progresses and scale covers fixed operating
costs, we fully expect FastJet Tanzania to become profitable.”  FastJet’s first international service, to Johannesburg from
Dar es Salam, Tanzania’s biggest city, will commence once local
approvals have been received, followed by routes to Zambia and
Malawi, it said. Flights could also be added from  South Africa 
to “underserved and overpriced” sub-Saharan locations.  Shares of FastJet shares traded 3.8 percent lower at 5.75
pence as of 8:29 a.m. in London. They’ve slumped 85 percent this
year, valuing the airline at 22 million pounds ($36 million).  FastJet is continuing talks with potential partners to
establish its brand in  Nigeria  via a licensing deal to overcome
regulatory hurdles, it said. Such an arrangement could be used
elsewhere, though growth in South Africa and other major markets
such as  Kenya  will be pursued through direct investments.  The group’s Fly540 operations, which use ATR turbo-propeller aircraft, are not expected to make a profit in the
short term, prompting a series of write downs on goodwill and
investments totaling $14.4 million in the first six months. It’s
trying to reduce its stake in Fly540 Angola while maintaining
the option of expanding FastJet operations there.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  