-- Fed Zero-Rate Hasn’t Hobbled Policy, Regional Bank Says
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2013-09-30T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/fed-zero-rate-hasn-t-hobbled-policy-regional-bank-says.html
The  Federal Reserve ’s cut in the
main interest rate to zero hasn’t impaired its ability to bring
down borrowing costs as much as is perceived, according to a
regional Fed bank.  “To the extent that the Fed can affect these longer-term
 interest rates  through forward guidance and large-scale
purchases of longer-term bonds, the zero lower bound appears not
to have constrained monetary policy as much as is sometimes
believed,”  Eric Swanson , a senior research adviser at the  San
Francisco  Fed, said in a research note released today.  U.S. central bankers have deployed unprecedented tools to
bolster the economy after cutting the benchmark interest rate
almost to zero, or the so-called zero-lower bound, in December
2008.  The Fed has expanded its balance sheet to a record $3.73
trillion and provided more guidance on the future of policy.
Policy makers surprised financial markets on Sept. 18 by
refraining from tapering $85 billion in monthly bond buying.  The Fed’s use of forward guidance and large-scale asset
purchases on several occasions between 2009 and 2012 pushed down
medium- and longer-term Treasury yields by as much as 0.2
percentage point, Swanson said.  “In normal times, it would take a federal funds rate cut
of about 0.75 to 1 percentage point to produce a decline in
medium- and longer-term yields of this magnitude,” he said.
“There was still significant room for  monetary policy  to affect
yields and the economy through the end of 2012.”  The research is based on a paper co-written by Swanson and
San Francisco Fed President  John Williams . They assessed the
impact of Fed policy by measuring the sensitivity of Treasury
yields to economic announcements, such as the monthly jobs
report or figures on inflation.  Three-month Treasuries were no longer responsive to news
from the spring of 2009, while 10-year Treasuries were largely
unaffected by the zero bound even in late 2012, Swanson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  