-- Fed Drains $58.2 Billion in Test of Fixed Reverse Repos
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-09-30T18:21:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/fed-drains-58-2-billion-in-test-of-fixed-reverse-repos-1-.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York  drained $58.2 billion from the banking system, the largest
amount yet in a test of a fixed-rate reverse repo facility that
began operation last week.  “The increase in the allotment size today is related to
quarter-end, as this facility is a convenient place for
investors to put their cash,” said Andrew Hollenhorst, fixed-income strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York. “The Fed
wanted to test how much this facility would be used at quarter-end, when dealer balance sheets come under a little bit of
pressure, making it harder for them to take cash in the repo
market. This makes placing cash at the Fed an attractive
investment alternative.”  The program may be used to aid policy makers when they
tighten monetary policy. The operation at a fixed-rate of 0.01
percent was open to the Fed’s 139 tri-party reverse repo
counterparties, which includes 94 money market mutual funds, six
government-sponsored entities, 18 banks and the Fed’s 21 primary
dealers.  The Fed allotted $9.4 billion in reverse in the inaugural
test on the facility on Sept. 26 and $16.622 billion the next
day, when the maximum bid amount was doubled to $1 billion for
eligible counterparties. The collateral for the transactions has
been limited to Treasury debt.  Fed policy makers, while still buying bonds to support the
economy, have also been developing methods to eventually help
withdraw record monetary accommodation. Along with raising the
overnight bank lending rate, Fed officials have said they may
use tools including reverse repos to withdraw or neutralize cash
in the banking system.  In a reverse repo, the Fed lends securities for a set
period, temporarily draining cash from the banking system. At
maturity, the securities are returned to the Fed, and the cash
to its counterparties.  To contact the reporters; on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  