-- Finra Seeks Order Against John Carris for Stock Sales
-- B y   K e r i   G e i g e r
-- 2013-09-30T21:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/finra-seeks-order-against-john-carris-for-stock-sales.html
Wall Street’s self-funded regulator
is seeking an order to stop  John Carris Investments LLC  and its
founder from selling stock in Fibrocell Science Inc. without
proper disclosures.  John Carris “fraudulently solicited its customers” to buy
Fibrocell shares in May without telling them that Chief
Executive Officer George Carris and another principal were
selling their holdings in the biotechnology company, the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said today in a
statement.  Fibrocell, (FCSC)  an Exton, Pennsylvania-based cell therapy
research firm, completed a $45.1 million public offering last
week.  Finra also issued an amended complaint alleging that the
New York-based securities firm and CEO Carris “artificially
inflated” Fibrocell’s stock price by engaging in pre-arranged
trading and making unauthorized purchases from customers’
accounts.  George Carris and the firm also fraudulently sold stock in
Carris’s parent company, Invictus Capital Inc., without
disclosing its financial condition and paid dividends to early
investors “with funds contributed by new investors in a Ponzi-like manner,” Finra said. John Carris continues to solicit
backers for Invictus, Finra said, describing the investment as
“wholly unsuitable.”  Tattoo Expenses  The securities firm also paid personal expenses for George
Carris, including tattoos, pet care and a motorcycle, without
properly reporting them, and failed to remit “hundreds of
thousands of dollars” in employee payroll taxes to the
government, Finra said.  Messages left for John Carris Investments and its CEO
seeking comment weren’t immediately returned. A Fibrocell
spokesman declined to comment.  Fibrocell  rose  2.8 percent to close at $4.38 in  New York .
The shares have gained 17 percent this year, compared with the
26 percent advance of the Russell 2000 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keri Geiger in New York at 
 kgeiger4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  