-- Fried Chicken-Backed Bonds Not Enough for Correa: Andes Credit
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2013-09-30T17:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/fried-chicken-backed-bonds-not-enough-for-correa-andes-credit.html
Fried-chicken sales aren’t enough
to back bonds in Ecuador President  Rafael Correa ’s local  debt
market .  Correa, 50, is proposing  legislation  that would prohibit
the sales of securitized debt if the bond isn’t backed by a hard
asset such as a factory, part of his effort to boost trading and
reduce borrowing costs in the nation’s $3.6 billion corporate
debt market. INT Food Services Corp., the operator of restaurant
franchises including KFC and Cinnabon in Ecuador, sold $20
million of bonds backed by future cash flows from local
restaurants in 2012, an offering that would be banned if
Correa’s bill becomes law.  The new regulations would further depress a market that’s
on pace for its slowest year of offerings since 2007, according
to Quito-based brokerage Analytica Securities. Asset-backed
deals last year accounted for about 19 percent of sales in
 Ecuador ’s local bond market, which is about 16 times smaller
than  Brazil ’s. That’s more than a 50 percent increase since
2008.  “What they’re doing would increase costs and impede the
market’s fast and orderly growth,” Ramiro Crespo, head of
Analytica Securities, said in a telephone interview from Quito.
“This could hurt the sale of corporate debt.”  The press offices of Ecuador’s Communication Secretariat
and the Economic Policy Ministry didn’t reply to e-mailed
requests for comment on the proposed law.  ‘Classic Tool’  The proposed legislation would also require the country’s
two securities exchanges, where the selling and buying of bonds
accounts for more than 95 percent of all trading, to convert
into for-profit entities and creates a regulatory framework
under which financial firms could set up investment banks and
mutual funds.  “While the  securities market  has been seen as a classic
tool of capitalism and of large economic groups, as also happens
in our country, this market could be an ideal mechanism to
democratize companies’ property,” Correa, a self-described
socialist revolutionary, said in a letter to congress
accompanying the bill on April 5. “The exchange market is a
very important segment of the economy of a nation.”  Correa called bond investors “true monsters” when he
defaulted in 2008.  Debt sales in Ecuador’s local markets fell 9 percent to
$2.29 billion in the year through August from the same period in
2012, according to data from the Quito securities exchange.
Total debt trading on the nation’s two exchanges may fall about
5 percent this year from $3.6 billion last year, according to
Ismael Velez, the chief executive officer of Pichincha Casa de
Valores SA, Ecuador’s biggest brokerage.  ‘Practically Unviable’  If the government proposal to increase debt guarantees is
approved, the cost to securitize future flows may be so
expensive that companies will turn to direct bank loans instead,
he said.  “Additional guarantees would increase the product and the
process so much that it would become practically unviable,”
Velez said in a telephone interview from  Quito . “It would be
cheaper to go to the bank.”  Trading on Ecuador’s two securities exchanges has suffered
since 2009 as Correa, who defaulted on $3.2 billion of the
country’s international bonds four years ago, tapped the
government-controlled pension fund, the nation’s biggest
investor, to finance public spending. The government also forced
banks to divest their investment funds in 2012, leading to a
loss of about $800 million from trading pools, Velez said.  Grupo KFC  Grupo KFC, as INT Food Services is known, has tapped into
demand for fried chicken, Ecuadorean’s favorite fast-food dish,
to fund an expansion of its chain of restaurants in the Latin
American country.  The company set up a trust funded by future sales from 15
restaurants to guarantee the debt, according to the company’s
bond prospectus published on the Quito securities exchange’s
 website . The bonds, sold in three parts, had maturities of four,
five and six years and pay interest rates of 7.25 percent, 7.75
percent and 8 percent, respectively, according to the
prospectus.  Grupo KFC didn’t reply to telephone and e-mailed messages
seeking comment on the proposed law.  Monica Villagomez, the chairwoman of the  Bolsa de Valores
de Quito , said the government’s proposal to eliminate taxes on
securities held longer than one year would help attract new
investment while measures to make it easier for medium-size and
small companies to raise financing on the exchanges would
increase the number of companies trading on the bourses.  Strengthens Guarantees  “In general terms, we welcome this, but there are some
areas that we’re calling ‘opportunities for improvement,’”
Villagomez said in an interview broadcast on Sept. 25 by Radio
Quito. “There are tax benefits that would help the market.”  Diego Lavalle, the chief executive officer of brokerage
 Mercapital Casa de Valores SA , said the new rules requiring
additional guarantees for selling asset-backed securities are
positive because they will help prevent companies from borrowing
more than they are capable of repaying.  “The government is looking to lower the risk in the
market,” Lavalle said in a telephone interview from Quito.
“The law strengthens guarantees for investors just in case
future flows don’t come.”  The average yield on corporate bonds sold in Ecuador’s
local markets is 7.85 percent this year, up from 7.76 percent in
2012, according to  data  from the Quito securities exchange.  ‘Very Optimistic’  The extra yield investors demand to own Ecuador’s dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 626 basis points as of 12:16 p.m. in Quito,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Correa’s Alianza Pais political party has a super majority
capable of passing legislation without opposition support in the
country’s congress, meaning the odds are high that he will push
through his bond-market reforms, Analytica’s Crespo said.  “I’m not very optimistic,” Crespo said. “There’s too
much concern to ensure that there are no defaults. They’re
trying to take the risk out of the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  