-- Gibraltar Seen as Europe-Beater for Finance Professionals
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-10-01T12:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/gilbraltar-seen-as-europe-beater-for-finance-professional.html
Gibraltar , the 300-year-old U.K.
territory near the southern tip of  Spain , is attracting  hedge
funds  by offering low tax rates and regulation that enables
managers to market investments across the European Union.  The number of funds in Gibraltar more than quadrupled to at
least 200 in 2012 from four years earlier, according to the
 Financial Services Commission , which supervises the industry.
Many of them are run by traders who previously worked in London
and Zurich at investment banks such as BNP Paribas SA, UBS AG
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Gibraltar has been quite successful in attracting fund
managers because of the regulatory and tax regime,” said Joseph
Caruana, who heads the Gibraltar office of  Deloitte & Touche , an
accounting and business advisory firm. “Affluent people are
looking for somewhere they’re going to be welcomed and not
heavily taxed.”  Gibraltar surfaced as a hub for traders and fund managers
after introducing a  regulatory regime  in 2005. The enclave
approves new funds more quickly than London and it offers
“seamless communications between the industry, regulator and
government,” according to the  Gibraltar Funds & Investments
Association . Local laws mirror EU rules, allowing managers to
market funds across borders within the 28-country bloc, a
process known as “passporting.”  The number of financial-industry jobs in Gibraltar climbed
37 percent to 3,175 since 2005, according to a government
survey. Total jobs in the enclave increased 28 percent to 21,519
over the same seven-year period through 2012.  Lower Taxes  The creation of that regulatory regime helped attract
traders fed up with  London  after the U.K. introduced a 50
percent tax rate for top earners in 2010, which was later rolled
back to 45 percent. Businesses in Gibraltar are generally taxed
at 10 percent of profits, compared with a corporate tax rate of
23 percent in London, and the government doesn’t tax income
accrued or derived outside the territory. Gibraltar also limited
the amount of income subject to tax to lure hedge-fund managers
from established financial centers.  The recruitment of fund managers, as well as insurers and
gaming companies, is helping to diversify Gibraltar’s economy
from the offshore banking and non-resident shell-company
registration that led the Paris-based  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  to label it a tax haven in 2000.
Gibraltar was taken off the OECD’s list of tax havens in 2009.  The influx is also helping Gibraltar’s attempts to catch up
with other low-tax EU fund centers such as Malta, a group of
Mediterranean islands.  Chasing Malta  The net value of investment funds administered in Gibraltar
climbed 11-fold to 2.4 billion pounds ($3.9 billion) at the end
of December from 212 million pounds in 2006, according to the
regulator, known as the FSC. Malta, with a population 14 times
Gibraltar’s 30,000, had 482 funds overseeing 9.7 billion euros
($13.1 billion) at the end of 2012, according to the  Malta
Financial Services Authority.  That compared with 156 funds with
4.9 billion euros in 2005.  Only 2.6 square miles, Gibraltar is a little more than
twice the size of the  City of London ,  Europe ’s financial
capital. Hedge-fund managers, private bankers and regulators are
within a 15 minute walk of one another. Schooling in English and
more than 300 sunny days a year add to the appeal of the
territory that’s known as The Rock after its 426-meter (1,400
feet) high limestone promontory.  ‘Safe Environment’  “Quality of life is very good down here,” Andrew McGrath,
37, founder and chief investment officer of Burren Capital
Advisors Ltd., said in an interview at his offices above
O’Reilly’s Irish Bar, where traders mix with British tourists
over fish and chips washed down with San Miguel beer. “It’s a
safe environment to bring up a family. Our offices are just
minutes from an airport with good international links.”  While Burren Capital declined to comment on assets for this
article, a March  filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission showed the firm oversaw about $250 million.  The three-century-old dispute with Spain over Gibraltar’s
sovereignty as a British overseas territory has been heating up,
prompting the EU to organize a mission of officials to
investigate delays caused by Spanish police checks on vehicles
crossing the border. U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said on
Aug. 30 that the delays were damaging the economies of Spain and
Gibraltar and were “unacceptable.”  Tax Breaks  Spain objected to Gibraltar’s July decision to build a reef
in waters near the local airport runway that doubles as the main
auto route off the peninsula when planes aren’t landing or
taking off. That obstructed access to a shell-fishing area for
Spanish boats, Spain said.  The spat isn’t directly affecting the financial-services
community, according to McGrath, who left BNP Paribas in London
and moved to Gibraltar three years ago. McGrath said the
enclave’s regulatory regime underpinned by  English law  was the
main reason to pick The Rock over  Switzerland , Monaco or the
 Channel Islands .  The allure of lower taxes helped Gibraltar’s appeal.  Burren
Capital ’s traders benefit from a special fiscal status for
“high executives possessing special skills,” which means they
won’t usually pay more than 30,000 pounds a year in personal
employment and dividend income tax, provided they fulfill
criteria as expatriates earning more than 100,000 pounds and
owning or renting a residence in Gibraltar.  Tax Agreements  McGrath recruited Martin Patterson to join from Trafalgar
Asset Management Ltd. and Peter Germonpre from Sandell Asset
Management in London to help run his global arbitrage fund,
which trades around developed-market corporate events such as
mergers and acquisitions.  Gibraltar, whose economy was once reliant on the British
military and on secret bank accounts and companies that couldn’t
be traced from abroad, has made new tax information exchange
arrangements with 39 countries and worked to attract funds,
insurers and gaming firms such as  Bwin.Party Digital
Entertainment Plc (BPTY) , the largest publicly traded provider of
online gambling services.  “The old business model doesn’t work anymore,” said James
Tipping, director of the Finance Centre Department. “ Tax
evasion  is a crime.”  Hedge-fund companies including  Taler Asset Management Ltd. 
and  Huber & Co. Ltd.  say EU passporting is already an advantage
of being based in Gibraltar as new legislation impedes access
for fund managers outside the bloc.  Dutchmen Philip Van Den Berg and Ron Westdorp both worked
at Goldman Sachs before relocating to Gibraltar from London to
set up Taler in 2006. Gibraltar-based Huber & Co. counts Swiss
bankers including Ralf Huber among its managers.  EU ‘Nightmare’  Andrew Rochford, a 34-year-old hedge-fund manager who set
up Calderon Fund PCC Ltd. and moved to Gibraltar this year from
Switzerland, said he expects the number of money managers to
increase “very quickly” as the “nightmare” of the new EU
directive on alternative investment managers kicks in for Swiss
traders.  Swiss firms, as non-EU managers, face additional
requirements under the new European regime and may not receive
permission to distribute services to markets such as London and
 Frankfurt  until 2015, two years after competitors inside the
bloc can be approved, according to Joey Garcia, a lawyer at
Isolas in Gibraltar.  “The question is always: how much overhead are you
producing due to regulation,” Rochford said. “If a Swiss
manager wants to distribute into the EU, he needs a solution:
one is Liechtenstein, another is Gibraltar.”  Mediterranean Beach  The appeal of sunshine -- it’s possible to ski at Sierra
Nevada, Europe’s most southerly ski area 2 ½ hours drive away in
Spain, and be on a Mediterranean beach by the afternoon --
hasn’t been lost on Arnulf Metzger, a 33-year-old former analyst
at UBS in Zurich, who co-manages Calderon’s 5.7 million-euro
 hedge fund  that’s gained 15 percent a year since 2010. He plans
to leave Switzerland by next summer.  Gibraltar’s government remains determined to attract more
fund managers and promote the peninsula as “an onshore
jurisdiction with strong regulation,” Finance Minister Albert Isola said in an interview, adding that he supports a plan to
create a stock exchange where funds can be listed.  Tipping, the finance-department official, said there is a
limit to the influx of traders in such a small place.  “I don’t expect a large hedge fund with 90 people to move
from London,” he said. “What’s more realistic is they have 20
traders working for them and three or four will want to benefit
from higher quality of life and low tax and move to Gibraltar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  