-- Global Cancer Fund Needed to Fight Surging Cases in Poor Nations
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-09-30T10:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/global-cancer-fund-needed-to-fight-surging-cases-in-poor-nations.html
A global fund is needed to curb
ballooning cancer rates in poor nations, where malignancies
already kill more people than AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria
combined, according to a report by a coalition of researchers.  Progress against infectious diseases, aided by
organizations such as the  Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria , has helped extend  life expectancy . As
people live longer, other illnesses such as cancer are more
likely to develop. In sub-Saharan  Africa , the number of new
cancer cases will double in the next 15 years, straining medical
systems there, the researchers said at the European Cancer
Congress in Amsterdam today.  Cancer is already the biggest drain on the global economy,
and costs $895 billion a year in lost productivity alone, the
 American Cancer Society   estimated  in 2010. By 2030, there will
be about 26 million new cases of cancer a year worldwide,
compared with 12.7 million in 2008, and most new cases will be
in developing nations, according to a 500-page  report  presented
by the researchers.  “The big problem is that in the low-resource countries,
patients present with advanced disease,” said Peter Boyle, who
led the coalition and is president of the  International
Prevention Research Institute  in Lyon,  France . “The case
fatality rate is very, very high, and we’re not in a position to
do anything about that because we haven’t got our act
together.”  Infectious Killers  Detecting, treating and preventing cancer in  developing
countries  will need a global financing partnership similar to
the Geneva-based Global Fund, which has helped combat the
world’s three biggest infectious killers since it was created in
2002, Boyle said.  While that fund has received about $28 billion in
contributions, mainly from governments, fighting cancer will
require a far bigger financial commitment that should be led by
the health-care industry, Boyle said. Reducing cancer fatality
rates in poor countries to the same level as rich countries
would cost an extra $217 billion a year, the Economist
Intelligence Unit  estimated  in 2009.  “There’s no single source of philanthropy, there’s no
government, there’s no company, there’s no single institution
that can afford that sort of investment,” Boyle said. “New
models are necessary to cope with this situation and the
situation to come.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  