-- Goldilocks Method for Wines: Avoid Extreme Temperatures
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2013-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/goldilocks-method-for-wines-avoid-extreme-temperatures.html
I have drunk enough 80-degree (26.7
centigrade) red wines in overheated  New York  apartments and
enough ice cold, headache-inducing whites to know how misguided
people can be about wine temperatures.  The most common fallacies are that red wines should be
served at room temperature and white wines stuck in an ice
bucket for an hour. Wines at those extremes will be robbed of
their flavor and nuance. Like Goldilocks’s porridge, wines
should be served at an optimal temperature.  Ever since wine making began about 7,000 years ago, we have
looked for ways to prolong its flavor and soundness. The nomadic
Israelites carried their un-aged wine across the desert in
animal skins.  Ancient Mediterraneans aged their wines in thick pottery
jugs called amphoras by the Greeks, stored at constant
temperatures in cool underground stone cellars.  That basic principle still applies today, says Bernard
Erpicum, manager and sommelier at Public House in  Las Vegas . “A
wine cellar in Paris,  London  or Brussels is usually located in
the basement and year round remains at an ideal temperature of
about 55, perfect for proper aging.  Every 10 degrees over that will double the aging process,
without the benefit of slow, proper aging. All finesse will
disappear.”  Avoid Extremes  Red wines age faster at higher temperatures but may develop
chemical compounds that give them flabby, cooked or jam-like
flavors. White wines near freezing develop high deposits of
white tartrates, harmless and tasteless though wholly
unappealing in a wine bottle.  Public House wines are stored in a temperature-controlled
glass wine cellar and bottles brought upstairs to the dining
room as they are ordered. Pinot noir is served at 58 to 60
degrees;  cabernet sauvignon  and merlot at 65 degrees; an oaky
California chablis or chardonnay will be chilled in an ice
bucket to 50; a white wine with less oak, closer to 45 degrees.
Champagne and sparkling wine will be poured at 40 degrees.  Even among connoisseurs, personal tastes may vary widely:
the late Baron Philippe de Rothschild of Chateau Mouton-Rothschild preferred his sauternes with ice crystals in the
bottle, and for some, an icy rose can be just the ticket at the
beach in St. Tropez or  East Hampton .  Perfect Provenance  However well-aged red and white wines need a good deal more
care, something to keep in mind if you’re bidding on rare wines
at auction.  “The best case scenario for wines kept in pristine
conditions is consignments directly from the chateau or winery
and have never budged from their temperature-controlled
climate,” says Peter Meltzer, author of “Keys to the Cellar:
Strategies and Secrets of Wine Collecting.”  The next best source is sellers who purchased wines as
futures or immediately upon release, and kept them in
temperature controlled or professional wine storage, he says.  The Wine Cellarage , founded by former Wall Street banker
Lars Neubohn, will transport wines to its 22,000-square-foot-facility in the Bronx, New York from anywhere in the U.S., for
$30 to $100 a case, depending on distance and quantity.  Upscale restaurants usually have some kind of refrigerated
wine units, often with hundreds of bottles arrayed.  Benoit Bistro  At Benoit Bistro in New York, Chef sommelier Andre Compeyre
keeps his cellar’s red wines at 62 degrees. “It’s not too cold
and not too warm,” he says, “so when I bring a bottle to the
table it is ready to drunk right away.”  He also has two
refrigerators at the bar for wines by the glass.  Still, many Americans complain their white wines are too
warm. “Unfortunately some guests want their white wine ice
cold. I feel more comfortable with whites at 50 degrees,
although champagne is best at 40.”  If a restaurant serves its red wine too warm, it is often a
telltale sign of negligence and improper storage. If so, ask the
captain or waiter to stick the bottle in an ice bucket for five
minutes.  If your bottle of white wine comes to your table in a
dripping ice bucket, that means it’s been sitting in ice too
long and will be bone-chillingly cold, so have your sommelier
remove it. The ideal time for wine to chill in ice is about 10
minutes, something to bear in mind if you don’t drink fast.  Private Cellar  The cost of converting your own cellar can range from
nominal to extravagant. In my house, the cellar’s natural
temperature never gets above 75 degrees in summer or below 55 in
winter, which is fine for most bottles.  I keep my expensive, long-aging wines in a refrigerated 50-bottle unit.  For an apartment unit that will fit into a closet, you can
easily find a 28-bottle thermoelectric chrome and glass unit for
under $300 by  Wine Enthusiast . Or for $4,700 you can install a
freestanding  EuroCave INOA Wine Cellar Conditioner  to keep any
room you like at 50 degrees and at the ideal humidity for a
wine.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Patrick Cole on philanthropy and a
book review by  Craig Seligman .  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 