-- Gold Fields Ownership Deal Probed by South African Police
-- B y   A n d r e   J a n s e   v a n   V u u r e n
-- 2013-09-30T12:07:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/gold-fields-ownership-deal-probed-by-south-african-police.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  is being
investigated by South African police on concern a transfer of
shares in 2010 benefited people who helped it obtain a license
for its largest mine.  The country’s anti-corruption police, known as the Hawks,
are probing the transaction after Gold Fields won a mining
permit for the South Deep project southwest of Johannesburg,
Paul Ramakolo, a spokesman for the unit, said today by phone.  “We don’t have a formal criminal case opened, but we are
looking into the transaction,” he said. “If there is anything
pointing towards wrongdoing we’ll follow the normal processes.”  In August 2010, Gold Fields agreed to issue 600,000 shares
to a black-owned group and allowed it to buy 10 percent of South
Deep, a 39 million-ounce gold mine. Local law requires mining
companies to sell or cede 26 percent of their operations to
black citizens. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is
also investigating the transaction, Gold Fields said Sept. 10.  Sven Lunsche, a spokesman for Johannesburg-based Gold
Fields, declined to comment when contacted by phone today. In
2012, the company denied a M-Net Television report that the deal
benefited people who helped it win a permit for the mine.  Gold Fields acted lawfully in transferring the shares,
Chairman Cheryl Carolus said Sept. 20 after South Africa’s Mail
& Guardian newspaper reported the company may have violated
anti-corruption laws.  “The board of Gold Fields received information from a
range of sources and advice from a number of legal and other
advisers, which collectively informed its decisions,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Janse van Vuuren in Johannesburg at 
 ajansevanvuu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  