-- Government Shutdown Nears as Senate Kicks Bill to House
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n ,   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-09-30T18:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/government-shutdown-nears-as-senate-kicks-bill-to-house.html
The deadlocked U.S. Congress headed
into the final hours before the first partial government
shutdown in 17 years without any signs of averting widespread
furloughs of government workers.  Republicans and Democrats remained at odds over whether to
tie any changes to the 2010 Affordable Care Act to a short-term
extension of government funding. The Senate voted 54-46 to
reject the House’s latest plan, in a party-line move that puts
the pressure back on House Republicans, who began meeting at 2
p.m. in the Capitol basement.  House Republicans are planning another volley that would
include a delay of the individual mandate to purchase health
insurance and eliminate government contributions to lawmakers’
health coverage, said a Republican leadership aide speaking on
the condition of anonymity.  President  Barack Obama  said he’s “not at all resigned” to
a shutdown and will speak with congressional leaders today.  “This is just blatant extortion,” said Jay Carney, the
White House press secretary.  Congress, which has stumbled to fiscal deadlines repeatedly
over the past three years, could still find an 11th-hour
compromise. Still, lawmakers didn’t sound optimistic about when
or how they could reach an agreement and few if any negotiations
were occurring.  “I don’t even know how to guess,” said Representative
James Lankford of  Oklahoma , chairman of the Republican Policy
Committee.  Stocks Fall  Concern that a shutdown would stunt economic growth sent
stocks lower, trimming the biggest quarterly gain since the
start of 2012, while Treasuries rallied and the Japanese yen
strengthened before a potential shutdown.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 fell 0.4 percent to 1,684.36 at
2:32 p.m. in New York. All 10 main industries in the S&P 500
dropped, with financial, telephone and energy shares falling the
most.  Crude oil traded near its lowest level in three months.
West Texas Intermediate oil fell as much as 1.8 percent.
Treasury 10-year note yields were little changed at 2.63 percent
at 12:07 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices.  In the Senate, Republican leaders were weighing a one-week
stopgap measure to keep the government operating, according to a
congressional aide. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said he
would oppose such a plan.  Obama’s Cabinet  Obama will meet with his cabinet today as agencies prepare
for a shutdown and he plans to reiterate to reporters that he
won’t give in to Republican demands over the health law,
according to an administration official who asked for anonymity
to discuss strategy. Hanging in the balance are 800,000 federal
workers who would be sent home if Congress fails to pass a
stopgap spending bill before funding expires tonight.  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, blamed Republicans for leading the
government to the brink of a shutdown. “We’ve done what we’re
going to do,” he said as he entered a party meeting this
afternoon.  The fallout in U.S. government services would be far-reaching: national parks and Internal Revenue Service call
centers probably would close. Those wanting to renew passports
would have to wait and the backlog of veterans’ disability
claims could increase.  Shutdown Politics  The political implications are much less clear. Democrats
are painting Republicans as obstructionists who are trying to
undo a law passed by Congress, upheld by the Supreme Court and
ratified by Obama’s re-election in 2012. Republicans say they
are trying to save Americans from the effects of the law, known
as Obamacare, and that Democrats won’t negotiate.  A Bloomberg National poll conducted Sept. 20-23 shows
Americans narrowly blame Republicans for what’s gone wrong in
Washington, just as they did when the government closed in 1995
and 1996 -- two of the 17 times U.S. funding stopped since 1977.
A CNN/ORC International poll conducted Sept. 27-29 and released
today said 46 percent of respondents would blame congressional
Republicans for a shutdown, while 36 percent would say the
president was responsible.  “There aren’t any Republicans talking about shutdown,”
Senator John Thune, a South Dakota Republican, told Bloomberg
Television’s  Peter Cook . “We want to fund the government.”  ‘Moment of Truth’  House Republicans said they’ll respond by again asking for
changes to Obamacare and spent yesterday trying to shift blame
for a shutdown to the Democrats.  In a government shutdown, essential operations and programs
with dedicated funding would continue. That includes mail
delivery, air-traffic control and Social Security payments.  A shutdown could reduce fourth-quarter economic growth by
as much as 1.4 percentage points, depending on its duration,
according to economists. The biggest effect would come from the
output lost from furloughed workers.  Greg Valliere, chief political analyst for Potomac Research
Group Holdings in Washington, told Bloomberg Television today
that “a shutdown is not the issue” because default is more
important.  “If we even talk about default, if we come within a day or
two of default, that’s a terribly negative story for the overall
economy,” he said.  Republican Rule  Because Republicans hold a majority of seats in the House,
they decide what goes into the bills that are brought up for a
vote. A faction that opposes compromise with the Democrats has
been pushing its leaders to keep fighting rather than bring a
bill to the floor that both parties could accept.  Earlier this month, Boehner and Majority Leader Eric Cantor
of  Virginia  initially supported a plan that would have let the
Senate send a bill without policy riders straight to Obama.  Now, without enough Republican support, the only way to
pass such a bill is with Democrats voting “yes.” That scenario
poses a risk for Republican leaders: If their decision angers a
large bloc of their membership, the next time the top jobs come
up for a vote they could could be pushed out.  That bloc of hard-liners could also stall other
legislation, including the need next month to raise the $16.7
trillion federal  debt ceiling .  ‘Won’t Succeed’  “This strategy won’t succeed,” Senator John McCain, an
 Arizona  Republican, told reporters at the Capitol. “We will not
repeal Obamacare, and sooner or later we will resume the
functions of government without a repeal of Obamacare and
without changing it.”  The House plan being considered by the Senate would
authorize 10 weeks of spending starting tomorrow only if much of
the health law is delayed for a year. While House Republicans
backed off defunding Obamacare in favor of delaying most of its
provisions, Democrats haven’t budged in their support for the
health law.  The latest House plan leaves intact some parts of the
health-care law already in effect, such as requirements that
insurers cover pre-existing conditions and that family plans
cover children to age 26.  The House added language that would let insurers deny
abortion coverage based on religious or moral objections. The
House measure also would delay a requirement for people to
purchase coverage or face a penalty, and postpone the creation
of marketplaces -- which are supposed to start functioning Oct.
1 -- where people could shop for coverage from private insurers.
Further, it would repeal the 2.3 percent medical device tax,
which would increase the U.S. deficit by about $29 billion
during the next decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  