-- Guangzhou Shipyard to Sell $364 Million Shares, Buy Yard
-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 2013-09-30T19:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/guangzhou-shipyard-to-sell-364-million-shares-buy-yard.html
Guangzhou Shipyard International Co. (317) ,
a unit of China’s biggest shipbuilder, plans to sell HK$2.82
billion ($364 million) of new shares and use some of the
proceeds to buy a yard from its parent and two partners.  The company will sell 387.5 million shares at HK$7.29 each
to China State Shipbuilding Corp., its parent, and to Baosteel
Group Corp. and China Shipping Group Co., according to a filing
to Hong Kong’s stock exchange yesterday.  Guangzhou Shipyard, based in the southern Chinese city,
will use 956 million  yuan  ($156 million) of the proceeds to buy
CSSC Guangzhou Longxue Shipbuilding Co., now owned 60 percent by
its parent, 30 percent by Baosteel and 10 percent by  China 
Shipping.  The purchase of Longxue will provide a relocation facility
for Guangzhou Shipyard, which is being forced out of its current
city-center location by the Guangzhou municipal government in
favor of residential and commercial development, according to
the filing. Longxue is the biggest builder of modern large
vessels in southern China, with an annual capacity of 3.5
million deadweight tons, and its yard can build bigger ships
than Guangzhou Shipyard’s current site.  Guangzhou Shipyard was halted from trading in Hong Kong
yesterday, pending the announcement. The stock will resume
trading tomorrow in Hong Kong and on Oct. 8 in  Shanghai , where
the market is closed for the weeklong National Day break.  In August, China issued a three-year plan to urge financial
institutions to support its troubled shipbuilding industry, the
world’s biggest. Ship owners placing orders for China-made
vessels, engines and some main parts should get better funding
and some key companies will be allowed to issue corporate bonds,
the State Council said in a statement released Aug. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in  New York  at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  