-- Li Keqiang Says China Can Reach its Economic Targets This Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-09-30T12:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/li-keqiang-says-china-can-reach-its-economic-targets-this-year.html
China  can meet its main economic
targets this year, Premier Li Keqiang said in a speech today.  “China’s economy is stabilizing in a good trend and the
nation has the confidence, conditions and ability to realize its
main economic targets this year,” Li was quoted by state media
China National Radio as saying. Li made the speech ahead of the
nation’s National Day weeklong holiday.  Li and other leaders of the Communist Party are expected to
meet in November to set the direction for economic policy in
coming years. Li has signaled he wants to reduce the state’s
hand in the economy and financial system, with the government
experimenting with more relaxed controls in a free-trade zone in
 Shanghai .  China yesterday inaugurated an 11-square-mile experiment in
Shanghai, where it would allow trials of  yuan  convertibility in
capital flows, establish an international energy center, and
allow overseas parents of companies established in the zone to
sell yuan-denominated debt in China.  Companies with the word Shanghai in their name led Chinese
shares to their best quarterly advance in three years on
speculation they will benefit from further reforms.  “China will deepen and speed up reforms by stimulating
market activities and developing social creativity, ” Li said
in today’s speech.  A Chinese manufacturing index released today rose less than
analysts forecast, unexpectedly weakening from a preliminary
estimate in a result that casts doubt on the strength of the
economy’s rebound. At a speech in Dalian earlier this month, Li
said the foundations of an economic recovery aren’t solid.  The economy probably grew 7.7 percent in the third quarter,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey this
month, up from an estimate of 7.5 percent in August. Growth
cooled in the first and second quarters.  The government, which is targeting a 7.5 percent economic
growth expansion, has chosen not to expand the fiscal deficit
and will continue with a steady monetary policy, Li said Sept.
24.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Sarah Chen in Beijing at 
 schen514@bloomberg.net ;
Hwee Ann Tan in Hong Kong at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  