-- IMF Says Domestic Investors Can Curb Capital Flow Volatility
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2013-09-30T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/imf-says-domestic-investors-can-curb-capital-flow-volatility.html
Emerging markets  can better resist
capital flow volatility by taking measures to encourage their
residents to invest abroad in good times and repatriate the
funds when needed, according to a study by the  International
Monetary Fund .  Countries where a surge of capital inflows was offset by
domestic residents’ purchase of foreign assets fared better
during the global financial crisis as international investors
pulled out, the IMF said in a chapter of its World Economic
Outlook released today. That showed policy makers have other
options than  capital controls  or currency interventions, it
said.  The fund’s advice comes as countries from  India  to
Indonesia brace for weaker capital flows once the U.S. Federal
Reserve phases out its monetary stimulus. The Fed’s surprise
decision earlier this month not to pare its $85 billion in
monthly asset buying for now is leaving these nations time to
address domestic economic fragilities.  During the 2008 turmoil “while some countries experienced
the classical boom-and-bust cycle in response to volatile
international capital flows, many did not,” the IMF wrote in
the study called “The Yin and Yang of Capital Flow Management:
Balancing Capital Inflows with Capital Outflows.”  Foreign Assets  “Rather, as international capital flows dried up, domestic
residents stepped in to replace them by drawing down their own
foreign assets,” according to the IMF.  Today’s report focused on  Chile ,  Malaysia (MACATOT)  and the  Czech
Republic , showing how they learned from past crises to adopt new
policies enabling what the report called “stabilizing financial
adjustment.”  In Chile, private pension funds, which hold about 40 of
their assets abroad, repatriated some during the global turmoil,
helping offset the reduction in foreign investors’ inflows,
according to the report. In  Malaysia , bond markets remained
stable thanks to purchases by well-capitalized institutional
investors, it said.  Common features of resilient countries include credible
fiscal and monetary policies and financial regulation that
limits excessive risk taking, according to the report.  An open capital account enabling residents to move money in
and out of the country and a flexible exchange rate regime also
play a positive role, it said.  Heavily Managed  “A heavily managed exchange rate, on the other hand, may
undermine residents’ incentives to reduce outflows during sudden
stops, because an anticipated depreciation creates very strong
incentives to send assets offshore, thereby exacerbating capital
flow volatility,” the IMF said.  In a separate chapter, the IMF said that countries’ outputs
were the most synchronized since World War II during the 2008
turmoil.  “Spikes in regional and global output correlations tend to
occur during financial crises, but when the crisis occurs in an
economy like the  United States  -- which is both large and a
global financial hub -- the effects on global output
synchronization are disproportionately large,” according to the
report.  While the correlation has now returned to pre-crisis
levels, “a large financial shock could again induce the world’s
economies to rise and fall in tandem,” according to the fund.  A global financial institution could still fail as progress
on making the system safer is yet incomplete, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  