-- Lincoln National Hires Janney’s Holinsky for Compliance
-- B y   M a r c i   J a c o b s
-- 2013-09-30T18:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/lincoln-national-hires-janney-s-holinsky-for-compliance.html
Lincoln National Corp. (LNC) , the insurer
whose stock surged more than 60 percent this year, hired Ronald
Holinsky from Janney Montgomery Scott LLC to be chief compliance
officer as the industry faces increased regulatory scrutiny.  Holinsky will oversee companywide compliance programs in
the newly created role and report to General Counsel Adam Ciongoli and James DelBello, senior vice president of business
law and compliance, Lincoln said in a statement today. A lawyer
who previously worked for the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, he was deputy general counsel at Philadelphia-based
Janney and chief legal officer for its asset-management unit.  “Ron has a rich regulatory compliance background that is
focused on the financial services industry, in addition to a
deep understanding of the many securities laws and regulations
that affect our business,” DelBello said in Radnor,
Pennsylvania-based Lincoln’s statement.  The federal role in insurance regulation has been expanding
under the 2010 Dodd-Frank law. U.S. insurers are traditionally
overseen by state regulators. Lincoln is among insurers being
pressed by New York’s watchdog,  Benjamin Lawsky , to boost
reserves at units in the state, a person familiar with the
matter said this month. Lincoln said Sept. 13 that it doesn’t
expect Lawsky’s approach to affect the insurer’s capital plan.  Holinsky previously practiced law with K&L Gates LLP
in  Washington . He has a bachelor’s degree in business
administration and finance from  West Virginia University  and a
law degree from University of Baltimore. Karen Shakoske, a
spokeswoman with Janney, didn’t immediately respond to requests
for comment.  Lincoln slipped 4 cents to $42.11 at 2:38 p.m. in New York.
The insurer has rallied 63 percent since Dec. 31 as investors
bet higher  interest rates  will boost results in the company’s
bond portfolio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marci Jacobs in  New York  at 
 mjacobs63@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  