-- India 10-Year Bonds Set for Fourth Monthly Loss on Rate Surprise
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-09-30T05:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/india-10-year-bonds-set-for-fourth-monthly-loss-on-rate-surprise.html
India ’s 10-year bonds headed for a
fourth month of losses, the longest run since 2009, after the
central bank unexpectedly boosted its benchmark  interest rate .  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Raghuram Rajan raised the
 repurchase rate  to 7.5 percent from 7.25 percent on Sept. 20, a
decision predicted by none of 36 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The move came after official data showed  wholesale prices  
accelerated to a six-month high of 6.1 percent in August. “We
want to fight against inflation,” Rajan said in Mumbai after
the rate decision, adding the goal is to slow the pace of gains
to below 5 percent.  The yield on the 7.16 percent sovereign bonds due May 2023
rose eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, this month to
8.69 percent, as of 10:06 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices
from the central bank’s trading system. The rate fell two basis
points today and advanced 124 basis points this quarter.  “There will be a little bit more pain as the central bank
has linked rate action to inflation, which looks to have an
upward bias,” said Harihar Krishnamoorthy, treasurer at the
Indian unit of FirstRand Ltd. in Mumbai. “Markets are pinning
their hope more on liquidity coming in.”  The central bank said last week it will take steps as
required to ensure adequate cash supply in the financial system.
The RBI is injecting about 1.5 trillion rupees ($24 billion)
into markets every day via money-market operations and export-credit refinance, it said in a statement on Sept. 25.  Currency Volatility  The assurance on the cash supply “should be a near-term
respite, while monetary policy bias and forex volatility
continue to be sources of concern,” Barclays Plc analysts
including Mumbai-based Siddhartha Sanyal wrote in a report last
week.  One-month implied volatility in the rupee, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, is
15.16 percent, the highest among Asian currencies after
 Indonesia ’s rupiah, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The rupee
climbed 4.8 percent against the dollar this month, the most in a
year.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , derivative contracts used to
guard against fluctuations in funding costs, slumped 83 basis
points this month to 8.75 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate was unchanged today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  