-- Indian Court Finds Singh Ally Guilty in 17-Year-Old Graft Case
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-09-30T11:42:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/indian-court-finds-singh-ally-guilty-in-17-year-old-graft-case.html
An Indian court found politician
Lalu Prasad, an ally of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , guilty of
embezzlement in a 17-year-old graft case that may redraw
alliances before national elections due by May.  The court in the eastern state of Jharkhand also found more
than 40 others, including politicians and bureaucrats, guilty of
fraudulently withdrawing about 377 million rupees ($6 million)
through fake bills from the state treasury,  Press Trust of India 
reported. The money was meant for purchasing cattle fodder.  Singh’s party is now moving to drop Prasad, whose party
controls four seats in the 545-strong lower house, and woo his
rival Nitish Kumar, Bihar’s chief minister who leads a party
with 20 seats. Polls show neither Singh’s Congress or the main
opposition  Bharatiya Janata Party  winning a majority, increasing
the importance of smaller regional parties.  “Congress party won’t be interested to continue the
alliance” with Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal party, said  Sanjay
Kumar , a New Delhi-based analyst at the  Centre for the Study of
Developing Societies . “It’s a blow to Prasad and his party is
finished for some years.”  Prasad may be first politician to lose his seat in
parliament after the nation’s  Supreme Court  in a July ruling
disqualified lawmakers convicted of crimes carrying jail terms
of two years or more.  Gandhi Criticism  Singh’s cabinet issued an executive order on Sept. 24 to
reverse the court’s ruling, a decision that was criticized last
week by  Rahul Gandhi , the scion of the Gandhi family and a
deputy leader of the Congress party. The ordinance has yet to be
ratified by President  Pranab Mukherjee .  While Prasad’s party isn’t formally part of the ruling
coalition, it has backed Singh on key legislation and decisions
such as allowing Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Tesco Plc to open
supermarkets. Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) severed ties with the
BJP in June.  The court in Jharkhand, which was a part of Bihar until
November 2000 when the state was bifurcated, will pronounce the
sentencing on Oct. 3, PTI reported. Prasad was taken to Birsa
Munda Central Jail in Ranchi, the  news agency  said.  Prasad, 65, has denied all charges of corruption against
him. The former railways minister between 2004 and 2009 in
Singh’s cabinet is known for his folksy humor, quirky style and
mass appeal.  Prasad’s RJD, which ruled Bihar for 15 years, campaigns for
the empowerment of lower-caste Hindus and the minority Muslim
community. Prasad resigned as the state’s chief minister in 1997
over the graft case and appointed his wife, Rabri Devi, in his
place.  Appeal Planned  “Some forces are conspiring to implicate our leader,”
Tejashwi Yadav, Prasad’s son, told reporters outside the court,
adding he will appeal the verdict. “We will go to the people’s
court. We will fight it out.”  About a quarter of federal and state legislators face
charges that include murder, rape and kidnapping, according to
the Association for Democratic Reforms, which has campaigned for
better governance since 1999. The number of lawmakers charged
with offenses has more than doubled in the last 15 years.  “It’s a judgment for Bihar,” said Rajiv Pratap Rudy, a
BJP leader. “It’s a justice day for the country against corrupt
politicians.”  Congress spokesman Ajay Maken said his party won’t comment
on a judicial process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Niveditha Ravi at 
 nravi2@bloomberg.net  