-- Intel Targets Share of $5 Billion Smart-Grid Market
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-09-30T16:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/intel-targets-share-of-5-billion-smart-grid-market.html
Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest
chipmaker, plans to expand in the global smart-grid market
following a jump in demand for energy-saving technologies.  Intel intends to take a “significant chunk” of the market
for smart-grid microprocessors, which may surpass $5 billion in
annual sales by the end of the decade, said Hannes Schwaderer,
Intel’s director of energy in Europe,  Middle East  and Africa.  Smart grids allow power generators and users to monitor
usage, helping utilities adjust supply to consumption and
reducing costs by saving energy in transmission. Demand for the
technology has grown as countries boost renewables output,
overloading traditional networks when production peaks.  “There’s a lot happening in smart-grid development,”
Schwaderer said in a telephone interview. “There is a big
momentum, there is a big need in the industry and there’s a big
opportunity for Intel to sell more chips. That’s why we’re in.”  The company, based in  Santa Clara , California, is already
forging partnerships to tap the market. It has agreed with
France’s  Alstom SA (ALO)  to cooperate on smart grids and is working
with Germany’s EON SE on better integration of renewables on the
country’s transmission network.  Fellow Californian manufacturer  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and
Armonk, New York-based International Business Machines Corp. are
also seeking to expand in the smart-energy networks industry.  “It’s not a market where Intel is operating in isolation,
there is a lot of competition out there,” Schwaderer said.
“But what we have on our road map for microprocessors can
address a significant chunk of that.”  European nations in particular will drive growth in the
industry as Germany and the U.K. bolster renewable generation to
meet climate-change targets, he said. The  International Energy
Agency  says $38 trillion of investment in energy-supply
infrastructure is needed by 2035 to meet increasing demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net  