-- Iron Ore Exports From India Seen Plunging on Taxes, Mining Ban
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-09-30T10:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/iron-ore-exports-from-india-seen-plunging-on-taxes-mining-ban.html
Iron ore  shipments from  India  are
poised to tumble for a fourth year as government curbs on mining
reduce supplies and higher export taxes prompt buyers to secure
the steelmaking raw material from other producers.  Exports will probably fall by about 50 percent in the 12
months through March from 18 million metric tons a year earlier,
said Hukam Chand Daga, president of the Federation of Indian
Mineral Industries. A tax of 30 percent and waning availability
have made exports almost unprofitable, he said.  Shipments to countries, including  China , India’s biggest
buyer, plunged after mining and transport in the western state
of Goa, the top producer, was stalled by the nation’s  Supreme
Court  in October last year pending probe into violations of
norms. There was no case to lower taxes on exports, Finance
Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said on Sept. 27, two months
after Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said the government was
trying to remove constraints in shipments.  “High taxes and railway freight coupled with court-ordered
bans on mining have cut output and made us unviable in the
international market,” said Daga, who is also an adviser to
Essel Mining & Industries Ltd., an ore producer owned
billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla. “With tax cuts, the shipments
could have crossed last year’s figure.”  India is considering reducing taxes on some exports to
boost shipments and help reverse a decline in the local
currency, two government officials with direct knowledge of the
matter said last month. Taxes on exports of low-grade fines may
be cut to 20 percent from 30 percent, they said.  The rupee has rebounded 9.8 percent from a record low of
68.845 per dollar touched Aug. 28 after the U.S. Federal Reserve
said Sept. 18 it will continue $85 billion a month of bond
purchases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  