-- Italian Bonds Trim Drop Amid Speculation Letta Can Survive Vote
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-09-30T16:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/italian-bonds-decline-a-third-day-as-letta-faces-confidence-vote.html
Italy’s 10-year bonds pared a third
day of losses amid speculation Prime Minister Enrico Letta can
survive a confidence vote following Silvio Berlusconi’s
withdrawal of support for his administration.  The yield on the securities dropped from the highest level
in more than three months as Reuters reported as many as 20
senators were prepared to leave Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
party if he doesn’t back down. The bonds earlier slumped as
Letta defied the former premier’s attempt to force new
elections, saying he would request the vote for Oct. 2. German
10-year bonds declined.  “It seems as though there’s a chance that Berlusconi has
maybe overstepped on this one,” said Owen Callan, an analyst at
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Dublin. “There’s been some rumors that his
party is moving against him if he doesn’t back down. There’s
been a reassessment of the politics on the ground and a view
that Letta may be able to pass this confidence vote. That’s why
we’ve seen a rebound.”  Italy’s  10-year yield  climbed one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 4.43 percent at 4:54 p.m. London time after
touching 4.66 percent, the highest level since June 27. The rate
reached a euro-era record 7.48 percent in November 2011. The 4.5
percent bond maturing in May 2023 fell 0.105, or 1.05 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,354) face amount, to 100.905.  Letta needs 24 votes in the Senate to secure a new majority
without Berlusconi,  Corriere Della Sera  reported. To do so, the
47-year-old premier must win over opposition lawmakers or get
members of Berlusconi’s party to abandon their leader.  Snap Elections  Letta’s plan to appeal to lawmakers won an endorsement
yesterday from President Giorgio Napolitano, who is responsible
for calling snap elections if parliament is deadlocked.  “In the end it’s all up to the PDL,” Letta said late
yesterday in an interview televised on state-broadcaster RAI.
“I think there’s a deep debate taking place within the PDL.”  German bonds were little changed as the  U.S. Congress 
sought to end a budget stalemate that raises the risk of the
first government shutdown in 17 years and threatens talks to
increase the debt limit.  Failure to approve funding to keep the government open and
to raise the debt ceiling would have a destabilizing effect on
the economy, President  Barack Obama  said in a televised
statement on Sept. 27. Closing the government would cut fourth-quarter economic growth by as much as 1.4 percentage points
depending on its length, according to economists from Moody’s
Analytics Inc. to Economic Outlook Group LLC.  The 10-year  German bund yielded  1.78 percent after touching
1.74 percent, the lowest level since Aug. 13. The rate declined
17 basis points last week, the most since July 2012.  Volatility on Finnish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by those of Belgium and  Greece ,
according to measures of 10-year debt, the yield spread between
two- and 10-year securities, and credit-default swaps.  Italian bonds returned 3.7 percent this year through Sept.
27, according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German securities
lost 1.5 percent and  Spain ’s gained 8.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  