-- Italy in Disarray as ECB Pledge Keeps Nation From Brink
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-10-01T08:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/italy-in-disarray-as-draghi-pledge-keeps-nation-from-brink.html
Italy’s government is on the verge of
collapse and two of its most senior executives have lost the
confidence of shareholders. Thanks to  Mario Draghi ’s promises,
bond investors see the turmoil as more of a blip than a crisis.  Yields barely budged yesterday even after Prime Minister
Enrico Letta spent the weekend fighting Silvio Berlusconi’s
efforts to topple his government.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s
second biggest bank, replaced its chief executive officer and
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  CEO Franco Bernabe is preparing to resign.  Without Draghi “little would have stood in the way of
catastrophe,” Nicola Marinelli, who helps oversee $180 million
as portfolio manager at Glendevon King Ltd. in  London , said in
an e-mail. “Italy would be facing very high refinancing rates,
difficulties in issuing bonds at auctions, and the clear
prospect of going out of the euro or defaulting on its debt.”  Italy ’s politicians are benefitting from the unintended
consequences of ECB President Draghi’s promise last year to “do
whatever it takes” to backstop the euro. While Draghi, the
country’s former central banker, is pushing Italian officials to
revamp their economy, the pledge has convinced some investors
that, no matter how dysfunctional the country becomes, the ECB
will bail it out in the end.  The yield on Italian 10-year bonds, which has risen 19
basis points in the past week, dropped 2 basis points to 4.55
percent at 10:18 a.m. Rome time, after a weekend that brought
Letta’s coalition to the brink of collapse. That compares with
the 7.48 percent record hit in November 2011 when Berlusconi’s
last government fell. Draghi unveiled his plan to underpin the
currency 10 months later.  “The signalling effect of the ECB’s bond-buying program
continues to supress Italian yields,” said  Nicholas Spiro ,
managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London. “As a
form of verbal intervention, it has been a smashing success and
continues to prop up peripheral eurozone debt markets to varying
degrees.”  Letta’s Challenge  Italy’s economy has been shrinking since the third quarter
of 2011 and is weighed down by the world’s third-biggest debt
burden after the U.S. and  Japan . The potential government
collapse puts fiscal targets at risk, creating “uncertainty at
a crucial period when the 2014 budget should be finalised,”
 Fitch Ratings  said in a statement yesterday.  Benchmark companies are also under strain. Intesa
Sanpaolo’s CEO Enrico Tommaso Cucchiani resigned Sept. 29 after
clashing with some shareholders, while Franco Bernabe, CEO of
Italy’s biggest phone company, plans to quit after losing the
support of the company’s biggest shareholders, a person with
knowledge of the matter said last week.  Intesa shares dropped 3.5 percent yesterday, leading a 1.2
percent drop in Italy’s benchmark FTSE MIB Index. The index was
up 0.9 percent at 10:20 a.m. in Rome today.  Letta’s Choice  Most of the attention is on Letta, who leads a fractious
coalition cobbled together during two months of talks after
inconclusive elections in February.  The fissures that risk bringing his administration down
stem from Berlusconi’s legal troubles. His tax-fraud conviction
subjects him to expulsion proceedings in parliament, a course
that Letta’s Democratic Party allies are pursuing over the
objections of Berlusconi’s associates.  He pulled the plug on Sept. 28 and five ministers from his
People of Liberty party, including Deputy Premier  Angelino Alfano , quit the Cabinet.  Letta defied Berlusconi’s attempts to force early elections
and said he’ll request a confidence vote for Oct. 2 to try to
save his administration.  ‘Unwelcome’ Tensions  “Although the financial markets are accustomed to
dysfunctional and unstable Italian politics, the latest bout of
renewed tensions is unwelcome at a time when Italy remains
entrenched in a severe and prolonged economic downturn,”  Raj Badiani , principal IHS Global Insight economist for Italy, said
in a research report.  Letta needs 24 votes in the Senate to secure a new majority
without Berlusconi, newspaper  Corriere della Sera  reported. He
may gather some of those votes from lawmakers willing to leave
Berlusconi’s party, Deputy Finance Minister Stefano Fassina told
Bloomberg Television yesterday.  Should he fail, that would likely trigger early elections
initiating a new round of political strife, further testing the
limits of Draghi’s promise.  “People feel encouraged to buy Italian sovereign debt as
long as big old brother in  Frankfurt  is willing to do that,”
Francesco Galietti, founder of Rome-based research firm Policy
Sonar, said in an interview. “Draghi’s position is really
delicate because on the one hand he has to help Letta, and he
certainly is doing so. But on the other hand he has to watch out
for German hawks who might consider him as too lenient on
Italy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in  Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  