-- Italian Banks Tumble as Letta Government Teeters: Milan Mover
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-09-30T09:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/italian-banks-tumble-as-letta-government-teeters-milan-mover.html
Italian banks fell in Milan trading
as Prime Minister Enrico Letta fought to save his
administration, driving the spread between Italian and German
government bond yields higher.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) ,  Italy ’s second-biggest bank,  declined 
as much as 5.6 percent and was down 3.5 percent to 1.53 euros at
11:44 a.m.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the nation’s biggest bank, fell 2.4
percent to 4.66 euros. The FTSE Italia All-Share Banks Index,
which has gained 13 percent this year, dropped 3 percent.  “The renewed political uncertainty is likely to lead to
rising sovereign spreads and this will negatively affect cost of
funding and cost of equity of the Italian banks,” Azzurra Guelfi, an analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote in a note today.
“Given large exposure of banks to Italian sovereign bonds, this
would reduce the bank shareholder equity.”  Letta said he’ll request a confidence vote in two days to
try to save his five-month-old administration after  Silvio Berlusconi  withdrew his support from the ruling coalition and
pulled his ministers from cabinet. The rift between Letta and
Berlusconi, a three-time prime minister, has pushed up Italian
bond yields and threatens to impair the country’s ability to
deliver on its budget commitments.  Italy’s 10-year yield climbed 9 basis points to 4.51
percent, after reaching 4.66 percent, the highest level since
June 20. The gap in yield between Italian 10-year  government
bonds  and German bunds widened 10 basis points to 274 basis
points. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  