-- Italy Bank Buffers, CFTC Votes, FHA Subsidy: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-09-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/italy-bank-buffers-cftc-votes-fha-subsidy-compliance.html
Italian banks’ capital buffers risk
being depleted because of poor asset quality and weak
profitability should an economic recession persist, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  Twenty of Italy’s banks, which account for about one-third
of the nation’s banking industry, will see their Basel III core
capital measures slide by as much as 14 billion euros
($19 billion) below a key global benchmark in 2015 should an
economic downturn continue into next year, the Washington-based
fund said in an e-mailed report published Sept. 27.  Banks in the euro region’s third-largest economy are
struggling to improve asset quality and profitability as the
longest recession in more than 20 years makes it harder for
businesses and households to repay loans. Italy’s economy may
contract 1.7 percent this year, according to the average
estimate of 43 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, after shrinking
2.4 percent in 2012.  The capital shortfall of banks could widen should they be
forced to increase provisions or reclassify loans as a result of
upcoming European Central Bank-led asset quality reviews, the
IMF said. Accelerating the write-off of bad loans would improve
profitability and reduce funding costs, increasing confidence in
the industry and helping to increase lending, the IMF said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  CFTC Said to Plan October Votes on Client Funds and Speculation  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission next month
plans to complete rules to boost protection of customer funds
and release a new proposal for limits on speculation in oil,
natural gas and other markets, according to two people familiar
with the matter.  The agency is debating the regulations internally and plans
to vote at an Oct. 24 meeting in Washington, according to the
people, who asked not to be named because the schedule is
private. The customer-protection rules have been under debate
for more than a year, while earlier rules limiting speculation
were overturned by a federal judge.  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
schedule, which could change because of internal debate. The
agency’s customer protection rules, proposed after the collapse
of MF Global Holdings Ltd. initially left a gap of $1.6 billion
in client funds, have spurred opposition from the futures
industry. One part of the proposal required brokerages to at all
times of the day keep enough of their own money, or residual
interest, on hand to account for their customers’ deficits.  The CFTC said the proposal would avoid the possibility that
brokerages would use end-of-the day balancing to “obscure a
shortfall.” The change from industry practice would tie up
additional capital and would probably lead to increased costs
for clients, according to brokerages that objected to the rule.  The agency is considering changing the proposal to require
the calculation of deficits to be completed by the close of
business the day after a trade occurs, according to one of the
people.  EU Weighs Reducing Bank Contributions to Single Resolution Fund  The European Union is weighing reducing banks’
contributions to a proposed single resolution fund for failing
banks to 0.8 percent of deposits from the 1 percent proposed by
the European Commission.  Within 10 years after legislation creating a Single
Resolution Mechanism and fund is enacted, the fund’s available
financial means “shall reach at least 0.8 percent of the amount
of deposits of all credit institutions authorized in the
participating member states,” according to a document prepared
by the Lithuanian presidency of the EU and obtained by  Bloomberg
News .  China Can Resume IPO After Reforms, Securities Times Says  China can resume initial public offerings only after new
rules are officially announced and take effect, the  Securities
Times  reported, citing a  China Securities Regulatory Commission 
spokesman at a Sept. 27 news conference.  A prolonged IPO halt isn’t good for companies’ financing
and the stock market’s long-term healthy development, the
spokesman was cited as saying.  Separately, the commission released risk provisions rules
for mutual funds that will take effect Jan. 1, Caixin reported,
citing the regulator.  Compliance Action  Federal Housing Administration to Take $1.7 Billion Subsidy  The  Federal Housing Administration  will take about $1.7
billion from the  U.S. Treasury  to shore up its insurance fund
after losses on defaulted mortgages depleted reserves.  The government mortgage insurer will take the draw today,
the last day of the fiscal year, FHA Commissioner Carol Galante
said in a letter sent to Congress Sept. 27. The agency has about
$30 billion in liquid assets and needs more because it is
required to keep enough money on hand to cover all projected
future losses.  Projections show the FHA won’t require a subsidy in fiscal
year 2014. Still, the agency’s need for taxpayer funds for the
first time since it was established in 1934 could give
ammunition to Republicans in Congress seeking legislation to
shrink its mission.  The FHA insures $1.1 trillion worth of  mortgages  and backs
about 15 percent of U.S. loan originations for home purchases,
almost quadruple the 4 percent share it had in 2007.  The  House Financial Services Committee  passed a Republican
bill in July that would largely limit FHA coverage to first-time
borrowers purchasing moderately priced homes. The Senate Banking
Committee in July approved a bipartisan measure that would set a
floor on premiums the agency charges and require it to hold more
money in reserve.  The FHA has authority to take the money without prior
approval from Congress. The draw won’t affect the federal debt
ceiling because the money is being transferred between
government accounts, not spent.  Banks Pressed by U.S. Lawmakers for Details on Deals at Colleges  Democratic lawmakers including Senator Elizabeth Warren
Sept. 27 demanded that eight U.S. banks produce information
about agreements they may have with colleges to encourage
students to use their products.  “These lucrative deals are great for banks and great for
colleges, but students can get hurt when they are steered into
financial products that carry high fees,” the group of
lawmakers wrote in the letter to  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and six other banks.  They cited a 2012  report  by the U.S. Public Interest
Research Group, a consumer organization that criticized bank
practices.  The letter also went to chief executives of  U.S. Bancorp (USB) ,
 PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , TCF
Bank,  Huntington Bancshares Inc. (HBAN)  and  Commerce Bancshares Inc. (CBSH) 
 Higher One Holdings Inc. (ONE) , a New Haven, Connecticut-based company
that provides financial services to students, was also sent a
copy of the letter.  Interviews  CFTC to Propose New Draft of Margin Rules, Gensler Says  Gary Gensler , chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, spoke about plans to boost protection of customer
funds and new swaps trading rules.  Gensler spoke to a group of corporate treasurers at the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington.  For the video, click here.  Rosengren Says ‘Overdue’ Money-Fund Rules Needed for Stability  Federal Reserve Bank of Boston President  Eric Rosengren 
said tougher oversight of money-market mutual funds is
“overdue” and called on the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission to adopt rules that curb risks to the financial
system.  “The financial stability concerns surrounding MMMFs remain
real, five years after the financial crisis,” Rosengren said in
remarks prepared for a speech Sept. 27 in New York. “MMMF runs
should not be allowed to once again impede the flow of stable
funding within our financial system.”  Rosengren echoed a call by all 12 Fed district banks
presidents that the SEC extend its proposed rules for money-market mutual funds to a bigger chunk of the industry’s $2.6
trillion in assets. All money funds that buy corporate debt, not
just those that cater to institutional investors, should abandon
their fixed $1 share price, the Fed presidents said in a Sept.
12 letter to the SEC.  “While the severe runs occurred at institutional prime
funds during the last financial crisis, there is no assurance
that the next crisis will avoid retail funds,” Rosengren said.  The SEC’s floating share price would apply to about $968
billion in institutional funds that buy corporate debt, known as
prime funds, and $78 billion in institutional funds focused on
municipal debt, as they are currently categorized by the
industry. Extending the rule to prime retail funds would add
about $517 billion.  Comings and Goings  SEC Trial Lawyer Who Beat Fabrice Tourre Said to Step Down  Matthew Martens, the head of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s trial unit who won a fraud ruling in court
against former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  executive  Fabrice
Tourre , is leaving the agency, a person with knowledge of the
matter said.  Martens, 41, joined the SEC in August 2010 as the
enforcement division struggled to restore its reputation after
missing  Bernard Madoff ’s multibillion-dollar fraud. His deputy,
Matthew Solomon, will take over as chief litigation counsel when
he leaves in the coming weeks, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the decision isn’t yet public.  Martens, who earlier in his career worked as a law clerk
for former Supreme Court Chief Justice William Rehnquist, was
thrust into the spotlight as the lead trial attorney to argue
the SEC’s case against Tourre, who was accused of misleading
investors about a financial product linked to subprime
mortgages. Martens’s victory in court bolstered pledges by SEC
Chairman Mary Jo White to seek more onerous settlements even if
it could lead to more trials.  Martens is in talks with several private law firms,
according to the person.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  