-- Titans’ Locker Will Miss at Least One Game With Hip, Knee Injury
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-09-30T19:33:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/titans-locker-will-miss-at-least-one-game-with-hip-knee-injury.html
Tennessee Titans quarterback Jake Locker will have more tests tomorrow and miss at least one game
after he was carted off the field with hip and knee injuries in
a victory against the  New York  Jets.  Locker, 25, was released from the hospital today after
early tests revealed a right-knee sprain and no serious hip
injury, coach Mike Munchak said today in a news conference. He
won’t play this weekend against the undefeated Kansas City
Chiefs, Munchak said, but is expected to play again this season.  ESPN reported today that the team expected the third-year
quarterback to miss four to eight weeks. Munchak said those
reports were guesses.  “He still has swelling so they don’t want to speculate on
determining what that means, or how long he’ll rehab,” Munchak
said. “He’ll be MRI’ed again tomorrow and then we’ll have a
better idea of a time frame of when he can play or get back on
the field.”  Locker was injured in the third quarter yesterday on a hit
from Jets defensive linemen Muhammad Wilkerson and Quinton
Coples. Locker lay motionless on the field for several minutes
before being removed on a motorized cart and taken to a
hospital.  There was no penalty flag on the play, and Wilkerson said
after the game that it was a clean hit, according to ESPN. NFL
spokesman Greg Aiello said in an e-mail that the NFL reviews all
plays of that nature and that fines were a possibility.  Munchak said he thought Wilkerson lowered his head and did
not make an effort to avoid Locker, who had just released the
ball. He said the hit from Coples, who collided with Locker
after Wilkerson, was “totally unnecessary.”  The Titans are 3-1, tied with the Indianapolis Colts for
first in the American Football Conference South division. The
team plays the Chiefs (4-0), the Seattle Seahawks (4-0) and the
defending National Football Conference-champion San Francisco
49ers (2-2) in its next three games before a bye week.  Locker has completed 62.2 percent of his passes this year
for six touchdowns and no interceptions. Ryan Fitzpatrick will
start in his absence, Munchak said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  