-- Mizuho Falls Most in Three Months on Gangster Loans: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2013-09-30T04:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/mizuho-falls-most-in-three-months-on-gangster-loans-tokyo-mover.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  fell
the most in more than three months in Tokyo trading after
 Japan ’s banking regulator penalized the lender for dealing with
organized crime groups.  The  shares  of Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value
declined as much as 4.1 percent, the biggest intraday drop since
June 13, to 213 yen and traded at 216 yen as of 12:34 p.m. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average slid 1 percent.  The Financial Services Agency said on Sept. 27 it ordered
Mizuho’s banking unit to strengthen legal compliance and
controls after it failed to prevent more than two years of
transactions with “anti-social” groups, a term commonly used
in Japan to describe yakuza crime syndicates. Through consumer
credit companies, Mizuho Bank Ltd. made 230 loans valued at
about 200 million yen ($2 million), the FSA said.  Lending to mobsters “is negative in terms of Mizuho’s
reputation and that’s why we’re seeing its shares falling,”
said Shinichiro Nakamura, a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. “This could happen to any other big lender in
Japan as they have all probably made affiliated loans like
these. The regulator just sent a wake-up call.”  Mizuho’s transactions with the groups, including gangs,
were mostly automobile loans, an FSA official said at a news
briefing in Tokyo on Sept. 27, asking not to be named in
accordance with the agency’s policy.  “I don’t think the stock decline will last long because
this won’t have an impact on the bank’s earnings,” Nakamura
said.  Internal Penalties  Mizuho is considering penalties for some employees,
including pay cuts, and will give further details in a report it
plans to submit to the FSA by Oct. 28, said  Masako Shiono , a
Tokyo-based spokeswoman. The lender in response to the penalty
has formed a committee to consider improvement measures and deal
with any impact on its customers, she added.  Most of the loans investigated by the FSA were made through
consumer credit companies, including  Orient Corp. (8585) , Japan’s Asahi
newspaper reported. Daisuke Muraoka, a spokesman for Orient,
said the firm is conducting reviews to prevent transactions
involving anti-social groups.  Shares of Tokyo-based Orient dropped as much as 6 percent
to 266 yen and traded at 273 yen.  Japanese authorities have stepped up efforts to combat
yakuza gangs, whose activities range from extortion to fraud and
 money laundering , according to the  National Police Agency . In
the first penalty of its kind against a Japanese bank since
2007, the FSA told Mizuho to make a “clean break” from the
groups.  Mizuho is now considering merging its client information
system with those of consumer credit companies it works with in
November to create better data system and prevent transactions
with criminal groups, Shiono said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  