-- J.C. Penney Investor Perry Cuts Investment by Almost Half
-- B y   K e v i n   O r l a n d   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-09-30T23:56:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/j-c-penney-investor-perry-cuts-investment-by-almost-half.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  investor Perry
Corp. cut its investment in the struggling retailer by almost
half as the department-store chain seeks to raise capital.  Perry now owns 10 million shares of J.C. Penney, amounting
to a 3.3 percent stake, the New York-based firm said today in a
filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. It held
19 million shares as of Aug. 30, which at the time was an 8.6
percent stake.  Perry announced its investment in J.C. Penney on Aug. 9,
backing activist and director  Bill Ackman ’s efforts to oust
Chairman Tom Engibous and Chief Executive Officer Mike Ullman.
The rest of the board stood its ground, saying Ullman is the
right CEO to revive the company. Ackman agreed to quit the board
after the public clash, and later his Pershing Square Capital
Management LP sold its entire stake for a $500 million loss.  Perry has lost about $40.7 million since Aug. 9 on the 10
million shares he still holds.  Ullman has been working with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on a
share offering to raise as much as $932 million, before
underwriting discounts. That would help J.C. Penney get through
the holiday season and fund its attempt to rebound from Ullman’s
predecessor’s failed attempt to transform the retailer. The sale
will dilute current shares by about 30 percent, Michael Binetti,
an analyst at UBS AG in  New York , said last week.  J.C. Penney, based in Plano,  Texas , fell 0.5 percent to
$8.76 in extended trading at 7:11 p.m. New York time. The shares
have slid 55 percent this year, compared with an 18 percent gain
for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Orland in Chicago at 
 korland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  