-- Japan Developers May Drop 30% on Sales Tax: Deutsche Bank
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-10-01T06:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/japan-developers-may-drop-30-on-sales-tax-deutsche-bank.html
Japanese real-estate shares may
tumble as much as 30 percent over six months after the
government confirmed plans to raise the  sales tax , damping
demand for home purchases, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  The last time  Japan  announced an increase in the levy, in
June 1996,  the Topix Real Estate Index  of the nation’s
developers sank 23 percent in about half a year. The  tax rate 
rose 2 percentage points to 5 percent. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
today said the government will lift the tax to 8 percent next
April. It might then be increased to 10 percent in 2015. The
drop in developers’ shares this time may be much greater because
the rate increase is bigger, said  Yoji Otani , a Tokyo-based
real-estate analyst at Deutsche Bank who downgraded the sector
on Sept. 20 after rating it overweight since 2010.  “I’ve been bullish on real-estate stocks for the past
three years, but at this point it’s hard to see them gaining
further,” Otani said. “Shares started falling in June 1996
when the government declared the consumption-tax increase. I
anticipate a similar trend this time, if not worse.”  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe announced his decision on the tax
today, its first increase since 1997, in a bid to rein in a
national debt more than twice gross domestic product. A buyer of
a new condominium costing 51.3 million yen ($524,000), the
 average price  in  Tokyo , would pay an extra 1.5 million yen in
taxes at the new rate. The move to boost the levy in 1997, and
the Asian financial crisis, helped push the country’s economy
into three straight quarters of contraction.  Housing Demand  Housing starts  rose to 1.6 million units in 1996 and fell
for two straight years after the tax was raised, according to
the land ministry. Real-estate demand has been increasing
recently as potential buyers seek to purchase before the levy
increases. Monthly housing starts climbed to an annualized
975,000 units in July, capping the longest rising streak since
February 1994, the ministry data showed.  Otani has been right on developers for the past two years.
The Topix real estate index gained 80 percent in 2012 and 57
percent so far this year, during which he had buy ratings on the
sector’s biggest companies including  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) ,
Mitsui Fudosan Co., Sumitomo Realty & Development Co. and Tokyo
Tatemono Co. He cut the four stocks to hold on Sept. 20.  The Topix Real Estate Index  gained  0.2 percent today in
Tokyo, recouping some of yesterday’s 2.2 percent decline. The
measure is down 7.9 percent from its high this year on April 12.
Mitsui Fudosan, Japan’s largest developer, gained 0.9 percent.  Stimulus Package  Abe will also unveil the size of a package of stimulus
measures later today, he told reporters, in a bid to offset the
negative impacts of the increased sales levy. Economists have
projected a 5 trillion yen ($51 billion) plan that will include
public works spending and tax breaks encouraging companies to
boost  capital spending  and wages.  Also today, data from the government’s statistics bureau in
Tokyo showed that household spending fell 0.5 percent in August
from July, while the jobless rate rose to 4.1 percent last month
from 3.8 percent.  Real-estate shares may continue their decline until
economic indicators worsen, which will prompt the central bank
to inject another wave of stimulus, Deutsche Bank’s Otani said.  “We think investors should resume investment in the sector
when the next monetary easing occurs,” he wrote in the Sept. 20
report. “It would be ideal if the consumption tax hike and
further monetary easing were announced simultaneously, but we
think this is unlikely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  