-- Jobs Report Won’t Be Released Oct. 4 If U.S. Government Shut
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-09-30T20:41:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/jobs-report-won-t-be-released-oct-4-if-u-s-government-closed.html
The U.S. Labor Department won’t
release its monthly employment report if the federal government
is closed on Oct. 4, the day of the scheduled release, according
to an Obama administration official.  The official, who wasn’t authorized to discuss the process
and spoke on condition of anonymity, couldn’t say how the report
might be affected if the government is shut down and re-opens
before the end of the week.  The U.S. government is poised at midnight for its first
partial shutdown in 17 years. Republicans and Democrats remained
at odds over whether to tie any changes to the 2010 Affordable
Care Act to a short-term extension of government funding.  The Bureau of Labor Statistics will suspend operations and
close its offices tomorrow morning if there is a lapse in
appropriations, Steve Barr, a Labor Department spokesman, said
in an interview. The agency “will continue to assess the
situation” in the event of a shutdown, he said. The bureau is
an agency of the Labor Department.  The jobs report is closely watched for clues to Federal
Reserve policy and the health of the economy. The central bank
has said it will keep its benchmark  interest rate  near zero for
at least as long as the  unemployment rate  exceeds 6.5 percent
and the outlook for inflation is no more than 2.5 percent.  Employers probably added 181,000 workers to payrolls in
September, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists. That would be the biggest gain in five
months. The jobless rate is forecast to hold at 7.3 percent.  Agriculture Data  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  will suspend crop and
livestock reports during a shutdown. The  National Agricultural
Statistics Service  will not issue reports while employees are
furloughed from government duty, spokeswoman Sue King said in an
e-mail. Reports suspended include those detailing global supply
and demand for agricultural commodities, she said.  U.S. stocks slid on concern lawmakers will be unable to
avert a shutdown. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index fell 0.6
percent to 1,681.55 at the close of trading in  New York . The
benchmark gauge has added 3 percent this month, extending its
quarterly gain to 4.7 percent, as the Fed kept its $85 billion
of monthly bond-buying.  In contingency plans posted on its website last week, the
Labor Department left open the possibility of publishing certain
data compiled by BLS should a release be seen as part of an
“orderly cessation of activities.” It cited the example of the
1995 federal government shutdown that occurred after consumer
price index figures had been prepared and not yet released to
the public.  ‘Orderly Cessation’  The risk of disclosure of the data was considered
unacceptable and releasing the report “was deemed to be part of
the orderly cessation of activities,” Erica Groshen,
commissioner of the BLS, said in the memo last week.  Suspending operations tomorrow wouldn’t involve releasing
any economic data from the BLS, Barr said. Weekly data on claims
for  unemployment benefits , issued by the Employment and Training
Administration, will continue to be published, according to the
Labor Department’s plans.  Data supplied by private companies, including tomorrow’s
Institute for Supply Management  factory index  and employment
figures from the ADP Research Institute on Oct. 2, would not be
affected, according to  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York.  “Our sense is that a disruption beyond 24 hours would
result in a postponement of the jobs report, and in turn, the
ADP report would take on far greater significance,” LaVorgna
said today in a note to clients. If the BLS employment report is
delayed, “we will be comfortable relying on the ADP series as a
close proxy of September hiring.”  Growth Impact  A shutdown could reduce fourth-quarter economic growth by
as much as 1.4 percentage points, depending on its duration,
according to some economists. The biggest effect would come from
the output lost from furloughed workers.  The U.S. Treasury Department would continue to release the
results of its debt auctions in the event of a government
shutdown, a department official said.  The Treasury would keep
paying interest on the government’s debt and maintain
collections and daily cash management in the event of a
shutdown, it said earlier.  The publication of the U.S. monthly budget statement may be
delayed, said the Treasury official, who provided the
information today on the condition of not being further
identified. The next budget release, which provides updates on
the U.S.  federal deficit , is scheduled for Oct. 10.  Another Treasury report, the monthly statement on the
cross-border flow of portfolio assets, planned for Oct. 16, may
be delayed, said the department official.  Debt Limit  A brief government shutdown won’t lead to any significant
change of the Treasury’s forecast for when the country will
breach the debt limit, a spokeswoman said yesterday in an e-mail. The Treasury has said measures to avoid breaching the debt
ceiling will be exhausted on Oct. 17.  The Commerce Department will suspend the release of
economic data provided by its agencies in a shutdown, it said in
its contingency plan. Data on construction spending, scheduled
for release tomorrow, as well as factory orders, retail sales
and gross domestic product are all reported by agencies within
the department.  The Fed would continue to operate if the government shuts
down because it’s a self-funded agency that doesn’t depend on
congressional appropriations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in Washington at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  