-- Jonathan Says Nigerian Militants Seek Soft Targets With Massacre
-- B y   Y i n k a   I b u k u n   a n d   A r d o   H a z z a d
-- 2013-09-30T02:02:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/jonathan-says-nigerian-militants-seek-soft-targets-with-massacre.html
The Boko Haram militant group,
which the Nigerian government accuses of gunning down dozens of
students while they slept yesterday, may be shifting its focus
to so-called soft targets, President  Goodluck Jonathan  said.  As many as 50 students were killed in the early morning
attack on the dormitory of the Yobe  State College  of Agriculture
in Gujba, a town about 10 kilometers (6 miles) from the state
capital of Damaturu, the  Associated Press  reported, citing the
school’s provost, Molima Idi Mato.  “They are looking for soft spots, places where you won’t
expect them, just to embarrass the government,” Jonathan said
in a chat with journalists aired on state-run television.  A spate of militant assaults led Jonathan to declare a
state of emergency in Yobe and two other areas in May to battle
the insurgents. The Gujba attack occurred two weeks after
authorities ordered schools across Yobe to reopen. They had been
shut since a July 6 secondary school attack left about 20
students and a teacher dead.  Boko Haram, whose name means “Western education is a sin”
in the Hausa language and aims to overthrow the government to
establish an Islamic state, has killed thousands of people since
2009, mostly in attacks across the mainly Muslim north and the
capital, Abuja.  Nigeria ’s more than 160 million people are
almost evenly split between Christians, predominant in the
south, and Muslims.  Abubakar Yahaya, who rushed to look for his son when he
heard about the attack, said by phone that he counted 42 bodies
lying inside and outside the dormitory. He said he found another
18 injured students as he searched through wards yesterday at
the Damaturu Specialist Hospital.  “The incident is sad, but the security forces are doing
everything possible to apprehend the culprits,” Capt. Eli
Lazarus, a joint military task force spokesman, said in a
statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yinka Ibukun in Lagos at 
 yibukun@bloomberg.net ;
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  