-- JPMorgan Employee Said to Be Cooperating in RMBS Probe
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/jpmorgan-employee-said-to-be-cooperating-in-u-s-rmbs-probe.html
A  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  employee is
cooperating with federal investigators examining whether the
bank knew the mortgage bonds it sold were of poor quality, a
person familiar with the probe said.  The JPMorgan employee told her superiors at the bank they
were vastly overstating the quality of mortgages packaged into
securities, according to the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter isn’t public. The  Justice
Department  also has documents showing JPMorgan was aware it was
selling residential mortgage-backed securities of poor quality,
the person said.  The disclosure of a cooperator comes as the lender is in
talks to pay about $11 billion to end investigations into its
mortgage-bond sales practices by state and federal authorities,
according to people familiar with the talks, who requested
anonymity because the negotiations are private. The discussions
are fluid as is the size of a possible settlement, the people
said.  The Justice Department is under pressure from U.S. Senator
 John McCain  to hold individual executives personally accountable
for any wrongdoing at the bank. McCain, the ranking Republican
on a Senate subcommittee that probed JPMorgan’s record trading
loss last year, sent a letter yesterday to Attorney General Eric Holder, criticizing Holder’s Sept. 26 meeting with JPMorgan
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon .  Adora Andy Jenkins, a Justice Department spokeswoman, and
 Joe Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan,
declined to comment on the whether the government had obtained a
cooperating witness.  The cooperating witness was reported earlier by the Wall
Street Journal.  California Prosecutors  Last week, U.S. prosecutors in  California  were preparing to
file their own case against the bank, a person familiar with the
matter said. The U.S. Attorney’s Office in  Sacramento  was
examining whether the bank violated both civil and criminal
laws, the bank said in a regulatory filing last month.  In May, the office told the bank it had already determined
that civil laws were violated in connection with offerings of
securities based on subprime and Alt-A residential loans from
2005 to 2007, according to the regulatory filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  