-- JPMorgan Fund Joins Tax Lawsuits Seen Costing U.K. $1.6 Billion
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-09-30T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/jpmorgan-fund-joins-tax-lawsuits-seen-costing-u-k-1-6-billion.html
U.K. tax officials may have to pay
out 1 billion pounds ($1.62 billion) to about 100 investment
funds -- including some run by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  -- suing for the return of overpaid
taxes dating back two decades.  Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs won’t disclose what it may
owe the funds in lawsuits stemming from a 2007 European Court
ruling that investment trusts were improperly charged value-added tax on management fees. Marc Welby, a partner at
accounting firm BDO LLP estimated the agency might have to
refund about 1 billion pounds.  The litigation “is about investment trusts who feel short-changed over the way in which HMRC handled claims,” said Welby,
a London tax specialist who isn’t involved in the dispute.  U.K. lawmakers have publicly censured companies including
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  for using legal loopholes to
minimize taxes. At the same time, the agency in charge of
collecting them is fighting in the courts to avoid refunds that
could cost the government billions of pounds.  About 120 investment trusts, including others operated by
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,  Schroders Plc (SDR)  and Investec Plc, have sued HMRC
since May 2012, according to court filings that didn’t show the
reason for the suits. Two people familiar with the actions said
at least 100 of them are related to overpaid VAT.  HMRC has denied two Freedom of Information requests by
Bloomberg News seeking a figure for how much the U.K. may have
to repay if the suits are successful.  VAT  is a tax charged on goods and services provided in the
U.K. A European Union Court of Justice ruling in 2007 found that
services provided by fund managers to investment trusts were
exempt, meaning VAT shouldn’t have been charged. The VAT was
charged to trusts by managers, who then paid tax to HMRC.  Bottom Line  “The bottom line here is that it’s about investment trusts
that were unlawfully charged tax,” said Ian Sayers, director
general of Association of Investment Companies. “It’s not
unreasonable for people unlawfully charged tax to seek to
recover it.”  It’s difficult to determine the U.K.’s liability in the
lawsuits because they deal with different time periods and
several types of funds, including closed-end  investment trusts ,
venture capital trusts and pension funds.  The suits are complicated by the way VAT is collected.
Investment managers charged VAT to the funds in their fees, and
that money was eventually collected by the government. The funds
are challenging several factors including whether they can sue
HMRC directly, and which time periods going back to the 1990s
are eligible for refunds. Any pay outs would ultimately benefit
investors in the funds, Welby said.  Manager Collection  HMRC argues it can’t be sued by the funds because the
managers collected the tax. It said some of the money claimed
has already been repaid to the investment managers who received
the VAT.  The funds have “no right, in principle, to make a claim
against HMRC,” the tax agency said in a statement.  UK Uncut , a public interest group that opposes budget cuts,
called on the HMRC to release the information, saying many of
the institutions behind the lawsuits contributed to the 2008
financial crisis.  “The fact that this is happening is both incredible and
sad,” Bruce Scott, a spokesman for UK Uncut, said in an e-mail.
“Trying to extract further funds from a government is
effectively taking funds from members of the public. This is a
kick in the teeth to every person that has suffered as a result
of the crisis these companies caused.”  ‘No Right’  The  Information Commissioner’s Office , an independent body
overseeing transparency by public agencies, found HMRC had
breached Freedom of Information rules in its first response to
 Bloomberg News . HMRC didn’t confirm it had an estimate of the
figure sought within proper time limits.  The commissioner said HMRC had spent “a significant amount
of time” on the request, and noted that it had agreed to
process a new request for a “ballpark figure” of its
liability. That request was also rejected by HMRC last month and
Bloomberg News has again appealed to the ICO.  It’s not in the public interest to reveal how much it may
owe in the investment fund suits, HMRC said in a Sept. 13
response to the second Bloomberg News Freedom of Information
request. While it has an estimate, HMRC said publicizing the
figure might encourage other claims and compromise its defense.  Increase Speculation  “I don’t understand why HMRC always tries to keep these
sorts of numbers private as it seems only to serve to increase
speculation as to the size and why they are being so
secretive,” BDO’s Welby said.  His liability estimate is based on a 2012 U.K. court case
involving seven trusts seeking an average of 430,000 pounds.
Assuming there are 150 claims, adding simple interest would take
the total to about 1 billion pounds.  Spokesmen for JPMorgan, BlackRock, RBS and Schroders
declined to comment. Investec official Vian Sharif didn’t
respond to e-mails and a phone call seeking comment.  Sayers of the Association of Investment Companies said
members of the group had already been refunded about 200 million
pounds based on the 2007  European Court  ruling.  The legal division of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP is
advising on as many as 50 lawsuits, according to one of the
people familiar with the cases. PwC head of tax litigation Mark
Whitehouse declined to comment when reached by phone.  Some U.K. court rulings on VAT have been appealed so the
issue is unlikely to be resolved until at least next year,
according to Welby. HMRC won a strand of the litigation in March
when the European Court  ruled  its interpretation of VAT
exemptions for pension funds was correct.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  