-- Justice Roberts Hears Organ, Spacey Lobbies: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-09-30T15:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/justice-roberts-hears-organ-spacey-lobbies-d-c-scene.html
David Rubenstein  offered up the
healing power of music to “soothe” Washington’s fiscal
discord.  “Before a shutdown might occur, we’d like to invite all
members of Congress to come tomorrow night for a concert,” said
the chairman of the Carlyle Group LP and the Kennedy Center,
scene of last night’s National Symphony Orchestra Season Opening
Ball. “Hopefully afterward something good would come of it.”  Organist Cameron Carpenter wore a mohawk and gothic attire
as he warmed up the center’s newly installed organ, funded by
Rubenstein.  One guest remarked that Cameron looked like Edward
Scissorhands. He didn’t lack for dance partners after the post-performance dinner.  Chief Justice John Roberts gave a hearing to Yo-Yo Ma on
Tchaikovsky’s “Variations on a Rococo Theme.” Ma dined with
the ball’s chairman, Sydney McNiff Johnson, who wore a white
Greek-column dress. The NSO raised $1.3 million.  Spacey Foundation  Kevin Spacey  was miffed. No one had bid on a tennis date
with him, part of the first gala for his Kevin Spacey
Foundation, which awards scholarships and grants to budding
artists worldwide.  Then journalist Andrea Mitchell, wife of  Alan Greenspan ,
served up a $10,000 contribution, part of the $150,000 raised
during the Saturday night event at the Mandarin Oriental.  Spacey, 54, who plays the majority whip on the Netflix
series “House of Cards,” was joined by the real thing:
Representative Kevin McCarthy, the California Republican. They
compared socks with pollster  Frank Luntz .  The room was decorated with posters from the films of Jack
Lemmon, who inspired Spacey to help young people with his motto
that if you do well in life “you should send the elevator back
down.” Spacey will travel the world for his Elevator
Initiative, choosing and molding aspiring actors.  The posters, Spacey said, added “a twist of Lemmon” to
the evening.  MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc. bought a table for
$10,000. “Oh, I love Ron Perelman,” Spacey told  Christine Taylor , the executive vice president for corporate
communications at the firm, where Perelman is chairman and chief
executive officer.  Also present were Congressman Steny Hoyer, Maryland
Democrat,  Ron Klain , whom Spacey portrayed in the film
“Recount,” Spacey’s on-camera chief of staff, actor  Michael
Kelly , and Chris Lemmon, the late actor’s son.  Spacey’s scholarships started this year at the  Regent’s
University London , where he is artistic director of the Old Vic.
He’s also giving $120,000 in grants to fund creative projects in
the U.K. and U.S.  As for his next film project, Spacey said he’s campaigning
hard to finally work with  Woody Allen . “I sent him a Netflix
subscription,” he said.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Patrick Cole on  philanthropy ,
 Warwick Thompson  on theater.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 