-- Knight Expands USA Truck Stake Amid Vow to Pursue Takeover
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-09-30T21:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/knight-expands-usa-truck-stake-while-vowing-to-pursue-takeover.html
Knight Transportation Inc. (KNX)  boosted
its stake in  USA Truck Inc. (USAK)  and vowed to “take the necessary
steps” to complete a hostile takeover of the short-haul carrier
after its bid was rejected a second time.  Knight increased its  holding  to 11.3 percent from 8 percent
and said it has held talks with several of USA Truck’s largest
shareholders, who indicated their support for the $9-a-share
offer, according to a filing today. USA Truck spurned the bid on
Sept. 26, saying it “substantially undervalues” the company.  “We continue to believe that a combination of Knight and
USA Truck is better positioned to deliver value for and is in
the best interest of all of Knight and USA Truck’s stakeholders,
and we are prepared to take the necessary steps to make this
combination a reality,” Knight said today.  Knight made public its offer to buy the Van Buren,
Arkansas-based company in a $242 million transaction on Sept.
26, sending USA Truck shares soaring 36 percent, the biggest
advance since its initial public offering in 1992. The
combination would help allay risk in the short-haul carrier’s
turnaround plan and help reverse eight consecutive quarters of
net losses, said Knight, which is based in Phoenix.  USA Truck  rose  4.3 percent to $8.96 at the close in  New
York . The shares have more than doubled this year. Knight was
little changed at $16.52 and has increased 13 percent this year.  “Thursday’s press release is our comment,” USA Truck
Chief Financial Officer Clifton Beckham said today by phone,
referring to the company’s Sept. 26 rebuff of the offer.  Nicholas Leasure, a spokesman for Knight, declined to
comment beyond the filing.  This is not the first offer that USA Truck has turned down.
The company rejected a proposal for merger talks from  Celadon
Group Inc. (CGI)  in October 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Chen in New York at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  