-- Korean Won Set for Best Quarter in Three Years on Stock Inflows
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-09-30T03:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/korean-won-set-for-best-quarter-in-three-years-on-stock-inflows.html
South  Korea ’s won was set for its
biggest quarterly gain in three years after overseas investors
pumped money into the nation’s stocks.  Government bonds  advanced.  The won was the best performer among the 11 most-traded
Asian currencies since June 30 as global funds bought $9.8
billion more local equities than they sold, exchange data show.
 South Korea  is likely to post a $53 billion current-account
surplus this year “without much difficulty,” Jung Yung Taek, a
director general at the  Bank of Korea , said Sept. 27 in Seoul.  South Korea’s currency rallied 6.2 percent this quarter to
1,074.6 versus the dollar as of 12:10 p.m. in Seoul, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency dropped 0.1 percent
today, paring its gain this month to 3.3 percent.  “Strong foreign demand for local stocks was the major
boost for the currency,” said Jeon Seung Ji, a currency analyst
at Samsung Futures Inc. in  Seoul . “The current-account surplus
also helped lift sentiment.”  The excess in the broadest measure of trade was $5.7
billion in August, compared with a revised $6.8 billion surplus
in July, official data showed last week.  Industrial output rose 3.3 percent in August from a year
earlier, the most since January, figures released today show. An
index measuring manufacturers’ expectations for October climbed
to 82 from 77 for September, the Bank of Korea said today.  U.S. Deadlock  The U.S. House of Representatives voted yesterday to delay
many of the Affordable Care Act’s central provisions for one
year. If the Senate rejects the bill today, the government of
the world’s largest economy could be shut down from tomorrow.  “Concerns over the U.S. budget deadlock are lingering,”
Samsung’s Jeon wrote in a research note today. “The won’s fall
may be limited should exporters sell dollars to cover month-end
expenses,” she wrote, referring to the daily move.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell 400 basis
points, or 4 percentage points, this quarter to 7.39 percent. It
climbed 31 basis points today.  The yield on the 2.75 percent bonds due June 2016 decreased
six basis points this quarter and two basis points today to 2.81
percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  