-- N.Y. City Opera Lawyer Expects Bankruptcy Filing Tomorrow
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/n-y-city-opera-expects-bankruptcy-filing-oct-2-lawyer-says.html
New York City Opera , created 70 years
ago as the “people’s opera,” expects to file for  bankruptcy
protection  tomorrow and either liquidate in court or be sold to
another institution, its lawyer said.  The nonprofit organization, which this year produced “ Anna
Nicole ,” about the late tabloid celebrity, failed to reach its
fundraising goal of $7 million, the lawyer,  Kenneth Rosen  of
Lowenstein Sandler LLP, said yesterday in phone interview.  “There have been many, many generous donors -- a lot of
people appreciate what the  New York  City Opera does, and it does
a wonderful thing,” said Rosen, who has worked with the opera
for two years. “But right now we don’t have the $7 million that
we need to go forward with the season.”  The opera company last week posted an “urgent” notice on
its website seeking donations to help raise $20 million,
including the $7 million it said it needed by yesterday for the
current season. Just $291,952 was pledged by 2,027 people as of
yesterday in an online  Kickstarter  campaign.  “The opera has obviously been trying to avoid this,”
Rosen said. “Over the past several years, it has been doing
everything conceivable to reduce overhead, reduce expenses,”
including moving from  Lincoln Center  to City Center.  The company said in a statement on its website that if the
fundraising effort failed, it would suspend the rest of its
2013-2014 season.  ‘Bluebeard’s Castle’  New York City Opera co-produced “Anna Nicole” with
 Brooklyn Academy of Music . The remaining productions for this
season are Johann Christian Bach’s “Endimione,” Bela Bartok’s
“Bluebeard’s Castle” and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart’s “The
Marriage of Figaro,” according to the website.  The company was once dubbed “the people’s opera” by Mayor
Fiorello LaGuardia, and was a breeding ground for young talent
that included  Beverly Sills  and Placido Domingo.  George Steel , the artistic director and general manager
since 2009, wrote in a mass e-mail on Sept. 26 that the opera
“is on the verge of canceling its season and filing for
bankruptcy.”  In 2011-12, the last year for which results are available,
ticket sales were $1.1 million, down 87 percent from 2005-06.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  