-- New Zealand Faces NZ$155 Million Bill to Refinance Coal Company
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-09-30T22:53:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/new-zealand-faces-nz-155-million-bill-to-refinance-coal-company.html
The New Zealand government will spend
as much as NZ$155 million ($129 million) to restructure state-owned coal miner Solid Energy New Zealand Ltd. after an
agreement was reached with lenders.  The costs include a NZ$25 million cash injection, a NZ$50
million working capital loan, a NZ$50 million mortgage and a
NZ$30 million standby loan, Finance Minister  Bill English  said
in a statement. They will be included in the government’s
financial statement for the year ended June 30.  Solid Energy entered talks with its bankers in February
after debt rose and falling world coal prices curbed income. The
company has fired workers and closed mines to reduce losses, and
the government was forced to abandon a plan to offer as much as
49 percent of it in an initial public offering as part of its
asset-sales program.  “Ministers were not prepared to expose taxpayers to on-going losses if Solid Energy’s core business was not considered
viable,” English said. “We were prepared to provide support
for the company if there was a reasonable chance it could be
made viable, and we expected the lenders to also contribute to
that recovery.”  The company will issue NZ$75 million in non-voting
redeemable preference shares to its key lenders in exchange for
part of the debt owed to them, the government said. Solid
Energy’s bank debt stood at NZ$286 million at June 30.  Holders of the company’s NZ$95 million medium term notes
will be asked to waive some rights to allow the restructure
proposal to be put to its bankers.  The government forecasts its program to sell minority
stakes in three power companies and Air New Zealand Ltd. will
raise about NZ$5 billion, after initially indicating it could
get as much as NZ$7 billion when Solid Energy was included.  The statements for the year ended June 30 will be published
Oct. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  