-- New Jersey Court Told Same-Sex Marriage Appeal on Way
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s ,   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-10-01T19:06:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/new-jersey-supreme-court-told-same-sex-marriage-appeal-coming.html
Governor  Chris Christie ’s attorney
general told the New Jersey Supreme Court that he’s appealing a
judge’s ruling that same-sex couples must be allowed to marry.  Acting Attorney General John J. Hoffman notified the
Supreme Court yesterday of the state’s appeal of the Sept. 27
decision by Superior Court Judge Mary Jacobson in Trenton. The
judge said her order will take effect Oct. 21, which would make
New Jersey the 14th U.S. state to allow gay marriages.  Hoffman said the state will ask Jacobson to put her order
on hold. If she refuses, he will ask the appellate division to
rule on an emergency basis. If necessary, the state will ask the
 Supreme Court  to stay the order. It may also ask the high court
to skip the appellate division and take the case, Hoffman wrote.  “We intend to seek this court’s direct certification of
this matter,” Hoffman wrote in a letter signed by Assistant
Attorney General Robert Lougy.  Jacobson ruled before a trial on a request by Garden State
Equality and Lambda Legal, which represents six same-sex couples
and their children. They asked Jacobson for the ruling after the
U.S. Supreme Court on June 26 struck down a federal law denying
benefits to same-sex married couples.  “Every day that the state does not allow same-sex couples
to marry, plaintiffs are being harmed,” Jacobson ruled.
“Plaintiffs are ineligible for many federal marital benefits at
this moment, and their right to equal protection under the  New
Jersey  Constitution should not be delayed until some
undeterminable future time.”  Disappointed Attorney  Attorney Lawrence Lustberg, who argued before Jacobson on
behalf of Lambda Legal, said he was disappointed that the state
is appealing and seeking a stay.  “We will fight it every step of the way,” Lustberg said.
“We’re optimistic that under the governing legal standards, the
motion for a stay will be denied, and on Oct. 21, same-sex
marriages will commence.”  The state must apply for a stay by today, Jacobson said in
an  order  she issued today. Advocates of same-sex marriage have
until Oct. 4 to reply. The state has until Oct. 7 to respond.
Jacobson said the state waived oral arguments.  Lambda Legal ’s deputy legal director, Hayley Gorenberg,
said the group expects to prevail.  Delay ‘Hardship’  “We’ll be making the case that we are likely to win and
any delay in allowing same-sex couples to marry is too great a
hardship to allow a stay,” Gorenberg said today in a statement.  The mayor of Lambertville, New Jersey, who performed one of
the state’s first civil unions in 2007, said he plans to marry
one of those same couples on Oct. 21.  Mayor David DelVecchio, a Democrat, said he intends to
perform the state’s first legal gay marriage ceremony for Beth
Asaro and Joanne Schailey in three weeks, as long as a stay
isn’t granted.  “This is just a continuation of the first civil union,”
DelVecchio, 56, said yesterday in an interview.  Christie, a Republican, vetoed a same-sex marriage bill
last year. The governor, who is seeking re-election in November
and may run for president in 2016, has said he believes marriage
should be between a man and a woman. He has said the question of
gay marriage should be decided by voters in a referendum, and he
would honor the results.  Supreme Court  “Since the Legislature refused to allow the people to
decide expeditiously, we will let the Supreme Court make this
constitutional determination,” Christie’s spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , said in a statement on Sept. 27.  Christie is “defending the indefensible” in promising to
go to the Supreme Court, state Senator Ray Lesniak, a Democrat
from Elizabeth, said at a statehouse press conference with party
members.  “The governor is a trained attorney -- he knows there is
no way he could win this appeal,” said the Senate majority
leader, Loretta Weinberg of Teaneck. “There is no logic behind
it. So he should stop wasting taxpayer money and drop it.”  The case is Garden State Equality v. Dow, L-001729-11,
New Jersey Superior Court, Mercer County (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  