-- Nippon Steel Pushes Merger Cost Cuts as Asia Mill Deferred
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-10-01T07:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/nippon-steel-ceo-pushes-merger-cost-cuts-and-defers-asia-mill.html
Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp. (5401) ,
the world’s biggest steelmaker by market value, will accelerate
its cost-cutting targets and defer a decision to add capacity
with an overseas integrated steel mill.  Overcapacity in  China  has led to excess supply in Southeast
Asia, the steelmaker’s target export market, and the glut may
not be resolved for years, Chief Executive Officer Shoji Muneoka
said in an interview in  Tokyo . The company will put profit
before volumes by reorganizing its 16 existing steelworks in
 Japan , he said.  “A company which doesn’t consider risks and expands
excessively could go bankrupt,” said Muneoka, who took office
on Oct. 1 last year, when the company was formed by the merger
of Nippon Steel Corp. and Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd. “It
costs several hundred billion yen to build a blast furnace. So
far it has been right for us not to do that.”  The Tokyo-based company’s market value has doubled to 3.2
trillion yen ($33 billion) since the two companies combined,
becoming the world’s most valuable steel company for the first
time in seven years. Competitiveness has been boosted by the 15
percent fall in the value of the yen against the dollar that
followed Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s election victory in
December. The company is also reaping the benefits of
efficiencies generated by its merger.  Integration Card  “Integration is our card, which only we have been granted
among steel companies, enabling extra cost cuts,” the CEO said.
“We intend to play the card to be more competitive.”  Muneoka said he expects to achieve a cost-cutting goal of
200 billion yen annually in the three years after integration
ahead of schedule, without giving a new frame. The company plans
to cut assets by 300 billion yen by March, a year and half ahead
of target, he said.  Under its existing business plan running through March
2016, the company will close one of its 14 blast furnaces and
shut 14 production lines to streamline domestic facilities. The
company won’t decide on investing in an overseas integrated
steel mill in Asia until that business plan is completed,
Muneoka said.  Nippon Steel’s  shares  rose 5 yen, or 1.5 percent, to 338
yen at the close in Tokyo trading. The benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average gained 0.2 percent.  Overseas Furnace  Nippon Steel’s rivals have seen their market value slide in
the past year, with shares in  Posco (005490) , South Korea’s biggest
steelmaker, losing 13 percent for a capitalization of 27.9
billion won ($25.9 billion).  ArcelorMittal (MT) , which is about twice
as big as Nippon by production, has seen its shares fall about
12 percent, for a market a value of 16.8 billion euros ($22.6
billion).  Even before its merger, Nippon Steel studied building an
overseas blast furnace to move closer to customers expanding
outside Japan. In Southeast Asia, demand for steel has risen as
Japanese automakers expand production to tap growth. It’s a
member of the group that controls  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais SA , or Usiminas,  Brazil ’s biggest producer of automotive
steel and an owner of blast furnaces.  Nippon Steel also has steel rolling facilities with
partners in countries including Thailand, China, and the U.S.  A Posco-PT  Krakatau Steel (KRAS)  group and Formosa Plastic Corp.
are among companies planning to build new steel plants in
Southeast Asia, further threatening a glut.  China added 440 million tons of capacity in the six years
to 2012, bringing the total to 976 million tons, UOB Kay Hian
Ltd. said in an August report, citing data from the China Iron
and Steel Association. Another 130 million tons will be added in
the three years through 2015.  Domestic competitor JFE Steel Corp. has said it will need
more time to decide on a $3 billion project to build an overseas
integrated mill. The steelmaker said in March 2012 it was
studying a blast furnace in  Vietnam , its first outside Japan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in Tokyo at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Ichiro Suzuki in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  