-- Nomura to Send 30 Japanese Bankers Abroad for Training
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2013-09-30T09:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/nomura-to-send-30-japanese-bankers-abroad-for-training.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s
largest brokerage, plans to send about 30 junior bankers to
study abroad annually to boost language skills and international
experience, according to a memo obtained by  Bloomberg News .  Top-performing retail and corporate bankers, traders and
other employees with the firm for three years will be sent
overseas for about a year, Chief Executive Officer Koji Nagai
said in the memo sent to employees today. The program will begin
this year, according to the memo.  Nomura is seeking to strengthen its overseas business as
more Japanese companies target cross-border takeovers and raise
funds through global stock sales. While the Tokyo-based firm
ranks No. 3 in advising on domestic mergers and acquisitions
this year, it places 28th globally, data complied by Bloomberg
show.  “The program is designed to cultivate the human resources
needed to sustain growth as a global financial firm based in
 Asia ,” Nagai said in the memo.  Candidates for the program will study a foreign language in
Japan for two months before moving overseas for about nine
months, according to the memo. Destinations and courses of study
will be decided by the individuals, Nagai said.  Nomura’s Tokyo-based spokesman Kenji Yamashita declined to
comment on the note.  Shares of Nomura fell 3.3 percent today in Tokyo Stock
Exchange trading, closing at 765 yen. They have risen 52 percent
this year, exceeding the benchmark Topix Index’s 39 percent
gain.  Overseas Expansion  Nagai, 54, is cutting $1 billion of costs to sustain a
rebound in profit after expenses swelled following overseas
expansion through the acquisition of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s European and Asian businesses.  Nomura’s pretax loss from overseas operations in the
quarter ended June 30 widened 13 percent from a year earlier to
13.7 billion yen ($140 million) because of the weaker yen and
costs related to retiring staff, the company said in July. Total
net income for the period surged to 65.9 billion yen from 1.9
billion yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  