-- Obama Tells Netanyahu Will Press Iran for Action
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-09-30T18:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/obama-tells-netanyahu-will-press-iran-for-action.html
President  Barack Obama  said he
assured Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  that the U.S.
will demand  Iran  follow conciliatory words with verifiable
action in the standoff over the Islamic Republic’s nuclear
program and that he hasn’t excluded using military force.  “It is absolutely clear that words are not sufficient,”
Obama said at the conclusion of a White House meeting with
Netanyahu today. “We take no options off the table, including
military options.”  The Israeli leader has pushed the U.S. to keep up pressure
on Iran. Recent statements from Iranian President Hassan Rouhani
must be matched by “real actions” that lead to the dismantling
of Iran’s nuclear program, he said.  “Iran is committed to  Israel ’s destruction,” Netanyahu
said.  Netanyahu met with Obama in  Washington  a day before he
addresses the  United Nations General Assembly  in  New York , the
forum where a year ago he said Israel can’t abide Iran’s
development of a nuclear bomb. Netanyahu has voiced skepticism
about Iran’s motives for reaching out to Obama and the West, and
urged U.S. and international leaders not to be fooled.  During his visit to the UN in New York last week, Rouhani
expressed interest in renewed discussions that might ease the
international sanctions imposed to dissuade Iran from developing
nuclear weapons. Iran denies it is seeking to do so, saying its
enrichment program is for peaceful purposes.  Obama Call  The result of recent overtures from Rouhani was a Sept. 27
conversation with Obama, the highest-level U.S.-Iranian
encounter since before Iran’s Islamic revolution of 1979.  “The Iranians are now prepared it appears to negotiate,”
Obama said today. “We have to test diplomacy.”  He said it is “imperative” that Iran not get a nuclear
weapon, a step that would destabilize the  Middle East  and be a
threat to global security.  The prospect of a diplomatic solution to the confrontation
with Iran, holder of the world’s fourth-biggest proven oil
reserves, helped bring down crude prices. West Texas
Intermediate crude for November delivery decreased $1.06, or 1
percent, to $101.81 a barrel at 12:54 p.m. on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Prices have slid 5.4 percent this month.  Obama and Netanyahu sought to demonstrate a unified stance
in the approach to possible negotiations with the Iranian
government.  More Cooperation  Obama’s relations with Netanyahu have been strengthened in
the past year with improved cooperation, said  Zalman Shoval , a
former Israeli ambassador to the U.S. who advises Netanyahu on
Israeli-U.S. relations.  “The relationship between Prime Minster Netanyahu and
President Obama is better than it’s ever been,” he said. “The
start of peace talks with the Palestinians has helped
Netanyahu’s position vis-a-vis the White House, and that only
improves when members of his cabinet or party criticize him on
the negotiations.  ‘‘Both Israel and the U.S. have come to understand that
they have so much in common on the real issues in the Middle
East,’’ he said. ‘‘The tension we saw a few years ago between
the two leaders was before the Syrian situation, the Egyptian
situation, and both sides understand now they need each other
more.’’  ‘Red Lines’  A year ago, Netanyahu stood before the UN General Assembly
displaying a cartoon diagram of a bomb after openly disagreeing
with the Obama administration about how to curb  Iran’s nuclear
program . He said there were ‘‘red lines’’ that would trigger
military action if Iran crossed them.  In the months that followed, Obama and Netanyahu each won
re-election and set about improving their relationship. When
Obama traveled to Israel in March, the two men embraced and made
mutually supportive public statements.  Netanyahu has said he was ‘‘absolutely convinced’’ of
Obama’s resolve to prevent Iran from building a nuclear bomb.  Today he told Obama he wanted to express ‘‘my appreciation
to you for the  enormous work that’s been done to have a
sanctions regime in place to thwart Iran’s pursuit of nuclear
weapons. I believe that it’s the combination of a credible
military threat and the pressure of those sanctions that have
brought Iran to the negotiating table.”  New Relationship  Aaron David Miller , a vice president at the Wilson Center
in Washington and Middle East adviser to several U.S.
administrations, said while Rouhani’s outreach does create some
new tension, the Obama-Netanyahu visit is “a reflection of a
much-improved relationship between the two” and “by and large,
I think this relationship has gotten over its dysfunctional
stage.”  Rouhani threatens Netanyahu’s “internal analysis and his
public narrative about evil mullahs. But those worries aside,
the odds of a U.S. deal with the mullahs that undercuts Israel
on the nuclear issue and leaves them unhappy, nervous and out in
the cold are slim to none. No matter how desperate or intrigued
Obama may be for a deal with Iran, he can’t and won’t sacrifice
the Israelis on the altar of that expediency,” he said.  Netanyahu’s tough response to Rouhani’s overtures has drawn
some criticism internationally and within Israel, even from
members of his government. Finance Minister Yair Lapid, whose
Yesh Atid party is the second-biggest faction in Netanyahu’s
Likud-led coalition, said the prime minister’s decision to have
the Israeli UN delegation walk out on  Rouhani’s General
Assembly speech made Israel look like “a serial refuser of
negotiations, as being not interested in solutions on the road
to peace.”  Danny Ayalon, a former deputy foreign minister and ex-ambassador to the U.S., said, “Israel’s main concern is a
repetition of the U.S. experience with  North Korea .”  “During the 1990s, North Korea was in the same position as
Iran now, and the U.S. offered them a path of nuclear
disarmament, allowing them only civilian nuclear use,” he said.
“And despite this, the North Koreans continued to develop a
bomb and eventually tested it. So we’ve been here before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Washington at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  