-- Obama Meets Netanyahu as Warmer Relations Face Iran Test
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-09-30T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/obama-meets-netanyahu-as-warmer-relations-face-iran-test.html
President  Barack Obama  and Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu meet today as the contacts
between Obama and Iran’s president test the improved
relationship of the U.S. and Israeli leaders.  Netanyahu is visiting Obama in Washington a day before he
addresses the United Nations General Assembly in New York, the
forum where a year ago he said Israel can’t abide Iran’s
development of a nuclear bomb. Netanyahu has voiced skepticism
about Iran’s motives for reaching out to Obama and the West, and
urged U.S. and international leaders not to be fooled.  “I will tell the truth in the face of the sweet-talk and
the onslaught of smiles,” Netanyahu told reporters in Israel
yesterday before boarding his plane to the U.S. “Telling the
truth today is vital for the security and peace of the world
and, of course, it is vital for the security of the State of
 Israel .”  The White House talks also coincide with U.S.-led efforts
to push forward Israel’s peace process with the Palestinians and
the removal of chemical weapons from  Syria , on Israel’s
northeastern border.  The Sept. 27 call between Obama and Iranian President
Hassan Rouhani was the highest-level U.S.-Iranian encounter
since before Iran’s Islamic revolution of 1979.  During his visit to the UN in New York last week, Rouhani
expressed interest in renewed discussions that might ease the
international sanctions imposed to dissuade Iran from developing
nuclear weapons. Iran denies it is seeking to do so, saying its
enrichment program is for peaceful purposes.  Keeping Sanctions  Obama said after the phone call with the Iranian leader
that there may be the “basis for a resolution” on the nuclear
program and that Rouhani “indicated that  Iran  will never
develop nuclear weapons.”  Sanctions on Iran will remain in effect until Iran
satisfies UN Security Council resolutions and commits to only
seeking nuclear power for peaceful purposes, Obama’s national
security adviser, Susan Rice, said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria
GPS” program broadcast yesterday.  “We and others in the international community have every
reason to be skeptical of that and we need to test it, and any
agreement must be fully verifiable and enforceable,” Rice said.  Obama’s relations with Netanyahu have been strengthened in
the past year with improved cooperation, said Zalman Shoval, a
former Israeli ambassador to the U.S. who advises Netanyahu on
Israeli-U.S. relations.  In Common  “The relationship between Prime Minster Netanyahu and
President Obama is better than it’s ever been,” he said. “The
start of peace talks with the Palestinians has helped
Netanyahu’s position vis-a-vis the White House, and that only
improves when members of his cabinet or party criticize him on
the negotiations.  “Both Israel and the U.S. have come to understand that
they have so much in common on the real issues in the Middle
East,” he said. “The tension we saw a few years ago between
the two leaders was before the Syrian situation, the Egyptian
situation, and both sides understand now they need each other
more.”  A year ago, Netanyahu stood before the UN General Assembly
displaying a cartoon diagram of a bomb after openly disagreeing
with the Obama administration about how to curb Iran’s nuclear
program. He said there were “red lines” that would trigger
military action if Iran crossed them.  In the months that followed, Obama and Netanyahu each won
re-election and set about improving their relationship. When
Obama traveled to Israel in March, the two men embraced and made
mutually supportive public statements.  ‘Absolutely Convinced’  Netanyahu said he was “absolutely convinced” of Obama’s
resolve to prevent Iran from building a nuclear bomb. Obama
placed wreaths at the graves of Theodor Herzl, the father of
modern political Zionism, and Yitzhak Rabin, the Israeli prime
minister who was assassinated by a Jewish opponent of his
landmark accords with the Palestinians.  Dennis Ross, Obama’s former adviser on Iran who is now a
counselor at the  Washington  Institute for Near East Policy, said
Rouhani “has launched a charm offensive.” Netanyahu will be
asking, “Where’s the beef? He’s going to want to have a sense
of what the strategy is and how it’s changed” for the U.S.  “I expect the president to say, ’Look, I’m not going to be
fooled by smiles; I’m not going to be taken in by cosmetic
moves,’” Ross said.  Improved Relationship  Aaron David Miller, a vice president at the Wilson Center
in Washington and Middle East adviser to several U.S.
administrations, said while Rouhani’s outreach does create some
new tension, the Obama-Netanyahu visit is “a reflection of a
much-improved relationship between the two” and “by and large,
I think this relationship has gotten over its dysfunctional
stage.”  Rouhani threatens Netanyahu’s “own internal analysis and
his public narrative about evil mullahs. But those worries
aside, the odds of a U.S. deal with the mullahs that undercuts
Israel on the nuclear issue and leaves them unhappy, nervous and
out in the cold are slim to none. No matter how desperate or
intrigued Obama may be for a deal with Iran, he can’t and won’t
sacrifice the Israelis on the altar of that expediency,” he
said.  Netanyahu’s tough response to Rouhani’s overtures has drawn
some criticism internationally and within Israel, even from
members of his government. Finance Minister Yair Lapid, whose
Yesh Atid party is the second-biggest faction in Netanyahu’s
Likud-led coalition, said the prime minister’s decision to have
the Israeli UN delegation walk out on Rouhani’s General Assembly
speech made Israel look like “a serial refuser of negotiations,
as being not interested in solutions on the road to peace.”  Danny Ayalon, a former deputy foreign minister and ex-ambassador to the U.S., said, “Israel’s main concern is a
repetition of the U.S. experience with North Korea.”  “During the 1990s, North Korea was in the same position as
Iran now, and the U.S. offered them a path of nuclear
disarmament, allowing them only civilian nuclear use,” he said.
“And despite this, the North Koreans continued to develop a
bomb and eventually tested it. So we’ve been here before.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in New York at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  