-- OGX Upheaval Portends Deeper Bond Loss for Pimco: Brazil Credit
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y ,   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-09-30T15:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/ogx-upheaval-portends-deeper-bond-loss-for-pimco-brazil-credit.html
In the past 10 days,  Eike Batista 
fired his chief financial officer and hired his fifth
restructuring adviser as the ex-billionaire tries to save  OGX
Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA. (OGXP3)   That’s left bondholders with even deeper losses as the
company careens toward Latin America’s biggest corporate
default. The oil producer’s $2.56 billion of debt due 2018 has
tumbled 5.3 cents to 15 cents on the dollar since Sept. 20, when
it announced the departure of Roberto Monteiro, who had led
negotiations with creditors. Four days later, the Rio de
Janeiro-based company hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  to work alongside
advisers including  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in the talks.  Pessimism that bondholders led by Pacific Investment
Management Co. can recoup their money is deepening as OGX is set
to miss a $45 million interest payment due tomorrow, according
to two people with direct knowledge of the plan. If OGX can’t
persuade creditors or other partners to provide debt relief and
an immediate infusion of funds, bondholders may end up with
nothing, JPMorgan Chase & Co said. The notes have already
plunged 74.9 cents this year, the most in  emerging markets , as
OGX missed production targets and depleted its cash.  “It’s negative for the credit,” Marco Aurelio de Sa, the
head of fixed-income trading at  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s Miami
brokerage unit, said in a telephone interview. “If you’re
changing the common line at the peak of the credit negotiations,
it shows there are major disagreements between management and
the controlling shareholder.”  Delay Agreement  OGX declined to comment on the status of bondholder
negotiations, international debt payment plans or Monteiro’s
firing. Parent EBX Group Co. didn’t respond to an e-mailed
request seeking comment.  The company’s decision last week to postpone payments on
2.1 billion reais ($932 million) of local bonds held by its OGX
Austria unit means the oil producer will not pay the Oct. 1
coupon on its $1.06 billion of dollar debt due 2022, said the
people with direct knowledge of the plan, who asked not to be
identified as the details haven’t been made public.  The unit agreed to delay a Sept. 25 payment for an
undisclosed amount until March 25, OGX said in a regulatory
filing.  The notes due 2022 fell two cents today to 15 cents on the
dollar as of 11:01 a.m. in  New York , according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  Burn Rate  Sao Paulo-based magazine Veja reported in its Sept. 28
“Radar” column that OGX and OSX, Batista’s provider of
services to the oil and gas industry, will file for  bankruptcy
protection  in two weeks, without saying how it got the
information.  While the companies’ press offices didn’t immediately
respond to phone calls and e-mails from Bloomberg News yesterday
seeking comment, OSX later commented in an e-mailed statement
that it’s unaware of a move to file for bankruptcy protection.  Batista’s flagship oil producer was set to run out of money
by early September based on its  burn rate  through the end of the
second quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  An OGX default would mark the latest in a string of
setbacks for Batista, who’s been struggling to raise funds to
keep the company from running out of money after his estimated
personal fortune plummeted 99 percent this year.  The company hired former Brasil Telecom CFO Paulo Narcelio Simoes Amaral last week to replace Monteiro. Chief Executive
Officer Luiz Carneiro said Sept. 12 that the company would
probably ask bondholders for more cash as part of a debt-restructuring plan.  Recovery Scenarios  Negotiations were going “very well,” he said at the time.  OGX will ask investors for at least $250 million in capital
as part of a restructuring of its $3.6 billion of bonds, two
people with direct knowledge of the situation told  Bloomberg
News  earlier this month.  The company wants the cash to continue operations long
enough to start pumping oil from its Tubarao Martelo field. OGX
declared extraction efforts at Tubarao Azul, its only producing
field, economically unviable in July.  A group of OGX creditors, led by Pimco, have hired
Rothschild Inc. as financial advisers and law firm  Cleary
Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  to represent them.  Pimco spokesman Michael Reid didn’t respond to telephone
and e-mail requests seeking comment.  “If the company cannot raise additional capital, the
potential value associated with Martelo may never be realized,”
Daniel Sensel, an analyst at JPMorgan, wrote in a report to
clients dated Sept. 19. “If OGX cannot find another source of
liquidity, we believe recovery could be zero.”  ‘Lose-Lose’  If OGX and its creditors can’t overcome obstacles including
how much capital to provide, how much of OGX that shareholders
would be left with, and what role, if any, Batista will have in
the company, negotiations could end without an agreement and a
“lose-lose bankruptcy filing,” according to the report.  JPMorgan cut its recommendation on the bonds to underweight
from neutral. Sensel declined to comment beyond the report.  In addition to Lazard and Blackstone, Batista has turned to
Sao Paulo-based Angra Partners and Grupo BTG Pactual this year
to help oversee the reorganization efforts for his holding
company and oil producer and to lead discussions with
stakeholders.  EBX hired Eduardo Gouvea Vieira, the former head of Rio de
Janeiro-based industry lobby group Firjan, in January as a vice
president to advise on restructuring the group.  ‘Real Incentives’  He left in March after Batista’s holding company reached a
partnership with BTG Pactual. The bank is no longer involved in
OGX’s restructuring, newspaper  Valor Economico  reported Sept. 6.  BTG Pactual is only advising the mining, electricity and
port companies that Batista controls or has stakes in, it said
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Daniel Kastholm, a managing director at  Fitch Ratings  in
 Chicago , said OGX and its stakeholders are likely to come to an
agreement to fund the company until production begins at
Martelo, which is located about 58 miles (93 kilometers) off the
coast of  Rio de Janeiro .  “At Martelo, there’s some real incentive to get that
producing,” Kastholm said in a telephone interview. “It’s
tougher to liquidate than you think. I’m assuming there’s going
to be an arm’s-length restructuring.”  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to own Brazilian
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries climbed three
basis points to 242 basis points today in New York, according to
JPMorgan index data.  The cost of protecting Brazilian bonds against default for
five years climbed six basis points to 180 basis points. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements.  The real gained 1.2 percent to 2.2255 per  U.S. dollar .
Yields on interest-rate futures contracts due in January rose
four basis points to 9.35 percent.  Brazil  ranks  143 out of 185  economies, below countries
including  Egypt , Argentina and Pakistan, when it comes to
settling insolvencies due to weaknesses in existing law and
procedural and administrative bottlenecks that slow
bankruptcies, according to the  World Bank ’s Doing Business
project.  The process takes about four years, more than twice as long
as in the U.S., while recovery rates average 15.9 cents on the
dollar versus 81.5 cents.  Monteiro’s ouster indicates Batista is seeking better terms
from creditors in negotiations, according to Fabiano Santin, a
fixed-income analyst at Kondor Invest in  Sao Paulo .  “The bondholders wouldn’t want to go into bankruptcy in
Brazil,” he said in a telephone interview. “They’ve already
been advised by lawyers that they have fewer rights in Brazil
than in the U.S. and should avoid it at all costs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in New York at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in Sao Paulo at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  