-- Oil Sands Deals Dive as State Firms Scrutinized
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-09-30T13:59:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/oil-sands-deals-dive-as-state-firms-scrutinized.html
Oil-sands deals are getting done at
the slowest pace in nine years as the Canadian government’s
heightened scrutiny of investments by foreign state-owned
companies hinders transactions.  Industry Canada officials are now vetting deals that don’t
require approval under the nation’s foreign-takeover law,
according to two people who have advised on transactions
involving state-owned companies. Even foreign investors not
usually deemed state owned are being asked to prove they aren’t
controlled or influenced by government, including whether the
state has the power to appoint directors, said another person
familiar with the process. The people asked not to be identified
as the details aren’t public.  The federal government is also probing more proposed
acquisitions involving state-owned firms to see if they pose a
threat to national security, said Julie Soloway, a partner at
Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP in Toronto.  “They are definitely digging deeper on these
transactions,” Soloway said in a phone interview on Sept. 12.  Mergers and acquisitions in the oil sands fell this year to
the lowest since 2004, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Smaller
developers including  Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH)  and  BlackPearl
Resources Inc. (PXX)  are lagging behind peers after the government
introduced rules to block state-owned buyers from purchasing
oil-sands companies. Athabasca fell 24 percent since the rules
were made public on Dec. 7, versus a 6.4 percent gain on the
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Energy Index.  Additional Challenge  “You’ve had companies that have taken a step back and
looked at what they can do and what they can’t do and I think a
few transactions that were going to proceed have not proceeded
because of this,” said George Gosbee, chief executive officer
of AltaCorp Capital Inc., a Calgary-based investment bank.  The additional government scrutiny adds to challenges
affecting Canadian energy stocks, including a slower economy in
 China  and pipeline shortages that have helped push Canadian
heavy crude prices to $31.20 a barrel  below  the U.S. benchmark.
Spot prices for Western Canadian Select, the heavy grade, closed
at $71.12 on Sept. 27, versus $102.32 for West Texas
Intermediate, according to figures compiled by Bloomberg.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce is examining whether the
added scrutiny is contributing to a drop in investment by state-owned companies in a sector that depends on foreign cash, Jim Prentice, vice chairman of the bank and a former Canadian
industry minister, said in Calgary.  ‘Energy Superpower’  “It behooves us to look at this and to assess what the
causes are and to make sure that, as a country, we’re careful,”
Prentice said in an interview on Sept. 18.  Prime Minister Stephen Harper, who has called Canada an
emerging “energy superpower,” is asserting control over the
nation’s resources after about $51 billion in investments by
state-owned firms in the Canadian oil and gas industry over the
last seven years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
nation’s oil sands in Alberta are the world’s third largest
source of crude reserves and the starting point for the proposed
Keystone XL pipeline to the U.S. Gulf Coast.  Canada in December approved  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion
acquisition of Calgary producer Nexen Inc., and the C$5.2
billion ($5.05 billion) purchase of Progress Energy Resources
Corp. by Petroliam Nasional Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s state-owned energy
company. At the same time, Harper said the government would
permit further purchases of oil-sands businesses by state-owned
enterprises only under “exceptional circumstances.”  ‘Perfect Storm’  The government, which already vets foreign takeovers above
C$344 million, also said it will “carefully monitor” deals
involving state-owned enterprises in the world’s 11th-largest
economy, and will “act to safeguard Canadian interests” when
it appears that such acquisitions will “undermine the private
sector orientation of an industry.”  The rules created a “perfect storm” to reduce deal
activity in the oil sands, where stocks had already been dragged
down by lower oil and gas prices, said Dan Cheng of Matco
Financial Inc., who helps manage C$430 million from Calgary.  Canadian energy companies have underperformed U.S. peers by
27 percentage points on Standard & Poor’s indexes during the
past five years, according to figures compiled by Bloomberg.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s $5.3 billion Keystone XL pipeline is in
its sixth year of U.S. review, a delay that has led to pipeline
bottlenecks. Economic growth in China, the world’s largest
energy consumer, is projected by analysts to rise 7.6 percent in
2013, the lowest annual increase since a 7.6 percent expansion
in 1999, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Voting Rights  Now Industry Canada is reviewing transactions involving
state-owned enterprises that fall below the C$344 million
threshold that triggers an automatic review, according to two
people familiar with discussions with the department.  All foreign investors are also now being asked a set of
questions on state control, including whether a state owns a
third or more of the investor’s voting rights and whether a
government has the power to appoint managers and members of the
company’s board, said one of the people familiar with the talks.  Industry Minister James Moore said foreign takeovers have
been “elevated to a new degree of sensitivity” since the Nexen
and Progress decisions.  “This is something that has greater attention than ever
before, and we want to make sure that any decision is given the
weight and consideration that it’s due and the department is
allocating the resources and talent to these kinds of
decisions,” Moore said in an interview last month at his Ottawa
office.  Pipeline Venture  TransCanada and a unit of  PetroChina Co. (857)  said in October
they would work together on a C$3 billion ($2.9 billion) oil
pipeline through Alberta. After Harper announced the new
foreign-takeover rules in December, the government asked the
companies to halt the project while it examined the deal on
national security grounds, said a person familiar with the
issue.  The review surprised company officials, because the
government initially welcomed the project, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the discussions aren’t
public. The project didn’t involve oil-sands production and was
a joint venture, not a takeover.  The pipeline is still on schedule, said Davis Sheremata, a
TransCanada spokesman, declining to comment on discussions with
governments. Mao Zefeng, a spokesman in Beijing for PetroChina,
the publicly traded arm of state-owned China National Petroleum
Corp., said by phone the company has no comment on the project.  Athabasca, BlackPearl  Industry Canada’s media relations office didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment on the department’s scrutiny of
transactions involving state-owned enterprises, including the
deal between TransCanada and PetroChina.  The C$751 million purchase by Exxon Mobil Corp. and
Imperial Oil Ltd. of ConocoPhillips’ Clyden property in  Alberta 
marked the first “significant” oil-sands transaction in 2013,
according to a report this month by Peters & Co., a Calgary
investment adviser. The deal activity compares with $16.1
billion in mergers and acquisitions involving the oil sands last
year, including the Nexen takeover.  Investors betting on an Athabasca Oil takeover have left
the stock, Andre De Leebeeck, a company spokesman, said in a
phone interview.  BlackPearl has had similar share price declines to
Athabasca, falling 35 percent since the rules were announced.
John Festival, chief executive officer of the company, didn’t
return a phone message seeking comment.  Seeking Clarity  Athabasca, which did two joint venture deals with
PetroChina in the oil sands, has been seeking clarity for months
on how the government defines control by a state-owned company
to speed talks on potential new partnerships, De Leebeeck said.  Canada’s new foreign-takeover policies were more stringent
than expected and have resulted in lower investment from state-owned companies even outside the oil sands, said John Brussa,
vice chairman at Burnet, Duckworth & Palmer LLP in Calgary.  “That policy came a bit out of left field,” Brussa said.
“It’s made the SOEs quite reticent to stick their toe in the
water, generally,” he said, referring to state-owned
enterprises.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  