-- London Mayor Sees ‘Colossal’ Congestion From New Heathrow Runway
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-09-30T10:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/london-mayor-sees-colossal-congestion-from-new-heathrow-runway.html
London Mayor  Boris Johnson  said
building a third runway at the U.K. capital’s Heathrow airport,
the busiest in  Europe , would lead to “colossal” road
congestion and overcrowding on trains.  The mayor’s comments, in a submission to the government-appointed panel that’s examining how to expand airport capacity
in southeast England, are intended to support his case for a new
hub to the east or north of the capital.  “The people who run Heathrow are greatly underestimating
the effect of a third runway on the local transport network,”
Johnson said. “They appear to be completely unconcerned about
having cooked up a recipe for colossal levels of congestion that
sentence their passengers and Londoners to years of misery.”  An extra runway at the existing airport would lead to more
than 25 million additional road journeys a year, the mayor said
in an e-mailed statement. That would require extra lanes on the
M4 highway leading west out of  London , while the M25 orbital
motorway would need to be rerouted and put in a tunnel under the
new landing strip. Including other road works, the cost might
rise to 12 billion pounds ($19 billion), according to Johnson.
New rail infrastructure might cost 10 billion pounds, he said.  Johnson has said Heathrow should be replaced by one of two
undeveloped sites in the Thames estuary or by an expanded
Stansted airport, 35 miles (55 kilometers) northeast of London.  The state-appointed Davies Commission on how to expand
airport capacity is due to issue its final recommendation after
the 2015 general election.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in Manchester,  England , at  ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  