-- Hong Kong Stocks Decline Amid U.S. Government Shutdown Concern
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-09-30T01:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/hong-kong-stocks-decline-amid-u-s-government-shutdown-concern.html
Hong Kong  stocks  fell, with the
benchmark index heading for its steepest decline in a month,
amid concern that the U.S. budget impasse will lead to a
government shutdown.  The  Hang Seng Index  decreased 1.2 percent to 22,932.72 as
of 9:32 a.m. in Hong Kong, paring its biggest monthly gain since
September 2012. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , also
known as the H-share index, dropped 1.1 percent. The city’s
markets are shut tomorrow for a holiday, while today is the last
day of trading for mainland markets until Oct. 8.  Stocks slumped across Asia after the  U.S. Congress  left
itself just one day to end a budget stalemate that raises the
risk of the first government shutdown in 17 years. The  Hang Seng
Index (HSI)  climbed 12 percent this quarter through Sept. 27, after
losing 8.2 percent in the first half of the year, as data from
 China  signaled the world’s second-largest economy is
strengthening and the  Federal Reserve  unexpectedly refrained
from cutting stimulus.  Hong Kong’s equity benchmark traded at 11.1 times estimated
earnings at the end of last week, compared with 15.4 for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Futures on the U.S. equity gauge slumped 0.8 percent today.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics may today confirm
that their manufacturing purchasing managers’ index for China
delivered a reading of 51.2 for September, a six-month high.
Fifty is the threshold between contraction and expansion. China
releases its  official  manufacturing PMI tomorrow, with
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicting an increase to 51.6
from 51 in August.  China inaugurated the Shanghai free trade zone yesterday,
with the region to be subject to more relaxed financial and
investment controls. Citigroup Inc. and Bank of China Ltd.
announced that they will participate in the zone.  Hong Kong  can benefit from China’s reforms, Chief Executive
Leung Chun-ying said at a briefing, according to a transcript
posted on the government website last week, in response to the
setting up of Shanghai free-trade zone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  