-- Top Draghi Adviser Thimann to Leave ECB After 15 Years
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-09-30T15:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/top-draghi-adviser-thimann-to-leave-ecb-after-15-years.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi ’s top adviser on monetary policy, Christian Thimann, has resigned after 15 years at the institution.  Thimann, 47, will leave his post officially at the end of
December, a spokeswoman for the Frankfurt-based ECB said today.
Die Welt reported that he will join the executive committee of
French insurer  AXA SA (CS)  from Jan. 1.  Thimann, who has worked at the ECB since its founding year
of 1998, served as adviser to the president first under  Jean-Claude Trichet  from 2008, and then Draghi from 2011. Rarely in
the public eye, the economist has advised the board through
every major policy move to ease  Europe ’s debt crisis, from the
first Greek bond purchases in 2010 to the unveiling last year of
Outright Monetary Transactions, the still-untapped program to
buy the sovereign debt of stressed nations.  “I want to thank Christian Thimann personally and on
behalf of the ECB for his outstanding contribution to our
work,” Draghi said in a statement by the ECB. “Throughout
several years he advised the president and the executive board
with high professional competence and integrity.”  Even as the ECB provided banks with a record level of
liquidity since late 2011, the central bank hasn’t lost its
ability to keep inflation in check, Thimann wrote in an article
published on VoxEU.org in March 2012. “Should potential
inflationary pressures arise, the ECB Governing Council has all
the tools available to counter them,” Thimann said.  Prior to his official position as Counsel to the Executive
Board, Thimann headed two divisions at the ECB, first in charge
of European Union accession issues and then from 2004 in charge
of international monetary policy analysis. Born in Berlin in
1966, Thimann studied economics at the University of Bonn, the
 London School of Economics  and obtained a Ph.D from the
University of Munich under Professor Hans-Werner Sinn.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  