-- Osborne Pledges Tories Would Run U.K. Budget Surplus by 2020
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-09-30T14:33:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/osborne-pledges-tories-will-deliver-u-k-budget-surplus-by-2020.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  pledged to run a  budget surplus  by 2020 to help bring
down U.K. government debt if his  Conservative Party  is re-elected in 2015.  He told the Conservatives’ annual conference today in
Manchester, northern England, that the goal will require
discipline over spending and details of the new fiscal mandate
will be announced next year.  Capital spending  will grow in line
with gross domestic product, he said.  “When we’ve dealt with Labour’s deficit, we will have a
surplus in good times as insurance against difficult times
ahead,” he said. “Provided the recovery is sustained our goal
is to achieve that surplus in the next Parliament.” The
government will “fix the roof while the sun is shining.”  With the economy set as the battleground for the next
election, Osborne is seeking to contrast the Conservative-led
government’s management of the public finances with that of its
Labour predecessor. A YouGov Plc poll published yesterday gave
Labour an 11 percentage-point lead over the Tories after leader
 Ed Miliband  pledged last week to freeze energy prices until
2017. The pollster had the two parties tied on Sept. 18.  “It effectively boxes Labour in,” said Tim Bale,
professor of politics at Queen Mary University in London. “If
they sign up to it, they can’t announce spending plans without
simultaneously announcing matching cuts. If Labour refuse to
sign up, it allows Osborne to say they want to keep on running a
deficit.”  Missed Targets  Weaker-than-forecast tax receipts forced Osborne to abandon
his original goal of finishing his deficit-reduction program by
2015. Instead, austerity is set to continue until 2018, with the
 Office for Budget Responsibility  predicting there will still be
a deficit at that time. The fiscal watchdog is due to update its
forecasts later this year.  With the recovery only just starting to gather pace,
Osborne’s promise is “wildly optimistic,” said Neville Hill,
an economist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  London  and a former
Treasury official.  “They should probably get on with reinstating plan A
before they start with plan A*,” he said. “It will take them a
while to get rid of the deficit. It’s talking tough without
doing anything about it. It would require an enormous amount of
fiscal tightening which politically will be very hard to
implement.”  OBR Forecasts  Based on OBR forecasts published in March, Britain will
still be in deficit by about 43 billion pounds ($69 billion) in
2017-18, or 2.3 percent of GDP. The country has run surpluses in
only seven of the past 50 years, and three of last 20. They were
the years between 1998 and 2001 during the first term of  Tony Blair ’s Labour government.  Osborne has reduced the deficit from a post-World War II
high of 11 percent of GDP when he took office in 2010 to 7.4
percent, or 116 billion pounds, in the year through March,
according to the  Office for National Statistics .  In the first five months of the current fiscal year, the
deficit narrowed to 46.8 billion pounds from 50.5 billion
pounds, putting Osborne on course to undershoot the 120 billion
pound-shortfall forecast by the OBR in March.  Net debt was 1.19
trillion pounds in August, or 74.6 percent of GDP. That’s up
from 71.5 percent a year earlier.  “Only if we properly control public expenditure will we be
able to keep lowering taxes,” Osborne said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja o’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@blooomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in Manchester,  England  at  rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  