-- Motorola Mobility Responds to EU Antitrust Regulators at Hearing
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-09-30T12:19:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/motorola-mobility-responds-to-eu-antitrust-regulators-at-hearing.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s  Motorola Mobility (MMI) 
unit will respond to European Union accusations that it used
patents to hinder competitors, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The European Commission organized a day-long oral hearing
on the matter taking place today in Brussels, said Katie Dove, a
spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility.  The EU antitrust regulator in May sent a formal complaint
to Motorola Mobility saying it suspects the company, which
Google bought last year for $12.4 billion, is abusing its
dominant position by “seeking and enforcing” injunctions
against Apple in  Germany  based on its patents that are essential
for products to comply with industry technical standards.  The EU opened a formal probe into Motorola Mobility, which
makes smartphones that run on Google’s Android software, in
April 2012, following complaints by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Apple.
They accused Motorola Mobility of seeking injunctions to block
their use of patents they said the Google unit had declared
essential for the production of standard-compliant products and
had promised to license on terms that are “fair, reasonable and
non-discriminatory.”  Antoine Colombani, an EU spokesman, declined to comment,
saying that hearings are confidential.  After receiving the commission’s objections, companies can
defend themselves in writing or at an oral hearing before the
EU’s antitrust authority decides to impose fines.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s biggest maker of
smartphones, offered to settle a similar probe by the EU into
its hold on so-called standard-essential patents, EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said last week. The EU is reviewing
the offer, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  