-- How Union Law Hurts a Nonunion Auto Plant
-- B y   J a m e s   S h e r k
-- 2013-09-30T15:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/how-union-law-hurts-a-nonunion-auto-plant.html
Volkswagen Group of America’s plant
in Chattanooga,  Tennessee , has experienced something unusual: a
union welcomed by management but faced with  resistance  from some
workers. A combination of outdated labor laws and union
intransigence has created this oddity.  German law requires “works councils” in which management
and labor groups meet to collaboratively sort out workplace
issues. Consequently, there is a works council at every
Volkswagen plant -- except the  one  in Chattanooga. Now, under
pressure from IG Metall, the German union,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
headquarters has decided it wants a works council in the U.S.,
too.  But there’s a hitch. U.S. labor laws prohibit companies
from discussing working conditions with employee representatives
-- unless they belong to outside unions. In the 1930s, Congress
feared businesses would create bogus “company unions” to keep
union organizers at bay, so it banned “management-dominated”
 labor organizations .  This outlaws even innocuous employee-involvement programs.
For example, Webcor Packaging Corp., based in Flint,  Michigan ,
created a council of elected employees and appointed managers to
suggest improvements to its work rules, wages and benefits. The
company wanted their employees’ input, yet the government
 ordered  the council disbanded. If American workers want a voice
on the job, they must speak through a union.  German Pressure  This restriction makes little sense today. Few businesses
feel the need to ward off organizing drives with company unions.
Even without them, private-sector union membership has fallen to
 below 7 percent . While many companies want their employees’
input in workplace decision-making, they can’t create works
councils unless they also want all-out collective bargaining.  Most companies won’t risk the downsides of unionizing to
get an employee-involvement program. The pressure from  IG Metall 
has made Volkswagen the exception. The  United Auto Workers  wants
to  unionize  the Chattanooga plant and create a legal works
council. Volkswagen’s senior management has welcomed this
overture with open arms.  A group of rank-and-file Volkswagen  workers  in Tennessee
has been less enthusiastic. They are aware that almost every job
lost in the  auto industry  over the past three decades has been a
union job. With rare exceptions, nonunion auto plants have
avoided mass layoffs, while unionized facilities have downsized
again and again. Hopping on that bandwagon holds little appeal.
These employees have printed and distributed anti-UAW handouts,
held meetings and  created  a website urging their fellow workers
to vote “no.”  The UAW says it has majority support for union
representation based on publicly signed cards. But  some workers 
at the Chattanooga plant claim the UAW misled them about what
signing the cards meant, and several have  filed charges  with the
 National Labor Relations Board .  For the UAW, whose  membership  has plummeted to less than
400,000 from 1.5 million in 1979, the stakes are enormous. In
announcing a push to organize Southern automakers a few years
ago, UAW President  Bob King   said : “If we don’t organize these
transnationals, I don’t think there’s a long-term future for the
UAW. I really don’t.”  While unionizing Volkswagen would obviously benefit the
UAW, it is less clear how it would benefit the workers. They
already  make  slightly more than UAW pay scales in  Detroit . If
the union used its power as a cartel to raise wages too much, it
would make Volkswagen’s cars less competitive and put their jobs
at risk. And in that event, workers for foreign car companies
can’t hope for a government bailout.  Unreasonable Union  Further, the UAW’s reputation for being unreasonable is
well earned. The union’s contracts foisted a so-called jobs bank
on  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and  Chrysler Group LLC .
This provision, which the UAW insisted on until the auto
bailout, forced the companies to pay almost full wages to laid-off workers. The automakers spent billions  paying  ex-employees
to fill out crossword puzzles.  The UAW also makes removing poor performers almost
impossible, a policy that encourages costly absenteeism. It even
got Chrysler workers who were suspended for smoking pot on the
job  reinstated .  UAW work rules further hamper productivity. Before GM’s
restructuring, each plant had as many as 15 categories of
workers, all strictly prohibited from doing one another’s jobs.
If one worker’s absence stopped the assembly line, a worker of
another type could not step up to the plate. In the 2000s, it
took GM 6 percent to 17 percent more man-hours to produce a
vehicle than it took for Toyota Motor Corp.  The union swears that it has changed, and that its works
council will improve productivity. But workers would have to
take the UAW’s word for it. The law won’t stop the union from
negotiating a broader collective-bargaining agreement.  Many Volkswagen workers -- correctly -- look warily at the
experience of Volkswagen’s only other U.S. plant, in New
Stanton,  Pennsylvania . The UAW organized the plant in 1978.
Almost immediately, the workers went on strike. The plant
lurched from strike to strike and shut down 10 years later. All
the union members lost their jobs; the plant could not survive
profitably as a UAW operation.  This story has repeated itself at many UAW operations. A
decade ago, General Motors employed  120,000  union members. Now
it  has 50,000 . Employment at nonunion automakers  held steady 
over that time.  Volkswagen’s employees in Tennessee have a good thing
going. Some want more say in the workplace, but others fear
winding up like New Stanton.  They should not have to make that choice. Congress should
reform U.S.  labor laws  to allow employee participation --
without requiring that an outside union get involved. Why should
the government prevent companies from giving their workers a
voice on the job?  (James Sherk is the senior policy analyst in labor
economics at the  Heritage Foundation .)  To contact the writer of this article:
James Sherk at  james.sherk@heritage.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 