-- Moyes Ignored Ferguson Advice on Staff, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-09-30T07:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/moyes-ignored-ferguson-advice-on-staff-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Advice Ignored  Manchester United manager David Moyes ignored advice from
predecessor Alex Ferguson to retain his coaching assistants when
he took over at Old Trafford, the  Sun reported .  Ferguson is said to have advised Moyes to keep coaches
including Rene Meulensteen at the club, though the new manager
chose to bring in his own support staff, the newspaper added.  United is currently 12th in the standings with seven
points, its fewest after six games in a Premier League season.  West Brom Duo  West Bromwich Albion wants to make Marseille midfielder
Morgan Amalfitano’s loan permanent after he scored one goal and
assisted the other in the Baggies’ 2-1 win at United two days
ago, the  Daily Mirror reported .  West Brom striker Saido Berahino, whom Amalfitano set up
for the winning goal at Old Trafford, currently earns 850 pounds
($1,371) a week, the  Mirror added .  Battle for Bender  United may compete with Arsenal in trying to sign Bayer
Leverkusen midfielder Lars Bender in the January transfer
window, the  Daily Star reported .  Arsenal already had a bid of 18.5 million pounds rejected
for the 24-year-old “box-to-box” player, the newspaper added.  Torres Trouble  Fernando Torres’s one-game ban for getting a red card at
Tottenham Hotspur two days ago may be extended to four matches
if the Chelsea striker is found guilty of violent conduct for
gouging Jan Vertonghen’s face, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  A four-match ban would rule Torres out of Premier League
games against Norwich City, Cardiff City and Manchester City,
and a League Cup clash with Arsenal, the newspaper added.  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  