-- Toyota Chairman Says Hybrids More Than Short-Term Bridge
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-10-01T00:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/toyota-chairman-urges-automakers-to-bolster-hybrid-sales-in-u-s-.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Chairman Takeshi Uchiyamada, who headed development of the Prius, said automakers
should step up their efforts on hybrids so cumulative U.S. sales
will reach 5 million in three years.  “It’s only when we put ourselves under the same kind of
intense pressure we faced in developing the Prius that we can
achieve great goals,” Uchiyamada said at the Economic Club of
Washington yesterday, in his first U.S. speech as chairman. “I
wish to call on the industry to sell 5 million hybrids in the
U.S. by the end of 2016.”  That’s 72 percent more than the 2.9 million hybrids sold in
the U.S. until August, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance
estimates. The Toyota City, Japan-based carmaker is the world’s
largest producer of gasoline-electric hybrids, with the company
estimating to have sold more than 3 million Prius vehicles since
they first went on sale in 1997.  “Some people say hybrid vehicles such as the Prius are
only a bridge to the future,” Uchiyamada said. “But we think
it could be a long bridge and a very sturdy one.”  Longer term, the company is betting on hydrogen fuel cell
vehicles. The company plans to offer a fuel-cell sedan in 2015.  “Perhaps 15 years from now, we can meet again here in
Washington and we will know exactly which system has
prevailed,” said Uchiyamada, who’s known within Toyota as the
“father of the Prius.” “By that time, if I am still around, I
may be the great-grandfather.”  Fuel Cells  General Motors Co. (GM)  announced yesterday it’s expanding a
fuel-cell research partnership with the U.S. Army Tank
Automotive Research, Development and Engineering Center.  Toyota doesn’t plan to build hydrogen stations even though
the company sees the infrastructure as “another large hurdle”
for fuel-cell cars, as charging stations are for electric
vehicles, Uchiyamada told reporters after the speech.  “We’re not an infrastructure company, so we can’t make the
infrastructure ourselves,” he said. “Fuel-cell vehicles will
penetrate to a certain degree but maybe not as much as hybrid
vehicles.”  Toyota is also making progress in developing autonomous
vehicles, Uchiyamada said, while cautioning that the first ones
won’t allow drivers to “ drink champagne and have fun” behind
the wheel.  “The cars that are being tested right now, development is
not being done to create that kind of driverless car,” he said.
“At the end, each and every one of you will have the
responsibility to drive that car.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  