-- Pacific Rubiales to Acquire Petrominerales for $909 Million
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   A n d r e w   W i l l i s
-- 2013-09-30T22:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/pacific-rubiales-agrees-to-buy-petrominerales-for-907-million.html
Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PREC) 
agreed to buy  Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG)  for C$935 million ($909
million) in cash as the world’s fastest-growing major crude
producer seeks to reduce transport costs in  Colombia .  Petrominerales stockholders will receive C$11 a share and
one share in a newly formed exploration and production company,
Bogota-based Pacific Rubiales said yesterday in a statement.
That’s 42 percent more than where Calgary-based Petrominerales
was trading before its stock was halted Sept. 27. Pacific will
also assume C$640 million in debt, including convertible bonds.  Pacific Rubiales, listed in Toronto and Bogota, made at
least 10  acquisitions  of companies and oil block stakes over the
past two years. The latest deal will give it access to low-density crude, which is cheaper to transport than the heavy oil
that makes up the bulk of its reserves.  “This is a natural fit,” David Neuhauser, a managing
director at Livermore Partners Inc., said by e-mail on Sept. 27,
before the deal was announced. “Pacific needs the light oil,
and Petrominerales needs the capital to develop their vast
acreage.”  Pacific shares fell 3.4 percent to 37,460 pesos in Bogota
today, while Petrominerales surged 36 percent to 21,500 pesos.  “We see important strategy drivers for the transaction,
but price seems to be high,” Caio Carvalhal and Felipe dos
Santos, analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note. “The
market was not expecting such a large acquisition now, but
rather Pacific Rubiales to focus on digesting the acquisitions
concluded in 2012.”  Pipelines Stakes  Pacific plans to pay some of the debt held by
Petrominerales by spinning off infrastructure assets held by the
two companies in a private placement, Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Pantin told reporters in Bogota today.  Assets in the new company will include stakes in the Ocensa
and Bicentenario pipelines, with Pacific planning to sell an
initial 40 percent, Pantin said.  The total value of the deal, including net debt, is about
C$1.6 billion, Petrominerales said in a statement.
Petrominerales holders will also receive one share in ExploreCo,
which is being formed with the company’s Brazilian assets and
C$100 million in cash.  The deal needs regulatory approval and will be financed
with a $1.3 billion  bank loan , plus cash. A unit of Bank of
America Corp. advised Pacific Rubiales. TD Securities Inc.
advised Petrominerales.  Fastest Growth  Pacific’s compound  production growth  over the last five
years is 47 percent, the fastest among 109 producers with a
market value of at least $5 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The group average is 8.4 percent growth, the data
show.  Petrominerales, which produces mostly from fields in
Colombia’s Llanos basin, reported a 31 percent decline in
second-quarter output. Pacific had 514 million barrels of proved
and probable reserves by the end of 2012, while Petrominerales
had 41.2 million barrels, the companies said in separate
September presentations.  The transaction’s full value of $44 per barrel would fall
to $25 after adjustments to pipeline stakes and cost savings,
according to the JPMorgan analysts. The company’s guidance of $4
billion for 2014 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization “looks ambitious,” they wrote.  The deal’s total value is 2.98 times forecast Ebitda,
compared with the 4.83  median ratio  of similar transactions,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Willis in Bogota at 
 awillis21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  