-- Pfizer’s Premarin for Menopause Linked to Blood Clot Risk
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2013-09-30T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/pfizer-s-premarin-for-menopause-linked-to-blood-clot-risk.html
Pfizer’s Inc. (PFE) ’s Premarin for
menopause may be tied to a higher risk of blood clots than
another common estrogen treatment called estradiol, a study
found.  Women taking Premarin, also known as conjugated equine
estrogens, had double the risk of a blood clot in the veins than
women taking estradiol, a synthetic form of estrogen, according
to research today in  JAMA Internal Medicine . No difference
between the treatments was seen in the risk of stroke.  Today’s findings don’t mean women should stop taking
Premarin, an estrogen gathered from the urine of pregnant
horses, to ease their menopausal symptoms such as hot flashes,
night sweats, mood swings and vaginal dryness, said  Nicholas
Smith , the lead study author. More research is needed to
replicate the results so doctors can say for sure that different
types of estrogen drugs carry varied levels of heart risks, he
said.  “The assumption has held that all oral estrogens have
similar safety profiles. This may not be the case,” Smith, a
professor of epidemiology at the  University of Washington  School
of  Public Health  in  Seattle , said in an e-mail. “More
comparative safety studies of commonly used treatments are
needed.”  Researchers in the study included 384 post-menopausal women
ages 30 to 79 who were taking hormone treatments and were part
of the heart and vascular health study with Group Health
Cooperative, a health-care system in Washington state.  Study Findings  From January 2003 to December 2009, 68 women developed
blood clots, including 39 who used Premarin, 67 had a heart
attack, including 38 who used Premarin, and 48 had a stroke,
including 25 who used Premarin. Those women were matched with
201 patients who didn’t have any heart events and were current
 estrogen  users.  While the research showed the risk of having a heart attack
for Premarin users was higher than those taking estradiol, the
findings weren’t statistically significant.  Pfizer “strongly believes” in the use of conjugated
estrogens as a treatment option for women who have moderate to
severe menopausal symptoms, Jennifer Kokell, a company
spokeswoman, said in a statement. Premarin generated $1.07
billion in sales last year.  “Conjugated estrogens have been used for over 70 years as
an effective treatment option for women experiencing menopausal
symptoms,” Kokell said. “Pfizer remains committed to helping
meet the needs of women going through menopause.”  Women should use hormones at the lowest dose for the
shortest amount of time, according to  U.S. recommendations .  Health Risks  More than 6 million women took New York-based Pfizer’s
Premarin and Prempro, a combination of estrogen and progestin,
to treat their menopausal symptoms before they were linked in
2002 to health concerns such as  breast cancer .  The Women’s Health Initiative, a U.S.-sponsored study of
disease and disability in postmenopausal women, was halted in
2002 after finding that women who took Pfizer’s Prempro had a
higher breast-cancer risk. That led to a decline in sales of
hormone replacement therapy pills. The Women’s Health Initiative
Estrogen-Alone Trial was stopped in 2004, a year earlier than
planned, because of an increased risk of stroke.  The  Food and Drug Administration  says that women shouldn’t
use hormone therapy to prevent heart attacks and strokes or
memory loss and  Alzheimer’s disease . Studies also haven’t shown
the treatments prevent aging and wrinkles or increase sex drive,
the agency said.  Hormone treatments may help relieve menopausal symptoms and
reduce a woman’s chance of getting osteoporosis, according to
the FDA. Still the drugs may raise the chance a woman gets blood
clots, heart attacks, strokes, breast cancer and gall bladder
disease. Women who have a uterus and take estrogen may have a
higher risk of cancer of the uterine lining, the FDA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  