-- Philippine Stocks Drop Most in a Month, Capping Quarterly Loss
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-09-30T11:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/philippine-stocks-drop-most-in-a-month-capping-quarterly-loss.html
Philippine  stocks  fell the most in
a month as government officials said a potential U.S. government
shutdown may spur market volatility.  SM Investments Corp. sank 4.4 percent, with most of the
 loss  coming in the last minutes of trading. Shopping mall
operator  SM Prime Holdings Inc. (SM)  slid 7 percent.  San Miguel (SMC)  Corp.
pared a rally after $634.8 million of its shares were sold in a
block, according to data from the Philippine Stock Exchange.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index fell 3 percent to
6,191.80 at the close, the most since Aug. 28 and capping a 4.2
percent quarterly loss.  Overseas investors  sold a net $647.4
million of the nation’s equities today, more than double the
previous record outflow, exchange data show.  “The surge in volume was driven by the block transaction
in  San Miguel ,” said Alex Pomento, strategist at Manila unit of
Macquarie Group Ltd. “Strip out the San Miguel block
transaction and today’s volume isn’t unusual. It’s the quarter
end, so some fund managers are squaring their portfolio while
sentiment is also weak because of what’s happening in the U.S.”  U.S. Congress  is scheduled to meet today to end a stalemate
that raises the risk of the first government shutdown in 17
years and threatens talks to increase the debt limit.  Central bank Governor Amando Tetangco and Finance Secretary
Cesar Purisima said today concerns over the shutdown will boost
volatility.  Block Sale  A total of 368.14 million San Miguel shares changed hands
at 75 pesos each in a deal worth 27.6 billion pesos ($634.8
million), exchange data show. San Miguel President Ramon Ang
couldn’t be reached in his office for comment and didn’t respond
to  text messages  on his mobile phone.  San Miguel earlier rallied as much as 2.8 percent today
after saying it will raise $2 billion from the sale of its stake
in  Manila Electric Co. (MER)  to  JG Summit Holdings Inc. (JGS)   Manila Electric, also known as Meralco, surged 4.4 percent,
the most in five months. JG Summit fell 1.8 percent, with losses
accelerating into the close.  “It’s anyone’s guess if the sale of San Miguel shares was
related to the sale of San Miguel’s holdings in Manila
Electric,” Pomento said.  Philippine stocks attracted $1.78 billion of net inflow
from the start of 2013 through Sept. 27 as accelerating economic
growth and two debt rating upgrades to investment status lured
foreign investors. The inflow helped push  stock valuations  to
20.9 times 12-month estimated earnings on May 15, a record based
on data compiled by Bloomberg. Shares on the  Philippine Stock
Exchange Index (PCOMP)  are now valued at 16.7 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  