-- Planned Parenthood Fights New Iowa Abortion Drug Limits
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-09-30T21:54:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/planned-parenthood-fights-new-iowa-abortion-drug-limits.html
Planned Parenthood ’s  Iowa  affiliate
said it’s suing to throw out a state rule that would end
“telemedicine abortion,” the practice of letting doctors
remotely dispense pregnancy-terminating drugs.  Planned Parenthood of the Heartland Inc. said today that
the case was filed in state court in  Des Moines . The filing
couldn’t immediately be verified in electronic court records.  Under the existing practice, a doctor can electronically
release the drugs Mifeprex and misoprostol to women pregnant for
63 days or less, after a video-consultation and after the
patient has been checked for gestational duration,  blood
pressure  and other factors affecting eligibility to take the
drugs, according to a copy of the petition provided by Planned
Parenthood.  The new rule would require the doctor to be present and
perform a physical examination before the medicine is given, and
it mandates at least one follow-up appointment 12 to 18 days
later. Iowa’s Board of Medicine adopted the regulation on Aug.
30, according to the filing.  “If the rule goes into effect as scheduled on Nov. 6,
Planned Parenthood of the Heartland will be forced to suspend
telemedicine delivery for medication abortion at 15 health
centers in Iowa,” the group said today in a statement.  Planned Parenthood said telemedicine abortion is safe and
the new requirements aren’t medically necessary. The group is
seeking a court finding that the rule places an unconstitutional
burden on a woman’s right to an abortion.  “We just received the lawsuit and we’re reviewing it,”  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Planned Parenthood of the Heartland Inc. v.
Iowa Board of Medicine, Polk County, Iowa, District Court (Des
Moines).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  