-- Pound Advances Above $1.62 to Nine-Month High Amid Growth Signs
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-09-30T15:32:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/pound-rises-fourth-day-against-euro-after-house-prices-increase.html
The pound rose above $1.62 to the
highest level in almost nine months after reports showed  house
prices  climbed the most in six years and mortgage approvals
increased, adding to signs the economy is gaining momentum.  Sterling climbed to the strongest since January versus the
euro after  Bank of England  Governor  Mark Carney  said last week
that he saw no case for more stimulus that tends to debase a
currency. U.K. government bonds dropped amid speculation Italian
Prime Minister Enrico Letta can survive a challenge from former
premier  Silvio Berlusconi , damping demand for the safest fixed-income securities.  “U.K. data have been better than expected,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a senior currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . This “makes it more unlikely that the BOE will add
to their stimulus,” and that is helping the pound, he said.  The pound climbed 0.3 percent to $1.6190 at 4:26 p.m. in
 London  after rising to $1.6203, the highest level since Jan. 3.
Sterling gained 0.2 percent to 83.59 pence per euro after
appreciating to 83.40 pence, the strongest since Jan. 17.  The U.K. currency will advance to 83 pence per euro by
year-end, Commerzbank’s Karpowitz said.  Average  home prices  in England and  Wales  rose 0.5 percent
in September, the most since May 2007, after gaining 0.4 percent
in August, property researcher Hometrack said. Mortgage
approvals increased to 62,226, the most since February 2008,
from a revised 60,914 the previous month, the Bank of England
said in a monthly report.  Government Assistance  Prime Minister  David Cameron  brought forward the second
phase of his “Help to Buy” program yesterday. The plan, which
will provide government-guaranteed mortgages for buyers with a
deposit of as little as 5 percent of the value of homes costing
as much as 600,000 pounds, will commence three months earlier
than planned.  The government may “come in for renewed criticism for
stoking up an already strong housing market at a time when many
other countries are actively using macro-prudential policies to
cool house prices,”  Adam Cole , head of Group-of-10 currency
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada in London, wrote in a note to
clients. “This is short-term positive for the pound, as are the
broader upside surprises U.K. data continue to deliver.”  Net Longs  Futures traders last week  reversed their bets  that the
pound would weaken against the dollar, figures from the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission released Sept. 27 showed.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the pound compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 1,174 on Sept. 24,
compared with net shorts of 6,310 a week earlier. Futures are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date.  Carney told the Yorkshire Post last week that the central
bank would consider expanding its bond purchases, known as
quantitative easing, only if the economy faltered.  The pound has risen 6.6 percent in the past six months, the
best performer among 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro gained 5.6
percent, while the dollar weakened 0.6 percent.  Gilts reversed an earlier advance after Reuters reported
that as many as 20 senators from Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
party were prepared to leave the party if the ex-premier doesn’t
back down.  Letta said yesterday he would seek a confidence vote on
Oct. 2 to try to save his five-month-old administration after
Berlusconi, a partner in the ruling coalition, withdrew his
support and pulled his ministers from the cabinet.  Compromise Likely  “The situation in  Italy  was serious but the latest
headlines suggested some form of political compromise will
probably be reached,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income
strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh. “Gilts
fell alongside bunds on the back of those headlines.”  The yield on the  10-year gilt  rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 2.72 percent after declining to 2.67
percent, the lowest level since Aug. 27. The 2.25 percent bond
due in September 2023 fell 0.085, or 85 pence per 1,000-pound
face amount, to 95.935.  The Bank of England said today foreign investors reduced
their gilt holdings by 6.04 billion pounds in August, the most
since June 2012. That followed a net purchase of 1.27 billion
pounds in July.  Gilts lost 3.1 percent this year through Sept. 27,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. German bunds dropped
1.5 percent and Treasuries fell 2.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  