-- Power Failure on Aged Tracks Shows Northeast Rail Frailty
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e ,   P r i y a   A n a n d   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-09-30T20:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/power-failure-on-aged-tracks-shows-northeast-rail-frailty.html
The service interruption  Metro-North Railroad  near  New York  shows how dependent the busiest
U.S. passenger-rail corridor is on electric power and how easily
a breakdown in one component can paralyze U.S. infrastructure.  “The demand for rail service in the northeast  United
States  is increasing enormously,” said  Richard Ravitch , the
former New York lieutenant governor who spent four years as
chairman of New York’s  Metropolitan Transportation Authority ,
which runs Metro-North. “We do not have the capacity that we
need. We need a modern rail system that half the countries in
the world have that we don’t have.”  A  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  power failure Sept. 25 stopped
the  New Haven  line, Metro-North’s busiest, which serves about
130,000 passengers daily in  Connecticut  and suburban Westchester
County in New York. Con Edison and Metro-North have said they
will try to restore full service by Oct. 8. The railroad is
offering free park-and-ride spaces and shuttle buses today to
help commuters reach their jobs in  New York City .  The eight-mile outage north of  Mount Vernon , New York, also
hampers Amtrak, which operates on the line, because the U.S.
long-distance passenger railroad has to substitute slower  diesel
engines . High-speed Acela service resumed today in a limited
capacity.  Fix It  For commuters, trains running every half-hour accommodate
half the New Haven line’s typical ridership, and Connecticut
Governor Dannel Malloy and Metro-North have urged riders to work
from home, carpool or find alternate means of travel. The
governor said yesterday that the utility and railroad have taken
a lackadaisical attitude toward repairing the breakdown, first
saying a repair could take three weeks.  “I have been making it clear to Con Ed and the MTA that a
delay like the one they initially proposed was completely
unacceptable,” Malloy said in a statement yesterday. “I want
to re-emphasize that they need to alleviate this problem as
quickly as possible.”  Amtrak, based in  Washington , is linking northbound trains
with a diesel locomotives in Queens, New York, to get through
the powerless section and switching again in New Haven,
Connecticut, said Clifford Cole, a spokesman. That can cause 90-minute delays.  $3 Billion  The New Haven line may need as much as $3 billion in
repairs to improve reliability, said Amanda Kennedy, a director
at the  Regional Plan Association , an independent urban research
and advocacy group with offices in New York, Connecticut and  New
Jersey .  “Age is catching up to the railroad again,” Kennedy, who
directs RPA’s Connecticut office, said in a phone interview.
“Any time there is construction, that takes a part of the
system out of service it limits our ability to handle the
unexpected. There should be a recognition of the value of the
system and the need to make sure that outages don’t occur on a
regular basis.”  The multi-day closing of the New Haven line is the second
this year, following one due to a May 17 crash involving about
700 passengers, all of whom survived the collision between two
trains going opposite directions. When the crash occurred, the
adjacent Metro-North line was out of service for improvements.  The  National Transportation Safety Board  has a hearing in
Washington scheduled on the crash for Oct. 22 and 23.  D+ Grade  In the new incident, an electrical fault cut power on a
high-voltage transmission feeder cable while an alternate line
was out of service for improvements. Con Edison, in an e-mailed
statement today, said its preliminary investigation found the
fault was related to disconnecting it for Metro-North’s upgrade
work.  “We will be conducting a thorough review of the cause of
the feeder failure once restoration activities are completed,”
Con Edison said in the e-mail. “The review will include a
thorough examination of the failed cable once it is removed from
the pipe as part of the restoration process, and will focus on
understanding how this incident occurred to avoid future such
incidents.”  U.S. Senators  Richard Blumenthal  of Connecticut and  Charles Schumer  of New York, both Democrats, said in a statement
yesterday they want a U.S. audit and investigation.  “There is a backup power system for a reason, and we need
to know why that backup system failed, throwing a wrench into
the commute of tens of thousands,” Schumer said.  The American Society of Civil Engineers gave U.S. rail and
energy infrastructure D+ ratings in a  report  this year. From
2007 to 2011, the number of significant power outages in the
country rose from 76 to 307, according to the group based in
Reston, Virginia.  One Feeder  “The electric system in general in this country is older
and it is being used in a higher capacity,” said Ruth Johnson,
vice president of engineering at High Energy Inc. and a member
of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. “It’s
not a dissimilar problem to bridges or roads or water pipes.
It’s an issue for the country in most of the infrastructure and
facilities.”  Metro-North tested its system with one working power feeder
before taking the alternate cable out of service for
maintenance. The cable that’s offline is expected to be back in
service by Oct. 7, said Adam Lisberg, a spokesman.  “When  power lines  fail, they fail instantaneously,” Con
Edison spokesman Mike Clendenin said.  ‘Very Old’  The electric company has said broken pipes must be frozen,
de-energized, cleaned, repaired and gradually returned to power,
drawing out the restoration process.  Metro-North has said it’s been improving infrastructure and
that the utility is to blame.  “It’s a very old, electrified railroad that Metro North
has been steadily upgrading,” said David Gunn, a former  Amtrak 
chief executive officer who isn’t involved in the current
situation.  After spending little on capital improvements in the 1990s,
Amtrak plans to expand service in the Northeast by upgrading
infrastructure and building new routes. The railroad, which
receives assistance from the U.S. and state governments, hasn’t
gotten the $2.1 billion in federal support for capital projects
it requested this year.  Schumer said in yesterday’s statement that the situation is
untenable.  “We can’t have our entire transportation system ground to
a halt because we have a failure in both a primary and backup
power systems,” he said. “There must be mandatory contingency
plans approved by the government in place for these events.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Priya Anand in New York at 
 panand20@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  