-- Pricey U.K. School Uniforms Have Parents Seeking Choices
-- B y   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2013-09-30T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/pricey-u-k-school-uniforms-have-parents-seeking-choices.html
Every year or two, Hadas Mesginn
visits a small shop in west London to buy the uniform her
daughter needs for classes at  Fulham Cross Girls’ School . This
year’s bill, she says, came to 170 pounds ($270).  The state school insists that its 600 pupils wear a pink
and black uniform, sold only at  Sogans  in Hammersmith. That
rankles parents like Mesginn, who is unemployed. She wants
alternatives so she can shop at big chains with cheaper prices,
such as  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda unit,  Marks & Spencer Plc (MKS)  or
the  John Lewis Partnership Plc .  “There is only one shop” that sells the required
clothing, Mesginn said after a recent trip to the store. “The
school told me we have to shop here. It’s quite expensive.”  U.K. schools -- state and private -- typically require
pupils to wear uniforms. Three in four U.K. state schools have
exclusive agreements with one supplier for some compulsory
items, according to the  Office of Fair Trading , an antitrust
regulator.  “It is too easy for schools to have these single-supplier
arrangements where parents can end up paying more than they
need,” U.K. Education Minister  David Laws  said at the Liberal
Democrat conference on Sept. 15. “Parents need to be able to
shop around to find the best deal.”  The  Department for Education  issued new guidance on Sept.
16 encouraging schools to avoid using a single uniform supplier
or making “cashback” agreements, in which suppliers share the
proceeds of uniform sales.  Art Smocks  The OFT last year found  74 percent of state schools 
restricted where some parts of their uniforms can be bought. The
regulator estimated parents overpay for the gear by 52 million
pounds each year. The uniform market was 959 million pounds in
2010 and is expected to grow 19 percent by 2015, according to
researcher Mintel Group Ltd.  Parents shopping at Sogans said they spend 150 pounds to
250 pounds to outfit each child at state schools in required
blazers, trousers, skirts, dresses, shirts, coats, cardigans,
gym outfits and art smocks embroidered with school crests or
logos. At private schools, the total can top 500 pounds.  The red wool blazer worn by children at  Downsend School  in
Leatherhead, a London suburb, is available only at  Lester
Bowden , a 115-year-old “traditional sporting outfitter” in
nearby Epsom, for 88 to 93 pounds.  “We provide the best price that we can for the goods we
sell that are chosen by the school,” said Lester Bowden manager
Brian Chilman.  Manufacturers of schoolwear and retailers don’t oppose
competition, says Matthew Easter, chairman of the  Schoolwear
Association , a trade group that represents uniform manufacturers
and retailers.  Stampeding Parents  “We want to provide the best deals,” said Easter, who is
also managing director of manufacturer  Trutex Ltd.  “The way to
achieve it is not to have multiple distribution channels. The
best thing is to hold a tender process.”  The association met with education department officials two
days after Minister Laws’ remarks to express members’ views and
has also met with OFT officials, Easter said in a phone
interview.  The OFT concluded that competition in uniforms had improved
since it last examined the industry in 2006, “but by no means
enough,” said competition lawyer Lambros Kilaniotis of  Reynolds
Porter Chamberlain . He expects the agency will decide within
three years whether further action is needed.  To keep costs down, parents’ associations at some schools
organize sales of used uniforms. At Downsend School, there’s “a
bit of a stampede” during the sales, said Jill Rose, a mother
of four who has two children at the school.  Sewing Logos  Parents are devising new ways to reduce uniform costs.
Jacinta Evans, a mother of four with a son at  New College School 
in Oxford, says she has seen mothers buy the school crest and
sew it on a cheaper gray blazer from Marks & Spencer to avoid
spending 89 pounds at the shop that sells the required one.  “Everything has to have the logo on it,” said Evans, who
says she spent 650 pounds on uniforms for another son attending
the private  St. Edward’s School . “What’s to stop me from going
and buying the cheap stuff and paying someone to sew on a cheap
logo?”  Probably very little, said Stephanie Pattenden,
headmistress of the private  Francis Holland School  in Chelsea
for 15 years until she retired in 2012.  Girls at Francis Holland could have gotten away with
cheaper uniforms from unauthorized suppliers, said Pattenden.
“I wouldn’t,” she said, “be able to tell the difference.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  