-- Puerto Rico Cofina Cut to Negative Outlook by S&P on Economy
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-09-30T19:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/puerto-rico-s-cofina-cut-to-negative-outlook-by-s-p-on-economy.html
Standard & Poor’s lowered its
outlook on Puerto Rico’s sales-tax backed bonds to negative from
stable, citing the commonwealth’s shrinking economy and
population.  The move follows Puerto Rico’s announcement last week of a
plan to increase the percent of revenue that it allocates to its
sales-tax credit to 3.5 percent from 2.75 percent to refinance
debt. The proposal would give the territory of 3.7 million
people an additional $2 billion of borrowing capacity through
the Sales Tax Financing Corp.  The change reflects “our view of the current economic
climate and is not related to the potential for additional
leverage,” David Hitchcock, an S&P analyst, said in the report.  The island’s debt is tax-exempt across the U.S., leading
investors to hold it in both national and state-specific mutual
funds. The island’s general obligations are on the brink of
speculative grade from the major rating companies.  If the economy continues on its current path, S&P said
there’s at least a 33 percent chance it will cut its rating on
the sales-tax bonds, known as Cofinas, within two years. The
senior debt carries an AA- grade, fourth-highest, and the
subordinate securities are one level lower at A+.  Treasury Confident  “We are confident that we can make continued, significant
progress on our fiscal and economic development plans within
S&P’s two-year horizon,” Puerto Rico Treasury Secretary Melba Acosta said in an e-mailed statement. “We are maintaining an
ongoing dialog with the investment community, including the
ratings agencies, to ensure a clear understanding of our plan,
our progress and our improving prospects.”  An index measuring the island’s economy fell by 5.4 percent
in August from a year earlier, the steepest contraction since
2010, according to Puerto Rico’s Government Development Bank,
which handles the commonwealth’s capital-market transactions.
The territory’s population fell 2.2 percent from 2000 to 2010,
Census Bureau data show.  After the S&P report’s release, Cofina bonds maturing in
August 2042 traded as low as 80.03 cents, the weakest since
Sept. 12, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Puerto Rico securities have lost  16.4 percent  this year,
according to S&P data. That’s more than four times as much as
any other state, and compares with a 2.9 percent drop for the
entire $3.7 trillion municipal market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  