-- Rand Extends Longest Losing Run in 12 Years: South Africa Credit
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-09-30T11:41:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/rand-extends-longest-losing-run-in-12-years-south-africa-credit.html
The South African rand extended its
longest quarterly losing streak in 12 years as a boost provided
by the  Federal Reserve ’s delay in paring its stimulus program
faded amid concern labor strikes are curbing economic growth.  The rand lost 2 percent against the dollar since June 30,
the worst performer among the 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg after the  Mexican peso , stretching the run of declines
to six quarters. The peso retreated 2.1 percent, while  New
Zealand ’s dollar rallied 7 percent over the period.  Strikes at mines, building sites and carmakers this year
overshadowed the fillip from the Fed’s surprise decision this
month to keep its $85 billion-a-month purchases of assets
intact, with  Africa ’s biggest economy forecast to grow this year
at the slowest pace since a 2009 recession. The weakening rand
is the biggest threat to inflation, leaving the central bank
little room to cut  interest rates  to stimulate growth. That
could weigh on the nation’s bonds, set for their first quarterly
gain in three.  “If the rand is weaker, inflation expectations have got to
be higher,” Mamokete Lijane, a fixed-income analyst at  Absa
Capital , said by phone from Johannesburg on Sept. 27. “In that
environment, bonds will sell off.”  Lost Production  Foreigners sold a net 1.1 billion rand ($110 million) of
bonds in the four days through Sept. 26 after 7.6 billion rand
of purchases the week of the Fed decision, according to data
from the Johannesburg stock exchange. The rand weakened 2.4
percent against the dollar last week.  Workers aligned to the Association of Mineworkers &
Construction Union started a strike at  Anglo American Platinum
Ltd. (AMS) , the biggest miner of the metal, on Sept. 27 to challenge a
plan to fire 3,300 workers. South African gold producers cut
short a work stoppage this month after agreeing to an 8.5
percent pay increase. Vehicle manufacturers including  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and  General Motors Co. (GM) , lost
production revenue of about 20 billion rand after 30,000
employees downed tools for 15 days seeking higher pay, according
to the National Association of Automobile Manufacturers of  South
Africa .  Strikes shaved 0.5 percentage point off  economic growth  in
2012 and an estimated 0.3 percentage point this year, President
 Jacob Zuma  said in June. The economy will probably expand 2
percent this year, according to the central bank.  ‘Fragile Countries’  “The market still believes there will be tapering,” Peter Attard Montalto, a London-based emerging-markets economist at
Nomura International Plc, said by phone on Sept. 26. “The risk
into those more worrisome, fragile countries, like South Africa,
still has to be there. There are still the same domestic risks
that are coming through. There is still the same current-account
dual deficit, fiscal issue; still a low growth picture.”  Lost mining production will probably keep pressure on South
Africa’s  current account , the broadest measure of trade, after
the shortfall widened to 6.5 percent of gross domestic product
in the second quarter.  The rand gained 0.1 percent to 10.0771 per dollar as of
1:35 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on the government rand bonds
due December 2026 dropped six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point.  Import Costs  The rand’s decline has boosted import costs, lifting
gasoline prices 6.8 percent in July and 2.4 percent last month.
The country relies on imports for 70 percent of its oil needs.
Inflation, which accelerated to 6.4 percent in August and the
highest level in four years, typically increases as much as 2
percentage points for every 10 percent decline in the currency,
according to the central bank.  “It’s the same old story,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, the
Johannesburg-based chief dealer at Bidvest Bank, said by phone
on Sept. 27. “We are a nation of importers. The demand for
foreign currency is just too much and there isn’t enough
supply.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  