-- Rapper Ke$ha Fights to Stop Maine Bear Hunters Using Bait
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-09-30T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/rapper-ke-ha-fights-to-stop-maine-bear-hunters-using-bait.html
Mitch Cummings likes to take a
rifle into the  Maine  woods near his Bethel home, climb onto a
platform secured to a tree and spend hours watching a plastic
barrel stuffed with stale pastries.  He’s hunting black bears, using high-calorie snacks
purchased in bulk and a spray that smells like jelly doughnuts
to lure the animals into a narrow clearing. When he sees one he
likes, he’ll shoot to kill.  “I just stay as still as possible,” said Cummings, 37,
after showing off the fresh paw prints and bear droppings that
surround a blue barrel licked clean by one that got away.
“Bears are very smart.”  Eighty percent of the almost 3,000 bears killed each year
during the state’s four-week hunting season in late summer are
lured with bait, according to the Inland Fisheries and Wildlife
Department.  Animal-rights groups want to stop it. The practice gives
hunters an unfair advantage and encourages bears to acquire a
taste for human food, according to the  Humane Society  of the
U.S. The group is reviving a fight that had some success in
western states two decades ago. It’s backing a ballot measure
next year that would end baiting, trapping and using hounds to
kill bears.  “Maine is an outlier on the bear-hunting methods, and we
need a course correction,” said  Wayne Pacelle , chief executive
officer of the Washington-based Humane Society of the U.S., in a
telephone interview. “The odds are very badly stacked against
the bears.”  Snare Traps  Of the 32 states with bear hunting, 12 allow baiting,
according to Mainers for Fair Bear Hunting, a Portland-based
coalition. Eighteen permit hounding, where dogs with GPS
monitors on their collars chase bears into trees. Maine is the
only state in the continental U.S. that allows trapping, a
practice where a bear’s paw is ensnared in a wire loop,
according to the group.  The referendum effort puts the state at the forefront of a
hunters-versus-bear debate that dates to 1920s-era battles over
steel traps. It pits the state’s animal activists against
wildlife officials who say Maine’s ursine population must be
kept in check.  “Please make no mistake: This is not about hunting
methods, but a referendum on how we manage and control wildlife
in this state,” Inland Fisheries and Wildlife Commissioner
Chandler E. Woodcock said at a Sept. 23 news conference in
Augusta.  Jersey Hunt  His department estimates there are 30,000 bears in Maine,
or one for every 44 residents. Maine has the second-largest bear
population among 25 states in the eastern U.S., according the
2011  Bear Management Survey , a multistate project. Only
 Wisconsin , with as many as 40,000 black bears, has more, the
data show.  A similar debate took place three years ago in  New Jersey ,
which added a six-day hunting season with baiting allowed to
cull the bear population after increasing numbers of them came
into contact with humans.  Ten years ago, the Humane Society pushed a similar
referendum in Maine. It was defeated 53 percent to 47 percent on
the 2004 ballot, according to the secretary of state’s office.
Last week, Mainers for Fair Bear Hunting started collecting
signatures and have already reeled in a celebrity endorsement
from pop singer and rapper Ke$ha, who promoted the effort during
a glitter-strewn concert in Bangor last month.  Fair Fight  “We have many years of experience in other states that
have eliminated those methods and know what that has meant for
their bear populations and nuisance complaints,” said Anita
Coupe, a member of the coalition’s steering committee.  After Washington, Oregon and  Colorado  banned baiting and
hounding in the 1990s, bear hunting increased, according to data
from the states’ fish and wildlife agencies.  “The fair-chase hunters come back,” Coupe said.  Maine’s hunters counter that the Pine Tree State’s dense
forests make tracking the animals on foot difficult.  “It is dark and black and very thick,” said David Trahan,
executive director of the Augusta-based Sportman’s Alliance of
Maine. “It is impossible to stalk a bear.”  Animal-rights groups have demographics on their side, said
David Walls, a professor emeritus of sociology at Sonoma State
University in Rohnert Park, California, who has written about
the movement in the U.S.  “There are fewer people hunting these days,” he said.
“There are fewer people living in rural areas.”  Vacation Hunters  In Maine, more than half of the 10,778 bear-hunting permits
issued last year went to non-residents, according to Maine
figures. Many of those were vacationers who pay as much as
$2,500 per person for the chance to bring home a furry pelt,
said Don Kleiner, executive director of the Maine Professional
Guides Association.  “There is an economic story here,” he said, counting off
the cooks, taxidermists, outfitters and camp cleaners paid
during organized hunts. Those jobs -- mostly in the poorer rural
parts of the state -- would evaporate should the referendum
pass, he said.  Bethel is one town that benefits. At the Bait, Tackle &
More shop, Sarah Lane and Jeremy Fredette sell guns, ammunition
and bear T-shirts. They tag animals that are shot nearby and
collect one tooth from each to be sent in to state officials for
age tracking.  “This is part of our culture here, hunting and fishing,”
said Lane. “Those people who don’t like bear hunting probably
haven’t run into one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  