-- Reverse-Mortgage Rule on Surviving Spouse Tossed by Judge
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-10-01T00:48:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/reverse-mortgage-rule-on-surviving-spouse-tossed-by-judge.html
A rule of the U.S.  Department of
Housing and Urban Development  governing repayments of reverse
mortgages by surviving spouses conflicts with federal law, a
judge in Washington ruled.  HUD erred “when it insured the reverse mortgages of
plaintiffs’ spouses pursuant to regulation, which permitted
their loan obligations to come due upon their death regardless
of whether their spouses were still alive,” U.S. District Judge
Ellen Huvelle said in an opinion released today.  The widowers who sued HUD cited a federal law that defers
an obligation to pay off such loans until the homeowner’s death
and defines “homeowner” to include the surviving spouse.  HUD rules make it more likely that a surviving spouse will
end up in foreclosure, according to the suit, which was filed in
2011.  Brian Sullivan, a spokesman for HUD, didn’t immediately
respond to telephone and e-mail requests for comment on
Huvelle’s ruling.  Home’s Equity  Reverse-mortgage loans pay out a home’s equity to the
homeowner, sometimes in installments, and are usually repaid
when the borrower dies or moves out of the house. Borrowers are
considered behind on payments if they don’t stay current on
their property taxes and insurance.  The loans are available only to borrowers who are at least
62 and who have significant equity in their homes.  The language HUD used when implementing the law states that
the loan comes due “if a mortgagor dies and the property is not
the principal residence of at least one surviving mortgagor.”  In defending its wording of the regulation, HUD said that
it was concerned that a homeowner, after taking out a reverse
mortgage, might marry a young spouse, which would increase a
lender’s risk, according to a filing in the suit.  The complaint initially was dismissed by Huvelle, who found
that since the widowers weren’t borrowers on the loans, winning
the lawsuit wouldn’t save their homes because it was the
lender’s decision whether to foreclose.  HUD Remedies  In reinstating the case earlier this year, an appeals court
said HUD could come up with remedies to keep widowers in their
homes.  “HUD could accept assignment of the mortgage, pay off the
balance of the loans to the lenders, and then decline to
foreclose,” Circuit Judge Laurence Silberman wrote in the
appeals court ruling.  Craig Briskin, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said he didn’t
know how many homeowners are affected by the ruling, “but the
number of people who have contacted us is in the high hundreds,
perhaps more than a thousand.”  “The court has told HUD, protect these people,” Briskin
said. “They do have discretion to figure out how are we going
to accomplish this.”  The case is Bennett v. Donovan, 11-cv-00498, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net  