-- Trilogy Considers Partners on $1.94 Billion of Acreage
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-09-30T17:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/trilogy-considers-partners-on-1-94-billion-of-acreage.html
Trilogy Energy Corp. (TET) , the company
backed by billionaire Clayton Riddell, is considering
partnerships on land worth as much as C$2 billion ($1.94
billion) after drilling results beat estimates.  Trilogy’s land in  Alberta ’s Duvernay formation is worth as
much as 20 times more than in 2011 as different drilling methods
allow companies to almost double the amount of oil and natural
gas that can be produced,  John Williams , president and chief
operating officer of the Calgary-based company, said in a phone
interview on Sept. 27.  “With what we’re seeing today, we’re thinking the play is
becoming more valuable,” Williams said. “Joint ventures could
potentially accelerate that value capture.”  Trilogy reported some of the best results to date on Sept.
27 in the Duvernay formation on four wells with an unidentified
partner, according to Todd Kepler at Cormark Securities Inc. in
Calgary. Exxon Mobil Corp. the world’s largest energy company by
market value, PetroChina Co. and Chevron Corp. bought Duvernay
stakes in the last year.  The recent Duvernay wells in which Trilogy owns a share
tested high in condensate, a light hydrocarbon that’s selling
for more than $100 a barrel, Kepler said in a Sept. 27 phone
interview. The company is a potential takeover target since it’s
the only producer other than  Athabasca Oil Corp. (ATH)  with enough
Duvernay land to be attractive, he said.  Beating Eagle Ford  Athabasca said in July it’s seeking a partner on its
Duvernay lands. Talisman Energy Inc. said in March it’s trying
to sell or find a partner for a portion of its Duvernay land.  Trilogy doesn’t need any partners in the Duvernay, Geoff Ready, an analyst at Dundee Securities Corp. in Calgary, said in
a Sept. 27 phone interview. “They have the ability to fund
future development on their own at their own pace,” Ready said.  Four wells drilled by a partner of Trilogy in the Duvernay
tested an average of 400 barrels of condensate per million cubic
feet of gas, Trilogy said in a statement after the close of
North American markets on Sept. 26. The company’s partner
doesn’t want its name disclosed, Williams said.  “That is blowing out of the water anything we’re seeing in
the Eagle Ford right now,” Kepler said, referring to the Texas
shale development. He is among 10 analysts who recommend
investors buy Trilogy. The stock also has five hold and one sell
 recommendations .  Trilogy’s well results add to preliminary information
investors have been seeking about how much oil and natural gas
liquids can be economically produced in the Duvernay, where
producers rushed to secure land in 2010 and 2011, Kepler said.  Entry Point  The Duvernay is a shale formation in central Alberta that
holds an estimated 443 trillion cubic feet of gas and 61.7
billion barrels of oil, according to a report last year by the
Alberta Energy Regulator predecessor, the Energy Resources
Conservation Board.  Trilogy isn’t trying to sell itself and hasn’t received any
offers, though it would entertain bids at the right price,
Williams said. “For anybody that wants an entry point, I’m sure
they’re licking their chops,” he said. The company has a market
value of C$3.43 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Riddell, Trilogy’s chairman, along with his family and
another energy company he chairs,  Paramount Resources Ltd. (POU) ,
together  own  52 percent of Trilogy, Williams said.  Exxon Mobil and its Canadian unit Imperial Oil Ltd. agreed
to pay C$2.86 billion last year for Celtic Exploration Ltd. of
Calgary to access leases in the Duvernay and Montney formations.
Chevron agreed to buy Alta Energy Luxembourg S.a.r.l. in August
for its 67,900 acres in the Duvernay and didn’t disclose a
price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  