-- RN Holding Set for February High on Rosneft Buyout: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-09-30T13:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/rn-holding-set-for-february-high-on-rosneft-buyout-moscow-mover.html
OAO RN Holding headed for the
highest close in seven months as owner OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s
biggest oil producer, approved buying out minority shareholders.  Shares of RN Holding, formerly TNK-BP, gained as much as
6.8 percent, and traded up 5.4 percent at 63.46 rubles by 4:31
p.m. in Moscow, the highest since Feb. 20 on a closing basis.
The volume of shares was equivalent to 3.2 times the three-month
average.  The oil producer’s board approved a buyout of RN Holding’s
minority investors at 67 rubles an ordinary share and 55 rubles
a preferred share, Rosneft said today on its website. RN Holding
surged 12 percent on Sept. 27 after Rosneft’s Chief Executive
Officer  Igor Sechin  said at an investor conference in Sochi,
Russia the company will comply “voluntarily” with a government
order to buy back the stock.  “This situation was resolved quite theatrically,” Aleksei Belkin, who helps manage about $4.4 billion in assets as chief
investment officer at Kapital Asset Management LLC in Moscow,
said by phone. “Speculators are buying the stock now. I don’t
like such things. Life’s too short for games.”  Rosneft became the world’s biggest publicly traded oil
producer by volume in March after it bought TNK-BP, a venture
between  BP Plc (BP/)  and a group of billionaires represented by the
AAR Consortium. Rosneft’s decision not to buy out minority
stakes in TNK-BP, followed by moves to borrow from the company
and end the dividend policy, sent  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP) ’s shares
tumbling 26 percent on March 26, the most on record.  Speculators Benefit  The price will be set at an 18-month weighted average,
which represents a premium of 20 percent to 30 percent to the
current market price, Sechin said during a panel led by Prime
Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  on Sept. 27. Shares in RN Holding
gained 12 percent this month through Sept. 26 and have plunged
25 percent in the past 12 months.  After using some of the proceeds from the sale of its half
to buy more shares, BP ended up with $12.5 billion in cash and
19.75 percent of Rosneft. Rosneft also paid $27.7 billion in
cash to AAR. Sberbank CIB analysts estimate Rosneft paid about
$3.70 a share, or about 120 rubles a share, to BP and AAR for
TNK-BP.  “Minority shareholders who accept the offer will receive
just half of the price for their shares that the oligarchs and
the big foreign major got for theirs,” Sberbank CIB analysts
led by  Oleg Maximov , said in an e-mailed note today. “The only
shareholders who will benefit from this are speculators who
bought the shares on the cheap during the long period of
uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  