-- Roche’s Perjeta Wins Approval for Early Breast Cancer
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-09-30T16:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/roche-s-perjeta-wins-approval-for-early-breast-cancer.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Perjeta won
expanded U.S. approval as the first pre-surgical therapy in
 breast cancer , increasing the odds the disease may be stopped in
those diagnosed with early stage HER2-positive tumors.  Perjeta, which is to be used in combination with Basel,
Switzerland-based Roche’s older breast cancer medicine Herceptin
and chemotherapy, was approved under an accelerated process
based on early clinical trials that showed the therapy reduced
the size of tumors, the  Food and Drug Administration  said today
in a  statement . Roche must complete a trial confirming benefit
in more than 4,800 enrollees who have had prior breast cancer
surgery and are at high risk of their cancer returning, the FDA
said.  “We are seeing a significant shift in the treatment
paradigm for early stage breast cancer,”  Richard Pazdur ,
director of the Office of Hematology and Oncology Products in
the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in the
statement. “By making effective therapies available to high-risk patients in the earliest disease setting, we may delay or
prevent cancer recurrences.”  Use of Perjeta prior to therapy may enable women to choose
less invasive surgery than a mastectomy, Roche said when a panel
of FDA advisers voted September 12 the benefits of the drug
outweigh the risks. Perjeta was first approved in June 2012 for
advanced HER2-positive breast cancer that has spread.  Quicker Approval  The FDA released a draft proposal in May 2012 guiding
companies to use tumor eradication as a study goal to gain
accelerated marketing clearance for pre-surgical breast cancer
treatments in an attempt to speed approval of such drugs.  “A new approval pathway has made Perjeta available to
people with HER2-positive early breast cancer several years
earlier than previously possible,”  Hal Barron , Roche’s chief
medical officer, said in a statement. “Together with the FDA,
we’ve charted new territory.”  Perjeta may generate $2.7 billion in sales for Roche in
2017, according to the average of six analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The most common side effects of the drug
are hair loss, diarrhea, nausea and a decrease in infection-fighting white blood cells.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  