-- Roma Routs Bologna for Best Serie A Start Since 2005; Barca Wins
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2013-09-30T00:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/roma-routs-bologna-for-best-serie-a-start-since-2005-barca-wins.html
Roma routed Bologna 5-0 to extend
its perfect start in Italian soccer’s Serie A on a weekend when
Barcelona clinched its seventh straight league win in Spain and
Real Madrid lost 1-0 at home to city rival  Atletico Madrid .  Gervinho scored twice and Alessandro Florenzi, Medhi
Benatia and Adem Ljajic added goals in the Italian capital last
night to lift Roma two points clear of Napoli and Juventus atop
the standings. Roma is the first team since Juventus in 2005-06
to win its first six Serie A games.  “The objective remains getting back into Europe,” Roma
coach Rudi Garcia said in comments on his team’s website. “Then
we can aim to try and be in the running on the final stretch
against favorites like Napoli and Juventus.”  Defending champion Juventus won 1-0 at neighboring Torino
earlier yesterday on Paul Pogba’s goal, while  Inter Milan  drew
1-1 at Cagliari. Two days ago, Napoli won 2-0 at Genoa.  Gareth Bale’s home debut as a halftime substitute two days
ago couldn’t prevent Real Madrid’s first La Liga loss this
season. Diego Costa’s 11th-minute goal secured Atletico’s first
derby win in the league since 1999.  Lionel Messi  opened the scoring in Barcelona’s 2-0 win at
Almeria before picking up a thigh injury that may keep him out
for three weeks, the club said. Adriano got the second goal.  Barcelona and Atletico have the maximum 21 points from
seven games, with Real Madrid on 16. Villarreal stayed in fourth
place after falling to its first league defeat of the season
last night at Real Betis.  Goal Difference  Borussia Dortmund  leads Germany’s Bundesliga on goal
difference after routing Freiburg 5-0 two days ago. Defending
champion  Bayern Munich  beat Wolfsburg 1-0 and  Bayer Leverkusen 
defeated Hanover 2-0.  Dortmund and Bayern both have 19 points, with Leverkusen
third on 18.  In France’s Ligue 1, Monaco drew 1-1 at Reims last night
and leads the standings on goal difference from defending
champion Paris Saint-Germain, which beat Toulouse 2-0 two days
ago on goals by Marquinhos and Edinson Cavani.  In the Netherlands,  FC Twente  moved atop the standings on
goal difference with a 5-0 win against Groningen.  PSV Eindhoven 
lost 2-1 at AZ Alkmaar and Heerenveen defeated Cambuur 2-1,
while defending champion Ajax routed Go Ahead Eagles 6-0.
Twente, PSV and Heerenveen each have 15 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  