-- Romania Cuts Main Rate for Third Meeting to Record-Low 4.25%
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-09-30T11:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/romania-cuts-main-rate-for-third-meeting-to-record-low-4-25-.html
Romania  cut its benchmark interest
rate by a quarter point to a record low in a third month of
easing with inflation set to slow to within policy makers’ goal.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  trimmed the rate to 4.25
percent from 4.5 percent, according to an e-mailed statement
today. Fourteen of 18 economists in a Bloomberg  survey  predicted
the cut, while four saw a half-point reduction. The bank kept
its minimum reserve requirements at 20 percent for foreign-exchange deposits and at 15 percent for leu deposits. Governor
Mugur Isarescu will hold a briefing at 3 p.m in Bucharest.  Policy makers, who kept borrowing costs unchanged for more
than a year after a surge in inflation, resumed rate reductions
in July, with consumer-price growth poised to slow within their
2013 target of 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent this month. The
benchmark rate will be cut further in the coming months,
according to Abbas Ameli-Renani, a strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London .  “I expect another 25 basis-point cut at the November
meeting before the central bank brings an end to the easing
cycle,” Ameli-Renani said by e-mail after the decision. “With
inflation expected to fall within the central bank’s target and
stay there until at least end-2014, the central bank will feel
comfortable implementing at least another 25 basis-point cut.”  Weaker Leu  The leu has weakened 0.2 percent this year against the
euro, the second-best performance among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded little changed at
4.4595 per euro by 1:54 p.m. in Bucharest.  Eastern European policy makers are diverging as their
economies show varying degrees of recovery.  Hungary ’s central
bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a record-low 3.6 percent
Sept. 24, while Poland kept its main rate at a record low of 2.5
percent Sept. 4. The Czech Republic, where borrowing costs are
effectively zero, refrained from announcing further policy
easing through koruna sales at a meeting last week as its
economy recovers from a record-long recession.  As the end of the euro region’s two-year slump buoys export
demand, Romania’s economy will expand 1.9 percent this year, the
government predicts. The central bank cut borrowing costs by a
total of 75 basis points in July and August after halting rate
reductions last March as a drought stoked inflation.  Consumer-price growth, which slowed to 3.7 percent from a
year earlier in August, will probably decelerate to 3 percent
this month after the government trimmed the value-added tax for
bread to 9 percent from 24 percent, according to the bank’s
 projections . The inflation rate will drop to 3.1 percent by
year-end, remaining at that level in 2014, it  predicts .  “We see the central bank delivering a final cut in the key
rate in early November to 4 percent and then pausing,” Banca
Comerciala Romana SA economist Dumitru Dulgheru said in a note
after the decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  