-- Romania Sees More Monetary Easing After Main Rate Cut to New Low
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2013-09-30T14:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/romania-sees-more-monetary-easing-after-main-rate-cut-to-new-low.html
Romania ’s central bank cut its
benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter point to a record low and
said further easing is likely with inflation set to slow to
within policy makers’ goal.  The  Banca Nationala a Romaniei  trimmed the rate to 4.25
percent from 4.5 percent, a third reduction in as many meetings,
according to an e-mailed statement today. Fourteen of 18
economists in a Bloomberg  survey  predicted the cut, while four
saw a half-point reduction. Minimum reserve requirements were
left at at 20 percent for foreign-exchange deposits and 15
percent for leu deposits.  Policy makers, who kept borrowing costs unchanged for more
than a year after a surge in inflation, resumed rate reductions
in July, with consumer-price growth poised to slow within their
2013 target of 1.5 percent to 3.5 percent this month. The
benchmark rate will be cut further in the coming months,
according to Abbas Ameli-Renani, a strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London .  “The resumption in disinflation has enabled a new cycle of
monetary-policy easing in the context of the central bank
effectively anchoring inflation expectations and closely
monitoring domestic and external developments,” Governor Mugur Isarescu told reporters in Bucharest.  The leu has weakened 0.2 percent this year against the
euro, the second-best performance among 24 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It traded little changed at
4.4628 per euro by 4:24 p.m. in Bucharest.  ‘Feel Comfortable’  “I expect another 25 basis-point cut at the November
meeting before the central bank brings an end to the easing
cycle,” Ameli-Renani said by e-mail after the decision. “With
inflation expected to fall within the central bank’s target and
stay there until at least end-2014, the central bank will feel
comfortable implementing at least another 25 basis-point cut.”  Consumer-price growth, which slowed to 3.7 percent from a
year earlier in August, will probably decelerate to 3 percent
this month after the government trimmed the value-added tax for
bread to 9 percent from 24 percent, according to the bank’s
 projections . The inflation rate will drop to 3.1 percent by
year-end, remaining at that level in 2014, it  predicts .  The latest price data “reconfirm faster disinflation until
the first part of 2014,” Isarescu said.  While lenders have been cutting deposit rates quicker than
loan rates, preventing a 50 basis-point reduction in the
benchmark today, policy makers will continue to trim borrowing
costs, according to the governor.  Transmission Delays  “It won’t deter us,” Isarescu told reporters in
Bucharest. Commercial banks have “significant room” to lower
borrowing rates and help speed an economic recovery, he said.  As the end of the euro region’s two-year slump buoys export
demand, Romania’s economy will expand 1.9 percent this year, the
government predicts. The central bank cut borrowing costs by a
total of 75 basis points in July and August after halting rate
reductions last March as a drought stoked inflation.  Eastern European policy makers are diverging as their
economies show varying degrees of recovery.  Hungary ’s central
bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a record-low 3.6 percent
Sept. 24, while Poland kept its main rate at a record low of 2.5
percent Sept. 4. The  Czech Republic , where borrowing costs are
effectively zero, refrained from announcing further policy
easing through koruna sales at a meeting last week as its
economy recovers from a record-long recession.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  