-- Rouhani Made Mistake by Talking to Obama, Iran Guards Chief Says
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r
-- 2013-09-30T16:57:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/rouhani-made-mistake-by-talking-to-obama-iran-guards-chief-says.html
Iranian President Hassan Rouhani
made a “tactical mistake” by talking to U.S. counterpart
 Barack Obama  last week, the commander of the Revolutionary
Guards said, in the first public criticism by a top official.  Rouhani and Obama spoke on the phone for 15 minutes on
Sept. 27,  the first time the leaders of the two countries had
spoken in 34 years. The Iranian president was on his way to the
airport in New York after a five-day trip to attend the United
Nations General Assembly, where he said that Iran is ready for
an accord with world powers over its nuclear program.  The government “could make tactical errors, like the phone
call with the Obama, but these can be corrected and repaired,”
the Tasnim news agency cited Major General Mohammad Ali Jafari,
head of the  Iran ’s Revolutionary Guards, as saying. If there are
“errors made by the officials, definitely the revolutionary
forces and their sympathizers will issue the necessary
warnings.”  After Rouhani returned from New York, dozens of people
tried to block his way, chanting anti-U.S. slogans. They were
outnumbered by supporters of the president, according to images
on state TV and newspaper reports. Ali Akbar Velayati, an
adviser to Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was at the
airport to greet the president.  Jafari said it would have been better for Rouhani to wait
for Obama to show his sincerity before making contact. The U.S.
has to take practical steps to show it has no hostile intent
toward Iran, he said.  “The White House should lift sanctions against the Iranian
nation, release Iran’s blocked and frozen assets, drop the
hostility and plots against the Iranian nation and admit its
right to peaceful nuclear technology,” Jafari said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  