-- Russia to Charge Greenpeace Activists Over Arctic Protest Act
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-09-30T11:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/russia-to-charge-greenpeace-activists-over-arctic-protest-act.html
Russia plans to charge Greenpeace
activists over the boarding of an oil platform to campaign
against drilling in the Arctic, investigators said.  The ecological campaigners endangered the security of
workers and property at  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ’s oil rig and resisted Coast
Guard officials, the Investigative Committee in Moscow said on
its website today. “Charges will be filed shortly,” the law-enforcement agency said, without specifying further.  Russian investigators have opened a criminal case against
30 Greenpeace activists from 18 countries for piracy, a charge
that carries a maximum prison sentence of 15 years. They were
remanded in custody at the end of last week for two months in
the port city of Murmansk.  “This case is unpredictable and it’s hard to make any
forecasts,” Vladimir Chuprov, head of the energy program of
Greenpeace’s Russian branch, said today by phone. “But they
seem to be backing away from the piracy charge and desperately
looking for something else to accuse the activists of.”  Greenpeace protesters scaled a Gazprom rig in the Pechora
Sea on Sept. 18. The state-owned company has accused the
environmental organization of endangering the lives of workers
on the rig who were underwater at the time of the protest
action.  Russia’s Coast Guard boarded Greenpeace’s Arctic Sunrise
ship in international waters on Sept. 19, a day after two
protesters scaled the rig, and towed the vessel to Murmansk.
Gazprom plans to become the first Russian company to start
producing oil in Arctic waters at the Prirazlomnoye deposit as
soon as this year. Greenpeace activists scaled the same drilling
platform in 2012.  The detained activists include citizens of the U.S.,
 Finland ,  Argentina , Switzerland, the U.K., Australia, Brazil,
Canada,  Denmark , the Netherlands,  New Zealand , Ukraine, Russia,
France, Italy,  Turkey , Poland and Sweden, according to
Greenpeace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  