-- Samsung, Louboutin, Humane Society: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-09-30T11:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/samsung-louboutin-humane-society-intellectual-property.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the
world’s biggest maker of smartphones, offered to settle a
European Union probe into whether it tried to use mobile-phone
patents to hinder competition from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   “After lengthy discussions, Samsung has sent us a set of
commitments seeking to address our concerns,” EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said in a Sept. 27 speech in  New
York . “We will formally market-test these proposed commitments
with other market participants in the coming weeks.”  The European Commission, the EU’s antitrust regulator, told
Samsung last December that it may have violated competition
rules by seeking injunctions against Apple products in various
European countries based on so-called standard-essential
patents, or SEPs, that it owns.  The EU is cracking down on patent abuses as  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
 Motorola Mobility Holdings (MMI)  unit,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Apple and
Samsung trade victories in divergent court rulings across the
world on intellectual property. Almunia has said he’s targeting
“rules of the game” to prevent companies from unfairly
leveraging their inventions to thwart rivals.  If, after it has tested Samsung’s remedies with rivals and
complainants, the commission concludes that the commitments
address its concerns, “we will take a commitment decision which
would -- I believe -- bring clarity on SEPs and injunctions
across the industry,” Almunia said last week.  Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Almunia, declined to
comment on the details of Samsung’s remedies.  Samsung, based in Suwon, South Korea, said it has been “in
constructive” talks with the EU. It declined to comment on what
remedies it has offered.  The Korean company began seeking injunctions against Apple
in courts in EU countries in 2011, based on alleged infringement
of patents for 3G technology, according to the commission. The
two companies have filed dueling patent lawsuits around the
world over a variety of  intellectual property  issues.  Under phone industry agreements on standards, companies
owning the rights to essential technology must usually license
it to competitors on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory
terms.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Louboutin Seeks Ban on Shoe Image in Anti-Islam Campaign Poster  Christian Louboutin Sarl is asking a Belgian court to order
a campaign against immigration to quit using images of its
famous red-soled shoes in posters denouncing Islam,  Agence
France-Presse   reported .  Belgium’s  Women Against Islamisation ’s poster shows the
legs of the former Miss Belgium, today a senator in a party that
opposes immigration, wearing Louboutins, and lifting her skirt
up high, according to AFP.  Superimposed  on the image  of the senator’s bare leg are a
series of words related to skirt lengths, ranging from “Sharia
compatible” at ankle height to “stoning” up on the thigh, the
news service reported.  The French shoe company told a court in Antwerp that its
reputation is tarnished by the poster and asked for an immediate
ruling barring the use of the image of its shoes, AFP said.  Heineken Seeks to Block Chinese Company’s Use of Trademarks  Heineken NA (HEIA) , the Dutch brewer, accused a Chinese sewing
machine company of pirating its trademarks, the Financial Times
reported.  Wujian Xili Machinery Factory is accused of using the
Heineken name on sewing machines it’s exhibiting at a Shanghai
trade show, according to the Financial Times.  A lawyer for Heineken,  Joseph Simone  of Hong Kong’s  Simone
IP Services , told the Financial Times a company that steals
another’s trademark can block that company from entering the
Chinese market and using Chinese factories to make products.  Wujian Xili’s legal officer, Cai Fuwei, said that the
company hadn’t acted in bad faith in registering the mark and
that the logo the brewer objected to was designed by an outside
entity, the Financial Times reported.  Chateau Listran Changes Name to Fight Chinese Trademark Squatter  A Bordeaux chateau changed its name to sidestep the
unauthorized registration of the name as a Chinese trademark,
Decanter, the spirits and wine news publication,  reported .  Chateau Listran , a  Cru Bourgeois  estate in France’s
northern Medoc region, changed its name to L’Estran after an
unauthorized party registered “Listran’ in  China , according to
Decanter.  The winemaker couldn’t enter China under its original name
unless it managed to void the other registrant’s trademark or
buy back the name, Decanter reported.  Trademark squatters in China will typically sell a mark for
as much as 30,000 euros ($41,000), while the registration of the
chateau’s new name as a trademark cost only 1,000 euros,
according to Decanter.  Humane Society Loses Challenge to ‘Other White Meat’ Sale  The  Humane Society of the U.S.  lost its bid to challenge
the purchase by the National Pork Board of the ‘‘Other White
Meat” slogan and trademark.  A federal judge in  Washington  said the  Humane Society , the
Iowa Citizens for Community Improvement and an individual hog
producer were all ineligible to sue.  The plaintiffs argued that the U.S. Secretary of
Agriculture shouldn’t have approved $35 million purchase of the
slogan and trademarks from the National Pork Producers Council
by the Pork Board. The 15-member board was established under the
1985 Pork Act to strengthen the industry and promote its
products.  Pork producers in the U.S. are required to pay assessments
to the board, with the money going to plans and projects.  The court said none of the plaintiffs could demonstrate
either that the activities of the Pork Board were harmful to
their interests. The suit was dismissed on Sept. 27.  Randy Spronk, the head of the National Pork Producers
Council,  told  the Des Moines Register the case was a “waste of
taxpayers’ money” resulting from a “vendetta” against the
U.S. pork industry.  The case is Humane Society of the United States v. Vilsack,
12-cv-01582, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Singapore Copyright Infringement Defendant Cleared After Death  The defendant in a criminal copyright infringement case in
Singapore was cleared of all charges 19 months after his death,
the  Straits Times   reported .  A Singapore court found that infringement charges hadn’t
been proven against the Michael Chew Choon Leng or his pest-control firm, Alterm Consortech, and ordered a refund of the
fines Chew and his company paid, according to the newspaper.  He had been convicted of unauthorized distribution of
drawings of a system aimed at preventing cockroach invasion into
buildings, according to the newspaper.  His widow pursued the appeal to clear the name of her
husband, who died two weeks after he was sentenced in 2012, the
Straits Times reported.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-Motorola Engineer’s Trade Secret Conviction Upheld on Appeal  Hanjuan Jin, a former  Motorola Inc. (MSI)  software engineer,
failed to win an appeal of her conviction and four-year prison
sentence for trade secret theft.  She was convicted in 2011 of three counts following a
nonjury trial. Indicted in 2008, Jin was accused of working
simultaneously for Motorola and Kai Sun News (Beijing)
Technology Co., also known as SunKaisens, which was affiliated
with China’s military.  Jin filed an appeal, and on Sept. 26, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in  Chicago  said there was adequate evidence of her guilt
and her sentence was actually much lower than recommended by
federal sentencing guidelines. Prosecutors sought a term of as
long as eight years while defense attorneys requested probation.  In the opinion written by U.S. Circuit Judge  Richard
Posner , the court said that “given her egregious conduct, which
included repeatedly lying to federal agents,” Jin was
“fortunate” to have been given such a lenient sentence.  U.S. customs agents stopped Jin as she was about to board a
plane at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport on Feb. 28,
2007. In her possession were more than 1,000 Motorola documents,
$30,000 in cash and a one-way ticket to China.  The technology at issue was related to Motorola’s
Integrated Digital Enhanced Network, which is used in the
“push-to-talk” system that enables handsets to act as walkie-talkies.  Motorola, now known as Motorola Solutions Inc., is a maker
of communications equipment based in Schaumburg, Illinois, about
28 miles (45 kilometers) from Chicago.  While Jin “criminally betrayed” Motorola, prosecutors
failed to convince the judge beyond a reasonable doubt that she
was a Chinese agent.  Her defense attorney,  John Murphy , told the court his
client had survived bouts of meningitis, tuberculosis and
cancer.  The judge who heard the case said Jin’s health was a factor
in her punishment, and her sentence might otherwise have been
longer. He assessed an intended loss of $10 million to $15
million, saying that only Jin’s interdiction by the customs
agents prevented her from leaving the U.S. with stolen secrets.  The lower court case is  U.S. v. Jin, 08-cr-192, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
appeal is U.S. v. Huanjuan Jin, 12-2013, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  