-- San Miguel to Raise $2 Billion Selling Stake in Manila Electric
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-09-30T08:00:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/san-miguel-sells-manila-electric-stake-to-jg-summit-shares-rise.html
San Miguel Corp. (SMC)  said it will raise
$2 billion from the sale of its stake in  Manila Electric Co. (MER)  to
 JG Summit Holdings Inc. (JGS) , helping fuel expansion into airlines,
energy and infrastructure.  Manila Electric, also known as Meralco, surged 4.4 percent,
the most in five months, after the deal was announced. San
Miguel, the Philippines’ largest and most acquisitive company,
and its units hold about 27 percent of the country’s largest
electricity retailer.  The transaction will be the latest in a series of purchases 
and sales by San Miguel, which started as a brewer more than 100
years ago. JG Summit’s purchase of a stake in Meralco, which
sells electricity to a quarter of the nation’s population, marks
retail and property magnate John Gokongwei’s entry into the
power business and fortifies his alliance with billionaire
Anthoni Salim’s  First Pacific Co. (142)   “Manila Electric remains a very valuable franchise with an
attractive dividend yield,” said  James Lago , head of research
at PCCI Securities Brokers Corp. “This Gokongwei-First Pacific partnership could lead to other things. San Miguel
will use proceeds from the sale to fund projects and possibly
refinance debt.”  Brewer’s Transformation  The sale was announced by San Miguel in a regulatory
statement that didn’t include a price. The transaction will
raise $2 billion, company President Ramon Ang said in a mobile-phone text message today. He confirmed the funds raised will be
used for investments.  Ang plans to raise about $4 billion selling power assets,
he said in a July interview, helping fund a $35 billion
investment plan to complete his transformation of the brewer and
foodmaker into an investor in airlines, energy, mining, railways
and roads.  San Miguel, started more than a century ago when the
 Philippines  was still a colony of Spain, has made more than $5.6
billion worth of acquisitions since 2008, when it announced an
investment in Meralco. Its most recent purchase was 35 percent
of Northern Cement Corp. for 3 billion pesos ($69 million)  Meralco  climbed  4.4 percent to close at 286 pesos in Manila
trading, the biggest gain since April 17. San Miguel advanced
0.4 percent to 74.80 pesos after initially rising as much as 2.8
percent. JG Summit fell 1.8 percent to 38.60 pesos.  Most of the San Miguel-owned shares were acquired for about
90 pesos each about 5 years ago, according to the company.  First Pacific  San Miguel and its units held 32.8 percent of Meralco until
July this year when the group started selling the shares.  Meralco provides electricity to an area that accounts for
half of the nation’s gross domestic product. The company, 49.96
percent owned by First Pacific, had a second-quarter profit of
5.42 billion pesos, down 15 percent, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It’s returning to power generation after a four-decade hiatus, with plans to build plants to meet as much as 30
percent of the main Luzon island’s demand.  Manuel Pangilinan , managing director of First Pacific, in
November 2009 beat San Miguel for control of the utility and
ended battle for control that more than tripled Meralco’s share
price that year.  JG Summit, owner of the country’s largest budget carrier
and the second-largest shopping mall operator, had 56.3 billion
pesos in  cash  and short-term investments at the end of the
second quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
2011, it sold its telecommunication unit to  Philippine Long
Distance Telephone Co. (TEL) , where First Pacific is also an investor.  “This transaction gives Manila Electric a more cohesive
board to pursue a strategy with a single mind,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , market strategist at BDO Unibank Inc., the nation’s
largest lender.  “This is an extension of Gokongwei and
Pangilinan’s alliance in PLDT.”  JG Summit and the Philippine infrastructure unit of First
Pacific plan to jointly bid for a 17.5 billion-peso airport
project in Cebu province. JG Summit President Lance Gokongwei in
June said the group’s capital spending will increase to $1.03
billion this year from $926 million in 2012 on higher spending
for its property, airlines, petrochemicals and food ventures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Baizhen at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net  