-- Schwarzman Says Selling BlackRock Was ‘Heroic’ Mistake
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-09-30T18:26:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/schwarzman-says-selling-blackrock-was-heroic-mistake.html
Blackstone Group LP’s  Steve Schwarzman  said his decision 19 years ago to sell what would
become the world’s largest money manager was a “heroic”
mistake.  Blackstone, the largest manager of alternative investments
such as private equity and real estate, in 1994 sold a mortgage-securities unit with $23 billion in assets to PNC Bank Corp. for
$240 million. Schwarzman, Blackstone’s co-founder, had disagreed
with the group’s leader,  Laurence Fink , over methods of
compensation, and the men parted ways. The unit, which traded
mortgages and other fixed-income assets, changed its name during
the sale process from Blackstone Financial Management to
BlackRock Financial Management.  “That was certainly a heroic mistake,” Schwarzman,
chairman and chief executive officer of New York-based
Blackstone, said in an interview with  Arthur Levitt  airing on
 Bloomberg Radio  on Oct. 6. “We all stumble on and have some
success. But it’s a humbling experience to see what you don’t do
right.”  Today,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , which Fink leads as chairman and
CEO, is the world’s biggest money manager, overseeing $3.86
trillion in assets, dwarfing Blackstone’s $230 billion. It has a
market value of $46 billion, compared with Blackstone’s $28
billion.  Schwarzman, 66, is ranked 137th on the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index with a net worth of $8.8 billion. He
personally had a stake of more than 9 percent in the business
when it was sold, which would be worth more than $4 billion at
New York-based BlackRock’s current market capitalization.  ‘Gifted’ Fink  Schwarzman and Blackstone co-founder Pete Peterson were
drawn to Fink in 1988, when the First Boston Corp. banker was
recommended as “by far the most gifted person” at the bank by
Bruce Wasserstein, then First Boston’s co-head of mergers and
acquisitions, according to “King of Capital” by David Carey
and John Morris ( Crown Business , 391 pages, $11.59). Blackstone
gave Fink and his team, which included now- Evercore Partners
Inc. (EVR)  CEO Ralph Schlosstein, a $5 million  credit line  in exchange
for a 50 percent stake in the bond business.  The business turned profitable within months, according to
the book. By 1989 Fink had more than quadrupled the group’s
assets to $2.7 billion. The stake held by Blackstone’s partners
had fallen to 40 percent as Fink’s staff grew.  By 1992, Blackstone’s stake was about 35 percent, according
to the book, and Schwarzman and Fink were planning to raise more
money for the group by selling shares to the public. Fink wanted
to be able to award new hires a stake in the business as a way
of luring them from top banks.  ‘Bitter Divorce’  Schwarzman drew the line, not wanting to drop  Blackstone (BX) ’s
stake any further, according to the book. He resisted Fink’s
demands to sell the business until agreeing to offload it to PNC
in June 1994. Blackstone’s partners made more than $110 million,
with Schwarzman receiving $25 million, the book says.  Since then, the two have reconciled, according to a 2008
BusinessWeek  account  of Fink’s rise. Fink has attended
Schwarzman’s birthday parties and they have given speeches
together.  “It was a very bitter divorce,” Fink said in a 2011
 interview  with the New York Times. “But I don’t regret it. I’m
larger. I’ve never heard from any source in the world anything
but praise from Steve about who I am and what BlackRock is.”  ‘Biggest Issue’  Levitt, who interviewed Schwarzman in two parts at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York, is a director of Bloomberg
LP, parent of  Bloomberg News . He was the longest-serving
chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, leading
the SEC from 1993 to 2001.  Asked what worries him most in the current environment,
Schwarzman said dysfunction in the U.S. government, such as
disagreements between and within the White House and Congress
regarding debt, health care and taxes, hinders all businesses.  “It’s now become almost structural uncertainty,”
Schwarzman said in the first part of the interview, which aired
yesterday. “The biggest issue that worries me is just overall
effective functioning of the U.S. government. The periodic
crises and dysfunction in  Washington  creates problems for all of
us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  