-- Seaport Plans Merger With Global Hunter to Build Boutique
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-09-30T18:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/seaport-plans-merger-with-global-hunter-to-build-boutique.html
Seaport Group LLC , the  credit-market brokerage founded in 2001, agreed to merge with boutique
investment bank Global Hunter Securities LLC to create a full-service firm with more than 300 employees.  The deal between the two closely held companies is expected
to be completed in the fourth quarter, and Mike Meagher, 57, and
Daniel Conwill, 52, will serve as co-chief executive officers of
the combined entity, Seaport and New Orleans-based Global Hunter
said in an e-mailed statement. Terms of the merger, set to be
announced later today, weren’t disclosed.  The agreement unites two firms that have grown since the
financial crisis. Meagher and  Stephen Smith , 53, started New
York-based Seaport as a distressed-debt broker, while Global
Hunter was founded in 2005 by Jefferies Group Inc.’s Conwill to
focus on advising natural-resources companies.  “Our new firm will be one of the few genuinely full-service boutique investment banks able to offer clients
advisory, sales and trading services across all products and
markets,” Meagher said in the statement. “Now more than ever
clients want to work with independent firms with client focus
and best execution as their key values.”  Competing Firms  Seaport’s merger gives it access to other capital-markets
businesses as rival small bond-trading firms consolidate or shut
amid fixed-income volume that’s failed to keep up with the
market’s expansion.  CRT Capital Group LLC, a brokerage backed by Aquiline
Capital Partners LLC, is in talks to combine with Pierpont
Securities LLC, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter. Gleacher & Co. said in April it was closing its fixed-income unit and Knight Capital Group Inc. agreed to sell its
debt-brokerage to Stifel Financial Corp.  The combined firm of Seaport and Global Hunter will have
headquarters in  New York  and  New Orleans , with plans to expand
research to more than 300 covered companies, according to the
statement. The new entity, whose name has yet to be determined,
generated $150 billion in fixed-income transactions and $30
billion in advisory mandates during the past three years.  Seaport has about 200 employees who trade bonds, private
placements and structured products, according to its  website ,
compared with fewer than 60 in 2008. Drew Doscher, 44, the
firm’s co-head of sales and trading with Michael Meyer, 48, left
in January.  Finra Claim  Doscher said he filed an arbitration claim with the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority seeking $15.5 million in
unpaid compensation. Lisa Weiss, a Seaport spokeswoman, declined
to comment on the Finra claim.  Sea Port Group Securities LLC, the company’s brokerage
division, earned $1.52 million from $85.6 million of revenue in
2012, according to a regulatory  filing . That’s up from $29.8
million of revenue in 2008.  Global Hunter, which focuses on energy and shipping
industries, has advised on deals such as Meidu Holdings Co.’s
purchase of Woodbine Acquisition LLC last month for $135
million. Global Hunter added high-yield bond salesmen in recent
years to bolster its position in managing debt sales,
particularly among middle-market clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  