-- Sex-Assault Victims Rejected for Disability to Get Review
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-09-30T20:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/sex-assault-victims-rejected-for-disability-to-get-review.html
Military personnel who were the
victims of sexual assault can seek disability pay for the
psychiatric trauma even if they didn’t officially report the
incident, a U.S. appeals court ruled today.  The decision orders the  Department of Veterans Affairs  to
review the rejected disability requests of two women who said
they suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder after being
assaulted. While acknowledging most victims never report
attacks, the agency denied the women disability pay because
there was no military record of the assaults supporting the
psychiatric diagnoses.  The  Department of Defense  estimates that fewer than 15
percent of sexual assaults were reported to a military authority
between 2006 and 2012. In May, the department estimated 26,000
military men and women may have experienced unwanted sexual
contact last year, compared with 2,949 victims identified in
criminal reports.  “The Secretary expects that many assaults will not have
been reported to authorities, for reasons unrelated to the
merits of the claim,” the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal
Circuit in  Washington   ruled  in a 2-1 decision today.
“Penalizing assault victims for that failure would hardly
comport with a system in which ‘the importance of systemic
fairness and the appearance of fairness carry great weight.’”  In the military, even more than in civilian life, victims
are dissuaded from reporting attacks because it often involves
telling someone who is professionally associated with the
assailant, Circuit Judge Timothy Dyk wrote. As a result, he
said, the absence of a report is irrelevant.  Suicide Attempt  One woman said she was beaten and impregnated by a sergeant
who was her superior in the 1970s, while the other woman
attempted suicide after a sexual assault during her military
training in the 1980s. In both incidents, the women told family
members and co-workers.  The court ordered the cases to be reviewed again to
determine if the women are entitled to disability pay.  “This is a major, major decision,” said Kenneth
Carpenter, a lawyer in Topeka,  Kansas , who argued on behalf of
one of the women. “Anyone who is the victim of any kind of
assault or battery is at the mercy of the fact that the reality
of military service is ‘don’t ask don’t tell.’”  Legislation Considered  Congress is considering legislation that would make it
easier for victims of sexual assault to qualify for disability
benefits. The Federal Circuit ruling relates to current
regulations, Carpenter said.  Allison Price, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said the
government had no comment on the decision.  Circuit Judge Kimberly Moore, the only woman on the three-judge panel, said the lack of a report should be considered in
determining whether to compensate the women. It is up to
Congress to change that, she said.  “It may well be that a low incidence of reporting would
result in little weight being given to the non-reporting, but it
doesn’t render that evidence irrelevant,” Moore wrote.
“Solicitude for veterans does not justify making up rules as we
go along.”  The cases are AZ v. Shinseki, 2012-7046 and AY v. Shinseki,
2012-7048, both  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  