-- Shell Begins Sale of U.S. Shale Assets Following Charge
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-09-30T09:29:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/shell-begins-sale-of-u-s-shale-assets-following-charge.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
biggest oil company, began a sale of U.S. shale assets after
booking a $2.1 billion impairment in the second quarter.  The company will sell its interest in the Eagle Ford
project in  Texas  and plans to open a data room to potential
buyers next month, The Hague-based Shell said today in an e-mailed statement. The company also will divest its holding in
the Mississippi Lime area in  Kansas , it said last week.  The company last quarter booked an impairment charge mostly
related to liquids-rich shale exploration in  North America . It
said in August it will continue losing money producing oil and
gas on the continent this year and announced a review of U.S.
onshore shale projects.  “Our Eagle Ford leasehold and producing asset offers a
valuable growth opportunity for another experienced operator,”
Jonathan French, a London-based company spokesman, said in
today’s statement. Shell’s shale acreage there contains mostly
condensate, with some oil, he said.  Shell held about $24 billion in North American shale assets
on its balance sheet as of July. Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser  said the following month it planned to cut the number of
North American regions where it operates by half to four or
five. It has already exited its  Mahogany  oil-shale research
project in Colorado.  Shell stopped drilling in Kansas in May with a view to
selling its leasehold, Kelly op de Weegh, a Houston-based
spokeswoman, said Sept. 24. The company is selling 600,000 acres
there to focus investment elsewhere, French said today by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  