-- Shutdown Closes Parks, Food Inspectors Stay on Job (Q&A)
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-10-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/shutdown-means-taxes-still-due-as-yellowstone-closes-down.html
The Democrats and Republicans in
Congress failed to reach a budget deal before the end of the
fiscal year, triggering the first partial U.S. government
shutdown in 17 years.  From today, businesses and individuals will see major
 disruptions  in some services, as hundreds of thousands of
federal workers get furloughed. Visitors to National Parks will
be turned away, government economic reports won’t be released,
some federal websites will go offline and Internal Revenue
Service  call centers  will be shuttered.  Essential operations and programs with dedicated funding
would continue, including food-safety inspections, mail
delivery, air-traffic control and Social Security payments.
Here’s a guide:  Q: How soon will I feel an impact?  That depends. If you planned to visit a Smithsonian museum, then
right away. However, some federal agencies, including the Energy
Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission, say they
have funds to continue operating.  Some states and municipalities will need to dip into
alternative funding to close the money gap. San Francisco Mayor
Edwin Lee said the city’s budget could weather a short shutdown
and the temporary loss of federal subsidies. If it continues,
though, the disruption could affect 31,000 San Francisco
families that rely on federal food and nutrition programs, he
said. The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said states might have
funds to continue the supplemental program designed to help
Women, Infants and Children for a week or so.  The Department of Veteran’s Affairs said it can continue
paying benefits until the end of October. Veterans may not
receive payments for disability compensation, pensions or
educational benefits if the  budget crisis  continues into
November, according to the department. Burials at VA cemeteries
“may be on a reduced schedule,” the agency said. Department
medical facilities will remain open.  Q. I’m a federal employee. Do I come to work today?  A. About 800,000 workers out of 2 million federal civilian
workers were affected during a government shutdown in 1995, and
a similar number face furloughs this week. Those federal workers
are required to show up for work before getting notice that they
aren’t required.  Exceptions include jobs not subject to annual
appropriations or those deemed necessary to protect life and
property, like drug enforcement agents or food inspectors at the
U.S. Department of Agriculture. About 85 percent of the  Justice
Department ’s 114,486 employees will be retained during the
shutdown, according to its 2013 shutdown contingency plan.  Some agencies will be rendered almost non-functional: The
Environmental Protection Agency, for example, will send home
more than 90 percent of its workforce home; the Interior
Department, which includes the National Park Service, loses 81
percent of its employees.  Q. What’s the impact on the economy?  A. A shutdown lasting three to four weeks would reduce fourth
quarter-economic growth by as much as 1.4 percentage points,
according to  Mark Zandi  of Moody’s Analytics Inc. A two-week
shutdown could cut growth in the gross domestic product by 0.3
percentage point to a 2.3 percent rate, according to St. Louis-based Macroeconomic Advisers LLC. That would disrupt an economy
that grew at a 2.5 percent annualized rate in the third-quarter,
after expanding 1.1 percent in the first quarter, according to
Commerce Department figures.  Q. I’m supposed to fly on business at the end of the week. Will
my flights be able to operate?  A. Air-traffic controllers at the  Federal Aviation
Administration  and Transportation Security Administration
screeners will remain on the job. All employees of the U.S. bus-safety regulator, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration, are exempt from furlough. The  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration  will suspend work on fuel-economy
standards and crash test star ratings.  Q. My passport needs to be renewed. Should I cancel that trip to
 Europe ?  A. Passport services are partially funded by fees, so as long as
there is money, offices will continue to process applications.
Some passport offices located in government buildings that are
shut due to the budgetary standoff may not be able to operate.  Q. Will my business still have to file reports to the Securities
and Exchange Commission?  A. Yes, 10-Ks, 8-Ks and other corporate filings are still due.
The SEC is able to remain open because it has “carryover
funding that can be used to support agency operations,”
according to an e-mail written by Chairman Mary Jo White that
was sent to staff on Sept. 27. Only about 4 percent of the
workers at the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission will
work under a shutdown. Market oversight and surveillance will
continue but only at “a bare minimum level.” The functions of
its Division of Enforcement will “largely cease,” according to
the CFTC’s 2013 shutdown contingency plan.  Q: What about the  Internal Revenue Service ?  A: All but 9.3 percent of the tax agency’s 94,516 employees
would stay home. That means audits, non-automated collections
and processing of paper tax returns would stop. The IRS would
close its call centers just two weeks before the Oct. 15
deadline for individual taxpayers filing 2012 returns on
extensions.  Q. Will government economic data still be reported?  A. The Commerce Department’s  Bureau of Economic Analysis , which
publishes statistics including gross domestic product, personal
income and international investment, won’t put out its reports
during the shutdown, spokesman Thomas Dail said in a phone
interview. The agency’s website will also go offline, cutting
off access to historical data, he said.  The U.S. Department of Agriculture will suspend crop and
livestock reports, the agency said. That will leave commodities
traders as well as agribusinesses including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM)  without a key tool in judging global supply and
demand.  The Energy Information Administration, which tracks and
analyzes energy data, said its operations will continue
unaffected through at least Oct. 11.  Q. Will federal courts remain open?  A. The federal court system would run for about two weeks
without furloughing staff by tapping into fees from filings and
other sources, according to a statement by U.S. District Judge
 John Bates , who is director of the  Administrative Office of the
U.S. Courts.   Once those funds have been spent, the court system would
continue to handle most cases. Federal judges would remain on
the job, though it is unclear whether magistrate and bankruptcy
judges would be paid until the crisis is resolved.  Q. How will the shutdown affect government contractors?  A: Vendors already working on government projects may continue
their activities, though they may see delays in payments until
Congress finally passes an appropriations bill, according to
Alan Chvotkin, executive vice president of the Arlington,
Virginia-based Professional Services Council, which represents
contractors such as SAIC Inc. and  CACI International Inc. (CA8A)  He
advises smaller companies to “reacquaint yourself with your
banker,” to make sure there is access to credit if government
payments slow.  An extended period of inactivity will delay new contract
awards, which could harm the small businesses that attracted
about $98.2 billion in government awards in 2012.  Q. Will my mother get her Social Security check?  A. Yes. Mail delivery is funded by postage fees, not through  tax
revenue . Social Security checks, which are paid for by mandatory
appropriations, will also continue to go out, though new
applicants may see processing delays. Medicare payments, which
aren’t subject to annual appropriations, would continue.  Q. What about my trip to Yellowstone?  A. You’re out of luck. According to the Interior Department’s
contingency plan: “All areas of the National Park and National
Wildlife Refuge Systems would be closed and public access would
be restricted.” Volunteers who work at park facilities are also
being told to stay home.  Q. What other government services will still operate?  A. The Energy Department won’t process new loan-guarantee
applications but it will still monitor the nation’s nuclear
arsenal. The Centers for Disease Control won’t do its annual
monitoring of flu outbreaks, though staff at the  Food and Drug
Administration  paid for by user fees will continue to oversee
the safety of drugs and medical devices.  About 45 percent of workers at the  National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration  -- 5,368 out of a total of 12,001 --
will be allowed to work in order to perform tasks including
weather forecasting, controlling satellites and managing
fisheries, according to the agency’s contingency plan. Websites
such as www.weather.gov, which provide alerts, will still be
operational during a government shutdown, NOAA spokeswoman
Ciaran Clayton said in an e-mail.  Merger reviews will continue with limited staff at the
antitrust division of the Justice Department and the Federal
Trade Commission, according to postings on the agencies’
websites. Both agencies are mandated to review proposed mergers
filed under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Act.  Q. Will President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers in Congress still
get paid?  A. Yes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  