-- Simpson Thacher Advises KKR on Panasonic: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/simpson-thacher-advises-kkr-on-panasonic-business-of-law.html
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP and
Nishimura & Asahi are representing  KKR & Co. (KKR) , which agreed to
buy  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ’s health-care unit for about 165 billion yen
($1.67 billion). Panasonic received legal advice from Nagashima
Ohno & Tsunematsu.  Simpson Thacher Tokyo corporate partners David Sneider and
Taki Saito are leading the team. Additional Simpson Thacher
partners on the deal include Sinead O’Shea, credit; David Vann,
antitrust; Andrea Wahlquist, executive compensation and employee
benefits; Lori Lesser and Jasmine Kaufman, intellectual
property; and Katherine Moir, tax.  A wholly owned subsidiary of the U.S. private-equity firm
will purchase all shares and assets of  Panasonic Healthcare Co. ,
according to a statement from the companies. KKR then will
allocate 20 percent of the shares of the wholly owned unit to
Panasonic. The Osaka-based Japanese electronics maker expects
the transaction to add 75 billion yen in profit and said it’s
studying the effects of the sale on its annual forecast.  “We believe that partnering with KKR will also allow us to
learn from KKR’s global operational and business management
expertise as we pursue the next stage in growth,” Panasonic
President  Kazuhiro Tsuga  said in the statement.  Panasonic Healthcare, which provides digital medical-record
systems and makes instruments that measure blood glucose, would
be KKR’s biggest acquisition in Japan, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Panasonic is selling control of the unit
as it focuses on a 250 billion-yen plan to reverse  losses  at its
electronics business in the next two years.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Dewey & LeBoeuf’s  New York  Landlord Sues Ex-Partners Over Rent  The New York landlord for defunct law firm Dewey & LeBoeuf
LLP is holding the bankrupt firm’s former partners responsible
for the office rent under a contract that lasts until 2020.  In a filing in Manhattan state court that included four and
a half pages of names, or about 450 lawyers, the landlord, 1301
Properties Owner, alleged that Dewey “partners are jointly and
severally liable for all amounts that are due and will become
due under the lease.”  The suit doesn’t name a specific sum that the landlords are
seeking but requests the unpaid rent, interest, damages and
attorney fees. Rosenberg & Estis PC is representing 1301
Properties.  Dewey once had 1,300 lawyers. The liquidation began under
Chapter 11 in May 2012. At the outset of bankruptcy, there was
secured debt of about $225 million and accounts receivable of
$217.4 million. Dewey’s liquidating Chapter 11 plan was approved
by the  bankruptcy court  in February and implemented in March.  The American Lawyer reported landlord’s complaint earlier.  The case is 1301 Properties Owners v. Abelson, 653342, New
York State Supreme Court, New York County.  The bankruptcy case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  SEC News  SEC Trial Lawyer Who Beat Fabrice Tourre Said to Step Down  Matthew Martens, the head of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission’s trial unit who won a fraud ruling in court
against former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  executive  Fabrice Tourre , is leaving the agency, a person with knowledge of the
matter said.  Martens, 41, joined the SEC in August 2010 as the
enforcement division struggled to restore its reputation after
missing  Bernard Madoff ’s multibillion-dollar fraud. His deputy,
Matthew Solomon, will take over as chief litigation counsel when
he leaves in the coming weeks, said the person, who asked not to
be identified because the decision is not yet public.  Martens, who earlier in his career worked as a law clerk
for former Supreme Court Chief Justice William Rehnquist, was
thrust into the spotlight as the lead trial attorney to argue
the SEC’s case against Tourre, who had been accused of
misleading investors about a financial product linked to
subprime mortgages. Martens’s victory in court bolstered pledges
by SEC Chairman Mary Jo White to seek more onerous settlements
even if it could lead to more trials.  His departure is a setback to White’s efforts to strengthen
the agency’s bench of litigators. In a speech yesterday, White
said having a formidable trial threat is essential for reaching
meaningful settlements with securities violators.  Solomon, 40, joined the SEC in April 2012 from the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the  District of Columbia , where he was
chief of the fraud unit. He holds degrees from  Wesleyan
University  and  Georgetown University Law Center .  Solomon began his career as a law clerk for U.S. Judge
James Robertson in the District Court for the District of
Columbia. He also served as a clerk for Judge Dennis Jacobs in
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit, the SEC said.  Martens, who is in talks with several private law firms,
hasn’t decided where he will work after leaving the SEC,
according to the person.  Moves  Jones Day Strengthens Tax, Finance Practices in Paris  Jones Day said partner Siamak Mostafavi and an associate
will join the tax practice in the Paris office. They were both
previously at Allen & Overy LLP’s Paris office, where Mostafavi
founded the tax team in 1999, the firm said.  Mostafavi focuses on advising financial institutions on the
tax aspects of financial and derivatives products. He will play
a senior role along with partner Emmanuel de La Rochethulon, who
has a taxation practice focused on M&A, complex restructurings
and real estate, the firm said in a statement.  Jones Day  has 40 offices in cities throughout the world.  Colleen Hart Joins Proskauer in Los Angeles From Jones Day  Proskauer Rose LLP said Colleen M. Hart joined the firm as
an executive compensation and employee benefits partner in the
 Los Angeles  office. She was previously at Jones Day.  Hart focuses on transactional matters and executive
compensation. She has more than a decade of experience
representing public companies, boards, private-equity firms and
management teams on benefits and compensation issues related to
M&A, bankruptcies, financings and public offerings, the firm
said in a statement.  Proskauer has lawyers at offices in the Americas,  Europe 
and Asia.  Morrison & Foerster Adds Energy and Financial Services Lawyer  Morrison & Foerster LLP  said Julian E. Hammar joined the
energy and financial service regulatory practices in Washington.
Hammar, who was previously an assistant general counsel at the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, joined the firm from
Covington & Burling LLP, where he was special counsel.  Hammar has experience with matters related to Dodd-Frank
compliance, the Commodity Exchange Act and CFTC regulatory
enforcement. His practice focuses on futures, derivatives and
commodities, energy regulatory compliance and enforcement,
corporate and securities matters, the firm said.  “Dodd Frank established a comprehensive regime through
which the CFTC regulates swaps and other kinds of derivatives
and commodities,” Bradley Lui, managing partner of the
Washington office, said in a statement. “Julian’s considerable
experience at the CFTC, including drafting key rule-making
provisions, will prove a tremendous asset to our clients as they
navigate exchange rules, disclosure regulations and pricing
requirements.”  The firm has more than 1,000 lawyers in 17 offices
worldwide.  DLA Piper Adds Employment Partner Durham in San Francisco  DLA Piper LLP said David Durham joined the firm’s
employment practice in  San Francisco . He was most recently at
Arnold & Porter LLP.  Durham’s practice focuses on traditional labor and
employment matters, including representing employers in union
elections, unfair labor practices, collective bargaining
negotiations, outsourcing, strike preparation and other matters,
the firm said in a statement.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in more than 30 countries in
the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the  Middle East .  Olshan Adds Corporate/Securities, Real Estate Partners  Olshan Frome Wolosky LLP added Spencer G. Feldman as a
member of the corporate/securities law practices in New York. He
was previously at Greenberg Traurig LLP.  Alexander Ferrini has also joined the firm and will head
the construction law group in Olshan’s real estate law practice.
He was previously at his own firm.  Feldman, who has been an attorney for more than 25 years,
concentrates his practice on initial public offerings, follow-on
offerings, PIPEs and other private financings, and reverse
public offerings, among other matters, the firm said in a
statement. He has been counsel to emerging technology business
ventures, including companies involved in digital advertising,
social media sponsorships, among other matters.  Ferrini’s practice is focused on representing owners
including public institutions, institutional developers, private
developers and individuals in identifying and resolving their
construction project problems.  Olshan has lawyers at offices in New York and New Jersey.  Golenbock Eiseman Adds Kyle Foley in Corporate Practice  Kyle Foley joined Golenbock Eiseman Assor Bell & Peskoe LLP
in their corporate practice. He joins the firm from Zuckerman
Gore Brandeis & Crossman LLP where he was of counsel.  Foley’s practice concentrates on finance, commercial
lending and general corporate work. He has experience
representing banks, private equity funds, and corporate clients
in connection with the structuring, negotiation and lead
documentation of various large-cap and middle market asset based
and  cash flow  based secured lending transactions and private
equity investment transactions, the firm said in a statement.  Golenbock Eiseman is a full-service Manhattan law firm of
approximately 50 attorneys.  General Counsel  Facebook Adds Gibson Dunn Lawyer to Deputy General Counsel Post  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP’s former information technology
and data privacy group co-chairwoman, Ashlie Beringer, is moving
to Facebook Inc.’s legal department, where she will become vice
president and deputy general counsel, according to Corporate
Counsel magazine. She fills the role vacated by Colin Stretch,
who became general counsel in June.  Beringer advised Facebook on an investigation by the
Federal Trade Commission and she has handled privacy claims
settlements, among other matters, the magazine  reported .  Facebook’s legal department currently has about 75 people,
according to the magazine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  