-- Slovenia Wants to Borrow $5.4 Billion as Aid Risk Grows
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-09-30T14:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/slovenia-wants-to-borrow-5-4-billion-as-aid-risk-grows.html
Slovenia plans to borrow as much as
4 billion euros ($5.4 billion) next year to repay maturing debt
and finance the budget as talk of a possible bailout for the
nation’s ailing banks intensifies.  The government approved a two-year budget spending program,
which includes a plan to narrow the  budget deficit  to 3.3
percent of gross domestic product in 2014 from this year’s
estimate of 4 percent excluding aid for banks, Finance Minister
Uros Cufer said in the capital Ljubljana today. The country
doesn’t need a bailout immediately, Cufer said, rejecting a call
from opposition politicians to speed up request for assistance.  “We plan to borrow as much as 4 billion in 2014,” Cufer
told reporters. “At the moment we don’t see the need to
consider a bailout as we first have to deal with the budget and
then the results of bank stress tests and asset quality
reviews.”  The Adriatic nation has been the focus of a possible
bailout since March after the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  devised a rescue plan for Cyprus
that triggered a sell-off in weaker euro-region economies and
exposed Slovenia’s ailing bank industry. The country’s non-performing loans equal more than a fifth of its economic output.  Prime Minister Alenka Bratusek has pledged to fix the banks
by raising their capital and shifting non-performing loans to a
bad bank, a move delayed by a dispute with the EU over the
lenders’ capital needs and the value of their bad assets.  Jansa, Delay  Slovenia should ask for financial assistance from its
European partners as any delay drives the cost of the rescue
plan higher “by the day,” former premier  Janez Jansa , leader
of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the biggest opposition group,
said today in Ljubljana at a separate event.  Slovenia has enough cash reserves to finance the budget and
aid banks without seeking more funds on the international  debt
market  this year, Cufer reiterated today. The government has set
aside 1.2 billion euros to recapitalize the largest banks
including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d., he said.  Jansa’s statement “underscores increased talk of seeking
foreign assistance across different layers of Slovenia’s
political landscape,” Abbas Ameli-Renani, an emerging-markets
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group in  London  said in an
e-mail. “The taboo is broken and it implies that if the
government does decide to seek foreign assistance, it can do so
without much domestic political resistance.”  Bratusek first mentioned last week that the government and
the nation’s central bank are discussing the option of aiding
banks via the European Stability Mechanism, the euro-region’s
rescue fund. She said that is just an option for the country,
not a done deal.  Talk of a bailout “is positive in the sense that the
sovereign credit should be able to get away without too much
domestic political noise should the ESM come to the fore,”
Ameli-Renani said.  The yield on the nation’s dollar-denominated bonds maturing
in 2022 advanced 5 basis points from Friday’s close, or 0.05
percent, to 6.53 percent at 2:46 p.m. in Ljubljana, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  