-- SMIC Slumps as PMI Trims Quarterly Gain: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-09-30T20:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/smic-slumps-as-pmi-trims-quarterly-gain-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks declined in New York,
paring the gauge’s best quarterly gain in three years, after a
lower-than-estimated reading in a manufacturing  index (HSCEI)  spurred
concern economic growth is slowing.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese stocks in the U.S. slid 0.6 percent to 101.46. Computer
chip foundry  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp. (SMI) 
slipped to a five-month low and  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  traded
at the largest discount since June to its Hong Kong stock after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating to junk.  Bona Film Group Ltd. (BONA) 
rallied after saying  Fosun International Ltd. (656)  will buy a stake.  The slump cut a three-month advance in the China-US gauge
to 18 percent, still the  best quarterly performance  since 2010.
The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index for China from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics rose to 50.2 in September, less than the
51.2 median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The U.S.
stalemate over the  federal budget , which increased the
likelihood of a government shutdown, helped cause a rout in
emerging-market equities.  “A lot of local investors I spoke to are concerned that
growth will start to decelerate again, like what we saw with the
HSBC PMI today,”  Michael Wang , an emerging-markets strategist
at Amiya Capital LLP in London, said by e-mail yesterday.
“People are also selling for profits after the big bounce in
Chinese equities as the U.S. budget dilemma are causing
volatilities.”  ETF Sinks  The iShares China Large-Cap  ETF (FXI) , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., sank 1.5 percent to $37.08 in
a fifth day of declines, paring its gain last quarter to 14
percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated 0.6 percent,
for a quarterly rally of 4.7 percent.  SMIC, as the Shanghai-based semiconductor maker is known,
slumped 1.1 percent to $3.47 in New York, the lowest close since
April.  Phoenix New Media Ltd. (FENG) , a Beijing-based TV and Internet
news outlet, slid 3.8 percent to $11.25, paring its advance over
the past three months to 105 percent, the biggest quarterly gain
since its U.S. listing in May 2011.  Yanzhou coal, the country’s fourth-largest producer of the
fuel, sank 2.5 percent to $9.56.  S&P cut Yanzhou’s credit rating to BB+ from BBB-, saying
the company will continue to have a “weak” financial position
in the next 12-18 months due to “subdued coal prices and still
high leverage,” Jian Cheng, a Hong Kong-based analyst at the
rating company said in a report yesterday.  Solar Surge  Bona Film’s ADRs advanced 2.1 percent to a six-week high of
$5.25.  The Beijing-based company said Fosun and its units will buy
2 million of Bona’s shares, representing a 6.4 percent stake, at
an average price of $5.20 per ADR. Fosun will purchase the
shares from Bona’s existing shareholders, it said in a statement
yesterday.  Suntech Power Holdings Co., a solar-panel maker which was
forced into bankruptcy in March by local banks, surged 26
percent to $1.70, the highest close since February. LDK Solar
Co., based in Xinyu,  China , jumped 30 percent to $1.93, rallying
the most since 2009.  China will rebate 50 percent of value-added tax payments to
taxpayers who sell self-produced solar-powered electricity,
according to a statement dated Sept. 23 which was posted
yesterday on the Ministry of Finance’s website. The policy will
be effective today through Dec. 31, 2015, the ministry said.  Qunar Cayman Islands Ltd., an online travel service company
in which Baidu Inc. has a controlling stake, filed yesterday to
sell $125 million of shares on the New York Stock Exchange.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index dropped 1.7 percent
to 10,316.12, sliding the most in a month. The gauge increased
11 percent for the quarter. The Shanghai Composite Index added
0.7 percent to a one-week high of 2,174.67, increasing 9.9
percent for the quarter. The markets in Shanghai and  Hong Kong 
will be closed today for the National Day holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  