-- SNC Hires Morgan Stanley-RBC Team to Study AltaLink Sale
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-09-30T20:28:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/snc-hires-morgan-stanley-rbc-team-to-study-altalink-stake-sale.html
SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) ,  Canada ’s
biggest engineering and construction company, hired  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and  Royal Bank of Canada  to help sell an equity stake in
its AltaLink power-transmission unit.  SNC will explore all options for the unit, including a
private sale, public market alternatives or strategic
partnership, according to a statement today. The Montreal-based
company’s shares rose the most in more than three months.  Chief Executive Officer Robert Card, who took over a year
ago, is reshaping SNC after a corruption scandal involving his
predecessor that led to a fraud investigation and investor
lawsuits. Card told analysts in August he wanted the company to
exit some infrastructure investments as they reach maturity.  AltaLink is worth about C$10 per SNC share, or about C$1.5
billion ($1.46 billion), Pierre Lacroix, a Desjardins Capital
Markets analyst in  Montreal , said in a note to clients. A sale
of a 20 percent to 25 percent stake in the unit “seems to be
likely,” said Lacroix, who recommends buying SNC shares.  Today’s announcement “reinforces our view that SNC is
making substantive progress toward the goals set out at its
annual meeting in May,” he said. Selling part of the AltaLink
holding “represents a catalyst for the shares.”  SNC climbed 2.4 percent to C$42.35 at the close in Toronto,
its largest advance since June 7. This year, the  shares  have
risen 5 percent, topping the  Standard & Poor’s /TSX Composite
Index’s 2.8 percent gain.  ‘Build Value’  The sale process “represents a significant advancement of
our plan to rebalance our portfolio of infrastructure
concessions to build value for our company,” Gerry Grigoropoulos, an SNC executive vice president, said in the
statement.  AltaLink, founded in 2002, operates and maintains about
12,000 kilometers (7,500 miles) of transmission lines and 280
substations in the western Canadian province of  Alberta . The
company owns more than half of Alberta’s transmission grid and
serves 85 percent of its population.  Any transaction would be subject to regulatory approval by
the Alberta Utilities Commission, Matthew Kolodzie, an analyst
at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto, said in a note to clients.  AltaLink plans to invest about C$6.5 billion in the next
six years, Maxim Sytchev, an analyst at Dundee Capital Markets
in Toronto, said in a June 4 note to investors.  “SNC needs to support AltaLink’s capital expenditures over
the coming number of years,” Sytchev, who rates the shares buy,
said in a note today. “While SNC is in a net cash position,
AltaLink’s cash requirements would have still posed a drag to
SNC’s cash balance. A sale to a strategic or passive investor is
even better when compared to a spinoff as it creates a mark-to-market transaction while ‘cementing’ the value.”  AltaLink contributed net income of C$31.1 million in the
first six months of 2013, up from C$24.2 million a year earlier,
SNC said Aug. 2 in a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  