-- Sovereign Funds Boosting Alternative Investments, Invesco Says
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2013-09-30T13:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/sovereign-funds-boosting-alternative-investments-invesco-says.html
Sovereign wealth funds, which
control about $6 trillion of wealth globally, are boosting
investments in alternative assets like real estate and private
equity to increase returns, a survey by  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ)  found.  The wide swings in equity prices and the “market-wide
dissatisfaction with risk-return profile of equity investing,”
together with low  interest rates  on fixed-income products, has
pushed government-controlled funds to consider alternative
assets to enhance growth, Invesco said in a report released in
Dubai today. Alternative investments include international and
local private equity, real-estate,  hedge funds , infrastructure
and commodities, according to the report.  Alternative investments made up 21 percent of the total
assets of sovereign wealth funds in the west and these assets
rose 26 percent in value over the last 12 months. The 29
surveyed funds, which controlled about 80 percent of global
sovereign wealth fund assets, expected average annual returns of
8 percent from alternative assets, compared with 7 percent from
equities, 4 percent from bonds and 2 percent from cash.  “There is also an increasing trend of direct investment in
private equity rather than through third party funds,” Nick
Tolchard, Invesco’s managing director for sovereign investors,
told a news conference today. Middle East sovereign funds
including the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority and the  Kuwait
Investment Authority  held about $2 trillion in assets, he said.  Invesco had $705.6 billion of assets under management at
the end of June. Its second-quarter profit rose 32 percent to
$202.6 million as equity market gains boosted assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  