-- Spanish Economy Still ‘Poses Headwinds’ for Lenders, IMF Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-09-30T15:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/spanish-economy-still-poses-headwinds-for-lenders-imf-says.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
said a Spanish economy that’s still struggling to grow continues
to “pose headwinds” for the country’s lenders, and it welcomed
efforts to limit bank dividends.  “Supervisory actions to strengthen solvency and reduce
risks should continue to prioritize measures that increase
nominal capital (e.g. limiting cash dividends and issuing
equity) over ones that reduce lending,” the IMF said today in a
statement on its mission to monitor Spain’s compliance with
terms of the banking-industry bailout. In a separate statement,
the European Commission and  European Central Bank  said Spain’s
economy continued to weigh on banks and called on regulators to
“monitor decisively” the country’s lenders.  Spain took 41.3 billion euros ($55.9 billion) in European
aid to shore up its banking system as concern mounted last year
that  losses  building up at former savings banks such as the
 Bankia (BKIA)  group would harm government finances. Spanish banks
continue to face challenges as the economy struggles to grow
after a five-year slump, driving up  bad loans  to record levels
and sapping  demand for credit .  “The mission found that implementation of Spain’s
financial sector remains on track,” the Washington-based IMF
said. “Nearly all the measures specified in the program have
now been implemented.”  The Bank of Spain said in June that banks should moderate
dividends in 2013 depending on their individual situation and
capped cash dividends at 25 percent of net income. In its report
today, the IMF said it welcomed that recommendation and urged
supervisors to avoid taking steps on capital that might
exacerbate already tight lending conditions in  Spain .  The IMF also said it backed proposals to improve bank
capital by allowing lenders to convert their deferred tax assets
into tax claims. Even so, banks that do so should take other
actions such as limiting dividends and raising capital “to
further strengthen their balance sheets” so that they can
foster economic growth by lending more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  