-- Stress in Midlife Linked to Higher Risk of Alzheimer’s Disease
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2013-09-30T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/stress-in-midlife-linked-to-higher-risk-of-alzheimer-s-disease.html
Stress in middle age may contribute
to development of Alzheimer’s disease later in life, according
to a Swedish study spanning almost 40 years.  Psychological stress was associated with a 21 percent
greater risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease, according to a
study of 800 Swedish women born between 1914 and 1930 who
underwent neuropsychiatric tests periodically between 1968 and
2005. The research, led by Lena Johansson at the Sahlgrenska
Academy at the University of Gothenburg was  published  today in
the journal BMJ Open.  “This suggests that common psychosocial stressors may have
severe and long-standing physiological and psychological
consequences,” the authors said in the published paper.  The research points to a potential non-medical approach to
preventing some cases of dementia, which afflicts at least 35.6
million people globally, according to the Geneva-based  World
Health Organization . No drugs on the market have been shown to
slow progression of the disease. While more studies are needed
to confirm the results, interventions such as stress management
and behavioral therapy should be investigated, the authors said.  During the monitoring period, 153 women, about a fifth of
the total, developed dementia, diagnosed at the average age of
78. About half the women died, at the average age of 79.  Biological Mechanisms  A quarter of the women reported at least one stressor, with
mental illness in a family member the most common. The link
between psychological stressors and dementia can be explained
through a variety of biological mechanisms, such as causing
structural and functional damage to the hippocampus, which plays
a role in memory and spatial navigation, as well as increasing
build-up of beta amyloid plaque and tau protein, typical signs
of Alzheimer’s, according to the study’s authors.  “From this study, it is hard to know whether stress
contributes directly to the development of dementia, whether it
is purely an indicator of another underlying risk in this
population of women, or whether the link is due to any entirely
different factor,” said Simon Ridley, head of research at
Alzheimer’s Research U.K., a Cambridge-based charity.  “An important next step will be to investigate the
potential reasons for the observed association between midlife
stress and dementia risk.”  The research was funded by organizations including the
Swedish Medical Research Council, the Swedish Council for
Working Life and Social Research and the U.S. National
Institutes on Aging.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  