-- Sunday Shopping Gets a Committee as Hollande Seeks to End Clash
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2013-09-30T12:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/sunday-shopping-gets-a-committee-as-hollande-seeks-to-end-clash.html
Sunday shopping is turning into a
political hot potato for French President  Francois Hollande .  Faced with a standoff over stores wanting to open Sunday and
unions opposing it, his Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault today
did what he often does in such cases: he named a committee to
study the issue.  “Sunday rest is an essential principle in terms of
protecting labor and for social cohesion,” Ayrault said in a
statement. “At the same time, Sunday work is a reality.”  Socialist President Hollande’s government is seeking to
strike a balance between appeasing unions, which are asking that
stores remain closed on Sundays, and dealing with near-record
joblessness and sliding purchasing power, with many employees
willing to work extra hours for additional pay. France has 3.24
million people looking for work. The 10.5 percent  unemployment 
rate in metropolitan France is at a 14-year high.  Ayrault today named Jean-Paul Bailly, 66, who recently
retired as chairman and chief executive officer of  La Poste , the
French postal service, to “study the weaknesses of the current
law, consider the ramifications of certain businesses opening on
Sunday, and making propositions to the government.”  Since become prime minister in May 2012, Ayrault has created
“missions” to make proposals on issues including taxation of
Internet companies, the tax status of non-profits, the prices
paid to egg farmers, violence in schools, prison conditions in
overseas territories, and how to promote exports.  His latest committee will study a 1906 law that forbids most
non-food retailers in  France  to open on Sunday.  Confusing Rules  The law has been modified over the years, leaving a mishmash
of rules. Stores can open Sunday on the Champs Elysees avenue in
Paris, although not on the “Grands Boulevards,” which have the
largest department stores.  Furniture and gardening stores can remain open, while do-it-yourself outlets can’t. Some food stores can be open all day,
others just the morning. All stores can choose five Sundays a
year to open, with most generally opting for Christmas time and
during twice-a-year sales. Family-owned neighborhood grocery
stores, aren’t affected by the law.  Two do-it-yourself chains --  Kingfisher Plc (KGF) ’s Castorama and
Groupe Adeo’s Leroy Merlin -- kept some stores open yesterday
even after a court ruling last week ordering them shut.  That follows last week’s decision by a Paris court that the
Champs Elysees branch of  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) ’s
Sephora cosmetic chain must close no later than 9 p.m.  Castorama’s Case  The disputes pitted workers who want to earn extra money
against unions that say they want to protect the interest of all
workers.  “Once Sunday work becomes generalized, do you think no one
will be forced to work Sunday?” Eric Scherrer, head of the
Interprofessional Union of Commerce Workers, said in an
interview with France Inter radio today.  Castorama kept four Paris suburban stores open yesterday
even though the Bobigny commercial court Sept. 26 ordered them
to stop opening Sunday. An outside spokeswoman for Castorama
said the company had already entered appeals, and local
authorities had given them permission to stay open. She said the
company doesn’t know if they’ll be allowed to open next Sunday.  Castorama says it has polled its employees and 93 percent
favor being allowed to work Sunday. No one is forced to work
Sunday, when salaries are 50 percent higher.  Public Support  Those bonuses only exist because of laws limiting Sunday
work, said Scherrer. “Do you think they will continue to pay
those bonuses?” he asked.  A total of 4 million people work in retail, Scherrer said,
and “they already work six days out of seven, which is more
than enough for all of us to buy the things we need.”  According to a CSA poll for the business federation FMB
released in April, about 52 percent of the French favor of
Sunday store openings for the home-improvement sector. For
residents of the Paris region, approval stood at 74 percent.  In the case of LVMH’s Sephora, the Champs Elysees branch
stayed open until midnight and 1 a.m. on weekends. A Paris court
ruled it was breaking rules that limit night work to culture and
essential services.  More than 50 Sephora’s employees attended the hearing to
support the company’s position.  Sunday and night work has risen over the past 20 years,
according to state statistical institute Insee. About 3 million
people work regularly Sunday and 3.5 million occasionally, while
16.2 million never do, according to Insee’s 2013 yearbook. The
29 percent who work Sunday is up from 20 percent in 1990.  Another 3.5 million work between midnight and 5 a.m., an
increase of one million since 1990.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  