-- Swiss Stocks Drop on Italian Government Confidence Vote
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-09-30T08:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/swiss-stocks-drop-on-italian-government-confidence-vote.html
     Sept. 30 (Bloomberg) -- Swiss stocks  declined, after the
benchmark Swiss Market Index posted a weekly loss, as Italian
Prime Minister Enrico Letta fought to save his administration
and the U.S. faced its first government shutdown in 17 years.  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  slid 2.7 percent after Citigroup Inc. lowered
its recommendation on the world’s largest maker of crop
chemicals.  Clariant AG (CLN)  slipped 0.9 percent as it acquired the
organic pigment business of Jiangsu Multicolor Fine Chemical Co.
 Aryzta AG (ARYN)  rose 3.1 percent as the owner of bakery businesses
reported full-year revenue that beat analysts’ estimates.  The  SMI (SMI)  fell 0.7 percent to 8,000.21 at 9:56 a.m. in
Zurich. The equity benchmark has still climbed 3.3 percent in
September, extending its gain this quarter to 4.1 percent, as
the Federal Reserve refrained from reducing its monthly bond
purchases. It has rallied 17 percent so far in 2013, the third-best performance by a European developed market. The broader
Swiss Performance Index also slipped 0.7 percent today.  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
today was 12 percent lower than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In  Italy , Letta said he will request a confidence vote for
Oct. 2 to try to save his five-month-old administration after
Silvio Berlusconi withdrew his support from the ruling coalition
and pulled his ministers from the cabinet.  The U.S. government faces its first partial shutdown since
1996 at midnight tonight after a weekend without negotiations or
compromise from either the House or Senate to avert it.  U.S. Shutdown  The House of Representatives voted 231-192 yesterday to tie
funding for the federal government to clauses that remove many
of the Affordable Care Act’s central provisions for one year.
Should the Senate reject the bill today, the government may shut
down from tomorrow.  That would reduce fourth-quarter economic growth by as much
as an annualized 1.4 percentage points, depending on its length,
according to economists. The Congressional Research Office
estimated that the shutdown from 1995 to 1996 cost the
government $1.4 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  