-- U.K. High-Speed Rail Won’t Hit Other Plans, McLoughlin Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-09-30T16:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/u-k-high-speed-rail-won-t-hit-other-projects-mcloughlin-says.html
U.K. Transport Secretary Patrick McLoughlin said the building of a high-speed rail line between
 London  and the north of  England  will not suck investment from
other transport projects.  The line, known as HS2, will make Britain stronger,
McLoughlin said in a speech to the  Conservative Party ’s annual
conference in Manchester, one of the northern cities the line
will reach. He dismissed the “moaning” of London-based
critics.  “Don’t let anyone dare tell you we’re starving our
existing transport network in order to feed bigger projects,”
McLoughlin told delegates. “In the next Parliament we’re
putting more than three times as much money into things like
roads and other rail schemes.”  McLoughlin said he will listen to the critics of the line,
which will go through Conservative-voting rural districts, while
insisting that the government is committed to the project. He
sought to draw a contrast with  Ed Balls , the Treasury spokesman
for the opposition  Labour Party , who last week hinted that a
future Labour government might back out of the 50 billion-pound
($80 billion) project.  “The thing about infrastructure is it is built over
decades and lasts over centuries. You can’t fix it all in one
Parliament, it needs persistence,” he said. “Not starting with
a plan then giving up. We’ve seen that happen before.”  Johnson Optimism  The Conservative mayor of London,  Boris Johnson , said he’s
optimistic agreement can be reached with new HS2 Chairman David Higgins over concerns that his transport commissioner, Peter Hendy, has raised about the plans for the line in the U.K.
capital.  Hendy said in an interview with the London Evening Standard
newspaper that he wants a section put in a tunnel, a new station
built and the cancellation of a link to Eurostar services at
London  St. Pancras . He is also seeking a guarantee that the next
phase of the trans-London Crossrail link would be funded as a
condition of building the second phase of HS2.  “We are working on that, and I am very confident we will
be able to do a deal with David Higgins and make sure we get
what we need,” Johnson said in an interview near Manchester
today.  Construction of HS2 is due to begin in 2017, with the first
part of the line, from London to Birmingham, opening in 2026.
After Birmingham the line will split, with tracks going to
Manchester and Leeds. These sections won’t open until 2033.  McLoughlin also announced plans for ultra-fast broadband on
the rail network, benefiting 70 percent of travelers by 2019.  Network Rail Ltd.’s mobile-phone infrastructure will be
upgraded to tackle “not-spots” and equipment will be installed
on trains to remove barriers to good reception, the Department
for Transport said in an e-mailed statement. Network Rail will
draw up a business case for funding the work, DfT said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in Manchester at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  