-- U.K. Mortgage Approvals Rise to Highest Since 2008
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-09-30T10:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/u-k-mortgage-approvals-rise-to-highest-since-2008.html
U.K.  mortgage approvals  rose to the
highest in more than five years in August as the government
prepares to accelerate a home-buying program that’s been
criticized for potentially over-stimulating the market.  Lenders granted 62,226 mortgages, the most since February
2008, compared with a revised 60,914 the previous month, the
 Bank of England  said in a monthly report in  London  today. The
improvement in home-loan growth contrasts with business lending,
which fell the most in eight months in August.  Hometrack said today  house prices  rose the most in more
than six years this month and Prime Minister David Cameron
yesterday brought forward by three months the second phase of
his “Help to Buy” mortgage plan, saying it will start within
days. The program has drawn criticism it may help fuel a
property bubble, prompting the government last week to give the
Bank of England the power to perform annual checks on it.  There is a “continued divergence across the household and
the corporate sectors,” said  Jens Larsen , chief European
economist at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. “This picture will
remain a worrying one for the Bank of England. While most
commentators are focused on the risk of an overextended
household sector, the bank is likely to concentrate its effort
on improving credit to the corporate sector.”  The number of mortgage approvals exceeded the 61,500 figure
that was the  median estimate  of 20 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. Net mortgage lending rose 974 million pounds ($1.57
billion) in August, the central bank said. Consumer credit
increased 577 million pounds.  Company Lending  Business lending fell 3.8 billion pounds in August from
July, the most since December and more than three times the
average decline over the past six months. Lending is down 3.6
percent compared with a year earlier. For small- and medium-sized companies, lending has fallen 3.2 percent over the past
year, according to the BOE.  “These figures are extremely disappointing, and show that
Britain’s business finance system remains broken,” said Adam Marshall, director of policy at the British Chambers of
Commerce. “While bigger and older companies can get finance
when they need it, many young, dynamic, and fast-growing
businesses are still frozen out.”  The pound rose 0.1 percent against the dollar today and was
trading at $1.6161 as of 11:32 a.m. London time. The benchmark
10-year government bond  yield  was down 2 basis points at 2.69
percent.  Help to Buy  The BOE also said foreign investors sold a net 6 billion
pounds of gilts in August, the most since June 2012. That
followed a net purchase of 1.3 billion pounds in July. It said
M4, a broad measure of  money supply , rose 0.7 percent in August
from July and increased 2.1 percent from a year earlier.  According to the Hometrack report,  house prices  in England
and  Wales  rose 0.5 percent in September after a 0.4 percent gain
in August. Annual price inflation accelerated to 2.4 percent.
Prices rose in nine of 10 regions tracked by Hometrack. London
led gains, with a 0.8 percent increase.  The first phase of Help to Buy -- interest-free loans for
buyers of newly built homes -- began in April and has already
contributed to the strongest housing market since the financial
crisis. The second will provide government-guaranteed mortgages
for buyers with a deposit of as little as 5 percent of the value
of a home costing as much as 600,000 pounds.  With the plan facing criticism, Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  has downplayed risks of a property bubble, saying
the housing market outside London remains weak. While the BOE
has said property activity remains below its historic average,
it will be “vigilant” to any risks.  “There is a mounting danger that house prices could really
take off,” said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global
Insight in London. “It is therefore of vital importance that
policy makers closely monitor the situation and are prepared to
act quickly and decisively if signs of the housing market
overheating become increasingly widespread and pronounced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  