-- U.K. Stocks Decline Amid Political Impasse in U.S., Italy
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-09-30T16:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/u-k-stocks-decline-amid-political-impasse-in-u-s-italy.html
U.K. stocks  fell to their lowest
level in a month, paring a quarterly gain, as Italy’s government
faced collapse and the U.S. government neared a partial shutdown
that would slow growth in the world’s biggest economy.  A measure of London-listed mining stocks slipped to a four-week low as a report showed manufacturing in  China  expanded at a
slower pace than economists had predicted.  Salamander Energy Plc (SMDR) 
slumped 9.6 percent after saying it abandoned an exploratory
well in the Gulf of Thailand.  Persimmon Plc (PSN)  gained 2.4 percent
as JPMorgan Chase & Co. upgraded its rating on the housebuilder.  The FTSE 100 Index lost 50.44 points, or 0.8 percent, to
6,462.22 at the close of trading in  London . The equity benchmark
still gained 0.8 percent this month as the Federal Reserve
unexpectedly refrained from reducing its monthly asset
purchases. The gauge rose 4 percent in the third quarter,
bringing its advance so far this year to 9.6 percent. The
broader FTSE All-Share Index also fell 0.7 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index slipped 0.1 percent.  “It seems an impossibility to form a stable government in
 Italy  that can guide it through the structural reforms it
urgently needs,” said Jeremy Gaudichon, who helps oversee about
$1.1 billion at KBL Richelieu Gestion in Paris. “This is a very
negative message for the markets. Negotiations in the U.S. have
been extremely tough.”  Volumes Drop  The number of shares changing hands today in FTSE 100-listed stocks was 6.5 percent lower than the average of the past
30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  In Italy, Prime Minister Enrico Letta said he will request
a confidence vote for Oct. 2 in an attempt to find a new
parliamentary majority for his government. Silvio Berlusconi
withdrew his support and pulled his ministers out of the cabinet
on Sept. 28. The governing coalition had relied on the votes of
lawmakers from the People of Liberty to pass its laws.  U.S. politicians have just one day to end a stalemate that
raises the risk of the first partial shutdown since 1996,
following a weekend without negotiations or compromise from
either the Senate or the House of Representatives to avert it.  Failure to approve funding to keep the government open
would reduce fourth-quarter economic growth by as much as 1.4
percentage points at an annual pace, according to economists.
The biggest effect would come from the output lost from absent
federal employees.  Emergency Funding  The House voted 231-192 yesterday to make further funding
for the federal government conditional on the suspension of the
central provisions of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
legislation. Should the Senate reject the bill today, the
government may shut down from tomorrow.  In China, the purchasing managers’ index from HSBC Holdings
Plc and Markit Economics rose to 50.2 in September from 50.1 in
August. The final number fell short of the 51.2  median estimate 
in a Bloomberg News survey, the same figure as last week’s
preliminary reading.  A measure of London-listed  commodity producers  slipped 1.5
percent as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  declined 1.1 percent to 1,820 pence
and Rio Tinto Group lost 1.4 percent to 3,023 pence. Glencore
Xstrata Plc dropped 2.1 percent to 336.7 pence.  Salamander declined 9.6 percent to 117.5 pence. The oil
explorer plugged its offshore well after failing to find
significant indications of oil or gas, according to a statement.  Albemarle & Bond Holdings (ABM)  Plc slumped 40 percent to 74.5
pence, its lowest price in a decade. The pawnbroker said it
plans to raise 35 million pounds ($57 million) in a rights issue
to prevent the company from breaking its debt covenants as
profits tumble with the price of gold.  Persimmon Climbs  Persimmon gained 2.4 percent to 1,080 pence after JPMorgan
raised the  stock  to overweight, which is similar to a buy
rating, from neutral. Concerns that the government will withdraw
its Help to Buy house-buying plan are misplaced, analyst Emily Biddulph wrote in a note. The stock still posted its worst
 quarter  in more than three years.  Barratt Developments Plc (BDEV)  climbed 2.2 percent to 308.6
pence, while  Bellway Plc (BWY)  rose 4.2 percent to 1,315 pence as a
report from Hometrack, a property researcher, showed average
house prices jumped in September. Separately, Prime Minister
David Cameron said the second phase of Help to Buy, which
extends the plan beyond new-build properties, will start next
week, three months earlier than planned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  