-- U.S. Treasury Says Money Managers May Pose ‘Herding’ Threat
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-09-30T22:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/u-s-treasury-studies-money-managers-for-threats-to-stability.html
The Treasury Department said money
managers could pose threats to the U.S. financial system when
reaching for higher returns, herding into popular asset classes
or amplifying price movements with leverage.  Companies overseeing a combined $53 trillion in assets, led
by fund giants  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Vanguard Group Inc., can
contribute to asset price increases and magnify volatility
during sudden shocks, a report by the Treasury said today. Gaps
in data, particularly on investments managed for institutions,
limited the study’s ability to identify additional risk.  “A certain combination of fund- and firm-level activities
within a large, complex firm, or engagement by a significant
number of asset managers in riskier activities, could pose,
amplify or transmit a threat to the financial system,” the
Treasury’s Office of Financial Research said in the report.  The study was conducted by the OFR to help the Financial
Stability Oversight Council analyze whether asset managers
should be considered systemically important and subject to
Federal Reserve supervision.  “The council will review the study closely as it considers
potential next steps relating to asset management activities and
firms,” Treasury spokeswoman Suzanne Elio said in an e-mail.  The council is authorized under the Dodd-Frank financial
regulatory law to identify companies that could pose a threat to
stability. The Fed can impose on such firms tighter capital,
leverage and liquidity rules and demand measures including
stress-testing and wind-down plans.  Fed Chairman  The council, or FSOC, is led by Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and includes Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke .  “We continue to believe that designation as systemically
important financial institutions, or ‘SIFIs,’ is not an
appropriate regulatory tool for addressing risks, if any, that
registered funds or their advisers might raise regarding
financial stability,” Mike McNamee, a spokesman for the
 Investment Company Institute  in  Washington , said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The ICI is the trade association representing the mutual
funds industry.  “BlackRock will continue to work with regulators to promote
a more stable and well-functioning financial system and we
support their efforts to increase transparency, protect
investors, and facilitate responsible growth of  capital
markets ,” BlackRock spokesman  Brian Beades  said in an e-mailed
statement.  Systemically Important  FSOC has designated three non-bank financial companies --
American International Group Inc., General Electric Co.’s
finance unit and Prudential Financial Inc. -- as systemically
important.  Exchange-traded funds “may transmit or amplify financial
shocks originating elsewhere” by pooling assets into illiquid
investments, like emerging market stocks or high-yield debt, the
OFR said. ETFs are baskets of securities, typically tracking an
index, that trade on an exchange like stocks.  “Herding into more illiquid investments may have a greater
potential to create adverse market impacts if financial shocks
trigger a reversal of the herding behavior,” the OFR said.  John Woerth , of  Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard,
declined immediate comment because the company hadn’t fully
reviewed the report.  “I don’t think the asset managers will like the study
because some parts of it read like the FSOC’s analysis when they
designated AIG and Prudential,” said Joseph Engelhard, a former
Treasury Department official who is now senior vice president at
Capital Alpha Partners LLC in Washington. Still, the OFR didn’t
indicate it reached a conclusion on whether asset managers
should be designated systemically important, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  