-- North Carolina Sued by U.S. Over Voter-Law Restrictions
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c   a n d   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2013-09-30T23:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/u-s-said-to-plan-lawsuit-over-north-carolina-voting-law.html
The U.S. Justice Department filed a
lawsuit challenging voting restrictions adopted by  North
Carolina , alleging they discriminate against minority voters.  The suit challenges the state’s voter-identification
requirement and limits on early voting. It also asks the court
to require federal pre-approval for voting-law changes in the
state.  The lawsuit is the second voting rights case initiated by
the Justice Department since the Supreme Court on June 25 threw
out a major piece of the landmark 1965  Voting Rights Act ,
rolling back a law that opened the polls to millions of southern
blacks. North Carolina’s Republican-controlled legislature on
July 25 became the first to adopt more restrictive voting laws
after the high court’s decision.  “This law we think will have a disproportionate negative
impact on minority voters,” Attorney General Eric Holder said
during a news conference announcing the suit in  Washington .
“People who are young, people of color, people who are poor.”  The focus on voting laws comes as the U.S. undergoes a
demographic transformation affecting its politics. States such
as North Carolina are moving from being reliably Republican to
competitive for Democrats in presidential elections amid the
changing racial and ethnic makeup of their residents.  Hispanic Population  Hispanics made up 8.4 percent of North Carolina’s
population in 2010, up from 4.7 percent in 2000, the nation’s
sixth-fastest gain, according to the University of North
Carolina at  Charlotte . Democratic President  Barack Obama  won the
state in 2008; four years later he lost it to Republican  Mitt Romney , 50 percent to 48 percent.  North Carolina Governor Pat McCrory, a Republican who
signed the law in July, told reporters in Raleigh that the
Justice Department lawsuit was “an overreach and without
merit.”  “Protecting the integrity of every vote is one of the most
important duties that I have as governor,” McCrory said.  The suit challenges the reduction of early voting to 10
days from 17 days and the elimination of same-day voter
registration during early voting.  It also takes issue with a section of the law that prevents
counties from counting provisional ballots cast in a voter’s
home county if they were cast in the wrong precinct.  The early voting reductions, elimination of same-day
registration and the provisional ballot rules are slated to take
effect in 2014. A fourth requirement, for government-issued
photo identification in order to vote, is due to be implemented
in 2016.  ID Requirement  Before the change in law, there was no state requirement
for registered voters to present an ID in order to cast a
ballot, according to the complaint.  In imposing an ID requirement, the state legislature
narrowed the list of acceptable forms of identification,
eliminating documents issued by the University of North Carolina
and local governments,  Justice Department  lawyers wrote.  The complaint cites criticism of the changes by North
Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper, a Democrat, who “publicly
urged the governor in a letter to veto the legislation, saying
that the bill was ‘‘regressive’’ and would make it harder for
working people to vote during the early voting period,” Justice
Department lawyers said in the suit.  Cooper also criticized the provision prohibiting the
counting of provisional ballots cast outside of the voter’s home
precinct, and described the new photo identification
requirements as “unnecessary, expensive, and burdensome,”
according to the filing.  ‘Disproportionately Impacted’  Justice Department lawyers argued that minorities in North
Carolina are disproportionately impacted by the disputed
provisions in the suit.  “In the November 2008 and November 2012 general elections,
African Americans were about twice as likely as white voters to
use same-day registration,” according to the complaint.  The  Supreme Court ’s 5-4 ruling on The Voting Rights Act
June 25 said Congress couldn’t use a decades-old formula for
requiring all or part of 15 states with histories of
discrimination, including North Carolina, to get federal
approval before changing their election rules.  That day, Holder said the Justice Department would use
“every legal tool that remains available to us” to fight state
laws it viewed as discriminatory.  The Voting Rights Act’s Section 2 allows the Justice
Department to sue over voting rules or procedures that
“purposefully discriminate.” Section 3 creates a procedure
allowing courts to order jurisdictions to get pre-approval for
voting changes.  Texas Lawsuit  In July and August, the Justice Department went to court to
challenge  Texas ’s voter-identification rules and voting maps.
That lawsuit said black and Hispanic voters disproportionately
lack the kind of identification required in the law.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  called the government’s move an
“effort to obstruct the will of the people.”  While Congress could adopt a new formula for requiring pre-approval of voting changes, the chances of gaining agreement
among deeply divided lawmakers are slim.  Democratic leaders in Congress have criticized the Supreme
Court ruling, and one House Republican, Representative James Sensenbrenner of  Wisconsin , has said the decision “severely
weakened” ballot protections. He is urging his colleagues to
rewrite the provision before the 2014 elections.  The case is U.S. v. North Carolina, 13-cv-861, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of North Carolina (Winston-Salem).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Zajac  in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net ;
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 