-- U.S. Retailers’ Holiday Sales May Increase 3.4%, ICSC Estimates
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-09-30T16:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/u-s-retailers-holiday-sales-may-increase-3-4-icsc-estimates.html
U.S. retailers’ sales will climb
3.4 percent this holiday season, slightly more than last year,
even as companies expect more modest spending from consumers
facing higher payroll taxes and economic uncertainty.  Last year, sales in November and December climbed 3 percent
excluding automobile, food and beverage-related sales, Jesse
Tron, a spokesman for the  International Council of Shopping
Centers , a New York-based trade group, said in a phone interview
today. Chain-store sales may increase 2 percent.  “We’re going to see a more subdued spending mood from
consumers, but what counts is that we’re on track to have a
better holiday sales season that last year,”  Michael Niemira ,
chief economist for ICSC, said in a statement today.  While a 2 percentage-point increase in the payroll tax and
uncertainty about a government shutdown has prompted concern
about  consumer spending  this holiday season, the economy has
shown positive signs. Unemployment last month dropped to its
lowest level since December 2008, while sales of homes rose in
August and housing prices have gained 15 percent since last
year.  ICSC also forecast holiday hiring would increase 0.5
percent from the previous year. That compares to a Challenger,
Gray & Christmas Inc. estimate for a 6.9 percent drop in
seasonal hiring, amid shaky  consumer confidence  and greater
efficiency at stores.  Seasonal Hiring  Retailers will hire about 700,000 temporary staff this
year, down from 751,800 last year, Challenger, a Chicago-based
consulting firm, said in a Sept. 23 statement. Last year’s
hiring reached a 12-year high and was up 14 percent from 2011,
the firm said.  Last week, Deloitte LLP, a New York-based consulting firm,
forecast retail sales may increase as much as 4.5 percent this
holiday season, in line with last year’s gain, led by non-store
sales from online and catalog retailers.  Earlier this month, Chicago-based researcher ShopperTrak
said sales in stores may advance 2.4 percent in November and
December, the smallest increase since 2009 as customers visit
fewer stores. Retailers may offer holiday-based promotions as
early as Nov. 1 to take advantage of the shorter shopping
season, ShopperTrak estimated.  This year, there are 25 days between the day after
Thanksgiving -- known as Black Friday -- and Christmas, compared
with 31 days in 2012, and four instead of five weekends.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  