-- U.S. to Avert Default and Downgrade, BlackRock’s Rieder Says
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-09-30T17:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/u-s-to-avert-default-and-downgrade-blackrock-s-rieder-says.html
The U.S. government won’t default
on its debt nor suffer any credit-rating downgrade as occurred
in 2011, according to Rick Rieder, chief investment officer of
fundamental fixed income at BlackRock Inc.  “We are never going to go down the road, no matter what it
takes, of default,” Rieder, who oversees $650 billion at the
world’s biggest asset manager in New York, said on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers” with  Stephanie Ruhle  and  Erik Schatzker . Among politicians in  Washington  “there is clearly a
concern about what the implications would be. My sense is that
politicians know you can’t get to that place.”  Congress is scheduled to meet today to attempt to end a
stalemate that raises the risk of the first government shutdown
in 17 years and threatens talks to increase the debt limit.
Republican lawmakers are seeking to delay and limit President
 Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act.  A brief government closure won’t lead to any significant
change of the Treasury Department’s forecast for when the U.S.
will breach the  debt  limit, a Treasury Department spokeswoman
said yesterday in an e-mail. The Treasury has said measures to
avoid breaching the threshold will be exhausted on Oct. 17.  There is little risk of a downgrade to the U.S. credit
rating as happened in 2011, Rieder said.  In 2011, politicians used a debt-limit increase to force
deeper spending cuts, a political showdown that caused the U.S.
to come within days of default and led to a credit-rating
downgrade by  Standard & Poor’s . Republicans used the potential
of default to force spending cuts. The legislation allowed a
$2.1 trillion increase in the debt ceiling.  Market Implications  Fitch Ratings  said in June that they expect to resolve
their negative U.S. outlook by the end of the year. Moody’s
Investors Service has affirmed its top rating for the U.S.  “There is no doubt it’s a political crisis,” said Rieder,
manager of BlackRock’s flagship Strategic Income Opportunities
Fund. “As a debt investors, you have to be comfortable with,
and we are comfortable with, that you have a set of
prioritization that will take place and at the end of the day
that the government understands that if you breach that actual
default -- and the implication it has around money-market funds,
the implication it has around international investors, that this
is so profound that they would never take us down that path.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  