-- UBS Said to Seek Bids on $800 Million of Distressed Company Debt
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-09-30T14:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/ubs-said-to-seek-bids-on-800-million-of-distressed-company-debt.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , the Swiss bank exiting
certain businesses to bolster capital, is seeking buyers for
about $800 million of distressed corporate debt, according to
two people with knowledge of the matter.  The holdings are managed by a team headed by Jeff Teach and
are part of a pool of mostly fixed-income assets that UBS moved
to a separate unit within the past year with the intention of
selling, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the auction is private. One option for potential bidders may be
to hire Teach, a managing director, and his group along with
buying the assets, the people said.  The bank had approached  hedge funds  in July marketing about
$1 billion of the debt, one of the people said.  Karina Byrne , a
spokeswoman for Zurich-based UBS, declined to comment.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  is reconstructing
 Switzerland ’s biggest bank, retreating from capital-intensive
trading businesses and focusing on its wealth management unit as
regulations from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
require more capital for some activities, cutting profitability.
UBS, bailed out by the Swiss government during the 2008
financial crisis, announced plans last year to cut 10,000 jobs
and scale back its investment bank.  Shedding Risk  UBS moved assets from the investment bank to a so-called
non-core unit as it works to unwind holdings no longer
considered essential and that erode capital-level measures
tracked by regulators.  The 47.6 billion francs ($51.1 billion) of risk-weighted
assets in non-core at the end of June included 5.3 billion
francs of loans and distressed debt, down from 7.3 billion three
months earlier, according to a quarterly report filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. That also included 800
million francs of primarily credit-default swaps and 1.4 billion
francs of structured credit positions as of June 30.  “Significant progress was made in reducing more liquid
cash and loan positions” in the unit, UBS said in the filing.  The bank cut 20 billion francs of risk-weighted assets in
the second quarter, surpassing its target for the end of the
year. That helped bring UBS’s  common equity ratio  under the
latest Basel rules to 11.2 percent from 10.1 percent at the end
of March. Ermotti is seeking to increase the ratio to 13
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  