-- Tudor’s Dalton, Jones Help Buoniconti Raise $400 Million
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/tudor-s-dalton-jones-help-buoniconti-raise-400-million.html
In 1985, Miami Dolphins Hall of
Famer Nick Buoniconti learned on a phone call that his son Marc
had been seriously injured in a college football game.  “I remember the doctor said very, very coldly and
directly, ‘Your son has suffered a dislocated neck’”
Buoniconti, 72, said. “‘He will be a quadriplegic for the rest
of his life.”  Buoniconti subsequently found out that there was scant
support for research into spinal-cord injuries. So he formed the
 Buoniconti Fund to Cure Paralysis  in 1992.  The nonprofit’s annual Great Sports Legends Dinner, which
will be held tonight at the Waldorf-Astoria  New York  hotel, has
raised about $93 million in its history, including almost $18
million last year. The fund has raised more than $400 million
since it began, Buoniconti said.  The event, which also honors sports legends, has become one
of New York’s largest single-night fundraising dinners, partly
because of generous support from Wall Street executives.  Former Allen & Co. Managing Director John A. Schneider
served as chairman for the first dinner. About a decade ago,
Tudor Investment Corp. Chief Executive Officer Mark Dalton
became the chairman and helped attract more financial-industry
supporters.  Paul Tudor Jones , the investment firm’s president and
founder, and other employees also support the gala, as does
James J. Pallotta, chairman and managing director at Raptor
Capital Management LP.  Cure Focus  “What drew me into this was Nick’s and Marc’s passionate
belief that we could find a cure,” Dalton, a Buoniconti Fund
board member and avid sports fan, said by phone. “It wasn’t
about a parent who was just trying to make his child more
comfortable. It was about a parent who wanted to cure the
injury.”  Among the sports legends being honored are: the Pittsburgh
Steelers’  Terry Bradshaw , New York Yankees’ Dave Winfield,
Buffalo Bills’  Jim Kelly , golfer  Nick Faldo , and  Los Angeles
Lakers  forward James Worthy.  NBC Nightly News anchor  Brian Williams  will be the master
of ceremonies and cast members of the “Jersey Boys” Broadway
production will perform.  “Without the athletes, we couldn’t put on a successful
dinner, and without the financial community, we couldn’t have a
successful fundraising effort,” Buoniconti said.  The money raised by the Buoniconti Fund has helped finance
the efforts of more than 250 scientists working on the  Miami
Project to Cure Paralysis  at the University of Miami Miller
School of Medicine.  Schwann Cells  In a Phase 1 clinical trial that started in December,
doctors performed the first-ever transplant of Schwann cells in
a patient with a spinal-cord injury in an effort to restore
movement. (Named after German scientist Theodor Schwann, the
cells help regenerate and repair damaged nerve tissue.)  “We’re not looking for this particular protocol to cure
paralysis. We just want to make sure that there is no harm to
the patient,” Buoniconti said. “The surest way not to fail is
to be determined to succeed. We are going to succeed.”  (The Buoniconti Fund’s Great Sports Legends Dinner is
tonight at  Manhattan ’s Waldorf-Astoria, 301 Park Ave., at 5:30
p.m. Tickets start at $850. Information: +1-305-243-4656 or
 http://www.thebuonicontifund.com/GSLD .)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Craig
Seligman  on books.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 