-- Erdogan Eases Headscarf Ban as Kurds Say Reform Plan Falls Short
-- B y   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2013-09-30T14:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/turkey-lifts-ban-on-islamic-style-head-scarves-in-state-offices.html
Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan set out a reform program that includes a loosening of
the ban on Islamic headscarves and omits key measures that the
country’s Kurdish minority has demanded.  The measures, announced by the premier at a news conference
in Ankara today, will allow women in government offices to wear
headscarves, meeting a longstanding demand by supporters of
Erdogan’s Islamist-rooted party. The country’s military, shorn
of much of its political influence under Erdogan’s 11-year rule,
had helped block previous efforts to ease the ban, on the
grounds it would undermine  Turkey ’s secular principles.  Erdogan also promised to allow private education in
Kurdish, remove the daily oath of allegiance to the Turkish
nation that schoolchildren swear, and review an election system
that has made it hard for Kurdish parties to enter parliament.
His government is in talks with the Kurdistan Workers’ Party or
PKK to end a three-decade conflict, and in recent weeks the
militant group has threatened to break off the process if
reforms aren’t announced.  Erdogan’s proposals “fell short of meeting the Kurdish
nationalist movement’s demands on a number of fronts, including
devolving meaningful powers to local authorities” and allowing
Kurdish into state schools, said Naz Masraff, an analyst at
political-risk assessor Eurasia Group in  London . Without further
reforms, “which seems unlikely ahead of the elections, the PKK
will find it difficult to justify the ongoing cease-fire without
suffering damage to its credibility and prestige.”  Election Time  Stocks (XU100)  and  bonds  extended losses after Erdogan’s
announcement. The benchmark  equity index  dropped 0.5 percent,
and yields on two-year  lira bonds  rose 11 basis points to 8.55
percent.  Turkey will hold local and presidential elections next
year, the first test of Erdogan’s popularity since protests
against his government swept the country in June, followed by a
parliamentary vote in 2015.  Erdogan said he’d open a debate on the electoral system, in
which parties must currently get 10 percent of the national vote
to win seats in parliament. Pro-Kurdish parties in the largely
Kurdish southeast usually can’t cross that threshold. The
premier said the limit could be cut to 5 percent, or eliminated
altogether.  ‘Fell Short’  Meeting Kurdish demands is risky for Erdogan because they
are unpopular in much of the country, where Kurds are viewed as
instigators of a war that left tens of thousands dead.  While Gultan Kisanak, co-leader of pro-Kurdish Peace and
Democracy Party, said today that the package “fell short of
their expectations,” the measures came under attack from the
opposite direction too. Behic Celik, a lawmaker from the
opposition Nationalist Action Party, said in a phone interview
that freedom to speak Kurdish in private schools and the removal
of the oath were threats to national unity.  The main opposition Republic People’s Party also attacked
the proposals. Sezgin Tanrikulu, a Kurdish lawmaker from the
group, said they fail to amend anti-terror laws and other
legislation used to jail Kurdish politicians. He said demands of
religious minorities also weren’t addressed.  Turkey’s Alevis, a group affiliated to Shiite Islam that
makes up the largest religious minority, have been pressing for
recognition and state support for their places of worship. There
were no steps in that direction in Erdogan’s announcement,
though he said the government would rename a university after
the 13th-century mystic philosopher Haci Bektas Veli, whose
teachings inspired Alevis.  ‘Complete Disappointment’  Ali Balkiz, former head of an Alevi umbrella group, said by
phone today that the package announced by Erdogan was a
“complete disappointment” for Alevis.  Peter Stano, spokesman for EU Enlargement Commissioner
Stefan Fule, said the measures “hold out the prospect for
progress on many important issues.” The EU, which has put
Turkey’s entry application on hold in recent years, is due to
publish a report on the country’s progress toward meeting
membership criteria on Oct. 16.  Removing the headscarf ban would fulfill a pledge that pre-dates the election of Erdogan’s Justice and Development Party in
2002. The group’s Islamist predecessors were regularly shut down
for advocating it, and Erdogan’s party narrowly escaped a
similar fate in 2008. The curb will remain in force in the army,
police and judiciary, Erdogan said today.  In further gestures to the Kurdish minority, which makes up
as much as one-fifth of the population, Erdogan said villages
that were renamed in Turkish can take their old names back, and
political parties can use Kurdish on the campaign trail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  