-- USC’s Lane Kiffin Fired as Coach After Trojans Allow 62 Points
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/usc-s-lane-kiffin-fired-as-coach-after-trojans-allow-62-points.html
Lane Kiffin  lobbied to keep his job
after the  University of Southern California ’s football team was
routed 62-41 at  Arizona  State two days ago. Athletic Director
Pat Haden decided it was time for a coaching change.  Kiffin, 38, was fired after returning to  Los Angeles , where
he met with Haden early yesterday morning for about 45 minutes
in a private room in the airport. Kiffin leaves USC with a 28-15
record, including a 4-7 mark in the past 11 games.  “Lane was clearly disappointed and battled me,” Haden
said at a news conference. “He tried to keep his job and I
respect him for that. At the end of the day I think it was the
right decision.”  The Trojans are 3-2 this year and have lost both their
opening games in  Pac-12 conference  play for the first time since
2001. USC also lost to Washington State 10-7 on Sept. 7 after
opening the season with a 30-13 win in  Hawaii .  “This has been brewing for a while but I have been
thinking about it since the Hawaii game,” Haden said. “We
didn’t feel consistency there. We realize that our history has
been great and we need it to be great again.”  Last year, USC started the college football season as the
No. 1 team in the country and ended it unranked after losing
five of its final six games to finish 7-6.  Assistant head coach Ed Orgeron will replace Kiffin on an
interim basis, Haden said. USC has a bye this week before its
next game, at home against Arizona on Oct. 10, giving the team
added time to make the transition.  Right Time  “It’s never the perfect time to do these things but I
thought it was the right time,” Haden said, adding that the
coaching search was for the future. “We’re going to try to find
the best coach we can possibly find for USC.”  Four months after Kiffin’s arrival at USC in January 2010,
the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  stripped the
Trojans of 30 football scholarships over three seasons and
barred them from the postseason for two years following a four-year investigation. A year later, the school lost its appeal
against the sanctions, which also included the loss of its 2004
national championship.  Kiffin at age 31 became the youngest coach in the  National
Football League ’s modern era when he joined the  Oakland Raiders 
before the 2007 season. He was fired Sept. 30, 2008, with a 5-15
record and joined the University of Tennessee two months later.  Kiffin lasted one season with the Volunteers before moving
to USC as the successor to  Pete Carroll , who resigned after nine
seasons as Trojans coach to join the  Seattle Seahawks . Kiffin
was offensive coordinator at USC from 2001-06 under Carroll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  