-- Vatican Bank Discloses Annual Earnings Report for First Time
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-10-01T08:31:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/vatican-bank-to-publish-2012-annual-report-in-transparency-drive.html
The Vatican bank disclosed its annual
report for the first time in the institute’s history as it seeks
to improve financial transparency after several corruption
scandals.  The bank, formally called the Institute for Works of
Religion, or IOR, expects 2013 to be marked by extraordinary
expenses “for the ongoing reform and remediation process”and
the effects of rising interest rates, according to a statement.
The bank earlier this year reported that 2012 profit more than
quadrupled to 86.6 million euros ($117 million).  A review of all customer relationships and procedures to
prevent money-laundering is under way, the bank said in the
statement posted on its  website.  IOR will shut down about 900
accounts, including all of those held by foreign embassies,
 Corriere della Sera  reported today without saying how it got the
information. The decision was taken after viewing large cash
transactions by diplomatic missions of  Iran , Iraq and  Indonesia ,
according to the newspaper.  “The remediation efforts and the introduction of
appropriate regulation in the institute apply independently of
the nature of the clients,” Max Hohenberg, a spokesman for the
IOR, said by phone. “It doesn’t matter whether they are
employees, cardinals or ambassadors.”  Independent Supervision  Today’s annual report publication is part of Vatican bank
President Ernst von Freyberg’s effort to help transform a 71-year-old institution rocked by scandal into a transparent
financial firm. In June, Pope Francis named a special commission
to help oversee the operations of the bank after Moneyval, the
Council of  Europe ’s monitoring body for  money laundering  and
terrorism financing, called for independent supervision of the
bank.  Von Freyberg assumed responsibility for 18,900 clients when
he accepted the appointment from Francis’s predecessor,  Pope Benedict XVI , in February. His team is reviewing the source of
all deposits, from the savings of individual nuns and priests to
the operating resources of Catholic congregations with worldwide
reach.  The bank oversees about 7.1 billion euros in assets,
largely in bonds and cash. IOR clients with outposts from  Chile 
to Tanzania manage income, transfers and expenditures out of the
bank located in the world’s smallest state, situated in the
heart of  Rome . The bank doesn’t use deposits for lending and had
less than 1 billion euros in equities at the end of last year.  Holy See  The bank’s profit is at the disposal of the  Holy See . Last
year it gave the Pope a contribution of 50 million euros. The
IOR had 114 employees at the end of 2012 and is housed in a
building adjacent to the papal offices just off St. Peter’s
Square.  The Vatican is trying to overcome three decades of scandals
ranging from the Banco Ambrosiano failure in the 1980s to the
freezing of 23 million euros by Italian prosecutors in 2010 in a
money-laundering probe.  While admitting no wrongdoing, the Vatican paid $240
million to Banco Ambrosiano account holders in 1984 after the
IOR was implicated in the lender’s fraudulent bankruptcy.
Ambrosiano’s former chairman Roberto Calvi, dubbed “God’s
banker,” was found hanged under  London ’s Blackfriars Bridge in
June of 1982 amid the scandal.  The Vatican signed an agreement with Italian authorities
July 26 to exchange information about the bank in order to
prevent money laundering and terrorism financing. Similar
accords have also been signed with other countries, including
the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net 
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net  