-- Venezuela Expels 3 U.S. Diplomats for Alleged Meddling
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2013-10-01T00:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/venezuela-s-maduro-expels-u-s-diplomats-for-alleged-meddling.html
Venezuelan President  Nicolas Maduro 
ordered Foreign Minister Elias Jaua to expel three U.S.
diplomats for alleged meddling in his country’s affairs after
canceling a trip to the  United Nations  because of what he called
threats to his safety.  Maduro accused U.S. Embassy personnel of meeting members of
Venezuela’s “right wing” to plan sabotage of the  power grid .
Maduro said he has evidence of intervention by the U.S. The
diplomats, including Kelly Keiderling, the charge d’affaires at
the embassy in Caracas, have 48 hours to depart Venezuela,
Maduro said.  “I don’t care what actions  Barack Obama ’s government may
take,” Maduro said. “We’re not going to allow an imperial
government to bring money and see how they shut down the basic
industries, how they turn off electricity to black out all
 Venezuela . What is that?”  Maduro canceled a trip to  New York  last week to take part
in the UN General Assembly over alleged plots on his life.  “We completely reject the Venezuelan government’s
allegations of U.S. government involvement in any type of
conspiracy to destabilize the Venezuela government,” the U.S.
Embassy in Caracas said in an e-mailed statement, adding that it
rejected the specific claims against the expelled diplomats.  The embassy said it has not yet received official
notification of the expulsions.  Strained Relations  “We have sufficient evidence collected of the hostile,
illegal and interventionist attitude of the officials,” Maduro
said. “Out of Venezuela. Yankee, go home! Enough with the
abuse.”  Venezuela in June expelled Timothy Tracy, a U.S. filmmaker
who had been held almost two months on accusations of financing
opposition groups to stir up violence following a contested
April 14 presidential election.  Venezuela expelled two U.S. officials accused of plotting
against former President  Hugo Chavez ’s government the same day
it announced the cancer-stricken leader’s death March 5.  The U.S. followed by expelling two Venezuelan diplomats the
week after.  Maduro, who returned home Sept. 25 from a state visit to
 China , said he learned of threats against him from “various
sources” during a stopover in Vancouver on his way to New York
and decided instead to head back to Caracas.  Maduro would have addressed the annual General Assembly for
the first time since winning April’s emergency election
following Chavez’s death.  Venezuela and the U.S. haven’t had ambassadors since 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  