-- Vinamilk Sees Revenue Doubling in Overseas Expansion Push
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-01T14:55:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/vinamilk-sees-revenue-doubling-in-overseas-expansion-push.html
Vietnam  Dairy Products Joint-Stock
Co., the nation’s largest dairy producer, is building a milk
factory in Cambodia as it plans a global expansion to more than
double annual revenue to $3 billion by 2017.  The company known as Vinamilk is opening a plant in the
capital of Phnom Penh and will expand into other overseas
markets over the next five years, Chairwoman and General
Director Mai Kieu Lien said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday.  “We will focus on expanding the domestic market as well as
speeding up exporting to other markets,” Lien said. Vinamilk
may export products to the U.S. after receiving permission from
the  Food and Drug Administration , she said.  Vinamilk’s second factory outside Vietnam after  New Zealand 
will allow the Ho Chi Minh City-based company to tap surging
demand for milk, yogurt and ice cream from  Southeast Asia ’s
growing middle class. The region’s dairy industry is set to
outpace the global market growth, according to Michael Harvey, a
Melbourne-based analyst at Rabobank International.  “The Southeast Asia dairy markets are already very
competitive,” Harvey said. “Most have a strong presence from
local companies. There is also a strong presence from
international companies from  Europe ,  Australia  and New
Zealand.”  International competitors to Vinamilk include  Nestle SA (NESN) ,
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. and Danone SA.  Vinamilk, Vietnam’s second-biggest listed company by market
value, has rallied 60 percent this year in  Ho Chi Minh City ,
outpacing the 19 percent gain in the benchmark  VN Index. (VNINDEX)  The
stock fell 1.4 percent today.  Top 50  “Everyone is aware of the growth potential and naturally
they want a piece of the action,” John Droppert, an analyst at
 Dairy Australia , said in an e-mail.  Reaching the revenue target in 2017 would make Vinamilk one
of the top 50 milk producers in the world, according to Lien.
The company’s revenue was 26.6 trillion dong ($1.26 billion)
last year, more than double the 10.6 trillion dong achieved in
2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Construction of the Cambodian factory is set to begin in
the second quarter of next year and the production start is
scheduled for July 2015, the company said.  Vinamilk will hold a 51 percent stake in the plant through
a joint venture with a Cambodian partner, according to Lien. The
2.7-hectare factory would produce condensed milk, yoghurt and
milk sterilized at ultra-high temperatures. Vinamilk is awaiting
approval from Cambodian authorities to start construction.  More Fridges  Vinamilk will have the first-mover advantage in  Cambodia  as
that market expands, said Droppert. In the next five years,
Vinamilk, which already exports products to Cambodia and the
 Middle East , wants to expand to markets overseas to boost annual
sales growth 15 percent to 20 percent, said Lien.  The company recorded “impressive” sales growth in the
past three years, according to Giang Trung Kien, Hanoi-based
head of research at FPT Securities Co.  Vinamilk opened a 2.4 trillion dong milk factory in
Vietnam’s southern province of Binh Duong last month. It expects
to meet its revenue target of 32.5 trillion dong and pretax
profit of 7.8 trillion dong this year, according to the e-mailed
response.  The increase in the number of homes with refrigerators, the
rise of Western-style supermarkets stocked with dairy goods and
an appetite for Western food is creating new opportunities for
dairy companies in Southeast Asia, said Stephen Scott, head of
research at Ord Minnett Group Ltd. in Sydney.  “If moms return to work earlier, which tends to happen as
economies develop, children are looked after by grandparents,”
Scott said. “They tend to use more  infant formula .”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
John Boudreau in Hanoi at 
 jboudreau3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  