-- Vodacom Enters Exclusive Discussions to Buy Tata’s Neotel
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-09-30T15:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/vodacom-enters-exclusive-discussions-to-buy-tata-s-neotel.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) ,  South Africa ’s
largest wireless operator, said it started exclusive talks to
buy Internet provider Neotel, a unit of  Tata Communications Ltd. (TCOM)   “Vodacom intends to put significant investment into the
combined entity to provide high-speed fixed connectivity to many
more businesses and consumers,” Chief Executive Officer Shameel
Joosub said in an e-mailed statement today. “We would also aim
to develop entirely new services such as fiber to the home and
business.”  Vodacom, which is 65 percent owned by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ,
is increasingly focused on small- to medium-sized business
customers and expanding data services to offset declining
revenue from its domestic voice division. Neotel said in May
that its corporate customer base rose 29 percent for the full
year, driven by growth in managed and network services.  Mobile operators are turning to fixed-line assets that
allow them to sell a wider range of services and carry data
traffic more efficiently. This year Vodacom’s parent, Newbury,
England-based Vodafone, bid 7.7 billion euros ($10.4 billion)
for  Kabel Deutschland , a German fixed-line telephony, cable TV
and Internet-access service provider.  The Neotel deal could be worth more than 5 billion rand
($497 million), a person familiar with the discussions told
 Bloomberg News  last week, asking not to be named because the
negotiations are private.  Mobile Data Demand  Neotel’s spectrum is also a consideration for Vodacom as it
could help the company keep up with demand for mobile data in
South Africa, Joosub said in the statement.  Tata bought an additional 2.5 percent in Neotel, based in
Johannesburg, for 922.4 million rupees ($14.7 million) in the
previous year, according to its 2012-2013 annual report. That
would value the company at about $589 million.  Neotel was founded in 2006 after winning a license to
compete with former fixed-line monopoly Telkom, building a
second phone network and offering voice and Internet services.
Tata bought a majority stake in Neotel in 2008, according to a
statement at the time.  Vodacom fell 1.2 percent to 124.45 rand by the close of
trading in Johannesburg, giving it a market value of 185.2
billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  