-- Vodafone Italy Names Ariston’s Bisio CEO to Replace Bertoluzzo
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-10-01T10:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/vodafone-italy-said-set-to-name-bisio-ceo-to-replace-bertoluzzo.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  named Aldo Bisio,
a former McKinsey & Co. partner, to run its struggling Italian
business as the company strives to reverse a three-year slide in
revenue there.  Bisio will replace Paolo Bertoluzzo -- now also in charge
of Vodafone’s worldwide commercial operations -- on Jan. 1, the
company said today in a statement. Bisio most recently served as
chief executive officer of Ariston Thermo SpA.  The 53-year-old will be in charge of halting a decline in
sales in one of the countries worst hit by the debt crisis.
Vodafone  reported  a 7.7 billion-pound ($12.5 billion) impairment
on its businesses in Italy and  Spain  in the year ended in March.
Service revenue for the Italian unit declined 13 percent during
the year as sales were battered by price wars and a weak
economy.  Bertoluzzo, who began today in his new role, will continue
directing Italian operations until Bisio takes office, according
to the statement.  Bloomberg News  reported the decision yesterday.  Vodafone Italy had a 31.6 percent  share  of the country’s
wireless market by customers, trailing the 34.4 percent at
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , according to first-quarter data compiled by
communications regulator Agcom. Telecom Italia is also bracing
for leadership changes, with CEO Franco Bernabe planning to tell
his board this week he’s ready to step down after losing the
backing of its biggest investor.  McKinsey, RCS  Bertoluzzo moved on as part of Vodafone’s reorganization of
its European operations. The Newbury, England-based company is
merging its northern and southern Europe businesses into a
single unit lead by Philipp Humm as well as managers for the
individual countries.  Bisio’s background is similar to Vodafone CEO Vittorio Colao’s. Both are former McKinsey partners. Bisio headed the
Italian newspaper operations at  RCS MediaGroup SpA (RCS)  from 2005 to
2006, when Colao was RCS’s CEO. Bisio was named CEO of Ariston
Thermo, a water-heater manufacturer, in 2011.  Vodafone shares rose 0.2 percent to 216.50 pence at 11:20
a.m. in  London .  Last month, Vodafone had to fill the CEO post at its U.K.
unit after Guy Laurence said he would take the top job at
Canada’s  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B)  on Dec. 2. Jeroen Hoencamp,
head of the British enterprise business and former CEO of
Vodafone Ireland, will replace him.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  