-- Volatility Falls to Seven-Year Low as S&P 500 Rallies
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-09-30T12:23:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/volatility-falls-to-seven-year-low-as-s-p-500-rallies.html
For all the concern that the
 Federal Reserve  may reduce economic stimulus and the stalemate
over the U.S. budget could lead to a government shutdown, stock
investors are the  calmest  in more than seven years.  The average daily  change  for the  Standard & Poor’s  500
Index narrowed to 0.45 percent in the third quarter, the
smallest since the end of 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index slid 8.3
percent since June 28, a retreat that  coincided  with a 5.3
percent advance in the  S&P 500  and a 39 percent windfall for
investors who used an  exchange-traded note  that bets against
equity swings.  U.S. stock fluctuations are narrowing as investors become
more confident that the four-year  bull market  is sustainable,
corporate profits top all-time highs and growth in  China  and
 Europe  show signs of strengthening. The Fed this month refrained
from slowing its monthly bond buying, saying it needs more
evidence of an improvement in the American labor market.  “Toward the end of August everyone was geared up for the
first tapering from the Fed and a market sell-off, but it didn’t
happen,” Justin Golden, a partner at Lake Hill Capital
Management LLC, said via phone on Sept. 27. The New York-based
hedge fund trades options on equity indexes and commodities.
“People think the markets are pretty smooth sailing for the
next few months.”  Quarterly Gain  U.S. stocks have rallied this year, putting the S&P 500 on
track for a third straight quarterly advance. Strategists from
Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc. and Bank of Montreal raised their
year-end forecast for the U.S. equity benchmark in September on
speculation that the Fed will trim bond purchases at a slower
pace than previously anticipated.  The VIX, a measure of the cost to protect against declines
in the S&P 500, is on pace for its  second consecutive annual
decline  after tumbling 14 percent in 2013. It closed at 15.46 on
Sept. 27, 24 percent below its average since 1990.  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans ,
who has been among the central bank’s most vocal proponents of
record stimulus, said last week more signs of strength in the
economy are needed to reduce asset purchases. The Fed has left
its main  interest rate  near zero since December 2008 and has
expanded its balance sheet to a record $3.66 trillion through
three rounds of stimulus to induce economic growth.  Price Swings  Price swings in the S&P 500 reached their highest ever in
the fourth quarter of 2008, when daily moves averaged 3.31
percent during the height of the financial crisis, according to
data since 1929 compiled by Bloomberg. Volatility was lowest in
40 years at the beginning of 1995, when the S&P 500 posted an
annual gain of 34 percent, one of the five best years on record.  The VVIX Index, a measure of VIX swings, slipped 13 percent
to 74.93 in the quarter through Sept. 27, the  biggest  retreat
since 2010. The gauge in August reached its lowest level in
almost four years, a sign that investors are less concerned
about future stocks swings.  “The price of VIX options is just abnormally low compared
to earlier this year and where we were in 2012,” Lake Hill’s
Golden said. “Everyone was setting up for an event, it never
happened, people were surprised and now you see the lack of fear
by virtue of these prices on VIX options.”  Inverse VIX  Investors who wagered that volatility would decline
profited in the third quarter. The VelocityShares Daily  Inverse
VIX (XIV)  Short-Term ETN jumped $7.82 to $27.80 since June 28 for the
ninth-highest return among exchange-traded funds in America
through Sept. 26.  The security, which rises when the VIX falls, reached a
record $29.10 on Sept. 19. While the fund has a  market value  of
about $308 million, it is the 17th-most active exchange-traded
fund in the U.S., according to data on more than 1,500 funds
compiled by Bloomberg.  The ProShares Short VIX Short-Term Futures, which also
earns the inverse return of short-term futures on the U.S.
volatility gauge, rallied 39 percent in the quarter through
Sept. 27.  Weakness in economic growth and political wrangling over
the country’s fiscal policy may reignite volatility, according
to  Matthew McCormick  of Bahl & Gaynor Inc. The  U.S. Senate  voted
last week to finance the government through Nov. 15 after
removing language to choke off funding for the health care law,
putting pressure on the House to avoid a federal shutdown set to
start Oct. 1.  Tired Trade  “The low volatility trade is tired and there are a lot of
potential catalysts out there, including what’s going on in
 Washington ,” McCormick, a Cincinnati-based  fund manager  at Bahl
& Gaynor where he helps oversee in $9.6 billion of assets, said
by phone on Sept. 24. “The Fed’s non-action has caused
investors to reevaluate their view on the economy, which is not
doing as well as people thought.”  U.S. stocks fell last week amid concern a political impasse
in Washington will hurt the economy. Hardening positions on the
 federal budget  and borrowing limit, and political setbacks by
both President  Barack Obama  and Republican congressional leaders
as they go into the fight, are raising the odds of a government
shutdown, debt default or near-miss that could roil equities
markets.  Forty percent of global investors surveyed in a Sept. 10
Bloomberg poll said they would pull back on U.S. markets in the
event of a government shutdown. The VIX advanced 10 percent on
Sept. 27. Its counterpart in Europe, the VStoxx Index, gained 13
percent to 19.08 at 8:23 a.m. in  New York  today.  Uncertainty, Boredom  A reduction in  stock trading  helped subdue volatility in
the third quarter, according to Michael Schmanske of New York-based Glenshaw Capital Management LLC. Volume for U.S. exchange-traded equities  averaged  5.7 billion shares a day this quarter,
the lowest since Bloomberg data begins in 2008. That represents
a 13 percent drop from the second quarter and compares with the
7.77 billion quarterly average since the bull market began in
2009.  “It seemed market participants were plagued by
uncertainty, boredom and general lack of interest in equities,”
Schmanske, founder and chief executive officer of Glenshaw
Capital Management, said in an interview on Sept. 26. “This
summer, investors mostly stayed on the sidelines.”  The cost of bearish S&P 500 options has dropped since the
June high, relative to bullish contracts. Puts protecting
against a 10 percent decline in the index cost 8.48 points more
than calls betting on a 10 percent rally, according to  three-month data  compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from a one-year
high of 10.93 on June 20 for the price relationship known as
skew, the data show.  ‘Rolled On’  Traders own more options betting on lower volatility levels
than higher. Among the 10  most-owned  contracts on the iPath S&P
500 VIX Short-Term Futures ETN, eight were wagering on reduced
swings, data compiled by Bloomberg show. January $10 puts, with
an exercise price 30 percent below the last close, and November
$13 puts had the largest open interest.  “There were a lot of things on the calendar that could
have made the quarter volatile, but as the months rolled on and
the news rolled in, the storms clouds on the horizon started to
fade,” Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee $221.2 billion as
chief portfolio strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in
 Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , said by phone on Sept. 26. “We can
see movements on the margins in the VIX, but I really don’t see
a lot that’s going to push it up into the 20s.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  