-- Volcker Rule Costs Tallied as U.S. Regulators Press Deadline
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-09-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/volcker-rule-costs-tallied-as-u-s-regulators-press-deadline.html
The fate of the Dodd-Frank Act’s
ban on banks trading for their own accounts -- one of the final
pieces of the U.S. effort to prevent a repeat of the 2008
financial crisis -- may rest with a cluster of economists at the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The agency’s 50 economists are attempting to calculate the
costs and benefits of the so-called Volcker rule, a linchpin of
the financial overhaul that would curb the kind of high-stakes
proprietary trading that could lead to crippling losses or
bailouts at banks like  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  or  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Court challenges that overturned other Dodd-Frank
regulations because of faulty cost-benefit analysis have
increased pressure on the SEC economists, led by Craig M. Lewis,
a veteran finance professor on leave from  Vanderbilt University .
Their work may determine whether the rule could withstand a
similar lawsuit -- an option banks and trade groups say is under
consideration.  The economists are racing the clock: Regulators are under
pressure from President  Barack Obama  and Treasury Secretary
Jacob J. Lew to finish the rule in the next three months. At a
recent meeting, Lew gave the heads of the five agencies drafting
the rule a series of deadlines designed to make sure the
government meets the year-end target, according to a person
briefed on the meeting who asked not to be identified because it
wasn’t public.  “Hell or high water, we’re getting it done,” Comptroller
of the Currency  Thomas Curry  said in an interview.  The agencies -- the  Federal Reserve , Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and SEC -- have reached
agreement on key issues, including the definitions of activities
like market-making and portfolio hedging, and are now working on
the final text, according to three people familiar with the
process who declined to provide details.  Avoiding Bailouts  The rule, named for former Federal Reserve chairman  Paul Volcker , is one of the remaining pieces of the overhaul of U.S.
financial regulation enshrined in Dodd-Frank, which was signed
into law by Obama in 2010. It is aimed at preventing banks that
hold federally insured customer deposits from engaging in the
kind of speculative trading -- with their own capital -- that
before Dodd-Frank would have led to a bank failure and
government bailout.  Prior to the financial crisis, proprietary trading was a
money-maker for banks, and during the crisis, it contributed to
losses. The six largest banks’ standalone proprietary-trading
desks reported losses in five quarters in 2007 and 2008, losing
a combined $15.8 billion, according to a 2011  report  from the
Government Accountability Office.  Presidential Urgency  Profits are at stake in the final wording of the rule.
Standard and Poor’s has estimated that Volcker could sap
combined profits at the eight largest U.S. banks by between $2
billion and $10 billion a year, depending on details of the
final provisions.  Obama called the regulators to the White House last month
to “share his sense of urgency” that Dodd-Frank rules
including Volcker be completed soon, according to deputy White
House press secretary  Josh Earnest .  The message was amplified by Lew on Sept. 10 when he
convened a private meeting at the Treasury Department of the
agency heads during which he laid out a timetable designed to
ensure completion by the end of the year, according to the
person briefed on the meeting.  ‘Cracking Heads’  “Treasury wants this done” and is “cracking heads” to
get there, said Karen Shaw Petrou, managing partner of
Washington-based Federal Financial Analytics.  Wall Street banks face a July 21, 2014, deadline for
complying with Volcker, which must be formally adopted by all
five agencies before it takes effect. If regulators miss their
2013 goal, banks will have three weeks to file for individual
extensions, a process expected to cause more delays.  In the two years since the first draft was released, the
text may triple in size reach 1,000 pages, according to one 
person familiar with the draft. The initial proposal posed
hundreds of questions to solicit input from affected banks, and
more than 18,000 letters flooded in. Reviewing all those
comments also slowed the rule-writing.  Emerging Risks  The economics unit -- officially known as the Division of
Economic and Risk Analysis -- was established by former SEC
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  in 2009 to help commissioners gauge the
impact of new rules as well as spot the kind of emerging risks
exposed in the credit crisis the year before. The office has
doubled its staff as it’s taken on the task of analyzing dozens
of proposed rules under Dodd-Frank. Lewis, an expert in equity
analyst behavior and corporate finance policy, took over the
helm in 2010.  Along with tallying a rule’s costs, the agency’s official
 guidance  directs the economists to quantify its benefits
including crisis-related goals such as reducing “excessive
risk-taking or actions that are otherwise characterized by moral
hazard.”  Part of the difficulty the agency faces, Petrou said, is
pinning numbers on nebulous concepts.  “The key to effective cost-benefit analysis is assessing
real costs -- i.e., to efficiency, profitability, liquidity --
not to focus on the easy ones like how many hours it will take
to file all the requisite forms,” she said in an e-mail. “The
benefits are similarly qualitative -- the reduced risk of
systemic failure, market benefits of new competition, etc.
That’s what makes these cost-benefit analyses so tricky -- there
are few hard numbers anywhere and regulators have yet to develop
a robust methodology for more qualitative cost-benefit
assessments that will stand up in court.”  Flawed Analyses  Banks and financial firms that opposed elements of Dodd-Frank have successfully argued in court that some of the
agency’s previous cost-benefit analyses were flawed. The first
attack overturned the so-called proxy access provision in 2011,
and another forced the SEC to announce earlier this month that
it would re-write a Dodd-Frank disclosure rule.  The financial industry has signaled that the cost-benefit
analysis accompanying the Volcker rule will get similar sharp
scrutiny. Trade groups including the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association, the Clearing House, the Financial
Services Roundtable and the  American Bankers Association  sent a
letter to regulators in February 2012 urging them to conduct a
“rigorous” cost-benefit analysis of Volcker. The U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, one of the litigants in the proxy-access case,
wrote that errors “may lead to the promulgation of a flawed
final rule that has severe, unintended consequences for capital
formation.”  “It is incumbent on the regulators to get the final rule
buttoned down correctly and implemented in a smart way to avoid
litigation,” said Tom Quaadman, vice president of the Chamber’s
Center for Capital Markets Competitiveness.  Legal Challenge  H. Rodgin Cohen, a lawyer at Sullivan & Cromwell LLP who
represents large banks, said that whatever its final provisions,
regulators should expect the Volcker rule to draw a legal
challenge.  “Clearly there have been several cases recently where the
regulatory agencies have been successfully sued,” Cohen said in
an interview. “I do not put that totally beyond the realm
here.”  At least one cost-benefit analysis was decided in favor of
the regulator. In 2012, the CFTC, the main U.S. derivatives
regulator, prevailed in a lawsuit over a Dodd-Frank rule, with
the court finding its analysis sufficient.  While Volcker’s crosshairs are fixed on the very largest
U.S. banks, it could affect operations at nearly all 7,000 U.S.
depository banks. Even before the rule is done, a few of them,
including New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , ranked fifth and sixth respectively by assets, have
shut down some proprietary trading operations and withdrawn
investments that are likely to be outlawed under the rule.  ‘Low-Hanging Fruit’  “The low-hanging fruit would be those firms that had units
operating within them that were clearly proprietary-trading
units,” said Julie Williams, the former top lawyer at OCC who
now works for  Washington  consulting firm Promontory Financial
Group LLC. “What you’ve seen over the course of the last
several years is firms have shut those down or sold them.”  In addition to the ban on proprietary trading, the rule
will ban banks from holding more than a 3 percent stake in hedge
funds and private-equity funds, which are perceived as too high
risk for depository banks. Some banks have already begun dumping
investments “where there wouldn’t be a whole lot of debate of
whether the fund was a hedge fund or private-equity fund,”
Williams said.  Private-Equity Sales  For example, this month New York-based Citigroup, the
third-largest U.S. lender, announced it will sell its $6 billion
emerging-markets private-equity unit. In June, New York-based
JPMorgan Chase, the largest  U.S. bank  by assets, announced plans
to break off its private-equity unit One Equity. JPMorgan
reported about $7.7 billion in total private-equity holdings in
recent filings.  “Where the law is clear, which in key areas it is, they’ve
begun to implement that,” Petrou said.  In Washington, lawmakers have pushed regulators to toughen
parts of the original draft, particularly an exemption for
hedging. The push gained momentum after JPMorgan acknowledged
that it lost $6.2 billion from London-based derivatives trades
last year. The bank argued that those trades were permitted
under an exemption in Volcker for “portfolio hedges” -- trades
designed to offset broad risks to the bank’s portfolio. The
lawmakers who drafted the provision said they intended such
trades to be banned.  ‘Global Hedges’  “We cannot allow the argument of the banks that they can
hedge their entire inventory somehow where we get global
hedges,” Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, told
reporters at a news conference earlier this year. “If they are
going to claim that trades are a hedge, they’ve got to be able
to identify what is being hedged against, what are the assets
being hedged and what is the proof that it is a hedge.”  Curry, 56, said the final rule will clarify “what is
appropriately risk-mitigating hedging” and what constitutes
proprietary trading. His agency and others fined JPMorgan $920
million earlier this month for bad internal controls and
allegedly misleading regulators in the London Whale losses.  Making Markets  Another contested exemption from the Volcker ban is for
trades considered “market-making” -- when banks take the other
side of transactions for clients who want to buy and sell
securities. Industry groups have argued it is difficult in
practice for banks to draw a distinction between market-making
and trading on their own account.  “It sets up a subjective trade-by-trade analysis spread
out over five agencies that is unworkable,” Quaadman said.  Levin and Oregon Democrat Jeff Merkley, who co-authored the
Senate provision that became the Volcker rule, have pushed
regulators to remove the hedging and market-making exemptions,
calling them “ill-advised loopholes.” Merkley has criticized
the long delay on a rule that was, according to Dodd-Frank’s
original deadline, supposed to be completed in 2011.  “It’s taking so long in part because multiple regulators
have to agree, but it’s completely unacceptable,” Merkley said
in an interview. “I encourage the regulators to re-immerse
themselves and get this work done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net  