-- Warner Bros. Gets $450 Million Film Funding From Dune
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-10-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/warner-bros-gets-450-million-film-funding-from-dune.html
Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros.
studio will receive $450 million in funding from RatPac-Dune
Entertainment LLC to finance as many as 75 films, including big
summer franchises.  The multiyear agreement joins RatPac, the production
partnership between filmmaker Brett Ratner and Australian casino
executive James Packer, with Dune Capital Management LP, the
investment firm founded by OneWest Bank Group LLC Chairman
Steven Mnuchin. The amount, $450 million over four years, could
rise to as much as $1 billion including borrowed money and
reinvested profits, Mnuchin said in an interview yesterday.  “I’m a big, long-term believer in the value of content,”
Mnuchin said. “The expansion of digital will make this worth
more and more.”  The deal will help finance films including a Batman-Superman project starring Ben Affleck that’s scheduled for July
2015. The financing comes two months after Legendary
Entertainment LLC, another film investor, left Warner Bros. for
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s Universal Pictures.  “This agreement gives us increased strength and
flexibility in the motion picture division and an even greater
ability to manage risk as we continue to produce high-quality
filmed entertainment for the global audience,” Kevin Tsujihara,
chief executive officer of Burbank, California-based Warner
Bros., said in an e-mailed statement.  The investment, which include films produced by New York-based Time Warner’s New Line Cinema unit, begins with
“Gravity,” out Oct. 4.  Time Warner fell 0.6 percent to $65.81 yesterday in New
York. The stock has gained 38 percent this year, compared with
an 18 percent advance for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  