-- Two Hillary Clinton Shows That Irked Republicans are Off
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   A n t h o n y   P a l a z z o
-- 2013-10-01T04:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/two-hillary-clinton-shows-that-irked-republicans-are-off.html
Planned programs about Hillary Clinton that so angered Republican leaders they voted to ban two
television networks from hosting 2016 presidential primary
debates have been canceled.  In separate announcements yesterday, CNN and NBC said they
are scrapping their plans for shows highlighting the life and
career of the former U.S. secretary of state, senator from New
York and first lady who many Democrats are pushing to seek the
party’s 2016 presidential nomination.  Clinton, who gave up her post as President  Barack Obama ’s
chief diplomat early this year, has been silent about her
political plans. Polls have shown her the odds-on favorite for
the Democratic presidential nomination.  CNN Films was planning a feature-length  documentary  about
Clinton. NBC Entertainment had planned a mini-series in which
actress Diane Lane had been cast to play Clinton, 65.  Charles Ferguson, the director for the CNN project,
disclosed its cancellation in a blog  post  at the Huffington Post
website.  “I would have loved to explore all this,” he wrote. “But
when I approached people for interviews, I discovered that
nobody, and I mean nobody, was interested in helping me make
this film. Not Democrats, not Republicans -- and certainly
nobody who works with the Clintons, wants access to the
Clintons, or dreams of a position in a Hillary Clinton
administration.”  The film, which  CNN  commissioned earlier this year, was
expected to premiere in 2014 with a theatrical run before airing
on the cable network.  ‘Respect’ Decision  “Charles Ferguson has informed us that he is not moving
forward with his documentary about Hillary Clinton,” CNN said
in a statement e-mailed yesterday. “Charles is an Academy Award
winning director who CNN Films was excited to be working with,
but we understand and respect his decision.”  Later in the day, NBC confirmed it was shelving its
project.  “After reviewing and prioritizing our slate of movie/mini-series development, we’ve decided that we will no longer
continue developing the Hillary Clinton mini-series,” an NBC
spokesman said in an e-mailed statement.  The planned mini-series was announced by  NBC Entertainment (CMCSA) 
Chairman Bob Greenblatt in July.  In mid-August, the Republican National Committee
unanimously voted to prohibit the party from joining in 2016
presidential primary debate partnerships with CNN and NBC
because of the planned Clinton programs.  “This was only the first step in the Republican Party
taking control of our debate process,” RNC spokeswoman Kirsten
Kukowski said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Now that CNN
and NBC have canceled their Hillary Clinton infomercials, we
will work on developing a new debate model that will address the
timing, frequency, moderators and venues that will come in the
next few months.”  -- Editors: Don Frederick, Jeanne Cummings  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net 
Anthony Palazzo in Los Angeles at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  