-- WTI Falls to Three-Month Low on Looming U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-09-30T20:16:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/wti-falls-to-three-month-low-on-looming-u-s-shutdown.html
West Texas Intermediate crude
dropped to the lowest level in almost three months as the U.S.
was poised for a U.S. government shutdown that may reduce demand
in the world’s largest oil-consuming country.  Futures slipped 0.5 percent, capping the biggest monthly
loss since February. Congress has until the end of the day to
resolve a budget stalemate. A shutdown would cut fourth-quarter
U.S. growth as much as 1.4 percentage points, economists said.
WTI also fell after President  Barack Obama  and Iran’s President
Hassan Rouhani spoke by phone on Sept. 27 about the Islamic
Republic’s nuclear program and the  United Nations Security
Council  approved a plan to scrap  Syria ’s chemical arms.  “The fear that the U.S. government will shut down this
evening is the focus of the market,” said Julius Walker, global
energy markets strategist at UBS Securities LLC in  New York .  WTI crude for November delivery decreased 54 cents to
$102.33 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since July 3. The volume of all futures traded was
about 27 percent below the 100-day average at 4:14 p.m. Prices
slid 4.9 percent this month. They climbed 6 percent this quarter
and are up 11 percent in 2013.  Brent oil for November settlement fell 26 cents to end the
session at $108.37 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Volume was 26 percent lower than the 100-day
average. Prices dropped 4.9 percent in September and are down
2.5 percent this year. They rose 6.1 percent in the third
quarter.  The European benchmark crude closed at a $6.04 premium to
WTI, compared with $5.76 yesterday.  Deadlocked Congress  Declines eased as the deadlocked  U.S. Congress  headed into
the final hours before the partial government shutdown without
any signs of averting widespread furloughs of federal employees.
Republicans and Democrats remained at odds over whether to tie
any changes to the 2010 Affordable Care Act to a short-term
extension of government funding.  “The market seems to be less concerned about the impending
government shutdown than was earlier the case,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion. “The
feeling appears to be that it will only last a couple days.”  The Senate voted 54-46 today to reject the House of
Representatives’ latest plan, in a party-line move that puts the
pressure back on  House Republicans . Even if the budget fight is
resolved, lawmakers would immediately move to the next fiscal
dispute over raising the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling.  Furloughed Workers  The biggest effect would come from the output lost from
furloughed workers. Essential operations and programs with
dedicated funding would continue.  “Congress is playing football with  consumer confidence  and
that’s hurting the economic expectations for everything,
including demand for oil,” said  Michael Lynch , president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts . “This is a nervous time for the market.”  Equities and commodities declined on prospect of a U.S.
government shutdown. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.6
percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 0.8 percent.
S&P’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials slid 0.6 percent.  “The combination of the prospect of lower economic growth
here and an improving geopolitical situation have prices moving
lower,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market research at
Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “A government
shutdown has the potential of shaving as much as 1.4 percentage
points off of U.S. growth. The Syrian  risk premium  has come out
of the market and the Iranian one is dissipating.”  Phone Conversation  The phone call between Obama and Rouhani was the first time
since the 1979 Iranian revolution that leaders of the two
countries have spoken directly.  Sanctions aimed at stopping the Islamic republic’s nuclear
program have hindered its ability to export crude oil. Iran is a
key player in Syria’s civil war, nuclear proliferation and
Middle East peace.  The UN Security Council voted 15-0 on Sept. 27 to adopt a
resolution drafted by the U.S., the U.K. and France to rid Syria
of chemical weapons in response to an Aug. 21 sarin gas attack
near Damascus that killed more than 1,400 people.  ‘Positive Developments’  “We’ve had positive developments on both the  Iran  and
Syria fronts,” said Bob Yawger, director of the futures
division at Mizuho Securities USA Inc. in New York. “We kept on
hearing that there was $10 of geopolitical risk built into the
price. It looks like the oil market is losing it.”  Oil rose to a two-year high of $112.24 on Aug. 28 amid
concern that a U.S.-led assault would widen the Syrian conflict
and disrupt Middle East supplies. Syria borders Iraq, the
second-biggest crude producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, Bloomberg estimates show.  OPEC  crude production rose 43,000 barrels to an average
31.082 million barrels a day in September, the most in 10
months, the survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts
showed. Saudi output advanced 50,000 barrels to 10 million
barrels a day in September, the highest level for OPEC’s biggest
supplier in monthly data going back to 1989.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 21.8 percent, up from 20 on Sept. 27, data compiled
by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 404,083
contracts as of 4:14 p.m. It totaled 466,571 contracts
yesterday, 24 percent below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.86 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  