-- WTI Crude Drops Amid Potential U.S. Government Shutdown
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-09-30T12:36:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/wti-drops-to-three-month-low-as-u-s-government-faces-shutdown.html
West Texas Intermediate crude fell
to the lowest in almost three months on concerns the U.S.
government is heading for a shutdown over a budget stalemate
that may reduce demand in the world’s largest oil consumer.  Futures slipped as much as 1.5 percent in New York,
extending this month’s decline to 5.6 percent. The U.S. Congress
has one day to end a spending gridlock that raises the risk of
the first government shutdown in 17 years. Prices also fell
after President  Barack Obama  and Iran’s President Hassan Rouhani
spoke by phone on Sept. 27 about the Islamic Republic’s nuclear
program and the United Nations Security Council approved a plan
to eliminate  Syria ’s chemical weapons.  “The U.S. was one of the places in the world where
economic data has improved for the last three to four months,
and if we really get ‘Fiscal Cliff 2.0’ that growth is at
risk,” said Andy Sommer, a senior oil analyst at Axpo Trading
AG in Dietikon, Switzerland. “You’ll have to reduce economic
growth forecasts, and, therefore, oil demand forecasts.”  WTI for November delivery slid as much as $1.54 to $101.33
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange, the lowest intraday price since July 5. The contract
was at $101.50 at 1:17 p.m. London time. The volume of all
futures traded was about 18 percent below the 100-day average.
Prices are up 5.2 percent this quarter and 11 percent in 2013.  Brent for November settlement fell as much as $1.21, or 1.1
percent, to $107.42 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark crude was at a premium
of $6.22 to WTI futures, up from $5.76 on Sept. 27.  Bullish Bets  The House of Representatives voted 231-192 yesterday to
extend U.S. government funding through Dec. 15 by tying it to
limits on the central provisions of Obama’s Affordable Care Act.
The government might shut tomorrow should the Senate reject the
bill.  A stoppage may trim fourth-quarter economic growth by as
much as 1.4 percentage points, depending on its duration,
according to economists. The biggest effect would come from the
output lost from furloughed workers. Essential operations and
programs with dedicated funding would continue.  Hedge funds cut bullish bets on crude to a 12-week low on
the U.S. budget impasse and easing concern about the Middle
East. Money managers reduced net-long positions in WTI, or
wagers that prices will increase, by 2.1 percent to 275,098
futures and options combined in the seven days ended Sept. 24,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s Sept. 27
Commitments of Traders report. It was the lowest level since
July 2.  Middle East  The phone call between Obama and Rouhani was the first time
since the 1979 Iranian revolution that leaders of the two
countries have spoken directly. During their 15-minute exchange,
conducted via interpreters, the presidents “expressed their
mutual political will to rapidly solve the nuclear issue,”
Rouhani said on Twitter.  “The apparent progress in diplomacy on  Iran  and Syria will
further ease tensions,” said Robin Mills, the head of
consulting at Dubai-based Manaar Energy Consulting and Project
Management. “People felt that there was far more than $10 for
geopolitical risk, and I think quite a bit of that has come out
as the tension over Iran and Syria seems to have eased.”  The UN Security Council voted 15-0 on Sept. 27 to adopt a
resolution drafted by the U.S., the U.K. and  France  to rid Syria
of chemical weapons in response to an Aug. 21 sarin gas attack
near Damascus that killed more than 1,400 people.  Oil rose to a two-year high on Aug. 28 amid concern that a
U.S.-led assault would widen the Syrian conflict and disrupt
Middle East supplies. Syria borders  Iraq  and is near Iran, which
together control almost a fifth of the production capacity in
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Bloomberg
estimates show. The Middle East accounted for about 35 percent
of global oil production in the first quarter of this year,
according to the International Energy Agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  