-- Yankees’ Rodriguez Begins Appeal of 211-Game MLB Drug Ban
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-09-30T14:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/yankees-rodriguez-set-to-begin-appeal-of-211-game-mlb-drug-ban.html
Alex Rodriguez  begins his appeal
against a 211-game drug suspension from  Major League Baseball 
after the  New York Yankees ’ season ended yesterday.  Rodriguez, 38, told reporters during the Yankees’ season-closing series in Houston that he’ll be present for each day of
the appeal process starting today at MLB headquarters in New
York. Rodriguez said he expects the appeal to take five days.  “This has been a burden, a big burden,” Rodriguez was
cited as saying by  MLB.com . “Let’s get it on.”  Rodriguez arrived for the start of the hearing this morning
as a dozen fans chanted “A-Rod!” from behind police
barricades. Rodriguez told them, “Thank you,” and went inside
without speaking to reporters who were gathered at the site.  A three-time American League Most Valuable Player,
Rodriguez is fifth on MLB’s career list with 654 home runs, six
behind Hall of Fame outfielder  Willie Mays .  Rodriguez filed an appeal with an independent arbitrator
Aug. 6, one day after MLB suspended him without pay through the
2014 season. MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig  accused Rodriguez of
using testosterone and human growth hormone over “multiple
years” and of trying to “obstruct and frustrate” baseball’s
investigation of performance-enhancing substances supplied to
players from a now-closed clinic in Miami.  Rodriguez, who appeared in 44 games this season while
hitting .244 with seven home runs and 19 runs batted in, said he
won’t discuss specifics of the case or his appeal. He was able
to play for the Yankees after filing the appeal.  “This is going to be a grueling process all the way
through until it’s completely over,” Rodriguez said, according
to MLB. com. “You’ll hear the full story when the time is right
for me. That time is not just now.”  The Yankees missed the playoffs for the second time in 19
years this season after finishing in third place in the American
League East Division with an 85-77 record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  