-- Yuan Completes Fifth Quarterly Gain on Economic Recovery Signs
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-09-30T08:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-30/yuan-set-for-fifth-quarterly-gain-on-economic-recovery-signs.html
China’s  yuan  completed its fifth
straight quarter of gains on stronger central bank fixings amid
signs Asia’s largest economy is recovering from a slowdown.  The People’s Bank of China raised its daily  reference rate ,
which limits the yuan’s daily moves to 1 percent on either side,
by 0.5 percent to 6.1480 this quarter. Manufacturing activity
increased for q second month in September, while exports
advanced for a second month in August, official data show. The
yuan’s appreciation has slowed since end-June after gaining the
most since 2011 in the previous three months amid a cash squeeze
engineered by authorities to curb excessive lending.  “The yuan was supported by improving growth momentum,”
said Andy Ji, a Singapore-based currency strategist at
Commonwealth Bank of  Australia . “Onshore demand for the yuan is
not as strong as a quarter ago due to the liquidity crunch.”  The Chinese currency gained 0.25 percent this quarter to
6.1220 per dollar in Shanghai, after strengthening 1.2 percent
in the previous three months, China Foreign Exchange Trade
System prices showed. It slipped 0.03 percent today. The yuan
has appreciated 1.8 percent this year, the only gainer among
Asia’s 11 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The PBOC wants to keep the yuan “stable,” said Ji. For
today, the market is watching developments in the U.S., where
the House of Representatives voted 231-192 to stop many of the
Affordable Care Act’s central provisions for one year, tying it
to an extension of government funding through Dec. 15. Should
the Senate reject the bill today, the government could be shut
down from tomorrow.  PMI, Economy  China ’s Purchasing Managers’ Index from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics rose to 50.2 in September from 50.1 in
August, data showed today. The economy probably grew 7.7 percent
in the third quarter, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey this month, up from an estimate of 7.5 percent
in August. Growth was 7.5 percent last quarter, the second-weakest in four years.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on the yuan climbed
1.4 percent this quarter to 6.2010 per dollar in Hong Kong,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts slipped
0.01 percent today and traded at a 1.3 percent discount to the
onshore spot rate.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan rose 0.31 percent
this quarter to 6.1177 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It weakened 0.01 percent today.  One-month implied volatility in the onshore yuan, a measure
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
dropped 58 basis points, or 0.58 percentage point, this quarter
to 1.23 percent. It slipped one basis point today.  Citigroup Inc. and Bank of China Ltd. announced yesterday
they will participate in  Shanghai ’s free trade zone as the
Chinese government inaugurated the experiment in more relaxed
financial and investment controls.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  