-- 
Abu Dhabi Cancels Concrete Works Tender of Guggenheim Museum

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-10-23T12:24:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/abu-dhabi-cancels-concrete-works-tender-of-guggenheim-museum.html
Tourism Development & Investment Co.
of  Abu Dhabi  canceled the concrete works tender for the planned
Guggenheim museum in the United Arab Emirates capital as it
reviews the project procurement strategy.  The tender, which is part of several contracts that make up
the project, will be re-tendered at a future date, according to
a statement received by e-mail today. Building foundation piles
have been installed and the design is due for completion in
early 2012, it said.  The Abu Dhabi Guggenheim, designed by  Frank Gehry , was due
to open in 2013 on Saadiyat Island, or Island of Happiness. The
island, part of the emirate’s push to diversify its economy away
from oil revenue, plans to house $27 billion worth of
developments including a branch of the  Louvre Museum , the Zayed
National Museum, and a New York University campus. Tourism
Development declined to comment whether the completion of
Guggenheim will be delayed.  Tourism Development, a developer of hotels and museums in
Abu Dhabi, cut its 2011 budget by 28 percent to 13.4 billion
dirhams ($3.7 billion) as it delayed some projects, according to
a bond prospectus in July. It had a loss of 1.2 billion dirhams
last year after a loss of 551 million dirhams in 2009, according
to its financial statements. The company delayed selling bonds
under a $3 billion program in July.  Other Abu Dhabi government ventures have also been delayed
as the sheikhdom scales back the ambitious plans it made before
the 2008 financial crisis. Masdar, a $22 billion state-owned
renewable energy company, said in October it was scaling back
the zero-carbon ambition for its purpose-built city. It delayed
the city’s first phase by two years to 2015.  Abu Dhabi holds most of the U.A.E.’s oil and gas reserves.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tamara Walid in Abu Dhabi at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  