-- 
Thai Premier Says Flood Severity in Downtown Bangkok ‘Unclear’

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-10-23T08:58:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/thai-premier-says-flood-severity-in-downtown-bangkok-unclear-.html
Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra
said  Thailand ’s worst flooding in 50 years may reach inner
Bangkok, as a deluge from the north drains through the capital
and threatens to overrun canals in the city center.  “Bangkokians will have some impact as water will flow
through canals,” she told reporters today. “It is still
unclear how long Bangkok people will be affected as there are
many uncontrollable factors.”  Floodwaters throughout the capital may reach more than one
meter (3.3 feet), she said in response to questions from
reporters today. Yingluck expressed concern about water levels
in  Saen Saeb canal , which runs close to shopping centers such as
Central World and Sukhumvit Road. The nation’s heaviest flooding
in a half century has killed more than 300 people.  Residents in the capital are stocking up on water, canned
food and instant noodles after Yingluck warned them to move
belongings to high ground. She has vowed to protect the city’s
airports,  power plants  and major transport routes from
floodwaters sitting north of Bangkok that may take six weeks to
drain through the city’s 1,682 canals.  Bangkok officials warned residents in nine of the capital’s
50 districts to expect flooding as water presses against levies.
The threatened areas contain about 20 percent of the capital’s
5.7 million people and 44 percent of the total land area,
according to government statistics.  Apple, Toyota Disruptions  Floods north of the capital have swamped thousands of
businesses, causing the worst supply disruptions for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and Toyota Motor Corp. since the March earthquake that crippled
 Japan . Thailand makes about a quarter of the world’s hard-disk
drives and serves as a production hub for Japanese carmakers and
electronics firms.  Pramote Maiklad, a former irrigation chief who is advising
Yingluck, told reporters water should be drained out of the
eastern part of Bangkok to take pressure off downtown areas. The
capital sits on the bottom of a  flood plain  that has an average
elevation of less than two meters (6.6 feet) above  sea level .  “The eastern part of Bangkok has a lot of canals and
permanent barriers that can handle certain amounts of water,”
he said. “So we should divert the water to that part and pump
it out of the sea to protect inner Bangkok.”  Army chief Prayuth Chan-Ocha yesterday ordered soldiers to
strengthen levies around two industrial estates in Eastern
Bangkok that are home to factories operated by Honda Motor Co.,
Unilever and Cadbury Plc.  No Guarantees  “We’ll do our best to protect them,” Prayuth told
reporters in Bangkok yesterday after visiting the industrial
estates. “We can’t guarantee 100 percent that they won’t be
flooded.”  Suvarnabhumi, Bangkok’s main international airport, was
operating normally along with Don Mueang airport, which mostly
handles domestic flights and houses the government’s flood
relief operations command. The city will experience a high tide
from Oct. 28 to Oct. 30, Yingluck said.  Bangkok Governor Sukhumbhand Paribatra gave “a very strong
warning” for 27 communities along the Chao Phraya river to head
to government shelters after water levels unexpectedly rose
yesterday before stabilizing, spokesman Jate Sopitpongstorn said
by phone.  Tourist boats were still operating along the river today
near an elevated train station. The nearby Shangri-La Hotel had
a meter-high, stone barrier on top of a retaining wall to
protect against flooding. Only a handful of people were seen in
the lobby this afternoon.  Hotels, Offices  Elsewhere in Bangkok, major hotels in downtown areas Silom,
Sukhumvit and Sathon were operating normally, even as they took
precautions. Sandbags were piled near office buildings and
hotels, including the  St. Regis  owned by Minor International Plc,
the nation’s biggest hotel operator.  Just outside the city, boats ferried women, children and
the elderly down main boulevards past people trudging through
waist-deep water carrying plastic bags over their heads,
television images showed.  More than 100,000 people are living
in about 1,700 government evacuation centers, which can handle
as many as 800,000 people, Yingluck said. Toxic water was found
in Patum Thani north of Bangkok, the government said.  Thailand’s central bank, which left the benchmark  interest
rate  unchanged this week at 3.50 percent, signaled Oct. 20 it is
may consider cutting rates as the disaster threatens to slow
growth. The benchmark SET Index fell 4.1 percent last week.  The damage caused by the floods cost as much as 120 billion
baht ($3.9 billion), Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said Oct. 14.  Barclays Capital  cut its forecast
for Thai economic growth this year to 2.9 percent from 3.7
percent because of flood-related losses, it said in a report.
Official data yesterday showed exports rose 19.1 percent in
September from a year earlier, the least since June.  Thailand may lose 6 million metric tons of unmilled rice as
floods damage key plantation areas, Apichart Jongskul,
secretary-general of the Office of Agricultural Economics, said
in a phone interview Oct. 21. Communities in parts of Southeast
Asia face “serious food shortages,” the  United Nations  said in
a report two days ago.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  