-- 
All Blacks’ Fourth-Choice Fly-Half Helps Break 24-Year World Cup Drought

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-10-23T13:51:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/all-blacks-fourth-choice-fly-half-helps-break-24-year-world-cup-drought.html
New Zealand  needed fourth-choice
fly-half Stephen Donald to kick the decisive penalty in the 8-7
Rugby World Cup final win over France that ended the host
nation’s 24-year gap between titles.  Donald came off the bench six minutes before half time when
starting playmaker Aaron Cruden injured his knee. His 46th-
minute penalty put New Zealand 8-0 up at Auckland’s  Eden Park 
last night and the All Blacks held on after France pulled within
a point with 31 minutes to go.  “I had a thought during the week when he came in that he
could easily end up kicking the goal that would be the
difference,” New Zealand captain Richie McCaw told reporters.
“A couple of weeks ago he wouldn’t have dreamed of being in a
 World Cup  final. He got to play 50 minutes of it. He did his
job.”  Donald’s penalty from about 30 meters out in front of the
posts was one of only two successful kicks at goal in last
night’s final. Both teams missed two penalties, while New
Zealand scrum-half Piri Weepu also put a conversion wide.  Donald, 27, was the third injury replacement called up to
the All Blacks’ 30-man World Cup squad as the demands of playing
seven games on consecutive weekends led to player attrition.
First choice fly-half  Dan Carter , the leading points scorer in
elite Tests, injured his groin during practice before a pool
match while his backup  Colin Slade  and full-back Mils Muliaina
got injured in the quarterfinal win over  Argentina .  ‘Never Gave Up’  Donald’s appearance in the final was his first match for
the All Blacks since Nov. 2010, when he featured against
 Scotland  on the team’s tour of the U.K. and Ireland. The
selectors were criticized by New Zealand media for picking him
ahead of Cruden and Slade as Carter’s backup less than a year
out from the World Cup.  “I never gave up on that dream,” Donald said last night.
“When I got called into the squad the dream got closer to being
a reality.”  The callup from coach  Graham Henry  less than two weeks
before yesterday’s final caught him by surprise, and under-
prepared. He was net fishing for whitebait, a task that often
requires long vigils on river banks.  “My preparation hasn’t been ideal,” he said. “When you
go whitebaiting you usually take a couple of beers with you. So
my fitness was probably not what it could have been.”  Donald’s crucial contribution justified the faith shown in
him by All Blacks management, Henry said.  ‘Team Person’  “He’s a tremendous team person,” Henry told reporters.
“It was just great that he could come through and kick that
goal and play some good football in the second half.”  New Zealand and  France  scored one try each in the final.
Donald, who will join English club Bath after the tournament,
took over the kicking after Weepu also missed two penalties in
the first half.  France fly-half Morgan Parra also left the field in the
first half following two collisions. His replacement Francois
Trinh-Duc converted Thierry Dusautoir’s try before missing a 49-
meter penalty that would have given France the lead.  The All Blacks held the French off the rest of the way and
the forwards wound the clock down to secure New Zealand’s second
title after also beating France in 1987 at Eden Park.  “Stephen Donald was incredible tonight,” All Blacks full-
back Israel Dagg told reporters. “He had a lot of pressure on
him.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Auckland at  twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  