-- 
Manchester City Makes Plenty of Noise in Rout of Crosstown Rivals United

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-10-23T23:01:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/manchester-city-routs-united-6-1-in-top-of-table-premier-league-showdown.html
The “noisy neighbors” had
something to prove yesterday at Old Trafford.  Manchester City  routed rival Manchester United 6-1 to
increase its lead to five points in the standings of English
soccer’s Premier League.  Mario Balotelli  and Edin Dzeko each
scored twice as unbeaten City handed United its first loss of
the season.  Referred to as “noisy neighbors” by United manager  Alex Ferguson  for big spending during the past few years, City has 25
points to United’s 20 after nine matches.  “People call us the noisy neighbors but here we are,”
City defender Micah Richards told Sky Sports after United
suffered its first home league loss since April 2010. “We have
a good set of lads and we want to show people what we can do.”  Sergio Aguero  and  David Silva  also had goals for City,
which scored five times in the second half after United’s Jonny Evans was red-carded.  Darren Fletcher  scored for the defending
champion.  “It was our worst ever day,” Ferguson told Sky Sports.
“It’s the worst result in my history, ever. Even as a player I
don’t think I ever lost 6-1.”  Chelsea lost 1-0 at QPR, and had two players sent off,
missing a chance to jump over United into second place.
Tottenham won 2-1 at Blackburn, Arsenal beat Stoke 3-1 and
Everton won by the same score at Fulham.  Manchester City took the lead in the 22nd minute as Silva
sent a ball to  James Milner  on the left. Milner cut a pass back
to the center and Balotelli side-footed a shot from the edge of
the area inside the right post.  Red Card  Evans was sent off two minutes into the second half for
pulling down Balotelli at the edge of the area as the Italian
made a run at goal. Balotelli struck again in the 60th minute
and Aguero made it 3-0 nine minutes later by finishing off
another series of passes with Silva and Milner.  United’s goal came in the 81st minute as Fletcher finished
off a one-two with  Javier Hernandez  by curling a shot into the
top right corner. Dzeko, who replaced Balotelli, scored in the
final minute and Silva made it 5-1 in stoppage time. Dzeko then
completed the rout less than a minute later.  “It isn’t important that it was 6-1, it’s important that
we have beaten a fantastic team,” City manager  Roberto Mancini 
said on the club’s website. “I am happy with the three
points.”  Ferguson said he was disappointed in his team’s attacking
attitude being a man down and trailing.  “At times our fullbacks were almost like wingers and we
were playing almost two versus three at the back,” he said on
United’s website. “That was suicide and crazy.”  QPR Wins  At QPR, Heidar Helguson scored with a penalty kick in the
10th minute the hosts denied west London rival Chelsea a chance
to move to second place. It came after the striker was taken
down in the area by  David Luiz .  Jose Bosingwa  was shown a red card in the 33rd minute for
pulling down Shaun Wright-Phillips with the winger having a
chance for a run at goal. Didier Drogba was then sent off eight
minutes later for a two-footed challenge against Adel Taarabt.
The Blues also received seven yellow cards in the match.  “It’s a really contested derby,” QPR coach  Neil Warnock 
told  Sky Sports . “I thought our boys did brilliant. To get
three points against Chelsea is like a dream.”  Rafael van der Vaart  scored both goals as Tottenham moved
up to fifth place by winning at Blackburn. The Dutchman opened
the scoring in the 15th minute, then won the game in the 53rd
after Mauro Formica pulled Rovers even.  Van Persie   Robin van Persie scored twice after coming on as a second-
half substitute to lead Arsenal to the home win over Stoke.
Gervinho gave Arsenal the lead after 27 minutes only to see
Peter Crouch tie the score seven minutes later.  Van Persie came on for Marouane Chamakh in the 66th minute
and fired the Gunners into the lead seven minutes later. He then
clinched the victory in the 82nd minute.  Louis Saha  scored in the 90th minute and Jack Rodwell added
a score in stoppage time to give Everton the win at Fulham.  Fourth-place Newcastle remained the league’s only other
unbeaten team with a 1-0 win over Wigan two days ago, while West
Brom beat 10-man Aston Villa 2-1, Sunderland defeated Bolton 2-
0, Wolverhampton tied Swansea 2-2 and Norwich drew 1-1 at
Liverpool.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  