-- 
Many Black Swans Make the Metaphor Meaningless: Alice Schroeder

-- B y   A l i c e   S c h r o e d e r
-- 
2011-10-23T23:04:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/many-black-swans-make-metaphor-meaningless-commentary-by-alice-schroeder.html
Nassim Taleb  believes in
probabilities, not predictions, but at times it can be hard to
tell the difference. “The real Black Swan event,” he said in
June, “is that people are not rioting against the banks in
 London  and  New York .”  Taleb saw it coming, and his well-publicized remark may be
the only reason Occupy Wall Street hasn’t been labeled a black
swan. This once-rare bird, made ubiquitous by Taleb’s best-
selling 2007 book of the same title, now appears so often after
dramatic events, such as Occupy Wall Street, that sightings of
it have become meaningless.  The black swan was meant to be a rallying cry for
preparedness. Instead it has become the opposite: a loathsome
excuse for lack of planning by those who should know better. We
need to send the swan to a rear shelf in the closet of ideas to
gather dust until an actual black swan appears.  In the past two years, the term “black swan” has been
applied to the earthquake in  Haiti , the deadly Russian heat
wave, the Gulf of  Mexico  oil spill, the stock market’s “flash
crash” of 2010, the volcanic eruption in Iceland that spread an
 ash cloud  over  Europe , the  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of the
U.S.’s AAA credit rating, the populist uprising in  Egypt , and
lawlessness in Mexico.  Trivialized  The black swan has been so trivialized that it was even
used to describe the 2010 “snowmaggedon” winter storms in
 Washington . And, of course, the black swan has been blamed over
and over for laying the egg known as the financial crisis. Some
observers are convinced that when they look at the sovereign
debt crisis unfolding in Europe, they see ebony wings.  Taleb’s book regaled readers with stories of a space-
shuttle explosion, the rise of  Adolf Hitler , World War II, the
emergence of Islamic fundamentalism, and the stock-market crash
of 1987. Yet none of these events, nor recent crises, fits his
definition of a black swan: the “unknown unknown,” an outlier
with extreme impact for which nothing in the past “can
convincingly point to its possibility.” In fact, if you waited
long enough, the odds of such things happening approach 100
percent.  Taleb knows there are fewer black swans than people think.
But he disdains experts, predictions and theories of causality.
This makes his concept slippery: If nothing can legitimately be
forecast, then anything is a black swan.  To his credit, in a revised edition of the book, Taleb
freely admits he took the black-swan metaphor too far. A
philosopher challenged his definition, to which he responded,
“Indeed, she caught me red-handed. There is a contradiction:
This book is a story.” He added, “Ideas come and go, stories
stay.”  Taleb has been vocal in denouncing the idea of the
financial crisis as a black swan. To cover such foreseeable
extreme events like these, he created a category of “gray
swans.” But gray swans are drab. Nobody talks about them.  The last event that I would call a true black swan was
Sept. 11, when both World Trade Center buildings were attacked
and collapsed, against engineering expectations. Contrary to
many claims, the terrible 2011 Japanese earthquake wasn’t a
black swan, even though seismological models, as they always do,
failed to predict its severity. Apart from the huge loss of
life, economic losses are estimated in the hundreds of billions,
yet the  insurance industry  will probably pay out only about $35
billion in claims. Insurers are aware these events can exceed
model predictions by wide margins so they have limited their
earthquake exposure and excluded nuclear losses from coverage.  Gray Swans  Likewise, many of the other black-swan disasters of the
past few years that are really gray swans have resulted in
unpleasant, but far from crippling, losses for the insurance
industry. And when the day comes that a gigantic asteroid
strikes the Earth; a New Madrid-fault earthquake levels much of
the eastern U.S.; or a bioterrorist/cyberspace attack hits, the
insurance industry will already have arranged not to pay the
losses through policy exclusions.  There is a disconnect here, and a big one. If insurers can
spot the risk of a gray swan, underwrite and even exclude it,
why aren’t those who are exposed to the risk doing a better job
of preparing?  Instead we are making matters worse. For one thing, it was
only a matter of time before  Wall Street  would figure out a way
to profit from gray swans. As of April 2011, about $38 billion
had been raised by “black swan” funds designed to profit from
extreme low-probability events. Are these funds a canny strategy
or a wasteful form of hedging? Either way, their proliferation
certainly brings Armageddon closer by creating counterparties
for the kind of risky optimistic bets needed to cause it. Many
other responses to the so-called black swan of the financial
crisis have added to the moral hazard already in the banking
system.  The “too big to fail” taxpayer guarantee and the lack of
substantive financial reform are the worst offenses. This isn’t
what should be happening. If there had been no way to duck
accountability by calling the crisis an “unforeseeable” event,
the public might have demanded real solutions earlier from its
leaders. Without the excuse of the black swan, perhaps there
would be less reason now for anyone to Occupy Wall Street.  ( Alice Schroeder , the author of “The Snowball:  Warren Buffett  and the Business of Life” and formerly a top-ranked
insurance analyst on Wall Street, is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the author of this article:
Alice Schroeder at  aliceschroeder@ymail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  