-- 
Large Quake Rocks Eastern Turkey

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-10-23T17:38:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/large-quake-damages-buildings-in-turkey.html
Turkey ’s largest earthquake in more
than a decade may have killed 1,000 people, destroying apartment
buildings and damaging 4,000 homes in the eastern province of
Van, government officials said.  State-run TRT television said 85 people have been confirmed
dead, 60 of them in the northern town of Ercis, while 80
buildings, including a dormitory, have collapsed. Officials from
the Kandilli Observatory and Earthquake Research Institute said
500 to 1,000 people may have died.  The magnitude 7.2-earthquake struck in the province of Van
by the Iranian border at 1:41 p.m. local time and was followed
by more than 80 aftershocks, the observatory at  Bogazici
University  in Istanbul said on its website. The temblor, 5
kilometers (3 miles) below the earth’s surface, was the
province’s biggest since 1976 and the country’s most severe
since a 1999 quake killed more than 17,000 people.  “The area where the earthquake occurred is very shallow,”
Mustafa Erdik, head of the Kandilli observatory, said in
televised comments. “Normally quakes happen 30 to 40 kilometers
deep -- this is less than 10 kilometers, therefore there will be
more damage.”  CNN Turk television showed images of men in Van on the
rubble of a collapsed dormitory building, digging away wreckage
with shovels to reach people they believe were trapped
underneath.  Aid Efforts  More than 1,000 rescue workers from about 30 provinces are
heading to Van, about 1,300 miles from Istanbul, said Mustafa
Aydogdu, a spokesman for the Disaster and Emergency Management
Presidency.  Greek Foreign Minister Stavros Lambrinidis spoke with
Turkish counterpart Ahmet Davutoglu to extend his condolences
and assured him the country was prepared to assist its eastern
neighbor, the ministry in  Athens  said in an e-mailed statement.
The North Atlantic Treaty Organization also said by e-mail that
it stands “ready to assist our ally Turkey.”  Other countries that called to convey condolences and offer
help include  Israel ,  Azerbaijan ,  Pakistan , Ukraine,  Russia ,
 Canada  and  South Korea , the U.S., the U.K, Germany, Poland,
Hungary, Switzerland, Bulgaria, Georgia, China, Japan, Iran and
 Kosovo , the state-run Anatolia news agency reported.  The  Turkish Red Crescent  is coordinating initial efforts to
get aid to Van from eight provinces, Erdem Coplen, a spokesman
in Ankara, said in an e-mailed statement. Under the first stage
of the emergency response, 1,163 tents, 4,250 blankets, 100
heaters and food has been shipped to the region, he said.  More Aftershocks  “I would advise our citizens to not enter damaged
buildings without permission from local authorities,” Erdik
said. “The biggest aftershock was magnitude-5.5 and these will
continue for a week to 10 days.”  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  arrived in Van and
boarded a helicopter to Ercis, the worst hit area, TRT reported.
Deputy Prime Minister Besir Atalay said government agencies are
coordinating a response to the earthquake and will meet in the
province, which is to the east of Turkey’s largest lake and
south of Mount Ararat.  The quake in 1999 struck 100 kilometers (about 60 miles)
east of Istanbul, causing damage estimated at the time at $6.5
billion. A temblor measuring 6.1 on the Richter scale killed
more than 40 people in Elazig, west of Van, last March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 Sbryant5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  