-- 
Bangladesh Stocks Rally as Banks Pledge to Invest in Equities

-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-10-23T11:35:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/bangladesh-stocks-rally-as-banks-pledge-to-invest-in-equities.html
Bangladesh ’s stocks posted their
biggest two-day rally in more than seven months after the
nation’s banks pledged to set up a fund to invest in equities.  The Dhaka Stock Exchange’s benchmark General Index rose 2
percent to 5,654.25 at the 3 p.m. close, after a 5.4 percent
surge on Oct. 20. The two-day 7.5 percent gain is the most since
March 10, trimming this year’s losses to 32 percent.  Commercial banks in Bangladesh will set up a 50-billion
taka ($659 million) fund to invest in the nation’s stocks,
Nazrul Islam Mazumder, chairman of the Bangladesh Association of
Banks, told reporters in Dhaka today.  “The fund will temporarily give some respite to the
troubled market and give scope to those who are stuck with their
positions to come out of the market,” Mamun Rashid, director at
BRAC Business School in Dhaka, said in a phone interview. “We
need big initial public offerings of well-managed companies to
make the market sustainable.”  Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s government is extending
amnesty offers to tax evaders and presenting other incentives to
bolster a market that is set for its steepest annual drop in 14
years. Authorities closed the bourse on Jan. 10 after investors
protested over the gauge’s worst daily performance in five
years.  Boost The Market  “We hope the fund will help boost the stock market,” said
Mazumder, who is also chairman of Export Import Bank of
Bangladesh. The fund is subject to approval from the nation’s
central bank and the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
stock market regulator, he said.  The government will offer tax incentives for investments in
stocks, and waive levies on income from mutual funds, M. Khairul Hossain, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission said
on Oct. 17.  In June, policy makers revived an amnesty offer that
allowed tax evaders to put their undisclosed wealth in equities.
Individuals could buy stocks with the cash after paying a flat
10 percent tax as penalty, according to Finance Minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith.  Bangladesh, where more than half of the population of 166
million lack electricity, aims to boost economic growth to 8
percent within three years, from 5.8 percent last year, central
bank Governor Atiur Rahman said in April. The nation will boost
spending by a record 26 percent to an unprecedented 1.63
trillion taka ($21.5 billion), Muhith told lawmakers on June 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arun Devnath in Dhaka at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  