-- 
Bank of America Is Too Much of a Behemoth to Fail: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-10-23T23:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/bank-of-america-too-much-of-behemoth-to-fail-commentary-by-simon-johnson.html
The Obama administration says the
Dodd-Frank financial reform law ends “too big to fail,”
meaning that no financial institution will ever again need to be
bailed out. The promise is alluring, but it’s already proving to
be false.  The argument rests on the premise that bank capital is now
high enough to withstand serious shocks, so a calamity is less
likely. It also assumes that Dodd-Frank’s new resolution
authority allows global financial institutions to be wound down
in an orderly fashion, and that the law’s call for “living
wills” ensures that banks provide all the necessary technical
details regulators might need to take prompt pre-emptive action.  Consider the law’s promise in the context of  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  Through the back door, U.S. regulators are
facilitating another round of implicit bailouts, putting more
taxpayer money on the line in the form of guarantees. Bloomberg
News  reported  on Oct. 18 that regulators have allowed Bank of
America to move highly risky derivatives contracts -- and the
associated downside risk -- from Merrill Lynch into the insured
retail deposit-taking part of the bank.  The move puts the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  on the
hook for any losses. The FDIC’s deposit-insurance funds come
from its member banks, but because the agency can tap a U.S.
Treasury line of credit if the fund runs dry, taxpayers could be
at risk, too.  This condones the continuation, or perhaps escalation, of
taxpayer-backed gambling on a grand scale -- and by people who
aren’t very good at it. The U.S. is heading in the direction of
Western Europe, where state-backed banks repeatedly bring
everyone to the brink of disaster. Consider, for example, UBS
AG’s recent rogue-trading episode.  Bank of America is a behemoth beyond control. The
destruction of  shareholder value  in its recent history is
shocking. The Wall Street Journal reported on Oct. 19 that the
bank has spent $148 billion on acquisitions since 1998 and today
its market value is only about $65 billion.  Bank of America is also a badly managed bank. In 2008, Ken Lewis, then the chief executive officer, agreed to pay about $4
billion to buy Countrywide, a disastrous foray into mortgage
origination and distribution that will probably end up costing
shareholders more than $60 billion.  Eric Schneiderman , the New
York state attorney general, is calling for a full investigation
of mortgage abuses; egregious and allegedly illegal behavior at
Countrywide must be very much in his sights.  Lewis bought Countrywide after a year’s worth of due
diligence -- what was he thinking? -- and then grabbed Merrill
Lynch over a weekend in September 2008, apparently without much
thought. Significant additional losses were the result.  Why the FDIC would agree to escalate taxpayer subsidies now
is a puzzle. According to people familiar with the situation,
the  Federal Reserve  pressed for this move, which required an
exemption from the usual rules. This outrage demands immediate
congressional investigation.  Does Bank of America have enough capital to avert disaster?
From its third-quarter  results , it has $2.2 trillion in assets,
making it the second-largest bank in the U.S. The book value of
its tier-one common equity is about $117.7 billion -- hardly a
robust buffer against the shocks that appear likely from
mortgage litigation and from the European debt disaster.
Investors believe that much of this capital will be wiped out --
hence the lower market valuation.  A large chunk of its most recently reported profit actually
turns out to be due to the decline in the market value of its
debt, precisely because investors realize it is in so much
trouble. This ludicrous application of accounting standards
should raise major flags for regulators.  If Bank of America really had enough capital, it wouldn’t
have needed to move its derivatives risk onto its FDIC-insured
deposit business. Nor would the Obama administration be
strenuously resisting the New York attorney general’s efforts to
organize a full and fair mortgage settlement based on all the
facts.  Could the resolution authority be used on Bank of America?
Definitely not in a way that would bring calm to the markets.
Merrill Lynch is a global business and the resolution authority
is purely domestic. I have discussed this point repeatedly with
U.S. legal and financial experts and with members of the Group
of20 nations. Their opinion on this point is unanimous: The
Dodd-Frank resolution authority doesn’t help manage the orderly
liquidation of a global bank.  There could be a conservatorship, but that is just a long
word for full creditor bailout. Or there could be a bankruptcy,
with the kind of disorganized collapse seen after the failure of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Those are the choices.  Could the living-will provision make a difference? The FDIC
claims it would have handled the problems at Lehman differently
if the Dodd-Frank powers had been in effect and if it had full
and timely information. But the essence of the argument is that
the FDIC would have acted before the problems got out of
control. Given the politics of the regulatory process and the
predisposition of Treasury not to act early, I am skeptical.  So here is a fair test for this part of Dodd-Frank. Bank of
America should clearly be broken up into pieces, spinning off
Merrill Lynch along with other structural changes. Will the
regulators pursue this course of action? Breaking up the bank
would be good for the country, should help stabilize the
financial system and could even create value for its
shareholders.  Such an action would draw support from both the right and
the left. Republican presidential candidates should be drawn to
this position (apart from  Mitt Romney , who has already taken a
lot of money from big banks). So far, the only one to have
identified “too big to fail” as a problem, and  proposed  a
course of action, is  Jon Huntsman .  When will other politicians and regulators awake from their
current complacency?  Bank of America should be forced to break
itself up. Make the pieces small enough and simple enough to
fail. Then let the market decide.  (Simon Johnson, who served as chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2007 and 2008, and is now a
professor at the  MIT Sloan School of Management  and a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, is
a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
 Simon Johnson  at  sjohnson@mit.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Paula Dwyer at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  