-- 
Berlusconi Pressed to Avoid Crisis Contagion

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-10-23T16:06:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/berlusconi-is-pressed-by-european-leaders-to-avoid-debt-crisis-contagion.html
Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  was pressed by European leaders to do more to get the
country’s finances in check to avoid falling victim to the
euro’s debt crisis.  Berlusconi, in Brussels for a summit intended to find a
solution to the crisis, held face-to-face talks today with
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  and European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  before a meeting with German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  “I never flunked” an exam in my life, Berlusconi told
reporters when asked if he was concerned.  The demand for discipline underscored European leaders’
concern of the vulnerability of Italy, which has a debt load of
more than $2 trillion, the most in the world after the U.S. and
 Japan , accounting for 118 percent of its gross domestic product.
The  European Central Bank  started buying Italian bonds two
months ago to contain borrowing costs as yields surged.  Berlusconi said he had a “long” conversation with Merkel
last night at a meeting of European conservative leaders. Asked
whether she was convinced by budget cuts Italy has taken,
Berlusconi said: “I think so.”  The country will meet its deficit targets through 2013,
Italian Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti told Barroso in a 20-
minute phone conversation yesterday, according to the minister’s
spokesperson.  The Italian government passed a 54 billion-euro package of
spending cuts and tax increases in August to convince the ECB to
purchase Italian bonds after the nation’s borrowing costs surged
to euro-era records. The plan aims to balance the budget by
2013.  ‘Among Friends’  Merkel told reporters the meeting today was a
“conversation among friends” and with the leader of “a great
and important partner for the euro area.”  “Confidence won’t result merely from a firewall,” she
said. “ Italy  has great economic strength, but Italy does also
have a very high level of debt and that has to be reduced in a
credible way in the years ahead.”  Asked if he has confidence in the capacity of Italy to
carry out economic reforms, Sarkozy said he has confidence in
the Italian authorities overall.  “Let’s trust the sense of responsibility of the Italian
authorities as a whole,” Sarkozy said at a press conference in
Brussels. He declined to answer a follow-up question about
whether he had confidence specifically in Berlusconi, allowing
Merkel to speak instead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Brussels at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  