-- 
Biden Says 2012 Election Is Choice on Who Offers ‘Better Path’

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-10-23T16:32:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/biden-says-2012-election-is-choice-on-who-offers-better-path-.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  said voters
in the 2012  U.S. presidential election  will face a choice on
which political party offers a better plan to “get the economy
moving. ”  “Whoever is our opponent will be tough,” Democrat Biden
said today on CNN’s “State of the Union.” Voters are “going
to have to decide, and they will decide, whether or not we’re on
the right path or if the other team is offering a better path.
When people begin to focus, I think the choice is going to
become awfully clear.”  Boosting employment is central to galvanizing the  U.S.
economy , Biden said. Democrats began trying to pass President
 Barack Obama ’s $447 billion jobs proposal in pieces after the
Senate blocked consideration of the full plan on Oct 12. The
full plan would expand a payroll tax break due to expire at the
end of this year, increase spending on public works projects and
extend jobless benefits.  Private economists projected the jobs bill would increase
the country’s gross domestic product by 2 percent, Biden said. A
Republican alternative wouldn’t create jobs, according to Biden.  Speaking later on the CNN show, Senate Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell , who has led opposition against the jobs
package, countered Biden’s view of the 2012 elections as a
“choice.”  “It will be a referendum, a referendum on the president
and on his performance,” said McConnell, a Kentucky Republican.
Americans would like to see policy makers get their “house in
order,” McConnell said. The private sector needs the federal
government to “quit spending, quit borrowing, quit over-
regulating and quit threatening to raise taxes,” he said.  Biden, asked whether he’d consider running for president in
2016, said he wasn’t “closing anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  