-- 
Bollywood Exiled by Asia’s Highest Borrowing Costs: India Credit

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-10-23T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/bollywood-exiled-to-spain-by-asia-s-highest-borrowing-costs-india-credit.html
The highest borrowing costs among
 Asia ’s biggest economies are forcing Indian filmmakers to shoot
fewer movies or rely on tax breaks from the U.S. or  Europe .  State-run  IDBI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  lends at 16 percent to studios,
compared with 13 percent for utilities, Executive Director R.K. Bansal said in an Oct. 17 interview. That’s three times more
than six-year funding costs for Burbank, California-based
Legendary Pictures Inc. in June. Bollywood can cut costs by 60
percent by tapping tax breaks or loans overseas, Shah Rukh Khan,
the best-paid Hindi film actor, said on Oct. 14. Mumbai-based
 Eros International Media Ltd. (EROS) 's latest movie shows three bachelors 
flamenco dancing and throwing tomatoes on a road trip in Spain.  Funding costs may rise further in Asia’s third-biggest
economy as the central bank tries to stem inflation by boosting
interest rates to 8.5 percent tomorrow, the highest among the
region’s 10 largest nations, according to the median estimate in
a Bloomberg survey. The number of Hindi-language movies released
this year may drop below 1,000 for the first time since 2004,
from a record 1,325 in 2008, said  Komal Nahta , editor of trade
magazine Film Information.  “The risks have risen for financing films because of the
 interest rates , increasing production costs,” said Bansal of
IDBI Bank, the biggest lender to the  movie industry . “We see no
respite in the near future. It’s not lucrative at all.”  The  Export-Import Bank  of India’s level of outstanding
credit to moviemakers fell 20 percent to 865 million rupees ($17
million) in the year ended March 31, said Mukul Sarkar, chief
manager at the lender, a government-run bank tasked with
supporting global trade.  ‘Suffering Will Continue’  “This business is significantly affected by the rising
costs,” Mumbai-based Sarkar said in an interview on Oct. 17.
“The suffering will continue.”  Movie makers are increasingly using so-called co-production
treaties that India has signed with  Brazil ,  Australia , the U.K.,
 Germany ,  Italy  and  France  to reduce the impact of rising
financing costs, said Khan. His film “My Name is Khan,” about
a Muslim in  San Francisco  at the time of the Sept. 11 attacks,
was co-produced with Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp.  Actress Ursula Andress presented film maker Yash Chopra with 
an award from the Swiss government for boosting tourism revenue 
after shooting sequences of lovers cavorting among its Alpine 
meadows and chalets, according to the  website  of Yash Raj Films.  “These are difficult times and all of us should help each
other,” Khan, who shot his 2001 movie “Kabhi Khushi Kabhi
Gham” in the U.K and plans to make his next movie in Miami,
said in an interview in Mumbai. “With treaties we can make 
bigger and better films.”  Legendary Pictures, the film production company behind
“Inception” and the “Hangover” movies, paid about 4.75
percent on a $200 million six-year loan deal signed in June,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fuel Prices  Wholesale-price inflation in  India  quickened 9.72 percent
in September, staying above 9 percent for a 10th month. Price
growth has been accelerating as the cost of food and fuel
increases.  Oil prices  have climbed 10 percent this month and
India is the world’s fourth-largest petroleum consumer.  The 11 percent drop in India’s rupee, the worst performing
among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies this year, is also
increasing costs for filmmakers. The rupee fell 0.4 percent to
50.0250 per dollar in Mumbai on Oct. 21, after touching 50.32, 
the weakest level since April 2009.  Yields on the government’s 7.8 percent rupee-denominated
notes due April 2021 gained three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 8.82 percent on Oct. 21, a three-year high,
according to the central bank’s trading system. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year bond has climbed 90 basis points in 2011.
Indian rupee bonds returned 2.5 percent this year, the worst
performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt markets monitored
by HSBC Holdings Plc. Chinese yuan debt returned 3.4 percent.  Rising Yields  The difference in yields between India’s notes due in a
decade and similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries was 662 basis
points, compared with a record-high 676 reached on Oct. 3.  In the corporate  bond market , the gap in yields between
India’s top-rated five-year rupee debt and similar-maturity
 government bonds  has widened to 100 basis points, near this
year’s low of 99 basis point set on July 29.  Countries such as  Spain  are banking on an increase in
tourism revenue by attracting filmmakers from India with tax
benefits and lower levies, according to Kamal Jain, chief
financial officer at Mumbai-based Eros International.   Tax Breaks  European tourism officials want to attract India’s middle
class, which according to McKinsey & Co. may to grow to 583
million in 2025, from 50 million people in 2007.  Eros International, which co-produced the movie “Zindagi
Na Milegi Dobara,” along with Mumbai-based Excel Entertainment,
saved as much as 30 percent through tax breaks from Spain when
making the film, Jain said in an interview on Oct. 15.  “Costs have certainly increased in the past few years,
just not for us but the economy as a whole and ways to reduce
them are very few,” Jain said. “As producers, we are looking
at subsidies from more countries. Producers face the same
pressure as that of a machine manufacturer when costs go.”  Amid declining ticket prices, collections from domestic
movie-ticket sales dropped 12.7 percent to 64.5 billion rupees
in 2010, and 13 percent to 81 billion rupees in 2009, Nahta
said.  3-D Boost  The Indian  film industry  may reverse a two-year decline as
producers focus more on 3-D to boost revenue,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said in a report released in July.
The industry will grow 9.3 percent a year until 2015 after a
slowdown of almost 8 percent in 2010, according to
PricewaterhouseCoopers estimates.  The cost of insuring the debt of  State Bank  of India
against non-payment using credit-default swaps has almost
doubled this year. Five-year swaps on the lender, viewed as a
proxy for the nation, cost 310 basis points on Oct. 21, up from
161 basis points at the end of December 2010, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets.  The swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a government
or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “Two years ago we were able to recover the money before a
film was released” as producers signed a lot of marketing
deals, while now lenders have to wait for payment after the
movie is released, IDBI Bank’s Bansal said. “The overall costs
have increased due to inflation and have heightened the risk to
the extent that model of financing has changed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  