-- 
Bond Demand Rebounds as Sales Accelerate From Slow Start: Australia Credit

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-24T03:57:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/bond-demand-rebounds-as-sales-accelerate-from-slow-start-australia-credit.html
Demand at a record sale of
Australian sovereign bonds and the biggest corporate offering
since July shows the nation’s debt market is rebounding from its
slowest start to a month in more than a year.  Investor bids exceeded A$3.5 billion ($3.6 billion) for the
A$3.25 billion of 2027 bonds sold by the government on Oct. 20,
said Citigroup Inc., which helped manage the offering.  Australia 
& New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.’s A$1 billion sale the same day
was the biggest by a borrower without state backing since July,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Confidence is rising among investors around the world that
record exports will help Australia’s economy withstand fiscal
crises in  Europe  and the U.S. Bonds of all types in Australia
have returned 9.1 percent this year on average, more than twice
the 4.3 percent gain for the global fixed-income market, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  “It’s a good sign that there’s reasonable appetite out
there,” said David Carruthers, a senior  money manager  in Sydney
at AMP Capital Investors Ltd., which has about A$30 billion of
fixed-income assets under management. The ANZ Bank deal “shows
that the market remains open for banks,” he said.  Debt sales conducted through banks slowed to A$2.6 billion
in September, the least since May 2010, Bloomberg data show.
Prior to the government and ANZ offerings, issuance in October
was at A$1.3 billion.  Yield Curve Extension  The government’s sale of notes due in 2027 was the biggest
this year after the state of Queensland’s A$4 billion offering
of 2018 securities in February, Bloomberg data show.  Eighty percent of last week’s issue was scooped up by
domestic investors, said James Arnold, the Sydney-based director
of capital markets origination at Citigroup. Banks and fund
managers accounted for more than 65 percent of the orders, while
central banks and government agencies also participated, he
said.  “The government bond sale was very well received and
suggests that domestic fixed-income investors were looking for”
longer-maturity securities, Arnold said. “It gives asset
managers the opportunity to lengthen their investment horizon
and now that you have a government bond out to 2027, it gives
some reference points for other borrowers who might be looking
to do longer-dated issues.”  Record Sale  The bond has the longest maturity for an Australian
government security since a December 1984 sale of notes that
matured Dec. 15, 2000, data from the Australian Office of
Financial Management show. The offering was more than twice as
large as the previous record of A$1.25 billion.  The 2027 security is the only Australian government debt
obligation to yield more than the  Reserve Bank  of Australia’s
4.75 percent benchmark rate, the developed world’s highest. The
note’s yield declined to 4.86 percent at 2:33 p.m. in Sydney
today, after pricing at 4.88 percent, Bloomberg data show. All
bonds out to the one maturing in 2023, which yielded 4.65
percent today, have had rates less than the benchmark since Aug.
9.  Australian government debt has lost 0.6 percent this month,
paring the 9.6 percent gain that made the securities the best
performers among 26 markets tracked by Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes
in the 12 months ended Sept. 30.  Exports Surge  Benchmark 10-year bond yields rose for a fourth straight
week amid signs the nation’s economy is expanding, driven by a
resources boom and record terms of trade, or export prices
relative to import prices. The 10-year rate climbed six basis
points to 4.49 percent and has jumped 48 basis points since
Sept. 23, the biggest four-week advance since June 2009. It was
little changed as of 2:34 p.m. in Sydney today.  The value of Australian exports surged a more-than-forecast
4 percent in the third quarter, a government report showed last
week, while import prices remained unchanged. Sales abroad
totaled A$28.4 billion in August on coal shipments, and the
A$3.1 billion trade surplus was the second-widest on record, the
Bureau of Statistics said Oct. 4.  “The very large nominal income inflows into the Australian
economy that this implies is a key factor underlying the RBA’s
preference to leave rates unchanged,” said Roland Randall, an
economist at TD Securities Inc. in  Singapore . “The other is the
business mining investment boom which also shows no sign of
interruption due to global growth concerns.”  Central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  is likely to keep rates
unchanged for a 12th month on Nov. 1, according to 19 of 25
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Six predict a cut to 4.5
percent.  Futures traders are wagering the RBA’s key rate will be at
4.33 percent by December, up from expectations of 4.11 percent
on Sept. 30. A Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps show
bets the central bank will lower its benchmark by 1.07
percentage points over 12 months from 1.33 at the end of last
month.  ‘Strong Support’  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, traded at $1.0380 today and rose as high as $1.1081 on
July 27, the most since it was freely floated in 1983.  ANZ Bank sold A$1 billion of four-year floating-rate bonds
priced to yield 135 basis points more than the three-month bank
bill swap rate on Oct. 20, according to a statement.  The notes’ “distribution was predominantly to Australian
investors with good Asian support,” said Apoorva Tandon, a
director of syndicate for ANZ Bank, which managed the sale
itself. Asset managers, insurance companies, banks and
government authorities purchased the bonds, he said.  Funding Spread  The spread between the interest Australian banks pay when
borrowing from each other for three months and swaps tracking
expectations for the RBA’s benchmark rose 3 basis points today
to 27. The gap, which is a gauge of banks’ difficulty in
accessing funds, closed at 61 basis points on Aug. 8, the widest
since January 2009.  Germany ’s Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau issued A$250
million of May 2021 notes on Oct. 19 in the first sale of
kangaroo bonds, or debt sold in Australia by foreign borrowers,
since Sept. 2, Bloomberg data show.  The perceived risk of holding Australian corporate bonds
dropped last week. The Markit iTraxx Australia index fell 6.5
basis points to 182.5, according to CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian
corporate bonds instead of government debt was at 249 basis
points on Oct. 21, after reaching 251 the previous day, matching
the most since August 2009, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
show.  Corporate bonds are on course to lose 0.6 percent this
month, a smaller loss than the 0.9 percent on Australian
sovereign securities, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net 
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net 
 Shelley Smith  at   ssmith118@bloomberg.net  