-- 
Cardinals Beat Rangers 16-7 in Arlington to Take 1-Game World Series Lead

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-10-23T05:17:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/cardinals-beat-rangers-16-7-in-arlington-to-take-1-game-world-series-lead.html
Albert Pujols  hit three home runs
and drove in six to power the  St. Louis Cardinals  to a 16-7 win
over the  Texas  Rangers and a two-games-to-one lead in the  World
Series .  Pujols’s home runs in the sixth, seventh and ninth innings
tied the records set by New York Yankee  Babe Ruth  in the fourth
games of the 1926 and 1928 series and Yankee  Reggie Jackson  in
Game 6 of the 1977 series.  “It’s an honor to be named in the same caliber as those
guys,” Pujols, who was hitless in the series until last night,
said in a televised interview. “I didn’t walk into this
ballpark thinking I would have a day like this.”  Game 4 of the best-of-seven series is tonight at Rangers
Ballpark in Arlington, Texas.  Allen Craig hit a solo home run in the first inning to give
St. Louis a 1-0 lead. The Cardinals then scored four runs in the
fourth to make it 5-0.  Michael Young  and  Nelson Cruz  hit home
runs in their half of the fourth for the Rangers’ first three
runs.  Pujols scored on David Freese’s ground out followed by
Yadier Molina’s two-run double in the fifth. The Rangers
narrowed the gap to two runs, 8-6, on Young’s one-run double,
 Adrian Beltre ’s run-scoring single and Mike Napoli’s sacrifice
fly that sent Young home.  In the sixth, Pujols hit a three-run homer and Matt Holliday scored on Molina’s sacrifice fly. Pujols added a two-
run home run in the seventh to widen the Cardinals’ lead to
eight runs before Beltre scored on Napoli’s sacrifice fly for
the Rangers.  Molina hit his second double of the night in the eighth
inning to send home Daniel Descalso. Pujols ended the scoring in
the ninth with his third homer.  431-Foot Hit  Pujols’s sixth-inning home run off Alexi Ogando went 431
feet.  “It was pretty incredible, especially since it was a high
fastball,” Holliday said. “I’ve seen Albert do a lot of
amazing things. This is obviously one at the top of the list.”  Pujols said his team needed that homer after the Rangers
had rallied with a three-hit inning.  “It doesn’t matter how far they go,” Pujols said. “We
just needed a run at that time.”  Lance Lynn allowed one run on three hits and struck out two
in 2 1/3 innings in getting the win for the Cardinals. Starter
Matt Harrison, the loser, gave up five runs on six hits and
struck out three in 3 2/3 innings for the Rangers, who used six
pitchers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  