-- 
China, India Protesters Are the Real `99 Percent’: Pankaj Mishra

-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-10-23T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/china-india-protesters-are-the-real-99-commentary-by-pankaj-mishra.html
In recent days  New York ’s  Occupy
Wall Street  protests have found sympathetic echoes in nearly all
the world’s major metropolises.  From  Tokyo  to Johannesburg,  London  to Mexico City,
demonstrators -- self-proclaimedly 99 percent of mankind, but
mostly belonging to the educated middle class in their countries
-- poured into the streets to express their frustration with
what they see as the built-in inequities of global capitalism.
It’s more than interesting that no significant gestures of
solidarity came from the cities of India and China, two of the
world’s fastest-growing economies.  On the face of it, this is not so surprising. The
metropolitan Indian and Chinese peers of the young occupiers of
Zuccotti Park actually belong to the elite in their respective
countries: the prospering 1 percent rather than the left-behind
99 percent. Their faith in capitalism is still young and fresh;
they bring to it all the zeal of the recent convert.  Researching an article on Chinese intellectuals a few years
ago, I was startled to hear many of them channeling -- as
guilelessly as they once had the wisdom of Chairman Mao -- the
laissez-faire ideology of the Chicago School. In  India , too,
born-again Friedman-ites and Hayek-ians have a much greater
presence than Keynesians in the mainstream press and television.  I suppose one could also argue that India has already had
its popular middle-class upsurge this year: the anti-corruption
movement led by the quasi-Gandhian figure  Anna Hazare , which is
supported by a range of Indian celebrities, including
businessmen and film stars.  China, too, has had its moments of middle-class
disaffection. In July, the train collision on China’s high-speed
rail network near the coastal city of Wenzhou provoked a storm
of online criticism. The following month, tens of thousands of
well-to-do protesters in Dalian, known as the “Bangalore of
China” for its concentration of high-tech businesses, succeeded
in closing down a chemical plant.  Such events, which reveal the frustrations of articulate
and well-connected people, are widely covered in the
international news media. It helps confirm the widespread belief
that economic growth in poor countries inevitably creates a
progressive-minded middle class -- one that is eager to affirm
its rights and to extend them to its underprivileged
compatriots.  This is at least how it seems within the information
ecosystem of the global middle class, which is attuned to the
desires and fears and preoccupations of people who, for
instance, might be reading this column. But there exists outside
this relatively tiny circle a wide range of forceful dissent
among the lower-level toilers of globalization.  The deteriorating condition of the rural poor and urban
workers go largely unreported in the business press in both
India and China, which specialize in adoring accounts of
successful or on-the-make corporate moguls. Nevertheless,
agricultural and factory labor constitute the vast majority of
the workforce in populous countries like India and China.  They are what shape political life in their nations far
more enduringly than the smooth-tongued Tweeters and Facebookers
-- such as those in the Hazare movement -- whose revolution,
however evanescent, will always be televised. Watching India’s
main news channels, you would not realize -- probably because
the protesters don’t carry many banners in English, post videos
of themselves on YouTube or receive endorsements from Bollywood
stars -- that rolling strikes have disrupted production for
months now at  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , which makes nearly half
the cars sold in India.  You would also have no sense of the gravity of the civil
war in central and eastern India, where indigenous groups led by
Maoist militants are battling the police and army across a broad
swath of commodities-rich forests. Elsewhere, in the Indian
villages of Jaitapur and Kudankulam, residents are fiercely
resisting planned nuclear power plants.  China, too, manifests all the symptoms of a highly unequal
society on the boil. In recent months workers demanding better
wages have led strikes across  Guangdong Province . In one of a
series of similar incidents, migrant workers in Guangdong rioted
for days this June after a wage dispute, smashing cars and
setting fire to police cars. Sun Liping, a professor of
sociology at Beijing’s Tsinghua University, told  Bloomberg News 
that  China  this year has had an estimated 180,000 “mass
incidents” in 2010, double the number in 2006. Certainly, the
Communist regime’s wager that continued growth will keep the
masses content seems lost.  The prospects of irreversible economic decline and long-
term unemployment have begun to visibly shake many middle-class
people in rich countries out of their political lethargy. They
have the news media fixated. But, though scantily reported,
political frustration among the Indian and Chinese majority
intensified all through the last decade. This was despite --some
might even say, because of -- record-breaking economic growth in
India and China.  Ruling elites in both countries, democratic and autocratic,
have found that great prosperity for some -- and the endlessly
deferred promise of it to the rest -- is a recipe for political
instability, even violence. Although India and China may seem
the new heartlands of global capitalism, the struggles for
fairness and justice there long predate the Occupy Wall Street
movement, and will continue long after Zuccotti Park has been
vacated.  (Pankaj Mishra, the author of “Temptations of the West:
How to be Modern in India,  Pakistan ,  Tibet  and Beyond,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra in London at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 