-- 
China Must Control Food Prices to Curb Inflation, Sustain Growth, Wen Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-23T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/china-must-control-food-prices-to-curb-inflation-sustain-growth-wen-says.html
China  must continue efforts to
control food and housing prices to ease soaring inflation and
maintain economic development and social stability, according to
Premier  Wen Jiabao .  Authorities must help boost output of farm products,
control the non-food use of corn and increase land supply to
make more residential housing available, Wen said in a  statement 
posted on the central government’s website on Oct. 22.  Wen’s government has tightened lending and boosted imports
of agricultural reserves to keep inflation from derailing growth
in the world’s second-biggest economy. China probably won’t ease
monetary policies until inflation slows to less than 5 percent,
Yu Yongding, a former central bank adviser, said Oct. 21.  “The government has been more flexible in balancing its
tightening policies” with the state of the economy, and the
measures have worked,  Li Qiang , managing director of Shanghai JC
Intelligence Co., the country’s biggest independent agricultural
researcher, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Food prices,
including pork, are trending lower.”  Inflation moderated to 6.1 percent in September after
reaching a three-year high of 6.5 percent in July. Gains in
consumer prices will drop to 5.8 percent by the end of the year,
Yu said. He estimated the inflation rate may be less than 5
percent next year as food and pork prices stabilize.  Farm Incentives  The government will give incentives to maintain animal-feed
prices and increase hog production, Wen said during a trip to
Nanning in southern China’s Guangxi province, according to the
statement. It must strictly control projects that convert corn
to starch and biochemical products, as prices have abnormally
exceeded wheat, he said.  China’s corn imports in 2011-2012 may total 5 million
metric tons, compared with 970,000 tons in 2010-2011, state-
owned researcher Grain.gov.cn said Oct. 21. That would be a
record, according to U.S. government data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The government has shown willingness for more imports”
departing from past policies which resisted overseas purchases,
said Li, who estimated imports in the year that began Oct. 1
will total about 10 million tons.  China needs also to increase land available for residential
projects and properly manage the construction of guaranteed
housing by measures including ensuring capital, Wen said. The
control of the  property market  is at a “critical” period, he
said.  China’s economy  grew 9.1 percent from a year earlier in the
third quarter, the slowest pace since 2009.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  