-- 
Chinese See Communist Land Sales Hurting Mao’s Poor to Pay Rich

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-23T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/chinese-see-communist-land-sales-hurting-mao-s-poor-to-pay-rich.html
Bulldozers razed Li Liguang’s
farmhouse four years ago after officials in the Chinese city of
Loudi told him the land was needed for a 30,000-seat stadium.  What Li, 28, says they didn’t tell him is that he would be 
paid a fraction of what his plot was worth and get stuck living 
in a cinder-block home, looking on as officials do what he never
could: Grow rich off his family’s land.  It’s a reversal of one of the core principles of the
Communist Revolution.  Mao Zedong  won the hearts of the masses by
redistributing land from rich landlords to penniless peasants.
Now, powerful local officials are snatching it back, sometimes
violently, to make way for luxury apartment blocks, malls and
sports complexes in a debt-fueled building binge.  City governments rely on land sales for much of their
revenue because they have few sources of income such as property
taxes. They’re increasingly seeking to cash in on real estate
prices that have risen 140 percent since 1998 by appropriating
land and flipping it to developers for huge profits.  “The high price of land leads to local governments being
predatory,” said  Andy Xie , an independent economist based in
Shanghai who was formerly Morgan Stanley’s chief Asia economist.
“ China ’s land policy is really screwed up.”  The evictions are alarming the nation’s leaders, who have
taken steps to tackle the problem and are concerned about social
stability. Land disputes are the leading cause of surging unrest
across China, according to an official study published in June.
The number of so-called mass incidents -- protests, riots,
strikes and other disturbances -- doubled in five years to
almost 500 a day in 2010, according to Sun Liping, a sociology
professor at Beijing’s Tsinghua University.  Final Insult  There’s more to come. Some 60 million farmers will be
uprooted over the next two decades as the urbanization that
propelled China to the world’s second-largest economy gathers
pace, according to an estimate by the  Chinese Academy of Social
Sciences  in Beijing. In many cases, officials take land they
don’t use, an August report from the academy said.  That was the final insult for Li. The rice and bean plot
his family farmed for generations still lies empty, weeds
sprouting from the red earth. Villagers are convinced that the
city has sold it to developers, even though they can’t point to
any documentation to prove it.  “They flattened the land and still haven’t used it,” says
Li, a wiry man with short-cropped hair, sitting inside the hut
he built in a garbage-strewn alleyway across a main road from
the stadium. “They sold it for I don’t know how many millions
of yuan.”  Officials in Loudi, located in central China in Mao’s home
province of Hunan, wouldn’t answer questions about whether plots
in Li’s village were sold or what they will be used for.  50 Million Evicted  Li is among 50 million farmers who’ve lost their homes over
the past three decades since  Deng Xiaoping  began breaking up
Mao’s collectivized farms to make way for factories, roads and
airports, according to numbers from the academy. Turning people
like him into more economically active citizens is part of an
urbanization policy that has swelled city dwellers to about 50
percent of the population, from 21 percent in 1982, according to
official census data.  Termed “chaiqian” in Chinese, the demolition and
relocation of communities has become increasingly controversial.
Cities have been grabbing land to finance operations and pay
back or restructure mushrooming debt that reached at least 10.7
trillion yuan ($1.68 trillion) by the end of 2010. Almost a
quarter of that is backed by land, according to China’s National
Audit Office.  The money paid for the building spree that was designed to
maintain China’s economic growth in the wake of the global
recession. Loans were obtained through more than 10,000
financing vehicles cities created to get around laws prohibiting
them from borrowing, according to a central bank count.  Low Compensation  Cities may have to accelerate land sales as they struggle
to repay the debt, said Victor Shih, a professor at  Northwestern
University  in Evanston,  Illinois , who studies China’s local-
government finances. There’s also an incentive for officials to
keep payments to farmers as low as possible, he said.  “Without suppressing land compensation, local governments
can’t make the margins to pay back the banks,” Shih said. “In
essence, they are the engines of inequality in China. Land
development is the redistribution of income from average
households to rich households.”  Loudi is one of 186 local authorities from Guangxi on the
Vietnamese frontier in the south to Heilongjiang on the Russian
border in the north that issued bonds or short-term notes
through financing vehicles in the first nine months of this year.
Some 105 of them said they engage in “chaiqian,” according to
their prospectuses.  Rights Violated  The seizures frequently lead to local officials violating
farmers’ rights that the national government has sought to
improve since 1998 when it gave them 30-year tenure over their
land, said Gao Yu, China director for Landesa, a Seattle-based
group formerly known as the Rural Development Institute that
studies global land issues.  Rules that prohibit authorities leaving land like Li’s idle
for more than two years are also often broken, Gao said. Across
China, compensation given to farmers is at least 15 times lower
than prices for land sold to development, according to Landesa.  “The local governments earn a lot of money from the price
difference between what they compensate farmers and villagers
for their land and what they sell to developers,” said Wang
Erping, a scholar at the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing
who studies social unrest. “This is really objectionable, but
these governments don’t have any alternative to raise money.”  Collision Course  Land sales make up 30 percent of total local government
revenue and in some cities account for more than half, according
to  Wang Tao , a Hong Kong-based economist for UBS AG.  That’s putting city bosses on a collision course with
national leaders who were already struggling to contain lending
to local governments and reverse rising property prices. A
central government circular in April said some local governments
took excessive land for property development, resulting in the
forced eviction of farmers. Such evictions are considered a
“gross violation of human rights” by the  United Nations .  President  Hu Jintao  said in August that developers should
stop using arable land for building new projects, while Premier
 Wen Jiabao  in September criticized the role local officials are
playing in land grabs, according to state media.  Premier’s Criticism  “Right now, some areas just brutally destroy farmers’
homes without paying attention to their rights, and put the
farmers in apartment blocks,” Wen, 69, said at a symposium in
Beijing to discuss the safeguarding of China’s cultural
traditions, according to the account in the state media. In
March, Wen called for urbanization to be accelerated.  A crackdown has led to 57 officials being punished for 11
demolitions that resulted in deaths of residents so far this
year, the government said on Sept. 25.  Videos of people being forced out of their homes, sometimes
by gangs wielding sticks, have caused public outrage when posted
online on websites.  One farmer from the city of Fuzhou in Jiangxi province,
first took his anger out on weibo, China’s version of Twitter.
Qian Mingqi wrote that he had lost 2 million yuan because of
inadequate compensation after he said officials illegally
demolished his home to make way for a highway.  Then, on May 26, he detonated three bombs by government
buildings killing himself and two others, the official Xinhua
News Agency reported.  Fuzhou’s investment vehicle went to the country’s bond
market this year for the first time, raising 800 million yuan to
build sewage treatment works and flood control works. In its
prospectus, the company said its main business included
construction, land development and “resettlement.”  ‘Avalanche of Demolitions’  “Forced evictions are one of the biggest sources of public
unrest and public dissatisfaction with the government because
they are unstoppable,” said Phelim Kine, a senior Asia
researcher with New York-based Human Rights Watch. “We’ve seen
an avalanche of forced evictions and illegal demolitions.”  The trend is also exacerbating rural-urban wealth disparity
that Landesa’s Gao says is the greatest challenge confronting
China’s leaders today. Incomes in cities are now more than three
times those in rural areas, wider than at any time since Deng
started economic reforms.  The government is working on ways to increase farmers’
income, Zhou Qiang, the Communist Party secretary in Hunan
Province where Loudi is located, said in an interview in Beijing
on Oct. 19. That includes providing skills training to make them
employable in cities and ensuring farmers are adequately covered
by social security, he said.  Land acquisition and relocation must be done according to
law and there are “clear policy and legal provisions” to
protect farmers’ interests, he said.  Artificially High prices  One problem is that the value of urban land is artificially
inflated because it’s kept scarce by China’s quota of
maintaining 1.8 billion mu (120 million hectares) of arable land,
says analyst Xie.  Officials in Loudi have run up more than 4 billion yuan in
debt, expanding a provincial town into a city of 4 million
people with a new  railway station , six-lane expressway and a
white colonnaded government building.  Where Li and about 70 other villagers for generations
tended plots in Dawu village, now sits the freshly built stadium,
a bulb-shaped gymnasium and a wavy-glass-covered aquatic center
where kids line up to swim.  Family of Nine  Li’s family of nine -- including his wife, first child,
parents and brother’s family -- had lived in a 400-square-meter
two-story farmhouse on almost a half-acre of land. He said he
didn’t worry about feeding them, and he was able to pay for
extras by selling his vegetables a couple times a month in the
city and doing odd jobs.  “It was a reliable income,” said Li. “Before we had food 
to eat. Now if I don’t work as a laborer, we don’t have 
anything.”  Then came the evictions. The sports bureau took about 47
acres of land in Dawu and another village, issuing notices --
and verbal threats -- in 2006 saying it was needed for the
stadium.  “They told us that if we didn’t move, they would send a
lot of people to destroy our house,” Li said. “If you didn’t
agree they would detain you.”  Villagers were initially relocated to the alleyway where
they built shanties with tarp and corrugated-tin roofs. The only
bright notes are the red scrolls bearing the Chinese characters
for good fortune that adorn some front doors.  From the lane, Li can see the stadium gleaming at one end
and new luxury high-rise buildings to the other.  Temporary Home  Li’s shelter was supposed to be a temporary home while he
builds a house on the 70-square-meter (754 sq. ft) plot the city
gave him about 100 meters further south. He said his family of
nine received 280,000 yuan in compensation, not enough to finish
construction of their new home. Unable to get bank loans, he
borrowed 100,000 yuan from family and friends.  That still wasn’t enough, putting Li in a Catch 22: without
a loan he can’t finish his house, and without a house he has no
collateral for a loan.  Most of Li’s income is spent on groceries, he said. Food
inflation in China was running at 13.4 percent in September.  “The renminbi is appreciating everywhere in the world, but
in China it’s depreciating,” Li said one late August evening,
smoking a White Sand cigarette and sipping bootleg liquor in a
restaurant overlooking paddy fields.  Putrid Stream  The only beans the family grows now are cultivated by Li’s
mother on a four-square meter plot behind the temporary home,
where the stench of a putrid bright green stream hangs in the
air. Stooped, with gray hair, she recalls the well water they
had access to before that was so clean she could wash with it.  Officials say the development is benefitting Loudi
residents as it seeks to cash in on its location on a major
high-speed rail route linking  Shanghai  in the east to Kunming in
the west. The stadium was partly funded by a 1.2 billion yuan
 bond issue  in March by the city’s financing vehicle -- Loudi
City Construction Investment Group Co. -- that pledged to repay
with proceeds from selling land.  “People’s lives have improved,” Yang Haibo, an official
at the city’s financing vehicle, said during an interview at his
office in June. Yang wouldn’t talk in follow-up calls and the
company didn’t respond to faxed requests for comment. The city
government also didn’t respond to calls and faxes.  ‘Hoarding Land’  Some Dawu villagers say their lives have gotten worse, not
better.  Wu Zifei, 27 and a father of two, takes out a compact disc
with pictures of his old house one July afternoon in his
family’s store in the new Dawu village. Li likes to play cards
there with friends on days when they can’t find work.  “The older place was much better,” said Wu, a thin man
who waves his arms as he talks. Wu continued to use the old
family plot -- which like Li’s has been left unused behind a
mound of earth at the edge of the stadium construction site --
until June, when a mudslide killed his crop of corn.  “They are hoarding land, waiting for the prices to rise,”
he said. “I really can’t stand the way authorities do things.”  Other Dawu residents say they were left homeless because
they weren’t allocated any city land. Zou Fuqiu’s home was
demolished in 2010, following an eviction order in August 2009.  “It breaks my heart that they demolished my home,” said
Zou, 59, a stout man who rolls his white shirt up above his
stomach to cool himself from Hunan’s mid-summer heat. “It was
the best house in the village, but they didn’t compensate us
accordingly.”  Wife Cried  He went to see the village cadre at his office to plead for
land, where he says his wife sat crying beside him for three
hours. It was no use. Instead, Zou built a shack on unoccupied
wasteland where he hangs two old black and white photos of his
parents in revolutionary jackets and a portrait of Mao, near a
small Buddhist shrine.  “They tore my house down with no regard for where I would
live, but they themselves live in high-class homes,” said Zou
of the officials. Behind him in the dusk, a chandelier turns on
inside one of the stadium buildings.  Loudi city officials work in a building with five white
domes and an archway entrance, nicknamed “the White House” by
locals. There have been two separate purges for corruption in
the past five years, including the removal of 16 officials in
August, according to the official Hunan Daily newspaper.  Hundreds of meters from the main entrance to the building,
a small door has a gold plaque that says petitioners can be
received there. Petitioning is the practice dating from imperial
times by which people take their complaints either to local
officials or directly to the capital.  Low Compensation  The compensation that Dawu villagers say they received
works out at about 6 percent of what the city was selling land
for in 2008, a year after they were evicted. Dawu natives said
they received 38,000 yuan per mu, a Chinese measure of land that
is about one-sixth of an acre. That’s less than half the average
of 85,420 yuan the Loudi city government says it paid, according
to a notice on the website of its land resources bureau.  The land is worth many times even the higher figure. Loudi
city in 2008 sold its land to developers for 600,000 yuan per mu,
according to the bond prospectus. A similar plot to Li’s near
the stadium sold in March for 1.2 million yuan per mu, according
to the website of the city’s State Land Resources Bureau.  It would take Li 92 years to earn enough to buy back his
still-vacant plot at that price based on his present wage rate
as a day laborer.  Daily Struggle  Li’s focus is on the daily struggle to feed his family and
finish his new home. He wishes officials would start building on
his land, giving him the chance to pick up some work. Ultimately,
he hopes to use the home as collateral to borrow money to buy a
digger so he can earn more money at construction sites.  In his hut, where the only decoration is a vase of yellow
plastic flowers and a 2009 calendar celebrating the 60th
anniversary of the Communist state, he laments the loss of his
old, simpler way of life.  “Our house was not like this before,” he said. “Five years
ago I had my own house, and everything surrounding it was mine.”  -- Henry Sanderson , Michael Forsythe. With assistance from Bob Ivry in  New York  and Neil Western in  Hong Kong . Editors: Neil Western, Melissa Pozsgay.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 86-10-6649-7548 or
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net .
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7580 or
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net .
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net 
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  