-- 
Controversial New Virus Tied to Fatigue Not Transmitted by Blood

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 
2011-10-23T00:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/controversial-new-virus-tied-to-fatigue-not-transmitted-by-blood.html
A newly discovered virus that
triggered a firestorm of controversy when it was linked to
prostate cancer and chronic fatigue syndrome isn’t transmitted
through blood, according to researchers.  Tests designed to detect antibodies the immune system would
normally produce to latch on to the virus, known as XMRV, failed
to find solid evidence of transmission, researchers said. They
analyzed 17,249 samples from blood donors.  Officials from  Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , the American Red Cross
and  Gen-Probe Inc. (GPRO)  gathered soon after XMRV was identified in
prostate tumors in 2006 to see if they could find it in the
nation’s blood supply. A later study linked the virus to chronic
fatigue syndrome and found it in blood, though further research
failed to confirm the results. In the latest study, less than 1
percent of the samples were positive for either antibody test,
and none were positive for both, said John Hackett, manager of
emerging pathogens and virus discovery at Abbott.  “We found none that showed convincing evidence of antibody
reactivity to XMRV,” Hackett said in a telephone interview.
“Further actions with respect to XMRV and blood safety are not
warranted.”  One of the original studies linking XMRV to chronic fatigue
led the American Red Cross, the largest U.S. supplier of blood
products, in December 2010 to ban blood donations from sufferers
of the disease. Another study testing blood taken from 150
people with chronic fatigue and 150 without the condition is
under way. Those results are expected by the end of the year.  Worthwhile Endeavor  While the work didn’t yield a new product for the Abbott
Park, Illinois-based company, it was worthwhile, Hackett said.
Abbott already works with academic researchers at the University
of  California ,  San Francisco , and elsewhere to identify and
study novel infectious disease agents, he said.  “ XMRV  is a real virus, there’s no question,” he said.
“The issue is whether it naturally infects humans and causes a
health problem. The reality is that once something is
identified, it takes time to work through the details and come
up with a product that can detect the virus. If it had turned
out there was a need and we weren’t in the field, it would have
taken years longer.”  The study was presented today at the meeting of the
 American Association  of Blood Banks in  San Diego .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  