-- 
Eaton Vance Starts U.S. Leveraged Loan Fund Targeting Australian Investors

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-23T23:21:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/eaton-vance-starts-u-s-leveraged-loan-fund-targeting-australian-investors.html
Eaton Vance Corp. (EV) , a manager of
mutual funds, is starting its first Australian-domiciled fund
that will invest in U.S. leveraged loans.  The fund will primarily buy floating-rate senior U.S.
dollar loans pegged to the London interbank offered rate, Scott
Page,  Eaton Vance ’s Boston-based director of bank loans, said at
a briefing in Sydney. Australian investors transferring the
income back into their own currency will receive Australian
short-term money market rates, plus the yield premium from the
loan investments, he said.  “In the current low-yield environment, floating-rate loans
offer the potential for high income generation, while helping to
reduce overall portfolio duration,” Page said in a statement.
“In today’s challenging market conditions, investors are
looking for ways to maintain their level of income while
managing future risk.”  U.S. non-financial corporate borrowers are better equipped
to withstand an economic contraction now than four years ago
when the last U.S. recession began, Moody’s Investors Service
said in an Oct. 12 report. The high-yield default rate in 2011
will be between 1 percent and 1.5 percent, less than a forecast
of as much as 2 percent,  Fitch Ratings  said Oct. 18. Loans get
repaid before high-yield bonds in a default.  Eaton Vance is targeting growth for its Australian fund to
A$1 billion ($1 billion) within the next two to three years,
Nicholas Allen, the country representative for  Australia , said
at the briefing. The firm managed $26.4 billion of floating-rate
loan assets as of June, according to a presentation distributed
today.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index
added 1.02 cents last week to 90.63 cents on the dollar, the
highest level since Aug. 8. The measure, which tracks the 100
largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged loans, has
climbed from 86.96 on Oct. 5, the lowest since December 2009.  Leveraged loans and high-yield, high-risk debt are rated
below Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  