-- 
Technology Can Nudge Climate Change Politics: Charles Perrow

-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e r r o w
-- 
2011-10-23T23:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/technology-can-nudge-climate-change-politics-charles-perrow.html
Reducing carbon-dioxide emissions is
primarily a political problem, rather than a technological one.
This fact was well illustrated by the fate of the 2009 climate
bill that barely passed the U.S. House of Representatives and
never came up for a vote in the Senate.  The House bill was already quite weak, containing many
exceptions for agriculture and other industries, subsidies for
nuclear power and increasingly long deadlines for action. In the
Senate, both Republicans and Democrats from coal-dependent
states sealed its fate. Getting past these senators is the key
to achieving a major reduction in our emissions.  Technological challenges to reducing emissions exist, too.
Most pressing is the need to develop the know-how to capture
carbon dioxide on a large scale and store it underground. Such
technology could reduce by 90 percent the emissions from coal-
fired power stations. Some 500 of these facilities in the U.S.
produce 36 percent of our CO2 emissions.  But these plants aren’t evenly spaced around the country.
And therein may lie the key to addressing the political and
technological challenges at the same time. If the federal
government would invest in  carbon capture and storage , it could
go a long way toward persuading politicians in every state to
sign on to emission reductions.  I’ll get to the specifics of the technology shortly. But
first, consider how the costs of emission reduction fall hardest
on certain parts of the country: A carbon tax levied on all
major sources of released CO2, the approach favored by most of
the environmental community, would make energy from coal-fired
 power plants  cost more. To make a significant difference, such a
tax would have to amount to $60 a ton.  Midwest Carbon Footprint  As a result, gasoline prices would rise 26 percent, and
natural gas for household usage by 25 percent, nationwide. Rich
and urbanized states could probably tolerate this. The West
Coast, with its hydroelectric power, and the Northeast, which
relies to a large extent on natural gas, could most easily
absorb the associated increase in energy costs.  But the price of energy in the rural, Midwestern states
would more than quadruple because of their large carbon
footprint. Midwesterners get most of their electricity from
coal; they drive relatively long distances to get to work,
shopping and entertainment; and rural homes and buildings use
more energy for heating and cooling.  One carbon-tax proposal now being considered is a “cap and
dividend” plan that would send the  tax revenue  back to all U.S.
citizens equally. But that would also favor the rich states that
are less dependent on driving and coal.  It would be more helpful for the coal-dependent states if
the federal government would use revenue from a carbon tax to
help develop the technology for carbon capture and storage.  And that brings us to the technological challenges: No
plant of any size with the capacity for  CCS  yet exists, but it
has been demonstrated to work at small scales. Three different
processes for capturing the CO2 are being tested, and scaling
them up for 500-megawatt or 1,000-megawatt facilities should be
possible.  For two years, the Mountaineer plant in  New Haven ,  West
Virginia , has been capturing and storing a tiny amount of its
CO2 -- 2 percent of it -- but plans to build a full-scale
carbon-capture plant here have been abandoned. Because Congress
has dropped any idea of imposing a tax on carbon emissions, the
investment doesn’t make sense.  A large plant in Edwardsport,  Indiana , was being
constructed with the expensive gasification process that makes
it easy to add carbon-capture facilities, but it, too, has been
shelved.  China  may finish its large demonstration carbon-capture
plant before the U.S. gets any model up to scale. Others are
planned in  Europe , and a small one is operating in  Germany . This
plant has been unable to get permission for underground storage,
so it is selling some of its CO2 to soft-drink companies and
venting the rest.  Subterranean Storage  Storing captured CO2 is eminently possible, too. For 15
years, the  Sleipner facility  in  Norway  has been storing 3
percent of that country’s CO2 underneath the ocean floor, with
no appreciable leakage. Algeria has a similar facility, the In
Salah plant, operating in the desert.  One storage strategy under consideration in the U.S. is to
inject captured CO2 into huge basalt formations off both the
east and west coasts. Inside the basalt, the carbon gas would
gradually turn into bicarbonate of soda.  There are other ways to dispose of carbon dioxide. It has
been used for enhanced oil recovery for many decades without any
danger, and has been effectively stored in depleted oil
reservoirs. (The gas is dangerous only in high concentration.)  It remains uncertain how much of the captured CO2 might
leak during storage. Even if this were as much as 10 percent,
however, it would mean that 90 percent of it would stay
underground.  As CCS technology develops, it will have to be made more
efficient so that it uses less energy. As it is, the capture
phase is expected to require that a power plant burn 20 percent
to 25 percent more coal than it otherwise would.  The technological challenges may explain why energy
companies haven’t lobbied for subsidies to develop CCS. The
electric-energy sector isn’t known for innovation and risk-
taking. Just look at the U.S.’s outdated power grid.  But the federal government could pay for the subsidies
through a tax on carbon. Such a levy would have other
advantages, too: It would raise the cost of energy to reflect
the damage that burning coal and oil now do to the environment,
and spur the development of renewable sources.  If states with large carbon footprints can’t accept such a
tax, the CCS subsidies could be paid from the general fund.  The
cost to build coal-fired power plants with CCS technology is
estimated to be about $5 billion to $6 billion -- about the
price of a single nuclear power plant. The total price for the
U.S.’s 500 large plants would be $250 billion. That’s as much as
the planned modernization and expansion of our missile defense
system over 10 years.  But it would slash our  carbon emissions  by at least 20
percent. There is no other politically possible way to cut CO2
as much, and as quickly -- in a decade or two. And devastating
 climate change  is far more likely than a missile attack.  U.S. investment in CCS technology could also induce China
and Europe to follow suit. And this would allow the world time
for renewable-energy technologies to mature -- to the point
where we could do away with coal burning altogether.  (Charles Perrow, an emeritus professor of sociology at  Yale
University , is the author of “Normal Accidents” and “The Next
Catastrophe.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Charles Perrow at  charles.perrow@yale.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 