-- 
EU Pushes to Solve Debt Woes as Merkel Damps Expectations

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-10-23T12:24:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/european-leaders-start-last-ditch-push-to-end-debt-crisis-safeguard-banks.html
European leaders started the 13th
crisis summit in 21 months seeking a breakthrough over how to
stamp out the Greece-led debt shock that threatens to tip the
world into a recession.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  of Germany, Europe’s dominant
economy, played down the odds of an agreement today to beef up
the euro bailout fund, cut Greece’s debt without triggering a
default, shield banks from the fallout and insulate  Italy  and
 Spain  from the turmoil.  “Today one shouldn’t expect decisions,” Merkel told
reporters before the Brussels summit. She spoke of “a
technically complex process” with the aim of forging a
comprehensive strategy at the next summit in three days.  With President  Barack Obama  and Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao 
piling on the pressure, Europe’s room for maneuver narrowed
after a report showed Greek finances worsening. Measures on the
table include writedowns of as much as 50 percent on Greek debt,
100 billion euros ($139 billion) in fresh capital for banks and
the pooling of two rescue funds to deliver as much as 940
billion euros to contain the crisis.  After meetings at EU offices, luxury hotels and a suburban
Brussels nature park yesterday, the scene shifted to EU
headquarters today for a session of all 27 EU leaders. It is
slated to end around 3 p.m., to be followed by a meeting of the
17 euro leaders that will stretch into the evening.  France  Rattled  The mayhem began in Greece in October 2009 with the
revelation that its finances were worse than previously
reported. Since then, 256 billion euros of bailouts have failed
to stem the tide, which rattled France this month, prompting
 Standard & Poor’s  to warn it may lose its top  credit rating .  France’s banks can cope with a Greek debt writedown of
about 50 percent, Budget Minister Valerie Pecresse said on
France 3 television today. She said banks can boost capital
“using their own resources,” falling back on the government
only as a last resort.  On a European scale, finance ministers yesterday tabbed
banks’ needs at about 100 billion euros in capital after marking
sovereign-debt holdings to market values, said a person familiar
with the discussions. This amount is needed to reach a core tier
1 capital level of 9 percent based on a European Banking
Authority test, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the talks are continuing.  ‘Chilling Effect’  “The crisis in the  euro zone  is having an effect on all
our economies, Britain included,” U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said today. “It’s having a chilling effect. We need to
deal with this issue.”  Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  took center
stage late yesterday in trying to defuse German-French tensions
over how to get more out of the 440 billion-euro rescue fund,
the European Financial Stability Facility.  Afterward, Merkel was spotted sipping white wine with top
aides in the bar of the Hotel Amigo a block from Brussels’
gabled main square. Sarkozy, staying at the same hotel, went
straight to his room.  The German and French leaders held a pre-summit meeting
today with Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , an Italian
official said without disclosing the outcome. Merkel and Sarkozy
plan to brief the press before the start of the euro-area summit 
later today, a spokesman for Sarkozy said.  Finance ministers searched for other ways to leverage the
EFSF after  Germany  and the  European Central Bank  rejected French
calls for the fund to morph into a bank with the ability to
borrow from the ECB.  ECB Bond Purchases  Narrowing the options for expanding the fund’s reach,
ministers discussed setting up an EFSF-insured pool to entice
outside investors including sovereign wealth funds to buy
troubled euro-area  government bonds , said a person familiar with
the matter.  The special pool was weighed alongside the option of
extending the EFSF’s coverage by offering 20 percent to 30
percent insurance on new bond sales by countries like Italy.  The fate of bond purchases by the Frankfurt-based ECB is
also up in the air. The central bank has bought 165 billion
euros of bonds, overriding opposition from Germans on its policy
council.  Central bankers have expressed reluctance to step up the
purchases, which started with  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  last
year and widened to Italy and Spain in August as those markets
came under attack.  Dissenting Footnote  “One shouldn’t demand more from the ECB than it can
achieve according to its statutes,” Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann said today.  Central bankers are at the center of the dispute over
writedowns for Greek bondholders. A reminder came on Oct. 21
when the ECB put a dissenting footnote into an assessment of
Greece’s finances that envisioned writedowns as high as 60
percent.  That report, co-authored by the ECB, European Commission
and  International Monetary Fund , said Greece’s finances have
“taken a turn for the worse” and called for bondholder losses
that go beyond the 21 percent negotiated in July.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said two years of
austerity have stretched citizens’ tolerance, calling on the
rest of  Europe  to live up to its responsibilities.  “We are a proud people, we are a proud nation, we demand
that respect,” Papandreou said today. “But it’s been proven
now that the crisis is not a Greek crisis. The crisis is a
European crisis. Now is the time that we as Europeans need to
act decisively and effectively.”  Greek Loan  Officials are considering five scenarios to update the July
agreement on losses for bondholders, people familiar with the
deliberations said. They range from sticking with a voluntary
swap to a so-called hard restructuring that forces investors to
exchange Greek bonds for new ones at 50 percent of their value,
the people said.  Finance ministers on Oct. 21 signed off on the payout of
the EU’s 5.8 billion-euro share of an 8 billion-euro loan to
Greece. It’s the sixth installment of a 110 billion-euro package
awarded in May 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Brussels at  aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  