-- 
Fernandez on Course to Landslide Re-Election in Argentina Vote

-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-10-23T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/fernandez-on-course-to-landslide-re-election-in-argentina-vote.html
Argentine President  Cristina
Fernandez de Kirchner  is likely to be re-elected by a landslide
today as voters reward her for economic growth that has masked
mounting imbalances caused by double-digit inflation.  Argentines may give Fernandez the biggest percentage of
votes in a presidential race since Juan Domingo Peron returned
to power in 1973 after a two-decade-long exile. The Peronist
party leader had 53 percent support in an Oct. 4-13 poll taken
by Giacobbe & Asociados, 36 percentage points ahead of her
closest challenger, Santa Fe province Governor Hermes Binner.  The 58-year-old president, who has overseen annual economic
growth averaging 5.6 percent since 2007, is also expected to
regain control of Congress, which she lost after threatening to
raise taxes on farm exports in 2008. She’ll need the extra
political muscle to tame consumer price increases that
independent economists say are accelerating 24 percent annually
and close a fiscal gap fueled by a surge in spending.  “The margin of victory will be historic,” said Mariel
Fornoni, director of Buenos Aires-based pollster Management &
Fit. “The government managed to win allies in the past with a
very low approval rating, so now it will be even easier.”  Polls open at 8 a.m. (7 a.m.  New York ) and close at 6 p.m.
Voting is mandatory for the 29 million people eligible to cast
ballots.  Argentines have rallied behind Fernandez as the country’s
economic expansion reduced unemployment to a record low of 7.2
percent in the third quarter and fueled a boom in consumption.
Shopping center sales rose 34 percent in August from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in eight months.  Default Risks  Even as Argentines are busy buying cars and flat-screen
televisions, investors remain wary of  South America ’s second-
biggest economy a decade after its default on $95 billion of
bonds. Traders see a more than 40 percent chance that Fernandez
will stop payment on the country’s debt in her second four-year
term. The cost of insuring against default for five years rose
406 basis points to 1,016 this year. The increase is the biggest
in the world after  Greece ,  Portugal  and  Pakistan .  Argentines pulled $9.8 billion out of the country in the
first half of this year compared with $11.4 billion in all of
2010, as the debt crisis in  Europe  worsened and prices for grain
exports to  China  fell. The capital flight led the central bank
to sell $2.7 billion of reserves in August and September to
control declines in the peso.  24% Inflation  A  budget surplus  left by Fernandez’s late husband and
predecessor,  Nestor Kirchner , has turned into a shortfall as the
government boosted spending on social programs and subsidies to
keep energy and transport costs low. Economists estimate that
inflation is running at 24 percent, more than double the 9.9
percent reported by the national statistics agency in September.  Fernandez hasn’t signaled how she’ll address the economic
challenges in a second term. An easy victory may be taken as a
sign that no major policy changes are needed, BNP Paribas said
in a report last week.  “We need to correct what we have to correct and improve
what needs to be improved,” Fernandez, wearing a black dress
that’s become her staple outfit since her husband’s death from a
heart attack a year ago, told supporters at a campaign rally
Oct. 20 in  Buenos Aires .  Against the worsening economic outlook, Argentina hasn’t
regained access to global credit markets since its 2001 default.
Fernandez restructured almost $13 billion in bonds outstanding
from the default last year, yet creditors holding about $4.5
billion are pursuing payment in court. Without being able to
sell bonds abroad, Fernandez has tapped central bank reserves to
make payments on debt and plans to use $5.7 billion in savings
next year for the same purpose.  Paris Club  The country hasn’t allowed the  International Monetary Fund 
to review its finances, as it does for every other member
country, since 2006. It’s also failed to reach an accord with
the Paris Club group of creditor nations to settle claims on $9
billion in defaulted bonds.  “Is the central bank going to finance us for the rest of
our lives or will we resolve differences with the Paris Club and
IMF?,” said Maximiliano Castillo Carrillo, a former manager of
macroeconomic analysis at  Argentina ’s central bank who now runs
ACM, a Buenos Aires-based research company. “What we want to
see is some kind of path.”  In addition to electing their next president, voters will
choose governors for Buenos Aires and other provinces as well as
half of the 257-seat lower house and a third of the 72-member
senate.  Poverty Plan  A lawyer and mother of two, Fernandez has built popular
support by creating monthly stipends for families who keep their
children in school and supporting wage increases that have
helped reduce poverty to 20 percent from as high as 54 percent
in 2003, said Artemio Lopez, a political analyst who runs
Consultora Equis in Buenos Aires.  “The improvement in employment and the social welfare
plans have eased the impact of raising prices,” said Lopez.  She’s also benefited from an outpouring of sympathy
following Kirchner’s death. By softening the confrontational
rhetoric of her longtime political partner, she’s turned his
haggling with the IMF and foreign investors into a virtue, said
Fabian Perechodnik, a political analyst at Poliarquia
Consultores. Later this month, supporters in the couple’s home
town of Rio Gallegos hope to erect a statue of Kirchner where
one of Argentina’s 19th century patriarchs is currently located.  “She’s built a political narrative that resonates with
people about their recent past.” Perechodnik said in an
interview in Buenos Aires. “To younger voters especially, she’s
a symbol of resistance, of having stayed the course even amid a
great deal of international pressure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  