-- 
Ferrari Adds Cashmere for Drivers Demanding Unique Dress: Cars

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-10-23T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/ferrari-adds-cashmere-for-customers-who-can-t-be-seen-in-same-dress-cars.html
Ferrari SpA has begun offering
personal touches like cashmere-covered seats and gold-colored
exteriors for customers who find that cars like the $410,000
620-horsepower 599 GTB aren’t quite special enough.  The “tailor made” personalization program, which started
last month, aims to add 20 percent to 60 percent to the price of
a car as the  Fiat SpA (F)  unit looks to pad profit after capping
deliveries, according to the Maranello, Italy-based company.  “Being different is important for Ferrari buyers as these
cars are all about status,” said  Rebecca Lindland , a IHS
analyst in Norwalk,  Connecticut . “It’s like showing up to a
gala in the same dress -- funny at first, annoying if it keeps
happening.”  Ferrari is looking for new sources of profit as it limits
sales to 7,000 vehicles annually to guard its elite appeal. The
supercar maker anticipates reaching that mark this year after
selling about 6,500 autos in 2010. The additional lift from the
personalization program will help shore up Fiat, which is
integrating Chrysler Group LLC, as an economic slowdown
threatens a turnaround at its money-losing European business.  Fiat leans on Ferrari as a source of cash to offset falling
earnings in mass-market cars. The supercar unit may record an
operating profit equivalent to 16.6 percent of sales in the
third quarter, compared with a 1.3 percent margin at Fiat Auto,
including the profitable Brazilian operations, Mediobanca
analyst Massimo Vecchio estimates. Fiat is scheduled to post
results on Oct. 27. Ferrari’s operating profit rose 23 percent
to 302 million euros last year.  ‘100 Percent Unique’  “The exclusivity of the materials and the service level we
provide call for a different price,” Nicola Boari, Ferrari’s
head of product marketing, said in an interview last month.
“The customer has a car that is 100 percent unique because it
reflects his choices.”  Ferrari, the Italian automaker’s most profitable unit,
wants to maintain the elite appeal of the “Cavallino rampante”
supercars by ensuring scarcity, Chairman Luca Cordero di Montezemolo said last month. Sales will only exceed 7,000 if the
waiting list extends beyond 18 months, he said. The “absolute
limit” on production is 10,000 vehicles, Fiat Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Marchionne  told Automotive News Europe.  The strategy contrasts with Porsche SE. The Stuttgart,
Germany-based maker of the iconic 911 sports car aims to add a
second sport-utility vehicle as it looks to double deliveries to
at least 200,000 autos by 2018.  Last ‘Defense’  Customization programs have become a growing business for
high-end automakers, as the wealthy continue to treat
themselves, even as the broader economy slows.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Maybach, which starts at $372,500, offers more than 2 million
combinations of color, leather and accessories, such as an
interior perfume atomizer and hand-braided seat piping.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s Rolls-Royce customizes about
90 percent of the orders for the $380,000 Phantom. It started
its Bespoke program for the $246,500 Ghost this year, with
personalization now approaching half of those vehicles,
spokesman Andrew Ball said. The Munich-based carmaker will make
the revamped 3-Series more customizable by offering three
styling packages, when the sedan goes on sale in February.  “We shouldn’t be too surprised to see carmakers inventing
new ways to charge more,” said Simon Empson, the managing
director of U.K. auto website Broadspeed.com. “Personalization
and individualism are two of the only defense mechanisms
available,” said Empson, who previously owned a Ferrari
Daytona, which ceased production in 1973.  Personal Designer  The Italian sports-car brand designed three collections to
help its clients personalize their vehicles. Classica recalls
the historical Ferrari GT cars and offers vintage leather
interiors. Scuderia, inspired by Formula One racing, includes
interior accents from high-tech materials such as Kevlar or
carbon fiber. Inedita highlights modern materials and colors and
tracks fashion and other trends, including denim interiors.  For an extra touch, Ferrari buyers can visit a special
Atelier at the Maranello headquarters, where they will be
accompanied by a personal designer who will assist them in
styling their car, Boari said.  By restricting production and developing programs for the
wealthiest consumers, Ferrari may further insulate itself from
the economy, unlike Fiat.  “Our heavy reliance on the depressed Italian market is
causing a depressed market share in  Europe  and that won’t go
away until that market recovers,” Marchionne said Oct. 19 in
Turin,  Italy . “There’s no sign of any substantial recovery.”  Resilient Profits  For its part, Ferrari targets “significant” results this
year, boosted by cars like the new $361,000 four-seat FF. It
shrugs off the threat of a slowdown.  “I’m not worried because we have quality, exclusivity, a
strong brand and innovative technology,” Chairman Montezemolo
said in an interview last month.  Sales of the top ultra-luxury brands, including  Aston
Martin , Fiat’s Maserati and Volkswagen AG’s Lamborghini and
Bentley, are projected to rise 19 percent to 28,090 vehicles
worldwide this year, seven times the 2.7 percent increase in
overall auto deliveries, according to IHS Automotive.  “It’s important to highlight the resiliency of Ferrari’s
results even in a recession scenario,” said Gabriele Parini, a
Milan-based analyst with UniCredit, who recommends buying Fiat
shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  