-- 
Flooding in Southeast Asia May Cause Food Shortages, UN Says

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-10-23T02:41:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/flooding-in-southeast-asia-may-cause-food-shortages-un-says.html
Communities in parts of Southeast
Asia face “serious food shortages” after flooding devastated
rice paddies and other crops since the start of September and
aid deliveries are disrupted, the  United Nations  said.  About 12.5 percent of rice farmland in Thailand has been
damaged, along with 6 percent in the  Philippines , 12 percent in
Cambodia, 7.5 percent in Laos and 0.4 percent in  Vietnam , the UN
Food & Agriculture Organization said in an Oct. 21 report.  Crop losses may help sustain a 17 percent rally in rice
futures in  Chicago  this year, adding pressure on food costs, and
creating more problems for government leaders across Asia, where
the grain is the main staple, said Lynette Tan, an analyst at
Phillip Futures Pte. The UN Food Price Index of 55 commodities
including cereals, meat, sugar and dairy rose to a record in
February.  “Given that flooding in  Thailand  is not really getting any
better, we see that going forward, there could be some room for
prices to go up,” Tan said by phone from Singapore today.  Thailand, the world’s largest rice exporter, was forecast
to account for 31 percent of the 34.2 million metric tons of
 global trade  of the grain this year, according to the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture . Vietnam is the second-largest shipper,
according to the USDA. The Philippines was the largest buyer
last year.  Prices Jump  Rough-rice for January delivery rose 0.5 percent to close
at $16.715 per 100 pounds on the Chicago Board of Trade on Oct.
21. The export price for the 100 percent grade B Thai white rice,
the benchmark in  Asia , gained 1 percent to $625 per metric ton
on Oct. 19, taking gains this year to 13 percent.  Thailand may lose 6 million tons of rough-rice from
flooding, paring the main harvest to 19 million tons, Apichart
Jongskul, secretary-general of the Office of Agricultural
Economics, said Oct. 21. The damage estimate does not include
rice stored in warehouses that have been submerged in
floodwaters, he said.  Thailand’s main harvest, which typically accounts for 70
percent of annual production, was forecast by the government at
25.8 million tons before the floods.  The Philippines lost almost 600,000 tons of milled rice
from typhoons that struck the country, Lito Banayo,
administrator of National Food Authority said Oct. 20. That’s
equal to almost 17 days of demand, according to Bloomberg
calculations, based on the national daily consumption.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  