-- 
U.S. Economy Probably Picked Up in Third Quarter on Consumer Spending Gain

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-10-23T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/gdp-probably-picked-up-in-third-quarter-u-s-economy-preview.html
The  U.S. economy  probably grew in
the third quarter at the fastest pace this year, easing anxiety
that the recovery was on the verge of stalling, economists said
before a report this week.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, rose at a 2.5 percent annual rate after advancing 1.3
percent in the previous three months, according to the median
forecast of 68 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
Commerce Department’s Oct. 27 release. Orders for business
equipment rose in September and new-home sales stabilized, other
data may show.  Consumer spending  last quarter may have climbed more than
twice as fast as in the prior three months, helping the economy
withstand the plunge in stocks caused by  Europe ’s debt crisis.
Nonetheless, the pace of growth has failed to cut unemployment,
prompting  Federal Reserve  officials like  Janet Yellen  and  Daniel Tarullo  to say that more monetary stimulus may be needed.  “We’ve gotten a reversal of some of the bigger shocks that
really restrained growth in the first half of year,” said
Michael Hanson, a senior U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp.
in  New York . “The economy could grow at the rates we see now or
even better if we could avoid some of the shocks from Europe and
the uncertainty around U.S. fiscal policy.”  The economy expanded at a 0.9 percent rate in the first
half of 2011, the weakest since the recession ended in June
2009. The risk that one or more of the countries in the  euro
zone  would default helped trigger a plunge in stock values. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 14 percent in the third
quarter, the worst decline since the final three months of 2008.  With data showing growth has picked up, shares have
climbed. The  S&P 500  is up 9.4 percent so far this month.  Consumer Confidence   The rebound may be helping household sentiment. The
Conference Board’s consumer confidence gauge climbed in October
for a second month, rising to 46.5 from 45.4, according to the
median projection in a Bloomberg survey before the New York
group’s Oct. 25 report. Even with the gain, the measure is close
to a two-year low as unemployment hovers around 9 percent.  “We continue to be cautious with respect to the magnitude
and pace of the economic recovery both here in the U.S. and
abroad and about the level of consumer confidence,” Todd Teske,
chairman and chief executive officer at  Briggs & Stratton Corp. (BGG) ,
said on an Oct. 22 conference call with analysts.  Sales for the quarter ended Oct. 2 at the world’s largest
maker of engines for outdoor power equipment rose 19 percent
from the same three months in 2010, led by purchases of portable
generators.  Gasoline Prices  Cheaper energy costs may have helped Americans spend on
other goods and services in August and September even amid
diminished confidence. The cost of a gallon of gasoline at the
pump was $3.43 at the end of September, down 7.5 percent from
the July high of $3.71, according to AAA, the largest U.S. auto
organization.  Consumer purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, increased at a 1.9 percent annual pace from July
through September after gaining 0.7 percent in the second
quarter, according to the median projection ahead of the
Commerce Department’s GDP release.  Corporate investment in new equipment may have also
contributed to the acceleration in growth last quarter. A report
from the Commerce Department on Oct. 26 will show a 0.4 percent
rise in September orders for durable goods excluding
transportation equipment, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  New-Home Sales   The same day, another report from the Commerce Department
may show new-home sales increased in September to a 300,000
annual rate from a six-month low 295,000 pace in August, a sign
the industry is struggling to gain its footing.  Yellen, the Federal Reserve’s vice chairman, said on Oct.
21 that a third round of large-scale securities purchases may be
necessary to boost the economy and spur hiring. A day earlier,
Fed Governor Tarullo, said the central bank should consider
resuming large-scale purchases of mortgage bonds to help combat
a “crisis” in employment.  The residential real estate industry, since 1982, has aided
every economic recovery except the current one that began in
June 2009.  The Fed’s Open Market Committee announced Sept. 21 a plan
to replace some debt in the central bank’s portfolio with
longer-term Treasuries in an effort to cut borrowing costs.
Central bankers also said they would reinvest maturing housing
debt into mortgage-backed securities. Housing weakness is a key
reason for the “frustratingly slow pace of the recovery,” Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said during a Sept. 8 speech.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  