-- 
Gerhard Richter’s Dark Past, Zen Clouds Intrigue at Tate: Review

-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 
2011-10-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/gerhard-richter-s-somber-past-zen-clouds-intrigue-at-tate-martin-gayford.html
Painting, according to some, has
long been as defunct and deceased as Monty Python’s parrot.  That doesn’t stop this allegedly ex-art form carrying on
regardless. The big new exhibition “Gerhard Richter: Panorama”
at  Tate Modern  in  London  presents a life time’s tally of
powerful and beautiful works all executed in the traditional
manner. Their subject is the death of painting and the
disappearance of meaning. That’s what makes them so modern.  Richter, born in Dresden in 1932, has been producing
paintings for more than half a century in, essentially, two
modes. His pictures are either based on photographs or they are
abstract. Both are idioms with a long history.  The camera has been affecting painting for centuries,
perhaps since before photography itself was invented. It seems
virtually certain, for example, that Vermeer used a
prephotographic technique in the mid-17th century, looking at
his subjects through a camera obscura.  Richter is highly conscious of Vermeer as a predecessor; he
made the connection clear with “Reader” (1994), which echoes the
Dutch master’s pictures of women reading. Vermeer’s works are
filled with a sense of transcendent calm. The light is
spiritual. In contrast, Richter’s photo-based art is concerned
with how much significance the camera lens misses. Among his
early works are several based on family snapshots such as “Aunt
Marianne” (1965), a teenage girl with a baby on her lap.  Nazi Uncle  There are dark secrets lurking here. The baby casting a
sour look at the camera is the infant artist with his Aunt
Marianne, who suffered from mental problems and was killed in an
extermination program; smiling “Uncle Rudi” (also 1965) wears a
Nazi uniform. Richter accentuates the smudge and blur, the
arbitrariness of what the lens happens to see. Those out-of-
focus blotches have a bleak beauty of their own.  Sometimes, his fascination with chance shapes blends into a
Zen-like contemplation of nature. It’s difficult not to react to
his almost photo-realist triptych of “Clouds” (1970) as if to an
altarpiece. They float in front of you like a revelation. Except
that it’s clear there is no more deep import in these wisps of
vapor than in a Rorschach blot. Obviously, there’s another
demise involved -- announced in the 19th century like that of
painting -- the death of God.  Landscape painting, in the hands of Turner or the German
romantic painter Caspar David Friedrich, acquired an almost
religious force. Their seas and transcendental mountains suggest
a divine presence. Friedrich is another predecessor Richter
acknowledges. But to Richter, nature is alien, if not hostile.  Power of Paint  If some of Richter’s work is meticulously naturalistic,
another large part is blankly abstract. He seems fascinated by
the way paint can produce visual power in the absence of meaning
or even conscious intention. A good deal of his abstract
painting is about randomness.  When making “4096 Colors” (1974), he took the primary
colors, mixed 1,024 shades from them, and put those down four
times each in neat little squares. The result pops with energy
even if the system that produced them was mechanical (Damien Hirst’s spot paintings owe a lot to Richter).  Since the early 1980s many of his abstracts have been
worked over with a squeegee, which he uses to smear, drag and
erase what he has done. Still, they shimmer with light like a
Monet.  The twist is that this beauty has been made by messing
around with pigments. What you see is all there is. The
emptiness at the heart of Richter’s world can seem melancholy,
though paradoxically his work demonstrates that -- at least for
painting -- there is life after death.  “ Gerhard Richter : Panorama” is at Tate Modern, London,
through Jan. 8, 2012. The exhibition will travel to the Neue
Nationalgalerie, Berlin, (Feb. 12-May 13) and to the Pompidou
Center, Paris, (June 6-Sept. 24). Information:
 http://www.tate.org.uk ,  http://www.neue-nationalgalerie.de ,
 http://www.centrepompidou.fr .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. His most recent book is “A
Bigger Message: Conversations With  David Hockney .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in London at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 