-- 
I Liked to Sell the World a Coke (Part 1): Neville Isdell

-- B y   N e v i l l e   I s d e l l
-- 
2011-10-23T23:00:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/i-liked-to-sell-the-world-a-coke-part-1-neville-isdell.html
Coca-Cola was losing the
 Philippines , where failure might have been the beginning of the
end of our global business. By 1981, the nation was the world’s
10th-largest soft-drink market, but Pepsi had a 2-to-1 market
share and the Coke bottler, owned by the Soriano family’s San
Miguel Corp., warned that it could no longer sustain its losses
unless Coke shared the burden.  John Hunter, head of Coca-Cola Philippines, hammered out an
agreement with the Sorianos to buy 30 percent of the bottling
operations for $30 million. At the time, it was Coke’s largest
foreign investment.  Roberto Goizueta, the new chairman and chief executive
officer, went to the board -- composed of Southern gentlemen,
many of an advanced age, who sometimes nodded off during
meetings. I don’t know how he persuaded them to invest in a
country run by dictator  Ferdinand Marcos , whose power was
eroding, but Goizueta did, although some dubious board members
chose to abstain from the vote.  Next, Hunter convinced the Sorianos that the new joint
venture needed me as its president and controller. The challenge
was to prove that I was running the company for the benefit of
both groups of shareholders without being adversarial to either
side. This was a risky venture, and I had much to lose.  Hunter’s view was that, over time, the franchise model
could work well in the Philippines. Coca-Cola’s profit margins
on sales of concentrate are wider than the bottlers’ margins.
Yet bottling can be an excellent business if you build the
brand.  We’re No. 1  I believe that, when the Good Lord created the world, he
created Coke as No. 1 and Pepsi -- referred to in our offices
only as “the Imitator” -- as No. 2. Coke’s Philippines problem
was fixable. That wasn’t just blind faith, even though 18 Coke
bottling plants were run down and some should have been closed.
(On a quality scale of 1 to 100, Coca-Cola plants in the country
measured 29.) Pepsi was simply more aggressive -- but lacked
discipline.  When we first arrived, Marcos had just been re-elected,
although conditions were about to deteriorate. The dictator
suffered from lupus and looked quite unhealthy, but his wife,
Imelda, was lively. During a social meeting, she proposed a
toast to the partnership between Coca-Cola and the Sorianos,
mixing  San Miguel  Beer and Coke, half and half. We reluctantly
followed her lead, mixing the same unsavory drink.  At some point in the meeting, someone dropped a chair on
the parquet dance floor, and I saw the three security teams --
Coca-Cola’s, San Miguel’s and Imelda’s -- go for their weapons.
Luckily, there was no gunfire.  I couldn’t control the big-picture politics in the
Philippines. So I focused on getting to know the culture:
Interestingly, expats are able to live, to a degree, within
Filipino society. In  Japan , you are rarely invited to someone’s
home. But in the Philippines, it’s not unusual. There is a level
of integration that I haven’t seen anywhere else in  Asia .  The Philippines is a place where people’s family, military
and school allegiances are much stronger than their bonds with
employers. Certain phrases were worth keeping in mind. There
was, for instance, “Utang na Loob,” which means obligation and
translates as: If I do you a favor, you are expected to do one
in return. There was the word “pakikisama,” which means
getting along, avoiding confrontation when first meeting
someone.  In business situations, another truth made itself known:
“Yes” often meant, not “I agree with you,” but only “I hear
you.” The worst thing any of us non-Filipinos could do was to
get annoyed and say, “You agreed to do this.” I was in their
culture and had to understand the way it works.  A Cultural Interpreter  I decided to hire a Filipino manager, a cultural
interpreter. John Hunter recommended Jesus Celdran (aka King
King or King2). Ultimately, we became inseparable, even though I
was in my 30s, and he was about 20 years older. King King could
understand what I was trying to do, but was able to say, “That
doesn’t work here.”  An example: sales incentives. We had 10,500 employees. I
thought that, instead of giving them a $200 bonus, we could
actually give them a refrigerator worth $400 because we could
buy the appliance at cost. “No, boss. That doesn’t work,” King
King told me. He explained that when a salesman wins a $200
bonus, it goes into his back pocket. It’s his play money, unlike
his salary, which he hands to his wife. In the Philippines, the
wife handles the money and basically gives an allowance to her
husband. My plan was abandoned.  In one of my first meetings with management, I addressed
another sensitive cultural issue, expat salaries, which were
much higher than those of the Filipino execs. I explained to my
Filipino direct reports that this was necessary to attract
foreign talent. “If you disagree,” I told the Filipinos, “you
shouldn’t be part of the team. … Absent that one difference, we
are one team.”  I began the process of modernizing the bottling plants and
energizing the sales force. But there was also the matter of
advertising, normally the purview of Coca-Cola executives in
Atlanta. The campaign at that time was “Have a Coke and
Smile.” With Pepsi outselling us 4-to-1 in Manila, I wanted a
change.  Pepsi had  Michael Jackson , so we developed a series of
commercials with Filipino stars. It could have been considered a
violation of company rules, but Tony Eames, then region manager,
got us exempted. As there was only one bottler in the
Philippines, it made sense for a representative of the Sorianos
to collaborate with us during storyboard development. This
allowed him to reciprocate by accepting my input in other areas.
It was a great lesson on how the franchise system should work.  Mindanao Strategy  King King, Tony and I traveled almost every weekend,
hopping from one island to the next. King King had great
credibility in Mindanao as a hero of World War II -- he had
served with the guerrilla forces as an intelligence officer
behind Japanese lines -- and he had a facility for languages. On
Mindanao, two insurgencies were under way, one led by the
communist  New People’s Army  and the second by the Moro National
Liberation Front. And yet, this was Coca-Cola’s strongest
market.  Pepsi made a major mistake in failing to attack our
customer base there. Since we had a strong lead, we could charge
higher prices and use these profits to combat “the Imitator”
in  Manila . If Pepsi had used that strategy against us in
Mindanao, it would have strangled our top profit center.  Wherever we traveled, we would hold sales rallies with
music, good food, San Miguel beer and theatrics. I would
sometimes smash a Pepsi bottle against the wall of a bottling
plant to rev up the troops. In one town, the local bottling
manager arranged for us to ride to one of the rallies on a tank.
Appealing to the country’s militaristic fascination, we created
a sales team called “Tiger Force,” and played the song “Eye
of the Tiger” from the film “Rocky III.”  To this day, when I hear it, I am energized. I feel all
over again the thrill of the fight. This was business war. When
we launched Mello Yello, billed as “the World’s Fastest Soft
Drink,” I led the salesmen in calisthenics -- doing push-ups on
the stage. Then we’d run around the plant.  I find it useful to look at our business through the lens
of our competitor. To that end, I took the team to the
Intercontinental Hotel in Manila, where they entered a room
decorated with Pepsi posters. There were Pepsi T-shirts and ice-
cold Pepsi. Then, I conducted an all-day session designed to
detect the weaknesses in the Pepsi system. Workers got honest
assessments of their flaws and strengths.  Roberto Goizueta, the Coca-Cola CEO, helped our cause,
flying in for a visit to Manila. It was interesting to see
Roberto, who is Cuban, in his Latin mode. The Sorianos were
Spanish Filipinos, and they bonded with Goizueta completely. At
an evening party, we all did the “tinikling,” a Filipino
dance. Never underestimate the power of social interactions,
team sports or cocktails.  Bottle Sizes  At the end of my first 12 months, Coca-Cola was increasing
its market share, led by the energized sales force and Mello
Yello. New packaging also helped. Pepsi had been selling a 12-
ounce bottle for the same price as an 8-ounce one. San Miguel
had lacked the capital to convert to 12-ounce bottles, but Coca-
Cola’s investment made it possible, and so a plan was hatched to
convert to the larger size.  I said no to a complete conversion, partly because I knew
Pepsi couldn’t continue to sell the 12-ounce drink at its
current price; inflation would deflate their profits. Plus,
keeping the 8-ounce bottle reduced the number of new 12-ounce
bottles we had to produce, saving us money. And, because
manufacturing capacity for the new bottles was limited, keeping
the 8-ouncers meant that we could accelerate, by at least a
year, the debut of the 12-ouncers.  The strategy paid off. Our profits increased along with our
share of the market. In response, Pepsi brought in a new team of
expats. They committed the sin that I had tried to avoid:
sitting around at the Manila Polo Club, drinking beer and
complaining about the Filipinos. This is what happens when
management is disconnected; you get alienation all around and
little understanding of the market or the customers.  In 1983, Coca-Cola took the lead in the Philippines. We
built a new bottling plant in Manila and significantly upgraded
four other facilities. By 1984, Coke sales had increased 11
percent, despite a 5 percent drop in soft-drink sales across the
country. What’s more, I had gotten used to the humidity.  But then Coke sent me to colder climes. I was off to West
 Germany  to head the company in  Central Europe .  (Neville Isdell was a force at Coca-Cola for more than 30
years, assuming the role of chairman and chief executive officer
in 2004, after working for the company in  Zambia ,  South Africa ,
 Australia , the Philippines,  Russia , Germany,  India  and  Turkey .
This excerpt, the first of two, from his memoir, “Inside Coca-
Cola: A CEO’s Life Story of Building the World’s Most Popular
Brand,” written with David Beasley, to be published Oct. 25 by
St. Martin’s Press. The opinions expressed are his own. Read
 Part 2 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Neville Isdell at  dbeasley4@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  