-- 
Jude Law Tempted by Call Girl, Anthony Hopkins Mourns in ‘360’

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-10-23T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/jude-law-tempted-by-call-girl-anthony-hopkins-mourns-in-360-.html
A skinny brunette from Slovakia
poses for a photographer-pimp so she can become an escort girl
and make some easy money.  Her first customer is a married  London  businessman by the
name of Michael played by Jude Law in “360,” which opened the
 London Film Festival . Minutes before she meets him in a Vienna
hotel bar, however, the guilt-ridden Michael runs into a
business partner, and calls it a night.  Michael’s missed rendezvous triggers a chain of
transcontinental events in “360,” directed by  Brazil ’s Fernando Meirelles. (He previously made “The Constant Gardener” and “City
of God.”)  The film grew out of scriptwriter Peter Morgan’s urge to
portray the borderless, contagion-prone world we live in. It was
inspired by two recent plagues: the global financial meltdown
and the swine-flu epidemic.  “To say ‘the world is flat’ is such a commonplace now,”
Morgan said at a festival news conference. The screenwriter --
previously credited for “The Queen” and “Frost/Nixon” --
described the plot of “360” as “a viral romantic connection.”  “360” raises an intriguing philosophical issue: A chance
encounter can shake up multiple lives. Yet that single point is
conveyed in seven languages and seven international settings,
making the movie seem, at times, like a higher-brow version of
the multinational  Eurovision  song contest.  Busy Rose  The character played by Law proves pivotal to the plot.
After walking out on the prostitute, he eats alone, and calls
his wife Rose (Rachel Weisz). “I’m sitting in a restaurant
wishing you were here,” he whimpers in a voicemail message.  Rose, meanwhile, is busy cheating on him with Rui, a well-
built Brazilian photographer. He, in turn, has a live-in
girlfriend. Each of these characters, and half a dozen others,
undergoes some kind of life change as the movie unfolds.  In the end, everybody is connected to everybody else. The
film is strongest when that connection is revealed.  The best acting is not where you’d expect it.  Anthony Hopkins , who plays an ex-alcoholic desperately looking for his
missing daughter, is overly sentimental.  The Slovak and Russian actors lend the film its
authenticity. They convincingly represent life’s everyday
burdens: bleak prospects, a failing marriage, an abusive boss.  Two other cast members deserve special mention:  Ben Foster ,
as the repentant sex offender freshly released from jail; and
the French-Moroccan actor-comedian Jamel Debbouze, in the role
of a lovelorn widower.  In its portrayal of intersecting lives, “360” recalls the
work of another filmmaker: Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu, who made
“Amores Perros,” “21 Grams” and “Babel.” Inarritu definitely
does interconnectedness better.  The problem with “360,” as with most transcontinental
movies, is that the director bites off more cultures than he can
chew. It’s bad enough steering actors in one foreign language.
When it’s half a dozen, you end up with a muddle that seeks but
fails to be all things to all people.  Rating: **1/2.  The London Film Festival ends on Oct. 27. Information:
 http://www.bfi.org.uk/lff . The festival’s sponsors include
 American Express Co. (AXP)  and American Airlines Inc.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London on 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff on 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 