-- 
King Urged by U.K. Lawmakers to Keep Liquidity Support for Banks

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-10-23T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/king-urged-by-u-k-lawmakers-to-keep-liquidity-support-for-banks.html
U.K. Lawmakers wrote to  Bank of
England  Governor  Mervyn King , warning that regulators risk
putting the recovery in peril if emergency liquidity programs
set up during the 2008 financial crisis are withdrawn too fast.  Banks are facing worsening funding conditions as a result
of extra  capital requirements  and the euro-region debt crisis,
making them cautious about lending, Treasury Committee Chairman
 Andrew Tyrie  said in the letter, which was also sent to Hector Sants, chief executive officer of the Financial Services
Authority.  “None of this is to say that banks should not, in due
course, be weaned off extraordinary official liquidity support.
They should be,” Tyrie wrote. “But attempting to do it too
quickly, in a hostile international economic environment, could
risk setting economic recovery back for benefits that are
unclear.”  He added: “If that were to happen a second crisis might
come to be seen as having been aggravated rather than alleviated
by the actions of regulators.” The letter was released by the
Treasury Committee in  London  today.  The central bank’s 185 billion-pound ($295 billion) Special
Liquidity Scheme, which provided banks with a key source of
funding during the credit crunch, is being wound down and is due
to close in January, forcing banks to buy back their illiquid
securities. King has resisted call from banks to prolong the
program.  Bank lending was down 7 percent in August from a year
earlier and “the squeeze on bank liquidity is running the risk
of continued credit contraction,” Tyrie wrote.  ‘Difficult Conditions’  The Bank of England last month said lenders continued
to repay funds from the SLS “despite difficult market
conditions.” At the end of August, 168 billion pounds had been
repaid, up from 148 billion pounds at the end of May.  King fought demands from the government to provide
liquidity support in 2008 when credit markets froze because he
did not want to reward banks for their reckless behavior, former
Chancellor of the Exchequer  Alistair Darling  said in his memoir,
“Back from the Brink,” published last month.  Darling said he became “increasingly frustrated” at
King’s resistance to the point that he sought legal advice from
Treasury officials to force him to support the banks.  King will appear before the Treasury Committee on Oct. 25
to explain the bank’s decision to add 75 billion pounds to its
asset-purchase program this month to aid the economy.  “Quantitative easing may be a good policy but it does
little to increase the supply of liquid assets to banks,” Tyrie
wrote. “A number of ideas have been put forward as a means of
relieving the liquidity squeeze” and the central bank’s
Financial Policy Committee should consider whether any of them
need to be used.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  