-- 
All Blacks Break 24-Year Rugby World Cup Drought By Winning Closest Final

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-10-23T13:36:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/new-zealand-leads-france-5-0-on-woodcock-try-at-rugby-world-cup-halftime.html
  New Zealand  beat France 8-7 in the
closest-ever  Rugby World Cup  final, ending a run of five
failures at the championship of its national sport.  Tony Woodcock ’s 15th-minute try and a second-half penalty
from fourth-choice fly-half Stephen Donald at Auckland’s Eden
Park last night gave the All Blacks their second world title.
France had gotten within a point through Thierry Dusautoir’s
converted 47th-minute try after Donald’s penalty.  By joining  Australia  and  South Africa  as two-time Webb
Ellis Cup champions, top-ranked New Zealand ends nearly a
quarter century of letdowns -- including upset losses to France
in 1999 and 2007 -- since winning the inaugural edition over Les
Bleus in 1987.  “It’s been a long time coming,” All Blacks coach  Graham Henry  said. “To win means everything. We have been the No. 1
team for a long time and it is nice to be able to hang in there
and get the job done under pressure.”  The 1987 victory was followed by defeats in a final, three
semifinals and a quarterfinal as the All Blacks failed to
convert a 75 percent winning record -- the best in international
rugby -- into success at the sport’s top event.  It was the lowest-scoring title match in the history of the
four-yearly tournament, eclipsing Australia’s 12-6 win over
 England  in 1991, and the smallest margin of victory. South
Africa in 1995 and England in 2003 won their finals by three
points.  Fireworks, Ticker Tape  The final whistle triggered scenes of jubilation at  Eden
Park , where New Zealand extended its winning run to 27 matches.
When All Blacks captain Richie McCaw hoisted the Webb Ellis Cup
into the air on the presentation stage, the moment was met by a
cacophony of fireworks, pyrotechnics, ticker tape and cheers.  “We had to dig deeper than ever before and it’s hard to
get it to sink in,” said McCaw, who played through the
tournament with a foot injury that restricted his training. “We
couldn’t have been under more pressure at times but we stuck to
our guns and got there in the end. It’s a great day to be a
Kiwi.”  France, the only team in seven editions to play for the
championship after losing two group games, becomes the first
nation to lose three finals following defeats in 1987 and 1999.  “We were lucky in the previous rounds,” Dusautoir, who
was voted as the man of the match, said at a news conference.
“Tonight we were not lucky. That’s sport.”  Prop Woodcock scored the only points of a first half during
which both teams lost their fly-halves to injury and All Blacks
scrum-half Piri Weepu missed two penalties and a conversion that
would have put his team up 13-0 at the break.  Injured Fly-Halves  France No. 10 Morgan Parra had to go off after taking a
knee in the face when trying to tackle center Ma’a Nonu.  New Zealand’s Aaron Cruden, who was thrust into the main
playmaker’s role following injuries to first-choice  Dan Carter 
and his backup  Colin Slade , went off with a leg injury in the
after being tackled by Francois Trinh-Duc, who had come on as
a 23rd-minute replacement for Parra.  Cruden’s injury handed Donald, who had been whitebait
fishing when he got called up to the squad as a replacement for
Slade on Oct. 10, his  World Cup  debut in the final.  “It’s been an interesting seven weeks,” Donald said. “To
be out there at Eden Park in the middle of a World Cup final is
pretty extraordinary. At the time I didn’t think my kick would
be that important but as it turned out it was a pretty
significant one.”  Woodcock's Burst  Woodcock got the first points when he burst over from an
attacking lineout from five meters out after blindside flanker
 Jerome Kaino  jumped and guided the ball down to him.  Weepu, who missed with a fifth-minute penalty that he
pulled to the left of the post, also put the conversion wide.
The scrum-half again failed to find the target for the third
time in the 26th minute after a French infringement at the
breakdown.  Trinh-Duc came closest to scoring for  France  in the first
half. He put a long-range drop goal attempt wide and was stopped
on a run to line by Weepu’s tap tackle.  Dimitri Yachvili missed a penalty for France at the start
of the second half before Donald put the All Blacks up 8-0 in
the 46th minute. France then cut the gap to a point when open-
side flanker Dusautoir crashed over near the posts, allowing
Trinh-Duc an easy conversion.  Weepu kicked the re-start out on the full and was
substituted by  Andy Ellis  straight away.  With 15 minutes to go, Trinh-Duc missed with a penalty
attempt from 49 meters and New Zealand then managed to repel the
French through 18 phases that ended with the home team winning a
turnover. The All Blacks made a total of 111 tackles to 87 by
their opponents.  Forward Control  After getting their hands on the ball, the All Blacks
forwards ran down the clock. Referee Craig Joubert’s penalty for
the home team with 90 seconds remaining was greeted with a roar
from the crowd of 61,079 at Eden Park.  Second-rower  Brad Thorn , playing in his final match for New
Zealand before going to play in  Japan , took the ball cleanly
from the ensuing lineout. The French were penalized for offside,
allowing Ellis to belt the ball out to end the game.   The All Blacks finished the 20-team tournament with a
perfect record, vindicating the decision from New Zealand Rugby
Union officials to reappoint Henry and his assistants after the
team fell to its earliest World Cup exit four years ago by
losing to France in the quarterfinals.  Last night’s victory was New Zealand’s 88th in 103 elite
Tests since Henry, a former Auckland school headmaster, took
charge eight years ago.  “It’s great for him,” All Blacks No. 8 Kieran Read told
reporters. “The character of the man is huge and he’s had a
massive influence over the direction we’ve taken since 2007. It
couldn’t happen to a better man.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Eden Park, Auckland at  dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  