-- 
Online Poker Should Be Dealt a Fresh Hand With Regulation: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-23T23:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/online-poker-should-be-dealt-a-fresh-hand-with-regulation-view.html
The odds of winning the  grand prize 
in the Powerball lottery are 1 in 195,249,054. State
governments, by and large, encourage participation in this
monopolistic enterprise, even though it randomly rewards a very
few people with a very large amount of money for doing very
little.  Oddly, most states, and the federal government, consider
wagering online on a card game -- in a fair fight, against other
players of varying skill -- a moral outrage.  A small but growing number of states are considering
legalizing online poker within their borders, hoping to increase
 tax revenue . An intrastate approach may lead to useful
innovations, but it would limit competition among gambling
operators and restrict the available pool of customers for a
given service to in-state players. It would also result in a
crazy patchwork of regulation for an online activity that is
inherently interstate.  To maximize the benefits of  Internet gambling , and reduce
its many dangers, federal legalization and regulation is the
best option.  Current federal law is poorly conceived. In 2006 Congress
ostensibly outlawed most online wagering under the Unlawful
Internet Gambling Enforcement Act, an unclear and hurriedly
assembled framework that for years left many players under the
impression that online gambling was illegal but tolerated. It
prevented businesses from knowingly accepting payments for
“unlawful” gambling, but didn’t clearly define what was
unlawful, or specifically address poker.  Then, in April 2011, the  Justice Department  indicted the
founders of the three biggest  poker sites  open to U.S. players
with  money laundering  and bank fraud, alleging that they were
illegally disguising their gambling profits.  U.S. players have been abandoning Internet gambling ever
since. The number of online U.S. poker accounts has declined
from 2.03 million to about 490,000, according to a report
prepared for Bloomberg View by  H2 Gambling Capital . (It’s
expected to drop further as accounts expire at the end of the
year.) And the U.S. share of the global market has declined from
49 percent in 2006 to a paltry 7 percent today.  Which is a shame: The benefits of regulated online
gambling, for American budgets and businesses, are substantial.
Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a Democrat of  West Virginia ,  has said 
that regulating and taxing online gambling would yield budget
savings of $41.8 billion over 10 years for the federal
government, and $30 billion for states.  Not to mention that many of the offshore operators to which
U.S. gamblers have turned in recent years are poorly regulated
and possibly criminal -- witness the saga of  Full Tilt Poker , a
popular gambling site that the Justice Department recently
alleged was running a $440 million “global  Ponzi scheme ” in
which owners dipped into player accounts to enrich themselves.  Far better for the industry to be legalized in the U.S. and
subject to uniform regulations that would prevent cheating,
ensure operators are licensed, protect minors, enforce loss
limits to mitigate excessive risk-taking, and require that taxes
are collected and equitably shared among the states.  This approach would allow a transparent U.S. market in
online gambling to grow, subject to strict and predictable
regulation. And it would recognize that the future of the
gambling industry -- just like the future of retail or
entertainment -- will be online. That’s nothing to fear. It
offers far better odds for success than a lottery ticket.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 