-- 
Louisiana’s Jindal Wins Second Term as Governor in Open Primary

-- B y   A n d r e a   R i q u i e r
-- 
2011-10-23T11:59:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/louisiana-s-jindal-wins-second-term-as-governor-in-open-primary.html
Bobby Jindal , a Republican who
championed stronger ethics laws in his first term as  Louisiana 
governor, won re-election against nine other candidates in an
open primary, according to the  Associated Press .  Jindal earned 65.8 percent of the vote in yesterday’s
ballot, negating the need for a November general election,
according to the AP, which declared him the winner. Tara Hollis,
a Democrat and schoolteacher making her first bid for public
office, came in second with 17.9 percent of the vote, with 100
percent of precincts reporting.  Jindal, 40, is the first Indian-American governor in the
nation. He was elected on promises to change the state’s
reputation as a nest for corruption. Within months of taking
office, he won approval for laws prohibiting public officials
from holding state contracts and requiring them to disclose
information about their personal finances.  The New Orleans Times-Picayune endorsed Jindal for re-
election this month for those efforts as well as for his
management of hurricanes, including Ida in 2009 and Lee in 2011,
and the 2010 BP Plc oil spill in the  Gulf of Mexico .  Jindal has cut taxes and supported outsourcing government
services to private companies. Louisiana’s jobless rate of 7.2
percent ranks below the national average of 9.1 percent.  Democrats outnumber Republicans in Louisiana 44 percent to
41 percent, according to Gallup data. Tens of thousands of New
Orleans residents, who traditionally voted Democratic, were
displaced after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005.  A poll conducted by WWL-TV on Oct. 5 gave Jindal an
approval rating of 63 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Riquier in New York at 
 ariquier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stacie Servetah at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  