-- 
Real Grievances Fuel Occupy Wall Street Protests: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-10-23T15:01:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/real-grievances-fuel-occupy-wall-street-protests-albert-r-hunt.html
The anti- Wall Street  movement has
confounded Republicans, Democrats and analysts alike.  The take on the right is that Occupy Wall Street is the
same old riff-raff of leftist anarchists, unlike the grassroots
conservative Tea Party; seen from the left, it’s an authentic
uprising against the huge income disparity in America and a call
for redistributing the wealth.  Actually, it is part of a combustible global protest that
goes beyond the professional rabble rousers. There is a focus on
 income inequality ; “Tax the Rich” is a favorite slogan. The
protesters are diverse and seemingly directionless.  Income and wealth inequality in America have been growing
for decades with little public outcry. The catalyst for the
movement now is that during the worst financial crisis since the
Depression, there is a perception that Wall Street and the
wealthy were taken care of while average folks suffer. That
isn’t a fringe view.  Wall Street generally has flourished since the government
rescue of 2008 and the big banks have posted record profit and
booming bonuses. Although Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reported a
rare quarterly loss last week,  Lloyd Blankfein , its able
chairman and chief executive officer, was paid $19 million for
his work last year, up 50 percent from the year before. JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s  Jamie Dimon  was awarded $23 million in
compensation. A prime target of the protesters in  New York  is
 John Paulson , the hedge fund billionaire who made a fortune
betting on the mortgage debacle, assisted by a sweetheart deal
from his banker.  Taxpayer Resentment  In good times it’s considered class warfare to rail against
successful leaders who’ve added value. There have been few
complaints about the wealth that accrued to Microsoft Corp.’s
Bill Gates, Apple Inc.’s Steve Jobs or Jack Welch of General
Electric Co. When taxpayers directly facilitate that success and
firms then lavish massive payouts on executives, it would be
naïve not to expect public resentment.  One of the critics of the Wall Street demonstrations cited
a survey showing that three-quarters of the protesters favored
higher taxes on the rich. In major U.S. media polls -- by the
Wall Street Journal/NBC News and Bloomberg News/  Washington  Post
-- two-thirds of the public agree.  American politicians are dancing around the issue. Two
Republican presidential candidates,  Ron Paul  and  Jon Huntsman ,
said the anti-Wall Street protests have struck a responsive
chord. The frontrunner,  Mitt Romney , initially blasted the anti-
Wall Street rallies as “dangerous” and “class warfare.”
Within a week, he said he understood “how these people feel.”  ‘Really Dumb Ideas’  Newt Gingrich  said the protests were a “natural outcome of
a bad education system teaching them really dumb ideas.” Then,
in a debate at Dartmouth College two weeks ago, he was asked
whether anyone should have gone to jail for their role in the
crisis. His answer: not Wall Street executives, but Congressman
 Barney Frank  of Massachusetts and former Senator Chris Dodd of
Connecticut.  Gingrich cited the mortgage Dodd obtained from Countrywide
Financial Corp., the failed mortgage-lending company. The former
senator may have gotten generous, though totally legal, terms;
 Angelo Mozilo , the chief executive officer of Countrywide, who
Gingrich didn’t mention, had to settle a Securities and Exchange
Commission suit alleging  securities fraud  for misleading
investors even as he made $140 million through stock sales and
was driving his company into the ditch. It was the fact that
Mozilo and his ilk created devastation for so many people and
walked away free and rich that fuels so much of the populist
sentiment.  Contributions to Democrats  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee recently
urged its supporters to back the Occupy Wall Street protests.
This gave heartburn to the committee’s fundraisers who rely
disproportionately on the financial community for donations.  President  Barack Obama , who has raised millions from Wall
Street, has sought to embrace the protesters, saying they are
“giving voice to a more broad-based frustration with how our
finance sector works. The American people understand that not
everybody’s been following the rules.”  Who sets the rules today? There are reasons Democrats
aren’t entirely comfortable identifying with the anti-Wall
Street crowd.  For all the corporate griping about reregulation, the Obama
administration in 2009, led by White House economics aide  Larry Summers  and Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner , eschewed a hard
line on Wall Street and was soft on excessive  executive
compensation .  The other fear is that the Occupy Wall Street protests
could get out of hand, turn violent, creating a political
backlash. That occurred during the anti-Vietnam War protests a
couple of generations ago.  Tea Party  Echoes  There have been a few raucous or ugly scenes, and there are
remnants of the radical left; anti-Semitic signs have been
spotted.  It’s instructive to look back at the Tea Party, circa 2009.
They disrupted congressional meetings, and their ranks included
kooks, vestiges of the old John Birch Society, and racist
sentiments surfaced.  Ultimately the movement got smarter and provided an
infusion of energy for Republican candidates in the 2010
elections. After that success, the popularity of the Tea Party
steadily declined.  No one knows if the Occupy Wall Street movement will chart
a similar course. A visit to the protest’s Washington’s outpost,
in McPherson Square, is illuminating. There are more than 100
tents pitched and there are some characters who resemble
disciples of Che Guevara. On a small bookshelf, there’s a copy
of “Das Kapital.” That same bookshelf has a copy of David McCullough’s biography of Harry Truman and of “The Gamble,” a
book on the Iraq war by noted defense author Thomas Ricks.  ‘Moment of Possibility’  There are a few Ron Paul-supporting libertarians, and there
are people like Hillary Lazar, an earnest 33-year-old anti-
poverty worker. She says the crash and its aftermath
crystallized an American economic, social and political dilemma.  “Our political system is beholden to powerful corporations
and financial interests, and the current system of wealth and
income distribution is unimaginable,” she says. Rather than
despair, Ms. Lazar insists, this is “a moment of possibility.”  When a cold Washington winter arrives, most of these tents
are likely to fold up. It’s not as likely that the sentiments
will disappear.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for Washington at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 