-- 
Republicans Woo the Occupy Wall Street Vote: William D. Cohan

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-10-23T23:01:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/republicans-woo-the-occupy-wall-street-vote-william-d-cohan.html
We all know politics makes strange
bedfellows. But how about this odd combination: the  Occupy Wall
Street  protesters and a unified group of Republican presidential
hopefuls?  As hard as it may be to believe, these two otherwise
opposed groups seem simpatico in their abject disdain for the
 Federal Reserve System , and both seem to want it seriously
reformed.  The Occupy  Wall Street  crowd takes its Fed ire to the belly
of the beast on Monday. At 11 a.m., the protesters will
congregate around the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , on
Liberty Street, in downtown  Manhattan . It would be hard to 
beat the New York Fed -- a stolid, Italian Renaissance behemoth
just north of Wall Street itself -- as a symbol of American
capitalism.  It also is a fine place to stage a rally, because the New
York City police won’t let Occupy Wall Street anywhere near Wall
Street these days; their encampment at Zuccotti Park is several
blocks from the New York Stock Exchange. (By contrast, on Oct.
15, protesters in  London  were allowed to rally in front of the
 London Stock Exchange , although there were plenty of bobbies
around.)  The New York Fed was the site of any number of nail-biting
weekend meetings during 2008 when  Tim Geithner , then the head of
the bank and now the secretary of the Treasury, joined with  Hank
Paulson , his predecessor at Treasury, and  Ben S. Bernanke , then
as now the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board of Governors.
They made the momentous decisions to first rescue Bear Stearns
Cos. and then to save the rest of Wall Street, except for Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc., which they let fail.  Realistic Goals  “The Federal Reserve Bank is another problem that’s added
to our melting pot of problems,” the anonymous organizers of
the rally wrote on the Occupy  Federal Reserve   Facebook page .
They continued, with less than 100 percent accuracy: “It
controls and regulates all our money, and the increasingly high
tax rates YOU are paying is what we owe them! And they aren’t
even Federal; The US Federal Reserve Bank is privately owned. We
will never get out of debt unless we stop them!”  At least the movement is realistic in its goals for the
gathering. “We of course realize we can’t stop such a big bank
in one rally,” the Web page notes. “But this is to inspire
people to speak out. We are part of the WALL ST rally. Be a part
of the next big thing. Let your voice be heard!”  It is doubtful that any of the Republican presidential
candidates will show up at the  New York  Fed on Monday morning --
but if their ongoing criticism of the Federal Reserve generally,
and Bernanke in particular, is to be believed they might be
welcomed with open arms.  For instance, when former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney was asked at the  Bloomberg-Washington Post debate  on Oct.
11 whether he would have bailed out Wall Street if he had been
in the shoes of Geithner, Paulson or Bernanke, he conceded that
he probably would have because the economy was on “the
precipice” of a “complete meltdown” and “action had to be
taken.”  Quickly, however, Romney pivoted on the bailouts: “Was it
perfect? No. Was it well-implemented? No, not particularly. Were
there some institutions that should not have been bailed out?
Absolutely. Should they have used the funds to bail out General
Motors and Chrysler? No, that was the wrong source for that
funding.”  Asked whether he agreed with former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  -- who said both Geithner and Bernanke should be fired
-- Romney said he agreed. “I wouldn’t keep Ben Bernanke in
office,” he replied, and then declined to say whom he would
select instead.  No Sympathy  Bernanke wasn’t going to get any sympathy that night from
Representative  Ron Paul , who wrote a book called “End The Fed”
and has been pushing Congress to demand that the Fed get audited
like every other federal agency -- the Fed has resisted the
audit, citing markets and the need for confidentiality. Paul
asked  Herman Cain , who was a governor of the Kansas City Fed
during the 1990s, whether he would support a Fed audit. Cain
said he would, then went into his own tirade against “this”
Fed. “I don’t agree with the actions of this Federal Reserve,”
he said. “I don’t agree with the actions that have been
undertaken by  Ben Bernanke .”  Cain’s model for a Fed chairman is  Alan Greenspan , who kept
 interest rates  very low in the mid-2000s, encouraging investors
to take more and more risk to find higher yields -- not unlike
what Bernanke is doing today.  “The way Alan Greenspan oversaw the Fed and the way he
coordinated with all of the Federal Reserve banks, I think that
it worked fine back in the early 1990s,” he said. For his part,
Paul correctly identified Greenspan’s crucial role in the
encouraging what became the financial crisis, and warned that
Bernanke was up to the same tricks, only worse. “He’s inflating
twice as fast as Greenspan was,” Paul said.  Paul was exactly right in describing the Fed’s problem
under Bernanke. By continuing to give Wall Street a gift of free
money, which can immediately be invested in U.S. Treasury
securities at a hefty spread, the Fed chairman has favored the
bottom lines of the big banks at the expense of the new
generation of Americans on Main Street who had discovered the
importance of saving. While Wall Street gets rich off the Fed’s
free money, savers get close to zero in interest and are forced
to look for riskier and riskier investments to find higher
yields. This is a repeat of the problem Greenspan helped foment
last decade. We all know how that turned out.  Although the chances of the Fed being abolished any time
soon hover between slim and remote, it is encouraging to see
that at least on this one issue anyway, the Zuccotti Park crowd
and the conservative Republicans see eye-to-eye. Maybe there is
hope after all.  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 