-- 
Sarkozy Is Said to Spar With Cameron on Role of Non-Euro Nations in Summit

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-10-23T22:04:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/sarkozy-cameron-said-to-spar-on-summit-role-of-non-euro-nations.html
Tensions between U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron  and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  boiled over
as they argued over the right of non-euro nations to attend Oct.
26 meetings on a revamped strategy to contain the Greece-fueled
debt crisis.  Cameron said the decisive talks in two days should include
leaders from all 27 European Union states and not be limited to
the 17 euro nations. Sarkozy replied that if the U.K. wanted to
be involved it should have joined the euro, said two people
familiar with the summit encounter yesterday in Brussels.  “We must safeguard the interests of countries that want to
stay outside the euro, particularly with respect to the
integrity of the single market for all 27 countries of the EU,”
Cameron told reporters after the meeting. “This crisis means
that greater fiscal and economic integration in the euro zone is
inevitable, but this must not be at the expense of Britain’s
national interest.”  Sarkozy told Cameron over lunch that he was angry that the
U.K. premier and Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
criticized the euro area’s response to the crisis and lectured
them on how to respond, the people said. In a compromise, a deal
was struck to hold a meeting of all 27 EU leaders on Oct. 26
before the euro-area chiefs convene to complete their strategy.  ‘Another Opportunity’  Cameron will attend “before the euro-zone conference gets
going,” he told reporters. “It gives us the opportunity to
finalize the decisions on banking recapitalization, which is
something that concerns all 27 countries, and it gives another
opportunity to feed in the importance of agreeing a
comprehensive package that will put the future of the euro on
more secure foundations.”  Spokesmen for Cameron and Sarkozy declined to comment.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  sought to smooth over
divisions between the euro states and those not in the single
currency, saying he will improve communication.  “I shared with the full European Council some of the
elements under discussion in the euro summits of later today and
Wednesday,”  Van Rompuy  told reporters after the meeting of the
27-member council. “I am fully aware of all the sensitivities
of the relationship between the 27 and the 17 member states, so
my intention is to have this exchange of views if possible each
time before the euro summit meetings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in Brussels at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Brussels at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  