-- 
Clinton Supports Probe of Qaddafi’s Death

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-10-23T15:46:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/secretary-of-state-clinton-supports-probe-into-qaddafi-s-death.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said she would “strongly support” investigations by
the  United Nations  and  Libya ’s Transitional National Council
into the circumstances of  Muammar Qaddafi ’s death.  “It’s important that this new government -- this effort to
have a democratic Libya -- start with the rule of law, start
with accountability,” Clinton said today in an interview with
NBC’s “Meet the Press” program. “Everyone who stood with the
old regime, as long as they don’t have blood on their hands,
should be safe and included in a new Libya.”  Qaddafi, who ruled Libya for 42 years, was killed on Oct.
20. The proposed investigations may examine the manner of his
death after videos of his last moments were released on the
Internet. One shows Qaddafi with a gunshot wound to his head
after a struggle with fighters.  Qaddafi was the third autocrat to be deposed and the first
to die in this year’s Arab Spring uprisings. Tunisia’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali fled to  Saudi Arabia  in January.  Egypt ’s Hosni Mubarak was toppled a month later and is currently on trial,
accused of conspiring to kill protesters who opposed his rule.  In response to a question about President Barack Obama’s
Oct. 21 announcement that all U.S. troops will be out of  Iraq  by
the end of the year, Clinton said “no one should miscalculate
America’s resolve and commitment to helping support the Iraqi
democracy.”  ‘Bases Elsewhere’  “We may not be leaving military bases in Iraq, but we have
bases elsewhere,” she said in the interview with NBC. She added
that the U.S. has “a NATO ally in  Turkey ,” a country which
borders Iraq.  “I hope that  Iran  and no one else miscalculates that,”
Clinton said.  Senator John McCain, speaking in an interview today on
ABC’s “This Week with Christiane Amanpour,” called Obama’s
announcement of the planned withdrawal “a serious mistake.”  “I’m very, very concerned about increased Iranian
influence in Iraq,” McCain said.  Clinton has been on a visit to Central Asia where she
pressed Afghanistan’s neighbors, including Tajikistan and
Uzbekistan, to halt the flow of militants and drugs across their
borders and to support an Afghan peace process to end a conflict
that is tying up 100,000 U.S. forces.  ‘Red Lines’  Clinton said there are “red lines” for any peace-
agreement talks the U.S. would have with the Islamic militant
Haqqani network in  Pakistan  and the Taliban. “They must
renounce violence,” she said in the ABC interview. “They must
renounce any and all ties to al Qaeda.”  In a separate interview aired today on “Fox News Sunday,”
Clinton said the U.S. is “testing out a lot of different
approaches” and is “trying to gauge who among the groups would
be sincere and serious about an Afghan-led peace process.”  Clinton said the U.S. has “a policy of fight, talk and
build.”  On an earlier stop in Islamabad, she urged Pakistan to move
against extremists who are attacking U.S. forces in  Afghanistan 
or risk dwindling support from the U.S. and further instability
at home.  “We’re upping the tempo of our efforts and the Pakistanis
on their side,” Clinton told NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “It’s
very important to stress that Pakistan, Afghanistan, and
Americans are already facing consequences from the attacks that
cross borders and kill innocent people. But the consequences
could become even more dire if we do not redouble our efforts to
try to increase our security cooperation.”  In the interview with ABC, Clinton also expressed concern
about recent threats of a possible attack against Americans by
al-Shabaab, a militia that has pledged allegiance to the al-
Qaeda terrorist network. The threats against U.S. citizens and
Westerners in  Kenya  have created “a very dangerous, uncertain
situation,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  