-- 
Swan Says Europe’s Sovereign Crisis Shouldn’t Damp Confidence in Australia

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-10-23T13:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/swan-says-europe-s-sovereign-crisis-shouldn-t-damp-confidence-in-australia.html
Volatility in global markets caused
by the sovereign debt crisis in Europe shouldn’t damp confidence
in Australia’s economic outlook, according to Treasurer  Wayne Swan .  “The situation in Europe will continue to have an impact
on our region, our economy and our budget bottom line,” Swan
said in his weekly economic note published yesterday. “But
Australians should remain confident about our prospects, based
on our strong fundamentals, our very low debt, low unemployment
and our massive investment pipeline.”  European leaders descended on Brussels at the weekend in a
last-ditch effort to stamp out a two-year-old financial crisis
that threatens to tip the world into a recession. Europe’s
economy will expand 1 percent in 2012, compared with 4.3 percent
in Australia where a mining boom is stoking the fastest pace of
growth among Group of 10 currency nations, according to
Bloomberg surveys.  Australia ’s jobless rate was 5.2 percent in September
versus 9.1 percent in the U.S., and 10 percent in Europe the
month prior. Australia’s sovereign debt burden of 27 percent is
the developed world’s second-lowest, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The government estimates the nation’s pipeline of
resource investment at A$430 billion ($446 billion), with about
40 percent of plans already at an advanced stage.  EU Deadline  European leaders have set a deadline of Oct. 26 to complete
a plan to beef up the euro bailout fund, cut  Greece ’s debt
without triggering a default, shield banks from the fallout and
ensure Italy and  Spain  don’t succumb to the contagion.  Measures being considered include a boost in rescue funds
to 940 billion euros ($1.3 trillion), deeper writedowns on Greek
debt, and a demand that banks increase  Tier 1 capital  to 9
percent by mid-2012.  “European leaders must agree on a durable solution to
address Greece’s excessive levels of sovereign debt,” Swan said
in the e-mailed statement, adding that leaders also need to
bolster the region’s banking system, build a “war chest” big
enough to combat concerns about contagion, and agree on a
credible framework for fiscal integration.  ‘Potential for Downturn’  “Anything short of this will lead to greater market
instability and the potential of a protracted downturn in
Europe,” he said.  Bill Gross , the manager of the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said Oct. 4 that he favors
investing in sovereign debt of nations including Australia that
have the ability to raise monetary stimulus as the risk of
recession increases.  Rising coal exports and resource investment should help
shield Australia from a global economic slowdown emanating from
the U.S. and  Europe , Deloitte Access Economics said Oct. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  