-- 
U.S. Troops to Central Africa Is a Sensible ’Adventure’: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-10-23T23:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/u-s-troops-to-central-africa-is-a-sensible-adventure-view.html
As real-life bad guys go, it doesn’t
get much worse than  Joseph Kony . He’s the leader of the Lord’s
Resistance Army, a cultish militia in central Africa that
survives by plundering villages, massacring adults and forcing
boys to become soldiers and girls to become sex slaves.  President  Barack Obama  has ordered the  deployment  of 100
military advisers to  Uganda  to help regional militaries capture
or kill Kony and his commanders. It’s a modest and reasonable
plan, and a good idea.  The LRA, which practices a bizarre form of mysticism, has
terrorized central Africa since the late 1980s, its  barbarism 
forcing millions of people to flee their homes at least
temporarily over the years. Previous crackdowns pushed the group
out of Uganda and weakened it. But the last campaign scattered
the LRA, estimated at between 200 and 300 fighters today, over
an area the size of  California  where the Central African
Republic, the  Democratic Republic  of the Congo and South Sudan
meet.  To effectively fight the group in the heavy bush in which
it operates, the militaries of these countries need the kind of
help that U.S. advisers can offer best from a forward
deployment: logistics, planning and especially intelligence. The
main goal is to neutralize Kony, since the LRA would probably
collapse without him.  The dispatch of U.S. military advisers is plainly
authorized by a 2010  law  calling for “political, economic,
military and intelligence support” for multinational efforts to
apprehend Kony and his minions. Congress passed the measure with
strong bipartisan support. The administration’s explicit
 objective  is simple and achievable: to free area residents from
the threat of LRA violence.  Why should the U.S. get involved? It’s a fair question,
even if the loudest critic of the policy got the facts
preposterously wrong:  Rush Limbaugh  generated a ripple of
opposition to the deployment after he  blasted  Obama for
targeting what he characterized as a group fighting
dictatorship. The LRA are Christians fighting Muslims, Limbaugh
said, in a colossal irrelevance that was also factually
incorrect.  Neutralizing the LRA is worth the minimal cost to the U.S.
Treasury and risk to U.S. forces for several reasons. First, the
U.S. already spends tens of millions of dollars every year
providing humanitarian assistance to communities assaulted by
the LRA. Second, the U.S. depends on the cooperation of other
countries to counter global terrorist threats, which often arise
out of local and regional conflicts. Helping those nations face
their own challenges strengthens ties and builds goodwill for
the U.S.  Finally, assisting the people of central  Africa  end the
scourge of the LRA is simply the decent thing for Americans to
do.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 