-- 
U.S. Women Look Abroad for Board Memberships as Quotas Mean 1,000 Openings

-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 
2011-10-23T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/u-s-women-look-abroad-for-board-memberships-as-quotas-mean-1-000-openings.html
European companies may be soon be
looking for hundreds of female directors to fill quotas,
prompting American executives to send their resumes across the
Atlantic.  At least ten European countries, including Norway, France
and  Spain , have approved quotas or corporate-governance codes
for women representation on boards, or are considering them.
That may require more than 1,000 new female directors in the
next three to five years, based on a 2010  report  covering 334
companies in 17 countries by executive recruiting firm Russell
Reynolds Associates.  U.S. women executives said they are eager to take their
experience overseas, where they face challenges including the
language barrier and resistance to outsiders. Doreen Wright, who
retired as  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  chief information officer in 2008,
is part of a growing number of  Baby Boomers  transitioning from
full-time executives to professional directors. They are willing
to take on additional work, she said.  “I feel like what is happening in Europe is important, and
I want to be part of it,” said Wright, 54, who parlayed a
degree in German literature into a 29-year corporate career that
started at Merrill Lynch and also ran through Bankers Trust Co.,
 American Express Co. (AXP) , Prudential Insurance and Nabisco.  A director for U.S. companies  Crocs Inc. (CROX)  and  Dean Foods
Co. (DF) , Wright said she studied in Munich and some of her roles
included European and South American operations.  Hand-Raisers  Wright is among about a hundred hand-raisers who responded
to corporate recruiter  Spencer Stuart  after the firm reached out
to Standard & Poor’s 500 female directors to help European
companies find candidates to meet the quotas, said Julie Daum,
co-leader of Spencer Stuart’s North American board and CEO
recruitment efforts in  New York .  Norway led European nations in 2003 in legislating that at
least 40 percent of corporate board seats be filled by women
about four years later. Spain and  France  were among the
countries that followed with their own quotas.  The 2010 Russell Reynolds report for  the European
Professional Women’s Network  found that among 4,875 directors at
334 companies in Europe, 12 percent, or 571, were women. Getting
to 40 percent would mean more than 1,300 additional female
directors.  “Unless you have some of the same women serving on many,
many boards, the pool of candidates may not be as robust as you
need it to hit those numbers” from existing European
executives, Daum said in an interview.  ‘Huge’ Response  The response from the U.S. women directors was “huge,
within hours,” Daum said. Spencer Stuart used the names to
assist searches for directors in the U.K.,  Germany  and France,
Daum said. The search firm also expects to see interest from the
Netherlands, Spain and Italy, she said.  Some European boards conduct meetings in English. Others
require native speakers, which can determine eligibility, said
Wendy Lane, a former  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  director and
current board member for two companies based in Europe in
addition to Laboratory Corp. of America Holdings in the U.S.  Lane, 60, who was both a mathematics and French major in
college, said she didn’t pursue a directorship this year for a
French company specifically because she wasn’t comfortable
enough with the language anymore to conduct business.  The eight-hour flight across the Atlantic Ocean requires
women with flexible schedules, Lane said. She has about eight
board meetings a year for Helsinki-based paper and forest
product company  UPM-Kymmene Oyj (UPM1V)  and four or five trips to Dublin
for meetings at insurance company  Willis Group Holdings Plc. (WSH)   Women in Their 50s  There is a shortage of European women executives in their
50s, which Lane says is the “sweet spot” for directors, and
particularly women with operating experience.  “I’m generally not for putting diversity as a number one
criteria, but on the other hand it does not seem to be happening
naturally, so maybe it has to be forced with a timeline, which I
think is very unfortunate,” Lane said.  The quota in  Europe  as well as voluntary efforts to
increase women directors in the U.S. and add women and foreign
directors for companies based in  Asia  is creating demand for
“global-citizen” board members around the world, said Dona E.
Roche-Tarry, managing partner for recruiter  CTPartners  in
 London .  “There is a big microscope on this across Europe and in
the next three to five years we have to meet many quotas,” said
Roche-Tarry, who has placed two American women on European
boards in the last year among five such searches. “The question
is: Where do you find all these people?”  Resistance to Outsiders  The challenge is made more difficult by European companies’
resistance to candidates outside of a traditional background who
are often selected based on existing relationships, said Marina
Eloy-Jacquillat, 64, a director at French polling company  Ipsos (IPS) 
SA and also Paris co-chair for Women Corporate Directors, which
advocates for women in the boardroom.  “I’m for quotas to get things started because it kicks
people in the ass to move it along,” said Eloy-Jacquillat, who
is French and a former human resource executive for  ING Groep NV (INGA) 
in Amsterdam and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in New York, London and
Paris. “We’ll never get to 40 percent in five years.”  Wright, who lives in New York, said her peers will be a
necessary resource for Europe as the pressure grows to meet the
requirements. She’s considering adding another U.S. board
membership to replace Citadel Broadcasting Corp., which was
acquired, and wants to find a European assignment as well.  “The prospect of being able to contribute is really
attractive,” she said of service in Europe. “I represent a
growing number of women in business. We worked hard on 15-hour-
a-day jobs with long commutes. We raised families. I retired at
51 from full-time corporate life. Now I have the capacity for
board work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carol Hymowitz at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net  