-- 
Wal-Mart’s Rivals in China May Gain Ground After Pork Probe

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-10-23T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-23/wal-mart-s-rivals-in-china-may-gain-ground-after-pork-probe.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  vows to exceed
expectations tomorrow when it reopens 13 Chinese outlets shut
for mislabeling pork, a rising challenge in an industry that’s
blossomed with competitors since the retailer arrived in 1996.  Wal-Mart has promised to revamp procedures after officials
in the southwestern city of Chongqing shut the stores two weeks
ago and detained 37 people after the world’s largest retailer
was found to be labeling ordinary pork as organic.  Now Wal-Mart needs to keep customers who helped double its
market share in five years from switching to  China ’s biggest
hypermarket retailer, Sun Art Retail Group, or rivals including
 Carrefour SA (CA)  and Tesco Plc. At stake is a market Euromonitor
International says may double to 911 billion yuan ($143 billion)
by 2015 from 447 billion won in 2010.  “There is already so much competition between Wal-Mart and
its peers,” said Jason Yuan, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian
Holdings Ltd. in  Shanghai . “The latest incidents add even more
pressure on Wal-Mart and drive consumers to its competitors.”  The mislabeling punishment was the most serious Wal-Mart
has faced in China after at least 21 citations in Chongqing
alone since 2006. Violations included selling expired duck and
displaying misleading price tags. Some shoppers are wary of
going back.  “I think I’ll avoid going to Wal-Mart for a little while
until I’m sure they’ve corrected their mistakes,” said Peng
Xiaoyu, a 25-year-old clothing-store owner, as she emerged with
milk, apples, cookies and shampoo from a Yonghui Superstores Co.
outlet in Chongqing. “Chinese supermarkets have been catching
up in recent years.”  Domestic Rivals  Wal-Mart’s biggest competitor in China is Sun Art, which
controlled 11.9 percent of the market in 2010, according to
Euromonitor data. The company, which opened its first store in
Shanghai in 1998, reported first-half net income rose 42 percent
from a year earlier to 784 million yuan. It plans to open 48
stores in China this year, according to Executive Director Peter
Huang.  China Resources Enterprise Ltd. (291) , the government-backed
company whose businesses range from retail to beverages, has
doubled market share since 2005 to 6.2 percent. Sales at the
retail business surged 63 percent from the previous year to
HK$55 billion in 2010, according to Bloomberg data.  Its retail division aims to increase market share by
expanding its network nationwide and offering more mid and high-
end products.  ‘Friendly Competitors’  “China is a big market,” China Resources spokesman
Vincent Tse said. “We are all friendly competitors.”  There are many of them. China has at least 32 operators of
hypermarkets, or food and beverage outlets with more than 2,500
square meters, according to Euromonitor. The U.S. has at least
10, and Wal-Mart controls 80 percent of that market.  Chinese hypermarket operators are nimble and good at
catering to local tastes, said Torsten Stocker, a partner at
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based consulting firm  Monitor Group .  “They are investing at least physical infrastructure and
IT system,” Stocker said. “There is no doubt that they are
formidable competitors.”  Wal-Mart entered into China in 1996, less than a year after
Carrefour arrived in December 1995. In the last decade, it has
grown to 353 stores from eight in what it forecasts will be the
world’s largest grocery market by 2014. Since 2005, its China
market share has more than doubled, from 4.8 percent to 11.2
percent, making it second-largest in the country behind Sun Art.  Stay Tuned  Ed Chan, the president of its China operations, resigned
nine days after the incident for “personal reasons,” the
company said. Asia CEO  Scott Price , who took interim control of
China operations after Chan’s resignation, apologized to
Chongqing Mayor Huang Qifan on Friday, promising to take
effective measures to correct problems at the closed stores.  Hong Kong-based spokesman Anthony Rose says customers will
notice changes once the Chongqing stores reopen. Rose would not
specify what the changes would involve. Tang Chuan, the director
of  law enforcement  at the Bureau of Inspection and Enforcement
in Chongqing, said Wal-Mart plans on-site food-safety testing
labs and consumer-rights desks.  “There is a whole list of interventions going on as we
speak,” Rose, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Wal-Mart, said in
an e-mail on Oct. 18. “Stay tuned for the 25th.”  In the past, Chinese shoppers went to Wal-Mart because they
trusted it wouldn’t cut corners and would only sell safe
products, said  Shaun Rein , an analyst at Shanghai-based China
Market Research Group.  “But now if you can’t trust Wal-Mart, why would you go
there and pay a premium?” said Rein, who expects Wal-Mart’s
market share to decline.  Tested Many Times  On a recent day, customers visiting a Wal-Mart in downtown
Beijing perused freezers full of pork and beef. A female
employee assured customers that the pork was safe because it
wasn’t supplied by the same company that delivered to Wal-Mart
in Chongqing. “Don’t worry, the pork has been tested many
times,” she said.  Xiao Li, a 30-year-old office worker who bought two meat
buns and two chicken wings for lunch at the store, said Wal-Mart
would get beyond the Chongqing problems. He likes to shop there
because the stores are clean and the food is laid out well, he
said.  “Wal-Mart is still a reliable brand,” Xiao said. “There
will be impacts from Chongqing of course, but that will be short
term.”  In an e-mail sent soon after the Chongqing stores were shut
Oct. 9, Wal-Mart spokesman Rose said the company would “exceed
customer expectations” when it reopens.  “Let our actions speak for our mission of saving people
money so that they can live better,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  