-- Barclays’ Absa CEO Forsakes Cash Bonus as Profit Misses Goal
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-02-12T15:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/absa-full-year-profit-falls-after-bank-increases-debt-provisions.html
Absa Group Ltd ., the African unit of
 Barclays Plc , said profit last year missed targets and the
firm’s performance, hit by real estate losses, prompted Chief
Executive Officer  Maria Ramos  to forsake a cash bonus and curb
boardroom payouts.  Net income dropped 13 percent to 8.39 billion rand ($935.6
million) in 2012, the Johannesburg-based bank said in a
statement today. Earnings per share, excluding one-time items,
were 12.27 rand, lower than the 12.57 rand median  estimate  of 17
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To forgo the cash incentive “was a decision I made and the
rest of the executive committee will receive reduced incentives
commensurate with group performance,” Ramos, 53, said in an
interview in Johannesburg today, without saying how much she was
due to receive. Earnings were “disappointing” as they missed
Absa’s own targets, she said.  In 2012 Absa’s head of debt collections left the company
and the bank was forced to boost provisions after credit
impairments rose. The bank also tightened lending as consumer
indebtedness gained. Eight years after Barclays bought control
of Absa, the South African bank is now preparing to buy the bulk
of Barclays’s African operations for $2 billion.  Deferred Award  Ramos was paid 20.7 million rand last year, including a
deferred award worth 14 million rand. Ramos, who joined the bank
in 2009, last got a cash bonus in 2010, when she was paid 2.28
million rand as part of her 19.6 million-rand compensation.  “While Absa is still a good business and the Barclays
Africa transaction has been well received, both by ourselves and
the market, performance from its core retail franchise has been
disappointing,”  Greg Saffy , an analyst at RMB Morgan Stanley in
Johannesburg, said in a report to clients on Jan. 18.  Higher credit impairments, particularly in retail mortgages
and commercial property finance, were the principal reason for
the lower-than-expected earnings, Absa said.  Absa’s capital adequacy ratio, a measure of financial
strength, rose to 17.4 percent last year, while its return on
equity dropped to 13.6 percent from 16.4 percent. Absa said it
would pay a final dividend of 6.84 rand per share.  Capital Surplus  The company rose 0.1 percent to 165.10 rand by the 5 p.m.
close in Johannesburg. It dropped as much as 2.2 percent
earlier.  The bank won’t be making any “huge” acquisitions and may
still use its surplus capital to pay a special dividend, Chief
Financial Officer  David Hodnett  said. Even after accounting for
Basel III rules, which require banks to carry more capital, Absa
would have a cash surplus of about 6 billion rand, he said in an
interview.  Five out of eight analysts polled by Bloomberg expected
Absa to announce a special dividend this month. Two of the eight
expected a special dividend in the second half of the year and
estimated it could be as high as 10 rand a share.  Absa investors including  Coronation Fund Managers  and the
Public Investment Corp., have questioned why Absa isn’t using
excess capital to help finance its purchase of Barclays’ African
assets and limit dilution of minority shareholders.  “Barclays and Absa are not negotiating on using cash for
the deal,” Hodnett said. “Barclays’s dilution is the biggest
and the price would be higher if we did part of it in cash.”  Sanlam Investment Management will be speaking with Absa
management during the next week about the bank’s high capital
levels,  Patrice Rassou , head of equities at the firm, said in an
e-mailed response to questions today.  Loan Growth  Absa expects loan growth of less than 10 percent again this
year, while its credit-loss ratio is expected to improve
“materially,” Ramos said.  “We are building momentum in our business and this should
become evident in our top line growth this year, which should
improve from last year’s modest levels, and should underpin a
noticeable improvement in our return on equity,” she said.  Ramos was director-general of National Treasury when the
government was led by former President  Nelson Mandela . She ran
the state-owned transport and logistics company, Transnet SOC
Ltd., for five years before joining Absa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  