-- Hagel’s Nomination to Lead Pentagon Moves to Full Senate
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-02-14T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/hagel-s-nomination-to-lead-pentagon-approved-by-panel.html
The U.S. Senate began debate
yesterday on  Chuck Hagel ’s nomination as defense secretary, with
Democratic leaders opening their drive to push through President
 Barack Obama ’s choice after the Armed Services Committee
approved the selection on a party-line vote.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , facing threats of
Republican-led efforts to stymie action on Hagel, took
procedural action to force a vote tomorrow on ending the
delaying tactics. That would set up a final vote no later than
the next day.  “This is the first time in the history of our country that
a presidential nominee for secretary of defense has been
filibustered,” said Reid, a Nevada Democrat. “What a shame.
But that’s the way it is.”  The 14-11 vote to confirm Hagel in the Democratic-led Armed
Service panel on Feb. 12 underscored continued Republican
resistance to Obama’s choice of the former Republican senator
from Nebraska and decorated Vietnam War veteran to replace  Leon Panetta  as the Pentagon’s leader.  Predicting that Hagel will be confirmed, White House press
secretary  Jay Carney  yesterday urged Republicans to let the
Senate move soon to a final vote.  “It is clear that Senator Hagel is uniquely qualified to
be secretary of defense, and it is clear that he has at least a
majority of senators who would vote to confirm him,” Carney
said. “We need to move forward with this nomination and make
sure we have a secretary of defense, which is a key post when it
comes to our national security interests.”  Iran, Iraq  Obama’s choice of Hagel, 66, has been criticized by
Republicans because of his past opposition to unilateral
sanctions against Iran, his comments about the influence of what
he once called “the Jewish lobby,” and his opposition to the
2007 U.S. troop surge in Iraq. Hagel faced an onslaught of
criticism from Republican lawmakers at his confirmation hearing
two weeks ago.  Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads the
Armed Services panel, has predicted all 55 senators who comprise
the Democratic caucus will back Hagel, and at least five
Republicans had previously indicated they would provide the
added votes needed to block a threatened filibuster.  Senator  James Inhofe  of Oklahoma, the panel’s top
Republican, has hinted at a filibuster, saying he believes that
60 votes should be required to confirm Hagel.  Further complicating the process, Senator  Lindsey Graham , a
South Carolina Republican, is calling for delays until the White
House explains what Obama did to encourage military action
during the deadly Sept. 11 attack on the U.S. mission in
Benghazi, Libya.  ‘Jamming’ Through  “We don’t have the information we need, and I am going to
fight the idea of jamming somebody through until we get answers
about what the president did personally when it came to the
Benghazi debacle,” Graham, a member of the Armed Services
committee, told reporters yesterday.  Chris Stevens, the U.S. ambassador to Libya, and three
other Americans were killed in the Benghazi attack.  Senator  John McCain , an Arizona Republican who opposes
Hagel but has said he won’t vote for a filibuster, said
yesterday he agrees that Graham deserves an answer before a
confirmation vote. McCain said he’s confident the White House
will produce the information Graham demands.  At a meeting of Senate Republicans yesterday, the lawmakers
discussed whether to band together to seek a delay on the vote
until after this week. Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas, the
chamber’s No. 2 Republican leader, said no decision was reached.  “It’s all up in the air right now,” he said.  ‘Broad Support’  Before the Armed Services Committee vote, Levin said Hagel
had explained or apologized for some of his more provocative
past statements.  “Despite efforts of some to portray him as ‘outside the
mainstream’ of American foreign policy, Senator Hagel has
received broad support from a wide array of senior statesmen and
defense and foreign policy organizations,” Levin said.  Several Republicans said Hagel failed to fully answer their
questions about his finances and speeches he had given.  Senator  Ted Cruz  of Texas, a freshman elected with Tea
Party support, said lawmakers couldn’t be certain that Hagel
didn’t give speeches underwritten by “radical” groups. Cruz
said he also wanted to ensure Hagel didn’t deposit funds into
his bank account that came from Saudi Arabia, North Korea or
other foreign governments.  Senator  Bill Nelson , a Florida Democrat, said Cruz had gone
“over the line” in offering such suppositions.  ‘Too Far’  “To question, in essence, whether somebody is a fellow
traveler with another country, I think, is taking it too far,”
Nelson said. He said such a suggestion goes beyond the “degree
of comity and civility that this committee has always been known
for.”  By tradition, the party not occupying the White House
doesn’t subject Cabinet-level positions to a filibuster threat.  In only two cases has a cabinet nominee required 60 votes
to overcome a filibuster on the Senate floor, according to  Betty Koed , the chamber’s associate historian. They were President
 Ronald Reagan ’s 1987 pick for Commerce Secretary, C. William
Verity, and President  George W. Bush ’s 2006 choice of  Dirk Kempthorne  to be Interior Secretary. Both overcame the higher
vote threshold to win confirmation.  Opposition to Hagel, including ads on cable television, has
been led by Republicans outside Congress such as  William Kristol , editor of the Weekly Standard magazine.  Iraq Surge Issue  Kristol and McCain are among Republicans who favor a more
aggressive U.S. military stance abroad and who broke with Hagel
when he opposed the surge of troops in Iraq during President
George W. Bush’s administration.  McCain repeatedly pressed Hagel at last month’s
confirmation hearing to say that he had been wrong about the
surge. Hagel refused McCain’s demands for a yes-or-no answer.  “His performance before this committee was the worst that
I have seen of any nominee for office,” McCain said earlier
this week. “He refused to answer a simple, straightforward
question as to whether the surge was a success or not, and
whether he supported it or not. That was a key moment in the
history of this country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  