-- Agrium Appoints Two Directors After Breakdown of Talks
-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-02-12T21:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/agrium-appoints-former-viterra-ceo-to-board-amid-row-with-jana.html
Agrium Inc. , the Canadian fertilizer
producer under pressure from activist shareholder Jana Partners
LLC, named two non-executive directors to its board after the
breakdown of talks to avert a proxy fight.  Agrium appointed  Mayo Schmidt , the former chief executive
officer of Canadian grain handler Viterra Inc., and  David Everitt , a retired Deere & Co. executive, the Calgary-based
company said yesterday in a statement.  Jana has sought to replace five of Agrium’s 11 directors
with its own nominees, citing a lack of experience in farm-
product retailing and distribution on the current board, and has
proposed the company spin off of its retail network, the largest
in North America, to boost profitability. The New York-based
hedge fund is Agrium’s largest  shareholder  with a 6.2 percent
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Agrium said it held three days of talks with Jana prior to
the appointment of Schmidt and Everitt. It said the fund
initially agreed to drop its demand for a breakup in return for
naming a director to Agrium’s board.  “At the last minute, Jana reneged and insisted on two
director nominees,” Agrium said. “As a result, discussions
terminated.”  Agrium “continues to refuse to acknowledge the need for
independent voices on its board,” Jana said yesterday in a
statement in response to the Agrium announcement.  ‘Performance Issues’  Jana said it ended discussions with the company when Agrium
“refused to commit itself to addressing any of the performance
issues identified by Jana, and also revealed the names of new
directors who Jana believes are insufficient to address the
Agrium board’s deficiencies.”  “It does seem that Agrium is being responsive to the
concerns and needs of investors,”  John Chu , a Toronto-based
analyst at AltaCorp Capital Inc., said today in a telephone
interview. “We expect that this should appease a lot of them,
but obviously not Jana.”  Agrium fell 2 percent to C$112.71 in Toronto.  The shares ,
which reached an intraday record of C$116.38 on Jan. 28, have
climbed 37 percent in the past 12 months.  Jana’s nominees to Agrium’s board are the fund’s co-founder
and managing partner  Barry Rosenstein ;  David Bullock , a former
chief financial officer of Graham Packaging Inc.;  Stephen Clark ,
the former CEO of German chemicals distributor Brenntag AG; MSC
Industrial Direct Co. Chairman  Mitchell Jacobson ; and  Lyle Vanclief , a former Canadian minister of agriculture.  Agrium director nominee Schmidt left Viterra after the
company was acquired by Glencore International Plc in December.
Before his retirement, Everitt had responsibility for Deere’s
global tractor and crop-care products, according to Agrium’s
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in New York at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  