-- Make Europe Feel Special Again
-- B y   T i m   J u d a h
-- 2013-02-12T00:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/make-europe-feel-special-again.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  is
famously disinterested in Europe, but if he could spare a line
for us in his State of the Union, it should be this: “We value
our special relationship with the European Union, made all the
more special by the fact that the U.K. is part of it.”  Many of the same Britons clamoring for the U.K. to leave
the EU also like to harp on about their country’s so-called
special relationship with the U.S. Obama should tell them that’s
fine, but please be special inside the EU -- not outside where
you aren’t much use to us or anyone.  In a globalized world, where the population of Shanghai is
larger than that of several European states, size matters. The
U.K. is a useful, like-minded ally at the EU’s top negotiating
table, whether the U.S. is trying to persuade Europeans to back
sanctions against Iran, sign a U.S.-EU free-trade agreement or
watch after our common flanks and allies, whether in Mali,
Turkey or Ukraine.  Iraq shattered the myth of a U.S. virtually alone and
unbeatable, and the travails of the euro have brought Europe’s
self-congratulation back to earth, too. We need one another, but
the U.S. needs to use its influence to convince the U.K.’s euro
skeptics that out of the EU, the U.K. will be less relevant than
inside it. Obama has the moral authority to help -- come and
visit us in Europe more often.  ( Tim Judah , the Europe correspondent for the World View
blog, is a correspondent for the Economist and author of several
books on the Balkans. The opinions expressed are his own.
This is one of 11 suggestions Bloomberg View columnists made for
the foreign policy section of Barack Obama's State of the Union
address. Read more  here .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Tim Judah at  timjudah@btinternet.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 