-- Malian Army Controls City of Gao, French Say
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   D i a k a r i d i a   D e m b e l e
-- 2013-02-12T13:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/malian-army-controls-city-of-gao-french-say.html
The northern Malian city of Gao is
now “calm” and under the control of government forces after
three assaults by Islamist militants last weekend, the French
Defense Ministry said.  “These attacks were rapidly controlled by the Malian armed
forces,” the ministry said in an “operational update” posted
on its  website  late yesterday. French forces “supported these
actions to bring the town back under control.”  The attacks in Gao, including two suicide bombings, were
carried out by the Movement for Unity and Jihad in West Africa,
one of the three Islamist groups that took control of northern
Mali last month before being pushed out by French and Malian
forces. Astor Bilal, an adviser to the town’s mayor, yesterday
reported “violent clashes” between the Islamist fighters and
troops from the Malian army and allied African forces.  France intervened in Mali to help restore government
control over a nation that vies with Tanzania as Africa’s third-
biggest gold producer. Some of its 4,000 troops may start
withdrawing in a few weeks as an African Union-backed regional
force prepares to take over and hold key areas, French Defense
Minister  Jean-Yves Le Drian  said on Feb. 6.  “All the public areas and strategic locations in town have
been secured by the Malian army and its allies,” Sadou Diallo,
the mayor of Gao, said today in a phone interview. “But all
economic activity is completely paralyzed at the moment.”  Central Market  People living near the central market detained two men this
morning on suspicion they may be militants and handed them over
to the security forces, he said.  A French light armored unit and troops from Chad are
securing the northern town of Tessalit, the defense ministry
said. French engineers have been parachuted in to take control
of the town’s airport.  President  Francois Hollande  yesterday said that French
military operations will continue “as long as any part of
Mali’s territory is under terrorist control.”  African forces in Mali now number 4,100, of which 1,800 are
from Chad, the French say. The first installment of European
Union military trainers arrived last week.  Islamist rebels and ethnic Touareg separatists seized
control of much of northern Mali last year after a March coup in
the capital, Bamako, by soldiers who said they didn’t have
enough weapons and equipment to fight the insurgents.  Tourism Collapses  Mali is now led by interim President  Dioncounda Traore  and
Prime Minister  Diango Cissoko , who was appointed in December
after the leader of the coup, Captain  Amadou Sanogo , forced
 Cheick Modibo Diarra  to resign.  The country’s tourist industry, already affected by
kidnappings of western visitors to the north, collapsed as the
insurgencies spread. Northern Mali is home to the desert city of
Timbuktu, a World Heritage Site and historic center of ancient
Islamic scholarship.  Mali’s $10.6 billion economy contracted 1.5 percent in
2012, according to the International Monetary Fund. It’s
expected to expand 4.5 percent this year, the IMF said on Jan.
28, as gold mining in the government-held south continues during
the conflict.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd . and  Randgold Resources Ltd .
are among the miners in Mali.  The IMF said last month that it approved a disbursement of
about $18.4 million to Mali under the rapid credit facility “to
support the authorities with policy advice and financial support
to maintain macroeconomic stability and growth during the next
12 months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Diakaridia Dembele in Bamako  at 
 ddembele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  