-- America Movil Dives as Mexican Economy Slows Unexpectedly
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-02-13T21:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/america-movil-profit-trails-estimates-as-rules-spur-competition.html
America Movil SAB , the mobile-phone
company controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , lost a 10th of
its value after saying slower Mexican economic growth hurt voice
revenue in the fourth quarter and in January.  The shares  slid  10 percent to 14.17 pesos at the close in
Mexico City, the biggest decline since April 2008. The drop
dragged down the benchmark IPC index, which fell 1.7 percent
because Slim’s carrier makes up almost a fifth of its weight.  Revenue from wireless phone calls in Mexico, America
Movil’s biggest market, continued to fall in January after
declining 3.8 percent in the fourth quarter, Chief Executive
Officer  Daniel Hajj  said today on a conference call. The slump
is putting pressure on the company to seek growth in other
areas, though those efforts have been met with mixed results.
America Movil took a stake in the Netherlands’ Royal KPN NV last
year -- an investment that has plunged in value.  “In Mexico, we are facing an unexpected slowdown of the
economy,” Chief Financial Officer  Carlos Garcia-Moreno  said on
the conference call. He said the shift was as unexpected as the
one that happened last year in Brazil, when growth subsided to 1
percent, according to economists’ estimates.  Mexico’s economy expanded less than 3 percent in the fourth
quarter, the slowest since June 2011, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists. Mexico accounted for about 35 percent of
the company’s revenue in the fourth quarter.  Discount Smartphones  Profit at America Movil has also been hurt because it’s
selling smartphones at a discount to lure customers into two-
year contracts, Hajj said. While the subsidies will be worth it
because they’ll encourage more spending on mobile Internet
plans, they are a heavy burden for the company, he said. They’re
likely to continue because only about half of customers on
contracts have a smartphone, he said.  “We’re dealing with where and how we can subsidize less,”
Hajj said. “What cannot stop is bringing in good customers to
use all our data platforms.”  America Movil acquired a 28 percent stake last year in KPN,
which is now selling $5.4 billion in shares to raise capital. To
participate in the sale, Slim may impose conditions including a
seat on KPN’s board and the replacement of Chief Executive
Officer  Eelco Blok , people familiar with the matter said.  The company is still studying KPN’s offer and plans to
announce a decision early next week, Garcia-Moreno said today.  Wireless Fees  America Movil bid 8 euros ($11) a share for its KPN stake
last year, citing the Dutch operator’s long-term growth
prospects. Since then, the stock has tumbled to less than half
that price. It closed at up 4.5 percent to 3.27 euros today in
Amsterdam.  America Movil’s fourth-quarter earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization totaled 61.7 billion pesos
($4.86 billion), the Mexico City-based company said yesterday in
a statement. That fell short of the 65.6 billion-peso average of
six  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Regulators in Mexico, Brazil and Colombia, which make up
more than 70 percent of America Movil’s sales, have also cut
into the company’s profits by cracking down on the fees wireless
companies charge to connect calls from rivals. That has allowed
competitors to trim consumer prices, putting pressure on America
Movil, the Western Hemisphere’s most widely used phone company.  Peso Strength  “This isn’t the same America Movil as before,” said
 Martin Lara , an analyst at Corp. Actinver SAB in Mexico City who
has a hold rating on the shares. “Before you had a high-growth
company, then in the last few years you had a low-growth
company.”  A stronger currency hurt America Movil’s sales and profits
because the majority of its sales come from outside Mexico and
are then translated into pesos in its financial statements. The
Mexican peso averaged 12.94 per dollar in the quarter, compared
with 13.61 pesos a year earlier, the company said.  Net income fell 8.2 percent from a year earlier to 15
billion pesos, or 20 centavos a share. Sales slid 1.1 percent to
198 billion pesos, topping the 191.6 billion-peso average of
seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Without the effect of the peso’s appreciation and leaving
out sales of phones and other equipment, revenue would have
risen 5.2 percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier,
America Movil said. That still marks a slowdown from 6.1 percent
growth in the prior quarter.  America Movil added 5.6 million  subscribers  in the quarter
for a total of 262 million, even after disconnecting 1.5 million
customers because they had failed to use their lines. The
average of three estimates for subscriber additions was 6.5
million.  Television customers rose 22 percent from a year earlier to
16.4 million, preserving America Movil’s lead over DirecTV as
the biggest pay-TV provider in Latin America.  (For a recording of America Movil’s conference call today,
click here.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  