-- America’s Oldest Director Quits at 96 to Focus on Tax Law
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-02-12T21:29:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/america-s-oldest-director-quits-at-96-to-focus-on-tax-law.html
Mortimer Caplin , who is stepping
down from the board of Danaher Corp. at age 96, said the
departure will allow him to spend more time on two of his
passions: tax law and the University of Virginia.  “I’m still practicing law, and our firm is very heavily
involved in the tax world,” Caplin said today in a phone
interview. “I swim every day and I’m at the office every day.”  The attorney will resign in May as a director at  Danaher ,
after serving on the board since 1990, the Washington-based
provider of measuring and diagnostic equipment said yesterday in
a filing. Caplin was identified in a 2011 Bloomberg News article
on corporate directors as the oldest at a company in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Caplin is 11 years older than  Pope Benedict  XVI, who said
yesterday he is stepping down because he no longer has the
strength to lead the world’s Catholics.  Warren Buffett , the
chairman and chief executive officer of Omaha, Nebraska-based
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., is 82.  “I haven’t regarded age as a real factor,” Caplin said.
“It’s a question of capability and I suppose willingness at the
same time.”  Caplin was appointed commissioner of the Internal Revenue
Service in 1961 by then-President  John F. Kennedy  after
previously teaching law at the University of Virginia, where
 Robert F. Kennedy  and  Edward Kennedy  were among his students.  “I had a good start up in meeting their brother along the
way,” Caplin said by phone. “I think that was an important
factor” in being appointed IRS commissioner.  Navy Veteran  Caplin received a bachelor’s degree from the University of
Virginia in 1937 and a law degree from the institution in 1940.
He also received a doctor of juridical science degree from New
York University. A veteran of the U.S. Navy, he served as a
beachmaster in the Normandy invasion of Nazi-occupied Europe,
according to a biography on his law firm’s website.  Caplin founded Caplin & Drysdale after leaving the IRS. The
law firm has offices in Washington and New York and provides tax
advice to corporate and individual clients.  He’s involved in performing arts and public policy at the
University of Virginia, including an annual conference on the
global economy that bears his name. Caplin said he plans to
devote more time to the gathering and a  campus theater  named
after his wife, Ruth Caplin.  Caplin said he swims at his home in the Washington suburb
of Chevy Chase, Maryland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  