-- Annie Earns $3,000, Terriers Make $1770 on Broadway
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-02-12T20:17:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/annie-earns-3-000-terriers-make-1770-on-broadway.html
Broadway is somewhere between a
hard-knock life and easy street for the child performers
crowding New York stages this season. Same goes for their non-
human co-stars.  Lilla Crawford earns $3,000 a week playing the title role
of the $12-million revival of “Annie.”  Sunny and Casey, the two terrier mixes who alternate as
Sandy, are each paid $1,770 a week.  While Crawford may be Broadway’s best-paid minor, her two
adult co-stars earn more than three times her salary, $10,000 a
week, according to a preliminary production budget obtained from
the office of New York State Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman 
via the Freedom of Information Law.  “Most of these kids would do it for free,” said David
Doan, an agent who represents 10 children on Broadway. “With
adults, it’s their livelihood. With kids, it’s a hobby.”  In the case of “Annie,” at least the first half of that
is true: Katie Finneran had won two Tony Awards before becoming
the ogress of the orphanage, Miss Hannigan. And Oliver “Daddy”
Warbucks is played by  Anthony Warlow , a seasoned opera and
musical-theater star in Australia. (None of the stars, however,
has as much value as the title “Annie” on the marquee.)  “Annie” will soon be doing battle with “ Matilda ” for
the title of top girl on Broadway.  Power Girl  The show, a smash hit in London, is adapted from the  Roald Dahl  novel about a 5-year-old who outsmarts her idiot elders
with the help of a cunning intelligence and, oh yes, telekinetic
powers.  The four girls alternating in the title role will earn the
Broadway weekly minimum of about $2,000, according to a person
familiar with the production.  That includes an extra $20 weekly for “extraordinary
risk,” which in “Matilda” involves singing while on a moving
swing.  “Annie” and “Matilda” together employ about two dozen
children. Young actors are also in “Cat on a Hot Tin Roof,”
“ Mary Poppins ,” “ The Lion King ,” “Once,” “Newsies” and
“The Mystery of Edwin Drood.”  Each of the four Matildas will perform at least twice a
week. The “Annie” orphans earn about the same for going on
eight shows a week, according to its budget.  “I think the pay could be greater with all they’re giving
up,” said Lisa Calli, a manager specializing in juvenile
actors. “In these shows, the kids are really working hard.”  Spokesmen for the producers of “Annie” and “Matilda”
declined to comment on compensation.  ‘Incredible Fondness’  Michael Shulman, 31, a television, film and theater
producer who grew up in Manhattan, said performing in “Les
Miserables” as a teenager helped him save money for college and
get admitted to Yale University.  “People look back with incredible fondness,” he said of
the experience.  Calli shuttled her son, Luka, now 13, to and from the
Vivian Beaumont Theater eight times a week for the revival of
“South Pacific.”  “It’s a job for the parents, but the kids love it,” she
said.  New York’s professional young actors out-earn their British
counterparts. West End Matildas, who go on at least twice a
week, are paid about 250 pounds ($400), London’s Sunday Times
reported. West End children earn half the adult minimum, per an
agreement negotiated by their union, British Equity.  Union Free  That’s considerably less than Broadway’s mutts, though they
come with unusual expenses.  “It’s terribly deceiving,” veteran animal trainer  Bill
Berloni  said of those figures. Producers, he said, “will turn
to me and say you’re one of the best-paid actors on staff. But
I’m a department.”  Berloni lives in Haddam, Connecticut. He rents a $3,000-a-
month apartment in Washington Heights for Sunny, Casey and their
handler. As neither Berloni nor his dogs are members of a union,
he must negotiate each contract from scratch. He said he spent
$20,000 negotiating the fees for “Annie.”  Three recent Broadway revivals -- “Anything Goes,”
“Gypsy” and “The Miracle Worker” -- excised canine roles to
save money, Berloni said. “Legally Blonde,” which closed in
2008, was his last Broadway musical. He and his wife, Dorothy,
care for two dozen rescue dogs from prior shows, including two
bulldogs from 2012’s “A Christmas Story.”  “When the recession hit, we were the first thing to go,”
Berloni said of animal roles. “It’s getting tougher and tougher
to make ends meet.”  Muse highlights include  James S. Russell  on architecture
and Washington  Scene .  To contact the reporter of this story:
 Philip Boroff  in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 