-- Asset Managers Facing Near-Zero Growth in Client Deposits
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-02-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/asset-managers-facing-near-zero-growth-in-client-deposits.html
Investment managers unprepared for
five more years of slow deposits won’t be protected by an
improving economy and a resurgent stock market, according to a
 new study  on the industry.  Firms globally will see annual growth from new client money
of 0.6 percent through at least 2017, consulting firm Casey
Quirk & Associates LLC said in a paper published today. Many
managers will struggle with shrinking revenue as much of the
growth will be concentrated in companies that specialize in
niches such as alternative-investment strategies, or that sell
to customers in emerging economies.  “Market appreciation at any level won’t be enough to save
asset managers focused on selling outmoded products to slower-
growing investors,”  Benjamin Phillips , a partner at the Darien,
Connecticut-based firm, said in an interview.  U.S. mutual-fund companies were headed for record deposits
in January, mostly in stocks, as the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index 
rose 5 percent. That rally, building on gains in three of the
past four years, raised hopes among market bulls for a so-called
great rotation out of bonds and into stocks, a shift that would
further boost equity values. Asset-management firms typically
charge more to manage stocks than bonds.  Long-term funds, which exclude money-market vehicles,
attracted a net $64.8 billion in the first three weeks of last
month, according to the Washington-based Investment Company
Institute. The previous record was $52.6 billion for all of May
2009, according to the ICI, whose data go back to 1984.  Capital Appreciation  Asset managers globally enjoyed growth from deposits of 6
percent to 7 percent in the three years through 2007, according
to Casey Quirk. The next four years, marked by the piercing of
the U.S. housing bubble and the subsequent financial crisis, saw
growth of close to zero.  Industry revenue will rise to $483 billion in 2017 from
$352 billion in 2012, according to the study. Capital
appreciation is projected to account for 89 percent of that
growth. The study, which doesn’t single out any companies,
covers mutual-fund providers, private equity, hedge funds, bank-
owned firms and other investment managers.  Companies that provide cheap indexing or multiasset
products such as asset-allocation funds and target-date
retirement funds will fare best in the slow-growth climate,
according to Casey Quirk.  Vanguard’s Record  Vanguard Group Inc., known for its index-based mutual funds
and exchange-traded products, attracted $24.3 billion in
January, a record for the Valley Forge, Pennsylvania-based firm.
Among all U.S. providers, mutual funds categorized by research
firm Morningstar Inc. as alternative or balanced gathered $33.3
billion in 2012 while dedicated stock funds had $104 billion in
withdrawals.  Balanced funds hold a mix of stocks and bonds. Alternative
investments can include hedge funds, private equity and
commodity holdings or mutual funds that seek to mimic those
strategies.  The main sources for new money will be wealthy individuals
in developed markets and the burgeoning number of investors in
emerging-market countries, according to Casey Quirk.  Firms that rely on traditional actively run stock and bond
funds will suffer unless they provide a clear investing
philosophy that delivers absolute gains, not just performance
above benchmarks, according to the study. Active managers select
securities while index funds are designed to simply track market
or industry benchmarks.  “Managers need to modernize themselves and find ways of
making their strengths relevant to what investors want,”  Kevin Quirk , a partner at the firm, said in the same interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  