-- Assurant Gains as Fannie Mae Force-Placed Plan Stalls
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-02-12T21:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/assurant-gains-as-fannie-mae-force-placed-plan-stalls.html
Assurant Inc. , the seller of
insurance on foreclosed homes, rose the most since 2011 as the
overseer of U.S. housing agencies said it’s requiring more study
of Fannie Mae’s plan to cut costs for the coverage.  Assurant gained 6.7 percent to $41.05 at 4 p.m. in New
York, the biggest advance on the 81-company  Standard & Poor’s
500 Financials Index .  The Federal Housing Finance Agency said yesterday that it’s
still evaluating force-placed coverage, the insurance that
borrowers are required to buy when they lapse on existing
policies. FHFA’s delay on Fannie Mae’s push is a “decisive
positive” for insurers such as New York-based Assurant, because
it reduces pressure to lower premiums,  Kevin Barker , an analyst
at Compass Point Research & Trading LLC., said in a note today.  “FHFA’s objective is consistent with what Fannie Mae was
working to accomplish, to reduce costs, but to do so with all
the pertinent information,” Meg Burns, senior associate
director in FHFA’s office of housing and regulatory policy, said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “This is a responsible and
measured approach.”  Force-placed insurance is designed to protect lenders and
mortgage investors when homeowners stop paying policy premiums.
It’s typically selected by lenders and billed to borrowers.  American Banker reported in November that Fannie Mae was
seeking to save hundreds of millions of dollars on force-placed
insurance by finding alternative providers of the coverage.
Regulators in California, Florida and New York have been
pressing insurers to cut premiums amid inquiries into whether
they charge too much.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  