-- Aussie, Kiwi Advance as G-7 Officials Offer Conflicting Views
-- B y   T a y l o r   T e p p e r
-- 2013-02-12T22:10:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/aussie-kiwi-advance-as-g-7-officials-offer-conflicting-views.html
The Australian dollar rose from
almost a four-month low against its U.S. counterpart as unnamed
Group of Seven officials gave differing signals over whether
member nations are concerned with excess moves in the yen.  The Aussie appreciated versus all of its most-traded peers
except the yen and New Zealand dollar after reaching a key
technical support level and two business-confidence surveys
rose. New Zealand’s currency climbed to a four-day high versus
the greenback as reports showed new-house prices and spending on
electronic credit cards rose.  “The Aussie seemed to follow along with the broader move
in the market, and that brings us to the core themes of the G-7
comments,”  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist for Bank
of Nova Scotia, said in a telephone interview from Toronto.
“Most of its moves were seen were seen during the North
American session.”  The Aussie strengthened 0.5 percent to $1.0305 yesterday in
New York trading after falling to $1.0227, the lowest since Oct.
15. It declined 0.4 percent to 96.32 yen.  The New Zealand dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, gained 0.6
percent to 84.03 U.S. cents and dropped 0.3 percent to 75.55
yen.  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials increased
0.1 percent.  Dueling Comments  The dollars of the South Pacific nations fell against the
yen as an official in Washington, who requested not to be
further identified, said G-7 nations are concerned about
excessive moves in Japan’s currency and that it will be
discussed at the Group of 20 meeting this weekend. A U.K.
official who requested anonymity said later that the G-7 was not
singling out an individual country or currency.  Both comments followed a G-7 statement that appeared to
signal acceptance for a weaker Japanese currency, so long as
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government didn’t actively pursue
devaluation.  Australian business  confidence index  for January rose to 3
from a revised 2 in the month prior, according to a National
Australia Bank Ltd. survey released yesterday of more than 400
companies taken Jan. 25-Feb. 4. The  business conditions  gauge, a
measure of hiring, sales and profits, improved to a minus 2 from
a revised minus 5.  The Aussie halted its recent drop versus the greenback
after finding support toward $1.0225, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said,
citing trading patterns.  Fibonacci Analysis  The area from $1.0255 to $1.0225 contains the 38.2 percent
Fibonacci retracement of the currency’s advance from last year’s
low of 95.82 cents to $1.0625 on Sept. 14. It also includes the
76.4 percent retracement from the October low of $1.0149,  Niall O’Connor , a technical analyst at JP Morgan, wrote yesterday in a
note to clients.  Fibonacci analysis, based on the work of 13th century
mathematician Leonardo of Pisa, known as Fibonacci, is founded
on the theory that prices rise or fall by certain percentages
after reaching a new high or low. Support is an area on a price
graph where buy orders may clustered.  The kiwi gained after a  report showed  purchases on debit,
credit and store cards rose for a fourth month, Statistics New
Zealand said yesterday.  New Zealand’s home prices rose 7.2 percent in January from
a year earlier, led by demand in Auckland, its biggest city, the
Real Estate Institute of New Zealand said in an e-mailed
statement.  The Aussie fell 2.7 percent during the past three months
among the 10 developed-nation currencies monitored by the
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The kiwi gained 1.7
percent. The greenback dropped 1.4 percent and the yen led
decliners, plunging 18 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylor Tepper in New York at 
 ttepper2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  