-- Australia Business Sentiment Little Changed in January, NAB Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-02-12T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/australia-business-sentiment-little-changed-in-january-nab-says.html
Australian business confidence
maintained gains in January as a better outlook in China and
central bank interest-rate reductions at home helped boost
sentiment, a private survey showed.  The  confidence index  for January rose to 3 from a revised 2
in the month prior, according to a National Australia Bank Ltd.
survey released today of more than 400 companies taken Jan. 25-
Feb. 4. The  business conditions  gauge, a measure of hiring,
sales and profits, improved to minus 2 from a revised minus 5.  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board cut the benchmark rate to 3 percent in December, matching
the level reached from April-October 2009 that was the lowest
since 1960, before pausing this month as the global outlook
brightened. China’s gross domestic product increased 7.9 percent
in the last three months of 2012 from a year earlier, the first
acceleration in eight quarters.  The “recovery mainly reflects external factors, including
the rally in global equity markets and generally better activity
in China, as well as recent RBA cuts,” NAB Chief Economist  Alan Oster  said in the report. “However confidence remains below
long-run average levels.”  Australia’s benchmark stock index gained 14.6 percent in
2012 and the MSCI World Index rose 13.2 percent over the period.  U.S. lawmakers approved a measure in early January averting
tax increases and spending cuts that threatened to send the
world’s biggest economy into recession.  Rate Bets  Traders are pricing in a 56 percent chance the RBA will
reduce rates by a quarter percentage point to a record-low 2.75
percent when the board meets next month, according to swaps data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Business conditions were generally better across interest
sensitive industries in January, but fell heavily in mining,”
Oster said, while noting that it was difficult “to separate out
any impact of the Queensland floods.”  In January, the northeastern state of Queensland suffered
flooding for the second time in about two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  