-- Avon Rises Most in Almost Four Decades on Silpada, Profit
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-02-12T21:29:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/avon-profit-tops-estimates-as-mccoy-trims-costs.html
Avon Products Inc.  rose the most in
almost four decades after fourth-quarter adjusted profit topped
analysts’ estimates and the company said it would evaluate
alternatives for the Silpada jewelry unit.  The shares climbed 20 percent to $20.79 at the close in New
York for the biggest gain since January 1974. The shares dropped
18 percent last year for a third straight annual decline.  Chief Executive Officer  Sheri McCoy , who took the helm of
the world’s largest door-to-door cosmetics seller in April, is
cutting about 1,500 jobs and leaving the South Korea and Vietnam
markets as part of a plan to save $400 million by the end of
2015. McCoy said today on a conference call that she would seek
strategic alternatives for the company’s Silpada jewelry unit,
where sales fell 18 percent in the fourth quarter.  “While there are still many challenges, there is also
fundamental improvement,”  Connie Maneaty , an analyst at Bank of
Montreal in New York, wrote in a note today. The two markets
that account for about three quarters of Avon’s sales -- Latin
America and the company’s Europe, Middle East and Africa region
-- are growing, said Maneaty, who rates the shares outperform,
the equivalent of a buy.  Excluding items such as restructuring charges and costs to
impair some assets, fourth-quarter profit was 37 cents a share,
New York-based Avon said today in a statement. That exceeded the
27-cent average estimate of 15  analysts surveyed  by Bloomberg.  The net loss widened to $162.2 million, or 37 cents a
share, from a loss of $400,000, or breakeven on a per-share
basis, a year earlier, the company said.  Sales Fall  Sales fell 1.4 percent to $2.96 billion. Analysts estimated
$3.01 billion, on average. Beauty sales rose 1 percent excluding
the effect of currency fluctuations, and the number of active
representatives increased 1 percent.  Avon bought Silpada Designs Inc. in July 2010 for about
$650 million for a company that had annual sales of about $230
million at the time. The company today said it took a non-cash,
pretax impairment charge on the unit of $209 million, or 31
cents a share, for the fourth quarter. Last year, Silpada had
about $155 million in sales, Chief Financial Officer Kimberly
Ross said on today’s call.  The period also included restructuring charges of about $58
million, or 9 cents a share, before taxes, and a 3-cent-a-share
benefit for releasing a provision associated with the cost of
acquiring U.S. dollars in Venezuela.  Repatriating Cash  Avon said it determined that it may need to repatriate some
offshore  cash  to meet funding needs in the U.S. and is no longer
asserting that the undistributed earnings of some foreign units
are indefinitely reinvested. The change resulted in an
additional provision for income taxes of $168 million, or 39
cents a share.  Last week, the Venezuelan government instituted its fifth
devaluation in nine years, lowering the bolivar by 32 percent,
to 6.3 per dollar. Avon is one of the most exposed companies,
with Venezuela representing about 5 percent of sales and 8
percent of operating profit, BMO’s Maneaty wrote in a Feb. 11
note.  Avon said the devaluation will result in charges of about
$50 million in the first half of this year and an after-tax loss
of about $50 million in the current quarter as it writes down
assets related to that business.  Fourth-quarter sales rose about 2 percent in Latin America
and 1 percent in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Avon said.  North America  Sales in North America fell 12 percent in the quarter, hurt
by Silpada and a decrease in the number of representatives. Avon
was disappointed with some product introductions and needs to
improve marketing and branding in its home market, McCoy said
during the call.  With sales representing about 15 percent of Avon’s  total 
revenue, the U.S. “is not business they can afford to ignore,”
Maneaty said in a telephone interview. Still, “the U.S. has had
issues for the better part of 10 or 20 years, so it’s not going
to be resolved any time soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  