-- Bakries to Pay $50 Million Deposit in Bumi Separation Agreement
-- B y   J o h n   V i l j o e n
-- 2013-02-12T20:27:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/bakries-to-pay-50-million-deposit-in-bumi-separation-accord-1-.html
The Bakrie Group agreed to pay a $50
million deposit by Feb. 15 under an accord that sets out the
terms of its separation from  Bumi Plc , the London-traded
Indonesian coal venture at the center of a battle for control.  The deposit payment “incentivizes the Bakrie Group to
secure the necessary cash to complete the deal” that will see
Bumi split from the Bakries and PT Bumi Resources, Bumi Chief
Executive Officer  Nick von Schirnding  said yesterday in a
statement.  The Bakries propose exchanging their 23.8 percent stake in
Bumi Plc for 10.3 percent of Bumi Resources owned by the London-
listed venture. The plan also calls for Bumi Plc to sell to the
Bakrie Group the remaining 18.9 percent of its Bumi Resources
stake for $278 million in cash, the statement shows.  The Bakries will be required to place the funds in escrow
within five business days of signing a final agreement on the
transaction, which needs the approval of Bumi Plc shareholders.  U.K. financier  Nathaniel Rothschild , who founded Bumi with
the Bakries in 2010, has accused management and Chairman  Samin Tan  of failing investors. He called a Feb. 21 vote to try to
replace its independent directors and install a new chairman and
CEO, while also pursuing a separation from the Bakries.  The creation of Bumi in 2010 bundled the assets of two coal
companies in a $3 billion deal. A boardroom feud and financial
probes in the U.K. and Indonesia have since prompted the Bakries
and Rothschild to seek to unwind their collaboration.  “A $50 million deposit is equivalent to 13 pence per Plc
share,” Rothschild said in a statement responding to Bumi.
“Since we launched our EGM, the stock has risen from 265 pence
to 404 pence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Viljoen in London at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  