-- Banks Must Boost Risk Oversight After Trading Scandals, FSB Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-02-12T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/banks-must-boost-risk-oversight-after-trading-scandals-fsb-says.html
Global regulators called on  banks  to
strengthen risk management and boost oversight in response to
recent scandals that have shaken faith in the financial system.  A survey of lenders by the Financial Stability Board found
that “significant gaps” persist in risk management, the group
said on its website. Nearly half of the companies in the study
don’t meet all the “fundamental” criteria for sound risk
governance, the FSB said.  Banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , UBS AG and Barclays
Plc have been hit by scandals ranging from rogue traders to
interest rate fixing. U.K.-based HSBC Holdings Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc both paid fines in the U.S. over failures to halt
the laundering of money in sanctioned countries such as Iran.  “These gaps need immediate attention by both supervisors
and firms,” the FSB said. “Recent headline events surrounding
activities at some large financial institutions underscore the
importance of promoting and implementing a sound risk culture.”  JPMorgan’s  chief investment office lost more than $6.2
billion in the first nine months of 2012, the company’s biggest-
ever trading loss. The lead trader responsible was nicknamed the
London Whale because his positions were so big.  The bank’s investigation into the affair found that its
employees were overwhelmed by the complexity of their bets, and
that the lender had an “error prone” risk modeling system that
involved cutting and pasting electronic data into a spreadsheet.  A trader at  UBS  was sentenced to seven years in prison on
Nov. 20 for fraud tied to a $2.3 billion loss, the largest from
unauthorized trading in U.K. history.  The FSB survey covered 36 banks and broker dealers
including  Deutsche Bank AG,   Banco Santander SA , and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.  The need for improvement in risk management is especially
pronounced at smaller banks and those based in emerging and
developing country economies, the FSB said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  