-- Barclays Cuts Risk 50% as Commodity Trading Staff Shrinks
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-02-12T16:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/barclays-says-2012-commodity-value-at-risk-was-cut-in-half-1-.html
Barclays Plc  said commodities
trading staff shrank by a third as value-at-risk, a measure of
how much the bank estimates it might lose in a single day, was
cut in half last year as the lender revamped its business.  The commodities unit has largely completed restructuring
and will focus on “core banking, financing and risk
management,” Chief Executive Officer  Antony Jenkins  said on a
conference call today. The bank said it stopped “speculative”
agriculture trading.  “As a result of these actions, trading headcount in
commodities is a third lower and the average value at risk for
this business reduced 50 percent in 2012,” Jenkins said on the
call.  Jenkins is reshaping Barclays after a 290 million-pound
($454 million) fine for interest-rate manipulation and today
announced plans to cut 3,700 jobs to reduce costs by 1.7 billion
pounds a year. Barclays rivals including Deutsche Bank AG are
also reducing commodities trading because of tighter regulation
in Europe and the U.S.  Daily average commodity value-at-risk fell to 6 million
pounds from 12 million pounds in 2011, the bank said today.  Full-year total income from fixed income, currencies and
commodities rose 17 percent to 7.4 billion pounds on “increased
liquidity and higher client volumes,” the bank said. Fourth-
quarter revenue was 50 percent higher from the year-earlier
period and 8 percent lower than the preceding three months, it
said. Barclays doesn’t break out commodities revenue.  Morgan Stanley said last month revenue in commodities was
“de minimus” in the fourth quarter, while Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. reported “significantly lower” income.  Deutsche Bank fired 10 to 12 European power and natural gas
traders in London and also made cuts in the U.S., according to
people with knowledge of the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  