-- Batteries for 787 Can’t Be Shipped on Passenger Planes
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-02-13T21:07:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/batteries-for-787-can-t-be-shipped-on-passenger-planes.html
(Corrects weight limit in fifth paragraph of story
published Feb. 12.)  Lithium-ion batteries like those
under investigation in the grounding of  Boeing Co. ’s 787
Dreamliner shouldn’t be shipped aboard passenger planes, a
United Nations aviation agency ruled today.  The International Civil Aviation Organization’s action
resulted from probes into 787 batteries that smoked and charred
last month in Boston and Japan, Anthony Philbin, a spokesman for
the agency in Montreal, said in an interview.  The action reverses an exemption in ICAO rules that had
allowed airlines to ship the 787’s lithium-ion batteries as
cargo on passenger flights, Philbin said. The exemption was
designed to make it easier for airlines that fly the 787, such
as  United Continental Holdings Inc. , to send replacement
batteries to maintenance facilities.  ICAO on Jan. 1 imposed tougher new general guidelines on
how lithium-based batteries such as those used in laptop
computers can be shipped on passenger and cargo aircraft because
they can spontaneously ignite. It required labeling the
batteries as hazardous and training airline employees who handle
the shipments. It also barred large shipments of batteries
aboard passenger planes.  The exemption had made it possible to ship lithium-ion
batteries as large as 77 pounds (35 kilograms) on passenger
flights, according to the ICAO provisions. It applied only to
batteries designed specifically for aircraft.  The only aircraft model on the market using lithium
batteries that are covered under the exemption is the 787.
Today’s action is temporary pending the outcome of the
investigations, Philbin said.  Airplane Grounded  Shipments of 787 batteries required by the current
investigations have been made on cargo aircraft, which is
permitted under ICAO guidelines,  Marc Birtel , a Boeing
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  The 787 was grounded by the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration Jan. 16 after an All Nippon Airways Co. plane
made an emergency landing in Japan because one of its two
lithium-ion batteries was smoking.  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board is
investigating a fire Jan. 7 aboard a Japan Airlines Co. plane’s
battery that burned after landing in Boston. Investigators have
identified a short-circuit in one of the battery cells as the
origin of the fire, NTSB Chairman  Debbie Hersman  said in a Feb.
7 press conference.  The ICAO lithium regulations don’t apply in the U.S.
because the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration said in a Jan. 7 filing that it was considering
exempting the nation’s carriers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  