-- BB&T Evaluates Court’s Rejection of BNY Foreign Tax Credits
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-02-12T21:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/bb-t-says-it-s-evaluating-court-s-rejection-of-bny-tax-credits.html
BB&T Corp.  is evaluating how a court
setback for  Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  on foreign-tax credits
will affect BB&T’s chances for getting a refund in a separate
$892 million U.S. tax dispute.  “The BNY decision is a long opinion that will take some
time to digest,” said David White, a spokesman for BB&T, North
Carolina’s second-largest bank by assets. “We continue to have
confidence in BB&T’s position because key issues raised in that
case are different from the issues BB&T intends to raise.”  BB&T wants to recover payments made after the Internal
Revenue Service objected to the bank’s use of foreign tax
credits and other deductions from 2002 to 2007, the company said
in its latest quarterly regulatory filing. The lender, based in
Winston-Salem, initially complied with the 2010 IRS demand for
$892 million in taxes, penalties and interest.  The bank then sought to recover money in court and booked
some of the anticipated proceeds as a receivable, according to
the November filing, meaning the bank expects to recoup the
money. The firm didn’t specify the size of the receivable and
also set aside an unspecified reserve, according to the
document.  The impact of an adverse outcome to the case could be
“significant,” John Pancari, an analyst for Evercore Partners
Inc., said today in a note to clients. If BB&T loses, the need
to reserve for the full $892 million could reduce tangible book
value by as much as $1.27 a share, he said in the note.  Case Rejected  BNY Mellon said yesterday the New York-based company will
take a charge of about $850 million after it was prohibited by
the U.S. Tax Court from claiming its foreign-tax credits. That
case focused on the firm’s use of financial dealings known as
STARS transaction.  “Management has consulted with outside counsel and
continues to believe that BB&T’s treatment of this transaction
was in compliance with applicable laws and regulations,” BB&T
wrote in the November filing.  The IRS’s demand for $892 million represents about 44
percent of BB&T’s reported annual profit of $2.03 billion in
2012. The stock gained 4.4 percent in the past 12 months through
yesterday, trailing the 24 percent gain the 24-company KBW Bank
Stock Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  