-- Berlusconi Surge May Be Halted by Pope During Poll Blackout
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-02-13T13:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/berlusconi-s-surge-may-be-halted-by-pope-during-poll-blackout.html
Former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s surge in support before elections this month may be
damped by Pope Benedict XVI’s resignation, which is dominating
media coverage in Italy during the run-up period in which
opinion polls are banned.  “The electoral campaign ended at 11:46 a.m.” on Feb. 11,
said pollster and political commentator Luigi Crespi, referring
to the time of the pope’s announcement.  News about Benedict’s decision, which makes him the first
pope to resign in almost 600 years, has dominated print and
television news coverage, overshadowing the election campaign
less than two weeks before the Feb. 24-25 vote. The pontiff’s
announcement came two days after the start of a poll blackout
designed to keep surveys from influencing voters before election
day. The ban will make it difficult to gauge the impact of
Benedict’s resignation on the race.  “Berlusconi needs broad media coverage to regain votes
because, looking at the polls, if elections were held today he’d
lose,”  Giovanni Orsina , a professor at Luiss Guido Carli
University in Rome, said by phone yesterday. “The fact that the
media are busy with something else for sure can hurt him.”  Berlusconi, a 76-year-old billionaire, has flooded the
airwaves with televised interviews, helping him narrow
frontrunner  Pier Luigi Bersani ’s lead by more than half. The
former premier, who owns the nation’s largest private
broadcaster, has used the appearances to attack his rivals and
attract voters, offering tax rebates to Italians weary of
recession and opposed to austerity measures enacted by outgoing
Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  Conflict, Confrontation  “An election campaign works if conflict, controversy and
confrontation are at the center of attention,” Crespi said.
“It’s this area that determines shifts in undecided voters.”
After such a “clamorous and exceptional event” as the
resignation, “the status quo prevails and it helps frontrunners
the most,” he said.  Bersani’s bloc maintained an average 6 percentage-point
lead over the former premier on Feb. 8, the day before the
blackout kicked in. The five polls published that day showed
that about 30 percent of potential voters remained undecided or
planned to abstain. Bersani’s lead was down from about 14
percentage points a month earlier and one major poll last week
had Berlusconi trailing by less than the 4 percentage-point
margin of error.  Investors Spooked  Berlusconi’s gains in the polls have rattled investors on
concern that, if elected, he would undo some of Monti’s reforms
and jeopardize Italy’s public finances with tax cuts. The yield
on Italy’s benchmark 10-year bond has gained 37 basis points
since Jan. 25 as Berlusconi’s gains became apparent.  While it’s difficult to say whether one of the candidates
may benefit from the announcement, the news may “cool down”
the heated tones of the campaign, Fabrizio Masia, head of
Italian pollster EMG, said in a phone interview yesterday.  The Vatican saga “will probably be given ample space by
the media in the next few days, I don’t know until when, and so
attention will be taken away from the political forces,” Masia
said. The pope will meet privately with Monti on Feb. 16 at 6
p.m. and with Italian President Giorgio Napolitano Feb. 23,
Vatican spokesman  Federico Lombardi  said at briefing with
reporters in Rome today. Benedict’s final general audience will
be Feb. 27.  First passed in 1993, the polling ban was implemented in
2000, when it became part of a broader law commonly called “par
condicio,” Latin for equal conditions, which seeks to balance
the time parties are afforded on TV and radio stations before
elections.  ‘Piece of Prehistory’  “It’s a piece of prehistory that has survived, but the
world has changed,” Maurizio Mensi, professor of information
and communication law at Luiss University in Rome, said in a
phone interview. “It reflects a world where TV was considered
an extraordinary tool to build consensus. Now it’s not like that
anymore, because citizens have tons of other ways to access
information.”  While the law forbids the publication and distribution of
poll results in the 15 days before an election, it does allows
pollsters to sell results to private clients, likely making
diffusion of results “inevitable,” said  Renato Mannheimer ,
head of polling company Ispo Ltd. In past blackout periods poll
figures have circulated on the Internet disguised as results of
fake horse races, he said.  Banned Application  Italian communications regulator AGCOM this month blocked
an initiative by the SWG institute to sell poll results on
smartphones and tablets for 9.99 euros ($13.4), even during the
blackout period. The application involved would have made
“results of surveys available to a potentially vast audience,
with inevitable effects of uncontrolled spread of information,”
the authority said in a  statement  posted on its website Feb. 6.  “Today a politician who wants to buy a poll” can do so,
“while thousands of citizens willing to spend 10 euros each to
have the same information can’t,” SWG said in an e-mailed
statement Feb. 7.  If the blackout holds, the next time Italians can gauge
voting intentions will be shortly after 3 p.m. on Feb. 25, when
the first exit polls are released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  