-- Biggest Banks and Housing Top House Republicans’ Agenda
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2013-02-12T19:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/biggest-banks-and-housing-top-house-republicans-finance-agenda.html
U.S. House Republicans responsible
for overseeing Wall Street banks plan to focus this year on
ending the notion of too-big-to-fail and overhauling housing
finance, according to a draft agenda to be reviewed this week.  Federal Reserve efforts to stimulate the economy in the
wake of the 2008 financial crisis and agencies implementing the
2010 regulatory overhaul will also come under scrutiny of the
House Financial Services Committee, the panel’s leader said in a
copy of the document obtained by Bloomberg News. The panel is
scheduled to vote on the oversight plan Feb. 14.  “The Dodd-Frank Act enshrines too-big-to-fail into law,
giving big financial institutions a government-guaranteed
advantage over those deemed too small to save,” Representative
 Jeb Hensarling  of Texas, the committee’s chairman, said in a
statement.  Lawmakers and regulators from both parties -- including Fed
Governor  Daniel Tarullo  -- have called for new efforts to limit
systemic risk, arguing that the 2010 law failed to curb the
growth of large banks that needed bailouts after  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc . collapsed in 2008. Representative  John Campbell , a
California Republican, plans to offer a bill today that would
shrink the biggest lenders by requiring them to hold more
capital, and other lawmakers plan to offer legislation similarly
designed to end too-big-to-fail.  Senate Committee  Senator  Tim Johnson , the South Dakota Democrat who leads
that chamber’s Banking Committee, said his panel will focus this
session on Dodd-Frank implementation, stabilizing the housing
market, approving expiring programs and “expeditiously”
considering nominations.  The committee panel will “focus on ways to reduce the
government footprint in the housing market while ensuring
access, affordability, stability and fairness in the mortgage
market,” Johnson said in a statement today.  “From protecting consumers and taxpayers from Wall Street
abuses, to providing the Federal Housing Administration with
additional tools to manage its finances while continuing to
serve American families, I believe we can and must find common
ground,” Johnson said.  Hensarling also has made housing one of his top issues,
beginning with a series of hearings on the financial condition
of the Federal Housing Administration. The House panel plans to
hold its second hearing on the agency tomorrow.  Housing Market  Hensarling is also looking to wind down  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac , the mortgage-finance companies that have operated
under U.S. conservatorship since they were seized amid soaring
losses in 2008. His panel will look for ways to stimulate the
housing market while examining proposals to end the two
government-sponsored enterprises, he said in the House document.  “The committee will examine the overall size of the GSEs’
footprint in various aspects of the housing finance system and
ways to reduce or constrain their large market share and develop
a vibrant, innovative and competitive private mortgage market,”
Hensarling said in the draft.  The 21-page House document also outlines plans to review
derivatives measures, the Financial Stability Oversight
Council’s systemic designation authority, implementation of the
Volcker rule ban on proprietary trading and the structure of the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The oversight plan isn’t final and is subject to change.
Democrats may also offer amendments to the document.  The Senate panel will monitor regulators implementing Dodd-
Frank, including Volcker and the consumer bureau. Officials from
seven agencies including the Fed and the consumer agency are
scheduled to testify on the financial-regulation law at a Feb.
14 hearing. The committee will approve its budget, rules and
subcommittee organization the same day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  