-- BlackRock Names Morgan Stanley’s Shedlin Finance Chief
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-02-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/blackrock-names-morgan-stanley-s-shedlin-finance-chief.html
BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest
asset manager, hired its long-time strategic and financial
adviser  Gary Shedlin  as chief financial officer to replace Ann
Marie Petach, who will move to a client-oriented role within the
firm.  Petach will be a senior managing director at BlackRock
Solutions, New York-based BlackRock said yesterday in a
statement. Shedlin, 49, a former vice chairman of investment
banking at Morgan Stanley, will join the firm in March and
become CFO after it reports its  first-quarter earnings  in April.  “Gary has an intimate knowledge of BlackRock and knows our
industry well,” Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of
BlackRock, said in the statement. “I am confident that he will
lead our finance operations as a partner in driving our business
through our next phase of disciplined growth.”  BlackRock has hired  executives  such as Philipp Hildebrand,
the former head of the Swiss central bank, to help expand
relationships with institutional clients overseas, and Linda
Robinson, who joined as head of marketing and communications in
2011 to oversee a five-year branding campaign. Fink also
revamped management as fund performance has trailed, including
replacing the group that oversees investment products with five
specialized units in August, the most sweeping overhaul since
BlackRock  acquired  Barclays Global Investors in 2009.  Shedlin will be responsible for BlackRock’s corporate-
finance functions such as accounting and tax, treasury and risk
management. He’ll also join BlackRock’s global executive
committee, which added eight executives during the
reorganization announced in August.  Brokerage Dispute  Shedlin joined Morgan Stanley in 2010 from Citigroup Inc.,
where he was chairman of the bank’s investment-banking effort
for financial institutions.  He was part of a team of investment bankers at Morgan
Stanley that last year were charged with assessing the value of
the brokerage jointly owned by Morgan Stanley and Citigroup. The
two banks were in a dispute over the value of the Morgan Stanley
Smith Barney business, which ended in an agreement for Morgan
Stanley to buy the rest of the unit in pieces through 2015.  Petach will work with client-offerings for public and
private pension funds. She previously was the treasurer at Ford
Motor Co., where she was responsible for pension, banking and
risk-management.  As part of the reorganization in August, BlackRock created
two client-oriented units that are responsible for distributing
products to investors, instead of relying on a single global
client group. The first one is made up of BlackRock Solutions,
the unit that advises financial institutions and governments on
hard-to-value assets, and the institutional group. The second
includes sales of iShares, BlackRock’s exchange-traded fund
business, and retail funds.  The company oversaw $3.79 trillion as of Dec. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  