-- Bridgewater Bets on Stocks as Cash Moves Into Market
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2013-02-12T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/bridgewater-bets-on-stocks-as-cash-moves-into-market.html
Bridgewater Associates LP, the $140
billion hedge fund founded by  Ray Dalio , is betting on global
stocks and oil as it expects money to move into equities and
other assets amid increased economic confidence.  Bridgewater, the world’s biggest hedge fund, is bullish on
stocks, oil, commodities and some currencies as it expects cash
to shift to riskier assets, co-chief investment officer  Bob Prince  said on a client conference call on Jan. 23.  “You want to be borrowing cash and hold almost anything
against it,” Prince said, according to a transcript of the call
obtained by Bloomberg News. “We are at a possible inflection
point right now with respect to the pricing of economic
conditions in markets and then the actual conditions that are
likely to occur.”  Global stocks  have rallied 10 percent in the past six
months as the U.S. housing market recovers, European leaders
take steps to contain their debt crisis, and reports in China
suggest economic growth is accelerating. This year will be a
“game changer” as investors reallocate money after risks such
as Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis recede, Dalio said last month
at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Investors
from David Tepper, who runs the $15 billion hedge fund Appaloosa
Management LP, to Carlyle Group LP co-founder David Rubenstein
have said they’re bullish on the U.S. economy.  A spokesman for Westport, Connecticut-based Bridgewater
declined to comment on the firm’s conference call.  ‘Bullish Shift’  Bridgewater likes oil because of the potential for falling
stockpiles at wholesalers and economic growth in the U.S. and
China, Prince said.  “If you get better growth in the U.S., better growth in
China, inventories coming down some, and then the incremental
supply coming down some -- we’re seeing some shifts in the
supply-demand balance in oil,” Prince said, according to the
transcript. “A bullish shift there for oil.”  Bridgewater, which is also betting on the price of gold to
increase, forecasts U.S. growth of about 2.5 percent, Prince
said during the call without citing a time period, according to
the transcript. Economists estimate an average increase of 2
percent in 2013 gross domestic product, according to a Bloomberg
survey of 82 respondents.  Not ‘Gangbuster’  “The point is not so much that we’re going to be in the
gangbuster period of growth,” Prince said during the call.
“It’s more that growth is likely to be better, particularly in
the United States, than it has been. It’s more of a movement of
capital. The money moving out the risk curve and into risk
assets won’t take much growth to trigger that kind of shift.”  Bridgewater is “long equities around the world” and
“generally shifting to long commodities positions,” Prince
said during the call. Hedge funds that make long bets are
anticipating the prices of various securities will rise. The
firm also has a “moderate long position in developed market
corporate credit,” he said.  Bridgewater is positive on currencies including the British
pound, Korean won, Mexican peso and Russian ruble, according to
a chart in the transcript showing the firm’s current views,
which Prince referred to during the call. The firm is bearish on
the Japanese yen, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar, the
chart shows.  Shorting Yen  The yen has dropped about 20 percent in the past six
months, the worst performer of 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, in
anticipation of the greater stimulus advocated by Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe. The Group of Seven nations pledged to avoid
devaluing their exchange rates in pursuit of stronger economic
growth, to calm concern the world is on the brink of a currency
war, officials from G-7 countries said today.  “We’re now short the yen, largely related to the change in
their balance of payment circumstances and, subsequent to that,
the emphasis on a more aggressive monetary policy,” Prince
said. “We are bullish on sterling, largely related to
differences in capital flows and the impacts of monetary policy
between the U.K., Europe and United States.”  The pound is coming off its biggest weekly gain since 2011
versus the euro amid speculation the Bank of England will
refrain from extending stimulus, while its European counterpart
may cut interest rates further. Sterling rose against all but
one of its 16 major counterparts last week after Bank of England
Governor-designate Mark Carney suggested current monetary policy
may be sufficient to support the economy even as he stands ready
to add more stimulus if needed. European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi said the recent appreciation of the euro could damp
inflation.  Bond Bets  Bridgewater is wagering on European bonds and betting
against those in the U.S., Japan, U.K. and Australia, the firm’s
chart shows. It’s bearish on emerging sovereign credit.  The move from cash to riskier holdings would support an
increase in the value of assets and improve balance sheets,
credit and economic growth, Prince said. That cycle will
continue only until the U.S. Federal Reserve moves toward
tighter policy, he said.  “You’re likely to do reasonably well until you hit the
tail end of that cycle, where you get the central banks pulling
back on liquidity,” Prince said. “That can continue for some
time until the Fed no longer continues to inject liquidity. That
would end that cycle and push all yields up which would, of
course, hurt asset returns.”  Bridgewater Pure Alpha rose 0.8 percent last year,
according to a table in the transcript. The fund has posted an
annual return of 14 percent since inception in 1991. Bridgewater
All Weather posted a 15 percent gain in 2012 and 9.4 percent
annual return since inception in 1996, according to another
table.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  