-- Broadcom to Begin Selling LTE Chips Challenging Qualcomm
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-02-12T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/broadcom-to-begin-selling-lte-chips-challenging-qualcomm.html
Broadcom Corp.  is supplying samples
of a mobile-phone chip that supports the fastest data speeds,
joining the race to try to break  Qualcomm Inc. ’s market
dominance.  Broadcom’s chip supporting the Long-Term Evolution, or LTE,
standard will probably begin generating revenue next year, Chief
Executive Officer  Scott McGregor  said in an interview.  McGregor is trying to build Broadcom’s success in other
areas of connectivity -- it’s the top provider of so-called
combo chips that deliver Wi-Fi and Bluetooth -- into a stake in
the market for phone modems and processors, where  Qualcomm 
leads. LTE capability will open up opportunities in markets such
as the U.S., Japan and South Korea, according to  Will Strauss ,
an analyst at Forward Concepts Co., based in Mesa, Arizona.  “There’s no way you get a top-tier phone in the U.S.
unless you’ve got LTE,” Strauss said. “Qualcomm and Samsung
pretty much owned the market last year.”  Qualcomm supplied 86 percent of the 47 million LTE-capable
chips shipped last year, while Samsung Electronics Co. supplied
9 percent to its own handset division, according to Strauss.
Qualcomm’s dominance will continue until next year, when other
companies such as Broadcom,  Nvidia Corp. ,  Intel Corp.  and
 Renesas Electronics Corp.  offer competing products, he said.  Broadcom, based in Irvine, California, will offer a chip
that has enhanced capabilities, including support for voice-over
LTE, and yet is smaller than current offerings, McGregor said.  “It really opens it up to customers and choice,” he said.
“Our product is very strong. These are advanced LTE products.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  