-- Burger King Suit Over Spit in Sandwich Revived by Court
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-02-12T20:17:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/burger-king-lawsuit-over-spit-in-meal-revived-by-appeals-court.html
A customer’s lawsuit against  Burger
King Corp.  claiming he was served a hamburger tainted by saliva
traced to an employee was revived by a federal appeals court
that said he can file a claim for emotional distress.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals in San
Francisco said Edward Bylsma can modify his lawsuit, which he
filed after he was allegedly served “a hamburger tainted with a
glob of saliva later traced by DNA back to one” of two
employees he encountered in 2009 at a Burger King in Vancouver,
Washington, according to the ruling today.  A federal judge in Oregon dismissed Bylsma’s product
liability and negligence lawsuit. The appeals court said Bylsma
can amend his complaint because the Washington Supreme Court
determined in January that the state’s product liability law
allows lawsuits for emotional distress caused by being “served
or touching, but not consuming” a contaminated food product
even if there’s no physical injury.  The appeals court sent the case back to the district court
with instructions to determine whether the modified lawsuit
contains enough facts to support emotional damages claims. The
Washington Supreme Court said such lawsuits can proceed if the
emotional distress “is a reasonable reaction,” the court said.  The lawsuit named Burger King and Kaizen Restaurants Inc.
as defendants.  Burger King’s media office didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail seeking comment on the decision.  Burger King, based in Miami, was taken private in 2010 by
investment firm 3G Capital Inc. and went public last year after
completing a merger with a firm owned by investor  William Ackman .  The case is Bylsma v. Burger King Corp., 10-36125, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  