-- Calpers Holds $5 Million in Gunmaker Equity it May Divest
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-02-13T00:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/calpers-finds-5-million-with-gunmakers-subject-to-divestment.html
The California Public Employees’
Retirement System, the largest U.S. pension, has about $5
million invested in two gun manufacturers that would be sold
under a divestiture proposal spurred by recent mass shootings.  The $254.2 billion fund didn’t name the companies in a
 report  to its governing board yesterday. It owned 196,664 shares
of  Smith & Wesson Holding Corp.  and 116,594  Sturm Ruger & Co. 
shares, as of Dec. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The companies are the biggest publicly traded U.S. gunmakers.
Both stakes were increased in the past quarter, the data show.  The pension’s administration board plans to consider a
recommendation by state Treasurer  Bill Lockyer , a member of the
governing panel, to divest holdings in companies that make
weapons prohibited in California. The state bans some types of
firearms and ammunition magazines that hold more than 10 rounds.
The  California State Teachers’ Retirement System  decided last
month to begin selling its stakes in gunmakers.  “Divestment from the makers of these products complies
with the board’s fiduciary duty and its investment policy, which
specifically allows divestment from manufacturers of products
that endanger public health,” Lockyer said about planned sales
by Calstrs, as the teachers fund is known.  The move was imitated by public funds across the U.S. in
the wake of the Dec. 14 killings of 20 children and six
educators at the Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown,
Connecticut.  Gunmaker Responds  Elizabeth Sharp  of  Smith & Wesson  said by e-mail that the
company has responded to the fund’s request for information.
 Kevin Reid  of  Sturm Ruger  didn’t respond to messages left by
telephone and e-mail seeking comment on fund divestitures.  The teachers plan, the second biggest U.S. pension with a
market value of $158 billion, had $2.9 million invested in Smith
& Wesson and Sturm Ruger, through index funds, when it decided
to divest such holdings.  The pension also held a stake in New York-based Cerberus
Capital Management LP. The private-equity firm owned Freedom
Group Inc., the maker of the Bushmaster AR-15 rifle that police
said was the primary weapon in the Sandy Hook attack.  The shooting, the second deadliest in U.S. history, ignited
a national debate over gun-control laws and stricter bans on
semiautomatic weapons such as the AR-15. California specifically
bans the Bushmaster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  