-- Cameron Faced by Must-Win Dilemma in Unparalleled Vote
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-02-12T17:32:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/cameron-faced-by-must-win-dilemma-in-unparalleled-vote.html
Britain’s two governing parties have
taken to the streets of Eastleigh campaigning for a special
election that has no parallel since World War II.  It’s more than 30 years since a governing party gained a
seat from another in an election to fill a vacancy in Parliament
in mid-term. The first coalition administration in 60 years
makes it difficult to apply that guideline: The Feb. 28 battle
in the southern English town is between the ruling partners.  Eastleigh is currently held by Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg ’s Liberal Democrats. In its 25-year history, the party has
never lost control of a seat in a by-election, as they’re known
in the U.K. Still, it’s never been in government before. The
vote is a test of whether Clegg can win back or replace voters
angry at his decision to go into coalition with  David Cameron ’s
Conservatives.  Cameron, whose party came second in the district in the
2010 general election, was kept from a parliamentary majority
then by his failure to win voters from the Liberal Democrats. If
he wants to win power in 2015 without the coalition that many of
his lawmakers hate, he’ll need to win seats like Eastleigh. The
opposition Labour Party trails in local polls.  “This is a prime example of a seat where Labour are
nowhere and the two coalition parties will have to fight each
other,” Justin Fisher, professor of politics at Brunel
University, said in an interview. “Whoever loses has a real
problem. If Cameron can’t win here, his party are going to ask
what he can do.”  Guilty Plea  Until last week Eastleigh was represented by  Chris Huhne ,
one of the Liberal Democrats’ most senior members. He resigned
the seat after pleading guilty to lying about who was driving
his car to avoid a speeding ticket. While the Conservatives have
said the campaign will be about trust, Huhne’s downfall doesn’t
mean the Liberal Democrats will lose the seat.  “I don’t think people are angry,” Malcolm Wing, a
lecturer in mechanical engineering at the local college, said in
an interview yesterday.  In 2010, the Liberal Democrats took 47 percent of the vote
in Eastleigh and the Conservatives 39 percent. Polls since the
by-election was announced have shown the two parties neck-and-
neck in the district.  Odds Cut  William Hill Plc today cut its odds on the Liberal
Democrats holding the seat, offering a profit of 8 pounds for
every 11 pounds bet if they win. The bookmaker offered 5 pounds
for every 4 pounds bet on the Conservatives. Paddy Power Plc
also had the Liberal Democrats as favorites.  For Cameron, currently 22 seats short of a majority in the
House of Commons, the main hope of winning outright in the next
general election in 2015 lies in taking votes from the Liberal
Democrats.  In 2010, Labour sank nationally to its lowest vote share
since 1983. Now it has a new leader,  Ed Miliband , and following
five years of his own coalition government’s austerity program,
Cameron cannot count on Labour’s vote share going any lower.  The Liberal Democrats, on the other hand, have been
punished by voters for going into coalition with the
Conservatives, and are polling nationally below half the level
they got in 2010.  According to Fisher, this benefits Cameron more than
Labour. “There are many more seats where the race is
Conservative-Liberal Democrat than Labour-Liberal Democrat,” he
said. “So in a seat like Eastleigh, if half the Lib Dem vote
goes to Labour, the Conservatives can still win.”  ‘Digging In’  Liberal Democrats counter that their party is very good at
“digging in” and holding seats, meaning a place like Eastleigh
could stay in their hands even if their vote collapsed
nationally.  Mike Thornton , the Liberal Democrat candidate chosen just
three days ago to replace Huhne, said their support locally is
strong.  “Get out there and talk to people,” he said in an
interview. “They trust us. In government we’ve restrained the
right wing of the Tory party. People here realize it’s worth
voting Liberal Democrat.”  That view isn’t universally shared in the district.  “The coalition has been a bit of a disaster for the
Liberal Democrats,” said Paul Bridgeman, 44, a mature student
who voted for the party in 2010 after previously supporting the
Conservatives. “I’m probably swaying in the Labour direction,
looking at where the Conservatives are going on Europe,
immigration and health.”  Tuition Fees  Support for the Liberal Democrats has partly been hit by
their reversal since the election of a policy not to increase
college tuition fees.  Jeanette Foote, 53, voted Liberal Democrat in 2010. “We
were disappointed when they went into the coalition,” said the
housekeeper. “I don’t know which way to vote now. None of them
keep their word.”  Clegg, on his first campaign visit to the seat yesterday,
said a battle between the two coalition parties could be
civilized. “We can spell out our differences in a way that’s
not acrimonious,” he told reporters.  The deputy prime minister has gone for a snap campaign,
calling the vote for the first available date and aiming to
capitalize on his party’s local organization. Liberal Democrats
hold 40 of the 44 seats on the local council, and according to
Thornton, who said they began discussing how they would handle
this situation “about a year ago,” around the time Huhne was
charged.  Tory Candidate  The Conservatives also have a candidate in place. Maria
Hutchings, 51, rose to prominence after confronting Labour Prime
Minister  Tony Blair  about disabled children on a television show
during the 2005 election. She fought the seat for the
Conservatives in 2010. In media interviews last week, she came
out against Cameron’s position in a series of policy areas,
opposing gay marriage and membership of the European Union.  While this may stop her from losing votes to the U.K.
Independence Party, which many Conservatives see taking votes
off them by calling for an exit from the EU and opposing same-
sex marriage, it pits her against Cameron’s efforts to change
the image of her party.  “She’s her own person,” Conservative Communities
Secretary  Eric Pickles  told reporters during a visit to the
district yesterday. “She’s not out of central casting. That’s a
good thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in Eastleigh, England, at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  