-- Canadian Stocks Rise as Cnooc Wins U.S. Approval for Nexen Deal
-- B y   E r i c   L a m
-- 2013-02-12T21:31:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/canadian-stocks-rise-as-cnooc-wins-u-s-approval-for-nexen-deal.html
Canadian  stocks  rose as energy
companies advanced after Cnooc Ltd. won approval to acquire the
U.S. assets of  Nexen Inc . and crude oil climbed to the highest
price in more than a week.  Nexen gained 2 percent as Cnooc cleared the last regulatory
hurdle for the Chinese company’s $15.1 billion acquisition of
the energy producer.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd.  rose 3.4
percent as crude gained 0.5 percent. Gran Tierra Energy Inc.
jumped 7.4 percent after the company announced an oil discovery
in Peru.  Agrium Inc.  lost 2 percent after appointing two
directors to its board as talks to avert a proxy fight with
activist investor Jana Partners LLC fell apart.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  rose 40.87
points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,789.02 in Toronto. The S&P/TSX has
risen 3.2 percent over the past 12 months, underperforming every
developed market in the world except Italy and Spain, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Giving the TSX a bit of a lift today is the final
approval for the Nexen-Cnooc deal,” said  Michael O’Brien ,
director and fund manager with TD Asset Management Inc. in
Toronto. He manages about C$3 billion ($3 billion). “It’s a bit
of a relief that we have a firm date now.”  Energy stocks  contributed  most to gains in the S&P/TSX as
eight of 10 industries advanced. Trading volume was 2.6 percent
above the 30-day average at this time of the day.  Nexen-Cnooc  Nexen , based in Calgary, climbed 55 Canadian cents to
C$27.48. The Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S.
approved the deal between Nexen and Cnooc, China’s biggest oil
and natural gas producer. The acquisition is expected to close
the week of Feb. 25, Nexen said in a statement today. Nexen owns
oil and gas drilling and platforms in the Gulf of Mexico,
accounting for about 8 percent of its output.  Canadian Natural Resources gained C$1.04 to C$31.55 to pace
 gains  among energy companies.  Crude for March delivery added 48 cents to settle at $97.51
a barrel in New York, the highest level since Feb. 1. The
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries boosted a demand
forecast for its crude, saying it will have to provide 29.8
million barrels a day in 2013, a 0.3 percent increase from a
January estimate.  Gran Tierra  rose 41 cents to C$5.95 after finding crude oil
in the Bretana Norte well of Block 95 in the Peruvian Amazon
jungle. Gran Tierra is testing the reservoir’s productivity and
expects results in late February.  Toromont, Agrium  Toromont Industries Ltd. advanced 2.8 percent to C$22.90
after  Ben Cherniavsky , analyst with Raymond James Ltd., raised
his rating for the stock to outperform from market perform while
increasing his price target to C$25.75 from C$21. The equipment
dealer reported fourth-quarter adjusted  earnings  of 59 cents a
share, compared with analysts’ consensus estimate of 45 cents.  Agrium fell C$2.29 to C$112.71. The largest agricultural
retailer in North America appointed  Mayo Schmidt , former chief
executive officer of Canadian grain handler Viterra Inc., and
 David Everitt , a retired Deere & Co. executive, at the end of
three days of talks with Jana that failed to reach a compromise.  Jana, the New York-based hedge fund, is Agrium’s largest
 shareholder  with a 6.2 percent stake and has sought to replace
five of Agrium’s 11 directors. The activist investor has said
the current board lacks experience in farm-product retailing and
has also proposed spinning off Agrium’s retail network to boost
profitability.  TransCanada Corp.  lost 1.4 percent to C$47.56 after posting
fourth-quarter profit  short  of analysts’ expectations. The
Calgary-based company, which transports 20 percent of North
America’s natural gas, said profit fell as shipments of the fuel
on some pipelines declined.  Alacer Gold Corp.  slumped 8.4 percent to C$4.16, its lowest
since May 2010, after the company that explores for gold in
Australia and Turkey had its rating reduced to underweight from
neutral at JPMorgan by analyst Joseph Kim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Lam in Toronto at 
 elam87@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  