-- Canada Dollar Gains From 2-Week Low as Oil Discount Lower
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-02-12T22:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/canadian-dollar-falls-as-g-7-says-won-t-target-currencies.html
Canada’s dollar rose from the
weakest this month versus its U.S. counterpart as the discount
the nation’s crude oil trades at compared with the American
benchmark was at its lowest level in more than three months.  The Canadian currency gained for the first time in four
days as China’s Cnooc Ltd. won approval to acquire the U.S.
assets of Nexen Inc., the last regulatory hurdle to complete the
$15.1 billion takeover of the Canadian oil producer. The
currency’s gains came even after Bank of Canada Governor Mark
Carney reiterated to lawmakers that the need to raise  interest
rates  is “less imminent than previously anticipated.”  “The Western Canada Select-West Texas Intermediate spread,
the narrowing of that spread, is helping the Canadian dollar
today, that along with broad U.S. dollar selling,”  Greg Moore ,
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said in a
telephone interview from Toronto. “That differential is
probably going to get a little more attention over the next
little while.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.3 percent to
C$1.0023 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. Earlier it
declined to C$1.0087, the weakest since Jan. 28. One Canadian
dollar buys 99.77 U.S. cents.  The U.S. dollar fell against 13 of its 16 most-traded
counterparts.  Bearish Traders  Options traders were the most bearish on the loonie in two
weeks, with the three-month 25-delta risk-reversal rate reaching
as high as 1.16 percentage point, the most since Jan. 29. The
rate shows the premium charged for the right to buy the U.S.
dollar versus contracts to sell. It touched 0.91 percentage
point on Feb. 5, the least in more than a week.  Canadian government bonds fell, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year  note  up two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 1.99 percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in
June 2022 dropped 20 cents to C$106.39. Two-year yields
increased one basis point to 1.12 percent.  The government will auction C$3.3 billion ($3.29 billion)
of two-year notes tomorrow. The 1 percent securities are due in
May 2015.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, climbed to the highest
level in more than a week as OPEC boosted a demand forecast.
Futures on crude rose 0.6 percent to $97.56 per barrel in New
York and reached $97.79, the highest since Feb. 1.  Price Differential  Canada’s  discount  for its heavy oil to U.S. West Texas
Intermediate increased in recent months because of a lack of
pipeline infrastructure to reach markets. The differential for
Western Canada Select to the North American benchmark touched
$23.75 for a second day, the narrowest level on a closing basis
since Oct. 24, before trading at $24. The discount reached a
record $42.50 a barrel on Dec. 14.  “The oil story is something that should be on everyone’s
screen, that spread and how it behaves, because it’s a billion-
dollar difference every month in trade for Canada,”  Adam Button , a currency analyst at Forexlive.com, said by telephone
from Montreal. “It’s the difference between a trade deficit and
a trade surplus.”  Canadian companies are forgoing about C$2.5 billion a month
because of the lower prices, according to an estimate by
Houston-based investment bank PPHB Securities LP. The
differential is costing the Canadian economy C$27 billion a
year, Doug Horner, Alberta’s finance minister, said in an
interview Jan. 18.  Deal Impact  The acquisition of Calgary-based Nexen by the Chinese oil
producer was approved by the Committee on Foreign Investment in
the U.S., Nexen said in a statement released on CNW today. The
panel had jurisdiction because Nexen has oil and gas drilling
and platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. The deal is now expected to
close the week of Feb. 25.  “Cnooc’s takeover of Nexen cleared the last regulatory
hurdle, so people are trying to judge what the impact of that
will be,”  Darcy Browne , managing director of currencies at
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit,
said by phone from Toronto. “It should be in some form net
buying of Canadian dollars. Unless you’re on the inside it’s
hard to judge, but we know 25-30 percent of the equity is held
in Canadian hands. What we do know is that more than likely it
should be some form of Canadian-dollar positive.”  The loonie fell earlier against its U.S. counterpart as the
Group of Seven nations pledged not to devalue their currencies
in the pursuit of stronger economic growth. Their statement
didn’t criticize Japan, whose currency has weakened 8 percent
against the greenback this year amid government promises to step
up stimulus.  An official from a G-7 nation later said the statement was
misinterpreted and the group is concerned about excess moves in
the Japanese currency.  On ‘Sidelines’  “The Canadian dollar is very much on the sidelines of the
broader debates which are going around markets right now, which
is the currency-war theme,”  Jane Foley , senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International, said by phone from London.
“Whether or not Canada can win back some ground, that’s
definitely a potential, but not until the Bank of Canada drops
its more dovish tone.”  The Bank of Canada on Jan. 23 pared its forecast on Jan. 23
for economic growth this year to 2 percent, from an October
prediction of 2.3 percent, and Carney said an increase in the 1
percent benchmark interest rate was less urgent. Carney repeated
the outlook today in testimony to the House of Commons finance
committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  