-- Cangene Antidote for Bioterror Toxin Wins Advisers’ Support
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-02-12T21:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/cangene-antidote-for-bioterror-toxin-wins-advisers-support-1-.html
Cangene Corp. ’s experimental
antidote for a toxin considered a bioterrorism threat won the
support of U.S. regulatory advisers.  Animal studies to determine if the antitoxin for botulism
works and research on safety in humans are sufficient, along
with data from limited government use, to determine that the
benefits outweigh the risks, a panel of 14 advisers to the Food
and Drug Administration voted unanimously today. Cangene, based
in Winnipeg, Canada, currently supplies the antitoxin to the
U.S. government under an emergency-use exemption.  Regulators may decide on Cangene’s application for full FDA
approval by March 20, according to a  report  by agency staff last
week. The U.S. awarded Cangene in 2006 a contract now valued at
$476 million for late-state development of the antitoxin and
200,000 doses, according to the arm of the Department of Health
and Human Services responsible for the nation’s approach to
preparing vaccines and drugs for national emergencies.  Cangene  rose  3.9 percent to C$2.91 at the close of trading
in Toronto. The shares have surged 57 percent since the start of
the year.  The company reported $111 million in revenue for the fiscal
year ended in July.  Monkey Study  Botulism causes paralysis that can lead to death once the
airway and breathing muscles stop moving. An average of  110
cases  of botulism are reported each year, according to the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration.  The botulinum toxin can be used as a bioterror weapon if
deliberately released as an aerosol or in food or drink.
Naturally occurring cases can occur in food or drink as well,
often in inadequately canned foods, and contaminated wounds,
according to the Center for Biosecurity of the University of
Pittsburgh Medical Center in Baltimore, Maryland.  In a study on monkeys, 14 of 30 that received the Cangene
antitoxin survived compared to none out of 30 in a placebo group
that had been infected with botulism. The FDA has suggested
Cangene use a registry to further study the safety and efficacy
of the antitoxin for three years post-approval, according to the
report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  