-- Carney Wants Short Transition to New Bank Governor
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2013-02-12T18:58:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/carney-wants-short-transition-to-new-bank-governor.html
Mark Carney  wants a short transition
between him and the new Bank of Canada Governor before he leaves
to head the Bank of England later this year.  Carney said his “commitment” is “to ensure that there is
a seamless transition to the next governor,” during testimony
to the House of Commons finance committee in Ottawa today.  Canada is looking for a new central bank chief after
Carney’s surprise announcement in November that he will take
over the London-based institution on July 1, and vacate his
Canadian post a month before that. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg have predicted the most likely replacement is Senior
Deputy Governor  Tiff Macklem , who made his regular trip with
Carney to today’s hearing.  “My intention is to serve to June 1, the ideal obviously
will be that there is a short transition, not too long, but
there is a short overlap to assist that individual in taking
charge,” Carney said. “I am highly confident that the
institution will be well served by the next governor, whoever he
or she is.”  The new governor will be appointed by the federal cabinet,
based on a recommendation from the outside directors on the Bank
of Canada’s  board . Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said in a Jan.
16 statement he will interview “qualified candidates.”  The job has a seven-year renewable term and the salary
range for last year was C$431,800 ($430,800) to C$507,900. The
job posting called for “unquestioned technical competence” in
monetary policy, and the last three governors have had a
doctorate in economics. It also says the position requires “a
highly developed understanding of the financial sector” as well
as “exceptional communications skills” and ability in both
English and French.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  