-- Carnival Ship Towed to U.S. Amid Passenger Complaints
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-12T23:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/carnival-ship-towed-to-mobile-amid-passenger-complaints.html
Carnival Corp.  is towing its
stricken Triumph cruise ship, which suffered an engine room fire
two days ago, to Mobile, Alabama, instead of to Progreso,
Mexico, as passengers complain about conditions onboard.  When the first tugboat arrived last night, the ship had
drifted about 90 miles (145 kilometers) north of its previous
location off the coast of Mexico because of strong currents and
was almost equidistant from Mobile, Carnival said in a statement
last night. Towing the ship with the current to Alabama was the
preferred option, the company said.  Brent Nutt, in an  interview  with CNN today, said his wife,
who is a passenger on the Triumph, told him the toilets are
overflowing and people are getting sick. He also said his wife
told him the ship had been listing and passengers weren’t
getting enough food.  The ship, with more than 3,100 guests, left Galveston,
Texas, on Feb. 7 on what was to have been a four-day voyage with
a stop in Cozumel, Mexico, ending yesterday. The fire was put
out by the ship’s automatic extinguishing systems and no
injuries were reported to guests or the 1,086 crew members,
Carnival said. The U.S. Coast Guard and National Transportation
Safety Board said today they’ve started an investigation into
the cause of the fire.  The Triumph has maintained emergency generator power since
the fire and the onboard technical team has been gradually
restoring electricity to some basic hotel functions. The company
has said toilets are operational in certain sections of the
ship.  ‘Terribly Sorry’  “We’re terribly sorry for the inconvenience, discomfort,
and frustration our guests are feeling,” Miami-based Carnival
said in the statement yesterday. “We know they expected a
fantastic vacation, and clearly that is not what they
received.”  “The ship was listing 4.5 degrees earlier due to 25 mile-
per-hour winds with no impact to the ship’s safety,” Vance
Gulliksen, a spokesman for Carnival, said in an e-mail today.
“Since the towing got underway the listing has been reduced
significantly and is now 2 degrees.”  Carnival, the world’s largest cruise operator, said it
expects the ship to arrive in Mobile some time on Feb. 14 and
will provide transportation to take passengers home.  All passengers will receive a full refund and credit toward
another cruise, the company has said. The Triumph’s next two
voyages, set to leave yesterday and Feb. 16, have been canceled.
Those guests will also receive a full refund and 25 percent
discount on future sailings.  Lost Revenue  The incident will cost Carnival 5 cents to 10 cents a share
in earnings in the fiscal first quarter, accounting for lost
revenue, passenger reimbursements and repairs,  Timothy Conder ,
an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities, said in a report
yesterday.  “We note that historically, incidents such as this have
not had any noticeable impact on bookings,” Conder said. He
rates the stock a buy.  There have been more than 90 fires aboard cruise ships
since 1990, according to Jim Walker, a South Miami attorney who
writes a  blog  about cruise industry-related law. They included
an engine room fire on Carnival’s Splendor more than two years
ago, which also cut short a cruise.  Costa Concordia, a Carnival ship, ran aground off the coast
of Italy on Jan. 13 of last year, leaving 32 people dead. The
company faces at least 11 lawsuits in connection with the
accident, according to a regulatory filing.  Carnival shares rose less than 1 percent to $39.02 at the
close in New York. They have gained 6.1 percent so far this
year, compared with a 6.5 percent advance in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  