-- McGraw-Hill Facing Fraud Lawsuit Reports S&P Sales at Record
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-02-12T23:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/mcgraw-hill-facing-fraud-case-poised-to-show-best-year-since-07.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. , accused by the
U.S. of misleading investors about the risks of mortgage bonds
that helped ignite the credit crisis, reported the highest sales
at its Standard & Poor’s unit since at least 2010, while posting
a net loss because of the divestiture of its education unit.  McGraw-Hill reported a revenue increase of 22 percent at
its financial operations to $1.23 billion in the fourth quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The New York-based firm
posted a net loss of $216 million as it took a charge on its
pending education division sale to Apollo Global Management LLC,
classifying the unit as a “discontinued operation.” Bond sales
from the U.S. to Europe and Asia  climbed  20.4 percent last year
to a record $3.96 trillion.  “Bond issuance is humming along,”  Ed Atorino , a media
analyst at Benchmark Co. in New York who forecasts McGraw-Hill
will outperform its peers over the next six to 12 months, said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “S&P’s a cash machine.”  The parent of S&P, the world’s largest credit-ratings
company, benefited in 2012 as corporate issuers raced to lock in
yields at unprecedented lows with the  Federal Reserve  holding
down interest rates to revive the economy. The Justice
Department, alleging S&P inflated ratings on mortgage-backed
securities and collateralized debt obligations to win business
from Wall Street banks, is seeking about $5 billion in
penalties, equivalent to more than five years of profit.  ‘Extraordinarily Robust’  “The government says that it is seeking more than $5
billion in penalties,”  Kenneth Vittor , the company’s chief
counsel, said on today’s earnings call. “The complaint includes
specifics on only about $500 million.”  “We intend to defend the company vigorously,” Vittor
said.  McGraw-Hill  reported earnings per share, excluding certain
items, of 72 cents and, and it said in a statement that it
expects to earn $3.10 to $3.20 per share in 2013. The S&P
ratings unit had record sales of $584 million, up from $434
million a year ago.  “The ratings business is extraordinarily robust,”  Peter Appert , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in San Francisco, said
in a telephone interview before the report.  Jason Feuchtwanger , a McGraw-Hill spokesman in New York,
declined to comment on the company’s performance before the
fourth-quarter earnings report. The company said on Feb. 5 the
Justice Department’s lawsuit is without merit.  Rising Issuance  Credit raters have benefited as bond issuance has increased
with yields on corporate debt from the riskiest to the most
creditworthy reaching a record low 3.24 percent on Dec. 28,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global Corporate
& High Yield index.  Moody’s Corp., owner of the second-largest ratings firm,
said Feb. 8 that fourth-quarter profit increased 66 percent from
the year-earlier period. Net income climbed to $160.1 million
from $96.2 million.  Founded in 1888, McGraw-Hill is a Nationally Recognized
Statistical Rating Organization, a designation from the
Securities and Exchange Commission that allows investors to use
its grades to meet regulatory requirements. S&P provided 45
percent of all outstanding ratings in 2011 and has grades on
debt from sovereigns to financial institutions, according to an
SEC annual report on the industry issued in November.  Reforms Needed  The ratings companies are in need of “fundamental
regulatory reforms,”  Sheila Bair , a senior adviser to The Pew
Charitable Trusts and a former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
chairman, said today in a Bloomberg Television interview. She
questioned why other ratings firms haven’t been sued alongside
S&P for alleged fraud.  “I’m not surprised that McGraw is really coming out
swinging on this,” Bair said. “This could be their survival.”  A U.S. complaint filed Feb. 4 in federal court in Los
Angeles includes at least 58 examples of S&P executives ignoring
internal warnings from analysts and others, dismissing relevant
data, taking steps to appease issuers or acknowledging how
pressure from banks could lessen the quality of its grades or
delay downgrades.  Issuers choose rating companies to rate their securities.
Fees reached $150,000 for rating a residential mortgage-backed
security and $750,000 for a so-called synthetic collateralized-
debt obligation, in which the underlying collateral is credit
derivatives, including credit-default swaps, according to the
complaint.  Share Plunge  McGraw-Hill’s  market capitalization , which reached a five-
year high of $16.2 billion at the start of the month, has
plunged since the company said it anticipated the lawsuit would
be filed, reaching $12.2 billion today with shares closing at
$44.03 in New York trading.  The company’s $400 million of 6.55 percent bonds due
November 2037 have dropped almost 12.5 cents from last month to
104.8 cents on the dollar as of yesterday to yield 6.17 percent,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  “The issue isn’t going away,”  Mark Palmer , an equity
analyst for BTIG LLC, a trading firm in New York, said yesterday
in a telephone interview. “And frankly, it’s more likely going
to get worse because we don’t know how many new additional
lawsuits are going to be filed going forward.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  