-- Christie Challenger Buono Cited for No Seatbelt in Crash
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-02-12T19:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/christie-challenger-buono-cuts-forehead-in-car-accident.html
New Jersey Senator  Barbara Buono ,
the presumptive Democratic opponent of Governor  Chris Christie ,
was cited for not wearing a seatbelt during a car accident last
night that left her with a cut on her forehead.  Buono, 59, was in the back seat and was being driven home
by a staff assistant when the 2012 Jeep Wrangler she was riding
in collided with an oncoming vehicle after a campaign event in
Franklin Township. She was taken as a precaution to a hospital,
where she was treated and released. Neither driver was injured,
according to David Turner, her campaign spokesman.  An investigation determined that the aide, 23-year-old
Nicolas Rodriguez, pulled into traffic and failed to yield to an
oncoming 2012 Ford Escape, police Sergeant Philip Rizzo said in
a statement. Rodriguez was issued a summons for careless
driving, according to the statement.  “Thanks for all the well wishes,” Buono said on her
campaign Twitter account. “Grateful everyone’s fine. Don’t make
same mistake as me: wear a seatbelt no matter where you’re
sitting.”  Under a 2010 New Jersey law, all motor-vehicle passengers
in New Jersey are required to wear a safety belt, even when
sitting in the back seat, or face a fine of $46.  Corzine Crash  Former Governor  Jon Corzine , a one-term Democrat, lost more
than half his blood and broke 15 bones in 2007 when his state
police-driven Chevrolet Suburban crashed on the Garden State
Parkway near Atlantic City. Corzine wasn’t wearing a seatbelt
while sitting in the front passenger seat of the vehicle, which
was going 91 miles (146 kilometers) per hour.  After his recovery, Corzine made a public-service
announcement about the importance of buckling up.  Buono, an attorney who has served in the Legislature since
1994, became the only Democrat to declare her candidacy when she
filed papers with state election officers in December. She
formally kicked off her campaign Feb. 2. Other potential
Democratic candidates for governor, including Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , Senate President  Stephen Sweeney  and Senator  Richard Codey , opted not to challenge Christie.  Christie, 50, a first-term Republican with approval ratings
above 70 percent in recent polls, holds a 42 percentage point
lead over Buono in a Rutgers-Eagleton poll released today.
Christie had out-raised Buono 10-fold through December and
garnered endorsements from some Democrats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  