-- Clearwire Posts Wider Loss Than Estimated as Sprint Deal Looms
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-02-12T21:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/clearwire-posts-wider-loss-than-estimated-as-sprint-deal-looms.html
Clearwire Corp. , the wireless-
Internet provider that agreed to a  Sprint Nextel Corp.  takeover
in December, reported a wider loss than estimated and an 8
percent decline in subscribers.  The loss from continuing operations was 30 cents a share,
the Bellevue, Washington-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts had predicted a loss of 27 cents, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales slipped to $311.2 million,
compared with an average estimate of $312.8 million.  Sprint, which owns slightly more than 50 percent of the
money-losing company, is attempting to buy out the rest of the
shares so that it can use Clearwire’s airwaves to bolster its
own network. In December, the companies agreed to a deal at a
price of $2.97 a share. Clearwire is also evaluating a $3.30
counterbid from Dish Network Corp., though that offer is more
complex and may require Sprint’s consent to be completed.  Clearwire shares were little changed today, closing at
$3.18 in New York. The stock has climbed 10 percent this year, a
signal investors expect Clearwire to fetch a higher price than
Sprint’s $2.97 offer.  Clearwire said today that “substantial doubt may arise
regarding our ability to continue as a going concern” if it
fails to complete the Sprint deal, reiterating earlier remarks.
Chief Executive Officer  Erik Prusch  has said that the company
may have to restructure if it doesn’t get a transaction done.
Blackstone Group LP has been advising the company on
restructuring options.  Sprint Financing  When Sprint made its takeover bid, it offered Clearwire
$800 million in additional financing in the form of exchangeable
notes. The agreement followed a separate deal between Sprint and
Tokyo-based Softbank Inc., which is buying a 70 percent
ownership in the carrier for $20 billion. Clearwire said earlier
this month that it hasn’t drawn on financing offered by Sprint,
looking to keep its options open.  Sprint and Clearwire had forged a joint venture in 2008 to
build a nationwide wireless network, backed by $3.2 billion in
investments from  Google Inc. , Intel Corp. and cable companies.
After losses piled up, partners such as Google and Time Warner
Cable Inc. sold their stakes for a fraction of their original
value.  This isn’t the first time Clearwire has warned of a
potential funding shortfall. In November 2010, the company said
it didn’t have enough money to afford 12 more months of
operation. The company cut 15 percent of its staff and raised
cash through the sale of debt and equity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  