-- Cnooc Wins Final Approval for $15.1 Billion Nexen Buy
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-13T03:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/cnooc-wins-final-approval-for-15-1-billion-nexen-buy.html
Cnooc Ltd. , China’s biggest offshore
oil and natural gas producer, won approval to acquire the U.S.
assets of Nexen Inc., its last regulatory hurdle in the $15.1
billion purchase of the Canadian energy company.  The Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S. approved
the deal, now expected to close the week of Feb. 25, Nexen said
in a statement yesterday. The panel reviews takeovers by
foreign-owned companies for national security implications.
Cnooc’s acquisition of the Calgary-based company falls under
U.S. jurisdiction because of Nexen’s Gulf of Mexico oil and gas
operations, which account for about 8 percent of its output.  Cnooc’s acquisition, the biggest overseas purchase by a
Chinese company, prompted changes in the way Canada reviews
takeovers of oil sands operators by state-controlled companies.
The Canadian government approved the deal in December,
announcing at the same time that it would prohibit future state-
owned acquisitions in the oil sands barring “exceptional
circumstances.”  Investors have been betting on U.S. approval,  Sam La Bell ,
an analyst at Veritas Investment Research in Toronto, said in a
Feb. 11 phone interview. Nexen rose 2 percent to C$27.48 in
Toronto yesterday, the highest price since June 2009. In U.S.
trading, Nexen climbed to $27.43, 7 cents less than Cnooc’s
offer of $27.50 a share. Markets in Hong Kong and China were
closed today for holidays.  North Sea  Nexen also has oil and gas operations in the U.K. North Sea
and offshore West Africa. The deal gives Cnooc control of the
Buzzard field in the North Sea, the largest contributor to the
Forties crude grade that usually determines the Brent benchmark
used to price more than half the world’s oil.  Cnooc, controlled by the Chinese government, and Nexen said
Nov. 27 they would withdraw and resubmit their application with
the U.S. committee, without providing a reason. The companies
also received clearance from the U.K., the European Union and
China, according to a Jan. 27 statement.  Nexen and its oil sands assets will add about 23 percent to
Cnooc’s production this year and very little to earnings per
share, according to James Hubbard, Hong Kong-based head of Asia
oil and gas research at Macquarie Group Ltd., who has an
outperform rating on Cnooc shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  