-- Coca-Cola Profit Rises on Healthier Drinks as Volume Trails
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-02-12T21:27:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/coca-cola-fourth-quarter-profit-advances-as-north-america-gains.html
Coca-Cola Co. , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, said fourth-quarter profit rose 13 percent as
sales of non-carbonated drinks in North America such as Powerade
helped counter lower demand in Europe.  Net income climbed to $1.87 billion, or 41 cents a share,
Atlanta-based Coca-Cola said today in a statement. Excluding
restructuring costs and other items, profit was 45 cents a
share, compared with the 44-cent average of 13 analysts’
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent  is working to meet
growing consumer demand for healthier beverages with products
such as Simply Orange, Honest Tea and Powerade. Global volume
sales rose 3 percent in the quarter, trailing the 5.4 percent
growth estimated by  Mark Swartzberg , an analyst at Stifel
Financial in New York, who has a hold rating on the shares.  “Global diversification continues to pay dividends for the
company even though you might have a little bit of softness in
some regions like Europe, China or North American carbonated
soft drinks,”  Thomas Mullarkey , an analyst for  Morningstar Inc .
in Chicago, said today in an interview. “It’s still able to
grow unit case volume globally.”  Mullarkey has a three-star rating on the shares, the
equivalent of a hold.  Global Volume  Coca-Cola  fell  2.7 percent to $37.56 at the close in New
York. The shares have increased 3.6 percent this year, compared
with a 6.5 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Revenue advanced 3.8 percent to $11.46 billion. Analysts
 estimated  $11.5 billion. A year earlier, net income totaled
$1.66 billion, or 36 cents a share, on revenue of $11 billion.  North American volume sales rose 1 percent in the quarter.
Sparkling beverage volume in the region declined 2 percent,
while still beverage volume advanced 8 percent, driven by demand
for the Powerade energy drink.  The sluggish European economy damped demand in the region,
where volume sales declined 5 percent. Stifel’s Swartzberg said
analysts were anticipating volume in Europe to be little
changed. Euro-area economic data due this week are expected to
show the worst quarterly decline in output for almost four
years.  European Declines  Euro-area gross domestic product shrank 0.4 percent in the
fourth quarter, according to the median of 45 estimates gathered
by Bloomberg News. That would be the biggest decline since the
first quarter of 2009, when GDP fell 2.8 percent in the wake of
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The data is due to
be published on Feb. 14.  The company, which now bottles about 80 percent of its
drinks volume sold in the U.S., announced today it was paring
the number of distribution regions in its bottling unit to cut
costs and improve efficiency.  The Coca-Cola Refreshments bottling unit will be reduced
from seven into three regional territories -- East, Central and
West. Kent has worked to restructure distribution in the U.S.
since  buying  the North American operations of Coca-Cola
Enterprises Inc. in 2010.  “We’re trying to get better,” Kent said in an interview
today, referring to the move. “We’re trying to be the best in
terms of how we serve the customer.”  Franchise Bottlers  Kent reiterated that there would be “a meaningful role for
partners” to take over pieces of the North American bottling
operation Coca-Cola now owns, without elaborating. Kent stuck to
his forecast that such a move may happen within another two to
three years. The outcome may look different than in the past, he
said, when franchise bottlers bought the right to do everything
from package to merchandise Coca-Cola’s products in a given
territory.  “This will not necessarily look like a full template of a
traditional refranchising,” Kent said.  Coca-Cola is trying keep U.S. sales growing amid criticism
that sweetened drinks contribute to the nation’s obesity
epidemic. The company last month started airing advertisements
to bring attention to the importance of exercise and calories in
curbing obesity. The first two-minute spot aired on cable
television on Jan. 14, highlighting Coca-Cola’s low- and zero-
calorie products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  