-- Cold Weather Probably Snapped Japan Out of Recession: Economy
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2013-02-13T04:17:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/cold-weather-probably-snapped-japan-out-of-gdp-decline-in-4q.html
Japan’s economy probably emerged
from its third recession in five years last quarter as cold
weather boosted consumption, bolstering Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe ’s campaign to revive growth.  Gross domestic product data  due tomorrow will probably show
an annualized 0.4 percent expansion in the three months through
December, according to the  median forecast in a survey  of 32
economists. Banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Citigroup
Inc. raised their forecasts from a contraction this month after
a gauge of consumption rose.  Abe’s challenge is to induce a sustained economic recovery
as he seeks to end deflation through more aggressive easing by
the Bank of Japan. With current BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa 
set to step down next month, the premier may increase pressure
for more monetary stimulus this year as a planned sales tax rise
in 2014 is predicted to drag on growth.  “Japan’s economy will likely see a solid recovery in the
coming months,” said  Yuichi Kodama , Tokyo-based chief economist
at Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Co., Japan’s third-largest life
insurer. “Still, consumption may cool after the sales tax rise,
and the new BOJ governor will probably have to show a stronger
tone on easing.”  Consumer spending probably rose 0.5 percent in the October-
December period from the previous three months, according to the
Bloomberg News survey. The Cabinet Office’s  Synthetic
Consumption Index , a gauge economists use to forecast private
spending, rose in the quarter.  Winter Clothing  Domestic same-store sales at Uniqlo, Japan’s largest
clothing retailer, rose 13.7 percent in November and 4.5 percent
in December as lower temperatures boosted demand. Tokyo
temperatures averaged below the 30-year median on 26 of 30 days
in November and 24 of 31 days in December, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors’ expectations for more monetary easing have
pushed the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  up by about 31 percent in
the past three months, while the yen has fallen about 15 percent
against the dollar in the same period. The currency appreciated
0.7 percent to 92.87 per dollar at 1:14 p.m. in Tokyo while the
Nikkei dropped 1.1 percent.  The yen strengthened for a second day after an unidentified
Group of Seven official said Japan will be discussed at the
Group of 20 meeting amid concern the currency’s moves had been
excessive. Finance ministers and central bankers from the G-20,
which includes the G-7 and emerging markets such as Brazil,
China and India, meet in Moscow on Feb. 15-16.  Higher Wages  Abe said in parliament last week that he would ask
businesses that are benefiting from monetary easing to pass on
profits in the form of higher wages for workers, and yesterday
in a meeting with business leaders said companies with improving
results should consider higher pay.  Mazda Motor Corp., whose shares have surged nearly 170
percent in the past three months, last week more than doubled
its net income forecast to 26 billion yen ($277 million) in the
year ending March. Japan Tobacco Inc., Asia’s largest listed
tobacco maker, raised its profit forecast as a weaker yen boosts
the value of overseas earnings.  The economy will grow 2 percent in the fiscal year from
April and 0.3 percent in the year after that, according to the
average forecast in a  survey  by the Japan Center for Economic
Research released yesterday.  Consumer Confidence  Elsewhere in the region, Australian consumer confidence in
February surged by the most since September 2011 as interest-
rate cuts gain traction. India will release trade data for
January, while Indonesia may say its current account deficit
widened last quarter, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Data to be published in Europe may show the region’s
industrial production rebounded in December, while the Bank of
England will publish the latest economic outlook in its
Inflation Report in London today.  In the first State of the Union address since winning re-
election, U.S. President  Barack Obama  called for raising the
federal minimum wage to $9 an hour and proposed spending $50
billion on “urgent” infrastructure projects. The Commerce
Department may say today retail sales rose for a third month in
January, while business inventories climbed at a slower pace in
December, surveys showed.  The Bank of Japan may increase the size of its asset-
purchase fund, through which it buys securities such as
government bonds and exchange-traded funds, by the end of this
year to support growth, Meiji’s Kodama said.  The BOJ last month said it would start open-ended asset
purchases only in January 2014, and the central bank’s board is
forecast to keep its policy unchanged at a Feb. 13-14 gathering,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  Haruhiko Kuroda  Additional easing could be justified for 2013,  Haruhiko Kuroda , the head of the Asian Development Bank and a potential
contender to replace Shirakawa, said in an interview on Feb. 11.
The central bank could usher in a growth spurt unseen in a
generation by stepping up stimulus and ending deflation, he said.  Japanese Economy Minister  Akira Amari  told reporters
yesterday that Kuroda is among those qualified to be BOJ
governor, adding that Abe has yet to decide on a nominee.
Shirakawa, criticized by politicians for not doing enough to end
deflation, said last week he’ll step down on Mar. 19, three
weeks before his five-year term was due to end.  Abe said in Parliament yesterday that reaching the central
bank’s 2 percent inflation target is possible using monetary
policy. He said last week that a change in the law governing the
BOJ is more likely if its policies are ineffective.  The sales tax is set to increase to 8 percent in April 2014
and 10 percent in October 2015 from the current 5 percent. While
the increase may boost consumer spending toward the end of
fiscal 2013, which starts in March, it may sap household demand
the following year. Deutsche Bank and Itochu Corp. are among
those forecasting an economic contraction in the fiscal year
starting in April 2014.  “Monetary policy will probably be the only thing left to
support the economy next year,” said  Masaaki Kanno , chief
economist at JPMorgan in Tokyo. “The moment of truth for the
recovery will probably come in fiscal 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  