-- Comcast Will Buy Rest of GE’s NBC Stake for $16.7 Billion
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-02-12T23:28:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/comcast-will-buy-rest-of-ge-s-nbc-stake-for-16-7-billion.html
Comcast Corp. , the largest U.S.
cable company, will buy out General Electric Co.’s ownership of
NBC Universal for $16.7 billion, following through on the cable
company’s purchase of a controlling stake two years ago.  The deal also involves buying the properties used by NBC
Universal at Manhattan’s 30 Rockefeller Center and CNBC’s
headquarters in New Jersey for $1.4 billion, Comcast said today
in a statement. The enterprise value of NBC Universal is now
$39.1 billion, up from $37.5 billion when Philadelphia-based
Comcast bought the stake in 2011.  Comcast, the biggest U.S. cable company, bought 51 percent
of NBC on Jan. 29 of that year for $13.8 billion in cash and
assets. Since then, the company has benefited from improving
ratings at the NBC broadcast network and better-than-expected ad
revenue from the Olympics. For GE, the deal turns an asset that
didn’t fit with its business into a source of cash.  “This is an attractive price for us and it gives GE a lot
of cash,” Comcast Chief Executive Officer  Brian Roberts  said in
an interview. “We like the NBC Universal business.”  Comcast shares jumped as much as 9.1 percent to $42.50 in
extended trading after the deal was announced. GE’s stock
climbed 4.3 percent to $23.54.  The sale will result in a pretax gain of about $1 billion
for GE, the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company said in a
separate statement. Those gains will be offset by increased
restructuring costs this year, GE said.  Stock Buyback  The company will use proceeds to increase repurchases of
its shares by $10 billion a year, GE said. Its board boosted its
buyback authorization to $35 billion, of which $23 billion
remains available.  “This transaction allows us to significantly increase the
cash we plan to return to shareholders in 2013, to approximately
$18 billion, and to continue to invest in our industrial
business,” GE CEO  Jeff Immelt  said. “By adding significant new
capital to our balanced capital allocation plan, we can
accelerate our share buyback plans while investing in growth in
our core businesses.”  GE used money raised from the initial sale to bolster its
energy division, with purchases including Dresser Inc. and the
well-support division of John Wood Group Plc. In total, the
company spent $11 billion on the acquisitions in a six-month
spree that ended in 2011.  Earnings Results  Comcast also released its fourth-quarter results today.  Net
income  rose 18 percent to $1.52 billion, or 56 cents a share,
from $1.29 billion, or 47 cents, a year earlier. Sales climbed
almost 6 percent to $15.9 billion.  Comcast lost 7,000 video subscribers in the period, part of
an industrywide trend of shrinking cable-TV viewers. Still, the
company would have posted a gain for the first time since 2007
if Hurricane Sandy hadn’t occurred, Roberts said.  Comcast added 341,000 high-speed Internet customers and
168,000 voice customers. Both figures topped analyst estimates.  Comcast also raised its dividend 20 percent to 78 cents a
share annually, and the cable operator announced it plans to
repurchase $2 billion of its stock in 2013.  Morgan Stanley and Davis Polk & Wardwell advised Comcast on
the GE deal. JPMorgan Chase & Co. provided financial advice to
GE, while Weil, Gotshal & Manges served as the company’s legal
adviser. Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Centerview Partners and CBRE
also provided strategic advice related to the transaction.  Comcast Chief Financial Officer  Michael Angelakis  had said
in September that the company was considering purchasing the
remainder of NBC. The network has relied on hit shows such as
“Sunday Night Football,” “The Voice” and “Revolution” to
boost ratings over the past year, following years of last-place
showings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  