-- Commonwealth Bank First-Half Profit Rises 1% on Retail Banking
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m
-- 2013-02-12T22:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/commonwealth-bank-first-half-profit-rises-1-on-retail-banking.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the
nation’s biggest lender, said first-half profit rose 1 percent
as retail banking and wealth management earnings increased.  Net income  climbed to A$3.66 billion ($3.77 billion) in the
six months ended Dec. 31 from A$3.62 billion a year earlier, the
Sydney-based bank said in an e-mailed statement today. That was
in line with the A$3.72 billion median profit estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Chief Executive Officer  Ian Narev  boosted earnings from
retail customers as the Reserve Bank of Australia cut benchmark
interest rates to match a half-century low. While the central
bank’s six rate cuts since November 2011 contributed to higher
property prices last quarter, lenders are still coping with the
weakest annual growth in outstanding home loans since 1977.  “Since reporting our full year results in August last year
we have seen some improvements in the global macroeconomic
environment,” Narev said in the statement today. “If the
current stability continues, we believe it will translate into a
slow but steady rebuilding of consumer and business confidence
in Australia.”  Shares  of Commonwealth Bank reached a record close
yesterday, ending at A$65.52, taking their 2013 gain to 5.4
percent. That compares with the benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 index ’s
6.7 percent advance.  Australia’s biggest banks have cut their reliance on credit
markets as local households save at close to the highest rate in
a quarter century. Debt markets furnish about 40 percent of the
funds they use for lending down from more than half three-years
ago, central bank data showed.  Higher Margin  Commonwealth Bank’s net interest margin, a measure of the
profitability of the bank’s lending business, rose 4 basis
points to 2.1 percent from six months earlier, the bank said
today. The margin declined 2 basis points from the same period a
year earlier.  Wholesale funding costs have fallen. Last month the bank
raised A$2.5 billion from five-year bonds, paying 95 basis
points more than swaps. That compared with  National Australia
Bank Ltd. ’s A$3 billion raising last year at almost double the
spread, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Retail banking services earnings climbed 13 percent from a
year earlier to A$1.5 billion, while wealth management profit
rose 10 percent to A$334 million, Commonwealh Bank said today.  Australian home-loan approvals fell in December for a third
month and first-home buyers slumped to the lowest in eight-and-
a-half years, the nation’s statistics bureau said in Sydney on
Feb. 11.  Melbourne-based rival NAB said last week that cash profit
climbed 3.6 percent in the three months ended Dec. 31 to A$1.45
billion.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  is scheduled
to report its first-quarter earnings on Feb. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  