-- Corn Posts Longest Slump Since 2010; Soybeans Enter Bear Market
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2013-02-12T21:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/corn-heads-for-worst-run-since-march-2010-as-output-may-climb.html
Corn fell for an eighth session in
Chicago, capping the longest losing streak since March 2010, as
prospects improved for crops in South America. Soybeans slumped
into a bear market.  Corn and soybean growing areas in Argentina may receive
moderate to heavy rainfall from storms beginning Feb. 16, easing
dry conditions, DTN said today in a forecast. Northern crop
regions in Brazil will be drier, helping the harvest progress,
according to the report. Argentina, the largest corn exporter
after the U.S., may produce 27 million metric tons, more than
expected by analysts, the U.S. Department of Agriculture said
Feb. 8. Brazil’s harvest may be 72.5 million tons, also more
than expected, the USDA said.  “The South American outlook is looking a bit brighter,”
 Kieran Walsh , a broker of agricultural derivatives at Aurel BGC,
said today from Paris. “Yield potential in both Argentina and
Brazil is looking healthier, reinforcing the USDA numbers.”  Corn futures for delivery in March dropped 0.9 percent to
close at $6.9625 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. Earlier, the grain touched $6.915, the lowest for a most-
active contract since Jan. 11.  Soybean futures for delivery in May fell 0.5 percent to
$14.095 a bushel in Chicago. The price has dropped 20 percent
from the record settlement of $17.6825 on Sept. 4, tumbling into
a bear market.  Warming Waters  Warming equatorial  waters  in the Pacific Ocean are
increasing precipitation in South America and the U.S., a major
change from dry conditions of the past three months, Martell
Crop Projections said in a report. Soybean crops in Brazil and
Argentina will jump 28 percent to a record 136.5 million tons
this year, the USDA forecast last week.  “Perceptions that global weather conditions are improving
are keeping buyers on the sidelines,”  Chad Henderson , the
president of Prime Agricultural Consultants Inc. in Brookfield,
Wisconsin, said in a telephone interview. “It’s not too late to
add bushels to the South American crops, and rain in the U.S.
will reduce drought conditions ahead of planting.”  U.S. corn output is projected to increase 34 percent to
14.4 billion bushels in the 2013-14 season, the USDA  said 
yesterday in a 10-year forecast. Soybean production may climb 11
percent to 3.34 billion bushels, it said. Both crops rallied to
records last year in Chicago trading, as drought in the U.S.
followed dry weather in South America in the previous season.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
 Whitney McFerron  in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  