-- Company Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Decline; Avon Risk Plunges
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-02-12T21:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-before-presidential-address.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk fell as investors awaited President  Barack Obama ’s State of
the Union address.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
2.1 basis points to a mid-price of 87.4 basis points at 4:30
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Obama is due to deliver his State of the Union address at 9
p.m. in Washington. He will make proposals for spending on
infrastructure, clean energy and education, according to an
administration official briefed on the speech. Obama will argue
that fostering economic growth is the best strategy to narrow a
federal budget gap that has exceeded $1 trillion in each of the
last four years.  “Investors will likely focus on the President’s plans to
stoke economic growth but any major initiatives will be received
with a mountain of salt as follow-through in Washington remains
illusive,”  Marc Pinto , head of corporate bond strategy at New
York-based Susquehanna International Group LLP, said in an e-
mail.  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Avon Swaps  The cost of protecting  Avon Products Inc .’s debt from
losses plunged after fourth-quarter profit topped estimates and
the company said it would evaluate alternatives for its Silpada
jewelery unit, which reported falling sales.  Five-year credit-default swaps on the New York-based
company’s debt fell 121 basis points to 352 basis points as of
3:38 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. The measure is the lowest in
about seven months.  Chief Executive Officer  Sheri McCoy , who took the helm of
the world’s largest door-to-door cosmetics seller in April, said
the company is cutting about 1,500 jobs and leaving the South
Korea and Vietnam markets as part of a plan to save $400 million
by the end of 2015.  ‘Weak’ Covenants  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index dropped 5.5 basis points to 439.3 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Covenant quality for high-yield debt deteriorated in
January, a report from Moody’s Investors Service showed today.
The decline resumes the erosion in quality for North American
high-yield bonds, which began in July, the ratings company said.  “Investors are assuming more risk despite less yield, as
average spreads to benchmark yields have tightened,”  Alexander Dill , lead covenant analyst, wrote.  The average relative yield on speculative-grade or junk-
rated debt fell 0.6 basis point to 502 basis points, according
to Bloomberg data.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and less than BBB- at Standard & Poor’s. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  