-- Anna Deavere Smith Wins $300,000 Gish, Recalls Being Poor
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2013-02-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/deveare-smith-wins-300-000-gish-prize-recalls-poverty.html
When Anna Deavere Smith came to New
York in the 1970s as a young playwright, her budget was so tight
she thought twice about taking the subway.  Things improved after her breakthrough one-woman show,
“Fires in the Mirror,” two decades ago.  For real financial security, nothing could match winning a
$500,000 John T. and Catherine D. Foundation “genius” grant in
1996. Yet tomorrow night comes close with the $300,000 Dorothy
and Lillian Gish Prize.  The award recognizes cutting-edge artists who also foster
social change. I recently spoke by phone with the 62-year-old
New York University professor who was in Los Angeles to attend
the NAACP Image Award. She had been nominated for an award as
best supporting actress in a comedy series for her role as
hospital administrator Gloria Akalitus in Showtime Network
Inc.’s “Nurse Jackie.”  Cole: Another call, another big prize.  Smith: I couldn’t believe it. It came out of the blue. I
was driving in Aspen, Colorado, picking up my laundry on a sunny
day and I took the call. I’ve known that I won the Gish Prize
since June, and I was told not to tell anybody, and I didn’t.  Cole: You could work for the Central Intelligence Agency.  Smith: I could. I’m very good at keeping secrets.  Cole: What will you do with this prize?  Spark Discourse  Smith: I haven’t really thought about that. I’m focused
more at the moment on the big value the prize has, which is to
spark discourse about the wonderful opportunity we have to pair
politics with art. I’ve been working on pairing politics and art
my whole career. At NYU, I’m working on curricula for this.  Cole: What were your early financial struggles like?  Smith: My plays take a very long time to make. The
economics of the regional theaters can’t possibly support my
work. I and any actor are likely to make $619 a week for a new
play that hasn’t been proven.  Cole: What was the lowest-paying job you’ve had?  Smith: I worked for free a lot. When I first came to New
York, I worked in these off-off-off Broadway places where I
barely made enough money to pay for the subway. But that’s where
innovation happens, in these teeny, tiny places. We need to keep
them alive.  Cole: Your work addresses political themes. Was being an
artist and political incongruous 20 years ago?  Divisions Collapse  Smith: Back in the day, people did see a division. They
also thought that if you did political work, you were didactic.
We see now that those divisions have collapsed.  Think of the pictures that have been nominated for Academy
Awards: “Zero Dark Thirty,” “Lincoln,” “Beasts of the
Southern Wild.” It means that we’re in a moment where audiences
want to be both moved and entertained, but they’re also looking
for meaning.  Cole: Would government leadership be different if artists
were in charge?  Smith: I don’t think artists should be in charge. Our job
is to not be in charge. Our job is to be foolish. I was getting
on a plane the other day and a girl was carrying a canvas bag
with  Steve Jobs ’s picture on it, and it said, “Stay hungry,
stay foolish.” That’s what artists should do. Stay hungry and
stay foolish.  Cole: What do you tell artists about staying true to their
artistic expression and the need to make money?  ‘Under-Fives’  Smith: I used to do “under-fives” -- those are dramas in
which you have five lines. One of the soap operas I would try to
get on when I could were those sponsored by Procter & Gamble. On
the back of every check I got it said, “It’s not creative
unless it sells.”  I was sort of offended by that at first. Then on the other
hand, it’s very difficult to make art for free. It’s very
difficult to survive as an artist if you do not have money,
resources or patronage.  ( Patrick Cole  is a reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include Philip Boroff on  theater , Max
Abelson on  music .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  