-- Dinosaurs, Bones Cavort in $185 Million Science Palace
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2013-02-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/dinosaurs-bones-cavort-in-185-million-science-palace.html
The base of the  Perot Museum of
Nature and Science ’s undulating roof has broken stone slabs and
concrete shafts. They might be ancient bones bleached by the
sun.  The main body of the $185 million Dallas museum rises in a
170-foot-high cube of blistered concrete. It features a big gash
that is crossed by a glass prism. (At night, visitors inside can
be seen gliding smoothly up an escalator.)  Thom Mayne of the Los Angeles firm  Morphosis Architects 
wants to inspire curiosity about science, the natural world and
technology. And he succeeds. The Perot’s architecture evokes
wonder, the way ancient ruins, animal skeletons or petroglyphs
do.  A lot of people wish wilfully spectacular architecture like
the Perot’s would die off. Mayne, who recently received the
American Institute of Architects’ Gold Medal, shows us what it
can do at its best.  He rearranges the senseless ordinariness of America’s
contemporary parking lot and billboard urbanism into theatrical,
episodic experiences.  Beyond a garden shaded by spiky native trees, a tentacle of
the building embraces us. Mayne has textured its concrete panels
into ribbony striations that evoke geological strata.  High Atrium  The entry at the base of the high glass fissure brings
visitors to a vestibule atrium that rises the building’s full
height, crisscrossed with ramps and stairs.  The best view of the “garden” of stone chunks and
concrete shards is from a terrace outside the lobby. Native
grasses, selected by the local landscape architecture firm
Talley Associates, poke out of crevices.  As I rose to the top floor on the glass-enclosed escalator,
a spectacular view of the downtown skyline opened, reminding me
of how humans and technology have made a world too often at odds
with the natural processes depicted within the museum.  The Perot’s collection merges those of the Dallas Museum of
Natural History, Science Place and the Dallas Children’s Museum.
The new 180,000-square-foot museum was named for Margot and  Ross Perot  (presidential candidate and founder of Electronic Data
Systems Corp.) to honor a $50 million gift by their children.  To cover such vast territories of knowledge, the Perot
asked three specialists to lay out the 11 exhibition halls on
five levels.  Dinosaur Draw  If you want to pack in crowds, bring on dinosaurs. Amaze
Design mounts fascinating fossils to draw the visitor into the
way life evolves, building a context for the spectacular beasts
that tower overhead.  Comparing prehistoric and modern animal skeletons shows how
animals adapt and how they interact with their environment. That
exhibit was a high point.  Some choices are scientifically questionable. In displays
on water and weather I could find no consideration of climate
change -- the defining natural-science challenge of our time.  The Tom Hunt Energy Hall, created by  Paul Bernhard Exhibit
Design  & Consulting, distorts the energy picture, giving short
shrift to both coal and alternative energy. It misstates the
role of geothermal energy today. (It uses ordinary earth
temperatures rather than the rare volcanic steam depicted.)  Oil Focus  The focus on oil is no surprise, yet the Perot botches this
display. A huge, menacing oil-drill model dominates an
incomprehensible exhibit featuring computer-interactive displays
blinking in the gloom.  People wandered off and became entranced by the spectacular
gems and minerals hall next door.  Too often, the lesson-plan calculation of the exhibit
design was careful instead of exhilarating. When the Perot
engages, it’s with far fewer touch-screen gizmos than many
science museums use. Perhaps more of us hunger for the reality
from which technology can isolates us.  Mayne’s architecture may mystify, but it provokes open-
ended curiosity. It’s got the visceral punch the exhibits
sometimes lack.  ( James S. Russell  writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Max Abelson and Mark Beech on
 music .  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .
 http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 