-- Dubai’s Arabtec Moves Staff to Abu Dhabi After Aabar Stake Grows
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-02-12T07:57:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/dubai-s-arabtec-moves-staff-to-abu-dhabi-after-aabar-stake-grows.html
Arabtec Holding Co., Dubai’s largest
construction company, has moved employees to neighboring Abu
Dhabi after a firm backed by the United Arab Emirates’ capital
increased its stake and took seats on the board last year.  “A number of staff,” have been transferred to Abu Dhabi
to accommodate the company’s increasing projects there,
spokesman Bassam N. Dean said by phone yesterday without
specifying the number of employees or the departments being
moved. The company’s headquarters remains in Dubai, he said.  Aabar Investments PJSC , backed by one of Abu Dhabi’s
sovereign wealth funds, last year raised its stake in Arabtec to
21.6 percent. The company has won large projects in Abu Dhabi in
the past year, including construction of a branch of the Louvre
museum and the Midfield terminal at Abu Dhabi airport. Aabar,
which dropped a $1.74 billion takeover offer for Arabtec almost
three years ago, was delisted from Abu Dhabi’s stock exchange in
2010.  Four Aabar executives were added to Arabtec’s board in May
and Aabar Chairman  Khadem Al Qubaisi  became chairman of the
construction company. Hasan Ismaik became Arabtec’s managing
director last year after he was named to the company’s board in
August, according to the company’s website.  Arabtec workers were moving boxes and computer hardware
from the company’s Dubai offices last week. This week, two
people at Arabtec’s Dubai office directed phone calls to the
company’s investor relations manager and other managers to
Arabtec’s office in Abu Dhabi.  Abu Dhabi Wealth  Abu Dhabi, the largest and richest of the seven sheikhdoms
that make up the United Arab Emirates, came to the rescue of its
smaller neighbor in 2009 as Dubai sought help to pay its debts.
Abu Dhabi and the central bank provided around $20 billion loan
after Dubai racked up about $113 billion in debt to transform
itself into a financial and tourism hub.  Aabar, which is controlled by Abu Dhabi’s International
Petroleum Investment Co., booked an impairment loss of $392
million in the first half of last year on its investment in
Glencore International Plc. The company has stakes in  Richard Branson ’s Virgin Galactic Ltd. commercial space venture Italy’s
UniCredit SpA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  