-- DuPont Wins Approval for Accord That Imprelis Kills Trees
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-02-12T22:56:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/dupont-wins-approval-for-accord-that-imprelis-kills-trees.html
DuPont Co. , the biggest U.S.
chemical maker by market value, won a federal judge’s approval
to settle class-action claims that its Imprelis herbicide
damaged trees at tens of thousands of homes and golf courses.  The preliminary approval of the settlement was granted
yesterday by U.S. District Judge  Gene E.K. Pratter  in
Philadelphia, according to a court filing today. DuPont, based
in Wilmington, Delaware, agreed to remove damaged trees and pay
for replacements, maintenance and warranties, according to the
judge’s order.  DuPont has set aside $750 million to compensate customers
for tree damage caused by the weed killer and has said the total
could reach $900 million. The accrual reflects claims paid
directly by DuPont and doesn’t include the class action, or
group lawsuit, Chief Financial Officer  Nicholas Fanandakis  said
in a Jan. 22 interview.  The group includes “at least tens of thousands” of
members, the judge wrote in his decision. Participants in the
settlement may still file claims for environmental or personal
injury damages.  Herbicide applicators would be compensated for time and
expenses spent investigating Imprelis damage. Plaintiffs’
lawyers will receive as much as $7 million in fees and costs
under the settlement.  “We are pleased with the court’s ruling and look forward
to continuing to resolve Imprelis claims,”  Michael Hanretta , a
DuPont spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  The case is In re Imprelis Herbicide Marketing, Sales
Practices and Products Liability Litigation, 2:11-md-02284, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  