-- Heathrow Airport Looks to Spend $4.7 Billion in 5 Years to 2019
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-02-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/heathrow-airport-looks-to-spend-4-7-billion-in-5-years-to-2019.html
Heathrow Airport Ltd.  plans to spend
3 billion pounds ($4.7 billion) in the five years to 2019 to
complete its new Terminal 2 facility, add taxiways and retool
the baggage system at Europe’s busiest airport.  The investment will bring the total amount spent on the hub
since 2003 to 14 billion pounds and drive a 41 percent increase
in the average charge per passenger over the next five years to
27.30 pounds in 2019, the London-based company said.  Almost four in five long-haul flights out of the U.K. start
at London Heathrow and continued investment is essential to
ensure the airport remains ahead of its European and Gulf
rivals, Chief Executive Officer  Colin Matthews  told reporters.
Growth rates at major airports like Heathrow, Paris’s Charles de
Gaulle and Frankfurt Airport slowed last year amid the European
debt crisis and as Persian Gulf rivals grabbed a growing share
of inter-continental transfer traffic.  “We need to make sure London retains its place because
Paris, Amsterdam and Frankfurt are very keen to do the job for
us; Amsterdam advertise themselves as the U.K.’s hub,” Matthews
said. “Ultimately it has to be competitive.”  The investment plans will cover the completion of Terminal
2, due to open in 2014, and the early stages of an extension,
Heathrow said. Other improvements over the next five years
include the roll-out of self-service bag drops, additional
automated check-in kiosks and a new baggage system to reduce the
number of lost bags.  Too Steep  Airlines including British Airways and Virgin Atlantic
Airways Ltd. say the proposed charges are too steep and called
on the U.K.’s Civil Aviation Authority to scrutinize the plan.
The CAA sets the maximum amount Heathrow is allowed to charge
airlines and must approve the plan before it goes into effect in
April 2014.  “Other businesses, in private and public sectors and
especially airlines, are making savings and delivering on less
money,” Virgin Chief Operating Officer  Steve Griffiths  said in
a statement. “Airports should not be exempt.”  Rapid-exit taxiways and new stands will improve punctuality
and help attract airlines flying the new Airbus A380, the
airport operator said. Heathrow introduced penalties in 2011 to
encourage airlines to use quieter planes like the superjumbo.  “We believe Heathrow Airport can make significant savings
to its inefficient cost base while still investing 3 billion
pounds in improving the overall customer experience,”  British
Airways said in an e-mailed statement.  The number of passengers flying through Heathrow is
expected to climb to 72.6 million by 2019, up from 69.9 million
people last year. The airport is operating close to the capacity
of its two runways at 480,000 flights annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  