-- ECB’s Draghi Rebukes Euro Chatter as Inappropriate and Fruitless
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-02-12T16:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/ecb-s-draghi-rebukes-euro-chatter-as-inappropriate-and-fruitless.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said politicians should refrain from calling for
intervention on the euro’s exchange rate.  Some comments made by people whose mandate “is not
immediately related to monetary policy” are “inappropriate or
fruitless,” Draghi said at a press conference in Madrid today
after addressing Spain’s parliament. “They are inappropriate if
they are meant to instruct the ECB.”  French President  Francois Hollande  has called for
coordinated government action to steer the euro’s exchange rate,
arguing that the currency’s 14-month peak against the dollar is
making it harder for Europe’s recession-hit economy to recover.
The ECB, the independent central bank for the 17 euro-area
states, doesn’t officially target the exchange rate.  Arguing that fears of a global currency war “are way, way
overdone,” Draghi said comments about targeting the euro’s
level only serve to “increase the confusion around the exchange
rate and frankly, we don’t need that.”  He cited the statement issued by the Group of Seven nations
earlier today, saying it made no mention of a currency war.  The Bank of Japan announced last month it would double its
inflation target to 2 percent in an attempt to end deflation,
raising the prospect of further monetary easing and driving the
yen down against its global counterparts. The euro reached a
three-year high against the yen.  ECB Concern  Europe’s single currency fell almost two cents on Feb. 7
when Draghi signaled he’s concerned the currency’s strength will
hurt the nascent economy recovery and slow inflation too far
below the bank’s 2 percent target.  “Both the nominal and real foreign exchange rates are
about or at their long-term averages,” Draghi said today. “We
want to ascertain if the appreciation is sustained and has the
potential to change our assessment of the risks to price
stability.”  Bundesbank President  Jens Weidmann  pushed the euro higher
yesterday by saying the currency isn’t overvalued.  On Feb. 5, Hollande said government leaders should set a
“medium-term objective” for the euro’s exchange rate in order
to spur the economy, and suggested the ECB should respond to
countries like the U.S. and China that appear to use the
exchange rate to promote their economies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  