-- ECB Ready to Offset Banks’ Accelerated LTRO Payback
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-02-12T11:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/ecb-ready-to-offset-banks-accelerated-ltro-payback.html
The European Central Bank is poised
to offset any acceleration in emergency loan repayments by the
region’s banks to ensure reduced liquidity doesn’t undermine its
monetary policy.  Two-year German yields climbed to a 10-month high as
traders increased bets in January on higher money-market rates
after lenders started repaying money disbursed by the central
bank’s Longer-Term Refinancing Operations.  Banks have pledged to return 145.6 billion euros ($195
billion) of the initial 489 billion euros of three-year funds,
leaving about 510 billion euros of  excess liquidity , according
to analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. ECB President  Mario Draghi 
said last week he expects at least 200 billion euros to remain
outstanding, suggesting a bigger return of funds would prompt
renewed efforts to ease monetary conditions.  “The ECB will be monitoring this, and if there is pressure
on front-end rates, the ECB would take action to alleviate
that,” said  Mark Dowding , a senior fixed-income manager at
BlueBay Asset Management in London, which oversees $47 billion.
“It may be a cut, it may be additional policy action on
collateral or other measures to ensure that there’s enough
liquidity in the system.”  Rising Yields  The yield on  two-year  German notes rose to 0.32 percent on
Jan. 28, the most since March and up from minus 0.013 percent at
the start of the year. It was 0.19 percent today, compared with
an average of 0.08 percent over the past 12 months.  The central bank flooded financial markets with two
tranches of three-year loans to avert a so-called credit crunch
after banks stopped lending in Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis.
The first opportunity for financial institutions to return money
from the second tranche of loans, which amounted to 529 billion
euros, is Feb. 27.  While the ECB doesn’t provide details of which institutions
are returning the loans early, some companies have announced how
much they’re handing back.  Banco Santander SA  said Jan. 31 that
it returned 24 billion euros of the loans and Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA gave back 8 billion euros.  The euro reached $1.3711 on Feb. 1, its highest level since
Nov. 14, 2011. It rose 0.4 percent to $1.3453 today.  Three-month  Euribor , the rate at which banks say they can
borrow euros, is 0.226 percent, according to data from the
European Banking Federation. It climbed to 0.234 percent on Feb.
1, the most since September.  Futures Rates  The implied yield on the three-month Euribor futures
contract expiring in December 2013 has climbed to 0.43 percent
from 0.25 percent at the start of the year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The implied rate rose to 0.61 percent on
Jan. 28, the most since July 2.  “If the amount of the second tranche paid back is a
similar proportion to the first, that would be in line with what
the market’s expecting,” said  Elaine Lin , a strategist at
Morgan Stanley in London. “If it’s a bigger number, we could
see a move up in money-market rates. Draghi said in the press
conference, that he knows that there will be 200 billion euros
in the system. For now, the market has taken the view that the
ECB is ready to act if the liquidity falls below this.”  Any stress in money markets would probably result in banks
increasing borrowing at the ECB’s three-month refinancing
operations, something that hasn’t happened yet, said  Richard McGuire , a strategist at Rabobank International in London.  Tighter Conditions  “There was no evidence that stress was shifting from one
ECB window to another,” McGuire said. “What the ECB does now
depends on the market reaction. To the extent that the euro
strengthens and the front end of the German curve rises as the
ECB balance sheet shrinks, then that delivers a de-facto
monetary tightening, and may prompt the ECB to open the door to
a lower refinancing rate.”  An index compiled by Rabobank, based on European Commission
data, shows monetary conditions tightened in the three months
through the end of January at the fastest pace since the euro
began in 1999, McGuire said.  “We will closely monitor conditions in the money market
and their potential impact on the stance of monetary policy,
which will remain accommodative with the full-allotment mode of
liquidity provision,” Draghi told reporters at a press
conference on Feb. 7 after the central bank held its key
interest rate at 0.75 percent. “When we estimate repayment for
the second LTRO, we are left quite persuaded that the excess
liquidity will be well over 200 billion euros, confirming the
monetary policy stance as being accommodative.”  Implicit Promise  Banks paying back the loans is a positive because it
reflects an improvement in financial market confidence,
according to Draghi.  “There was perhaps something implicit in Draghi’s
statement,” said  Mark Wall , Deutsche Bank AG’s London-based
chief euro-area economist. “There may be a hint that, were
money market conditions to drift away from the ECB’s desired
monetary policy stance, they may be willing to take action and
reengage in policies that they engaged in earlier in the
crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Gilbert at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  