-- Ed Whitacre Tells the Truth; Samba Dancers: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-02-12T16:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/ed-whitacre-tells-the-truth-samba-dancers-d-c-scene.html
Writing a book is “damn hard,”
said Ed Whitacre, former chairman of  AT&T Inc.  and  General
Motors Co. , and overseer of major corporate mergers.  “American Turnaround: Reinventing AT&T and GM and the Way
We Do Business in the U.S.A.” was released earlier this month.
The retired businessman celebrated with his Washington friends
last night at the Roosevelt House.  The building is now the office space of a lobbying firm run
by  Ben Barnes , a co-host of the evening in absentia. Barnes’s
colleague Kent Caperton filled in.  For Whitacre, the most challenging part of writing was
“trying to tell the truth but not hurting anyone’s feelings.”  He vowed last night he’d never venture into writing again.  His advice for young people coming up in corporate America:
“Be persistent and treat other people how you want to be
treated. And don’t write any books.”  Guests had books signed and nibbled on shrimp appetizers.
Lobbyist  David Leiter , former chief of staff to then-Senator
 John Kerry , and his wife, Tamera Luzzatto, the managing director
of government relations for the Pew Charitable Trusts, were
there along with Congressman  John Dingell , the Michigan
Democrat, and his wife,  Deborah I. Dingell , a consultant.  A cadre of AT&T executives attended, including  James Cicconi , senior executive vice president, external affairs, and
another co-host of the evening, and  Bob Quinn , senior vice
president, federal regulatory, and chief privacy officer.  Former congressmen Max Sandlin and Jim Turner, who both
represented Whitacre’s home state of Texas, were also present.  Whitacre lives in San Antonio and enjoys coming to
Washington to see old friends, but not necessarily the city.  “Not much has changed here,” he said.  Hats On  For its Saturday night gala, the Studio Theatre asked
guests to dress in honor of its production of “The (Expletive)
With the Hat.”  Sporting a black fedora and a long title was Mark Elliot,
executive vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s
Global Intellectual Property Center. Michael Bahar, general
counsel on the House Intelligence Committee, donned a Navy ball
cap.  Jamie Bennett , the chief of staff at the National Endowment
for the Arts, wore an elaborate czarina headdress.  Mona Elliot ,
in regulation at the Federal Reserve, turned to classic
literature for inspiration.  “It’s sort of Great Gatsbyish,” she said, referring to
her feathery fascinator.  David Muse, the theatre’s artistic director, wore a classic
black bowler while thanking supporters for doubling the number
of students the theater can educate.  After dinner, guests were treated to card tricks by master
illusionist  Ricky Jay .  Samba Dancers  Elsewhere Saturday night, scantily clad samba dancers posed
for pictures with  Bruce Lipnick , the chairman and founder of
 Asset Alliance Corp.   The occasion was a Carnival celebration at the home of
Brazilian Ambassador  Mauro Vieira , on behalf of the  Washington
Ballet .  A Conga line went past Interamerica Group President Jerry
Pierce and Jimmy Lynn, co-founder and managing director of  Human
Equity . The 425 guests raised more than $100,000 for the
Washington Ballet Latino Scholarship Fund.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Philip Boroff on  theater , Max
Abelson on  music .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 