-- EDF Staff Perks Cost $867 Million a Year; Auditor Faults Bonuses
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-02-12T12:14:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/edf-staff-perks-cost-867-million-a-year-auditor-faults-bonuses.html
Electricite de France SA  staff perks
cost the state utility an “exorbitant” 645 million euros ($867
million) a year, and managers are allowed to retain bonuses even
as shares fall and debt increases, the government auditor said.  Salaries have also risen on average by at least 3 percent a
year since 2005, faster than inflation and salary increases at
private companies, the  Cour des Comptes  said today in a report.  The study comes two days before the nuclear generator says
it will unveil about 1 billion euros of cost cuts at its annual
results. EDF, which supplies three-quarters of French power, is
suffering delays and cost overruns in developing a new reactor
and needs to spend billions of euros on maintenance and to meet
tighter safety rules imposed after Japan’s Fukushima meltdown.  EDF should curb heating and housing benefits for workers at
the company, its distribution unit and the grid, while managers’
bonuses need to be linked to performance, the auditor said.  EDF will review its bonus policy, the company said in
response. While the perks need to be “modernized,” many are
enforced by law and beyond the company’s control, it said.  Heating costs for the utility are about 381 million euros a
year, including 222 million euros for EDF, 129 million euros for
distribution unit ERDF and 30 million euros for the RTE grid.  Staff pay about 16 times less than regular customers for
heating their main and vacation homes, under rules that date
from 1951. Employees also aren’t limited in their consumption.  Housing costs, for 13,000 residences, totaled 264 million
euros in 2011 with only a third of the homes used by workers on
call who need to be close to their workplace, according to the
report. The study also criticized benefits offered to families.  Employees at EDF and GDF Suez SA, the former gas monopoly,
have benefited from lower rates for power and gas since before
World War II. The two utilities tried to revise the tariffs in
2011 and backed down after unions called strikes in protest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  