-- Hedge Fund Investors Are Sure Losers in Herbalife Fight
-- B y   S t e v e n   N .   K a p l a n
-- 2013-02-12T23:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/hedge-fund-investors-are-sure-losers-in-herbalife-fight.html
As  Bill Ackman ,  Dan Loeb  and  Carl Icahn  do battle over Herbalife Ltd., it is impossible to predict
which hedge-fund manager has bet correctly and will “win.”  I do know exactly who the losers will be: hedge-fund
investors as a group.  Ackman has been betting that  Herbalife  is operating a
pyramid scheme and, therefore, is overvalued. Loeb has taken the
opposite position. Icahn, meanwhile, has been rumored to have
followed Loeb and gone long on the nutrition-products company.  What is certain is that as soon as Loeb placed a big long
bet against Ackman’s short bet on  Herbalife , investors in the
funds, as a group, became the losers because of the way hedge-
fund compensation works. If you are an investor in both the
Ackman and Loeb funds, the total return before fees on the
Herbalife trade will be 0 percent. Whatever Ackman makes, Loeb
loses; and, vice versa. If Ackman makes $1 billion, Loeb loses
$1 billion.  It gets worse. Let’s say both funds also charge a
management fee of 2 percent and a carried interest or profit
share of 20 percent, as is common practice. If both hedge funds
make offsetting $1 billion bets, investors will pay $40 million
in management fees over a year. And let’s say that one hedge
fund makes 20 percent, or $200 million, on the trade while the
other loses $200 million. The winning fund will be entitled to a
$40 million profit share (20 percent of $200 million).  Offsetting Positions  What is the net effect? Investors have given the hedge
funds $2 billion. In total, they have earned a return of 0,
before fees. Including fees, they have lost $80 million for a
return of minus 4 percent. As long as Ackman and Loeb have
offsetting positions, this outcome is guaranteed. While the
hedge-fund managers pocket a total of $80 million, the investors
in the hedge funds lose that same amount.  And the numbers get worse if volatility increases. If one
hedge fund makes 40 percent while the other loses 40 percent,
the total fees increase to $120 million for a combined return of
minus 6 percent.  As hedge-fund assets have increased in the last decade,
this kind of zero-sum trading has undoubtedly increased, too.
Hedge funds cannot help trading against each other. This may
well explain why their returns have been less than impressive in
the past few years.  Last month,  George Soros , the most successful hedge-fund
investor of his generation, came to essentially the same
conclusion. He argued that hedge funds, as a group, are unlikely
to beat the market because they make up such a large fraction of
the market. The Herbalife imbroglio provides a vivid
illustration of the economics behind Soros’s view.  ( Steven N. Kaplan  is a professor of entrepreneurship and
finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Steven N. Kaplan  at  fskaplan@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  