-- Legg Mason Said to Name Sullivan Chief Executive Officer
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 2013-02-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/legg-mason-said-to-name-sullivan-chief-executive-officer.html
Legg Mason Inc.  named interim chief
executive officer  Joseph A. Sullivan  as CEO, ending a five-month
search for a leader to reverse five years of client redemptions
and calm restive fund affiliates, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  The appointment of Sullivan, 55, who served as interim-CEO
since Oct. 1, may be announced as early as today, said the
person yesterday, asking not to be identified because the
information is private. Sullivan replaces Mark Fetting, who
stepped down amid pressure from activist investor and board
member Nelson Peltz to improve the company’s performance.  In picking Sullivan,  Legg Mason  turned down an opportunity
to reach outside its ranks, which may reduce the chances of
dramatic changes to the firm’s strategy. Raymond A. “Chip”
Mason, who in 1970 merged his company with a regional brokerage
to form Legg Mason, led the firm until 2008. He was succeeded by
Fetting, who had previously headed the mutual fund and managed-
accounts businesses.  “I wouldn’t expect to see any sort of major structural
changes to the model, a meaningful shift in strategic direction
of the firm or any flow improvement in the near-term,”  Michael Kim , an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in New York,
said in a telephone interview before Sullivan was said to be
named CEO. “From a stock perspective, it could come as somewhat
of a disappointment.”  Declining Assets  Sullivan worked at Legg Mason Wood Walker for 12 years
before rejoining the firm in 2008 as chief administrative
officer and eventually head of global distribution. From 2005 to
2008, he worked at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. as head of fixed-income
capital markets, after it bought Legg Mason’s capital markets
business.  Legg Mason this month reported a  loss  of $453.9 million, or
$3.45 a share, for the three months ended Dec. 31, the biggest
quarterly shortfall since it posted a $1.5 billion loss at the
end of 2008. Earnings were hurt as redemptions and declining
assets forced the company to write down assets tied to the 2005
takeover of Citigroup Inc.’s asset-management business and to
the firm’s Permal hedge-fund unit.  The firm, whose assets swelled to a peak of $1 trillion in
2007 as investors flocked to funds managed by top-ranked
managers such as Bill Miller, slumped to $654 billion at the end
of January as performance declined and investors pulled money.
Since the fourth quarter of 2007, the firm has had withdrawals
in 20 of the last 21 quarters, most recently suffering
redemptions of $7.5 billion in the quarter ended Dec. 31.  Investment Affiliates  The  stock  has fallen about 80 percent since reaching a high
of $136.40 in February 2006.  Sullivan faces a push for greater independence by some of
Legg Mason’s eight investment affiliates. Sullivan has indicated
he’s more open to working with the units, which include bond
manager Western Asset Management Co. and equity managers such as
ClearBridge Investments and Royce & Associates. Legg Mason’s
affiliates operate independently and have separate revenue-
sharing agreements.  During the quarter ended Dec. 31, Legg Mason completed
restructuring  agreements  with Permal, which include a management
equity plan, a revised revenue-sharing agreement and new
multiyear employment contracts with key employees.  Western Asset, the company’s biggest investment unit, is
seeking more control of its fund sales by trying to negotiate a
move away from the centralized distribution model in which sales
of retail products go through Legg Mason, a person familiar with
the matter said in November.  In May, Western said it was removing the Legg Mason name
from its U.S. mutual funds as part of a rebranding to increase
sales to individual investors. ClearBridge, which is Legg
Mason’s largest stock-fund affiliate, said in October it was
dropping the Legg Mason name from its mutual funds as part of a
push to make its brand better known. In January, Legg Mason said
it was folding Miller’s Legg Mason Capital Management division
into ClearBridge as assets tumbled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  