-- Egypt Cut for Fifth Time by Moody’s on Political Unrest
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-02-12T19:03:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/egypt-cut-to-b3-at-moody-s-on-political-unrest-imf-uncertainty.html
Egypt’s bond rating was cut for the
fifth time in two years by Moody’s Investors Service, pushing
government debt six levels below investment grade on concern
over International Monetary Fund loans and political unrest.  The country’s credit rating was lowered by one level to B3,
New York-based Moody’s said today, putting it on par with
Ukraine, Argentina and Nicaragua. The rating will remain on
review for a further possible downgrade, Moody’s said. Benchmark
dollar-denominated bonds tumbled.  The cut is the fifth by Moody’s since the January 2011
uprising that ousted former President  Hosni Mubarak  from power.
Changes in government and concern over policy, including the
constitution, have stoked sporadic violence in the North African
nation and stalled talks over $4.8 billion in IMF assistance.
More than 50 people have been killed in recent clashes between
protesters and police.  Egypt’s rating was cut because of “the country’s ongoing
unsettled political conditions and recent escalation of civil
unrest in the form of violent clashes between protesters and
security forces, resulting in many deaths,” Moody’s analysts
including  Thomas J Byrne  wrote in a statement. “The political
challenges facing the government complicate both the reaching of
an agreement with the IMF, as well as the ability of the
government to adhere to a program of fiscal austerity.”  Bonds Decline  The government’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in April
2020 fell, pushing the yield up 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 6.81 percent by 1:30 p.m. in New York.
That’s the highest level on a closing basis since June. While
borrowing costs have surged 123 basis points since the start of
the most recent bout of violence Jan. 25, yields are still 198
basis points below a high of 8.79 percent reached last January.  The Egyptian pound has retreated 7.9 percent since the
central bank started auctioning dollars to local lenders in
December, limiting access to the U.S. currency. The biggest drop
in the currency’s value since its devaluation in 2003 has given
rise to a black market where the dollar is sold at a premium of
3 percent to 5 percent, Cairo-based investment bank EFG-Hermes
Holding SAE said in a report last week.  Moody’s is the third ratings company to reduce Egypt’s
credit ranking since December, when Standard & Poor’s cut the
nation to B-, also six levels below investment grade. Fitch
Ratings followed with a downgrade to B, the fifth-highest junk
level, last month. Moody’s also cited Egypt’s foreign reserves,
which declined the most in a year last month to $13.6 billion,
as one of the reasons for the downgrade.  ‘Further Downside’  “I think Moody’s has it right, no one is owning the
economic problem,”  Jean-Michel Saliba , a London-based economist
at BofA Merrill Lynch, said by phone today. “There’s probably
further downside to the bonds. Political violence in January has
put down all hopes of a resolution to the political crisis in
the near future.”  Egypt may be able to avoid another rating reduction should
it start rebuilding international reserves, cut government
borrowing costs, secure IMF assistance and restore economic
growth to a path closer to “pre-revolution trends,” Moody’s
said in the statement.  The economy has grown about 2 percent a year in the last
two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, the slowest
rate of expansion since the early 1990s.  The U.S. is urging all Egyptians to reject violence and
work toward a democratic future, Assistant Secretary of State
 Michael Posner  told reporters today in Cairo, referring to
pending U.S. economic assistance. “Egyptian people need the
economic support at this moment to help build a strong,
prosperous and democratic country,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  