-- Egypt at Risk of More Moody’s Cuts as IMF Support Delayed
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A h m e d   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2013-02-13T09:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/egypt-at-risk-of-more-moody-s-cuts-as-imf-support-delayed.html
A leading Salafi party said it would
meet with opponents of President  Mohamed Mursi  today to help
bridge political differences, in a push to end weeks of unrest
that helped prompt another cut in Egypt’s junk credit rating.  The Nour Party, which held the second largest total of
seats in the now-dissolved parliament, plans to meet secular
opposition groups to discuss its proposal for a national
coalition government, the state-run Al-Ahram newspaper said.
Mursi’s secular and activist critics have shunned his offer of
talks. The biggest secular bloc, the National Salvation Front,
has made demands ranging from a new Cabinet to the president’s
ouster.  The Salafi initiative is the latest effort to ease
political tensions that persist two years after the overthrow of
 Hosni Mubarak , frequently erupting into violence. It comes a day
after Moody’s Investors Service cut Egypt’s rating for a fifth
time in two years, citing political violence that is setting
back the prospect of economic recovery, and delays to a $4.8
billion International Monetary Fund loan.  The reduction took Egypt’s rating to B3, six levels below
investment grade and on par with Ukraine and Argentina.  Even if the IMF loan comes through quickly, the “current
deep political schisms and worsening social unrest make it even
harder for the government to pursue a meaningful reform
agenda,” including lowering subsidies and cutting the public
sector workforce,  Raza Agha , chief Middle East and Africa
economist for VTB Capital Plc, wrote in an e-mailed note.  Yields on Egypt’s benchmark dollar-denominated bonds surged
yesterday to the highest since June. They retreated 1 basis
point to 6.80 percent at 11 a.m. in Cairo today. The pound has
dropped 7.9 percent since the central bank started auctioning
dollars to local lenders in December, limiting access to the
U.S. currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tarek El-Tablawy  in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net 
Ahmed A. Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  