-- Leighton Returns to Annual Profit as Projects Completed
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-02-13T06:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/leighton-returns-to-annual-profit-as-projects-completed.html
Leighton Holdings Ltd. , Australia’s
largest construction company, returned to full-year profit as it
completed major projects and reduced debt.  Net income  was A$450 million ($464 million) in the 12
months ended December from a loss of A$286 million a year
earlier, the Sydney-based company said in a statement today.
Leighton shares surged the most in four years after the result.  Leighton completed a toll road in Brisbane and a
desalination plant in Victoria, which along with its Middle
Eastern venture Habtoor Leighton Group had caused more than
A$1.3 billion of losses and impairments. Chief Executive Officer
 Hamish Tyrwhitt  is focusing on expanding profit margins as he
cut gearing, a measure of debt levels, to 35 percent of
Leighton’s capital from 46 percent at the end of June.  “This result reflects the strength and diversity of our
underlying business,” the company said. Leighton’s
“underlying” earnings for 2013 will be between A$520 million
and A$600 million, it said today.  The 2012 result compares with the A$469 million median
profit  estimate  of nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Leighton  shares  rose 11 percent to A$23.14 at the close of
trade in Sydney, the biggest gain since December 2008, with
volume more than three times the three-month average. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index rose 0.9 percent.  Falling Prices  A fall in commodity prices has hit demand for contract
mining that made up about 23 percent of revenue last year and
slowed mining and petroleum construction projects which
comprised another 16 percent. Price declines in thermal and
coking coal led to a slowing of work operating mines in
Australia and Indonesia in the second half of the year, Leighton
said.  “The expected peak in mining-related infrastructure
investment may result in a pause in economic activity” over the
coming year, the company said. “Fundamentals are favorable,
however, for this growth gap to be filled by activity in other
parts of the economy.”  The company has aligned more closely with major shareholder
 Hochtief AG  and Spain’s  Actividades de Construccion y Servicios
SA  over the past year. It moved its financial year end to
December and added the Spanish company’s construction head
 Marcelino Fernandez Verdes  to its board.  Hochtief has  49 percent  of Leighton’s shares and is in turn
controlled by ACS via a  54 percent stake , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  