-- Telecom Italia Debt Rating Lowered by Moody’s on Earnings
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-02-12T09:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/telecom-italia-debt-rating-cut-to-one-step-above-junk-by-moody-s.html
Telecom Italia SpA  had its credit
rating cut to the lowest investment grade by Moody’s Investors
Service as Italy’s biggest phone company faces declining
domestic profitability and failed to reach its debt-reduction
target.  Telecom Italia’s senior unsecured and issuer ratings were
lowered one level from Baa2, Moody’s said in a statement
yesterday. The rating may be cut again, echoing the tough
operating environment in Italy, Moody’s said.  “The downgrade reflects the increased risks to its
business from the challenging operating environment in its key
domestic market,”  Carlos Winzer , Moody’s senior vice president
and lead analyst for Telecom Italia, said in the statement.
“Although management is taking actions, such as the cut in
dividends and plan to issue hybrid bonds, this is not sufficient
to fully offset the company’s increased business risk.”  Telecom Italia last week forecast declining 2013 earnings
after reporting profit that trailed analysts’ estimates.
Adjusted net debt will fall to less than 27 billion euros in
2013 ($36 billion) from 28.3 billion euros at the end of 2012
and 29.5 billion euros at the end of September, the company
said. Milan-based Telecom Italia had predicted debt would fall
to about 27.5 billion euros at the end of 2012.  The cost of insuring Telecom Italia bonds using credit-
default swaps jumped by more than 31 basis points, or 9.7
percent, to 358 basis points following the cut, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if
a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  