-- Emanuel Reaches Deal With Police Union to Fix Pensions
-- B y   O l i v e r   R e n i c k
-- 2013-02-12T23:06:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/emanuel-reaches-deal-with-police-union-to-fix-pensions.html
Chicago police sergeants would get a
9 percent pay raise over four years while future retirees would
be required to use 2 percent of their pensions to help cover
health-care benefits, in a deal announced by Mayor  Rahm Emanuel .  “This is the first agreement that has a sensible contract,
realistic pension reform and changes how we fund retiree health
care going forward,” Emanuel said today at a news briefing
about the accord. He was joined by union leaders.  The Emanuel administration has warned that ballooning
pension costs may force the city to make deep cuts in government
services. Retirement plans will consume 22 percent of the budget
-- about $1.2 billion -- within four years, unless the state
Legislature restructures them, including adjusting benefits and
contribution rates, the mayor has said.  “We have a framework that addresses the financial pressure
on taxpayers,” Emanuel said about the agreement announced
today, which still must be ratified by rank-and-file members. He
said it “is a critical first step and baseline framework for
fixing the city’s pension crisis.”  The accord came several days after the city’s larger
Fraternal Order of Police union pushed for a 12 percent increase
over two years and $3,000 annual “cost of living in Chicago”
stipends. Emanuel alluded to the negotiations with the FOP when
asked if the sergeants’ deal would affect other city contracts.  City ‘Blueprint’  It’s “a framework and blueprint for all to take note,”
Emanuel said. The Chicago Police Sergeants’ Association has more
than 1,100 members, according to Kathleen Strand, a spokeswoman
for the mayor.  Under the agreement, sergeants would pay 1 percentage point
more of their salaries into the pension fund annually for three
years, pushing their contribution rate to 12 percent from 9
percent now, according to a statement from City Hall. The rate
will decline to 10 percent once the retirement system has 80
percent of the assets needed to cover projected obligations.  The police pension had about 40 percent of the amount
needed as of 2010, according to a June 2012 report from the
Civic Federation, a Chicago-based nonprofit research group that
tracks government finances.  Current retirees’ cost-of-living adjustment would be
reduced to 2.5 percent from 3 percent and will be provided only
in odd years until 2019, when it would become annual again,
under the proposed agreement. Future retirees also would see
their inflation adjustments reduced temporarily.  The agreement also would raise the minimum retirement age
to 53 from 50. Sergeants retiring before age 64 would receive a
benefit of as much as 75 percent of their final salary under the
deal; those who retire at 64 would get 80 percent, according to
the city.  “I think it’s a very good deal,” said Jim Ade, the
union’s president. Still, he said it will be a “tough sell” to
get his members to accept the contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oliver Renick in Chicago at 
 orenick1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  