-- TXU Bondholders Burn as $500 Million Lost in a Single Day
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 2013-02-12T19:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/energy-future-rout-erases-500-million-in-day-corporate-finance.html
Energy Future Holdings Corp.  bonds
lost almost a half-billion dollars of value in a single day last
week as the electricity provider and owner KKR & Co. hire
restructuring advisers and the firm’s ability to defer interest
nears an end.  Bonds of Texas Competitive Electric Holdings Co., Energy
Future’s unregulated unit, plunged as much as 9.25 cents to a
record low of 15 cents on the dollar Feb. 8 while a secured loan
fell to a two-month low. Energy Future hired law firm Kirkland &
Ellis LLP, and KKR, which helped take the power producer private
in the largest leveraged buyout, retained Blackstone Group LP to
help restructure the $47.2 billion of total debt.  Chances for a bankruptcy or reorganization are growing for
the former TXU Corp., following seven consecutive quarterly
 losses , as contracts protecting it from slumping natural gas
prices decrease to 39 percent of what it has at risk next year
from 99 percent in 2012. Energy Future may seek a reorganization
as soon as May 1, when interest on payment-in-kind bonds that
cost as much as $173 million annually, will need to be made in
cash, according to  Peter Thornton , an analyst at Montpelier,
Vermont-based KDP Investment Advisors Inc.  “We are getting very close to a restructuring and a
trigger point could be in May when PIK turns to cash interest
payments,” Thornton said in a telephone interview. “The
trading levels for these bonds reflect expectations for pennies
on the dollar recovery.”  ‘Overall Insolvency’  As the company’s natural gas forward-sales contracts
expire, it won’t have enough cash to meet a $3.8 billion term
loan due in October 2014, which would force a bankruptcy filing,
Thornton said in a telephone interview. “That’s the absolute
wall,” he said. “They are running out of options given the
overall insolvency of the capital structure.”  Power prices depend on gas costs in most markets because
plants powered by the fuel usually provide the marginal power
needed to meet demand. Coal is easy to store, and plants powered
by it are usually slow to be turned on and off.  Allan Koenig , a spokesman for Energy Future Holdings in
Dallas, declined to comment on the company’s financial
situation.  Bonds Fall  Texas Competitive’s $1.83 billion of 10.25 percent debt due
November 2015 traded as high as 32 cents on the dollar in July
and ended yesterday at 18.5 cents, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. Its $1.23 billion of 15 percent second-lien notes due
April 2021 dropped 9 cents to 26 on Feb. 8 and fell to 25.25
cents yesterday.  Texas Competitive’s term loan maturing in October 2014 fell
to 69.2 cents on the dollar yesterday from as high as 76.8 cents
on Jan. 3, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That loan
is now within the 50 cent-to-70 cent range that Standard &
Poor’s expects lenders to recover in the event of a default.  Energy Future, the biggest power producer in Texas, said in
a Jan. 22 regulatory filing that its preliminary 2012 net loss
widened to $2.17 billion from $1.91 billion the previous year as
revenue fell amid a slump in power prices. Energy Future is
scheduled to report fourth-quarter  results  on Feb. 15.  $43.2 Billion  The company has struggled to be profitable ever since KKR,
TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners took it private
for $43.2 billion in 2007. The company’s long-term borrowing
soared to  $37.4 billion  as of Sept. 30 from $10.6 billion before
the buyout. Meanwhile, natural gas prices have fallen about 76
percent from their 2008 peak to $3.279 per million British
thermal units amid a glut of production from U.S. shale
deposits.  Energy Future owns Luminant, a generation company that
produces electricity, and TXU Energy, a retail unit that markets
and sells power. Energy Future also holds an 80 percent stake in
Oncor Electric Delivery Co., a profitable regulated transmission
and distribution utility that delivers power to more than 3
million homes and businesses in Texas.  Energy Future has sought to protect Oncor from a potential
restructuring of other parts of the company by paying off
intercompany loans while changing the terms of outstanding bonds
to isolate the distribution unit.  Creditors agreed to exchange $1.37 billion of Energy
Future’s bonds and to amend rules governing its securities to
shift liabilities, the company said in a Jan. 9 regulatory
filing.  ‘Restructuring Activity’  Still, Moody’s Investors Service expects a restructuring
within 12 months.  “Any potential restructuring activity will be organized
and amendable because of the political and reputational risk
that resides with Energy Future’s equity sponsors and board of
directors associated with a contentious and disorganized
restructuring,”  James Hempstead , a credit analyst at Moody’s,
said in a Feb. 4 note.  Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  said in his annual
letter to shareholders a year ago that his $2 billion investment
in Energy Future in 2007 was at risk of being wiped out. He
wrote down holdings related to the company and called the
investment “a big mistake.”  To aid in a reorganization, Energy Future hired Evercore
Partners Inc. as an adviser, along with Kirkland & Ellis, while
KKR retained Blackstone, according to people familiar with the
situation, who asked not to be identified, citing lack of
authorization to speak publicly. Energy Future’s Oncor unit also
enlisted New York-based restructuring firm Miller Buckfire &
Co., a unit of Stifel Financial Corp., according to three people
familiar with the situation.  Expiring Hedges  Energy Future has “less than adequate” liquidity given
Texas Competitive’s $3.8 billion term loan that comes due next
year,  Terry Pratt , a credit analyst for S&P, said in a Feb. 1
note. The unit had total liquidity of $1.4 billion as of Dec.
21, 2012, with $1.3 billion of cash and $114 million available
under a secured letter of credit facility, according a Dec. 21
regulatory filing.  Natural gas contracts which support cash flow “will begin
to roll off later in 2013, creating greater exposure to weak
power-market conditions in late 2013 and more so in 2014,”
Pratt wrote.  Hedges that are supporting cash flow by locking in natural
gas prices expire by 2015, according to an Oct. 30 regulatory
filing. The hedges locked in natural gas at a weighted average
price of $7.35 per million British thermal units for 2012,
compared with an average market price of about $3.32, according
to the filing.  Texas Competitive had 99 percent of its estimated natural
gas price exposure hedged for 2012, according to the filing.
That hedge decreases to 87 percent in 2013 and 39 percent in
2014.  “Even if gas prices spike to $5 again it still doesn’t
support the current debt load,” said  Andy DeVries , an analyst
at debt researcher CreditSights Inc. in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Chediak  in San Francisco at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
 Richard Bravo  in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  