-- English Says N.Z. Won’t Enter Currency War Zone With Peashooter
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-02-12T23:22:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/english-says-n-z-won-t-enter-currency-war-zone-with-peashooter.html
New Zealand’s government isn’t
prepared to sell the nation’s currency to relieve pressure on
exporters and manufacturers, Finance Minister  Bill English  said.  “We’re not willing to take the kind of huge risks involved
in large scale speculation in the exchange rate with taxpayer
dollars,” English told reporters in Wellington today. “To
influence the exchange rate you need a couple of hundred billion
U.S. in the bank so they take you seriously. We’d be out in the
war zone with a peashooter.”  Central bank Governor  Graeme Wheeler  last month said the
currency was overvalued and was undermining profitability for
exporters and those who compete with cheaper imports. New
Zealand’s economy grew 2 percent in the year through September
as manufacturing fell, while employment shrank for a third
straight quarter in the three months through December.  The currency has gained 1.5 percent this year after rising
6.6 percent in 2012. It bought 84.10 U.S. cents at 11:45 a.m. in
Wellington.  At current levels the exchange rate “does represent a
fundamental strength of New Zealand’s economy relative to the
U.S.,” English said. “We have been a stronger economy than the
U.S. and that has been a good thing.”  The government’s political opponents have called for
adjustments to central bank policy and adoption of so-called
quantitative easing to relieve pressure on the currency, citing
developments in major global economies.  “We accept the exchange rate at current levels is putting
pressure on exporters,” English said. “The exchange rate is
largely driven by external factors we can’t influence such as
the choices they are making in Europe, the U.S. and U.K. We’re
not in those desperate circumstances.”  The government says its efforts to make the economy more
competitive will mean companies are better able to make profits
when the currency is high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  