-- European Carbon Rises to Three-Week High Before Vote on Glut Fix
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-02-12T17:43:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/eu-carbon-price-increases-to-six-day-high-ahead-of-glut-fix-vote.html
European Union carbon permits rose
to their highest in almost three weeks as the environment
committee of the bloc’s parliament prepared to vote on a measure
to temporarily cut supply of the certificates.  EU allowances for December climbed 2.2 percent to 4.58
euros ($6.16) a metric ton, the highest close since Jan. 23,
after earlier advancing to 4.72 euros on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London. United Nations Certified Emission Reduction
credits for December fell 2 cents, or 5.7 percent, to 33 euro
cents a ton.  The European Parliament committee is set to vote Feb. 19 on
a proposal designed to allow the bloc to postpone the sale of
900 million tons of allowances until the end of the decade in a
process known as backloading. The price of the permits plunged
31 percent this year and reached a record 2.81 euros a ton last
month as Europe’s sputtering economy curbed demand for the
contracts.  Carbon advanced as traders anticipated support for the
supply reduction at next week’s vote,  Matthew Gray , an analyst
in London at Jefferies Group Inc., said today in an e-mailed
research note.  The entire parliament will vote on the measure later this
year. The proposal must also clear the Climate Change Committee
of national-government representatives, which is probably the
most difficult test of support, Gray said.  Additional sales of 100 million tons of EU carbon from a
so-called new-entrant reserve that was set aside to raise funds
for clean-energy projects may erode any upside from mending the
glut, he said.  Today’s price rise “will likely prove vacuous,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  