-- Ryanair to Fight EU as Aer Lingus Takeover Bid Set to Fail
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-12T14:53:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/eu-preparing-to-block-ryanair-s-bid-for-aer-lingus-again.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc  plans to appeal
a move by European regulators to block its 694 million-euro
($932 million) bid for  Aer Lingus Group Plc , in a last-ditch
attempt to salvage a deal that has already failed twice before.  Ryanair has met “every competition concern raised in the
EU’s Statement of Objections and during the review process,”
the Dublin-based carrier said today, after it was informed that
the European Union Commission plans to block the bid.  Europe’s largest discount carrier owns about 30 percent of
Aer Lingus and renewed an attempt in June to buy the rest after
two prior takeover efforts failed. Ryanair offered routes and
cash to rivals such as  Flybe Group Plc  and  British Airways  to
gain regulatory approval. The move by the competition watchdog
comes only weeks after the commission banned  United Parcel
Service Inc. ’s proposed takeover of  TNT Express NV .  “This is clearly disappointing for Ryanair, having put
together an exhaustive and comprehensive list of concessions,”
said  David Holohan , an analyst at Dublin-based  Merrion Capital .
“Given that this is the third takeover attempt to fail, we do
not envisage a fourth move by Ryanair.”  Aer Lingus fell as much as 9 cents, or 7.3 percent, to 1.24
euros, while Flybe slumped as much as 7.75 pence, or 14 percent,
to 49.25 pence. Ryanair fell as much as 0.6 percent.  ‘Disappointed’  Flybe said it was “disappointed” and would “await the
outcome of the appeal process,” according to a statement today.
Aer Lingus reiterated  the offer should not have been made and
said it will continue to assist an investigation by the U.K.’s
Competition Commission into the “anti-competitive effects” of
Ryanair’s minority shareholding.  EU regulators already blocked Ryanair’s bid for Aer Lingus
in 2007, saying a takeover would allow the discount airline to
dominate 35 routes and control 80 percent of the market in
Dublin. Ryanair lost a 2010 appeal of the merger ban.  Ryanair had offered to pay Flybe 100 million euros to take
over almost half of Aer Lingus’s short-haul business in an
effort to persuade regulators that the U.K. airline could
replace the Irish carrier as a rival.  Flybe Falls  The carrier’s latest push for control at Aer Lingus has
also drawn opposition from Ireland’s government. Transport
Minister  Leo Varadkar , who controls a 25 percent government
stake in Aer Lingus, said today that Ryanair’s concessions
wouldn’t guarantee competition and connectivity on flights from
the island nation. The government continues its opposition to
the bid, he said in an interview with RTE Radio in Dublin.  “The Irish government is an expected seller of its stake
in Aer Lingus,” RBC Capital Markets analyst Damien Brewer said
in a note to investors today. “We think a sale at the same time
as the Irish government might help maximize Ryanair’s exit value
for its stake if its appeal fails.”  Antoine Colombani , spokesman for EU Competition
Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia , said the commission will take a
decision in this case at the end of February or the beginning of
March.  Ryanair Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in
September that the company would consider selling its Aer Lingus
stake if regulators turned down a “revolutionary” package of
concessions.  The Brussels-based antitrust agency has a March 6 deadline
to rule on the deal. It said in August that the takeover could
eliminate competition on a large number of routes because the
two airlines are each other’s closest rivals and few new
competitors are likely.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net  