-- Eu Yan Sang Expands From Bird’s Nest to Vitamins: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-12T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/eu-yan-sang-expands-from-bird-s-nest-to-vitamins-southeast-asia.html
Eu Yan Sang International Ltd. , the
largest seller of traditional Chinese medicine in Asia outside
of China, plans to add its signature herbs to Western health
supplements such as vitamins to broaden its customer base.  The century-old Singapore-based company, which bought the
assets of Australia’s Healthzone Ltd. a year ago, will produce
the supplements under that unit’s brands and infuse them with
Chinese herbs used to fight colds and fevers, Chief Executive
Officer  Richard Eu  said. The products will be introduced in the
next two months and sold with herbs and other Chinese health
products such as bird’s nest, he said.  “We want to take an inclusive approach and see what works
in each market,” Eu said in an interview in Singapore on Feb.
8. “Australia is in a way an experiment to see how we can
expand to a more Western kind of environment. We’ll see what
products we can put in through the network to add value.”  The company is among an increasing number of businesses in
Asia that are taking local products to Western markets. Trung
Nguyen Group Corp., Vietnam’s biggest coffee retailer, wants to
open shops in Seattle, New York and Boston this year.
Singapore’s Osim International Ltd., Asia’s biggest maker of
massage chairs, sells its products through its Brookstone stores
in the U.S.  Eu Yan Sang  opened its first shop in Malaysia in 1879 and
has expanded to 300 retail outlets in markets including Hong
Kong, China, Macau and Australia selling products such as
Lingzhi capsules to combat cancer and boost longevity. It also
has 28 clinics or medical halls offering treatments for
fertility, stroke, arthritis and other ailments, according to
its  website .  Commoditized Products  The company decided to branch out into the Western products
because of its expansion into the traditional clinics, where Eu
said his medicine practitioners are able to add value to the
products it sells with their knowledge and expertise.  “In the western markets, health supplements are
increasingly becoming commoditized,” Eu said, pointing to the
rising sale of vitamins and other supplements in supermarkets.
“If we can do what we did with our medical halls here, and do
it to a health food store in a Western environment, I think we
actually can have a global businesses.”  The company acquired the Australian assets that included
100  Healthy Life  stores after that company fell into
receivership, Eu said. The business now accounts for about 10
percent of its sales, he said, which also reflects the
proportion of its Western products now, a segment that’s set to
grow.  Retail Experience  “Progress appears to have been made in Australia,” said
 Melissa Yeap , a Singapore-based analyst at DMG & Partners
Securities Pte. The “main factor in their favor includes their
extensive retail experience.”  Yeap also said that health-supplements retailer  GNC
Holdings Inc.  has also added Chinese herbs to its nutritional
offerings and “sales seem to be brisk.”  Eu Yan Sang’s biggest challenge isn’t competition, Eu said.
It’s the rising costs of shop leases in markets such as Hong
Kong, where it had to relocate its best-selling store in the
Causeway Bay shopping district after its landlord raised rents
to a level that exceeded its sales. The company now operates in
the periphery of the shopping belt and sells its products
through retailers such as  Dairy Farm International Holdings
Ltd. ’s Mannings health and personal products stores.  Eu Yan Sang  last week reported a fiscal second-quarter net
income of S$4.7 million, rebounding from a S$2.7 million loss
after a writedown for its Australian acquisition. Gross
operating margin was little changed at 52 percent as a 12
percent climb in sales was offset by “rising rental
pressures,” it said.  Share Performance  The stock has risen 5.8 percent since the start of the
year,  more than  twice the increase in the Singapore benchmark
 Straits Times Index . The gain was a rebound from an 11 percent
slump in 2012, when the benchmark measure climbed 21 percent.  The company also plans to expand its reach among non-
Chinese speaking customers in the region, and will open its
first store in Vietnam this year, a market Eu said is similar to
China because of the local familiarity with traditional
medicine. It’s also considering adding stores to Southeast Asian
markets including Indonesia and Thailand later, he said.  Eu Yan Sang’s flagship products includes the bottle bird’s
nests made from the salivary secretion of swiftlets consumed to
enhance youthfulness, and the Bak Foong pill made from ginseng,
deer’s antler and herbs to ease menstrual cramps, according to
Eu and details from the company’s website.  “There is a lot of promise in these markets,” said DMG’s
Yeap. “Traditional Chinese medicine has gained popularity among
the non-Chinese speaking people and the younger generation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  