-- Europe Should Scrap Solvency II’s Internal Models, Hiscox Says
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2013-02-12T13:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/europe-should-scrap-solvency-ii-s-internal-models-hiscox-says.html
European regulators should scrap
insurers’ internal models used to set capital requirements under
Solvency II, according to  Hiscox Ltd.  Chief Executive Officer
 Bronek Masojada .  The European Union’s Solvency II regulations are too
costly, complicated and risk being ineffective in a crisis after
10 years in development, Masojada said today at the Economist’s
Insurance Summit conference in London.  Prudential Plc  CEO
 Tidjane Thiam  said a one-size fits all approach to regulation
for the EU’s 27 member states won’t work.  “Imagine if we all drove cars with individually set speed
limits based on the suspension and the wheels and the design of
the car,” Masojada said. “Models can never be made that
good.”  Policy makers including  Andrew Haldane , executive director
for financial stability at the Bank of England, have criticized
Solvency II’s use of internal models because a flawed system of
banks self-reporting capital reserves under Basel II was one
reason behind regulators’ failure to spot the financial crisis
of 2008. There’s a danger insurers will do the same under
Solvency II, Haldane told U.K. lawmakers in November.  Insurers may be willing to scrap their internal models when
they realize how much they’re going to cost over the next few
years, Masojada said.  In approving the use of internal models, regulators were
giving insurers what they wanted, said  Julian Adams , director of
insurance at the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority.  Firms have now learned a “costly lesson over the last 10
years,” said  Simon Lee , CEO of London-based  RSA Insurance Group
Plc . The rules will cost RSA about 20 million pounds ($31
million) to implement in 2013, he said.  Implementation Delayed  Solvency II will cost insurers 2 billion euros ($2.7
billion) to 3 billion euros initially and 500 million euros a
year once the rules are in place, according to Insurance Europe,
a Brussels-based industry lobby group.  Regulators have pushed back the implementation date of
Solvency II to 2016 or 2017 from 2014 because of objections from
insurers over how much capital the rules require to back long-
term guaranteed products such as annuities. The EU needs to
build in more flexibility if the system is to work, Thiam said.  “I can see how attractive having one consistent framework
for 27 countries may be,” he said. “I may even be willing to
consider that it may be achievable, but it’s clear that so far
it has proven extremely costly and formidably difficult. One
size fits all does not work and is not likely to work
particularly in our industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  