-- Ex-SK Foods CEO Salyer Sentenced to Six Years in Prison
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-02-12T21:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/ex-sk-foods-ceo-salyer-sentenced-to-six-years-in-prison.html
Ex-SK Foods LP Chief Executive
Officer  Frederick Scott Salyer  was sentenced to six years in
prison after pleading guilty to bribing customers and selling
goods containing illegally high levels of mold.  A federal grand jury in 2011 returned a seven-count
indictment against Salyer, alleging that from 1990 to 2008 he
orchestrated schemes to pay bribes to purchasing managers for
customers including  Kraft Foods Inc.  and Frito-Lay Inc. to
ensure they bought products from SK Foods, a tomato processor.
Salyer pleaded guilty March 23 to racketeering charges in
federal court in Sacramento, California.  At Salyer’s direction, SK Foods employees falsified
documents concerning percentages of natural tomato solids, mold
counts and production dates for the Lemoore, California-based
company’s products, according to the plea agreement.  “Scott Salyer used bribery and fraud to deceive his
customers about SK Foods’ products in order to maximize his
profits,” U.S. Attorney  Benjamin B. Wagner  in Sacramento said
today in a e-mailed statement.  SK Foods customers paid inflated prices for tomato products
and millions of pounds of substandard merchandise was shipped
because of the company’s conduct, which didn’t create a health
hazard for consumers, according to prosecutors. Nine individuals
employed by SK Foods or its customers previously pleaded guilty
as part of a government probe, prosecutors said.  Brian Ferrall , Salyer’s lawyer, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Salyer, 10-00061, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  