-- Exporting U.S. Natural Gas Show Senate Leaders’ Split
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2013-02-12T16:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/exporting-u-s-natural-gas-show-senate-leaders-split.html
The top two members of a Senate
committee for energy split over expanding U.S. natural gas
exports, mirroring a disagreement between fuel consumers such as
 Dow Chemical Co.  and producers such as  Exxon Mobil Corp.   Senator  Ron Wyden  of Oregon, the new chairman of the Energy
and Natural Resources Committee, said unfettered exports could
drive up domestic prices for U.S. manufacturers, and vowed to
push legislation to change guidelines for the government to
approve exports of the fuel. Senator  Lisa Murkowski  of Alaska,
the panel’s top Republican, said exports are “real money,” and
warned against making decisions best left to markets.  “I don’t think dragging our feet is an option here,”
Murkowski said today at a hearing about U.S. development of
natural gas supplies.  Representatives of oil and gas producers and manufacturers
said a boom in U.S. natural-gas  production  has created a
renaissance in manufacturing and lowered carbon-dioxide
emissions, which are tied by scientists to climate change, to
the lowest levels in years.  “Natural gas has made American industry more
competitive,” Colorado Governor  John Hickenlooper , a Democrat,
said at the hearing. “American chemical and fertilizer
industries are growing because of inexpensive natural gas.
Foreign investment in electricity-intensive industries has also
been flowing into the country.”  Exxon, Dow  Exxon , the nation’s largest producer of natural gas, says
exports will create jobs, encourage more production and lower
the trade deficit.  Dow , the largest U.S. chemical maker by
revenue, uses gas and its byproducts and leads a coalition that
wants to keep prices low by limiting the amount that leaves the
country.  Exporting gas will occupy Wyden’s committee after he vowed
to push measures that would tweak Energy Department oversight of
liquefied natural gas exports. He echoed comments of Dow Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris , who said gas exports will
raise domestic prices for the fuel and he expressed unease at
unfettered overseas sales.  Wyden pledged to examine if the department’s “guidelines
are what they need to be.” He didn’t provide details.  The Energy Department is reviewing 16 applications to build
export terminals to ship supplies to countries that don’t have
free trade agreements with the U.S., a group that includes
Japan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  