-- FDIC Advances Rule to Keep Deposit Insurance Within U.S.
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-12T19:26:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/fdic-weighs-rule-to-keep-deposit-insurance-within-u-s-.html
U.S. banks would have to restructure
how they handle deposits in their U.K. branches under a rule
proposed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. in answer to a
U.K. regulatory push for more depositor protections.  U.S. bank branches in the U.K. may have to make deposits
payable in both jurisdictions to avoid running afoul of U.K.
expectations that depositors there be put on even ground with
those in the U.S. if the bank fails. The rule proposed today by
the unanimous FDIC board clarifies how that would work while
insisting its deposit-insurance fund stay walled off to non-U.S.
deposits.  The U.K.’s Financial Services Authority has been trying to
ensure depositors to non-U.K. bank branches are treated
similarly to those in the institutions’ home countries during
bank liquidations. The FDIC proposal is meant to align with
those changes while guaranteeing the FSA’s eventual requirements
don’t result in the FDIC insuring deposits there.  “Today’s proposed regulation would allow U.S. banks with
U.K. branches to exercise existing authority that would bring
them into compliance with the FSA’s proposal by making deposits
payable in the United States, without triggering U.S. deposit
insurance coverage,” said FDIC Chairman  Martin Gruenberg .  The FDIC’s  proposal  says depositors at overseas branches of
U.S. banks, typically large corporations rather than retail
customers, could be granted so-called depositor preference if
the deposits were also payable in the U.S. In case of a bank
failure, that would put the uninsured depositors in line ahead
of general creditors.  Changing Agreements  “If the FDIC addresses only whether a deposit is insured
or not, it doesn’t seem to be addressing the underlying issue,”
said  Michael Krimminger , a former FDIC general counsel who left
the agency last year to work for Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP in Washington.  He said his U.S. banking clients would have preferred that
the regulator eliminate discrepancies with U.K. protections by
simply granting depositor preference to the deposits in their
overseas branches without requiring that they also be payable in
the U.S. The FDIC instead focused on protecting its insurance
fund and forcing banks to change their deposit agreements,
Krimminger said.  The FDIC’s vote opened the rule for a 60-day public comment
period before it is presented to the board for a final approval.  The FSA’s rulemaking process is also continuing, and  Arthur Murton , director of the FDIC’s insurance and research division,
told the board that U.K. regulators have been receptive to the
U.S. proposal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  