-- Fed’s District Banks Back Tougher Money Market Oversight
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-02-12T21:34:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/fed-s-12-district-banks-back-tougher-money-market-fund-oversight.html
The presidents of all 12 Federal
Reserve regional banks backed tougher oversight of some money-
market mutual funds to strengthen the financial system, saying
one alternative is to replace the fixed $1 share price with a
market-based value.  The Fed’s  regional bank chiefs  said in a joint letter to
the Financial Stability Oversight Council that their
recommendations focus mainly on prime funds, which are those
that can buy corporate debt, because they are subject to the
greatest credit risk.  “We agree with the council’s proposed determination that
the conduct, nature, size, scale, concentration and
interconnectedness of MMFs’ activities and practices could
create or increase the risk of significant liquidity and credit
problems spreading among bank holding companies, nonbank
financial companies and the financial markets” of the U.S., the
Fed regional bank presidents said in a letter dated today.  “For this reason, we support the council’s efforts to
address the structural vulnerabilities” of the funds, the
central bank officials said in a letter released by the Boston
Fed.  Five months after beating back a regulatory plan by then-
Chairman  Mary Schapiro  of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, fund companies acknowledge they face longer odds in
blocking a similar proposal expected to reach SEC commissioners
before the end of March. The agency is being pressed to
reconsider changes by the FSOC, a risk-monitoring panel that
includes the heads of the Fed and the Treasury Department.  Tougher Rules  The Fed presidents’ letter “runs up the numbers for the
voices in favor of reform,” said  Peter Crane , president of
Crane Data LLC, a research firm in Westborough, Massachusetts.
“The handful of regulators that do seriously believe reforms
would do more good than harm are looking for more voices to join
them.”  Still, without a new SEC chairman or U.S. Treasury
Secretary in place, it’s “mystifying” how regulators can
achieve significantly stronger oversight, Crane said.  Timothy F. Geithner  in January ended his term as Treasury
Secretary, a post that includes leadership of FSOC. While the
Treasury has said the SEC is best suited to oversee money funds,
the FSOC could subject funds to Fed oversight by individually
designating them as important to financial stability.  “It’s far from a done deal” and “both sides are having
an easy time criticizing one another,” Crane said. “It’s a
decent bet that nothing’s going to happen until you get new
chairpeople in both of those roles.”  Wider Run  Regulators have worked to impose tighter restrictions on
money funds since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5
billion Reserve Primary Fund. Its failure, caused by losses on
debt issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., triggered a wider
run on prime funds that helped freeze global credit markets.  “As currently structured, MMFs provide a stable price at
which an investor may purchase or sell an interest in the MMF,
but MMFs have no explicit loss-absorption capacity,” the Fed
bank presidents said in the letter. “By allowing redemptions at
a constant share price rather than at a share price reflecting
the current market value of the underlying portfolio assets,
MMFs give investors a financial incentive to redeem before
others during times of stress. As such, reforms are necessary.”  Money managers have said allowing a floating net asset
value would destroy the appeal of money funds, which are often
used as a substitute for holding cash.  Biggest Funds  Three of the five largest U.S. money-market fund managers,
signaling they can’t stop a second attempt by regulators to
overhaul rules for the $2.7 trillion industry, are fighting
instead to limit the scope of any changes.  Fidelity Investments, Vanguard Group Inc. and Charles
Schwab Corp. are urging regulators to exempt retail-oriented
funds and focus on those that cater to institutional clients and
buy corporate debt, a category that absorbed the bulk of an
investor run in 2008.  The Fed regional bank presidents offered the first reaction
from regulators to an industry plan proposed in October that
would seek to bolster money funds by imposing withdrawal
restrictions on funds under stress.  “These mechanisms, as proposed by some industry
participants, do not meet reform requirements,” they said in
the letter.  Fund companies, including BlackRock Inc. and Fidelity
Investments, presented their plan to SEC commissioners as a
substitute for FSOC’s proposals. Industry leaders believe the
council’s recommendations would destroy the attraction of money
funds to investors and deny borrowers a cheap source of short-
term funding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Caroline Salas Gage  in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
 Christopher Condon  in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  