-- Fiat Said to Discuss Financing Ahead of Chrysler Purchase
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-02-12T17:59:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/fiat-said-to-discuss-financing-ahead-of-chrysler-purchase.html
Fiat SpA  is discussing financing
options with banks to strengthen its balance sheet in
preparation to buy the Chrysler Group LLC stake it doesn’t own,
three people familiar with the matter said.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both
automakers, has held talks with banks to help pay for at least
some of the 41.5 percent held by the United Auto Workers medical
benefits trust for Chrysler retirees, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the talks are private. A final deal
may take months because Fiat and the trust disagree over the
value of the shares, they said.  Marchionne is evaluating options that include a bridge loan
to complete the deal, two of the people said. The Italian
carmaker may pay around 2.23 billion euros ($2.98 billion) to
buy the remaining stake, according to an estimate from Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., which sees a deal possible within 12 months.  Marchionne is relying on Auburn Hills, Michigan-based
Chrysler to sustain earnings as he works to end losses at Fiat’s
mass-market brands in Europe by 2015 at the earliest. The
Italian carmaker, which would have posted a 1.04 billion-euro
loss in 2012 without Chrysler, has been looking to buy the
remaining stake to get access to the American automaker’s cash
and push integration of the two.  “We believe the deal remains inevitable,” said  Max Warburton , an analyst at Bernstein Research in Singapore. “The
move will allow Fiat and Chrysler to pool cash in due course and
ensure that Chrysler’s cash generation can support Fiat.”  UAW’s Confirmation  The UAW, based in Detroit, confirmed that Fiat is in
discussions with the union trust.  “They’ve been talking for quite a while,” union President
 Bob King  said today in an interview. The trust has “an
independent fiduciary who has full responsibility for” the
Chrysler stock and its value. “We’re appreciative of the
efforts and hopeful that things get worked out in a fair way.”  Fiat  dropped  0.1 percent to 4.41 euros at the close in
Milan. The stock has gained 16 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 5.52 billion euros.  Banks are pitching Fiat on raising capital to strengthen
its balance sheet, keep debt under control and sustain cash as
it buys the rest of Chrysler, two of the people said. Fiat may
need to boost capital by 1.5 billion euros, one of the people
said. The Italian carmaker doesn’t plan to sell a stake in
Ferrari to finance the deal, one person said.  Fiat representatives declined to comment on possible
financing talks.  Cash Reserves  Marchionne said Feb. 3 that a share sale would make sense
only for “strategic moves” as the Agnelli family, which
controls Fiat through  Exor SpA , has already invested enough in
the company. Fiat denied in December that it was planning to
issue new shares to raise money to boost its Chrysler holding.
Fiat also ruled out such a move last week, Warburton said in a
Feb. 11 note, citing a New York meeting Fiat had with investors.  Fiat , excluding Chrysler, “has adequate liquidity levels
to deal with operating needs, investment plans and any
uncertainty in markets” and doesn’t need to monetize assets,
the automaker said in a slide presentation for an investor
meeting Feb. 7 posted on its website.  Fiat is also weighing whether to pay for part of the stake
with its own shares, one of the people said.  Fiat, excluding Chrysler, had 9.1 billion euros of cash and
1.95 billion euros of undrawn credit lines at the end of 2012,
with net debt from industrial activities of 5.05 billion euros.
Chrysler had 8.8 billion euros of cash and 985 million euros of
undrawn credit lines, with net debt of 1.5 billion euros at the
end of last year, Fiat said Jan. 30.  Exercising Options  “Fiat has to sell assets or has to sell shares,”  Harald Hendrikse , an analyst at Citigroup in London, wrote in a note to
investors yesterday.  Southern European companies have been able to replace
existing debt facilities in the past two months as credit
conditions in the region improve.  Fiat Industrial SpA , the truck
and tractor maker spun off from car manufacturer Fiat in 2011,
refinanced a two billion-euro credit line last week, and  Enel
SpA , Italy’s largest power company, yesterday extended 9.4
billion euros of loans two years before they were due.  The Italian carmaker has announced plans to exercise
options to raise its Chrysler holding to 65 percent from the
current 58.5 percent. Fiat has yet to receive those shares from
the trust because the two are disputing the automaker’s
valuation amid the trust’s efforts to sell part of its stake in
an initial public offering.  Completing Merger  A U.S. court decision on the price may come by the end of
the first quarter, Marchionne has said. Fiat plans to continue
using options it has to boost the holding by 3.3 percent every
six months to 75.1 percent, the CEO has said.  Marchionne, who targets increasing 2013  profit  to as much
as 4.5 billion euros from 3.81 billion euros last year, said
this month he’s confident of completing a merger with Chrysler
and solving the issue with the trust by the end of 2014.  Fiat may seek to buy the remaining holding before an IPO
because the Italian company has no interest in “diluting”
control, Marchionne said last month, adding that an IPO may be
ready by the fourth quarter.  An IPO process may help in setting the price for the stake,
Warburton said. Fiat will have to pay from 1.36 billion euros to
3.3 billion euros for the holding, he estimated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
David Welch in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  