-- Finmeccanica Bonds Decline as CEO Arrest Spurs Downgrade Concern
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-02-12T11:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/finmeccanica-bonds-decline-as-ceo-arrest-spurs-downgrade-concern.html
Finmeccanica SpA  bonds fell to the
lowest in 15 months after the arrest of Chief Executive Officer
 Giuseppe Orsi  triggered concern the company faces a credit
rating downgrade.  Finmeccanica’s 5.25 percent bonds due 2022 dropped as much
as 3 percent, or 3.19 cents on the euro, to 97.45 cents,
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show. The cost of credit-default
swaps insuring the Rome-based company’s debt for five years
jumped 23 basis points to 370, at 10:50 a.m. in London, the
biggest increase since November 2011.  Orsi was arrested in connection with an inquiry into
Italy’s biggest defense company paying bribes to win a contract
for the sale of 12 helicopters in India. The move
“significantly increased” the likelihood of a ratings
downgrade, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc analyst  Rodolphe Ranouil  said in a note to clients.  Finmeccanica said in a statement it expresses
“solidarity” with Orsi and denies any wrongdoing. The company
has the lowest investment grade BBB- ranking from Fitch Ratings.
Moody’s Investors Service grades it an equivalent Baa3, while
Standard & Poor’s downgraded it to a junk BB+ grade in January,
citing concern Finmeccanica won’t be able to improve capital
levels sufficiently by selling assets.  Fitch said in November it could downgrade the company to
junk if there are “significant adverse findings” in the
corruption probe.  Finmeccanica, which is 30 percent- owned  by the Italian
government, is undertaking its biggest overhaul in at least a
decade. It’s seeking to sell 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) of
assets to cut more than 4 billion euros of debt. The company
reported a record loss in 2011, when it booked 3.2 billion euros
of one-time charges and writedowns.  Vodafone Bond Sale  The cost of insuring debt of Vodafone Group Plc increased
after the U.K. phone company sold $6 billion of bonds yesterday,
the largest issue in the currency in more than three weeks.
Credit-default swaps insuring the Newbury-based company’s senior
debt rose two basis points to 86.  National Grid Plc  plans to sell benchmark euro-denominated
bonds due in five years to yield 70 basis points more than the
swap rate, the tight end of marketed guidance, a person with
knowledge of the deal said. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services
Italia, a unit of the luxury carmaker, plans to issue 150
million euros of floating-rate notes due August 2015.  In credit derivatives markets, the Markit iTraxx Europe
Index was little changed at 116 basis points. The Markit iTraxx
Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50 companies with
mostly speculative-grade ratings was unchanged at 455 basis
points.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on 25 banks and
insurers fell one basis point to 155.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hannah Benjamin  in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  