-- Finmeccanica Chief Orsi Said to Be Held in Bribery Probe
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o ,   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-12T17:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/finmeccanica-chief-orsi-said-to-be-held-in-bribery-probe.html
Finmeccanica SpA  Chief Executive
Officer  Giuseppe Orsi  was arrested in connection with a
corruption probe, threatening to derail asset sales aimed at
cutting the aerospace and defense company’s debt.  Orsi was jailed on accusations of corruption and tax fraud,
prosecutor  Eugenio Fusco  said today by phone from Busto Arsizio,
Italy.  Bruno Spagnolini , CEO of the AgustaWestland helicopter
unit, was placed under house arrest earlier today and faces the
same charges, Fusco said. Authorities are investigating alleged
illegal payments tied to a 560 million-euro ($753 million)
contract for the sale of 12 AW101 helicopters to India in 2010.
The company has denied wrongdoing.  Orsi, 67, has been undertaking the company’s biggest revamp
in at least a decade and is under pressure to deliver 1 billion
euros ($1.3 billion) in asset sales to reduce more than 4
billion euros in debt. The company had been pushing to dispose
of its Ansaldo Energia business, with the goal of announcing a
buyer before Italian elections begin on Feb. 24.  The arrest increases “the risk of material disruption in
the company’s strategy and day-to-day management as well as a
delay to its restructuring and asset disposal plan,” Fitch
Ratings said today in an e-mailed statement announcing it may
cut its BBB-  rating .  Finmeccanica slumped 7.3 percent, the  most  in more than a
year, to 4.41 euros in Milan. The stock was repeatedly suspended
for excessive volatility. Italy’s market regulator has banned
short selling of shares through tomorrow.  Unjustified Arrest  The Italian company, referring to the arrests only as
“precautionary measures,” said Finmeccanica will continue to
pursue its operations “as usual” and that it expresses support
of the managers, according to an e-mailed statement.  Evidence against Orsi is “inconsistent” and the arrest is
“unjustified,” the CEO’s lawyer,  Ennio Amodio , said in an e-
mailed statement. Finmeccanica’s board will tomorrow temporarily
give management powers to Chief Operating Officer  Alessandro Pansa , Radiocor reported, citing unidentified people close to
the situation.  The Milan offices of Italy’s biggest defense company,
Orsi’s house and premises of AgustaWestland in Italy were
searched, two people familiar with the probe said, who asked not
to be identified because the investigation is continuing.  The Indian Defense Ministry has asked the country’s Central
Bureau of Investigation to probe the charges. The contract
signed with AgustaWestland includes “specific contractual
provisions against bribery and the use of undue influence as
well as an integrity pact,” the ministry said in an e-mailed
statement.  Corruption Probes  The probe follows at least two other corruption
investigations involving the Rome-based defense contractor.
Former Chairman  Pier Francesco Guarguaglini  resigned after he
was targeted in one probe that led to criminal charges against
his wife, who ran a Finmeccanica unit. Guarguaglini said in a
Jan. 17  interview  with Il Sole 24 ore that he was acquitted.  “This could make Orsi’s position extremely fragile,” said
 Christophe Menard , a Paris-based analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets.  Standard & Poor’s cut Finmeccanica’s debt  rating  below
investment grade last month over concern that asset sales would
not sufficiently improve capital levels. The company will hold a
board meeting on Feb. 21 to review Samsung’s offer for Ansaldo
Energia, Antonio Apa, Secretary General of labor union Uilm said
Feb. 6.  Asset Sales  The board “will not be in a position to decide on the sale
of assets such as Ansaldo Energia or Ansaldo Breda and this
worries us as Mr. Orsi’s strategy was focused on avoiding any
capital increase and disposing of peripheral assets,”  Luca Conti , an analyst at  Banca Akros  in Milan, wrote in a note to
investors. Conti cut his  recommendation  on the stock to hold
from accumulate.  “There is an issue with the governance of Finmeccanica at
the moment and we will deal with it,” Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  said today on state-owned RAI television.  Finmeccanica received a C grade last year when Transparency
International, the non-profit watchdog, issued its first anti-
corruption index of defense companies. That mark indicates the
group found only “moderate” evidence that anti-corruption
systems were in place.  Orsi has previously denied any wrongdoing in the case and
said he would not resign.  “Orsi has done a fantastic job,” said  Nick Cunningham , an
analyst at London-based Agency Partners. “Even if he has to go,
Orsi has put in place many of the restructuring steps the
company has needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  