-- Fix Copyright for a Creative World
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2013-02-12T00:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/fix-copyright-for-a-creative-world.html
In a parallel universe, President
 Barack Obama , a progressive Democrat, says the following in his
State of the Union address:  Creativity is central to our prosperity and progress. The
Constitution recognized this by granting Congress the power of
“securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the
exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries.”
 Copyrights  give creators a financial incentive to produce new
works.  But, as artists from Walt Disney to Jay-Z have
demonstrated, new works also build on the past. Locking up
creative works for generations hampers the progress copyrights
are supposed to encourage. And the  retroactive extensions  of the
past few decades have convinced too many Americans that
Washington cares more about corporate interests than about the
public good.  I will therefore send a bill to Congress restoring the
copyright terms in effect before 1976: 28 years of protection
renewable for another 28 years. The bill will also include a
requirement that copyrights be registered with the Library of
Congress so that we don’t lose track of their owners.  Since the international treaty known as the Berne
Convention requires longer terms and prohibits registration, we
will work with our treaty partners to reform it as well and,
over the long run, to establish an international database that
allows anyone in the world to easily determine who owns the
copyright of any given work. Just as land deeds and car
registrations -- and patent and trademark filings -- make
physical and intellectual property more secure and certain, so
copyrights deserve similar clear records.  Some will claim that these reforms will hamper artists. But
these are the rules that gave us the music of Louis Armstrong
and Elvis Presley, Bob Dylan and Motown. The rules that governed
the writings of F. Scott Fitzgerald, Wallace Stevens and Zora
Neale Huston. The rules that protected the paintings of Georgia
O’Keeffe, Norman Rockwell and Jackson Pollock. They are the
rules that produced “Casablanca,” “The Wizard of Oz,” “Star
Trek” and “I Love Lucy.”  Americans don’t need today’s extreme copyrights to be
creative. Neither do the citizens of the world. We need sensible
protections that balance financial incentives with creative
freedom.  ( Virginia Postrel  is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions
expressed are her own. This is one of 11 suggestions Bloomberg View
columnists made for the foreign policy section of Barack Obama's
State of the Union address. Read more  here .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 