-- Four Alabama Football Players Charged Following Campus Robberies
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-02-13T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/four-alabama-football-players-arrested-on-robbery-fraud-charges.html
Four University of Alabama football
players have been suspended from the team after being arrested
on charges of robbery and fraudulent use of a credit card, the
school said.  Running back Brent Calloway, defensive back Eddie Williams,
defensive lineman Dennis Pettway and linebacker Tyler Hayes were
booked into the Tuscaloosa County Jail two days ago, according
to a listing of arrests on the sheriff’s office website.  All four players were freshmen members of the Crimson
Tide’s national championship team this past season.  “The university and football program have strict
guidelines regarding issues of this magnitude,” Alabama coach
 Nick Saban  said in a statement. “This behavior is unacceptable
for any student-athlete at the University of Alabama and not
representative of our football program.”  The players were arrested by university police after two
separate robberies on the Tuscaloosa campus, according to a
statement released by the school.  Hayes, Pettway and Williams were charged with second-degree
robbery, according to the website. Williams also was charged
with fraudulent use of a credit card. Calloway was charged with
fraudulent use of a credit card, according to the web posting.  The website didn’t list any information on legal
representation for the four. All four were released on bond --
Hayes and Pettway $60,000 each on the robbery charges; Williams
$60,000 on the robbery count and $5,000 on the fraud charge, and
Calloway $5,000 on the fraud count.  Lieutenant Andy Norris, a spokesman for the sheriff’s
office, didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking
additional information.  Alabama defeated the University of Notre Dame 42-14 last
month to win its third Bowl Championship Series title in a four-
year span.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  