-- France to Boost Oversight After Horse Meat Discoveries
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-13T17:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/france-to-boost-oversight-after-horse-meat-discoveries-in-meals.html
France will enhance oversight of
meat- and fish-processing industries for the remainder of the
year after horse meat was found in prepared meals advertised as
containing beef.  Carrefour SA ,  Casino Guichard Perrachon SA  and four other
French supermarket chains withdrew frozen foods including
lasagna Bolognese over the weekend due to mislabeling of the
meat content. France plans to step up controls of wholesalers
and importers as well as in supermarkets.  “We have here a serious deceit of consumers,”  Benoit Hamon , France’s junior minister for consumer affairs, said at a
news conference in Paris yesterday. “For all of 2013, we’ll be
placing the meat and fish industries under surveillance.”  France, the European Union’s biggest food producer, will
push to introduce compulsory labeling of origin for meat in
processed food at a meeting in Brussels tomorrow, Agriculture
Minister  Stephane Le Foll  said yesterday. Labels on processed
food are now only required by EU rules to indicate the type of
meat used, while fresh meat must specify country of origin, he
said.  Supermarkets in the U.K., France, Ireland and Germany
removed frozen beef burgers and lasagnas from shelves, and the
food industry may be hit by “a blizzard of red tape” as a
result, according to  Bryan Roberts , director of retail at market
researcher Kantar Retail on London.  Increased labeling requirements may raise administrative
costs for meat processors, said  Albert Vernooij , red-meat
analyst at Rabobank International in Utrecht, the Netherlands.  “Processed meat often contains meat from multiple batches
from multiple countries,” Vernooij said. “The supply chain
will not change. Maybe it will reduce the number of parties in
the supply chain. It will certainly raise costs.”  Prepared Meals  Prepared meals labeled as beef-based and containing horse
were sold by Findus Group Ltd. and manufactured at a Luxembourg
factory owned by French company Comigel, France’s consumer and
anti-fraud office DGCCRF reported Feb. 9.  Comigel’s supplier was Spanghero SAS, which had bought the
frozen meat from a Cypriot trader. The latter in turn sub-
contracted a Dutch trader who sourced the meat from a
slaughterhouse and a meat packer in Romania, according to the
DGCCRF.  “There were signals that should have alerted the actors,”
Le Foll said, citing questionable labeling and a below-market
price paid for the meat. Le Foll said those responsible will be
found by the end of the week.  France will pursue penalties against the companies involved
in the horse-for-beef substitution, either for negligence or
fraud, said Guillaume Garot, the country’s junior minister for
the food industry. “Sanctions will be taken,” he said.  Alarm Signal  “If you buy meat at a price that is clearly lower than the
market average, that’s maybe an alarm signal about the nature of
the meat you’re buying,” Hamon said.  EU countries are individually responsible for verifying
what is sold in their markets, including whether food is
correctly labeled, EU spokesman Frederic Vincent said yesterday.
The European Commission, the bloc’s executive arm, can take
measures when food safety is at risk, he said.  A squeeze on profit margins means processors may be eager
to secure low-cost meat, as long as certification is in order,
according to Rabobank’s Vernooij.  “The meat price is often at or below the cost of
production,” Vernooij said. “In the stores, the cost increase
of the past year hasn’t really been passed through, that’s an
underlying problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  