-- France’s National Assembly Votes in Favor of Gay Marriage
-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 2013-02-12T16:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/france-s-national-assembly-votes-in-favor-of-gay-marriage.html
France’s National Assembly voted in
favor of legalizing gay marriage, after weeks of debates and
demonstrations both against and for the proposed law.  The lower house of the French parliament voted the bill in
329 versus 229, with a debate on the issue in the upper house,
or Senate, slated to start from April 2. Agence France-Presse
reported.  The bill, which sailed through the National Assembly owing
to the large majority held by President  Francois Hollande ’s
Socialist Party and its allies, marks the first major social
plan he has pushed through since his election in May and would
fulfill a campaign promise.  It mirrors the passage this month in the House of Commons
of a bill to legalize gay marriage in England and Wales,
bringing them into line with countries such as Spain and South
Africa.  The French bill -- known by its slogan “marriage for all”
-- gives same-sex partnerships equal status with heterosexual
unions and allows gays to adopt children.  The bill divided France, a predominantly Catholic country.
Opinion polls show that a majority of French voters favor giving
same-sex couples the right to marry, though they oppose giving
such couples rights to adoption or medically-assisted
procreation.  Pollster BVA found that 58 percent of voters favor gay
marriage, while 53 percent oppose adoption for gay couples,
according to a survey published last month. CSA, another polling
company, found that 52 percent favor gay marriage and the same
proportion oppose adoption by same-sex couples.  Protests  On Jan. 13, about 340,000 people converged under the Eiffel
Tower to protest against the proposal, according to police
estimates. Organizers put the turnout at more than 800,000.
Protesters dancing to hip-hop music carried flags with white
images of the traditional family: man, woman and two children.  “There are many people who are worried about this law,”
 Laurent Wauquiez , a minister under former President  Nicolas Sarkozy , said that day on Europe 1 radio. “Do we have to
destroy the family and the place of children in it? We must pay
attention to the place of children.”  Sarkozy’s  Union for a Popular Movement  party had called for
a referendum on the issue.  On Jan. 27, a demonstration in favor of the bill drew about
125,000 people onto the streets of Paris, according to the
police. The event’s organizers estimated the turnout at about
400,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  