-- Funds Cite CMBS Top Bet After Subprime Gains: Mortgages
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2013-02-12T14:07:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/funds-cite-cmbs-top-bet-after-subprime-gains-mortgages.html
Hedge funds seeking the hottest
trade of 2013 are turning to skyscrapers, shopping malls and
hotels after last year’s rebound in residential  real-estate 
drove the industry’s best gains.  Boaz Weinstein , founder of Saba Capital Management LP, and
 Tom Kempner  of Davidson Kempner Capital Management LLC cited
commercial property bonds as their best investment idea last
week at the EnTrust Investment Summit in New York, according to
a person who attended and asked not to be named because it was a
private event.  Jamie Dinan , founder of York Capital Management
LP, also speaking at the conference in the Waldorf Astoria
Hotel, said his top pick is commercial property and stocks.  The managers, who can buy everything from corporate loans
to stocks and derivatives, are joining mortgage-bond investors
including Seer Capital Management LP and LibreMax Capital LLC
touting commercial real-estate after property values recovered
45 percent since bottoming in December 2009. Firms are mainly
investing in the $550 billion commercial mortgage backed
securities market after the hedge-fund industry reaped its
biggest gains last year on bets tied to subprime-home loans.  “The fundamentals in CMBS have very slowly been repairing
itself over the past three to four years, yet residential real
estate received so much focus last year because finally after
six years the housing market bottomed out,”  Philip Weingord ,
chief executive officer of Seer, said last week in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “CMBS underperformed many of the other
sectors last year from a price perspective, but actually
performed quite well from a fundamental credit perspective.”  Significant Upside  Home-loan bonds without government backing returned an
average of about 21 percent last year, according to Amherst
Securities Group LP, with some notes tied to subprime borrowers
rising more than 40 percent. That compares with gains of 10
percent to 12 percent for commercial debt, suggesting “CMBS
still has significant upside,” Seer wrote in a letter to
investors last month.  The $1.7 billion New York-based fund, started in 2009,
increased its holdings of commercial-mortgage bonds to 23.8
percent as of Dec. 31, from less than 15 percent in September,
according to the letter.  Weinstein, the former co-head of global credit trading at
Deutsche Bank AG, started Saba in 2009 to profit on price
discrepancies between loans, bonds and derivatives and now
manages $5.3 billion. Last year he wagered against the JPMorgan
Chase & Co. trader who earned the nickname the London Whale
because his outsized trades were distorting prices in a credit-
derivative index.  Long-Short  He said last week at the EnTrust meeting that investors
should buy commercial-mortgage securities and equities, while
shorting, or betting on price declines, in a high-yield  index .
Saba rose 3.9 percent last month, according to a person familiar
with the matter.  Jonathan Gasthalter , a spokesman for the New York-based
fund, and  Robert Siegfried , for $19 billion Davidson Kempner,
declined to comment on the event.  Mary Beth Grover , a
spokeswoman for $14.8 billion York, also based in New York,
declined to comment.  Investors are buying CMBS and commercial property as
buildings in large cities such as New York and San Francisco
lead gains in the U.S., according to Moody’s Investors Service.
Norway’s sovereign-wealth fund, the world’s largest, said
yesterday it agreed to purchase a 49.9 percent stake in five
U.S. office properties from TIAA-CREF, its first real estate
investment in the world’s largest economy.  Delinquency Rate  Landlords are also finding it easier to stay current on
mortgage payments. The delinquency rate on commercial mortgages
packaged into securities fell 10 basis points to about 9 percent
in December, according to Barclays Plc. The rate has been
falling since reaching a record 9.7 percent in July when
borrowers struggled to refinance maturing debt taken out during
the market’s 2007 peak.  That’s helped drive new bond sales, which is a boon for
borrowers with loans coming due as landlords are able to access
financing to pay off debt on everything from Manhattan
skyscrapers to strip malls in Texas. Issuance is forecast to
increase by more than 50 percent from last year to as much as
$70 billion in 2013, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. Banks
arranged about $8.3 billion in new CMBS deals in January, the
highest monthly volume since 2007, according to JPMorgan.  UBS AG and Barclays may sell a $1.5 billion deal later this
week and Morgan Stanley is planning a $193 million offering
backed by an office building in Los Angeles that houses Oprah
Winfrey’s network.  “All signs point to continued expansion in the commercial
real estate market,” JPMorgan analysts led by  Ed Reardon  said
in a Feb. 8 report. “Financing conditions continue to drive the
commercial real estate recovery.”  Fund Involvement  Prices on a Markit Group Ltd. CMBX index linked to bonds
rated AAA during the boom, many of which have been cut to junk,
reached a 12-month high of 70.6 cents on the dollar on Jan. 9,
up from 54 cents on May 17. The index has since dropped to 67.9,
with some analysts speculating the rally may have run its
course.  “We are still seeing hedge funds involved, but there was
quite a bit of profit-taking by hedge funds in January,” said
 Stephen Schwartz , who trades the debt at RBC Capital Markets in
New York.  Chasing Yields  Managers chasing higher yields in the CMBS market may
struggle to find bonds that meet their return hurdles after the
recent rally, said  Harris Trifon , a commercial-mortgage debt
analyst at Deutsche Bank.  “For the sector to be an attractive trade over the
remainder of 2013, there would have to be a meaningful
retracement,” Trifon said in a telephone interview. “It’s
increasingly difficult to believe the magnitude of future price
appreciation will be in line” with previous performance, he
said.  The pace that property values are increasing has also
slowed in recent months, with prices climbing 0.4 percent in
November, according to a Jan. 10 report. Commercial real-estate
values will probably be unchanged or down in some markets in
2013, according to the New York-based rating company.  “With many investors’ expectations becoming overly
optimistic, we think the recent market pause is not only
healthy, but also gives investors a chance to reassess their
expectations,” Bank of America Corp. analysts led by  Alan Todd 
said in a Feb. 8 report.  Relative Value  Still, as the Federal Reserve keeps benchmark borrowing
costs near zero for a fifth year, investors are being pushed
into riskier debt. Yields on a record 38 percent of the $1.1
trillion of notes sold by junk-rated U.S. corporate borrowers
were trading below the 10-year average rate for investment-grade
debentures last month, Barclays data show. Investors poured a
record $1.3 billion into U.S. leveraged loan funds last week as
covenants on the debt weaken the most ever.  With prices being pushed up across credit markets, money
managers are viewing commercial property debt as a better
relative investment than securities tied to residential.  “Even with continued improvement in the housing market, it
is not clear that much upside remains at current prices,”  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management Corp. wrote in a fourth quarter
letter to investors on Jan. 28.  The $21 billion New York-based manager said it’s reduced a
“significant portion” of RMBS holdings and will continue to
sell this year. The firm is “optimistic” about commercial
mortgage-backed securities.  “The parts of the capital structure that will be the
‘winners’ and ‘losers’ have become increasingly clear, and
prices are making large moves towards either par or zero,”
Elliott wrote in the letter.  LibreMax Switch  Greg Lippmann ’s LibreMax began wagering on commercial-
mortgage securities in 2012, according to a November letter to
investors. The $2.4 billion New York-based hedge fund also
reduced bullish wagers on subprime mortgage bonds and shifted
more toward commercial-mortgage bonds, collateralized loan
obligations and consumer-tied securities in the third quarter of
2012, Lippmann wrote.  The share of commercial-mortgage bonds among bullish bets
at LibreMax rose to 15 percent on Sept. 30 from 9 percent at the
end of the first quarter, the period in which it started trading
those bonds, according to the letter. Lippmann is the former
Deutsche Bank trader who bet against home-loan debt before the
housing slump.  There are pockets of value to be found, particularly for
funds that can boost returns by financing their purchases,
according to Trifon of Deutsche Bank.  “While future gains might not match those from the recent
past, the sector continues to be an attractive place to invest
on a relative basis to other fixed-income markets,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  