-- Gay Rights Pushed to Fore in Range of Pressing Issues
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   C a i t l i n   W e b b e r
-- 2013-02-12T20:31:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/gay-rights-pushed-to-fore-in-range-of-pressing-issues.html
A Pentagon announcement that it will
open military commissaries and child-care facilities this year
to the same-sex partners of service members propels a wave of
gay rights issues sweeping onto the national agenda.  Even as Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  was announcing
yesterday the changes in military benefits, the U.S. Senate was
debating a renewal of the Violence Against Women Act, which for
the first time would extend federal protection to homosexual
partners suffering domestic abuse. The Senate voted 78 to 22
today to renew the measure.  The White House is pressing Congress to grant immigration
benefits to same-sex couples, and the U.S. Supreme Court is
getting ready to hear a challenge to a 1996 federal law that
defines marriage as solely a union between a man and a woman.  “Things are changing,” said Senator  Dianne Feinstein , a
California Democrat. “It’s slow, but it’s happening here. As
states legalize same-sex marriage, I think this is having a
remedial effect all around the nation.”  President  Barack Obama  elevated the cause of gay rights to
the level of civil-rights struggles for blacks and women in his
Jan. 21 inauguration speech.  “Our journey is not complete,” he said, “until our gay
brothers and sisters are treated like anyone else under the law,
for if we are truly created equal, then surely the love we
commit to one another must be equal, as well.”  With  polls showing  public sentiment shifting toward
acceptance of same-sex marriage, some Republicans are caught
between the moderating social views of the country overall and
the continuing opposition to the gay rights agenda by their
party’s base of evangelicals and cultural traditionalists.  Rubio’s Concern  Republican Senator  Marco Rubio  of Florida, one of his
party’s potential 2016 presidential candidates, cautions that
efforts to accept same-sex marriage could stall legislation.  “If that issue becomes a central issue in the debate, it’s
going to endanger passage absolutely,” Rubio said of efforts to
revamp immigration laws.  Regarding the sexual orientation language in the Senate
version of the Violence Against Women Act, Rubio said “I wish
we would have just reauthorized the existing law, which has
broad and wide support.”  Public attitudes toward gay unions have shifted since Obama
entered the Oval Office. Fifty-one percent of Americans now
support same-sex marriage compared with 41 percent three years
ago, according to NBC News/Wall Street Journal polls taken in
December 2012 and October 2009.  Voter Approval  Same-sex marriage was approved by voters in November in
Maryland, Maine and Washington, the first time such unions were
endorsed at the ballot box. Since same-sex marriages first were
granted legal status by a Massachusetts court ruling in 2004,
the unions have been authorized in Connecticut, Iowa, New
Hampshire, Vermont and the District of Columbia.  “With respect to gay rights, we have seen the public come
very far in their understanding that gays and lesbians should
enjoy the same civil rights as anyone else,” Representative
 Gwen Moore , a Wisconsin Democrat, said in an interview.  Moore is sponsoring a House bill reauthorizing the Violence
Against Women Act that includes language to prohibit
discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender
identity.  The military, which until 2011 prohibited gays from serving
openly, will extend benefits such as child care, commissary
privileges and transportation to military bases to same-sex
partners by Aug. 31 and no later than Oct. 1, Panetta said in a
memo.  Federal Barrier  Other benefits provided for spouses, including health care
and housing allowances, remain barred because the Defense of
Marriage Act, which prohibits federal recognition of gay
marriage, continues to apply to the Defense Department, Panetta
said.  The Obama administration opposes the law as
unconstitutional. The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear the
issue this term. The administration’s decision not to support
the law left it to congressional Republicans, led by House
Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio, to spearhead its defense.  A Supreme Court ruling could alter the legal climate for
gay couples and have significant tax consequences. Even when
legally married in their home states, same-sex couples currently
aren’t considered married for federal tax purposes -- either for
income or for estates -- because of the current law.  “They will typically file joint returns for state purposes
and separate returns for federal purposes, so obviously a lot
more work,” said Theodore Seto, a tax professor at Loyola Law
School in Los Angeles.  Estate Issue  Because same-sex spouses aren’t treated as married for
federal tax purposes, when one spouse dies assets don’t transfer
to the survivor free of estate taxes. With heterosexual married
couples, the estate tax is applied only upon the death of the
second spouse.  The legislation the Senate voted on today includes a
provision prohibiting discrimination against gays in grant
programs for domestic violence victims.  Advocates say that explicit protections are necessary to
clarify that programs serving gay and transgender victims are
eligible to receive funds authorized under the law.  The name of the law, the Violence Against Women Act, can
cause confusion particularly over the eligibility of services
for gay men, said Sharon Stapel, executive director of the New
York City Anti-Violence Project, an organization that advocates
for services for gay victims of domestic violence.  ‘Clear Message’  Including non-discrimination language “gives everyone --
legislators, service providers, grant administrators and the
survivors of violence who are experiencing this violence every
day -- a clear message that they are included in this
legislation and if they reach out for help, someone will be
there to help them,” Stapel said in an interview.  Iowa Senator  Charles Grassley , the top Republican on the
Senate Judiciary panel with jurisdiction over the legislation,
said he and party colleagues find the same-sex provisions
“superfluous” because a 2005 reauthorization of the law
included language prohibiting discrimination on the basis of
religion, age and other criteria without specifying sexual
orientation.  “The original legislation doesn’t allow discrimination of
any kind anyway,” Grassley said in an interview.  Spousal Visas  Obama’s immigration  proposal  calls for foreign nationals in
same-sex relationships to be treated the same as other couples
when petitioning for spousal visas. Immigration coverage for gay
couples wasn’t included in  principles  for a comprehensive
overhaul released last month by a bipartisan group of senators.  Republican Senators  John McCain  of Arizona and  Lindsey Graham  of South Carolina, who are among a bipartisan group of
eight senators pushing for an immigration bill, have said that
including same-sex marriage in the package would threaten a
deal.  Representative  Jerrold Nadler , a New York Democrat who
backs visas for gay partners, said in an interview that
“keeping a loving couple apart” is “gratuitously cruel.”  There were an estimated 28,500 same-sex couples with one
non-citizen partner in the U.S. in 2010, according to a 2011
 study  by the Williams Institute, a group at the University of
California-Los Angeles that focuses on lesbian, gay, bisexual
and transgender research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mike Dorning  in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 