-- George Says Fed Sale of Assets May Disrupt Markets
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-02-12T18:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/george-says-fed-sale-of-assets-may-disrupt-financial-markets.html
Kansas City Federal Reserve Bank
President  Esther George  said the central bank may trigger
instability in financial markets when it eventually begins to
sell assets from its record balance sheet.  The Fed’s current plan for selling securities “could be
potentially disruptive to markets and market functioning,”
George said today in a speech at the University of Nebraska-
Omaha. “These actions are untested by the  Federal Reserve  and
could cause an unwelcome rise in mortgage interest rates.”  George dissented last month during her first meeting as a
voting member of the Federal Open Market Committee, opposing a
decision to press on with $85 billion in monthly bond purchases
aimed at spurring growth and reducing unemployment. The buying
has pushed the Fed balance sheet to $3.02 trillion.  The Kansas City Fed president voiced concern that “the
continued high level of monetary accommodation increased the
risks of future economic and financial imbalances and, over
time, could cause an increase in long-term inflation
expectations,” according to the FOMC’s  Jan. 30 statement.  “While I have agreed with keeping rates low to support
this recovery, I also know that keeping rates near zero has its
own set of consequences,” she said today.  Monetary easing can go too far in encouraging investors to
take on more risk, she said.  ‘Healthy Shift’  “Having spent a fair part of my Fed career examining
banks, I know it’s very difficult to identify the point where a
healthy shift toward risk becomes excessive and potentially
damaging,” said George, former head of bank supervision at the
Kansas City Fed.  The central bank’s current policy also “carries with it
the risk that longer-term inflation expectations may slip above
levels consistent with the committee’s 2 percent goal,” she
said.  “Standard measures of inflation look to be low, look to be
manageable over the medium term,” George said. Yet “in certain
asset classes we’re beginning to see price issues.”  George said in a speech last month in Kansas City that
prices “of assets such as bonds, agricultural land, and high-
yield and leveraged loans are at historically high levels” and
may signal market imbalances.  U.S. stocks were little changed today as investors watched
corporate earnings before President  Barack Obama ’s State of the
Union address. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.3
percent to 1,521.49 at 1:25 p.m. in New York. The index is up
6.7 percent this year.  George became president of the Kansas City Fed in October
2011, succeeding  Thomas Hoenig  who retired and was later named
vice chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. George was
the Kansas City Fed’s No. 2 official under Hoenig. She joined
 the Fed  in 1982.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Omaha, Nebraska at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  