-- German Banks Will Consider Hedge Fund Exit, Fitch Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-02-12T12:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/german-banks-will-consider-hedge-fund-exit-fitch-says.html
German banks may exit proprietary
trading and hedge-fund businesses rather than set up separate
units under a government plan to strengthen the finance
industry, according to Fitch Ratings Ltd.  The banks could opt to stop “restricted activities rather
than incur the costs of separation, as the affected businesses
make relatively small contributions to earnings,” Fitch
analysts including  Michael Dawson-Kropf  said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Only a few banks would end up putting trading
activities into separate subsidiaries.”  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s cabinet approved a draft bill
last week that would force deposit-taking banks to split the
trading they do for their own profit, along with lending and
guarantees to hedge funds, into separately capitalized units.
About 10-12 banks will be affected by the plan designed to avoid
a repeat of the taxpayer-funded bank rescues that followed the
2007 meltdown of the U.S. housing market, Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  told reporters in Berlin on Feb. 6.  Placing such activities in separate subsidiaries “would be
neutral to slightly positive for bank credit profiles” Fitch
said.  Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest bank, is the “most
obvious” candidate for setting up a separate subsidiary for the
affected activities, Fitch said.  Commerzbank AG , Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg and the local unit of  UniCredit SpA  may also
be among the firms required to establish the units or close down
the businesses, according to the ratings company.  Deposit banks would be required to separate the businesses,
which also include high frequency trading, when they exceed 100
billion euros ($136 billion), or 20 percent of the balance
sheet, according to the legislation. The BaFin financial
regulator would get discretionary powers that affect lenders not
covered by the limits.  The government aims to pass the draft law in the lower
house of parliament and gain upper-house approval in the first
half of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  