-- Ghana Fuel Subsidies to Cost $1.3 Billion, Agency Says
-- B y   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2013-02-12T15:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/ghana-fuel-subsidies-to-cost-1-3-billion-agency-says.html
Ghana, West Africa’s second-biggest
economy, will see its fuel-subsidy costs jump to 2.4 billion
cedis ($1.3 billion) this year, according to the state
petroleum-industry regulator, which wants the caps scrapped.  The value of subsidies in the country, where exports of
crude oil began in December 2010, “is expected to rise 140
percent,” Alexander Mould, chief executive officer of the
National Petroleum Authority, also known as NPA, said in an
interview in the capital, Accra, yesterday. “We expect
government to reduce or totally scrap the subsidy so we can pass
on the full cost to the consumer.”  There’s currently a subsidy of about 20 percent on gasoline
and diesel and 66 percent on liquefied petroleum gas, he said.
“Subsidy payments have cost the government a fortune, and have
consequently stifled other sectors of developmental funds.”  Ghana’s $39 billion economy was designated as lower middle-
income by the World Bank in 2009 after it revised how output is
measured. Growth led by rising exports of oil is forecast at 7.8
percent this year, faster than the sub-Saharan African outlook
of about 5.3 percent, according to the International Monetary
Fund.  While cutting subsidies will add pressure on inflation, the
rising costs of the caps have the “potential of crippling the
budget,”  Sampson Akligoh , head of research at Accra-based
Databank Financial Services Ltd., said by phone today. “Ghana
doesn’t have enough fiscal space to absorb subsidies.”  Crude Earnings  An increase of 15 percent or more in fuel price adds 2
percentage points to  inflation , according to Akligoh. The rate
fell to 8.8 percent in December, the lowest in nine months, the
Ghana Statistical Service said last month. The January rate will
be released tomorrow in Accra.  A liter of premium gasoline sells for 1.708 cedis,
according to the NPA’s website. The rate has been held since
February 2012, when it was cut by 2.7 percent.  Ghana’s crude exports in the nine months through September
were worth $2.1 billion, according to the Bank of Ghana. The
country’s budget deficit widened to 7.3 percent in the nine
months to September from 1.9 percent a year earlier, the central
bank’s data showed. The spending plan for 2013 will be announced
later this month or early in March, Finance Minister  Seth Terkper  said on Jan. 30.  After weakening 14 percent against the dollar in 2012, the
cedi has gained 0.1 percent so far this year and traded at
1.9025 by 2:48 p.m. in Accra.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  