-- Gilat Set for Two-Year High as Deals Seen to Fuel Profit
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-02-13T08:42:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/gilat-premium-swells-on-sales-outlook-israel-overnight.html
Gilat Satellite Networks Ltd.  headed
for the highest level in more than two years in Tel Aviv on
prospects new contracts will spur the Israeli company to post
the highest profit in three years.  The satellite technology developer  rallied 3.9 percent  to
21.53 shekels, or the equivalent of $5.83, at 9:58 a.m. in Tel
Aviv, headed for the highest level since Oct. 2010 and bringing
the two-day gain to 6 percent. The company’s U.S.-traded shares
advanced 8.5 percent to $5.88 yesterday. Israel-based Gilat led
gains on the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index  of the largest
Israeli companies traded in New York, driving the gauge to a
nine-month high.  Gilat said yesterday that it won a five-year contract
valued at $20 million to supply satellite networks to an
unidentified service provider. The order is at least the seventh
the company has received over the past three months, according
to the company’s  website . Gilat may post  earnings  of 24 cents
per share in 2013, the most since 2010, according to the mean of
 two analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “They’ve been doing really well, and they’ve been getting
a lot of contracts lately,”  Bruce Roberts , an analyst at
National Securities Corp. who rates Gilat buy, said by phone
yesterday from New York. The company’s management has “been
very effective and has definitely been focusing on cost cutting
and improving the sales,” he said.  The Bloomberg Israel-U.S. gauge added 0.4 percent to 88.79,
the highest level since May 3. Israel’s benchmark  TA-25  Index
rose 0.1 percent to 1,230.43 in Tel Aviv today.  Honeywell Contract  Gilat may report that sales rose 1.4 percent to $344
million in 2012 and will post 2013 revenue of $356.5 million,
according to the mean of two analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The developer is scheduled to report 2012 and fourth-
quarter earnings today.  The company’s share price more than doubled in the six
months through yesterday, making it the  third-best performer 
among 132 companies on the Nasdaq Telecommunications Index in
the last six months. Israeli technology developers AudioCodes
Ltd. and B.O.S. Better On-line Solutions Ltd. had the biggest
gains.  Gilat said on Feb. 7 that it was selected by India’s Nelco
Ltd. and Bharti Airtel Ltd. to provide secured satellite-based
communications as the main mode of connectivity for as many as
30,000 automated teller machines in India. The company won a
contract by Honeywell International Inc., a maker of flight
controls and thermostats, on Jan. 29.  CEO’s Strategy  Erez Antebi , who became Gilat’s chief executive officer in
January 2012, has worked to boost sales and control costs,
improving investor sentiment, Roberts said. Antebi previously
led Gilat’s entry into the the market for higher-frequency
satellite technology, known as ka-band.  “There’s a lot more satellites that are going up in space
that use ka-band, and that’s going to be a big driver for
them,” Roberts said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  