-- How Foreign Students Hurt U.S. Innovation
-- B y   N o r m a n   M a t l o f f
-- 2013-02-12T00:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/glut-of-foreign-students-hurts-u-s-innovation.html
In the old days, the U.S. program
for foreign-student visas helped developing nations and brought
diversity to then white-bread American campuses. Today, the F-1
program, as it is known, has become a profit center for
universities and a wage-suppression tool for the technology
industry.  International students are  attractive  to strapped colleges
because they tend to pay full tuition or, in the case of public
institutions, pay more than full price in out-of-state rates.  Last year, this was taken to a  new level  at California
State University, East Bay, a public institution just south of
Oakland. The school directed its master’s degree programs to
admit only non-California students, including foreign students.
Even before this edict, international students  made up  90
percent of its computer-science master’s program.  The pursuit of foreign students by U.S. schools affects not
only college access for Americans but also their careers. Back
in 1989, an internal report of the National Science Foundation
 forecast  that a large influx of F-1 doctoral students in
science, technology, engineering and math -- the STEM fields --
would suppress wages. The stagnant salaries would then drive the
American bachelor’s degree holders in these fields into more
lucrative areas, such as business and law, after graduation, and
discourage them from pursuing STEM doctorates.  Americans Diverted  This projection was dead-on. Contrary to the industry
lobbyists’ claim of student shortages in these fields, an
extensive 2007 Urban Institute  study  found that the U.S. has
plenty of STEM graduates at the bachelor’s degree level, but few
go on to graduate work in the field.  The shift has spawned a new term, “diversion,” alluding
to the STEM grads who are diverted to other fields. Other
professions use similar talents but pay much more and have
brighter job prospects. Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan  has also  advocated  importing foreign workers to hold
down wages (at all degree levels) in the technology industry.
Financially, “it’s  crazy  to go into STEM” if you are a young
person who is talented in math, as  Anthony Carnevale , the
director of Georgetown University’s Center on Education and the
Workforce, put it.  Yet, seemingly oblivious to this troubling situation,
President  Barack Obama  is proposing that we give special green
cards to all foreign graduate students in these fields.
Republican Senators  Orrin Hatch  and  Marco Rubio , among others,
have made similar proposals.  To such boosters, every foreign student is a future Nobel
laureate. As Democratic Representative  Zoe Lofgren , author of
one proposal, has said, “You can’t have too many geniuses.” To
be sure, there are individual students from abroad who prove her
point: the game changers. Yet the average quality of the
international STEM students is lower than that of the Americans.  Focusing on computer science and electrical engineering, my
recent research, which is scheduled to be published by the
 Economic Policy Institute  in March, compared American natives
with former F-1s who were working in the U.S. as of 2003. For
workers of comparable age, educational attainment and so on, the
former foreign students on average had fewer patent
applications, attended lower-ranked U.S. universities and were
less likely to be working in research and development positions.
( Here  is an earlier  report  I wrote.)  Interviewed after the Cal State East Bay furor, biology
professor Maria Nieto  said  the increase in foreign students had
decreased overall quality. The weak foreign students are being
admitted “because they can pay,” she added.  Oversupply Effect  Not only was Lofgren’s  comment  about the geniuses a lot of
hype, you can have too many STEM workers, as the National
Science Foundation internal report’s projection showed. Last
year, a commission appointed by the other top U.S. science
agency, the National Institutes of Health,  found  that a severe
oversupply has created a brutal job market for those who pursue
doctorates in science research.  According to the report, graduates endure a gantlet of
postdoctoral jobs (quasi-student positions that extend doctoral
training) at low pay and long hours for years, all the while not
knowing whether a permanent job will materialize in the end. For
those who do eventually secure an academic position in
biomedical research, the median age when starting the job is 37.  The NIH commission  found  that these bleak prospects may be
dissuading the best and brightest Americans from entering
careers in science research, and cited the large number of
foreign postdoctoral researchers as a major cause of the glut of
lab scientists. The Government Accountability Office has  noted 
the relationship between that oversupply to the availability of
foreign postdocs. About  54 percent  of these postdocs are
foreign.  None of this is to say the foreign student program should
be shut down. But we shouldn’t be reducing educational and
career opportunities for talented Americans.  Today, the  F-1  and similar programs are discouraging
qualified Americans from going into science and math careers,
and are bringing us diversion, not diversity. Aside from the
effect on individuals and their careers, there are serious
issues of national interest. Displacing those Americans who
might potentially be more innovative -- extrapolating from the
patents per-capita numbers -- and filling classrooms with
foreign students who aren’t as likely to produce such
breakthroughs is a net economic loss for the nation.  How does the U.S. begin to fix this imbalance? Rather than
offering work visas and green cards to all foreign students
attaining U.S. postgraduate degrees, legislation should focus on
facilitating the immigration of top talent.  ( Norman Matloff  is a professor of computer science at the
University of California, Davis. The opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Norman Matloff at  matloff@cs.ucdavis.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 