-- Goldman Sachs CEO Blankfein Says He Plans to Stick Around
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-02-13T09:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/goldman-sachs-ceo-blankfein-says-he-ll-stick-around-for-a-while.html
Lloyd C. Blankfein , chief executive
officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  since June 2006, said he has
no plans to leave.  “The combination of this being who I am and what I do and
having absolutely no other interests makes me think this is what
I’ll be doing for a while,” Blankfein, 58, told  Stephanie Ruhle 
on Bloomberg Television yesterday from the sidelines of  Goldman
Sachs ’s technology conference in San Francisco.  Two former Goldman Sachs chiefs,  Henry Paulson  and  Robert Rubin , served as U.S. Treasury secretaries after leaving the
firm. Blankfein said that while he would “love to be wanted”
for such a role, “that seems like such a distant
hypothetical.”  Blankfein is staying at the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by
assets while some of his contemporaries and long-time colleagues
opt to retire.  Henry Cornell , a vice chairman in  Goldman Sachs ’s
merchant-banking business and one of its architects, is leaving
after almost 30 years at the company, according to a memo to
employees obtained yesterday.  Jim O’Neill , the chairman of the
asset-management division who coined the BRIC acronym for the
biggest emerging markets a decade ago, is retiring this year.  Blankfein and Goldman Sachs were criticized after the 2008
financial crisis for their role in selling mortgage-backed
securities that later lost value. The firm paid $550 million to
settle a fraud case brought by the Securities and Exchange
Commission over one deal.  “We were certainly near the scene of an accident,”
Blankfein said. “The trauma was very recent. There’s going to
be a lot of focus on us for a while.”  Blankfein said he’s trying to focus on the future even
while recognizing that crisis-related problems may linger.  “I want to spend most of my time leaning forward, trying
to finance businesses that will improve the economy,” he said.
“I’m not going to outrun the legacy issues.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  