-- Goldman Sachs CFO Sees Bank ROEs Beating 12% in Long Term
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-02-12T16:05:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/goldman-sachs-cfo-sees-bank-roes-beating-12-in-long-term.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief
Financial Officer  Harvey M. Schwartz  said the banking industry’s
average return on equity will rise above 12 percent as some
firms shrink or exit businesses.  “I think the industry will migrate to higher returns
because it will have to,” Schwartz, 48, said today at the
Credit Suisse Financial Services  Forum  in Miami. It might be a
“question of excess capacity coming out over a long period of
time,” he said.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, made
a  10.7 percent  return on average common shareholders’ equity
last year, up from 3.7 percent in 2011. Schwartz, who last month
called the 2012 figure “not particularly aspirational,” said
today that the New York-based company doesn’t yet have
sufficient information to provide investors with a ROE target.  More than half of the audience members at the conference
said in a poll that they expected average return on equity for
the industry to settle at around 12 percent, according to  Howard Chen , a Credit Suisse Group AG analyst at the event. Schwartz,
who replaced  David A. Viniar , 57, as CFO at the end of January,
said he’d be surprised if that consensus view proved accurate
over the long run.  More banks will exit capital-intensive businesses like
fixed-income trading because they’re under pressure from
shareholders to boost returns, Schwartz said.  “If you’re not in a leading position in one of those
businesses, it’s difficult to stay committed,” he said. “It’s
just a question of who executes better and who gets that
share.”  Mortgage Size  In his  presentation , Schwartz detailed Goldman Sachs’s
decision to stick with its mortgage business even after an
initial regulatory proposal in December 2011 threatened to
increase the capital requirement by 260 percent. Instead, the
firm waited, which he said paid off when regulators released a
new set of rules that raised the capital requirement by 170
percent instead.  The decision was driven in part by the importance of the
mortgage business, which has been a part of the company for
almost 30 years, Schwartz said.  “To scrap that and then potentially have to rebuild it?”
Schwartz said. “Mortgages remain a critical asset class for our
clients and obviously an important business for the firm.”  The firm has in the past de-emphasized the size and
importance of its mortgage-underwriting business, an area that
came under legal and regulatory scrutiny after the financial
crisis. Viniar said on an Oct. 19, 2010, conference call that
mortgages have “always been the smallest” of the firm’s fixed-
income, currency, and commodity businesses.  ‘Really Tiny’  “We are really tiny in the market,” Viniar told analysts
at the time. “We were an underwriter, we did it. We are a
player in the market. But we’re just not one of the leading
players.”  The unit employed 40 percent fewer employees in 2012 than
in 2008 and made 14 percent less revenue and 22 percent less in
pretax earnings, according to a slide that accompanied
Schwartz’s presentation.  Goldman Sachs  rose 1 percent to $153.76 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading at 11:03 a.m., the highest since
April 2011, amid optimism that bank profits will rise. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed  6.4 percent this year
through yesterday, and the KBW Bank Index advanced 7.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  