-- Gree Cuts Profit Forecast on New Games Delays, Overseas Sales
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-02-12T07:21:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/gree-cuts-profit-forecast-on-new-games-delays-overseas-sales.html
Gree Inc. , the social-network game
site operator headed by Japan’s youngest billionaire, cut its
annual profit forecast because of delays in adding new games and
slower-than-expected overseas sales.  The company expects net income to be from 31 billion yen
($330 million) to 37 billion yen in the year ending June 30, it
said in a statement today. It previously forecast 46 billion yen
to 52 billion yen.  Gree, run by founder  Yoshikazu Tanaka , postponed the
introduction of games including ‘Sumo’ and ‘One Piece’ to the
second half of its fiscal year after having to spend time
removing a feature from existing games that was ruled illegal.
Overseas sales also missed expectations, even as the company
targets foreign markets to offset rising competition at home.  First-half profit fell 18 percent to 18.1 billion yen,
while sales rose 7.5 percent to 77.3 billion yen. Operating
profit dropped 23 percent to 30 billion yen.  The  internet company  dropped 2.2 percent to 1,357 yen in
Tokyo trading today, before the earnings announcement. It has
gained 1.4 percent this year. The company last year agreed to
buy Pokelabo Inc. and Funzio Inc. to expand overseas.  Gree cut its full-year sales forecast to as low as 160
billion yen from a minimum of 195 billion yen. The operating
profit forecast was pared to as little as 50 billion yen from at
least 74 billion yen.  The company removed a feature from online games, known as
“complete gacha,” after Japan’s Consumer Affairs Agency said
in November that it planned to ban the practice under a law
against unjustifiable premiums and misleading representations.
The move hit other developers as well.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  