-- Guinness Nigeria CEO Says Consumer Demand Unlikely to Worsen
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-02-12T15:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/guinness-nigeria-ceo-says-consumer-demand-unlikely-to-worsen.html
Guinness Nigeria Plc , the West
African nation’s second-largest brewer, said consumer demand is
unlikely to deteriorate further in the rest of its fiscal year.  “What we have seen in the first half is still a soft
market and it’s all to do with the discretionary income of the
consumer remaining challenged,” Chief Executive Officer  Seni Adetu  told an analysts conference today. “We are not expecting
the second half worst than the first half.”  Guinness Nigeria, the local unit of the world’s biggest
distiller Diageo Plc, reported a 16 percent decline in net
income to 6.42 billion naira ($40.8 million) for the six months
ended Dec. 31, 2012. Inflation in Africa’s most populous nation
boosted raw material costs and limited consumer spending on beer
and non-alcoholic beverages.  Consumer-price inflation  stayed above 10 percent  last year
in Nigeria after the government increased the cost of fuel and
the country’s two biggest rivers overflowed their banks killing
363 people and damaging farmland.  Trade in the north of the country has suffered from unrest
stirred by the Islamist militant group Boko Haram, Adetu said.
Boko Haram has carried out gun and bomb attacks in the mainly
Muslim north and the capital, Abuja, in which hundreds have been
killed since 2009.  The company has spent about 140 million pounds on expanding
its brewing operations in Nigeria and will invest a further 80
million pounds, matching a target set in March 2011, said Adetu.  Guinness Nigeria’s  shares  climbed 0.2 percent to 296.5
naira at the 2:30 p.m. close in Lagos, the commercial capital.
The stock has risen 8 percent this year, compared with the 22
percent rise of the  Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index .  The company has spent about 140 million pounds on expanding
its brewing operations in Nigeria and will invest a further 80
million pounds, matching a target set in March 2011, said Adetu.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  