-- IAG Starts Process to Cut Iberia Jobs Ahead of Union Strike
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-12T14:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/iag-begins-process-to-cut-iberia-jobs-ahead-of-union-strike-plan.html
International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA  said it initiated the possible elimination of 3,807
jobs at Iberia as it tries to restructure the unprofitable
Spanish carrier.  “Iberia has today informed its employees, trade unions and
the Spanish employment ministry that it has started the formal
process of collective redundancy,” London-based IAG said in a
statement. A 30-day consultation process now starts, it said.  IAG Chief Executive Officer  Willie Walsh  wants to shrink
Iberia operations by 15 percent and is moving ahead with
reductions after the rejection of proposals that would have
limited job losses to 3,147. Iberia’s union has called for 15
days of strikes starting Feb. 18.  “The number is a bit higher than expected and shows Walsh
will be as aggressive in restructuring Iberia as he has to be,”
 Robin Byde , London-based analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald said.
“The strike will go forward, but so will the job cuts.”  IAG shares rose 0.3 percent to 216.80 pence at 2:50 p.m. in
London trading.  Union Agreement  “This is part of Iberia’s transformation plan to introduce
permanent structural changes across the airline to stem its
losses, enabling it to grow profitably in the future,” IAG said
today. The company was created in 2011 through a merger of
British Airways and the Spanish carrier.  Iberia said it is “keen to reach an agreement with the
unions.” The airline urged labor groups “to settle disputes at
the bargaining table rather than involving customers through
strikes that can only aggravate the airline’s loss-making
situation,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  Employees let go would reduce redundancy packages that
include 20 days of pay for each year of service capped at a
maximum of a year’s salary, an Iberia spokeswoman said. She said
the number of job losses could be reduced if unions agree on pay
cuts and productivity increases.  Walsh said in November that job losses at the Madrid-based
unit could reach 4,500 positions after third-quarter profit fell
25 percent. The final offer rejected by unions called for the
elimination of 3,147 positions with wage concessions.  IAG is seeking a 600 million-euro ($806 million) turnaround
in earnings by 2015 at Iberia, which lost 262 million euros in
the first nine months of last year. IAG reports full-year
results on Feb. 28.  Iberia said it is working on minimizing the impact of the
strikes on passengers, including through ticket refunds and
allowing changes in travel dates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  