-- Michael Vick Returns to Chip Kelly’s Eagles With Reworked Deal
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-02-12T05:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/michael-vick-returns-to-chip-kelly-s-eagles-with-reworked-deal.html
Michael Vick  will be back with the
Philadelphia Eagles next season after restructuring the six-year,
$100 million contract he signed in 2011. New coach  Chip Kelly 
said Vick will have to compete with Nick Foles for the starting
quarterback job.  “Knowing that we have Michael and Nick back at quarterback
gives us a direction in terms of what we’re going to do
offensively,” Kelly said yesterday during a news conference.  Vick’s one-year deal will be worth as much as $10 million,
according to the NFL Network, amounting to at least a $5.5
million pay cut. The Eagles didn’t announce the financial terms.  Vick, 32, passed for 2,362 yards, 12 touchdowns and 10
interceptions while playing 10 games during an injury-filled
2012 National Football League season.  The Eagles had a 3-7 record in games Vick started and the
four-time Pro Bowl selection was benched at one point in favor
of Foles, who was a rookie last season. Vick suffered a
concussion in the Eagles’ Nov. 11 game against the Dallas
Cowboys and returned to the lineup for Philadelphia’s final game,
against the New York Giants.  “In this league, you better have two, so I’m excited about
the two of them,” Kelly said. “They’re both going to compete.
And who the starting quarterback is to start the season off is
going to be won on the practice field.”  Kelly, the former head coach at the University of Oregon,
was hired to replace  Andy Reid , who was fired after the Eagles
finished the season with a 4-12 record.  Kelly ran an up-tempo offense at Oregon that may be suited
to Vick, who’s thrown 123 career touchdown passes while
averaging seven yards per rushing attempt over 10 NFL seasons.
The Ducks averaged 49.5 points a game under Kelly last season,
the second-most at college football’s top level.  “What I look at is skill set first and foremost -- what he
can do, how he can throw the football, how he can beat people
with his feet,” said Kelly. “I guess the best way I can put
this is I agree there is a change of scenery going on here.  For
Michael Vick, there is a change of scenery, but not a change of
address.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  