-- Microscopic Crystals Studied by NTSB in 787 Battery Probe
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n
-- 2013-02-12T20:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/microscopic-crystals-studied-by-ntsb-in-787-battery-probe.html
Tiny crystals that can cause
lithium-ion batteries to short-circuit and fail are among areas
under investigation in  Boeing Co.  787 fire and smoke incidents,
according to a U.S. agency conducting the probe.  “It’s definitely something we’re looking at,” Kelly
Nantel, spokeswoman for the U.S. National Transportation Safety
Board, said in an interview.  The crystals known as dendrites aren’t a central focus of
the investigation and the safety board hasn’t found evidence of
them in the battery that burned Jan. 7 aboard a Boeing 787
operated by Japan Airlines Co. that had just landed in Boston,
Nantel said. Nantel also said investigators haven’t seen
evidence of the crystals in other batteries they have examined.  Dendrites, which can impede electrical flow and cause
overheating, are a known cause of battery failure, according to
a 2010 article in the magazine Nature.  The particles are among several areas under investigation
that could have caused one of eight cells within the battery to
short-circuit and burn, igniting adjacent cells, Nantel said.  The NTSB is looking into whether a manufacturing defect,
the charging process or the battery design could have led to the
fire, NTSB Chairman  Debbie Hersman  said Feb. 7 in a news
conference.  The 787 has been grounded by the U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration since Jan. 16 after a battery aboard another of
the planes, this one operated by All Nippon Airways Co.,
smoldered and emitted smoke in Japan.  Fire, Explosion  The formation of dendrites, also known as “moss,” can
occur after rapid charging and discharging of batteries,
according to the Nature article. The formations can render
batteries “potentially unsafe and unusable owing to the risk of
fire and explosion,” it said.  They consist of lithium metal particles that form,
particularly after rapid charging, said Clare Grey, a chemistry
professor at England’s University of Cambridge who has studied
the issue.  “It is a possible mechanism to cause catastrophic
failure,” Grey said in an interview  Lithium-ion batteries were developed in the 1990s to limit
the formation of dendrites because they were so dangerous in
rechargeable lithium-metal batteries, she said.  Dendrites are difficult to detect in batteries because they
react in air and have to be examined in an environment of inert
argon gas, she said. It would be impossible to detect them in a
battery that had already burned, she said.  Test Flights  Because the phenomenon is well-known, battery manufacturers
take precautions with recharging circuitry to prevent dendrites
from forming, she said. Other issues, such as manufacturing
defects, can lead to battery fires, she said.  Transportation Secretary  Ray LaHood  today said Boeing’s
test flights on the 787, which the FAA allowed last week, were
part of the agency’s review of the plane’s safety.  “They made the case that it has to be part of the overall
review,” LaHood said, speaking to reporters at a U.S. High
Speed Rail Association meeting in Washington. “We’ve said all
along we’ve got to get this right.”  Boeing test pilots completed the first round of battery-
monitoring flights yesterday with a flight the company described
in a release as “uneventful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Levin in Washington at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  