-- LightSquared’s Ghost Raised in Fight Over Talking Cars
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-02-12T19:18:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/lightsquared-s-ghost-raised-in-fight-over-talking-cars.html
Automakers and suppliers say a U.S.
push to broaden Wi-Fi use could jam accident-prevention
technology that may cost as little as $100 per vehicle and save
thousands of lives annually.  The Federal Communications Commission next week may propose
rules to let new users into airwaves near those allocated since
1999 to developing car-to-car wireless communications. That
technology, now being road-tested in Michigan, may be the
precursor to self-driving vehicles.  A former U.S. spectrum-policy official said he sees
parallels with the conflict over bankrupt satellite provider
LightSquared Inc. The company’s proposal to build a wireless
broadband network was initially approved by the FCC, then
stymied because of evidence its signals would interfere with
global-positioning-system navigation gear.  “In a situation like LightSquared, what happened was the
FCC got out ahead of itself,” said  Gregory Rohde , a former
chief of the National Telecommunications and Information
Administration, the Commerce Department arm that oversees
federal airwaves use.  “That will continue to happen if they continue to take on
major interests that have too much at stake to lose,” Rohde
said. “That may be what happens here.”  Trade associations representing automakers including  Ford
Motor Co.  and Toyota Motor Corp., along with suppliers including
Delphi Automotive Plc, Denso Corp. and Robert Bosch GmbH, signed
a letter being sent today to FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski 
protesting his plans for the new Wi-Fi spectrum.  ‘At Risk’  Supporters of talking-cars technology, who have spent more
than a decade and hundreds of millions of dollars developing it,
say opening nearby airwaves to other users may cause
interference in an area with no margin for error.  The technology lets cars talk with each other at short
range to know when two are approaching an intersection, are
about to collide in adjacent lanes or are approaching a vehicle
up ahead too quickly. Automakers say the systems could be
installed in new cars, at a cost of about $100 a vehicle, or
sold as after-market devices.  “We’ve really worked hard,”  Scott Belcher , chief
executive officer of the Intelligent Transportation Society of
America, a Washington-based group that advocates for
transportation safety, said in an interview. “We’re finally at
the point where we’re going to see benefits. And we may put it
all at risk without knowing the answer. What we fear is a
decision gets made without the necessary due diligence.”  Spectrum Sharing  Genachowski on Jan. 9 said the agency wants to allow Wi-Fi
services in a section of airwaves that already includes similar
uses, as well as the experimental auto-industry frequencies. The
plan for Wi-Fi, an aerial Internet connection found globally in
coffee shops and offices, is part of President  Barack Obama ’s
strategy to expand airwaves sharing to cope with a shortage of
frequencies.  “As this spectrum comes on line, we expect it to relieve
congested Wi-Fi networks at major hubs like convention centers
and airports,” Genachowski said in remarks distributed by e-
mail. The FCC is to vote Feb. 20 on his proposal to form rules,
according to the meeting’s  agenda .  FCC supporters say that airwaves users must adapt and
share, by using technologies that can gather intended signals
and disregard stray transmissions.  Critical Fractions  “This is certainly very similar to what happened with
LightSquared -- where you are trying to create more opportunity
to create spectrum for broadband and GPS neighbors got very
nervous,”  Harold Feld , senior vice president of the Washington-
based policy group Public Knowledge, said in an interview.
“This is typical of what is going on right now with our effort
to repurpose the airwaves.”  The type of communication used by vehicle-to-vehicle
technology would be useless if interrupted, said Bill Brown,
radio manager for the Virginia Department of Transportation.  “The lifesaving value of the connected vehicle program is
based on the ability to immediately communicate from sensors on
vehicles to roadside and other vehicles’ devices without added
delay,” he said in an e-mail. “Fractions of seconds mean the
difference between collisions, some life-endangering, and their
successful prevention thanks to connected-vehicle wireless
communications.”  Ann Arbor  Connected-vehicle technology is being tested in Ann Arbor,
Michigan, on almost 3,000 cars, trucks and buses. The U.S.
Transportation Department has spent millions of research dollars
developing the technology in partnership with the private
sector, and auto-safety regulators may decide by the end of this
year whether to require it in new vehicles.  “There’s a great potential here to reduce not only
fatalities and injuries but also less severe crashes that can
cause a lot of congestion on the highways too,” said Michael
Cammisa, safety director for the Association of Global
Automakers, whose members include Toyota and  Honda Motor Co. ,
both members of a government-industry group developing the
technology.  “Those potential benefits might not be realized,” Cammisa
said. “We’re concerned about potential for interference if
these other devices are also using the same spectrum.”  30,000 Deaths  The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the
U.S. agency that regulates auto safety, has said that 80 percent
of crashes involving drivers who aren’t impaired could be
prevented or reduced in severity if vehicles were equipped with
these systems.  “We support efforts to identify spectrum that may be
utilized to expand Wi-Fi applications,” the auto-industry trade
groups said in today’s letter to Genachowski. “But with over
30,000 deaths on our nation’s roads every year, we also believe
it is critical that efforts to open up additional spectrum do
not come at the expense of revolutionary life-saving
technologies.”  The Transportation Department “is aware of the FCC’s
proposed action to open up” the spectrum,  Karen Aldana , a
spokeswoman for NHTSA, part of the Transportation Department,
said in an e-mail.  ‘Federal Partners’  “We look forward to working with our federal partners,
including the National Telecommunications and Information
Administration and the FCC, to evaluate the impact of spectrum
sharing on vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure
communication,” she said.  Neil Grace , an FCC spokesman, declined to comment.  Industries hungry for airwaves are watching.  “We’re thrilled the FCC is starting,” Mary Brown,
director of government affairs for Internet gear maker  Cisco
Systems Inc. , said in an interview. “It’s very important,
particularly for the Wi-Fi industry, to have access to a
contiguous block of spectrum.”  Large blocks are needed for Wi-Fi to carry high-definition
video and other uses increasingly in demand, Brown said.  Conflicts are probable whenever the FCC moves toward new
airwaves assignments, said Feld, of Public Knowledge.  “How do you evaluate whether having cars that can talk to
each other is more important than having lots of ubiquitous open
Wi-Fi?” Feld said. “The default ought to be shared, and where
it’s not shared we ought to have a good reason why we’re not
sharing it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  