-- Military Health Care Endangered by Cuts, Pentagon Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-02-12T14:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/military-health-care-endangered-by-cuts-pentagon-says.html
The Pentagon “might not have enough
funds” to pay for its health-care system under automatic
spending cuts set to take effect March 1, according to Deputy
Defense Secretary  Ashton Carter .  A funding gap for the military health-care program called
Tricare is among risks from the cuts, known as sequestration,
that Carter cited today in testimony prepared for the Senate
Armed Services Committee.  He was to testify alongside General
 Martin Dempsey , chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
representatives of the military services, and Pentagon
Comptroller  Robert Hale .  An across-the-board reduction of about $46 billion imposed
on defense programs in the final seven months of the current
fiscal year threatens “significant and damaging cuts in nearly
every budget category,” Carter said, as Pentagon officials
press Congress to craft an alternative that would avert the
automatic cuts.  “These devastating events are no longer distant
problems,” said Carter. He said “the wolf is at the door.”  Over a decade, the across-the-board cuts would strip $1.2
trillion from government programs, about half of that from
defense programs.  The Pentagon faces additional spending restrictions this
fiscal year if a stopgap spending measure that’s funding the
government through March 27 is extended. The measure freezes
Pentagon spending at fiscal 2012 levels.  Unpaid Leave  If the automatic cuts take effect, the military services
and defense agencies “will begin laying off a significant
portion of our 46,000 temporary and term employees,” Carter
said.  The services also are likely to furlough most of the
Pentagon’s 800,000 civilian employees one day a week for as long
as 22 weeks, resulting in a 20 percent pay cut, Carter said.  The unpaid leave at the Department of Defense would save at
most about $5 billion of the $46 billion needed, Carter said.  “Thus, much more cutting of DoD spending will result,
affecting many defense workers who are not direct defense
employees,” he said.  Carter offered to return 20 percent of his salary to the
Treasury Department if furloughs commence and he encouraged all
executive and legislative branch officials to do the same.  ‘A Mess’  In dollar terms, sequestration wouldn’t cut the Pentagon
that deeply, said Todd Harrison, a defense budget analyst with
the nonpartisan Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments.
It would cut “roughly 9 percent of the DoD budget, taking it
back to the level it was in 2007 when adjusted for inflation,”
he said.  The difficulty “is not the magnitude of the cuts but
rather the across-the-board manner in which they are applied,”
creating “a mess” with the Pentagon forced to furlough
civilian employees and default on certain multiyear contracts,
Harrison said in an e-mail.  “Congress could avoid much of that mess by simply giving
DoD the ability to choose how the cuts are implemented,”
Harrison said.  Readiness Hit  Dempsey told reporters traveling with him to Afghanistan
over the weekend that the automatic budget cuts this fiscal year
will fall on readiness of U.S. forces more than on major weapons
programs.  “Some of the stuff in these big procurement accounts are
already locked in for this calendar year and you just can’t
touch them,” Dempsey said. “That’s why readiness is going to
be so dramatically affected this year.”  Readiness includes training for U.S. forces and operations
and maintenance funds for war-fighting equipment.  By the end of this year, about two-thirds of the Army’s
active and reserve brigade combat teams, excluding those in
Afghanistan, “will be at reduced readiness levels,” Carter
said.  The Navy might be forced to reduce by one third the
operation of ships and aircraft in the Asia-Pacific region, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  