-- Illumina Sued Over $6.7 Billion Buyout Offer From Roche
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-02-12T17:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/illumina-sued-by-investor-over-6-7-billion-buyout-bid.html
Illumina Inc.  and nine of its board
members were sued in New York over the gene-sequencing equipment
maker’s rejection of a $6.7 billion buyout bid from  Roche
Holding AG .  Vista Capital Management SA, a Geneva-based money manager
that holds more than 300,000 shares in San Diego-based Illumina,
is seeking more than $10 million in damages and a court order to
prevent Illumina from using a so-called poison pill designed to
dilute Basel, Switzerland-based Roche’s stake in the company,
according to a copy of the complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Manhattan.  Vista accused Illumina and the directors of breach of
fiduciary duty over their “self-interested refusal to enter
into meaningful discussions or negotiations in response to
multiple offers to acquire the company made by Roche,”
according to the complaint.  Illumina rejected Roche’s $44.50-a-share hostile bid in
January 2012 as well as a sweetened, $51-a-share proposal in
March that valued the company at $6.7 billion. Roche Chairman
 Franz Humer  said last month that the deal was “definitively off
the table” and that Illumina’s price demands were
“excessive,” sending Illumina’s shares down the most in 15
months.  A Swiss newspaper, L’Agefi, reported in December that the
companies had agreed to a $66-a-share deal. Illumina asked for
$68 a share on Dec. 28 and $75 a share on Jan. 3, L’Agefi
reported on its Twitter feed on Jan. 7, without saying where it
got the information.  Shareholders’ Interest  The shares fell 0.4 percent to $50.04 as of 11:57 a.m. in
New York, giving the company a market value of $6.17 billion.
The stock has dropped 11 percent since reaching a 16-month high
on Dec. 21.  An offer of more than $65 a share would have been in the
interest of shareholders and Illumina’s board should have
disclosed it if it was made,  Lucien Selce , Vista’s chairman,
wrote in a letter to Illumina Chairman  William H. Rastetter  last
month. He asked the company to respond publicly to the question
of whether it received an informal offer. Rastetter didn’t
respond, Selce said in an e-mail.  “Illumina’s policy is not to comment on pending legal
matters,” Jennifer Temple, a spokeswoman for the company, said
in an e-mail.  Illumina Chief Executive Officer  Jay Flatley  said in
September that Roche, by making its bid public, stopped the
gene-sequencing company’s board from discussing what price would
be acceptable. Directors didn’t want to openly talk about a sale
amount after Roche’s hostile bid was made public in January
because they would have needed to disclose those discussions, he
said.  The case is Vista Capital Management SA v. Illumina Inc.,
13-cv-955, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  