-- IMF to Visit Ukraine Again in March Amid ‘Serious Challenges’
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2013-02-12T15:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/imf-to-visit-ukraine-again-in-march-amid-serious-challenges-.html
Ukraine will resume talks with the
International Monetary Fund next month over a third bailout in
four years after the lender cited “serious challenges”
following a two-week visit to the former Soviet republic.  IMF representatives will return to the capital, Kiev, in
March, the Washington-based lender said an e-mailed statement
today. While talks yielded “significant progress” toward
policies to narrow the budget and current-account deficits,
strengthen reserves and create jobs and growth, “important”
policy issues remain, said  Christopher Jarvis , the fund’s
mission chief.  Ukraine is seeking financial aid as it faces a shrinking
economy, a widening current-account gap, foreign reserves that
have dipped below three months of imports and $10 billion of
debt payments scheduled for this year. While efforts to lower
natural gas prices from Russia have so far failed, the
government has retained access to foreign debt markets, selling
$1 billion of Eurobonds last week.  “Large subsidies on gas and heating for households
continue to undermine Ukraine’s budget and its balance of
payments,” Jarvis said in the statement. Without “corrective
policies,” the economy may grow between 0 percent and 1 percent
this year, less than the government’s 3 percent forecast, he
said.  Yields Rise  The yield on Ukraine’s government dollar bonds due 2022
rose to 7.541 percent as of 5:15 p.m. in Kiev from 7.539
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. The hryvnia
declined to 8.1110 per dollar from 8.1100.  The eastern European nation wants to borrow about $15.4
billion on the same terms as its last aid package, which expired
in December. The two sides agreed on that deal in 2010 and,
while officials met demands to raise the pension age, they
refused to increase domestic heating tariffs, a condition
designed to narrow the budget gap. Disbursements were frozen in
2011 as a result.  The government may raise utility tariffs for the wealthy,
Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said last month, without providing
details. The IMF sought an across-the-board price increase of at
least 30 percent in 2011.  Last year’s budget deficit widened to 53.34 billion hryvnia
($6.6 billion), exceeding the 38.8 billion official target,
according to the Finance Ministry.  The economy contracted a preliminary 0.9 percent in the
fourth quarter from the previous three months after a 1.2
percent decline in the July-September period, confirming the
country’s second recession in four years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  