-- India Factory Output Unexpectedly Drops as Growth Ebbs: Economy
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2013-02-12T07:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/india-factory-output-unexpectedly-drops-as-growth-ebbs-economy.html
India’s industrial output
unexpectedly slid in December for a second month as demand
falters in an economy expanding at the weakest pace in a decade.  Production  at factories, utilities and mines fell 0.6
percent from a year earlier, compared with a revised 0.8 percent
drop in November, the Central Statistical Office said in a
statement in New Delhi today. The median of 29 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey was for a gain of 1 percent.  India’s elevated inflation of more than 7 percent has
limited the extent its central bank can cut interest rates to
boost demand, while an uneven global recovery has hurt exports.
Finance Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram , who unveils the budget
Feb. 28, has pledged spending curbs to ease price pressures amid
wider government efforts to encourage a revival in investment.  “This set of data is really bad and there is a need to
aggressively address risks to growth,” said  Rupa Rege Nitsure ,
an economist at Bank of Baroda in Mumbai. The report adds to the
case for a reduction in borrowing costs, though the magnitude of
cuts depends on the path of inflation, she said.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has stepped up efforts to
spur the economy since mid-September, opening industries such as
retail and aviation to more foreign investment and setting up a
panel to speed up infrastructure projects. India has also eased
caps on capital inflows and moved to limit fuel subsidies.  The rupee has risen about 2.8 percent against the dollar
since then, while remaining 8.4 percent weaker in the past year.
The currency was down 0.1 percent to 53.925 as of 12:49 p.m. in
Mumbai, while the  BSE India Sensitive Index  climbed 0.3 percent.
The yield on the 8.15 percent note maturing June 2022 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.88 percent.  Inflation Risks  Inflation, based on wholesale prices, decelerated to a
three-year low of 7.18 percent in December. Consumer prices rose
10.79 percent in January from a year earlier, a report showed
today. That’s the fastest in the BRIC group, which also includes
Brazil, Russia and China.  The climb in the cost of living and risks such as a record
current-account deficit limited India’s central bank to a
quarter-point reduction in  interest rates  last month, the first
cut since April 2012.  The current-account gap may widen to a record and be
“significantly higher” in the 12 months through March 2013
than last year’s 4.2 percent of gross domestic product, Reserve
Bank of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said yesterday.  The “external sector is very vulnerable,” inflation
remains “high” and investment has declined, he added.  Budget Vow  Chidambaram has pledged to contain the  fiscal deficit  at
5.3 percent of gross domestic product in 2012-2013 and pare it
to 4.8 percent the following year. He is seeking to lower the
odds of a credit-rating downgrade.  The statistics office’s Feb. 7 forecast for 5 percent
economic growth this fiscal year would be the weakest since
2002-2003.  The International Monetary Fund last week predicted an
acceleration to 6 percent in 2013-2014. While India’s expansion
remains one of the highest in the world, risks are on the
downside, the Washington-based lender said.  Manufacturing dropped 0.7 percent in December from a year
earlier, while  capital goods output  decreased 0.9 percent,
today’s data showed. Mining fell 4 percent while electricity
output increased 5.2 percent.  Companies such as motorcycle maker Hero MotoCorp Ltd. have
reported declining profits, while higher costs led mobile-phone
operator Bharti Airtel Ltd. to increase prices in January.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region today, Indonesia and
Sri Lanka left borrowing costs unchanged.  In Europe, year-on-year U.K. inflation probably held at 2.7
percent last month, a survey of economists showed before a
report today. Russia will probably refrain from easing borrowing
costs after inflation surged to a 15-month high, a separate
survey showed.  In the U.S., job openings likely rose in December to 3.7
million, while confidence among small businesses probably
advanced in January from an almost three-year low, Bloomberg
surveys showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Unni Krishnan  in New Delhi at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  