-- Indonesia Holds Rate as Price Pressures Reduce Easing Scope
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2013-02-12T08:44:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/indonesia-holds-key-rate-as-price-pressures-reduce-easing-scope.html
Indonesia kept its benchmark
interest rate unchanged for a 12th meeting as a depreciating
currency and inflationary pressures reduce scope for an addition
of monetary stimulus to spur a slowing economy.  Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution and his board held
the  reference rate  at a record-low 5.75 percent, the central
bank said in Jakarta today. The decision was predicted by all 17
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Southeast Asia’s largest economy is facing rising price
pressures from higher power tariffs, an increase in minimum
wages and as a weakening rupiah raises the cost of imported
goods. At the same time, the economy grew at the slowest pace in
more than two years last quarter as an export slump countered
gains in domestic consumption.  “The current rate is friendly for capital markets, bonds
and to support growth,”  Branko Windoe , head of treasury at PT
Bank Central Asia, said after the decision. “By keeping the
rate, Indonesian 10-year bonds are more attractive compared to
other countries. Indonesia remains an investment destination and
it will have a positive impact on the rupiah.”  The government’s 11 percent notes due October 2014
advanced, pushing the yield down by three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 4.40 percent as of 3:24 p.m. in Jakarta,
prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association show. That was
the biggest drop since Feb. 6.  Capital Inflows  The rupiah weakened 0.3 percent to 9,644 per dollar, after
reaching a two-month high of 9,603 yesterday, prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg show. In the past year, the currency
is the worst performer after the yen and the Indian rupee among
11 most-active Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg as the
nation’s  current account  remained in deficit.  The central bank has stepped up intervention to support the
rupiah and narrow the gap between local and overseas prices,
Hendar, executive director for monetary policy, said in a Jan.
28 interview. The central bank may take action on its benchmark
rate if the currency’s depreciation causes inflation to
accelerate, Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said last month.  Policy makers have signaled the need to boost short-term
borrowing costs to spur capital inflows. Bank Indonesia raised
the rate it pays lenders on overnight deposits in August to 4
percent from 3.75 percent.  The central bank may “gradually” increase the deposit
facility rate to help reduce volatility in the currency that may
hurt investor confidence, Sarwono said on Nov. 9.  Domestic Demand  Gross domestic product  increased 6.11 percent in the three
months through December from a year earlier, after a revised
6.16 percent gain in the third quarter, the statistics bureau
said Feb. 5. The economy grew 6.2 percent in 2012.  The economy may expand by 6.2 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier and by 6.3 percent to 6.8 percent for the
full year, buoyed by increased domestic demand and potential
spending ahead of general elections.  Bank Indonesia expects inflation to remain in a range of
3.5 percent to 5.5 percent in 2013 and 2014, it said today.
Risks to inflation include the potential for further flooding,
which could disrupt the production and distribution of food,
according to the statement  Consumer prices  climbed 4.57 percent in January from a year
earlier, after a 4.3 percent gain in December, as floods
submerged areas of Jakarta and other provinces and increased
food prices, the statistics bureau said Feb. 1.  The current account deficit, at about 2.7 percent of gross
domestic product last year, is near the government’s threshold
of 3 percent of GDP, Deputy Finance Minister Mahendra Siregar
said last week.  The current account deficit is expected to improve in the
first quarter as exports recover in line with stronger growth in
the economies of trading partners including China and the U.S.,
Bank Indonesia said in its statement. The central bank will
continue to strengthen its policy mix aimed at bringing the
current account deficit to a more sustainable level, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  