-- Emerging Telecommunication Stocks Retreat on Dividends
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-02-12T22:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/indonesian-stocks-rise-to-record-as-kospi-falls-on-nuclear-test.html
Emerging-market telecommunication
stocks fell to a seven-week low after Telekomunikacja Polska SA
cut dividends as North Korea’s nuclear test sent most
developing-nation shares lower.  Telekomunikacja Polska  plunged the most on record as the
company cut its proposed dividend, leading Poland’s WIG 20 Index
down.  Gazprom  slid for a seventh day, its longest losing streak
since August 2011, after the company said last week it sees 2012
dividend payout falling as much as 22 percent. Korea Electric
Power Corp. led the Kospi Index’s steepest retreat in a week as
the North’s official news agency confirmed the underground
atomic test.  Emerging-market telecommunication services companies lost
0.5 percent to 244.21 in New York, to lead a retreat on the  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index . The measure was little changed with 222
stocks dropping, 202 rising and 397 unchanged. The gauge has
fallen 2.2 percent from a 17-month high reached on Jan. 3 as 61
percent of member companies that have reported quarterly  profit 
missed estimates, twice the rate of the MSCI World Index of
developed nations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “One big thing that has been holding emerging markets back
is earnings,”  Alec Young , a New York-based global equity
strategist at S&P Capital IQ, said by phone. “We don’t have the
earnings momentum that we’re seeing in the developed world, and
that’s weighing a little bit on the overall picture.”  Gazprom’s Dividend  The  iShares MSCI exchange-traded fund  tracking emerging-
market shares rose 0.3 percent to $43.95. The  Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index , a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, fell 6.1 percent to 16.62.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index is trading 0.4 percent
above its level at the start of this year. The gauge trades at
10.4 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
valuation of 13.8, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Mexican IPC index fell 0.4 percent, as  Corporacion GEO
SAB  plunged 5.9 percent on its fifth day of declines. Russia’s
 Micex Index  slipped 0.3 percent and the ruble gained 0.4 percent
after Bank Rossii kept interest rates on hold. The move was
forecast by 21 of 22 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Gazprom lost 1.4 percent in Moscow. The natural-gas
exporter said last week it sees its dividend falling after
weaker natural-gas sales in all markets reduced earnings. OAO
Aeroflot, Russia’s biggest airline, declined 1 percent in Moscow
after Vedomosti reported Russia’s federal aviation authority
ordered the grounding of four of its Sukhoi Superjet-100s,
citing unidentified officials.  IMF Support  OAO Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port , Russia’s largest
Black Sea port, surged 4.8 percent for the highest close since
April 2011 in Moscow amid speculation the owners of the port’s
operator are buying the stock.  Poland’s WIG20 fell 1.1 percent, the first drop in four
days.  Telekomunikacja Polska , Poland’s largest phone company,
plunged 28 percent after cutting its proposed payout for a
second time in four months as profit and revenue slid. The
company led declines in the emerging-market index.  Hungary’s BUX Index added 0.2 percent. The country filed a
prospectus with U.S. regulators for a dollar bond sale, ending
an absence of almost two years from international issuance after
Prime Minister Viktor Orban abandoned a quest for International
Monetary Fund support.  Anti-Terrorism  The Czech Republic’s PX Index gained 0.3 percent, rising
for a third day, the longest winning streak since Dec. 19.
Telefonica Czech Republic AS fell 4.6 percent in Prague on bets
the country’s largest phone company may follow Telekomunikacja
Polska in cutting its dividend.  Turkey’s benchmark index jumped 1.1 percent as Turkiye
Garanti Bankasi AS, the Turkish bank co-owned by BBVA SA,
climbed 2.9 percent after Fitch Ratings said the nation’s
adoption of anti-terrorism financing legislation last week
reduces the risk of suspension from the OECD’s Financial Action
Task Force.  Arcelik AS  dropped 2.3 percent to the lowest level
in almost two months after reporting 2012 net income that missed
estimates.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries slipped one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 272 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Nuclear Test  South Korea’s Kospi Index fell 0.3 percent, as the
country’s national security adviser Chun Yung Woo said North
Korea carried out a nuclear test at 11:57 a.m. local time today.
The nation’s Cheil Worldwide Inc., Orion Corp. and Lotte
Confectionery Co. Ltd. were among the biggest decliners in the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index, losing at least 3.1 percent. Korea
Electric Power slid 2.6 percent.  Markets in China, Taiwan, Malaysia and Vietnam are shut for
Lunar New Year. Brazil’s market is closed for Carnival.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index , or Sensex, climbed 0.5
percent, its first advance in nine days, as some investors
judged the longest stretch of losses since Nov. 2011 as
excessive. Unitech Ltd., charged with corruption over the
allocation of Indian phone licenses in 2008, plunged 17.6
percent amid reports its chief executive discussed strategy with
the prosecutor in the case.  The Jakarta Composite Index added 1 percent in Indonesia,
where the central bank left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at a record low.  Indonesia’s “long-term prospects remain good,”  Aldo Perkasa , who helps manage about $2 billion at PT Mandiri
Manajemen Investasi, said by phone from Jakarta. North Korea’s
nuclear test should not “lead to anything major. This has
happened before in Korea. Should there be any impact, it would
only be a short-term one,” he said.  PT Perusahaan Gas Negara surged 3.8 percent in Jakarta, the
most in nine months, on speculation it may  report  foreign-
exchange gains. A weaker yen is expected to result in a foreign-
exchange gain for the company,  Hariyanto Wijaya , an analyst at
PT Mandiri Sekuritas, said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  