-- Intel Working on Internet TV Device for Debut in 2013
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-02-12T20:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/intel-working-on-tv-device-with-programming-for-debut-in-2013.html
Intel Corp. , the world’s biggest
chipmaker, is building an Internet television set-top box that
it will sell directly to consumers, aiming to create a new
market for its processors.  Erik Huggers , vice president of Intel’s digital home group,
said the device and related service, which will debut later this
year, will deliver live TV, on-demand programming and other
features. Huggers was speaking at a conference in Dana Point,
California, hosted by AllThingsD.  Intel’s set-top box will deliver a better viewing
experience than traditional cable and satellite companies, as
well as Web-connected devices from  Apple Inc. , Roku Inc. and
other manufacturers, Huggers said. The push into the media
 business  is one of Intel’s attempts to lessen its dependence on
the personal-computer market, which is predicted to decline for
a second year in 2013.  “Intel is very interested in getting into the consumer
businesses,” said Huggers, who was recruited from the British
Broadcasting Corp. two years ago. “We’ve taken a leap of faith
that the time is here.”  The box will feature a camera that can recognize users and
offer personalized programming suggestions and choices, Huggers
said. Intel has hired people from Apple,  Google Inc.  and  Netflix
Inc.  to work on the product, he said. He declined to say what
content will be available on the box when it goes on sale, or
whether the company has already signed deals with media
companies.  “We are partnering with programmers,” Huggers said. “We
are working with everyone right now.”  The Intel offering won’t necessarily free consumers from
programming bundles sold by cable and satellite service
providers, Huggers said. Intel isn’t trying to undercut such
services by offering cheaper prices, he said.  “I don’t believe the industry is ready for pure a la
carte,” Huggers said. “If bundles are done right, there is
real value in that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  