-- International Investors Increase Net Bets Against Chilean Peso
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-02-12T15:55:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/international-investors-increase-net-bets-against-chilean-peso.html
International investors in the
Chilean peso forwards market increased bets against the currency
this month after cutting them to a 16-month low on Jan. 31.  Investors based outside Chile had a net $1.6 billion bet
against the currency on Feb. 8, compared with $671 million on
Jan. 31, according to data published today by the central bank.
The peso, which has traded between 471 and 474 per dollar this
month, gained 0.1 percent to 472.05 at 12:54 p.m. in Santiago.  Investors are adding to their net bets against the Chilean
peso after Finance Minister  Felipe Larrain  wrote a Feb. 4
editorial in the Financial Times suggesting that limits on
foreign-exchange exposure for banks may help slow currency
appreciation.  Strategists at BNP Paribas SA have recommended taking a
short position in the peso versus the Mexican and Colombian
currencies, while Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA recommends
investors not add to long positions in Chile.  “There’s a feeling that we’re getting close to
intervention,” said  Alejandro Cuadrado , a currency strategist
at BBVA in New York.  Societe Generale SA on Feb. 7 recommended betting that the
peso will beat the Brazilian real. Deutsche Bank AG recommends
betting the peso beats the euro.  The positioning data, published daily by the central bank
with a two-day lag, tracks the positions of Chilean banks and
some brokers against domestic and international counterparties.
Local investors, a category that comprises pension funds and
excludes banks, increased net long peso positions by $606
million on Feb. 8 from Jan. 31.  “This started with Larrain’s comments in the FT when he
talked about not ruling out macro-prudential measures,” said
Felipe Alarcon, an economist at Banco de Credito & Inversiones
in Santiago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  