-- Investors Most Bullish on Banks Since 2007, BofA Says
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2013-02-12T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/investors-most-bullish-on-banks-since-2007-bofa-says.html
Investors are the most optimistic on
banks since the top of the bull market in 2007, bolstered by
record-low interest rates and an improving outlook for global
growth and profits, a Bank of America Corp. survey showed.  A net 6 percent of global fund managers, who together
oversee about $555 billion, said they were overweight banks, the
highest since February 2007. That’s up from 3 percent last month
and compares with a net 25 percent who were underweight the
industry a year ago. They also consider liquidity conditions to
be the most favorable since March 2011.  “Fund managers have maintained their level of optimism in
terms of risk appetite,”  John Bilton , European investment
strategist at Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch unit, said at a
press conference in London. “There is a widespread belief of
improving but below-trend growth. Just one in 10 sees the risk
of a global recession in 2013.”  The  MSCI World Index  has climbed 5.2 percent since the
start of 2013, touching a 4 1/2-year high on Feb 1., as U.S.
lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget.  Financial firms  are the
second-best performing industry group behind health-care
companies on the global equities benchmark, rallying 6.6 percent
so far this year. They surged 26 percent in 2012.  Investors maintained their holdings in global stock markets
at the highest levels since February 2011, with 51 percent
overweight the asset class, unchanged from the previous month.
They also kept their underweight position in bonds but reduced
their cash holdings to neutral, the lowest level in two years.  Asset Rotation  Almost half of respondents said they were prepared to sell
government bonds to fund the purchase of riskier equities, while
allocations in alternative investments and real estate climbed
to the highest level in almost five years.  “Investors are beginning to warm up to a gradual
recovery,” said Bilton. “They are going to increasingly
recognize that corporate bonds, like government bonds have
essential run out of yield. At the margin, you are seeing the
case for credit evaporate.”  Expectations for global growth and profits surged to the
highest levels in 24 months, according to the survey. Even so,
investors increased their holdings in so-called defensive
pharmaceutical and consumer-staples companies. They reduced
their allocation in energy and materials and cut their holdings
in technology companies to the lowest level since 2009.  Emerging markets remained the most favored region among the
global survey’s 194 respondents, followed by euro-area and U.S.
equities. Optimism toward Japanese stocks increased to 7 percent
overweight, the highest since the start of 2011.  The global survey was conducted between Feb. 1 to Feb. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  