-- Invoke Both Carter and Reagan
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2013-02-12T00:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/invoke-both-carter-and-reagan.html
Foreign policy may offer U.S.
President  Barack Obama  his best chance to strike a unifying
chord in a State of the Union address that would otherwise be
dominated by divisive domestic and economic issues.  Specifically, the president should emphasize America’s
embrace of human and democratic rights, values that transcend
parties and administrations. He would echo Jimmy Carter’s
clarion call for human rights, Ronald Reagan’s statements on the
oppression of Soviet Jews, Bill Clinton and Madeleine Albright’s
communities of democracy, and George W. Bush’s commitment to
freedom as he began his second term.  State of the Union speeches aren’t the venue for nuance.
But the president could acknowledge, with mentions of the Middle
East and the troubled Arab Spring, that U.S. values are central
to its foreign policy, even though furthering this ideal is
never easy, and success may not be near.  Even Senator  John McCain , in a grouchy mood, would applaud.  The so-called pivot to Asia and the troubled Middle East
have been the dominant themes of the Obama administration’s
foreign policy. In his speech, the president would do well to
pay tribute to Europe, a signal that even as the U.S. faces new
challenges it won’t ignore old allies and alliances.  A call for a trans-Atlantic free-trade zone would be
compelling, even if there are doubts whether Europe’s tenuous
financial condition makes that a realistic goal now.  A commitment to more aggressive promotion of global trade
pacts captures America’s can-do essence, offers a positive
economic message and appeals to more than a few Republicans.  The president is certain to pay tribute to the military, as
he should after a national election that largely avoided mention
of the tens of thousands of men and women in uniform who risk
their lives every day in Afghanistan and elsewhere. Obama should
offer a new GI Bill of Rights for veterans returning to a still
recovering economy.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own. This is one of 11 suggestions Bloomberg
View columnists made for the foreign policy section of Barack
Obama's State of the Union address. Read more  here . )  To contact the writer of this column:
Al Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 