-- Israel Environment Ministry Urges Caution on Dead Sea Pipeline
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 2013-02-12T15:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/israel-environment-ministry-urges-caution-on-dead-sea-pipeline.html
Israel’s environment chief urged
caution before accepting a World Bank recommendation for a Red
Sea to Dead Sea pipeline, saying that while the conduit may stem
the loss of water, the salty inland lake may also suffer
irrevocable damage.  “The Dead Sea is a unique, rare natural resource and a
rash decision not based on firm facts and in-depth study is
liable to completely destroy it and all tourism to the region,”
Environmental Protection Minister  Gilad Erdan  said today in an
e-mailed statement.  The recommendation on how to stop the Dead Sea from further
deterioration was the result of a study by Jordanian,
Palestinian and Israeli policymakers working under the auspices
of the World Bank to find ways to halt the drying up of a lake
whose restorative powers attracted visitors since biblical days.  The feasibility report, posted on the World Bank website
last month, said the cost of the project, including a 110-mile
(177-kilometer) pipeline, would be about $10 billion, with
potential leakage of seawater into underground aquifers one of
the biggest risks.  “Based on a weighted multi-criteria process, the pipeline
conveyance, combined with a high-level desalination plant, is
the recommended optimum solution,” the World Bank report said.  The  Environment Ministry  said the Geological Survey of
Israel has found the flow of seawater into the Dead Sea brine at
amounts stipulated in the report would lead to an outbreak of
bacteria and algae that would cause a strong stench. Gypsum
would be another byproduct of the project, it said.  Japan Comparison  Friends of Earth Middle East said the World Bank
feasibility study “failed to adequately consider the
precautionary principles when evaluating this project.” It
compared the potential decision to go ahead with the project to
Japan’s decision to build nuclear facilities ultimately damaged
by an earthquake and tsunami.  “This is an example of the underestimation of the power of
nature in an earthquake zone not dissimilar to that of the Dead
Sea area,” the Friends of Earth group said in a statement.  Gidon Bromberg, Israel director of the group, pointed to a
separate World Bank report on the Dead Sea last month that
raised alternatives to the Red Sea pipeline. Options included
desalination, water conservation reforms such as wastewater
reuse, water pricing and partial rehabilitation of the Lower
Jordan River that flows into the Dead Sea.  The  Study Alternatives Report  also recommended that the
chemical industry in Israel and Jordan be charged for their
water consumption. The report didn’t mention companies by name.
Israel’s main fertilizer maker is  Dead Sea Works , owned by
 Israel Chemicals Ltd ., and in Jordan,  Arab Potash Co .  Playing ‘God?’  The Friends of Earth group said the report on alternatives
should be studied as its proposals can stabilize the Dead Sea,
dropping at a rate of 1.5 meters (4.9 feet) a year, “without
the risk of undertaking an experiment that constitutes ‘playing
God’ by mixing two seas, leading to likely irreversible damage
to the environment and the political instability of unparalleled
public debt.”  Erdan called for a pilot project before any decisions are
taken. The Friends group and ministry commented on the World
Bank proposal ahead of consultations on the Dead Sea scheduled
in Jordan, Israel and the Palestinian territories starting later
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  