-- Israel’s Stimatix to Compete in $2 Billion Stoma Market
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-02-12T07:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/israel-s-stimatix-to-compete-in-2-billion-stoma-market.html
Stimatix GI Ltd., whose product aims
to give stoma patients control over when they defecate, is
seeking a partner to help the company compete in a $2 billion
market controlled by three companies including Denmark’s
 Coloplast A/S .  Stimatix is in talks with investment banks to help it find
a partner or a buyer this year, according to  Steve Rhodes ,
chairman and chief executive officer of The Trendlines Group, a
business incubator with about 60 companies in its portfolio
including Stimatix.  A stoma is an artificial opening in the abdomen to allow
feces out of the body after the colon or ileum are surgically
cut to combat cancer, ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease.
Stoma patients usually attach a bag to the feces exit point,
leading to involuntary excretion which may cause psychological
as well as hygienic challenges. Stimatix’s colostomy device is
working well in a 30-patient trial nearing its end, Rhodes said.  “One patient told us he can finally sleep on his
stomach,” Rhodes said in an interview at Trendlines
headquarters in Misgav, a Galilean town in northern Israel
surrounded by rolling green hills.“This could avert
embarrassing situations for patients.”  Stimatix, which has a European Union and U.S. Food and Drug
Administration clearance, would compete with Skillman, New
Jersey-based  ConvaTec Inc. , Coloplast, and Wokingham, England-
based  Hollister Ltd . The three ostomy-bag suppliers share about
90 percent of the market for 1.5 million patients worldwide,
according to Rhodes.  Stimatix Investors  With products now on the market, stoma patients now have no
control over when their bags fill up, Rhodes said. Stimatix’s
Sphincter product seals to the stoma and a patient feels when
the bowel has discharged feces, Rhodes said. Stimatix counts
Pontifax Venture Capital Fund, the fund previously chaired by
the late  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd . patriarch  Eli Hurvitz , as another investor.  Trendlines invests in about four companies a year and its
portfolio businesses have raised about $165 million to date,
according to Rhodes. The incubator also invests in agricultural
technologies and a unit also develops technologies in-house.  Trendlines reached an agreement in November for research
and development of medical devices in the areas of pain and
urology with Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania-based  Endo Health
Solutions Inc . In April, it sold PolyTouch Medical Ltd., a
developer of hernia mesh placement technologies, to Dublin-based
 Covidien Plc  for an undisclosed amount. Covidien bought two
other Israeli medical-device companies that year, including
Oridion Systems Ltd. for $346 million.  “Many of the large global companies we deal with tell me
they need to develop an Israel strategy,” Rhodes said. “They
don’t want competitors to beat them to some of the technologies
being created here.”  Another investment, urine-monitor developer  Flowsense
Medical Ltd ., said in December it reached an initial
understanding to be sold to a foreign health-care company for $7
million to $10 million. Trendlines expects as many as five deals
this year for as much as $1 billion, Rhodes said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  