-- Liverpool, Manchester United Chase Eriksen, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2013-02-12T11:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/liverpool-manchester-united-chase-eriksen-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Eriksen Available  Ajax midfielder Christian Eriksen rejected a new contract
with the Dutch club, setting up a chase between Liverpool,
Manchester United, Tottenham and Manchester City,  the Daily Mail
said.   The 20-year-old’s contract expires in 2014 and he will
probably move to develop his career, according to Ajax technical
director  Marc Overmars , the newspaper said. While Liverpool has
been linked to the player, its crowded midfield may mean Eriksen
considers other options, the Mail said.  Ireland Isolated  Aston Villa midfielder  Stephen Ireland  is training with the
team’s teenagers after a disappointing performance in the League
Cup exit to Bradford City,  the Daily Telegraph said.   Manager  Paul Lambert  signed two new midfielders last month
and now Ireland can’t make the first-team squad, the newspaper
said.  Ireland earns about 55,000 pounds ($86,000) a week after
joining from Manchester City in 2010, the Telegraph said. He has
18 months left on his contract.  Boo Who?  Chelsea interim manager  Rafael Benitez  said he doesn’t mind
if supporters boo him, and said the reaction may be helping
motivate members of the squad,  the Daily Mirror said.   Billionaire owner Roman Abramovich brought in the Spaniard
to try to shore up the team’s position in the league and the
Champions League. Benitez may be replaced at the end of the
season, with Borussia Dortmund’s  Juergen Klopp  and Everton’s
 David Moyes  candidates to take over, the Mirror said.  The 52-year-old said Chelsea’s players are enjoying his
practices and booing may give them more incentive to show the
training is improving the squad, the newspaper said.  Sam’s Replacement?  Brighton manager  Gus Poyet  may be lined up to replace West
Ham’s  Sam Allardyce  should the Hammers fail to cement a place in
the Premier League,  the Mirror said.   Allardyce’s contract ends at the end of the season, and
West Ham co-chairman David Gold said talks won’t open until West
Ham is certain to stay up, the newspaper said.  West Ham is considering Poyet as well as Watford’s
 Gianfranco Zola , the Mirror said.  Liverpool Move  Liverpool may bid for Malaga’s Manuel Iturra to beef up its
attack,  the Daily Express said.   Malaga is under pressure to cut costs and may accept an
offer of 3 million pounds for the player, who is looking to
leave, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  