-- J&J Hips Surgeon Says Failure Rate Alters View on Device
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-02-12T18:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/j-j-hips-surgeon-says-failure-rate-alters-view-on-device.html
The lead surgeon-designer for
 Johnson & Johnson ’s recalled metal-on-metal hip implants
testified that he wouldn’t have sold the device if he knew it
would have a failure rate of 20 percent or more.  Thomas Schmalzried  testified by videotape in state court in
Los Angeles late yesterday at the first of 10,000 lawsuits to go
to trial over ASR hips recalled by J&J’s DePuy unit. When J&J
recalled 93,000 hips in August 2010, it said 12 percent failed
within five years, requiring replacement, or revision, surgery.  Schmalzried, a Los Angeles surgeon, was asked about an
internal DePuy study in 2011 showing 35.8 percent failed within
4.57 years, requiring revisions. He said of 66 ASR hips he
implanted, 11 required revisions.  “If you knew it was going to fail and have to be revised
20 percent of the time within four years, would you as a
designer have recommended this product to be put on the
market?” asked Michael Kelly, an attorney for Loren Kransky,
65, who is suing over the results of his hip implant.  “I would not have put the product on the market,”
Schmalzried said. That rate of revision was “higher than some
products that were in the marketplace at the time” the ASR was
introduced in the U.S. in 2005, he said.  Prison Guard  Kransky, a retired Montana prison guard who alleges that
DePuy defectively designed the device, claims surgeons
complained for years about its failures before the recall. DePuy
failed to warn properly of the risks, he says.  J&J, the world’s  largest  seller of health-care products,
denies it designed the ASR defectively or that it contributed to
Kerensky’s health problems. J&J, based in New Brunswick, New
Jersey, says it properly warned of the risks.  Schmalzried said he got net royalties of 2 percent on most
devices sold. He said he believed he had gotten royalties of
between $2.5 million and $3 million. Kelly said he had
calculated the royalties at $3.66 million. Schmalzried said he
didn’t know the correct amount.  Another surgeon who designed the ASR, Thomas Vail, earlier
told jurors that he got slightly less than $2 million in
royalties.  The suing patients claim that the ASR left them in pain or
immobilized by joint dislocations, infections and bone
fractures. They also complain of high levels of cobalt and
chromium ions from wear on the devices, in which a metal ball
placed atop the femur rotates in a cup implanted in the hip.  FDA Study  Both the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the U.K.’s
Medicines & Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency have studied
metal-on-metal hip devices. On Jan. 17, the FDA said it didn’t
have enough scientific data to specify the concentration of
metal ions in a patient’s body or blood that would cause harmful
systemic effects.  The agency said it wasn’t recommending a specific metal-ion
level as a trigger for revision surgery.  In Schmalzried’s deposition, taken on April 11, 12 and 13,
2012 and compressed to 20 minutes for the jury, Kelly asked
about the level of metal ions that would raise concern.  Schmalzried said two parts per billion because “there is a
very low occurrence of adverse local tissue reactions, which
would include both bone and soft tissue in association with ion
levels of that magnitude.”  ‘Patient Safety’  Kelly asked: “Do you think that that is in the best
interest of patient safety, to use the two parts per billion
level as the way you use it?”  “As of today, yes,” Schmalzried said.  “A year ago, if we had had this conversation, what would
your number have been?” Kelly asked.  “It may have been more consistent with the MHRA
recommendation of 7,” Schmalzried said.  Kransky’s lawyers say his cobalt level was from 47 to 53
parts per billion before his surgery in February 2012 to replace
a hip he had implanted in December 2007.  In his opening statement on Jan. 25, J&J lawyer Alexander
Calfo said that Kransky’s metal levels were the result of his
poor health, including diabetes, strokes, cancer, cholesterol,
high blood pressure, and a history of smoking.  Kransky, Calfo said, is a vaculopath, which means he has
diseased blood vessels throughout his body. His chronic kidney
disease “impacted his ability to excrete cobalt chromium metal
ions,” Calfo told jurors.  The case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California Superior
Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Maurice Possley  in Los Angeles Superior Court
at  mauricepossley@gmail.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 