-- Jackson, K&L Gates, Seyfarth, Goodwin: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-12T12:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/jackson-lewis-k-l-gates-seyfarth-goodwin-business-of-law.html
Jackson Lewis LLP opened a Tampa,
Florida, office with four lawyers, led by Barnett Q. Brooks,
former managing partner of the Tampa office of rival  Ogletree,
Deakins, Nash, Smoak & Stewart PC . The office is the third
opened by the employment law firm in the five weeks since
 Vincent Cino  took the helm as chairman on Jan. 1.  Cino said the decision to establish a Tampa office was
driven by interest in capturing more regional work in Florida
and was a result of signing with Brooks, who he said was a good
fit with the firm.  “Once you’ve signed the right person, it’s our experience
that the clients come,” Cino said in an interview.  Tampa is the firm’s fourth Florida location and 52nd
overall. Since the start of the year, it has opened offices in
Puerto Rico and Grand Rapids, Michigan.  Cino was on the firm’s management committee and was
national director of litigation before succeeding  Patrick Vaccaro  as chairman this year. During Vaccaro’s tenure, the firm
doubled its attorney headcount to 735 layers, the firm said in a
December statement.  Cino said he expects the firm to expand by 75 to 100
lawyers this year, a pattern he anticipates will continue over
his four-year term as chairman. He attributes the firm’s growth
to a movement away from the billable hour to alternative fee
arrangements. The arrangements have driven the firm’s existing
clients to give the firm more work, particularly in the area of
employment litigation, he said.  “We’re at about 35 percent to 40 percent of our work being
paid through alternative fee arrangements,” Cino said. “It’s
picked up a great deal of momentum and now when I talk to
perspective clients, very few will now want to talk about it.”  Jay Lechner, a labor and employment lawyer with 11 years of
experience, also joined the Tampa office as partner from
Greenberg Traurig. Two additional lawyers from Ogletree Deakins
joined along with Barnett.  K&L Gates Opens Houston Office with Fulbright Hire  K&L Gates LLP opened an office in Houston, with the hire of
 Charles L. Strauss , the former head of the securities practice
group at Fulbright & Jaworski LLP  The Houston office is K&L Gates’s fourth in Texas, 25th in
the U.S. and 47th worldwide. The new office continues the firm’s
expansion, which included a recent combination with the
Australian firm Middletons and a new office in Seoul.  Strauss, a partner at Fulbright since 1991, spent more than
30 years at the firm. He advised clients on mergers,
acquisitions, divestitures, public and private offerings,
antitakeover bids, corporate restructurings and other matters.  “Charles brings tremendous transactional capabilities and
relationships in a broad range of energy and infrastructure
industries -- oil and gas exploration and production, oil and
gas service, refining and marketing, pipeline, chemical,
petrochemical, and transportation,” Elizabeth Thomas,  Michael Zanic , and Simon Salter, the leaders of K&L Gates’ energy,
infrastructure and resources practice area, said in a statement.
“Houston cements our firm’s presence across the globe in
energy, infrastructure and resources.”  K&L Gates has office in Austin, Dallas, and Fort Worth. The
firm has 47 offices in the U.S., Asia, Australia, Europe, the
Middle East and South America.  Moves  Seyfarth Hires Six in New York Real Estate Department  Seyfarth Shaw LLP hired six New York real estate attorneys,
from three laws firms.  LeClair Ryan  partner Adrian Zuckerman
leads a team that includes partner  Linda Bielik  and Cynthia
Mitchell and an of counsel attorney in joining Seyfarth. Partner
Mitchel Hill joins from Troutman Sanders LLP and partner Juan
Reyes from Reed Smith LLP, the firm said.  Prior to joining Seyfarth, Zuckerman was co-head of the
national real estate practice group for LeClair Ryan & Hill and
led the real estate investments group for Troutman Sanders.  “This is a top-flight group of veteran real estate
attorneys who are an excellent fit for us as we continue to
strategically expand our real estate department across the
country,”  Paul Mattingly , chairman of Seyfarth’s real estate
department, said in a statement. “We had a record-setting year
in 2012 and this group further illustrates our commitment to
growing what is one of the top real estate practices in the
country.”  Seyfarth’s New York office, which is one of the firm’s
largest, has almost 125 attorneys. The firm has added 21 new
attorneys to its real estate department in the past year. The
department has handled more than $15 billion in transactions in
2012, the firm said. Among those transactions, the firm
represented Australia’s Dexus Property Group in the $770 million
sale of its U.S. Central Portfolio to affiliates of Blackstone
Real Estate Partners VII, the firm said.  Seyfarth Shaw has more than 800 attorneys at 10 U.S.
offices.  Sheppard Mullin Hires Morgan Lewis Corporate Partner in China  Tony K. Mou , a former Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP Beijing
partner, has joined Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP as a
partner in the corporate practice group in the firm’s Shanghai
office.  Mou advises multinational companies operating in China on
corporate and transactional matters including mergers and
acquisitions and other matters. He also provides advice on
foreign direct investment, foreign-exchange control, employment
and international tax matters, the firm said.  Sheppard Mullin’s corporate practice group includes 150
attorneys firmwide. The firm has 20 attorneys based in the
Beijing and Shanghai offices. The firm has more than 600
attorneys in 16 offices in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Goodwin Procter Hires Travers Smith Partner in London  Goodwin Procter LLP hired Paul Lyons as a partner in the
London office. Lyons joins Goodwin from Travers Smith, where he
has been a partner in its banking practice since 2003, the firm
said.  Lyons will focus on real estate debt finance, where he has
experience in advising both borrowers and lenders. He also has
experience in leveraged finance.  Goodwin Procter has 860 lawyers at nine offices in the
U.S., Hong Kong and London.  Bankruptcy  ResCap Seeks Approval of Kruger as Chief Restructuring Officer  Residential Capital LLC asked a bankruptcy judge to approve
the appointment of a chief restructuring officer to help it
reach and confirm a reorganization plan following its assets
sale.  ResCap filed a request yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court
in Manhattan to appoint  Lewis Kruger .  Kruger has worked as a restructuring attorney for more than
40 years, ResCap said in the filing. He is a partner and co-
chairman of the financial restructuring group at  Stroock &
Stroock & Lavan LLP , according to the filing.  “He has substantial knowledge and experience advising
large companies and assisting troubled companies developing
appropriate business plans to accomplish restructuring
initiatives,” ResCap said. “The debtors believe that Mr.
Kruger’s vast restructuring experience will be invaluable in
leading plan negotiations and in the ongoing mediation.”  New York-based ResCap filed for bankruptcy in May with
plans to sell its major assets and resolve legal claims related
to mortgage loans. The company is owned by  Ally Financial Inc .,
a Detroit-based lender majority owned by U.S. taxpayers.  The case is In re Residential Capital LLC, 12-12020, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  News  AB InBev-Modelo Deal May Be Derailed by Slow-Tracking Judge  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV ’s bid to buy Grupo Modelo SAB may
face an obstacle unforeseen by the parties when the Justice
Department sued to block the deal -- assignment of the case to
Washington’s slowest federal judge.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Roberts , who was randomly
picked to handle antitrust litigation over the $20.1 billion
deal, carries the largest backlog of unfinished cases and
unresolved motions among his Washington colleagues, according to
federal court data.  Last year, Roberts had 73 motions pending for more than six
months -- almost three times more than the next slowest judge --
and more than 50 cases pending more than three years. In one
2003 case involving $190,000 of insurance payments, he took more
than eight years to rule on a motion to dismiss.  “It helps the Justice Department,” Michael Carrier, an
antitrust law professor at Rutgers University, said in an
interview. “If they have a judge that is this slow -- and
obviously this is something they could not have prepared for --
there’s no doubting this will help the government.”  Delays in the AB InBev case could derail the deal if the
litigation pushes past the termination date called for in the
sale agreement. The parties have until Dec. 30 to complete the
transaction, and may extend it another 90 days if it’s in court.
After that, Modelo may be able to walk away with the $650
million breakup fee.  Talks between AB InBev, the world’s biggest brewer, and the
Justice Department were still proceeding when the suit was filed
on Jan. 31, people familiar with the matter have said.  If the case does continue in court, Roberts must
independently assess the government’s claim that the combination
of the largest- and third-largest brewers of beer sold in the
U.S. would violate antitrust law and “substantially lessen”
competition. He will have to set a schedule that includes when
to hold a preliminary injunction hearing, how many witnesses
will be interviewed and give testimony as well as what documents
the two sides must produce and exchange.  “Case management will be important,” David Smutny, an
antitrust partner at  Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP  in
Washington, said in an interview.  The selection of Roberts could put additional pressure on
the company to settle rather than test the government’s case in
court, according to Edward Schwartz, an antitrust partner at
 Steptoe & Johnson LLP  in Washington, whose client once waited
six months for a final ruling from the judge on a settlement
with the department.  Marianne Amssoms , a spokeswoman for Leuven, Belgium-based
AB InBev, and  Gina Talamona , a Justice Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment on Roberts’s assignment to the case.  The case is U.S. v. Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, 13-cv-00127,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Dewey Settles With Holdout Group of 125 Former Partners  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP  reached a settlement with about 125
former partners removing the principal opposition to approval of
the defunct law firm’s liquidating Chapter 11 plan, which is up
for consideration at a Feb. 27 confirmation hearing.  The settlement was negotiated with the official committee
representing retired partners and an ad hoc committee of former
partners. The settlement, scheduled for approval at the Feb. 27
confirmation hearing, is supported by the official creditors’
committee and a majority of secured lenders.  The former partners taking part in the new settlement had
either retired in prior years or left the firm before it went
out of business. They were all being sued by Dewey. Among other
things, the suits sought recovery of payments made in the last
two years to retired partners under Dewey’s non-qualified
pension plan.  The former partners filed $80 million in claims and
contended they should be treated as creditors, not as
defendants. They were appealing approval of a settlement where
440 other partners will receive releases in return for $71.5
million in contributions for distribution under the plan.  In the new settlement, the former partners will waive their
claims. In return for dropping the lawsuits against them, the
former partners will pay a maximum of $5,000. Some partners may
pay somewhat more.  The newly settling partners won’t receive immunity from
claims that might be brought by third parties. The partners
agree not to oppose confirmation of the plan.  The ad hoc committee agreed to pay its own expenses
throughout the Chapter 11 case. The official partners’ committee
will limit its fee request to $1.35 million.  Under the previously approved settlement with the larger
partner group, the firm estimated that available asset proceeds
for distribution to creditors will range from $146.8 million to
$246.7 million. The midpoint recoveries for secured and
unsecured creditors are 58.4 percent and 9.1 percent,
respectively.  For details on the Dewey plan, click here for the Nov. 23
Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  The firm once had 1,300 lawyers before liquidation began
under Chapter 11 in May. At the outset of bankruptcy, there was
secured debt of about $225 million and accounts receivable of
$217.4 million, the firm previously said.  The petition listed assets of $193 million and liabilities
of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Video  Law School Applications Heading Toward 30-Year Low  Law school applications appear to be headed for a 30-year
low. Based on applications so far for 2013, experts expect there
will be about 54,000 applicants -- that’s about half the number
that applied in 2004.  Reasons for the slide have been well documented: lousy job
prospects, huge debt loads, and large tuition increases.  While there will be enough applicants to fill first-year
seats, schools below the very top tier may have to accept
students with lower LSAT and GPA scores, or trim their class
sizes to maintain quality.  A year ago, after a series of New York Times articles about
law schools, reporter David Segal said law school applicants
“don’t appreciate what debt they’re taking on ... almost none
of these law students have any idea what they’re getting into.”  Terminal Users: Click here to play video.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  