-- Jamaica Seeks Second Debt Exchange as Bank Reserves Plummet
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-02-13T00:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/jamaica-seeks-second-debt-exchange-since-2010-as-reserves-fall.html
Jamaica will restructure local debt
for the second time in three years as the Caribbean island
struggles to boost economic growth and secure a new accord with
the International Monetary Fund.  The government will ask bondholders today to exchange 860
billion ($9.1 billion) of higher interest Jamaican dollar debt
for lower yielding bonds, Finance Minister  Peter Phillips  said
in a speech last night with Prime Minister  Portia Simpson Miller . While there will be no “haircut” on the principal,
investors will face “significant sacrifices,” he said.  “Many of our bondholders, with good reason, will
immediately respond to this announcement with a sense of
disappointment as they recall they made a similar sacrifice
three years ago,” Phillips said. “It will be painful and
difficult, but we have no option.”  The drop in interest payments will enable the government
to reduce its debt to 95 percent of gross domestic product
within seven years from 140 percent today and revive growth,
Simpson Miller said. The economy shrank 0.6 percent in the third
quarter, the third consecutive contraction, while central bank
reserves tumbled to about $1 billion from a peak of $2.6 billion
in 2011, the year after Jamaica’s previous restructuring.  “We have not delivered on expectations of growth and
development,” the prime minister said. “As long as our debt as
a percentage of our economy remains this high, our capacity for
growth and development will be severely limited.”  ‘Outliers’  Standard & Poor’s cut Jamaica’s credit outlook to SD from
B-/B and expects to lower the rating to a CCC category after the
new bonds are issued.  “A high debt burden and weak external liquidity position
will constrain the new sovereign rating after the debt exchange
is completed,” S&P said in a report today.  Jamaica is one of at least five Caribbean nations to
restructure its debt since 2004. Grenada missed a Sept. 15
payment on $193 million of bonds before paying investors within
a 30-day grace period. Belize is finishing negotiations on its
second restructuring in five years, after missing a $23 million
coupon payment in August.  “Belize and Jamaica have been outliers in terms of their
very high debt burden, hence they are more prone to seek debt
service relief from time to time,”  Marcela Meirelles , Latin
America strategist at TCW Group Inc. in Los Angeles, which
oversees $128 billion of assets, said in an e-mail. “I don’t
think there is a broader problem in the Caribbean”  ‘Weak Economic Growth’  “The positive effects of the first debt exchange have been
diluted by weak economic growth and weak fiscal performance in
the intervening years,”  Carl Ross , a managing director at
Oppenheimer & Co. in New York, said in an e-mail. “The size of
the debt problem would have warranted a broad restructuring that
would include domestic and external debt, but clearly the
authorities thought the cost of that approach out-weighed the
benefits.”  The Caribbean nation swapped $7.8 billion of local bonds
for securities with longer maturities and lower interest rates
in 2010, when its debt burden exceeded 120 percent of GDP. The
accord paved the way for Moody’s Investors Service to raise
Jamaica’s credit rating and the IMF to approve a 27-month, $1.27
billion stand-by credit.  The yield on Jamaica’s local bonds due in 2019 reached a
record 9.8 percent last week. In trading today, the yield fell
31 basis points, or 0.31 percentage point, to 8.71 percent
today.  The Jamaican dollar gained 0.1 percent to 94.38 per U.S.
dollar at 5:00 p.m. local time. The currency has lost 4 percent
against the dollar in the past three months and 24 percent the
past five years, the worst performance among 20 Latin American
and Caribbean currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the
Argentine peso.  Spending Squeeze  “A successful debt exchange will require high
participation from creditors to help secure financing assurances
for a Fund-supported program,” the IMF said in a statement
following yesterday’s announcement. It didn’t give details of
its possible accord with Jamaica.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Jamaica’s dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell by 49 basis points, or
0.49 percentage point, to 622 as of 5:00 p.m., according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Diversified Index.  Fitch Ratings lower Jamaica’s credit outlook to negative on
Jan. 18 and then downgraded it today to C from B- because of the
debt exchange.  Growth in Jamaica’s $14.5 billion economy will accelerate
to 1.5 percent in 2017 from 1 percent this year, the IMF said in
an  October report , the slowest pace among 32 nations in Latin
America and the Caribbean.  “The numbers say it all: for every dollar of the budget
that we spend approximately 55 cents goes to pay the debt,
another 25 cents to pay wages which leaves just 20 cents to fix
roads, maintain schools and hospitals and provide other critical
services for the Jamaican people,” Phillips said. “It just
isn’t enough.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
 Veronica Navarro Espinosa  in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bill Faries at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 