-- Japan Margin Trade Doubles Amid Rally, Looser Regulation
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2013-02-13T07:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/japan-margin-trade-doubles-amid-rally-looser-regulation.html
Japan’s  margin trading  doubled last
month after collateral rules were eased amid the Nikkei 225
Stock Average’s longest weekly rally in a half century.  Margin trades at  Matsui Securities Co.  and the brokerage
unit of SBI Holdings Inc., the two biggest providers, jumped 2.2
times last month to 6.58 trillion yen ($70 billion) from
December as the Nikkei 225 capped a 12-week advance. The
Financial Services Agency on Jan. 1  eliminated  a three-day
waiting period on rolling collateral over into new trades.
Margin accounts allow investors to borrow to buy or sell shares.  The change, endorsed by Japan Exchange Group Inc. Chief
Executive Officer  Atsushi Saito  in July, removes unnecessary
trading restraints, the Financial Services Agency  said . To
prevent excessive speculation, the exchange  said  in November it
will be more aggressive in placing stocks on its margin-trading
watchlist and may sometimes require more collateral.  “The change is certainly positive because it will increase
volume by retail investors,” said  Takashi Aoki , a Tokyo-based
fund manager at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $38 billion. “The more liquidity there is, the better the
market will handle changes to supply and demand.”  While the securities regulator said it wasn’t acting in
order to encourage more investment, the rule change coincides
with a push to get households to move assets from cash to
equities. Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe ’s government last month
approved a 10-year plan modeled on a U.K. program to allow
people to invest as much as 1 million yen in stocks and
investment trusts each year without paying tax on returns.  Retail Investors Increasing  After a two-decade slide that’s left Japan’s benchmark
gauge 71 percent below its 1989 peak, the  Nikkei 225 ’s best
three-month run since 2009 is luring individual investors.
Retail investors made up 33 percent of equity turnover in the
final week of January, up from a weekly average of 21 percent
last year before the rally.  The Nikkei 225 climbed 32 percent since Nov. 14 as Prime
Minister Abe pushed the Bank of Japan to loosen policy. The
gauge closed on Feb. 6 at its highest level since September
2008. The benchmark’s 12-week rally through Feb. 1 was the
longest since 1959, according to Nikkei Inc.  Japan Exchange has broadened its criteria for placing
stocks on its margin trading watchlist and requiring higher
deposits becuase looser rules on collateral could “invite
market disruption,” according to Daiki Uehara, an official at
the bourse’s margin trading desk.  The balance of Japanese stock purchases on margin rose to
1.9 trillion on Feb. 8, the most since July 2011 and a 10
percent gain from a week earlier, exchange showed today. The
total has risen seven weeks running.  Long-Term Investors  Margin trades  accounted  for about 61 percent of
transactions by individuals in the week ending Feb. 1, according
to Japan Exchange data. That’s up from 55 percent for the week
ended Dec. 28 before the rules were relaxed.  “More mid- to long-term investors are opening up new
accounts, it’s not just day traders,” said  Tomoichiro Kubota ,
an analyst at Matsui Securities, where margin transactions more
than doubled last month from December to 1.46 trillion yen, the
most since February 2007. Cash trades climbed 50 percent.  At  SBI , the value of margin trades increased 2.2 times to
5.13 trillion yen in January from the previous month, according
to the broker’s website. Sony Corp., Orient Corp., Aiful Corp.
and Mazda Motor Corp. were the firm’s most traded shares on
margin, SBI spokesman  Takeru Suzuki  said.  Other changes that took effect on Jan. 1 include allowing
gains from trades to be added to collateral before  settlement
dates so that borrowers can take on more leverage.  “The revised rules are probably having an effect on
boosting trades,” said  Koji Toda , chief fund manager at Tokyo-
based Resona Bank Ltd., which oversees about $160 billion. “But
even if margin trade becomes easier, no one’s going to
participate if they can’t make money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in 東京 at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  