-- Yen Rallies on G-7 Comments as U.S., Europe Stocks Gain
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2013-02-12T21:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/japanese-shares-boost-asian-stocks-with-yen-near-3-year-low.html
The yen jumped as an official from
the Group of Seven nations said the countries are concerned
about volatility in Japan’s currency. U.S. stocks advanced as
investors dissected earnings reports and awaited President
Barack Obama’s State of the Union speech tonight.  The yen climbed 0.8 percent to 93.57 per dollar at 4 p.m.
in New York, paring a gain of as much as 1.4 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.2 percent to 1,519.43, the
highest level since November 2007 on a closing basis, and the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index closed up 0.5 percent. Spain’s 10-year
bond yield fell 10 basis points to 5.32 percent. Industrial
metals led commodities higher, while corn slid for an eighth day
in its longest slump since 2010.  Japan’s currency was higher against all 16 major peers
after the G-7 official, who requested not to be further
identified, said the group is concerned about excess moves in
the yen and investors misinterpreted an earlier statement on
exchange rates. The clarification came hours after the world’s
major industrial economies appeared to signal acceptance for a
weaker Japanese currency so long as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
government didn’t actively pursue devaluation.  “It was a vague, bland statement at first,”  Joe Manimbo ,
a market analyst at Western Union Business Solutions, a unit of
Western Union Co., said by telephone from Washington, D.C.
“When we got the subsequent clarification, it showed officials
were really concerned about the pace of yen weakness, which they
seem to see as a potential threat to global growth.”  Yen Watch  The yen has weakened 18 percent against the dollar since
its 2012 high in February amid speculation of further stimulus
measures to bolster Japan’s economy. The yen slumped against the
dollar yesterday as Haruhiko Kuroda, a possible contender for
Bank of Japan governor, said additional monetary easing could be
justified this year. U.S. Treasury Undersecretary  Lael Brainard 
said she supports Japan’s effort to end deflation after the yen
slid for four straight months through the end of January.  The yen climbed 0.5 percent to 125.79 per euro. The Dollar
Index, a gauge of the U.S. currency against six major peers,
slipped 0.3 percent to 80.06. The pound weakened against 13 of
16 major peers as U.K. inflation last month held at the highest
since May.  G-7 Confusion  G-7 finance ministers and central-bank governors said in
the earlier statement released in London, “we reaffirm that our
fiscal and monetary policies have been and will remain oriented
towards meeting our respective domestic objectives using
domestic instruments, and that we will not target exchange
rates.” They will join officials from the G-20, which includes
the G-7 and emerging markets such as Brazil, China and India, in
Moscow on Feb. 15-16.  The yen pared gains after a U.K. official said the G-7
statement on exchange rates today is not about an individual
country or currency. The official spoke on condition of
anonymity.  “Officially, the most important countries are not singling
out Japan,”  Douglas Borthwick , a managing director and head of
foreign exchange at Chapdelaine FX in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “People understand that if anyone’s going
to have their feet to the fire right now in terms of currency
weakness, it’s going to be Japan. But it’s very hard for most
countries to throw stones because they’re all living in glass
houses.”  Among U.S. stocks, Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. rallied 8.8
percent after raising its forecast in anticipation of a jump in
same-store sales. Avon Products Inc. jumped 20 percent as
adjusted profit topped analysts’ estimates.   Facebook Inc.  sank 3.2 percent as Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. cut its recommendation. Coca-Cola Co. slipped 2.7 percent
after global volume sales missed analysts’ estimates.  Earnings Season  Earnings have exceeded the average analyst estimate at
about 74 percent of the  354 companies  in the S&P 500 that
released results so far in the earnings season, and 66 percent
have beaten sales estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The S&P 500 has rallied almost 7 percent in 2013 as U.S.
lawmakers reached a budget compromise. The gauge is about 3
percent below its record reached in October 2007. The index has
more than doubled since bottoming in March 2009 as the Federal
Reserve conducted three rounds of bond-buying to lower interest
rates and boost economic growth.  Obama tonight will propose spending on infrastructure,
clean energy and education, according to an administration
official briefed on the speech. His argument, directed at
congressional Republicans amid a battle over fiscal policy, is
that fostering economic growth is the best strategy to narrow a
federal budget gap that has exceeded $1 trillion in each of the
last four years.  European Markets  Today’s gain trimmed the  Stoxx 600 ’s drop from this year’s
high on Jan. 29 to 1.1 percent. The volume of shares changing
hands in Stoxx 600 companies was 11 percent lower than the 30-
day average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Barclays Plc  climbed 8.6 percent as the U.K. bank said it
will eliminate 3,700 jobs to reduce costs after posting its
first full-year loss in more than two decades. L’Oreal SA, the
world’s largest cosmetics maker, rallied 3.8 percent as earnings
increased.  Finmeccanica SpA, Italy’s biggest defense company, plunged
7.3 percent as two people familiar with the matter said Chief
Executive Officer  Giuseppe Orsi  was arrested amid a probe of
possible bribes paid to win the sale of 12 helicopters to India.  Barclays Cuts  Spanish and Italian bonds advanced as the two nations
auctioned a total of 14 billion euros ($18.8 billion) of bills.
The yield on Spain’s two-year notes slipped 10 basis points to
2.69 percent, and the rate on similar-maturity Italian debt lost
eight basis points to 1.66 percent.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  was little changed and is
up 0.4 percent for the year. That compares with a 5.6 percent
gain in 2013 for the MSCI World Index of developed nations.
Sixty-one percent of companies in the MSCI  gauge  for emerging
markets have reported quarterly profit that missed estimates,
almost twice the rate for developed nations, Bloomberg data
show.  South Korea’s Kospi Index closed 0.3 percent lower, erasing
a 0.4 percent advance, after North Korea tested a nuclear
weapon. Poland’s WIG20 Index lost 1.1 percent as Telekomunikacja
Polska SA, the nation’s largest phone company, tumbled 28
percent after cutting its dividend proposal for the second time
in four months. India’s Sensex Index jumped 0.5 percent,
snapping an eight-day rout. Indonesia’s benchmark gauge jumped 1
percent. Markets in China, Taiwan, Malaysia and Vietnam are shut
for Lunar New Year.  Nickel and lead added more than 1 percent for the biggest
gains in the S&P GSCI Index of commodities, while sugar, wheat
and cotton retreated. Oil rose 0.5 percent to $97.51 per barrel
in New York.  Corn dropped 0.9 percent for an eighth-straight decline in
Chicago, capping the longest losing streak since March 2010, as
prospects improved for crops in South America. Soybeans slumped
into a bear market. Corn and soybean growing areas in Argentina
may receive moderate to heavy rainfall from storms beginning
Feb. 16, easing dry conditions, DTN said today in a forecast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  