-- Job Openings Decrease Amid U.S. Budget Battles: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2013-02-12T21:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/job-openings-in-the-u-s-decreased-in-december.html
Job openings in the U.S. dropped in
December from a four-year high, a sign employers put expansion
plans on hold as lawmakers wrangled over tax and spending
programs.  The number of  positions  waiting to be filled fell by
173,000 to 3.62 million, the fewest since September, from a
revised 3.79 million the prior month that was the most since May
2008, the Labor Department said today in a statement. The pace
of hiring cooled, and firings were the lowest on record.  The threat of tax increases and government spending cuts
that constituted the so-called fiscal cliff raised concern the
economy would stumble at the end of 2012. Further progress may
continue to be delayed early this year as Congress debates how
much to reduce federal outlays.  “The labor market is improving, but certainly not at a
robust rate,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at
Ameriprise Financial Inc. in Detroit. Price is the best
forecaster of payroll growth in the past two years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. “We’re still going to see that
relatively modest pace of advancement in the first part of 2013
as businesses wait to see how the adjustments with payroll taxes
and spending cuts affect the economy.”  Stocks advanced, sending benchmark indexes to five-year
highs, as earnings topped estimates and investors awaited
President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to 1,519.43 at the
close in New York.  Obama Speech  Obama speaks tonight amid fresh concerns about the economy,
which shrank at a 0.1 percent annual rate in the last three
months of 2012 after expanding at a 3.1 percent pace in the
previous three months, according to Commerce Department figures
issued last month. The jobless rate was 7.9 percent in January,
little changed from the 7.8 percent when he took office in
January 2009.  Parts of the global economy are also struggling. India’s
industrial output unexpectedly dropped in December for a second
month as demand faltered in an economy expanding at the weakest
pace in a decade, other figures showed today.  Today’s U.S. job openings report helps illuminate the
dynamics underlying the government’s monthly employment figures.
Payrolls increased by a revised 196,000 workers in December and
247,000 the month before, the Labor Department said Feb. 1.
Revisions added a total of 127,000 jobs to the count in the last
two months of 2012.  Employment then slowed at the start of this year, with
payrolls rising by 157,000 last month.  Openings Breakdown  Six of seven major industry categories showed a drop in job
openings in December, led by professional and business services,
which had a 92,000 decrease in jobs available. Trade and
transportation followed as retailers sought less help.  Construction was the only category to show an increase,
with job openings rising by 3,000 to 92,000.  The number of workers hired in December dropped to 4.19
million, the fewest in a year, from 4.4 million, pushing the
hiring rate down to 3.1 percent from 3.3 percent, according to
today’s report.  A possible slowdown in  consumer spending  and government
cutbacks threaten to impede further progress in the labor
market. Payroll growth in January was the weakest in four
months, and households this year will see their paychecks
reduced by higher payroll taxes while Congress debates whether
to slow the growth of federal outlays.  Payroll Tax  At the start of the year, Congress allowed the payroll tax
that funds Social Security benefits to revert to 6.2 percent
from 4.2 percent and boosted the levy on top income earners,
which may weigh on consumer spending.  Lawmakers now have until the end of the month to come up
with a way to avert $1.2 trillion in across-the-board spending
cuts, known as sequestration, set to take effect on March 1. The
Obama administration has begun a public campaign to head off the
cuts, which White House officials said will limit education
outlays, small business loans, food safety inspections and
defense.  Total separations, which include firings and those who
leave their jobs voluntarily, decreased to 4.07 million in
December from 4.22 million, according to today’s Labor
Department report. That drove the separations rate down to 3
percent from 3.2 percent in November.  The number of people fired fell to 1.57 million, the least
since monthly records began in December 2000.  Fewer Quits  Also included in total separations were 2.16 million people
who quit their jobs in December, down from 2.18 million in the
prior month.  In the 12 months ended in December, the economy created a
net 1.8 million jobs, representing 51.8 million hires and about
50 million separations, today’s report showed.  Home Depot Inc. , the largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, is among companies stepping up hiring. The largest
U.S. home-improvement retailer said it plans to add more than
80,000 temporary workers ahead of its busiest season, about 14
percent more than a year ago, as a housing rebound spurs
spending on remodeling and landscaping. Rival Lowe’s Cos. is
boosting seasonal hiring by 13 percent.  Considering the 12.2 million Americans who were  unemployed 
in December, the figures indicate there were about 3.4 people
vying for every opening, up from about 1.8 when the recession
began in December 2007.  Jobless Rate  Job generation in 2012 was strong enough to bring the U.S.
unemployment rate down 0.7 percentage point to a four-year low
of 7.8 percent in December. Employment picked up in the last
three months of the year, when payrolls expanded by 603,000
workers.  Fed officials are waiting until the outlook improves before
they tighten monetary policy. The central bank’s Federal Open
Market Committee said in December it would hold its benchmark
lending rate near zero as long as inflation isn’t forecast to
rise more than 2.5 percent in one to two years and unemployment
remains above 6.5 percent.  “With employment so far from its maximum level and with
inflation currently running, and expected to continue to run, at
or below the Committee’s 2 percent longer-term objective, it is
entirely appropriate for progress in attaining maximum
employment to take center stage in determining the committee’s
policy stance,” Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said yesterday
during a speech in Washington.  Yellen also said she believes high unemployment is the
result of too little demand rather than a mismatch of workers’
skills with the needs of employers. The economy faces hurdles
including low income expectations by households and fiscal
restraint, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Kowalski  in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  