-- Judge Rejects Plea Deal in Baseball Card Tampering Case
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-12T22:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/judge-rejects-plea-deal-in-baseball-card-tampering-case.html
A sports memorabilia auctioneer’s
attempt to plead guilty in a case in which he’s accused of
defrauding bidders and tampering with the condition of a rare
 Honus Wagner  baseball card was rejected by a U.S. judge.  U.S. District Judge  Ronald A. Guzman  in Chicago today told
lawyers for both sides he needed more information before
approving an agreement that includes a maximum punishment of
30 months in prison and a $250,000 fine and doesn’t require
auctioneer  William Mastro  to cooperate in the prosecution of
three co-defendants in a case where he faces a top term of
20 years.  “What does the government get out of this?” Guzman asked
Assistant U.S. Attorney Nancy DePodesta.  Mastro, the former principal of Mastro Auctions, was
charged with one count of mail fraud when he and three other men
were indicted by a grand jury in July.  Mastro was accused of concealing his trimming the sides of
a series T-206 card of Wagner, a Hall of Fame shortstop for
Major League Baseball’s Pittsburgh Pirates, to bolster its
apparent value.  “Mastro represented that Mastro Auctions had sold the most
expensive baseball card in the world,” in company promotional
materials, according to the indictment.  Mastro pleaded not guilty on July 31. Each of his co-
defendants also pleaded not guilty.  A resident of Palos Park, Illinois, Mastro owned the
auction business until 2004 and was its chairman and chief
executive officer from 1996 to February 2009, prosecutors said.  Rare Items  Other items that Mastro and former Chief Operating Officer
 Doug Allen  are accused of auctioning while knowing their
authenticity was disputed were hair from  Elvis Presley  and a
purported 1869 Cincinnati Red Stockings trophy baseball,
according to indictment.  The judge questioned disparities between each side’s
estimate of the amount of loss represented by the alleged
wrongdoing. The proposed plea agreement wasn’t made public.  Defense lawyer  Michael Monico  told Guzman the difficulty
arose from the shifting values of some of the items sold and the
uniqueness of the case.  “I think this is the first case of its kind ever in the
United States,” Monico said.  The Wagner card is “the Holy Grail of our hobby,” Bill
Goodwin, president of St. Louis-based auctioneer Goodwin & Co.,
said in a July telephone interview. His firm sold one for $1.23
million in April.  Tobacco Taint  According to legend, Goodwin said, Wagner opposed having
his image included with tobacco products, which is how the cards
were circulated at the time.  The card was pulled from production, accounting for its
scarcity. About 45 to 65 are believed to exist in varying
degrees of preservation, according to Goodwin.  Prosecutors sought a sentence of as long as 6 1/2 years,
DePodesta said. She said the terms were the product of
negotiations she could not make public.  “What I’m buying here is a pig in a poke,” Guzman said,
citing the absence of a presentence report. “I need more.”  He postponed the hearing until March 19. Afterward, Monico
declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Mastro, 12-cr-567, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 