-- Juventus Beats Celtic, PSG Tops Valencia in Champions League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-13T00:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/juventus-psg-win-champions-league-round-of-16-openers-correct-.html
Juventus defeated Celtic 3-0 with
early and late goals, and Paris Saint-Germain also won away at
Valencia to open the round of 16 in soccer’s Champions League.  Alessandro Matri,  Claudio Marchisio  and  Mirko Vucinic 
scored in Glasgow last night for Juventus, which had about half
as many shots as its Scottish host. Ezequeil Lavezzi and Javier
Pastore got PSG’s goals in the 2-1 win in Spain, though the
French team’s top scorer,  Zlatan Ibrahimovic , was red-carded in
the closing seconds and will miss the return match.  Juventus and PSG host the second legs of the two-game
series March 6 as they seek to advance to the quarterfinals of
Europe’s elite club competition.  “We need a miracle,” Celtic manager  Neil Lennon  told ITV.
“But it’s the harsh reality of Champions League football, and
some of my young players will learn a huge lesson.”  Record nine-time European champion Real Madrid hosts
Manchester United tonight in  Cristiano Ronaldo ’s first match
against his former club, and Borussia Dortmund travels to
Shakhtar Donetsk.  Juventus, outshot 17-9 at Celtic Park, was able to extend
its unbeaten run in European away matches to nine games. The
loss matched Celtic’s biggest home defeat in Europe, after a 3-0
loss to PSG in the 1995 Cup Winners’ Cup.  Matri quieted the raucous crowd in the third minute as he
muscled past Efe Ambrose and poked the ball through the legs of
onrushing goalkeeper Fraser Forster. The ball went over the line
before being cleared by Kelvin Wilson, with Marchisio firing the
rebound in to be sure.  Celtic Response  Celtic immediately responded as Kris Commons and Charlie
Mulgrew forced saves from goalkeeper  Gianluigi Buffon . Commons
then put an overhead kick wide and Victor Wanyama headed a
corner over as the home side pressured leading up to halftime.  Celtic continued to control play after the break as Mulgrew
sent a cross that an unmarked Wanyama headed straight down to
the ground and into the arms of Buffon. Scott Brown then had an
effort blocked by defender  Andrea Barzagli , who blocked another
shot from Wilson moments later.  Juventus doubled its lead in the 77th minute. Matri flicked
a pass into the area for Marchisio, who cut back toward the
middle and sent a shot that Forster touched and couldn’t keep
out.  Vucinic then clinched the victory six minutes later when he
shot past Forster after taking a pass from Marchisio, who stole
the ball from Ambrose. Two-time European champion Juventus last
reached the quarterfinals in 2006.  ‘Not Done’  “It is a very important victory, it is not done yet but it
is a great result in a difficult stadium,” Marchisio told
UEFA’s website. “We will have to play with great determination
as we did tonight in the return leg because in football anything
can happen.”  PSG, which controlled only 37 percent of possession at the
Mestella Stadium, got two first-half goals for the victory. Adil
Rami scored in the 90th minute for Valencia before Ibrahimovic
received his stoppage-time red card.  “The goal we conceded at the end leaves everything open,”
PSG Sporting Director Leonardo told UEFA’s website. “We will be
missing Zlatan Ibrahimovic for the second leg, so we will see
what happens.”  PSG went in front after 10 minutes as Lavezzi took a pass
from Pastore just outside the area, went between two defenders
and beat goalkeeper Vicente Guaita.  The lead doubled just before halftime as  Lucas Moura  made a
run down the right side, cut back toward the middle and laid off
a pass for Pastore, who beat Guaita with a low shot.  After Rami scored for Valencia, Swedish striker Ibrahimovic
was sent off for a challenge on Andres Guardado.  “I thought it was a normal tackle, nothing special,” PSG
coach  Carlo Ancelotti  said in a televised interview. “I thought
it wasn’t a red card.”  PSG midfielder Marco Verratti will also miss the next
Champions League match after picking up his third yellow card of
the campaign.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 