-- KKR Entering Outlet Business With $131.5 Million Purchase
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2013-02-12T18:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/kkr-entering-outlet-business-with-131-5-million-purchase.html
KKR & Co. is entering the outlet-
center business with an agreement to buy Legends Outlets Kansas
City for $131.5 million, gaining a retail property in a popular
tourism district for less than replacement cost.  The investment firm was the winning bidder at a Jan. 25
foreclosure auction in Kansas City, Kansas, according to U.S.
District Court records. The other bidders were  Tanger Factory
Outlet Centers Inc. ,  Macerich Co. , DRA Advisors LLC and outlet
developer Craig Realty Group.  Legends Outlets has 1.1 million square feet (102,000 square
meters) of retail space and a 14-screen movie theater, according
to the Kansas City Convention & Visitors Association website.
Opened in 2006, it’s part of the Village West development that
includes the Kansas Speedway. The tourism district that it’s in
draws more than 12 million visitors a year, according to the
website.  KKR is betting that the outlet center will draw shoppers
because it’s near such attractions as the auto racetrack, a
major-league soccer stadium and a minor-league baseball field,
said  Ralph Rosenberg , head of real estate at KKR. Legends is
located next to a Nebraska Furniture Mart store that has annual
sales of more than $400 million and attracts between 2 million
and 5 million visitors a year, according to Katie Rager, a
spokeswoman for the furniture chain, owned by Warren Buffett’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc.   “Kansas City has created a destination area,” Rosenberg
said in an interview. “There are high barriers to entry with
similar projects.”  Premium Outlets  Karen Maurer, a spokeswoman for Santa Monica, California-
based Macerich, declined to comment. Quentin Pell, a spokesman
for Greensboro, North Carolina-based Tanger, said he wasn’t
aware of efforts by the company to buy Legends Outlets. Craig
and  David Luski , chief executive officer of New York-based DRA,
didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Premium outlets, which include more red-carpet designers
than conventional outlet centers, have grown by exploiting
consumers’ desire for brand-name fashion and household goods
while helping retailers boost sales and pay lower rents.  “The consumer mentality has shifted since the recession to
be substantially more value-focused and the outlets respond to
that demand,” said  Cedrik Lachance , a managing director and
head of retail research at Green Street Advisors Inc., a Newport
Beach, California-based property-research firm. “The outlet
business is one of the best real estate businesses.”  The Legends stores have average sales of about $400 per
square foot, Rosenberg said. By comparison, Tanger’s average
sales per square foot in the third quarter, the latest period
for which figures are available, was $381, the company said in
October.  ‘Double That’  KKR and its partner RED Legacy, led by a co-founder of the
property’s developer, plan to invest $40 million of their own
cash and borrow the rest of the $131.5 million purchase price,
Rosenberg said.  “It would cost double that to build today,” he said.  KKR intends to bring in more designer apparel outlet
stores, add kiosk vendors and spend more money on advertising to
increase sales, Rosenberg said. Current tenants include factory
stores from Nike Inc., Ralph Lauren Corp. and Saks Inc. The
largest tenant is a Dave & Buster’s Inc. restaurant.  Built by Phoenix-based RED Development as The Legends of
Village West, the open-air center was decorated with tributes to
famous Kansans such as President  Dwight Eisenhower . RED sold the
property in 2007 to a Morgan Stanley group for about $215
million. The property was collateral for a $137 million loan
that was bundled into bonds and sold by Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. After the financial crisis hit, the so-called lifestyle
center was converted into an outlet center.  Retail Vacancies  The Legends complex has a vacancy rate of about 5 percent,
Rosenberg said. The Kansas City metropolitan area had a retail
vacancy rate of 9 percent in the fourth quarter and the national
rate was 6.8 percent, according to Washington-based research
company  CoStar Group Inc.   KKR’s purchase is scheduled for completion on March 14,
Rosenberg said. The firm will own 95 percent of the center and
RED Legacy will operate it and own the rest, he said.  Legends would be the seventh deal for KKR’s real estate
unit since Rosenberg joined as the firm’s first head of real
estate in March 2011. Six of the deals have been in the U.S. and
one in Europe. They include a residential development in
Williston, North Dakota. When the Legends deal is completed, KKR
will have committed about $400 million of equity since
Rosenberg’s arrival.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  