-- Nasdaq Talks With Carlyle Signal Exchange Takeovers Not Over
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p ,   L e s l i e   P i c k e r   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2013-02-12T21:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/nasdaq-talks-with-carlyle-signal-exchange-takeovers-not-over-yet.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s  talks with
Carlyle Group LP about taking the company private are spurring
speculation among investors and analysts that a $50 billion wave
of attempted exchange deals in the past three years isn’t over.  The discussions between Nasdaq, the second-largest owner of
U.S. exchanges, and Carlyle broke down over price, according to
a person with direct knowledge of the matter. The company trades
at the  second-cheapest  multiple relative to earnings among 25
exchanges after U.S. equity trading volume dropped for a third
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Exchange companies have been the subject of takeover bids
amid shrinking profits for securities trading, leading to
IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s offer for the NYSE Euronext last
month and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd.’s purchase of
the London Metal Exchange. Nasdaq Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld  has been re-organizing business units and reducing
expenses after the company’s U.S. cash equity trading revenue
fell 21 percent last year.  “You can see the momentum building up again,”  Sang Lee ,
managing partner at Aite Group LLC in Boston, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s about firms trying to diversify
their revenue and firms trying to expand their global footprint.
It’s tough for a public company to set out long-term goals and
try to meet those goals without getting hammered every
quarter.”  Share Gains  Nasdaq shares rose 3.1 percent to a four-year high
yesterday, and advanced 0.6 percent to $30.55 today. The shares
have soared 22 percent this year. NYSE Euronext is up 52 percent
since announcing its deal with IntercontinentalExchange in
December. The Bloomberg World Exchanges Index has rallied 11
percent this year, compared with a 6.5 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The talks were initiated by Carlyle Chief Financial Officer
 Adena Friedman , who left Nasdaq in 2011 as chief financial
officer and head of corporate strategy, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the meetings were private.  Rob Madden , a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, declined to
comment, saying the company doesn’t speak about “rumors or
speculation.” Carlyle’s spokesman  Randy Whitestone  also
declined to comment.  “Carlyle was looking for an opportunity to make money and
Nasdaq wanted to boost their valuation,”  Matthew Heinz , a St.
Louis, Missouri-based exchange analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
said in a telephone interview. He recommends buying the shares.
“They’ve been frustrated with their valuation for a long
time.”  Stock Valuation  Nasdaq has been  trading  at an average 10.6 times reported
earnings since 2009, compared with 18.8 for the Bloomberg World
Exchanges Index. Nasdaq’s multiple was at 12.2 yesterday, the
second-lowest of the 25-member index, behind London Stock
Exchange Group Plc’s 6.5, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Nasdaq had a 21 percent decline in full-year net U.S. cash
equity trading revenue to $122 million last year, the company
said on Jan. 31. NYSE, the biggest operator of U.S. exchange,
said its cash trading and listings net revenue showed a 12
percent drop over the same period.  Average daily volume for stocks listed on U.S. exchanges
has declined every year since 2009, falling 18 percent in 2012
to a low of 6.42 billion shares, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 9.77 billion in 2009 and 6.36
billion so far in 2013.  NYSE Euronext announced in December it agreed to be bought
by IntercontinentalExchange in an $8.2 billion cash and stock
deal, set to close later this year. The company chose the deal
with the 12-year-old energy and commodity futures bourse over an
offer from  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. in November.  Deals Blocked  When NYSE was planning to merge with Deutsche Boerse AG in
Frankfurt in 2011,  Nasdaq  and IntercontinentalExchange made a
joint hostile bid for the U.S. exchange in an attempt to derail
the deal. The Deutsche Boerse deal was rejected by European
competition authorities in February 2012, while the Nasdaq-
IntercontinentalExchange bid was blocked in the U.S. on concern
the combination would dominate American stock listings.  Changing from a public company to a closely-held firm may
also be awkward for an exchange operator such as Nasdaq,
according to  Jillian Miller , an Atlanta-based exchange analyst
at BMO Capital Markets.  “Taking an exchange business private is a bit tricky
because as a listing venue Nasdaq is in the business of
promoting the IPO process,” Miller , who rates the shares at
market perform, wrote in an e-mail yesterday. “It might send an
odd message to Nasdaq-listed companies.”  Company History  Nasdaq began trading 2,500 over-the-counter securities as
the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
Quotations in 1971, according to the company’s  website . It has
been the favored venue for the biggest U.S. technology
companies, listing Google Inc., Intel Corp. and  Apple Inc.  and
more recently Facebook Inc. last year.  Nasdaq’s own shares debuted in 2002. The exchange is
expanding into derivatives, setting up a new London-based market
and buying a 25 percent stake in a Dutch alternative trading
system focused on stocks and equity derivatives.  “Why Nasdaq sells is because it creates shareholder
value,”  Rich Repetto , an exchange analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP in New York, said in a phone interview. “If they
could sell it at $35 or $40, I think they’d be pretty happy,”
he said. “If they can sell and create more value than what they
think they can by just operating organically, then it’s the
board’s duty to look at those options.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  