-- Netflix Signs Deal With DreamWorks Animation for Kids’ Show
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2013-02-12T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/netflix-signs-deal-with-dreamworks-animation-for-kids-show.html
Netflix Inc. , the world’s largest
video-streaming service, signed a deal with  DreamWorks Animation
SKG Inc.  to create its first original television series aimed
specifically at children.  The series, “Turbo: F.A.S.T,” will follow the adventures
of a snail that becomes super-speedy after a freak accident, the
companies said today in a joint statement. The 26 episodes will
be available to Netflix’s 33 million streaming customers
starting in December, following DreamWorks’ theatrical release
of a “Turbo” film in July.  “Netflix boasts one of the largest and fastest-growing
audiences in kids’ television,” DreamWorks Animation Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Katzenberg  said in the statement.
“They pioneered a new model for TV dramas with ‘House of
Cards,’ and now together, we’re doing the same thing with kids’
programming.”  Netflix CEO  Reed Hastings  is making big financial bets to
secure Netflix’s future as the dominant streaming-video service
as more viewers move online. He says efforts like “House of
Cards” and the revived Fox comedy “Arrested Development”
cement relationships in Hollywood and help fend off competitors
including  Amazon.com Inc.   Amazon, the Seattle-based online retailer, announced last
month that it had ordered five pilots for original children’s
shows. After they’re completed, viewers will be invited to vote
to determine which one is made into a full-length series to run
on Amazon’s streaming services in the U.S., U.K. and Germany,
the company said in a statement.  Earlier Deal  Netflix’s deal with DreamWorks expands on an existing
agreement signed in 2011 to offer kids’ films such as “Kung Fu
Panda” and “How to Train Your Dragon” beginning this year.
Other original series scheduled for streaming release this year
include one by “Weeds” creator Jenji Kohan called “Orange Is
the New Black,” the thriller “Hemlock Grove” and comedian
 Ricky Gervais ’s “Derek,” slated for summer.  With films and TV shows geared to children and families,
Los Gatos, California-based Netflix has been attempting to build
a subscriber base that’s less likely to cancel for competing
offerings,  Scott Devitt , an analyst with Morgan Stanley, wrote
in a research note in December.  The announcement came a day after Starz, the premium cable-
TV channel spun off last month by  John Malone ’s Liberty Media
Corp., extended a contract with Sony Pictures Entertainment for
first-run movie rights through 2021.  Netflix, which had been seeking the Sony rights, declined
to comment on whether it was outbid for the films. The multiyear
deal it announced in December with Walt Disney Co. to stream new
releases, including titles from “Star Wars” creator Lucasfilm,
Pixar and Marvel studios, was more important, Chief Content
Officer  Ted Sarandos  said yesterday in an interview.  Netflix fell 1.7 percent to $177.89 yesterday in New York
trading. Glendale, California-based DreamWorks fell 0.9 percent
to $16.16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in San Francisco at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  