-- N.Y. May Issue Fracking Permits Without Final Regulations
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-02-12T22:24:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/new-york-may-issue-fracking-permits-without-final-regulations.html
New York  said it will begin issuing
fracking permits before creating regulations if the state Health
Department says the natural-gas drilling technique is safe.  The decision announced today by Environmental Conservation
Commissioner  Joseph Martens  may enable the state to grant
hydraulic-fracturing permits within weeks, rather than months.  New York has been studying whether to allow fracking in the
Marcellus Shale formation for more than four years. Martens’s
decision marks a policy shift that may let the state expedite
drilling by circumventing a lengthy rule-making process. The
commissioner said he’ll do that if the Health Department gives
assurances on safety issues.  “The science, not emotion, will determine the outcome,”
Martens said in an e-mail statement.  Fracking, a process in which a mixture of water and
chemicals is injected into shale to free trapped gas, poses a
dilemma for Governor  Andrew Cuomo . The 55-year-old Democrat must
balance the prospect of the type of economic development seen in
Ohio and Pennsylvania against calls from environmental groups
that say drilling will damage drinking water supplies and make
farmland unusable.  ‘Fierce Opposition’  The state can move forward with issuing permits as soon as
an environmental review is complete, and that hinges on the
Health Department’s determination, Martens said. Recommendations
from the environmental review would be enforced through the
permit process, he said.  If the state issues permits without formal rules, it “will
be met with fierce opposition,” Roger Downs, conservation
director for the Sierra Club Atlantic Chapter, said in an e-
mailed statement.  “We trust that the DEC will take this opportunity to re-
evaluate the legality of using an environmental-review process
as a de facto regulatory program,” Downs said.  The continuing health analysis will cause the state to miss
a Feb. 27 deadline for formal regulations and reopen a 90-day
public review, Martens and Health Commissioner  Nirav Shah  said
in statements e-mailed today.  “Given the DEC commissioner’s assurances that this delay
will not mean delays for issuing permits, we respect the
administration’s need to finish this last study and finally come
to a resolution,” Karen Moreau, executive director of the New
York State Petroleum Council, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We also know that it can and must end with a decision to move
forward with creating jobs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany  at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  