-- New EU Budget Is a Missed Opportunity to Focus on Growth
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-12T14:22:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/new-eu-budget-is-a-missed-opportunity-to-focus-on-growth.html
The seven-year  budget plan  announced
by the European Union’s governments last week came as a
diplomatic win for U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , for which
he has been showered with praise at home. As that surprise wears
off, the deal serves mainly as a depressing reminder of the EU’s
skewed priorities.  EU leaders agreed to cap spending commitments at 960
billion euros ($1.3 trillion) from 2014 to 2020. That’s a cut
from the previous seven-year budget, to 1 percent of the EU’s
economic output from 1.12 percent -- the first reduction in the
bloc’s history. It is also peanuts. Europe’s national
governments typically spend 40 to 50 times more as a share of
their respective economies.  Reducing the fiscal impact further is the EU’s lack of
budget deficits or surpluses: Revenue always matches spending.  Governments worked on the deal for 18 months and needed a
25-hour closing session to wrap things up. The European
Parliament now has to approve the budget and is sounding
mutinous. Don’t let the theatrics mislead you, though: The
macroeconomic implications are virtually zero.  Much more was at stake in diplomatic and symbolic terms.
Cameron recently stirred complaints in Europe by calling for
structural changes to the EU that would protect the U.K. from
unwanted political integration, and allow it to renege on
existing EU rules that it doesn’t like. He threatened the U.K.’s
withdrawal from the union if he doesn’t get what he needs.
Critics at home and abroad said this stance would cost the U.K.
influence, and that Cameron had made himself irrelevant in EU
policy making.  Successful Alliance  Not so -- or at least, not so long as Germany’s austerity
chancellor,  Angela Merkel , happens to want the same outcome as
Cameron. The U.K. formed a successful alliance with Germany and
other northern European countries in arguing that the EU’s
budget shouldn’t grow when national budgets were being cut. The
agreed figure was more than Cameron or Merkel had called for,
but was still a reduction of more than 3 percent in inflation-
adjusted terms, and significantly less than the 5 percent
increase that the European Commission first  proposed . Cameron
also preserved the hallowed  rebate  of British contributions to
EU revenue, a concession negotiated by  Margaret Thatcher  in
1984.  In this case, obstinacy didn’t weaken the U.K.’s hand. The
evident displeasure of the French government only sweetened
Cameron’s win. Yet viewed dispassionately, rather than through
the lens of these traditional quarrels, the new EU budget gives
little cause for celebration.  The agreement continues to reduce spending on Europe’s
notoriously wasteful Common Agricultural Policy -- an elaborate
system of controls and payments -- but not by enough. Farm
subsidies and rural-development spending will continue to take
up more of the EU’s budget than any other area for the coming
years, with 39 percent of the total. French President  Francois Hollande  even managed last week to add some money for rural
development, the price of his agreement.  At the same time, the European Commission’s proposed
increases to funding for some of the growth-oriented,
transnational areas where the EU should do more -- such as
building cross-border energy and transport links, and boosting
research and development -- were reduced. Spending to help
develop the EU’s poorest regions, which Europe also ought to
support with increased outlays, was cut in absolute terms. The
budget for administration, on the other hand, was enlarged.  Huge Disparities  Real budget reform would have attacked farm subsidies more
forcefully and used the savings, and then some, to accelerate
EU-wide economic integration by building new infrastructure.
Europe’s current economic travails are worsened by the huge
disparities between the bloc’s most successful countries and
those that are less well-off. Narrowing those gaps requires,
among other things, additional investment to link Europe’s
nations together.  Successive rounds of budgeting have so far failed to get
the EU’s fiscal priorities right. There may soon be another
chance, when the European Parliament votes on the new plan later
this year. Regrettably, the main political factions in
parliament appear to be focused on the overall size of the
budget. They see the proposed cut in spending as a precedent-
setting attack on ambitions for the EU -- the same reason that
euro-skeptic rebels in Cameron’s Conservative Party are so
pleased with the deal.  Our advice to members of the EU Parliament is this: Worry
less about reversing the overall cut and instead shift resources
to where they can stimulate trade, growth and high-value job
creation.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net  