-- Nigerian Eurobond Yields Reach Two-Month High on U.S. Recovery
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2013-02-12T12:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/nigerian-eurobond-yields-reach-two-month-high-on-u-s-recovery.html
Nigeria’s dollar-denominated
borrowing costs rose to the highest in more than two months on
speculation that a U.S. economic recovery will drive up the
global borrowing benchmark rate.  Yields on the west African nation’s Eurobonds due 2021
climbed three basis points to 4.21 percent at 11:39 a.m. in
London, the highest since Dec. 4, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Should the U.S. economy recover, U.S. Treasury yields
will possibly back up, negatively affecting the 21s,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets strategist at Standard Bank Group
Ltd., said in an e-mailed reply to questions today. The bank has
a smaller allocation to Nigerian bonds than the weighting in
benchmark indexes, he said.  U.S. 10-year bond yields remained higher before a report
tomorrow that may show retail sales in the world’s biggest
economy climbed for a third straight month, damping demand for
the relative safety of U.S. debt. President Barack Obama
prepares to deliver his State of the Union address today, in
which he is expected to highlight plans to boost jobs and
bolster growth.  The international bonds of Africa’s biggest oil producer
declined 203 basis points, or 2.03 percentage points, last year
as crude prices stayed above the West African nation’s $72 a
barrel benchmark, boosting  foreign-currency reserves  34 percent
to $44 billion by year end.  The naira was little changed at 157.3 a dollar in Lagos,
the commercial capital. Yields on the nation’s domestic debt due
2022 fell four basis points to 10.88 percent, according to
yesterday’s prices on the Financial Markets Dealers Association
website.  Ghana’s cedi rose less than 0.1 percent to 1.9 per dollar
in Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  