-- Nokia Protests India’s Tax Claims in Regulatory Dispute
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2013-02-12T16:47:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/nokia-protests-india-tax-claims-says-authorities-violate-rules.html
Nokia Oyj , facing a claim for unpaid
taxes in India, filed letters of complaint against the
authorities’ investigation, saying their actions fall short of
meeting local laws and international standards.  Authorities entered factory premises and Nokia’s computer
systems “without valid authorization” and questioned
individual workers for “intolerably long periods of time,”
Nokia said today in an e-mailed statement. It said it filed the
complaints with income-tax authorities of Chennai and the state
of Tamil Nadu in southern India.  Nokia, the Finnish mobile-phone maker struggling with
falling sales and mounting losses at its handset unit, said last
month tax officials visited its manufacturing unit in Chennai,
claiming the company had failed to pay an undisclosed amount of
taxes. India is seeking 130 billion rupees ($2.4 billion) from
Nokia, according to an internal tax department document, said an
official in Chennai who asked not to be identified because the
person isn’t authorized to speak on the subject.  Nokia said today it hasn’t received any official
information on the tax claim.  “We do not see any merit in any of the claims, and are
ready to defend ourselves vigorously,” the Espoo, Finland-based
company said in the statement.  Chennai tax authorities haven’t received letters of
complaint from Nokia, according to the official.  Nokia shares were  unchanged  at 3.07 euros at the close of
trading in Helsinki.  India’s government is also in a tax dispute with Vodafone
Group Plc, saying the carrier owes $2.2 billion due to changes
in tax laws applied retroactively.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  