-- Novorossiysk Heads for 22-Month High on Owner Spat: Moscow Mover
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-02-12T11:55:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/novorossiysk-heads-for-22-month-high-on-owner-spat-moscow-mover.html
OAO Novorossiysk Commercial Sea Port 
headed for a 22-month high on speculation the owners of Russia’s
largest Black Sea harbor are boosting their stakes amid a
reported boardroom conflict.  The shares rose as much as 4.9 percent before trading up
3.8 percent at 3.71 rubles by 2:15 p.m. in Moscow, poised for
the strongest close since April 2011. The company has rallied 30
percent on the  Micex Index  this year, the biggest advance on the
50-stock gauge.  OAO Transneft , the state pipeline operator, has called on
Novorossiysk’s board to elect a new chairman and chief executive
officer, Kommersant reported yesterday, citing a letter from
Transneft’s CEO  Nikolay Tokarev  to  Ziyavudin Magomedov , Summa
Group’s owner and the port’s current chairman. Transneft and
Summa control 50.1 percent of the port, while the government has
a 20 percent stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The conflicting parties -- Transneft and Summa -- are
likely increasing their stakes right now,”  Elena Sadovskaya , an
analyst at Rye, Man & Gor Securities in Moscow, said by phone.
“Transneft realizes that Summa might get the government’s 20
percent stake and gain control over the company.”  Russia is interested in finding a strategic investor for
its shares, Economy Minister  Andrei Belousov  said on Feb. 7 at a
government meeting.  In the letter, Tokarev said that Transneft’s opinion on the
management of Novorossiysk was being ignored, Kommersant
reported. The details of Russia’s state asset sales plan will be
announced between April 1 and June 1, Russian Deputy Economy
Minister  Olga Dergunova  said on Feb. 7.  The amount of shares traded was 7.7 million, equivalent to
about 3.2 times the three-month average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  