-- Novogratz Says He Will Fight to Save Wrestling From Olympics Cut
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-02-12T23:12:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/novogratz-says-he-will-fight-to-save-wrestling-from-olympics-cut.html
Michael Novogratz  says he’ll use
lessons gleaned from a lifetime in wrestling as he tries to
overturn the sport’s elimination from the 2020 Olympics.  “There’s a great adage, don’t pick a fight with a
wrestler, because you’re going to get your ass kicked,”
Novogratz, the  Fortress Investment Group LLC  principal and
director, said hours after learning his sport had been
recommended to be dropped from the Olympic program. “All of a
sudden, someone’s decided to pick a fight with 5 million
wrestlers. People will be surprised by the reaction.”  The International Olympic Committee announced yesterday at
its headquarters in Lausanne, Switzerland, that its executive
board had voted to cut wrestling from a core group of 25 sports
for the 2020 Games.  That means wrestling, which has been in the modern Olympics
since they started in 1896 and was part of the ancient games in
Olympia, Greece, as early as 708 B.C., now must vie with seven
other sports for one spot in the 2020 program.  The 15-member board will meet again May 29-31 to decide
which of the eight to endorse for inclusion, giving wrestling 2
1/2 months to rally support. A final vote will take place in
September at a full meeting of IOC members.  The preliminary vote stunned many people involved with
wrestling and the Olympic movement, including Novogratz, co-
chairman of the recently created  U.S. Wrestling Foundation  that
oversees the sport’s development. Novogratz, 48, said in a
telephone interview that his initial response ranged from
despair to anger before deciding “we’re going to figure out how
to fight this.”  ‘Stunningly Damaging’  “It’s an existential threat” to the development of the
sport, said Novogratz, the former Princeton University wrestler
who is chairman of Beat the Streets, the inner-city wrestling
program. “It would be stunningly damaging.”  Wrestling will compete with baseball and softball, which
are seeking inclusion under a single sports banner; karate;
roller sports; squash; sport climbing; wakeboard, and the
Chinese martial art of wushu.  “Wushu?” Novogratz said. “I’ve never even heard of
wushu. There seems to be a disconnect.”  At the London Games last year, 29 nations won medals in
wrestling, according to Olympic historian David Wallechinsky.  “That, to me, is very powerful,” Wallechinsky, who was a
commentator in London for NBC Radio, said in a telephone
interview. “Not only does it allow countries that don’t
normally win medals to win medals, but some of our best U.S.
stories have come out of wrestling.”  Wrestling Disciplines  The International Federation of Associated Wrestling
Styles, known as FILA, oversees the sport, which consists of two
disciplines: Greco-Roman, in which athletes use their upper
bodies and arms only; and freestyle, in which athletes can use
any part of their bodies.  FILA said in a statement that it was “ greatly astonished ”
by the recommendation and that it would work to convince the IOC
to keep the sport.  FILA “just did not do a great job of selling the merits of
the sport,” said Novogratz, pointing out the popularity of
wrestling in countries such as Iran, Cuba, Azerbaijan and
Georgia; its practicality from a cost aspect, and its historical
importance to the Olympic movement.  “I am fairly certain that wrestling will be in the
Olympics in 2020,” Novogratz said. “We’re going to ensure that
with an aggressive lobbying effort, with money, with letters.”  Without much time to mount a campaign, wrestling faces a
difficult challenge, said  Harvey Schiller , the former president
of the International Baseball Federation.  After baseball and softball were voted out in 2005, the
sports tried to get considered again at a second meeting, as
wrestling will try to do.  Second Chances  “They got less votes the second time than they did the
first time,” Schiller, chief executive officer of  GlobalOptions
Group Inc ., said in a telephone interview. “Since it’s the same
board that’s meeting in May that just eliminated wrestling, why
would they bring it back?”  The September meeting also will determine which city out of
Istanbul, Madrid and Tokyo will host the 2020 Games.  Schiller, too, said he was surprised by the IOC vote,
calling it “a step away from the U.S.”  “You’ve got baseball, softball and now you’ve got
wrestling,” he said, also mentioning failed bids by New York
and Chicago to host the Olympics. “You’ve got a lot of things
in the same basket.”  The vote drew the opposite reaction among people
Wallechinsky spoke with from Iran and India, who complained of a
Western bias in the removal of a sport their countries also
embrace.  “They felt, ‘Here’s the Westerners adding tennis, golf,
rugby, sports that we don’t play in Asia, and eliminating one of
our few chances to get medals,’” Wallechinsky said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  