-- NRL Clubs to Meet With Australia Anti-Doping Body
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-12T07:07:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/nrl-clubs-mentioned-in-drug-report-to-meet-with-anti-doping-body.html
The six National Rugby League clubs
named in the Australian Crime Commission’s report into drug use
in sports declined to say why they were implicated after meeting
with the country’s anti-doping body.  Representatives from Manly, Cronulla, Penrith, Canberra,
North Queensland and Newcastle met with Australian Sports Anti-
Doping Authority officials today in Sydney as a group and
individually, the NRL said in a statement.  “In outlining the way forward, it was made clear that the
investigation process may take some time and it would not be
possible to comment publicly during the investigation,” the
teams said in a  joint statement  issued by the NRL. “The clubs
have agreed to fully support ASADA throughout this process.”  The crime commission’s Feb. 7 report, which followed a
yearlong investigation, said the use of banned substances was
common across multiple sports, linked organized criminal groups
with elite athletes, warned of possible match fixing and said
coaches and doctors were party to doping. The findings have
rocked Australia, home to almost 23 million people for whom
sport is part of the national identity.  The commission’s 43-page summary of its findings didn’t
identify teams, individuals or specific sports, raising concern
innocent athletes and clubs are being tarnished and questions
about the motives for last week’s announcement, which was
fronted by government ministers.  WADA Puzzled  “Whatever is behind it all, we need to know,” World Anti-
Doping Agency President  John Fahey  was cited as saying in
today’s Sydney-based Daily Telegraph. “But to be told it in
general terms, and have to wait significant time to see how big
the problem is, is something I am simply puzzled by. I do not
understand the motive behind that or the strategy.”  Australian Football League club Essendon, which had already
asked the AFL and ASADA to investigate supplements given to its
players in 2012, is being probed over the suspected use of
prohibited performance-enhancing drugs, the AFL said two days
ago. One player at a second club is under investigation for
possible performance-enhancing drug use, the league said,
without providing further details.  NRL Chief Executive Officer Dave Smith said earlier today
that he advised the six teams last night that they were referred
to in the report, adding that he didn’t have permission to give
them further details for legal reasons.  After the briefings with ASADA, which is following up the
report’s findings to see if anti-doping regulations have been
breached, Penrith General Manager  Phil Gould  said teams now have
a greater comprehension of the nature of the investigations.  ‘Better Understanding’  “Having sat through this meeting, and later being briefed
personally by the ASADA representatives, I have a better
understanding of the issues involved,” Gould said in a
 statement . “I understand the frustration that everyone must
feel, with so little detail and explanation available. But,
having met with ASADA today, I totally understand the process in
place, and the need for confidentiality.”  Following the report’s release, the NRL said it would
establish a fully resourced integrity unit, which would be
overseen by a former federal court judge.  With the 2013 NRL season starting March 7, Smith said he
understood the frustrations of clubs and fans though emphasized
that due legal process must be followed.  “The investigations need to run their proper course for
all concerned,” Smith said at a news conference in Sydney.
“These are very serious matters and we have to make sure it’s
properly considered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  