-- Obama Vows U.S. Vigilance After North Korean Nuclear Test
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-02-12T09:18:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/obama-vows-u-s-vigilance-after-north-korean-nuclear-test.html
President  Barack Obama  condemned
North Korea’s nuclear test today as a “highly provocative act”
that undermines regional stability and said the U.S. would take
whatever steps are necessary to defend itself and its allies.  The test, North Korea’s third since 2006, violates numerous
United Nations Security Council resolutions and deserves “swift
and credible action” from the international community, Obama
said in a statement released today by the White House.  “North Korea’s nuclear weapons and ballistic missile
programs constitute a threat to U.S. national security and to
international peace,” he said. “The United States remains
vigilant in the face of North Korean provocations and steadfast
in our defense commitments to allies in the region.”  The detonation marks an escalation in the global showdown
over North Korea’s nuclear program and threatens to disrupt
Obama’s second-term agenda dominated by domestic issues
including the economy, gun control and immigration policy. The
blast took place as he prepares to give his State of the Union
address to a joint session of U.S. Congress tonight.  North Korea said it conducted the underground nuclear test
today in a statement from its state-run Korean Central News
Agency. The blast at 11:57 a.m. local time is a direct challenge
to the international community, South Korean national security
adviser  Chun Yung Woo  said in a televised briefing in Seoul.  North Korean leader  Kim Jong Un  has worked to cement his
legitimacy since inheriting the position from his late father in
December 2011 by continuing a military-first policy while
seeking to boost an impoverished economy.  ‘Sworn Enemy’  Declaring the U.S. as “the sworn enemy of the Korean
people,” North Korea said Jan. 24 it would carry out “a
nuclear test of higher level,” according to a KCNA statement.  That threat followed an expansion of United Nations
sanctions targeting the totalitarian regime on Jan. 22 after
North Korea launched a long-range rocket in December. The UN
sanctions were supported by China, North Korea’s closest ally.  Obama cited the regime’s missile test as part of a series
of threatening actions that isolate North Korea and increase the
threat of arms proliferation.  “These provocations do not make North Korea more secure,”
the president said. “Far from achieving its stated goal of
becoming a strong and prosperous nation, North Korea has instead
increasingly isolated and impoverished its people through its
ill-advised pursuit of weapons of mass destruction and their
means of delivery.”  Diplomatic Challenge  The U.S. response will pose an early diplomatic challenge
to newly installed Secretary of State  John Kerry , who last week
warned of a “greater potential of conflict” in the event of a
North Korean nuclear test.  “The people of North Korea are starving,” Kerry said on
Feb. 7 in Washington. “They desperately need to become more
open and connected to the world instead of harboring some of the
worst gulags in the world where people are tortured, and forced
labor.”  Six-nation talks to defuse tensions involving the U.S.,
China, South Korea, Japan and Russia haven’t been held since
December 2008, and North Korea last month declared an end to
them. Obama said the U.S. would work with those partners along
with the UN to mount a quick response.  Today’s test was initially detected as a seismic
disturbance. The U.S. Geological Survey said on its website that
it had registered a 5.1 magnitude earthquake in North Korea at a
depth of about one kilometer.  Prior Tests  South Korea’s Defense Ministry said the blast had a yield
of about 6 to 7 kilotons. By comparison, the atomic bomb dropped
on Hiroshima on Aug. 6, 1945, had an estimated yield of 15
kilotons and killed 140,000 people.  North Korea conducted its two prior atomic tests in 2006
and 2009 at the Punggye-ri nuclear site about 370 kilometers
(230 miles) northeast of the capital, Pyongyang. The first in
October 2006 yielded less than one kiloton and the second in May
2009 between five to six kilotons, South Korean Defense Ministry
spokesman Kim Min Seok said today.  The nation has enough plutonium to produce four to eight
basic nuclear weapons, according to  estimates  by Stanford
University nuclear scientist Siegfried Hecker, who visited North
Korea’s uranium-enrichment and other atomic facilities in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  