-- Obama to Say Reigniting Growth Depends on Assisting Middle Class
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-02-12T23:11:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/obama-to-say-reigniting-growth-depends-on-assisting-middle-class.html
President  Barack Obama , in his State
of the Union address, will call on a divided Congress to
“reignite” economic growth by focusing on helping the
country’s middle-class, and argue that government has a role in
shaping prosperity.  “A growing economy that creates good, middle-class jobs --
that must be the North Star that guides our efforts,” Obama
will say tonight, according to excerpts released by the White
House. “Every day, we should ask ourselves three questions as a
nation: How do we attract more jobs to our shores? How do we
equip our people with the skills needed to do those jobs? And
how do we make sure that hard work leads to a decent living?”  The speech, scheduled for 9 p.m. Washington time, comes at
the start of Obama’s second term, affording him a prime-time
opportunity to press lawmakers on an ambitious agenda that
includes new measures to stimulate the economy and the
contentious issues of gun control, immigration and climate
change.  The president will offer proposals for spending on
infrastructure, clean energy and education, according to an
administration official briefed on the speech. As budget battles
loom with Republicans, Obama will argue that fostering economic
growth is the best strategy to narrow a federal budget gap that
has exceeded $1 trillion in each of the last four years. The
latest fight centers on a March 1 deadline for $1.2 trillion in
automatic spending cuts to take effect.  ‘Smarter Government’  “Tonight, I’ll lay out additional proposals that are fully
paid for and fully consistent with the budget framework both
parties agreed to just 18 months ago,” Obama will say. “Let me
repeat: nothing I’m proposing tonight should increase our
deficit by a single dime. It’s not a bigger government we need,
but a smarter government that sets priorities and invests in
broad-based growth.”  To avoid the so-called sequester, Obama has called on
Congress to pass a short-term measure of spending reductions and
revenue increases -- including closing loopholes used by the
wealthiest taxpayers. While Obama has signaled flexibility on
reducing growth in Social Security and Medicare, White House
spokesman  Jay Carney  yesterday said the president has ruled out
raising the age for Medicare eligibility, a move that some
Republicans have pushed.  Republicans have said they won’t consider raising more
revenue, pointing to the $650 billion tax increase on top
earners that Obama won as part of the last budget deal enacted
on Jan. 2.  Republican Response  Florida Senator  Marco Rubio , a rising star among
Republicans and one of three Hispanics in the chamber, will
deliver his party’s response to Obama’s address in Spanish as
well as English. It will be the first bilingual rebuttal to the
State of the Union speech.  Obama’s efforts to press a divided Congress on new economic
measures occur amid fresh concerns about the strength of the
U.S. recovery. After growing at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the
third quarter, the world’s largest economy unexpectedly shrank
in the final three months of the year, registering a 0.1 percent
decline.  The median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg is
for growth of just 2 percent this year. Real average weekly
earnings showed no gain for the year ended in December, and the
unemployment rate in January rose to 7.9 percent from 7.8
percent the month before.  Growth Engine  “It is our generation’s task, then, to reignite the true
engine of America’s economic growth -- a rising, thriving middle
class,” Obama will say. “It is our unfinished task to restore
the basic bargain that built this country -- the idea that if
you work hard and meet your responsibilities, you can get ahead,
no matter where you come from, what you look like, or who you
love.”  As Obama discusses the importance of manufacturing and
boosting U.S. competitiveness on a global scale,  Apple Inc. 
Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  will be attending the speech as
one of the guests of first lady  Michelle Obama .  Other guests include Cleopatra Cowley-Pendleton and
Nathaniel A. Pendleton Sr., whose daughter, 15-year-old Hadiya,
was gunned down in Chicago just days after she performed with
her high-school band at Obama’s inauguration.  While administration officials have said the speech will
focus primarily on economic matters, Obama will devote a portion
to his plans to drawdown the war in Afghanistan.  He’ll announce that about 34,000 U.S. troops will be home
from Afghanistan by this time next year, cutting the military
presence there by about half. The number of military personnel
will continue to be reduced through the end of 2014 as Afghans
take full responsibility for their security and the U.S. role in
the war comes to an end, administration official said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Julianna Goldman  in
Washington at   jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Steven Komarow
at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  