-- Olympus Drops After Net Forecast Cut on Camera Loss: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 2013-02-13T07:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/olympus-cuts-profit-forecast-on-impairment-at-imaging-business.html
Olympus Corp ., a Japanese digital
camera and endoscope maker,  slumped  the most in more than three
months in Tokyo trading after cutting its outlook for profit on
an impairment loss at its imaging division.  The medical and precision equipment maker  fell  2.7 percent,
the biggest drop since Nov. 6, to close at 2,020 yen. Net income
will probably be 6 billion yen ($64 million) this fiscal year,
compared with a previous forecast for 8 billion yen, the company
said yesterday after market hours.  Olympus  said it expects to lose about 16 billion yen this
fiscal year at its camera business, double the 8 billion yen
target set in November. The company intends to have a
reorganization plan ready for its camera operations by the time
it announces earnings for the year ending March, Senior
Executive Director  Yasuo Takeuchi  said.  “We were too optimistic” about the camera business,
Takeuchi told reporters yesterday in Tokyo. “We recognize that
the  forecast  cut is large.”  The company and rivals including  Nikon Corp.  have reported
weakening demand as consumers turn to smartphones that can take
pictures. Global shipments of digital cameras fell 14 percent in
value in November from the previous month, according to the
Camera & Imaging Products Association in Tokyo.  Olympus cut its full-year sales target for cameras to 110
billion yen from the 129 billion yen estimate made in November,
according to the statement. The company booked a 3.7 billion yen
impairment loss at its imaging systems business for the three
months ended December, according to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  