-- Thomas Re-Signs With Giants After Missing Past Two NFL Seasons
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-12T05:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/thomas-re-signs-with-giants-after-missing-past-two-nfl-seasons.html
The New York Giants re-signed
cornerback  Terrell Thomas , a former second-round draft pick who
had knee surgery each of the past two years and hasn’t played in
a National Football League game since the 2010 season.  Thomas, 28, was drafted by the Giants in 2008 and started
every game during the 2009 and 2010 seasons, leading the team in
tackles while totaling 10 interceptions.  Thomas tore his right anterior cruciate ligament during a
preseason game in 2011. He re-injured his knee before the 2012
season and required another surgery.  “For them to give me another opportunity to prove myself,
I feel very blessed,” Thomas said yesterday, according to
comments distributed by the Giants.  Thomas, who last played in the NFL during the final game of
the 2010 season, is in the midst of a two-month rehabilitation
and workout program in Pensacola, Florida. Among the other NFL
players in the program is Washington Redskins quarterback  Robert Griffin III , who had surgery to repair torn ligaments in his
right knee last month.  “My knee feels great,” Thomas said. “It was a little
struggle at first. It was a little inconsistent with the
swelling. But for the last month-and-a half I haven’t dealt with
any swelling at all. The doctors are really happy with the way
I’m progressing.”  The Giants, who allowed the NFL’s  fifth-most passing yards 
last season, didn’t disclose terms of Thomas’s contract.  “It’s been a long two years,” Thomas said. “It’s
definitely been a test of my will. But it’s made me a stronger
person. It showed me a lot of things about myself that I needed
to fix and at the same time it showed me how strong I was.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  