-- TomTom Falls as Sales Forecast Misses Estimates: Amsterdam Mover
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2013-02-12T10:55:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/tomtom-falls-as-sales-forecast-misses-estimates-amsterdam-mover.html
TomTom NV , Europe’s largest maker of
portable navigation devices, declined the most in more than
eight months after the company said sales will fall more than
analysts estimated.  Sales will drop to a range of 900 million euros ($1.21
billion) to 950 million euros this year, the Dutch company said
in a statement today. That would miss the 999.8 million-euro
average estimate of 13 analysts and would be the lowest level
since 2005, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. TomTom
shares dropped as much as 10 percent, the biggest intraday
decline since May 30.  “The guidance is disappointing relative to current
estimates, which is what the market will focus on,”  Martijn den Drijver , an analyst at SNS Securities, said in a note.  TomTom was down 7.5 percent at 11:52 a.m. in Amsterdam,
bringing the decline to 8.2 percent this year and valuing
Amsterdam-based TomTom at 773 million euros. The volume of
shares traded was more than double the three-month daily
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It is too early to say if and when growth returns,”
Chief Executive Officer  Harold Goddijn  said on a conference
call, adding that future improvement should come from the
automotive industry and map products for the fitness market.  Fourth-quarter sales fell 19 percent from a year earlier to
289 million euros as automotive revenue dropped 21 percent to 44
million euros and hardware revenue plunged 24 percent to 191
million euros. Licensing sales declined 7 percent to 37 million
euros as revenue from third-party device vendors fell.  TomTom gets most of its revenue by selling hardware. It
also supplies navigation applications to clients including Apple
Inc. for the iPhone 5.  TomTom said its “core market” for personal navigation
devices will shrink by 15 percent to 20 percent in volume in
2013. The market for such devices has plummeted in North America
and Europe as consumers increasingly use navigation software on
smartphones.  Automotive revenue is affected by “tough conditions” for
clients in the European car market, TomTom said. “Automotive
revenue will largely depend on the new car sales and take rates
of our current partners,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  