-- Longest Bonds Losing Appeal as 10-Year Yields Rise: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-02-12T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/longest-bonds-losing-appeal-as-10-year-yields-rise-muni-credit.html
The longest-dated municipal debt,
which beat all maturities in the $3.7 trillion market in the
past year, is losing its appeal for investors such as
AllianceBernstein LP and analysts at Morgan Stanley.  Both companies say debt maturing in five to 10 years offers
the best value, even though mutual funds focusing on longer
maturities have attracted twice as much cash this year as ones
with bonds maturing earlier. Yields on 10-year munis have risen
to the highest level since August relative to those on two-year
securities as the U.S. economy strengthens.  The 1.5 percentage point  yield gap  points to a strategy
called the roll, in which bonds gain value as they age, the
firms say.  “This is a gift,” said  Michael Brooks , a portfolio
manager in New York at AllianceBernstein, which oversees $31
billion of munis and says its intermediate funds outpaced their
peers in the past five years.  The Federal Reserve pegging its benchmark rate near zero
“means we’re going to have a steep yield curve for the next
three years, and a steep yield curve is going to allow us to
capture returns from roll,” Brooks said Feb. 5 at an investor
briefing in Manhattan.  Roll Approach  With local yields still close to  four-decade lows , the roll
strategy is one approach to investing as most analysts predict
interest rates are set to rise along with a recovering economy.
Yields on 30-year Treasuries will climb to 3.42 percent by the
first quarter of 2014, from about 3.17 percent yesterday,
according to the median response of 47 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. It would be the highest since April 2012.  AllianceBernstein and Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s
largest brokerage, suggest shunning longer maturities as hiring
gains and a rally in the Standard & Poor’s 500  Index  brighten
investors’ economic outlook.  The reward for extending beyond 10 years has also slimmed.
Yields on 30-year benchmark munis are only 1.05 percentage
points above those on 10-year obligations, about 15 percent
below the one-year average,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Price Risk’  Interest rates on lengthier maturities will increase at a
faster pace than on shorter maturities, said  Michael Zezas , a
muni strategist at Morgan Stanley in New York.  “If you think interest rates are moving higher, then the
long end of the curve is subject to more price risk from that
type of environment,” he said.  Still, investors have been buying longer munis for their
higher relative yields. U.S. mutual funds focusing on munis due
in 10 years or longer have added $2.5 billion in 2013, almost
double the amount poured into those with securities maturing in
five to 10 years, Lipper US Fund Flows data show.  As a result, munis maturing in 22 or more years have earned
about 1.1 percent in 2013, beating the 0.6 percent gain for the
broader market and all other maturities, Barclays Plc data show.  Brooks and Zezas say the way to achieve gains in 2013 is by
buying bonds maturing in about six to 10 years. Those securities
will increase in value as they age because of the relatively
large yield difference between maturities.  Cushion Check  “You don’t have much of a cushion to protect you against
negative returns” should the Fed start raising rates, Brooks
said in an interview. “But that cushion has been provided
through roll, if you go out and get it.”  Brooks is also focusing on munis rated four to six levels
below AAA because his analysis shows those securities posted
outsize gains in previous periods when the Fed increased
borrowing costs. Ten-year munis rated A+ yield about 0.8
percentage point more than top-rated debt, about double the 10-
year average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Since 1983, in the five periods in which the central bank
raised interest rates, single-A bonds due in five years
generated average annualized returns of 3.1 percent, according
to Brooks. That beats the 2.2 percent average gain for benchmark
munis and a loss of 1.1 percent on Treasuries.  “Not only are you picking up extra yield, you’re getting
protection against interest-rate risk,” Brooks said at the
briefing.  In trading yesterday, benchmark 10-year muni yields were
little changed at about  1.87  percent, near the highest since
August, Bloomberg Valuation data show.  Following is a pending sale:  NEW YORK CITY MUNICIPAL WATER FINANCE AUTHORITY plans to
sell $435 million of tax-exempt debt as soon as Feb. 19,
according to the Office of Management and Budget. The bonds are
secured by a second lien on water-system revenue, after the
authority’s first-lien debt. Moody’s Investors Service rates the
second-lien credit Aa2, third-highest and one level below the
first-lien bonds. (Added Feb. 12)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michelle Kaske  in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  