-- Montoro Says Spain to Discuss Pace of Budget Cuts With EU
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-02-12T12:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/montoro-says-spain-to-discuss-pace-of-budget-cuts-with-eu.html
Spain’s government plans to
negotiate the pace of its budget cuts to ensure the economic
slump doesn’t deepen after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said the
nation made “unprecedented” efforts in 2012.  “We need to continue cutting the public deficit at a
rhythm that doesn’t worsen the  recession ,” Budget Minister
 Cristobal Montoro  told a Madrid news conference today. “The
rhythm is what we need to negotiate with the European Commission
and the International Monetary Fund.”  Rajoy said earlier today that the government significantly
reduced the  budget gap  last year, without providing a figure for
the shortfall. Budget data to be released in the coming weeks
will show how close his five rounds of spending cuts and tax
increases got the shortfall to a 2012 target of 6.3 percent of
output set by euro-area finance ministers in July.  “The question is how low the deficit will fall compared to
the market’s estimates,” said  Peter Schaffrik , head of European
rates strategy at RBC Capital Markets in London. “Spanish
public finances can be made sustainable, but the deficit needs
to come down further as well as overall borrowing costs.”  Economists expect a Spanish budget gap of 8 percent in
2012, in line with the  commission’s forecast , including European
aid to recapitalize the banking industry accounting for one
percentage point. The deficit was the second largest in the
region along with Greece’s in 2011, with both nations at 9.4
percent. Ireland had the biggest shortfall in 2011.  Deficit Targets  Spain’s deficit goals are 4.5 percent of gross domestic
product for this year and 2.8 percent for 2014. The Bank of
Spain predicts the nation will miss its targets unless it steps
up the deepest budget cuts in its democratic history. On the
brink of a junk credit rating, Spain escaped a sovereign bailout
last year after the European Central Bank’s promise to safeguard
the euro lowered borrowing costs.  Spanish 10-year bond yields fell 13 basis points to 5.30
percent at 12:19 p.m. in Madrid after the Treasury sold 5.57
billion euros ($7.5 billion) of six- and 12-month securities,
meeting its maximum target for the sale even as one-year
borrowing costs rose.  That compares with a euro-era high of 7.75 percent in July
before the ECB pledge. Rajoy will meet ECB President  Mario Draghi  at 4 p.m. at his Moncloa Palace Madrid residence after he
speaks to lawmakers and reporters.  Debt Deepens  A five-year slump in the euro region’s fourth-largest
economy has led it to miss all its targets since 2009, when
overspending peaked at 11.2 percent of GDP.  “You can see for yourself that international organizations
aren’t asking us to implement more measures,” Montoro said.
“It could fuel more economic recession.”  Fiscal slippage has fueled a surge in Spain’s public debt
load, which has more than doubled since the end of a real-
estate-fueled boom in 2008. The European Union’s statistics
office, Eurostat, forecasts it’ll overshoot the euro region’s
average next year, at 97.1 percent of GDP.  While the commission’s  last report  in November pointed to
risks in Rajoy’s 2013 budget plan and recommended more cuts for
2014, EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
signaled on Jan. 28 he may seek to ease austerity prescriptions
for Spain.  The policy recommendations are due in May, after the
Brussels-based commission updates its growth and deficit
forecasts on Feb. 22, and Eurostat releases the first of its
biannual government debt and deficit estimates in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  