-- Too-Big-to-Fail Bill, Fund Bonuses, Libor: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-12T13:08:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/too-big-to-fail-bill-fund-bonuses-libor-compliance.html
U.S. Representative John Campbell
plans to offer legislation aimed at reducing the size of “too-
big-to-fail” banks by requiring them to hold more capital
including long-term debt.  Campbell, a California Republican, said he plans to
introduce his bill today. It comes as a number of lawmakers and
regulators from both parties -- including Federal Reserve
Governor Daniel Tarullo -- argue that the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act
failed to curb the growth of large banks and express support for
renewed efforts to limit the kind of systemic risk that fueled
the 2008 financial crisis.  Three of the four largest U.S. banks --  JPMorgan Chase &
Co ., Bank of America Corp. and Wells Fargo & Co. -- are bigger
today than they were in 2007, heightening the risk of economic
damage if one gets into trouble.  Banks typically fund their longer-term assets with short-
term debt, making a profit on the interest-rate difference
between the two. In a bank failure, stockholders are typically
wiped out, and short-term debt can evaporate quickly as
creditors refuse to renew commercial paper and short-term notes.  Campbell’s bill would require banks with at least $50
billion in assets to hold an additional layer of capital in the
form of subordinated long-term bonds totaling at least 15
percent of consolidated assets. If an institution were to fail,
the long-term bondholders would be guaranteed at no more than 80
percent of the face value of the debt. As a result, banks would
face pressure to reduce their balance sheets.  The extra layer of capital would be in addition to higher
levels required as part of the  Basel III international
regulatory accords . The goal is to protect taxpayers from
bailouts and equalize the competitiveness between large and
small institutions, which face higher costs of capital, Campbell
said.  Campbell also proposed using credit default swaps to help
gauge when regulators should step in and assess a bank’s
riskiness.  For related video, see Interviews section.  Compliance Policy  Fund Managers May Face Longer Wait for Bonuses Under ESMA Rules  Senior hedge-fund and private-equity managers may face
longer waits for bonuses under guidelines published by the
European Union’s top market regulator.  Bonuses for risk-taking employees should be withheld for a
period of time to align managers’ interests with the long-term
performance of the fund, the European Securities and Markets
Authority said yesterday.  Deferred parts of bonus awards should be paid out at least
over a three- to five-year period, ESMA said. Companies “should
consider longer” waiting times for “members of the management
body,” according to the document.  Payouts for bankers have been under scrutiny since the 2008
collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  European finance
ministers in 2010 approved a law, known as the Alternative
Investment Fund Managers Directive, which gave ESMA power to set
rules for hedge funds and private equity firms, regulating their
pay and access to EU investors. Member states have until July
2013 to implement the directive.  National regulators will police fund managers’ compliance
with the ESMA guidance on pay.  EU Banks May Have to Meet Basel Liquidity Rule Before Rivals  Banks  in the European Union may need to comply with an
international liquidity rule before competitors in other parts
of the globe as part of a deal on how the bloc should implement
Basel banking standards.  Nations are weighing calls from the European Parliament for
an “accelerated” introduction of the so-called liquidity
coverage ratio, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg
News.  Ireland, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, is
pressing for an agreement to have the rule take full effect on
Jan. 1, 2018, a year ahead of a deadline set last month by
global central bank chiefs, according to the document, which was
drawn up by the Irish government and is dated Feb. 8.  Basel regulators  said  last month that phasing in the LCR
from 2015 to 2019 would ensure that it could be introduced
without disrupting an orderly strengthening of the banking
system or the financing of the economy.  Now, lawmakers “want an accelerated introduction of the
100 percent ratio,” according to the Feb. 8 document.  The LCR -- which would force banks to hold enough easy-to-
sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze -- is part of an
overhaul of global financial rules, known as Basel III, intended
to prevent a repeat of the financial crisis that followed the
2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  The EU has struggled to agree on legislation to apply Basel
III, as governments and the  EU Parliament  clashed on a range of
issues including curbing banker bonuses, capital rules for
systemically important banks and the liquidity requirements.  The international 2019 start date for the liquidity ratio
was part of a package of proposed rules decided by central bank
chiefs last month meant to water down the standard amid concerns
that it could harm interbank lending and stifle a nascent
economic recovery. Global regulators had previously planned to
implement the requirement fully from 2015.  For more, click here.  Treasury Approves Oregon Test Program to Help Homeowners  The U.S. Treasury Department approved a new program to aid
underwater property owners in Oregon’s Multnomah County, Senator
Jeff Merkley, a Democrat from Oregon said in a statement.  The program aids borrowers with loans not backed by the
government. Underwater homeowners who are current on payments
will be allowed to refinance at lower rates under the program,
he said.  The pilot program, which borrows features from Merkley’s
proposal released last year, may create a model for the nation,
according to the senator.  The  Oregon Housing and Community Services Department  will
use funds awarded by the Treasury Department’s “Hardest Hit”
program to finance the program.  Oregon is first state to create such a program.  Compliance Action  UBS May Pay $30 Million for Failures Over Sales of AIG Fund  UBS AG  may have to pay out as much as 19.5 million pounds
($30.4 million) in fines and compensation for compliance
failures on the sale of a fund linked to  American International
Group Inc.   The bank was fined 9.45 million pounds by the U.K.’s
financial watchdog for failing to carry out due diligence on the
AIG Enhanced Variable Rate Fund before selling it to customers,
the U.K. Financial Services Authority said in an e-mailed
statement. It may need to pay out 10 million pounds more in
compensation to customers, the agency said.  The fine comes less than two months after the Swiss bank
agreed to pay about $1.5 billion to settle with U.S. and U.K.
regulators over manipulating interest rates to boost profits and
bonuses.  Some customers were prevented from withdrawing money from
the AIG fund after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in
2008 triggering a financial crisis, the FSA said. New York-based
AIG repaid the last of its $182.3 billion U.S. government
bailout in December.  “We are pleased that we can put this issue that dates back
to 2008 behind us, so that we can continue to focus on serving
our clients and executing our strategy,” the Zurich-based bank
said in an e-mailed statement.  UBS sold the fund to around 2,000 customers with initial
investments totaling 3.5 billion pounds between 2003 and 2008,
the FSA said.  Trash Talk Haunts Barclays Traders in FERC Manipulation Probe  Boastful chatter among young traders, preserved in digital
archives, has come back to haunt  Barclays Plc  as it defends
itself against allegations that it manipulated U.S. energy
markets.  Messages containing mild profanity and bragging have
surfaced in filings by the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission against London-based Barclays and four former
traders. The agency, which has expanded its oversight of energy
markets since the 2001 failure of Enron Corp., and its
enforcement unit are seeking a record $488 million in penalties
from the bank and its traders, which they are fighting.  The case is the latest example of how instantaneous
electronic communications can cause legal headaches years later.
In July, Barclays was fined a record 290 million pounds ($455
million), after regulators released e-mails from traders accused
of rigging the Libor. Last week, U.S. and British regulators
fined  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  $612 million after
electronic messages from bank traders allegedly showed they
manipulated rates.  Under post-Enron authority, the FERC can impose fines of as
much as $1 million per violation a day for manipulating energy
markets. Barclays has vowed to appeal the case to federal court
if the commission doesn’t relent.  Instant messages and e-mails sent by Barclays’ traders,
along with data, show the company conducted a “manipulative
scheme” from 2006 to 2008, costing other market participants at
least $139.3 million, according to the FERC’s enforcement
office. The regulator says the traders deliberately took losses
in physical markets, where electricity is bought and sold, to
benefit swap positions in financial markets.  The bank’s lawyers rebut that interpretation and say in a
Dec. 14 filing with the regulator that the FERC has cherry-
picked from more than 160,000 messages to build a baseless case.
Neither Barclays nor its traders did anything wrong, and the
electronic messages don’t line up with market data, according to
the filing.  The FERC staff rejects such explanations. On Jan. 28, after
reviewing responses from the traders and the bank, it upheld
$470 million in proposed penalties for Barclays and an
additional $18 million for the individuals involved.  For more, click here.  Autonomy Finance Reports Before HP Deal Probed by U.K. Regulator  Autonomy Corp.’s financial reporting before it was acquired
by  Hewlett-Packard Co.  is being investigated by the U.K.
accounting regulator.  The  Financial Reporting Council  is probing the published
accounts of Autonomy for January 2009 to June 2011, the agency
said in a statement yesterday. Hewlett-Packard, which took an
$8.8 billion writedown a year after acquiring Autonomy, on Nov.
20 accused the company of miscategorizing sales and financial
misreporting.  Hewlett-Packard said Autonomy booked hardware sales to
appear as more profitable software, and used transactions with
resellers of its software to accelerate revenue recognition or
fabricate sales. Hewlett-Packard has given its evidence to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the Serious Fraud
Office in the U.K.  “Autonomy received unqualified audit reports throughout
its life as a public company,” a spokeswoman for Autonomy’s
former management said in a statement.  A spokeswoman for Hewlett-Packard declined to immediately
comment.  Former Hewlett-Packard Chief Executive Officer Leo
Apotheker, who bought Autonomy to diversify away from hardware
and expand in software for businesses, left in 2011 after less
than a year on the job following repeated strategy shifts and
forecast cuts. Meg Whitman, who took over from him, said the
misrepresentations caused Hewlett-Packard to value Autonomy
incorrectly before the deal, which ultimately cost the Palo
Alto, California-based company $11.1 billion.  Porsche Market-Manipulation Probe Extended to Supervisory Board  The role of  Porsche SE  supervisory board members during a
failed bid to take over  Volkswagen AG  is being investigated as a
three-and-a-half-year-old market manipulation probe spreads.  Stuttgart prosecutors, who have already charged former
Chief Executive Officer Wendelin Wiedeking and ex-Chief
Financial Officer Holger Haerter, are now looking at the
supervisory board, Porsche spokesman Albrecht Bamler said in an
interview. He didn’t identify any individuals.  Stuttgart prosecutors are investigating whether Porsche
misled investors in 2008 when it denied that it was seeking to
buy VW. The company also faces lawsuits seeking more than 4
billion euros ($5.36 billion) in a Braunschweig, Germany, court
over the issue.  Porsche and its former executives have rejected the
allegations.  Jan Dietzel, a spokesman for the prosecutors, said he
couldn’t immediately comment. Der Spiegel reported on the
expanded probe yesterday.  Interviews/Hearings  RBS CEO Calls Libor Scandal Significant Control Failure  Stephen Hester, chief executive officer of  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , testified before the  U.K. Parliamentary
Commission on Banking Standards  in London about the Libor
scandal.  For the video, click here.  Campbell Wants ‘Painful, But Safe’ Law for Big Banks  U.S. Representative John Campbell, a Republican from
California, talked about his proposal to make big banks add a
new layer of capital of at least 15 percent of subordinated
long-term bonds, a move that could force “too big to fail”
banks to contract.  Campbell, speaking with Peter Cook on Bloomberg Television,
also talked about the outlook for automatic spending cuts set to
begin March 1, if Congress can’t agree on a deficit-reduction
plan.  For more, click here.  Turner Says Asset Managers Need Longer-Term Incentives  Adair Turner, chairman of the U.K. Financial Services
Authority, talked about proposed changes to fund managers’
performance bonuses.  He spoke with Bloomberg Television’s Elliott Gotkine in
London after the publication of a report by the Group of Thirty
financial policy group, of which he is a member.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  SEC Nominee White’s Disclosure Report Shows Possible Conflicts  Mary Jo White, President Barack Obama’s nominee to lead the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, said she will avoid
some matters involving firms including  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,
 General Electric Co . and Deloitte & Touche LLP if confirmed by
the Senate.  White, a former U.S. prosecutor who is retiring as a
partner in the law firm  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP , outlined her
recusal plans in cases involving former clients in a letter
accompanying her financial disclosure report. She reported
earning more than $2.4 million from her partnership stake last
year.  White may face questions over potential conflicts of
interest at her Senate confirmation hearing, which hasn’t been
scheduled.  Obama nominated White for SEC chairman on Jan. 24.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Main  in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 