-- Moody’s Authorizes $1 Billion of Stock Buybacks After Price Drop
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-02-12T23:39:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/moody-s-authorizes-1-billion-of-stock-buybacks-after-price-drop.html
Moody’s Corp. , the credit-ratings
firm whose shares plunged after the U.S. sued competitor
Standard & Poor’s, said its board had authorized repurchases of
$1 billion of stock.  The program could be used to buy back shares after Moody’s
exhausts its authority to repurchase stock under a previous
plan, which allowed it to acquire $677 million as of Dec. 31,
the New York-based company said yesterday in a statement
distributed by Business Wire.  Moody’s , owner of the second-largest ratings firm, has
tumbled 15 percent since S&P disclosed Feb. 4 a Justice
Department lawsuit over the alleged conflicts of interest that
led it to assign inflated grades to mortgage securities during
the credit boom. The decline includes a gain to $46.96 in
trading after the close of markets yesterday from $46.09 before
the release of the statement.  “The company plans to repurchase shares systematically and
opportunistically subject to available cash, market conditions
and other ongoing capital allocation decisions,” Moody’s said
in the statement. “As a result, the company’s share repurchase
activity may vary from quarter to quarter.”  Profit Rise  Moody’s, which had a market value of $11.22 billion on Dec.
31, said Feb. 8 that its fourth-quarter profit increased 66
percent to $160.1 million as companies took advantage of record
investor demand and lower borrowing costs by issuing debt.  While its shares have slumped amid concern that it may also
face new suits over its own mortgage-bond grades from the
government or private investors, Chief Executive Officer  Ray McDaniel  said on an earnings call with analysts that Moody’s
wasn’t aware of the U.S. preparing any action.  “We don’t have any knowledge of any pending complaint by
the Department of Justice raising similar claims against
Moody’s,” he said.  McDaniel had said on the call that Moody’s expected to
conduct approximately $500 million of share repurchases this
year, “subject to available cash, market conditions and other
ongoing capital allocation decisions.” Those planned buybacks
were “meant to substantially offset the impact of employee
stock-based compensation plans,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jody Shenn  in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  