-- Horse Meat Find Seen Boosting British Cattle Prices
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-02-13T17:28:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/horse-meat-find-seen-boosting-u-k-cattle-as-buyers-check-labels.html
The discovery of horse meat in
processed beef products in Europe is poised to boost record
prices for British cattle, as shoppers pay closer attention to
labels and buy more expensive products, independently audited to
prove their origin.  There’s no evidence yet that U.K. consumer demand for beef
slowed after reports by some supermarkets that horse meat was
found in ready meals meant to contain beef, said Nick Allen, the
executive director of the Agriculture & Horticulture Development
Board’s beef and lamb unit, EBLEX. Instead of switching to other
cuts like pork or chicken, customers will probably spend more
money for higher quality beef at meat counters or shop at
independent butcher shops, he said.  Consumers may buy more products with single country-of-
origin labels or tags showing meat has been inspected by third
parties to guarantee quality, Allen said in a telephone
interview yesterday from Kenilworth, England. Demand may
increase for products labeled under the Red Tractor Assurance
 program , which certifies meat is produced in the U.K. and
guarantees animal welfare and environmental standards, he said.  “This may increase demand for U.K. meat and may have
upward pressure on prices,” Allen said. “At the moment, on the
cheaper end of the supply chain, processors sometimes buy meat
from four, five, six different countries and stick it together.
Consumers in this country now are going to say ‘no’ to that.
They’ll want to hear where it’s coming from, and they won’t want
to hear it’s a blend of different countries.”  Cattle Herd  British spot-market steer prices rose to a record 3.865
pounds a kilogram ($2.75 a pound) in the week ended Jan. 5, up
8.8 percent from a year earlier, according to EBLEX. The U.K.
cattle  herd  last year was about 9.9 million head, the smallest
since at least 1974, according to Eurostat, the European Union’s
statistics office. The U.K. is the EU’s fourth-largest beef
producer, after France, Germany and Italy, according to
Eurostat.  Cattle futures on the Chicago Board of Trade, the global
benchmark, rallied to a record $1.35175 a pound on Jan. 11.
Prices fell 1.6 percent last week. In the U.S., the world’s
biggest beef producer, the cattle herd in January shrank to the
smallest in 61 years as feed costs climbed amid record corn
prices and drought that scorched pastures.  The U.K. Food Standards Agency on Feb. 8 said it was giving
food makers a week to test all their beef products, after a
range of lasagnas produced by Findus Group Ltd. was found to
contain more than 60 percent horse meat. Supermarkets including
Tesco Plc, Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda and Aldi have removed
some ranges of frozen beef burgers from their shelves in the
past month as concern has escalated over tainted meat.  Food Chain  The prepared meals sold by Findus were manufactured at a
Luxembourg factory owned by French company Comigel, France’s
consumer and anti-fraud office DGCCRF said Feb. 9. Comigel’s
supplier was Spanghero SAS. It bought the frozen meat from a
Cypriot trader that sub-contracted a Dutch trader who sourced
the meat from a slaughterhouse and a meat packer in Romania,
according to the DGCCRF. Romania’s Agriculture Minister Daniel
Constantin said there’s no indication that the meat mislabeling
was done in Romania.  “The contamination took place post farm gate, which
farmers have no control over,” Peter Kendall, U.K. National
Farmers Union president, said in a  statement  yesterday. “Our
members are rightly angry and concerned with the recent
developments relating to contaminated processed meat products.”  British retail prices for sirloin steak climbed to 20.71
pounds a kilogram as of Feb. 2, the highest on records since
January 2004, according to EBLEX data. The price of standard
minced beef was 4.77 pounds a kilogram, also the highest on
record and 11 percent higher than at the same time last year.  “The reason processors are blending meat is to keep it
cheap,” Allen said. “If they separate it by individual country
of origin with labels, there’s a cost that comes with that. That
cost will have to be taken up by the processor or paid for by
the consumer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Whitney McFerron  in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  