-- Horse Meat Scandal May Lead to Higher Prices, Rules
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-02-13T17:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/horse-meat-probe-spurs-regulation-blizzard-as-grocers-test-beef.html
The discovery of horse meat in beef
products may spur “a blizzard” of European regulations for the
food industry, as agriculture ministers meet tomorrow in
Brussels and British cattle prices climb to records.  Ireland, which holds the European Union’s six-month
rotating presidency, will convene an informal meeting of
relevant agriculture ministers and the EU Commissioner for
Health and Consumer Policy  Tonio Borg  at 6 p.m. tomorrow in the
Belgian capital. France, the EU’s largest beef producer, will
push for compulsory labeling of the origin of meat in processed
food, Agriculture Minister  Stephane Le Foll  said yesterday.  Supermarkets in the U.K., France, Ireland and Germany
removed frozen beef burgers and lasagnas from shelves and France
has threatened sanctions for negligence and fraud.  Catherine Brown , the head of the U.K.’s Food Standard Agency, called on
retailers to also test pork and chicken products for cross
contamination, according to the Telegraph newspaper.  “This is going to run and run now as it spreads across
Europe,” said  Bryan Roberts , director of retail at market
researcher Kantar Retail in London. “For now, it’s contained to
beef and supermarkets, but it will be really worrying if it
starts hitting food services in hospitals and schools. We’ve
seen a political response now with the horse meat summit and
while that is good for consumers, the industry will no doubt be
hit with a blizzard of red tape now.”  Higher Quality  While there’s no evidence yet that consumer beef demand has
slowed in the U.K., customers probably will spend more on higher
quality cuts at meat counters or buy from independent butchers,
said Nick Allen, the executive director of the Agriculture &
Horticulture Development Board’s beef and lamb unit, known as
Eblex. Buyers may also look for products that have been
inspected by third parties to guarantee quality and origin, such
as the Red Tractor Assurance certification  program .  “This may increase demand for U.K. meat and may have
upward pressure on prices,” Allen said. “At the moment, on the
cheaper end of the supply chain, processors sometimes buy meat
from four, five, six different countries and stick it together.
Consumers in this country now are going to say ‘no’ to that.
They’ll want to hear where it’s coming from, and they won’t want
to hear it’s a blend of different countries.”  British Beef  British retail prices for sirloin steak climbed to 20.71
pounds ($32) a kilogram as of Feb. 2, the highest since January
2004, according to EBLEX data. The price of standard minced beef
was 4.77 pounds a kilogram, also the highest on record and 11
percent more than at the same time last year. British spot-
market steer prices rose to a record 3.865 pounds a kilogram
($2.75 a pound) in the week ended Jan. 5.  Tesco Plc , Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda and Aldi have
removed some ranges of frozen beef burgers from their shelves in
the past month as concern has escalated over tainted meat. A
line of lasagnas produced by Findus Group Ltd. was found to
contain more than 60 percent horse meat, and Tesco said
yesterday that tests found the same percentage of the meat in
some spaghetti Bolognese products.  “The potential Europe-wide scale of the issue was
highlighted last night when the complexity of the supply chain
was revealed,”  John Kershaw , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas
said in a note today, referring to a BBC report that France’s
Comigel, which supplied the mislabeled Findus and Tesco lasagna
and spaghetti Bolognese, distributes to 28 countries.  Food Labels  The prepared meals sold by Findus were manufactured at a
Luxembourg factory owned by Comigel, France’s consumer and anti-
fraud office said Feb. 9. Comigel’s supplier was Spanghero SAS.
It bought the frozen meat from a Cypriot trader that sub-
contracted a Dutch trader who sourced the meat from a
slaughterhouse and a meat packer in Romania, according to the
regulator. Romania’s Agriculture Minister  Daniel Constantin  said
there’s no indication that the meat was mislabeled in Romania.  Labels on processed food are only required by the EU to
indicate the type of meat used, while fresh meat must specify
country of origin, France’s Le Foll said.  EU countries are individually responsible for verifying
what is sold in their markets, including whether food is
correctly labeled, EU spokesman  Frederic Vincent  said yesterday.
The European Commission, the bloc’s executive arm, can only take
measures when food-safety is at risk, he said.  U.K. Environment Secretary  Owen Paterson  said today he
favors introducing random testing for meat imports rather than
relying on certification of meat in its country of origin.  “Too much is taken on trust within the current system,”
Paterson told lawmakers in the House of Commons in London today.  More needs to be done by “all operators to reduce the
complexity of the supply chain and increase its integrity,”
Kershaw said. “Ultimately, it likely points to higher basic
food prices across all stores.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  