-- House Republicans Said to Plan U.S. Budget Bill With Cuts
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-02-12T23:40:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/house-leaders-said-to-plan-u-s-budget-bill-with-cuts.html
U.S. House leaders plan to take up a
measure to fund the government for the rest of the fiscal year
that would reduce spending levels below $1 trillion, according
to two Republican aides.  House leaders may advance a six-month stopgap funding
measure as soon as the week of Feb. 25 when Congress returns
after a one-week recess, according to the two Republican aides
who asked not to be identified because the plans haven’t been
completed. Legislation passed last year, known as a continuing
resolution, funds the government through March 27; the 2013
fiscal year ends on Sept. 30.  “I know that there are discussions,” Representative  Tom Price , a Georgia Republican, said after a press event today in
Washington. “It’s because many of us believe that the sooner
that happens the better.”  Price, the vice chairman of the House Budget Committee,
said he wasn’t “privy” to any final decisions on a plan.  The plan is part of House Republicans’ strategy to
negotiate spending cuts in fiscal discussions with President
 Barack Obama  and the Democratic-led Senate.  The measure would fund the government through Sept. 30 at
about $974 billion, below the current level of $1.043 trillion.  About $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts stemming
from a 2011 agreement are scheduled to take effect March 1. Half
of the cuts would come from the defense budget.  Lower Levels  The stopgap spending bill being considered would be at
lower levels because House Republicans are working under the
expectation that the automatic spending reductions, known as
sequestration, will take effect.  House Republicans are seeking ways of “distributing” the
cuts while keeping the reduced spending cap in the next budget
measure, Representative  Tom Cole , an Oklahoma Republican, said
in an interview.  Congress passed a stopgap spending measure for the first
six months of the 2013 fiscal year, which began Oct. 1, because
none of the annual appropriations bills that fund federal
agencies were adopted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  