-- Oxford Institute Defends Independence After Gazprom Criticism
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-02-12T16:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/oxford-institute-defends-independence-after-gazprom-criticism.html
The Oxford Institute for Energy
Studies defended the independence of its research and refuted
claims by  Sergei Komlev , OAO Gazprom’s head of pricing, that its
work lacks balance.  OIES is an academic researcher and doesn’t carry out
consultancy work, co-founder  Jonathan Stern  and  Howard Rogers ,
head of natural-gas research, said today in an e-mailed report.
It has taken into consideration arguments in support of tying
the price of gas to oil as supported by Gazprom, they said.  OIES research on the transition to hub-based natural gas
pricing in Europe was “not convincing” and the institute’s
failure to engage with credible arguments in support of oil
indexation in long-term supply contracts constituted “head-in-
the-sand behavior,” Komlev said in a paper last month.  Suppliers to Europe including Gazprom, Russia’s natural gas
export monopoly, and Statoil ASA of Norway have increased the
amount of spot pricing in long-term contracts linked to oil,
which meet most of Europe’s demand. Gazprom took a 78.5 billion-
ruble ($2.5 billion) charge in the first quarter of 2012 on
retroactive gas-price adjustments after talks with European
Union customers, according to financial statements published
Sept. 6.  “We vigorously object to Komlev’s reference to us as
‘consultants,’” OIES said in the report. “We have no
commercial position to protect and no clients whose views we
need to take into account. Not only do we believe we engaged
constructively with arguments in support of indexation, but that
in his paper he acknowledged that we did so.”  Komlev has repeatedly defended oil-linked long-term gas
contracts on the grounds that with so few companies supplying
Europe it would be easy to manipulate prices if the market was
completely liberalized as in the U.S. Suppliers need to be
compensated for the flexibility they offer buyers, he said in
the January paper.  “A shift to such a pricing system would be detrimental to
many of the existing long-term contracts that are a cornerstone
of energy security for import-dependent Europe,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  