-- Moynihan Says Financing Available for California Projects
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2013-02-12T21:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/moynihan-says-financing-available-for-california-projects.html
Residential construction is being
held back in California by a lengthy permitting process, not a
shortage of financing,  Bank of America Corp.  Chief Executive
Officer  Brian Moynihan  said today.  “The money is sitting there,” Moynihan said during a
panel discussion with Governor  Jerry Brown  at a housing forum in
Oakland, California. “Financing won’t be the toughest thing.”  Moynihan said BofA has modified about 250,000 mortgages in
California amid a home-price rebound in coastal cities. Four of
the six priciest U.S. markets are located in the state, the
National Association of Realtors said in a Feb. 11 report. The
San Jose metropolitan area, home to Silicon Valley, led the
nation with a median house value of $685,000 in the fourth
quarter, up almost 25 percent from a year earlier. San Francisco
ranked third, Anaheim-Santa Ana was fourth and San Diego was
sixth. Los Angeles ranked 13th.  The state’s environmental-review process for real estate
projects, based on the California Environmental Quality Act, can
be a “land mine” that inhibits development, Brown said during
the panel discussion.  “Regulatory reform is in order,” he said. “We’re going
to do what we can to push a balanced policy” that includes
transit-oriented projects.  Moynihan echoed previous remarks in which he urged the U.S.
government, lenders and borrowers to lower expectations about
homeownership. Government-run mortgage companies Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac should undergo an “orderly transition” to diminish
their financing role, and the Federal Housing Administration
should return to an original focus on helping low- and moderate-
income borrowers, Moynihan said on Dec. 14 at the  Brookings
Institution  in Washington.  Higher Yields  “We need to look hard at some of the old assumptions,”
Moynihan said at Brookings.  At today’s event, Moynihan said changing the role of Fannie
and Freddie is “decades’ work.” The private sector will take
over the government’s housing-finance role when “yields rise,”
he said.  Demand from private investors for mortgage-backed
securities is lifting the market for residential loans not
backed by the government, and contributing to the housing
recovery in coastal California cities. So-called jumbo or non-
conforming mortgages may climb 15 percent to $253 billion this
year, according to Inside Mortgage Finance. Mill Valley,
California-based  Redwood Trust Inc.  and New York-based  Chimera
Investment Corp.  are packaging the loans into bonds.  Ownership Rate  California’s 55 percent ownership rate, which compares with
65 percent nationally, means that state policy makers should
encourage more rental projects,  Kenneth Rosen , chairman of the
Fisher Center for Real Estate & Urban Economics at the
University of California, Berkeley, said in an interview before
the forum. The Fisher Center sponsored today’s event.  California will always trail the U.S. ownership rate
because demand in cities such as San Francisco, Los Angeles and
San Diego will keep home values beyond the means of many would-
be buyers, said Rosen, who moderated the panel discussion. The
state needs a streamlined land-use policy so residential
builders “know in six months, not seven years” whether their
projects can proceed, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  