-- Pakistan Rupee Weakens Beyond 100 to a Record Low in Kerb Market
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2013-02-12T09:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/pakistan-rupee-weakens-beyond-100-to-a-record-low-in-kerb-market.html
Pakistan’s rupee weakened beyond 100
per dollar to a record low in the so-called kerb market amid
concern loan repayments to the International Monetary Fund will
further erode the nation’s foreign-exchange reserves.  The State Bank of Pakistan tapped the nation’s currency
stockpile to pay $145.8 million to the Washington-based lender
this week, Syed Wasimuddin, the central bank’s Karachi-based
spokesman, said in an e-mail today. The payments are putting
pressure on the country’s reserves, which declined to $8.7
billion last month from $12.5 billion a year earlier, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a statement on Feb. 7.  “People are converting their goods into dollars because
they feel the country will not have enough money to pay the
IMF,” said Bilal Razzak, a trader in Karachi at Glaxy Exchange
Pvt., a foreign-exchange firm. “They are converting their
savings and stay safe, in case there is a shortage of cash.”  The rupee fell to 100.10 per dollar today from 100.00
yesterday in the kerb market, according to Glaxy Exchange and
Mega Currency Exchange Co., another Karachi-based currency firm.  In the interbank market, the rupee slid 0.1 percent to
98.075 per dollar as of 2:48 p.m. in Karachi, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It lost 0.9 percent so far this year.  Rates at Pakistan’s kerb market, which isn’t regulated by
the central bank, account for 20 percent of total transactions,
and caters to the majority of the public. The market allows
individual buyers and sellers to exchange currencies outside
central bank rules that regulate interbank trading,  Sayem Ali ,
an economist in Karachi at Standard Chartered Plc, said by
phone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi, Pakistan, at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anil Varma at  