-- Philadelphia Casino Applicants Take Aim at Atlantic City
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-02-12T22:42:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/philadelphia-casino-applicants-take-aim-at-atlantic-city.html
Six applicants for a casino license
in Philadelphia detailed proposals signaling more competition
for the struggling gambling industry in neighboring  New Jersey .  “Atlantic City is the enemy,”  Steven Wynn , chairman and
chief executive officer of Las Vegas-based  Wynn Resorts Ltd. ,
said today as he presented plans for a resort costing as much as
$1 billion that he hopes to build on the Delaware River, about
60 miles northwest of New Jersey’s gambling center.  The Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board is weighing
applications for what would be the fifth casino in the
Philadelphia area. Last year, the state, home to 11 casinos,
passed New Jersey to become the second-largest U.S. gambling
market. Revenue at New Jersey’s 12 casinos fell 13 percent to
$206 million in January, from the same month in 2012, the state
Gaming Enforcement Division  reported  yesterday.  Wynn pitched an all-suites resort with a riverwalk and
views of the Benjamin Franklin Bridge to New Jersey. The 71-
year-old billionaire mentioned his ties to the city several
times, including attending the University of Pennsylvania five
decades ago. He got applause from attendees after showing videos
of his room designs with music by Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin and
Bing Crosby singing “Style” from the 1964 movie “Robin and
the 7 Hoods.”  ‘Show Business’  “OK, a little show business today,” he said.  Pennsylvania regulators will hold public hearings in April.
A decision on which applicant would get the Philadelphia license
is expected in six to nine months, according to Douglas Harbach,
a spokesman for the board.  Other applicants include  Penn National Gaming Inc. , based
in Wyomissing, Pennsylvania, which presented plans for a $480
million Hollywood Casino in the city’s sports district and
developer Bart Blatstein, who showed plans for the  Provence , a
French-themed resort north of the iconic City Hall.  Blatstein said the $300 million he has already invested in
the city amounted to more than all the other applicants
combined.  “We’re not people coming from out of town, saying how much
we love Philly, we love cheesesteaks, and jet back out,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  