-- Pipe-Swipers Take Toilets as U.S. Homes With Plumbing Ebb
-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n ,   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2013-02-12T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/pipe-swipers-take-toilets-as-u-s-homes-with-plumbing-ebb.html
Bill Heaney gets about two calls a
day from people who bought foreclosed, vacant  Detroit  homes that
lack basic plumbing -- victims of thieves who strip pipes, water
heaters and toilets.  “All the pipes will be gone,” said Heaney, 70, who has
run Heaney Plumbing & Heating in Detroit for more than four
decades. “It’s really gotten bad, probably the last four years,
and we’ve been getting a lot of calls. The furnaces, the water
heaters and all the pipes, even the sinks -- gone.”  Amid the worst recession since the Great Depression,
pilfering cut the number of U.S. homes with complete plumbing by
about 10.4 percent from 2008 to 2011, according to U.S. Census
data compiled by Bloomberg. That reversed a five-decade trend.
The decay of housing adds another obstacle to recovery in Rust
Belt cities already beset by crime and poverty.  Detroit leads U.S. cities in homes that the Census Bureau
says lack basic plumbing. The agency found similar devolution in
Flint, Michigan; Cleveland and Dayton, Ohio; Camden, New Jersey;
and Buffalo, New York.  “It’s a vicious circle,” said John George, who has run
the nonprofit Motor City Blight Busters in Detroit for a quarter
century, trying to rehabilitate crumbling neighborhoods.
“Blight is like a cancer. If you don’t nip it in the bud, it
spreads. Before you know it, you look up, the whole street is
gone. It’s a major problem.”  Vacant Expanses  It’s one that has grown as the city, which has a $326
million deficit and faces the possible appointment of a state
emergency manager, has emptied.  Detroit, which peaked at 1.85 million residents in 1950,
has lost a quarter of its residents since 2000. It fell to
714,000 people in the 2010 census. Wayne County, which
encompasses it, last year put a record 21,350 tax-delinquent
properties up for sale and sold 12,333. Another 22,000 may go on
sale this year.  When an intact three-bedroom house in Detroit can sell for
$10,000, homes stripped of plumbing, wiring and other parts
quickly become valueless, George said.  “You’ve done almost irreversible damage,” said George.
“You can fix anything, but the reality is, when is enough
enough?”  With about 19 percent of its 360,951 units lacking complete
plumbing, Detroit trailed only Gary, Indiana, with 24 percent,
in the concentration of bathroom-deficient housing among large
U.S. cities, according to the census.  Roving Gangs  The problem is distinctly urban and insidious, said Alan
Mallach, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution in
Washington.  “When a unit becomes vacant in large parts of Detroit,
Cleveland, Camden, you name it, it gets stripped,” he said.
“Where you have these roving stripping gangs, as well as
vandalism, the houses will go pretty fast.”  To qualify as having full plumbing, a house must have hot
and cold running water; a flush toilet; a bathtub or shower; and
a sink with a faucet, according to census criteria. Almost 3
million homes in the U.S., about 2.2 percent of the total,
lacked plumbing in 2011, according to the census figures.  The backsliding goes against the long-term trend. Forty-
five percent of all U.S. housing units  lacked  complete plumbing
in 1940. By 1990, the number was 1.1 percent. Yet from 2008 to
2011, the number of fully plumbed homes declined in all 50
states, the data showed.  Unplumbed Permafrost  The U.S. county with the highest percentage is the Yukon-
Koyukuk census area of Alaska, with 62 percent. Slightly more
than 13 percent of Alaska’s housing lacked complete plumbing in
2011, mostly because cold weather and sparse population make it
difficult to build water and sewer systems.  In industrial cities, the reasons are human. Metal
strippers in Camden are so brazen that Juan Delgado, owner of
Ralf’s Plumbing & Heating, says he won’t install pipes above
ground without warning a homeowner.  “I will sell you copper lines, but more likely I will take
pictures, and I want it inspected the same day because the great
chances are that tomorrow it won’t be here,” said Delgado, 55,
a plumbing contractor in the area for 27 years.  His niece recently paid $240 to have a water meter
installed on a property she bought.  “The next day she went to keep working on the house, and
the water meter was gone,” he said. “How much did they get for
that water meter? Five bucks. Seven bucks, if that.”  Copper Climbs  The wholesale thievery happened as scrap metal’s value
rose. Copper prices climbed to a peak of $4.62 a pound on the
London Metal Exchange in February 2011 before ending that year
down 21 percent. An average single-family home uses 439 pounds
of copper, according to the Copper Development Association.  New Jersey Assembly member  Angel Fuentes , who said his own
home in Camden was burglarized by pipe scavengers about seven
years ago, has introduced legislation prohibiting scrap dealers
from paying in cash and requiring them to register with police.  “It’s getting too out of control,” Fuentes, a Democrat,
said in a Jan. 30 telephone interview.  In one recent case, he said, robbers stole copper pipes
from a church basement that were probably worth $100. The damage
to the church exceeded $1,200, he said.  The metal in a typical urban home is worth about $1,000 to
$1,500, a fraction of the cost to repair the damage. Thieves
smash the toilets for brass fittings and even tear apart window
frames for metal counterweights, Detroit plumber Heaney said.  Playing Catch-Up  For now, there’s no sign that the situation is going to
improve, said George, of Blight Busters. His group is in the
midst of taking down two city blocks of dilapidated homes to
make way for an urban farm that George says he’s hoping will
help stabilize the area.  At about $10,000 for each home, just taking down eight
residences last year and another eight this year means the group
is out $160,000 in funds for “just throwing stuff away,” he
said.  “We hope that when we catch up, there will still be
something left to save.” George said. “The strippers really
cause a lot of heartache on a lot of levels. Once a house is
stripped like that, the next step is demolition. It’s almost
like grabbing a handful of sand. The harder you squeeze, the
more you lose.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Green in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  