-- Pound Falls to 6-Month Low Versus Dollar Before BOE Data
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2013-02-12T16:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/pound-strengthens-versus-euro-before-consumer-price-data.html
The pound fell for a second day
versus the euro on speculation the Bank of England will cut its
growth forecasts in its quarterly Inflation Report tomorrow,
underlining the case for keeping interest rates at a record low.  The U.K. currency reached the weakest level in six months
against the dollar even as a report showed the U.K. inflation
rate stayed at the highest since May. Sterling slumped the most
in eight months against the yen after a Group-of-Seven official
said the world’s major industrial nations are concerned about
excessive moves in Japan’s currency. A gauge of volatility on
the pound versus the euro climbed to a seven-month high. U.K.
government bonds were little changed.  “The inflation numbers we’ve seen today aren’t going to
cause the BOE to start tightening,” said  Simon Smith , chief
economist at FxPro Group Ltd. in London. “The economy’s just
too weak for that. The relationship between the data and the
currencies has become more complex. We’re not seeing firmer data
reducing stimulus expectations. The pound can weaken further.”  The pound weakened 0.4 percent to 85.97 pence per euro as
of 4:44 p.m. in London after declining 1.2 percent yesterday.
The U.K. currency was little changed at $1.5653 after dropping
to $1.5573, matching the low set on Aug. 8. Sterling slid 1.3
percent to 145.85 yen.  U.K. policy makers said after their Feb. 7 meeting that
 inflation  may stay above its 2 percent target for the next two
years. With the economic recovery struggling to gain momentum,
the Bank of England said it was right to “look through” this
period of above-target price growth.  ‘Another Chance’  “The Inflation Report forecasts, out tomorrow, will give
the BOE another chance to reiterate its guidance on future
policy,”  Rob Wood , an economist at Berenberg Bank in London and
a former Bank of England official, wrote in a note to clients.
“The new inflation forecast is likely to be above target until
2015. That should not lead to tighter policy.”  The pound weakened 0.4 percent against the euro and dropped
0.2 percent versus the dollar after the central bank published
its previous Inflation Report on Nov. 14.  Consumer prices rose 2.7 percent from a year earlier, the
Office for National Statistics said in London, matching the
median estimate of 36 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Three-month implied volatility on the pound versus the euro
climbed as high as 8.6 percent, the highest since June 19. The
gauge ended last year at 5.9 percent.  Bond Purchases  The Bank of England last week kept its target for bond
purchases at 375 billion pounds and its benchmark interest rate
at 0.5 percent. Governor  Mervyn King  will publish the new
forecasts for growth and inflation at a press conference at
10:30 a.m. in London tomorrow.  The pound has weakened 3.8 percent this year, the second-
worst performer after the yen among 10 developed-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The euro rose 2.5 percent and the dollar gained 0.3 percent.  The yen rose against all its major counterparts after an
official from a G-7 nation said the group was concerned about
excessive moves in Japan’s currency. Japan will be in the
spotlight when the Group of 20 meets in Moscow this weekend, the
official said on condition of anonymity.  The benchmark 10-year gilt yielded 2.11 percent. The price
of the 1.75 percent bond due in September 2022 was at 96.91.  The U.K. Debt Management Office said it plans to sell 2.25
billion pounds of 10-year securities on Feb. 21.  U.K. government bonds handed investors a loss of 2.2
percent this year through yesterday, according to indexes
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. German bunds dropped 1.4 percent and
Treasuries fell 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  