-- Prince Follows Bowie, Bloody Valentine Springs Comeback
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2013-02-12T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/prince-follows-bowie-bloody-valentine-springs-comeback.html
Prince  is following  David Bowie ’s
lead in springing a comeback on the world.  Prince’s new single “Screwdriver,” out today, was made
available online with no advance notice on new websites,
 3rdEyeGirl  and  20pr1nc3.com .  The purple one has been an Internet skeptic for years,
regularly blocking unauthorized copies of his recordings. The
latest is a back-to-basics riff laced with double entendres.  “I’m your driver, you’re my screw,” goes the childish
chorus. Oh dear. It’s so obvious it’s cringeworthy and
surprising it hasn’t been done before. The track at least has
amusing echoes of 1984’s “Purple Rain” freaked-out guitar.  A second track, “Breakfast Can Wait,” has Prince starting
his day with a roll in bed with a little honey. Its falsetto
speeded-up vocal harks back to 1987’s “Sign ‘O’ The Times.”  Another new song, the poppy “Rock ’n’ Roll Love Affair,”
sounds like an outtake off “Lovesexy.” Prince looks the same as
he did in the 1980s in the video. Let’s hope his elixir of youth
doesn’t run out before his next CD emerges.  Prince still virtually lives in the studio and has
squirreled away hundreds of tracks. Some  of  his last  releases 
were given away for free with newspapers so he’s got a long way
to climb back. Rating: **½ for the singles so far.  Bloody Valentine  My Bloody Valentine also made some of the finest rock of
two decades ago. Its return, with “MBV,” is even more dramatic.  There were some clues in 2012 with a flurry of activity (by
the Irish band’s standards.) First, there was a deluxe version
of the last album, “Loveless” from 1991.  Second, leader Kevin Shields announced a concert tour. Fans
assumed the quartet would be making a racket before going back
to their houses and probably doing nothing for a long time.  Shields also mentioned in passing at one show that new
music was coming within days. The result popped out as a stream
on his  website  -- which promptly crashed. It can be downloaded
with physical copies due only later this month.  (All signs that CDs look headed for extinction. The way
things are going, there are hardly any record shops left, with
the U.K.-based  HMV  the latest to run into trouble.)  “MBV” has a bright blue sleeve mimicking the lurid pink of
“Loveless.” Like Prince, Shields has just tweaked the mix. Like
the Jesus and Mary Chain, there are great pop tunes and vocals
buried deep under a dense mesh of tremolo-crazy guitars, echoing
feedback and samples.  This is scary stuff, like they are coming through the wall
at you with a pneumatic drill at times. It’s a challenging
listen, often rewarding. I’m still finding my way into this: The
closing “Wonder 2” is outstanding and the rest isn’t far off.
Rating: ****.  ( Mark Beech  writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Russell  on architecture and
 Stephanie Green’s  Scene Last Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
 Mark Beech  in London at  mbeech@bloomberg.net  or
 http://twitter.com/home/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 