-- Putin Calls to Phase Out Gazprom Monopoly on LNG Export
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 2013-02-13T17:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/putin-set-to-discuss-ending-gazprom-s-monopoly-on-lng-exports.html
Russia’s President  Vladimir Putin 
called for a “gradual” end to  OAO Gazprom ’s monopoly on
exports of liquefied natural gas as  OAO Novatek  and the state-
owned  OAO Rosneft  seek the right to ship the fuel abroad.  “It’s necessary to think about gradual liberalization,”
Putin told an energy commission meeting with industry leaders
today outside Moscow. Russia risks losing LNG markets to its
international competitors unless the country acts, he said.  Putin needs to balance calls from Novatek, Russia’s second-
largest gas producer, and Rosneft to open exports and encourage
investment in new fields, with protecting government interests
represented by Gazprom. Russia is seeking routes to supply Asia,
where demand is growing, to counter weaker European markets. The
nation’s export pipelines supply Europe, while LNG can be sent
to Asia by cooling the gas to a liquid for shipment by tanker.  The national budget lost “10s of billions of rubles” when
exports to Europe through the pipelines declined in 2012, Putin
said. Russia, with just 3.6 percent of the world market for LNG,
depends on oil and gas sales for half of its budget revenue.  Gazprom, the biggest gas producer in the world, owns and
maintains Russia’s pipelines and defends the monopoly, saying
the arrangement underpins building and operating the network.
Putin gave the company an exclusive legal right to ship gas
abroad in 2006 to avoid undermining export prices.  Export Rights  “Because of limitations on LNG exports, Russia has already
lost a number of market opportunities,” Rosneft Chief Executive
Officer  Igor Sechin  said. “This trend may affect our position.
If we don’t take these markets, others will.”  Sechin is seeking export rights, and tax and customs breaks
for deposits off the shores of Russia and bordering areas, as
well as on the northern Yamal and Gydan peninsulas, to support
Russia’s position as the world’s largest energy supplier.  Rosneft’s projects in the Arctic Kara Sea, where it has a
venture with Exxon Mobil Corp., have the potential to produce
LNG, he said, adding that the proposed changes won’t hurt
Gazprom because they are aimed at different markets.  Rosneft and Exxon Mobil Corp. today agreed to consider
construction of an LNG plant in the Russian Far East, according
to an agreement signed following a meeting in Putin’s presence.  Novatek advanced 2.2 percent to 336.69 rubles by the close
in Moscow, while Rosneft climbed 3.8 percent to 263.76 rubles.  Novatek asked the government last year for an exemption to
spur development of the $20 billion Yamal LNG site. Gazprom had
agreed to sell gas from the project and take a sales commission.  Raise Financing  Direct exports to customers would make it easier to raise
funds and cut risk, Novatek CEO  Leonid Mikhelson   said  yesterday
in an interview with Handelsblatt.  “Novatek’s Yamal LNG really needs this road map to LNG
exports as soon as possible,”  Alexei Kokin , an oil and gas
analyst at UralSib Financial Corp., said by phone from Moscow.  The company needs contracts to raise financing for the
project and those deals depend on export rights, Kokin said.  Yamal LNG got state support in the form of tax breaks and
funds to build a port above the Arctic Circle. Gazprom controls
Russia’s only LNG plant, built by Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Mitsui
& Co. and Mitsubishi Corp. on Sakhalin Island north of Japan.  Giving Novatek LNG export rights would be “another
confirmation of the government’s commitment to the project,”
Goldman Sachs analysts led by  Geydar Mamedov  said in a note on
the company on Feb. 7. There is “a strong possibility” that
the government will decide in Novatek’s favor, they wrote.  TNK-BP  Russia probably won’t chip away at Gazprom’s monopoly
before the company’s 20th anniversary, to be celebrated at the
Kremlin this month, said  Valery Nesterov , a Sberbank Investment
Research analyst. “It would be politically incorrect.”  The government may make its decision within two months,
said a state official who backs an exemption to the monopoly,
asking not to be identified because the matter is private.  Rosneft, which is buying the TNK-BP oil venture from BP Plc
and a group of billionaires for $55 billion, plans to rival
Novatek in gas, and has a target to produce 112.5 billion cubic
meters by 2020, compared with Rosneft’s figure of 100 billion.  Russia may stop short of ending Gazprom’s monopoly and
grant LNG export permits for specific projects, Nesterov said.  Gazprom exports to Europe sank 7 percent to 138.8 billion
cubic meters in 2012, a company presentation showed. Gazprom
agreed to cut prices or strengthen the link to gas market rates
in many contracts with European clients in the past three years.
Customers such as  GDF Suez  SA sought more changes in January.  European Ties  Gazprom may be increasingly tied to sales to Europe, which
provides half its gas revenue. The Shtokman LNG project in the
Arctic has stalled on growing costs and technical challenges and
a decade of talks on piping gas to China failed to result in a
deal. LNG projects in Australia, North America and Mozambique
may shrink potential markets for the Russian company’s product.  “Time is pressing, you have to hit the window when there’s
still demand for Russian gas,” Nesterov said. LNG supplies from
Gazprom’s Russian rivals would add to pressure, VTB Capital
analysts led by  Dmitry Loukashov  said in a note on Feb. 7.  “Discussion of liberalization of LNG exports is gaining
momentum, and Rosneft’s support should hasten the decision-
making process,”  Alexander Kornilov  and  Ekaterina Malkova ,
analysts at Alfa Bank, wrote in a report on Feb. 7.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  