-- Qatar Boosts Stake in Tiffany to Amass $700 Million Shareholding
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2013-02-12T08:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/qatar-boosts-stake-in-tiffany-to-amass-700-million-shareholding.html
Qatar boosted holdings in Tiffany &
Co., the world’s second-largest luxury jewelry retailer, as the
country uses its energy wealth to snap up stakes in companies
such as  Credit Suisse Group AG,  Xstrata Plc and Volkswagen AG.  Qatar Investment Authority, the Persian Gulf nation's
sovereign wealth fund, increased its stake to 8.7 percent at the
end of last year, according to a regulatory filing. The fund
previously had a 7.8 percent stake, according to a Dec. 17
filing. Tiffany gained 0.3 percent to $63.10 yesterday in New
York Stock Exchange Trading, valuing the Persian Gulf nation’s
11 million-share stake at about $700 million.  Qatar is using wealth from the world’s third-largest gas
reserves to acquire assets across the globe and influence
takeover decisions. The Middle Eastern nation last year pushed
Glencore International Plc to boost its offer for Swiss miner
Xstrata Plc in a $31 billion deal. It also bought U.K. luxury-
good store Harrods for 1.5 billion pounds ($2.3 billion) in 2010
and holds stakes in companies ranging from Barclays Plc to
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd and retailer J Sainsbury Plc.  Tiffany, based in New York, said in January that full-year
earnings will be at the low end of its forecast after holiday
sales growth slowed in the Americas and Asia. The company had
already missed analysts’ income forecasts for four straight
quarters, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Qatar Investment Authority has $30 billion to invest, board
member  Hussain Al Abdulla  said in April. It is opportunistic and
doesn’t have any geographic, asset or currency allocation
targets, he said. Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim  Al Thani  said in October that the country is weighing a potential
stake in Morgan Stanley’s commodities unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shaji Mathew in Dubai at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  