-- Rajoy Resists Changes to Spanish Voting Law That Bolsters Power
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-02-12T12:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/rajoy-resists-changes-to-spanish-voting-law-that-bolsters-power.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
rejected calls by a rival to loosen control over his allies in
parliament, deepening divisions in the ruling party.  Speaking at a conference in Madrid today, Rajoy said,
“I’ll never change electoral law with a simple majority.”  Rajoy is digging in as a  recession  and corruption
allegations weaken support for his 14-month-old government.
 Esperanza Aguirre , a former minister who challenged Rajoy for
leadership of his People’s Party in 2008 and has led the
criticism of his handling of the graft allegations, called on
him to open up the voting system last week.  Under the current set-up, Rajoy names candidates and the
order in which they appear on the electoral lists, giving him
control over allocating jobs. Without the direct support of
voters, Spanish dissenters have no protection from their party
leaders, so parliamentary rebellions are unheard of.  Rajoy’s PP saw its support drop to 24 percent from 30
percent a month earlier in a poll by Metroscopia published by El
Pais on Feb. 3, wiping out its advantage over the opposition
Socialists. Metroscopia’s margin of error was 3.2 percentage
points.  El Pais, the biggest-selling daily newspaper, reported that
Rajoy and other senior PP officials received illegal cash
payments from former party treasurer  Luis Barcenas . Rajoy has
denied the claims in a televised statement.  Rajoy said critics of the status quo shouldn’t
underestimate the challenge of building a consensus in a country
that was torn apart by civil war in the 1930s and passed its
democratic constitution 35 years ago.  “You need to look at the context in which this was done,”
he said today. “We needed to bring together -- and we managed
to -- people who were returning from exile, who didn’t even live
in Spain, with people who had been ministers in the previous
regime.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  