-- Rajoy Says Spain Deficit Data to Show Unprecedented Efforts
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2013-02-12T09:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/rajoy-says-budget-data-show-spain-progressed-in-cutting-deficit.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
his People’s Party government last year achieved a significant
reduction of Spain’s  budget deficit  since replacing the
Socialists, even as he didn’t give a figure for the shortfall.  “Public deficit data for 2012 to be published in the
coming weeks will show unprecedented fiscal consolidation
efforts have been made,” Rajoy said during a news conference in
Madrid today. The budget cuts are of “extraordinary merit” in
times of recession have removed doubts about the sustainability
of Spanish public finances, he said.  Budget data will show how close Rajoy’s five rounds of
spending cuts and tax increases got the shortfall to a target
set at 6.3 percent of output for 2012 by euro-area finance
ministers in July.  Spain’s deficit goals are 4.5 percent of gross domestic
product for this year and 2.8 percent for 2014. The Bank of
Spain predicts the nation will miss its goals unless it steps up
the deepest budget cuts in its democratic history. On the brink
of a junk credit rating, Spain escaped a sovereign bailout last
year after the European Central Bank’s pledge to safeguard the
euro lowered borrowing costs.  Debt Auction  Spanish 10-year bond yields fell seven basis points to 5.36
percent at 10:32 a.m. in Madrid, as the Treasury prepared to
sell as much as 5.5 billion ($7.36 billion) euros of six-month
and 12-month bills. That compares with a euro-era high of 7.75
percent in July.  Spain’s Premier will meet ECB President  Mario Draghi  at 4
p.m. at his Moncloa Palace Madrid residence after he speaks to
lawmakers and reporters.  A five-year slump in the euro region’s fourth-largest
economy has led it to miss all its targets since 2009, when
overspending peaked at 11.2 percent of GDP.  Spain’s deficit was the second-largest in the region along
with Greece’s in 2011, with both nations at 9.4 percent. Ireland
had the biggest budget deficit in 2011.  Economists expect a Spanish budget gap of 8 percent in
2012, in line with the  European Commission’s forecast , including
European aid to recapitalize the banking sector accounting for
one percentage point.  Fiscal slippage has fueled a surge in Spain’s public debt
load which has more than doubled since the end of a real-estate
fueled boom in 2008. Eurostat forecasts it’ll overshoot the euro
region’s average next year, at 97.1 percent of GDP.  Budget Plan  While the Commission’s  last report  in November pointed to
risks in Rajoy’s 2013 budget plan and recommended more budget
cuts for 2014, European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  signaled on Jan. 28 he might seek to ease
austerity prescriptions for Spain.  The policy recommendations are due in May, after the
Commission updates its growth and deficit forecasts on Feb. 22,
and EU statistics agency Eurostat releases the first of its bi-
annual government debt and deficit estimates in April.  Economists including  Ricardo Santos  at BNP Paribas say
there is a risk Eurostat’s numbers will be worse than Spain’s
data this month. “History tells us deficit numbers tend to be
revised up, mostly as a result of late regional data, which tend
to show hefty arrears,” according to a note co-written by
Santos on Jan. 24.  Eurostat  reported  in August that “significant shortcomings
remain” in statistical reporting following an inspection. In
October, it  revised  the 2011 gap to 9.4 percent of GDP, compared
with Spain’s initial 8.5 percent estimate. It also raised its
2010 figure to 9.7 percent from 9.3 percent.  The 2010 change was mainly due to unpaid bills not having
been reported by regions and town halls, while the 2011 increase
also included the reclassification of  bank capital injections  as
their financial situation worsened, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  