-- Rand Worst Performer as Risk Demand Recedes After Nuclear Test
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-02-12T14:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/rand-hits-week-low-as-north-korea-nuclear-test-damps-risk-demand.html
The rand led declines against the
dollar in emerging-market currencies after North Korea tested a
nuclear weapon in defiance of the United Nations, prompting
investors to shun riskier assets.  South Africa’s currency slipped as much as 0.9 percent to
8.9908 per dollar, the weakest intraday level since Feb. 1. It
traded 0.7 percent down at 8.9703 as of 3:23 p.m. in
Johannesburg. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due
December 2026 climbed two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 7.33 percent.  The dollar strengthened while most developing-nation stocks
retreated after North Korea held a third nuclear test today,
roiling markets. The rand also weakened before the release of
data tomorrow that may show retail sales growth in South Africa
slowed, adding to evidence Africa’s biggest economy is stalling.  “There is a risk-off trade materialising globally as a
result of geo-political tensions,”  Mohammed Nalla , head of
strategic research at Nedbank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, said
by phone. The rand extended its decline as it weakened beyond a
key resistance level at 8.95 per dollar, he said.  The underground test was successful, the official Korean
Central News Agency said in a statement. South Korea’s Defense
Ministry estimated the yield at 6 to 7 kilotons. The atomic bomb
dropped on Hiroshima had an estimated yield of 15 kilotons.  “A resurgent dollar followed geopolitical tensions with
North Korea testing nuclear weapons,” Quinten Bertenshaw, an
analyst at ETM Analytics in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed
comments. “This has immediately been reflected in the rand as a
rotation to safety ensued.”  The rand is the second-worst performing major currency
after the yen as  consumer spending  is coming under pressure amid
mounting job losses and increased food and fuel costs.  Retail sales growth slowed to 1.6 percent in the year
through December, from 3.4 percent the month before, according
to the median estimate of 12 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Brand  in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  