-- TransCanada Profit Falls on Lower Natural Gas Shipments
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-02-12T13:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/transcanada-profit-falls-on-lower-natural-gas-shipments.html
TransCanada Corp. , the transporter
of 20 percent of North America’s natural gas, said fourth-
quarter profit fell 19 percent as shipments of the fuel on some
of its pipelines declined.  Net income dropped to C$306 million ($304 million), or 43
cents a share, from C$376 million, or 53 cents, a year earlier,
the Calgary-based company said in a statement on Marketwire
today. Excluding one-time items, per-share profit was 4 cents
less than the 49-cent average of 12 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  TransCanada is moving less gas on its pipelines because a
glut in North American supplies has reduced prices, resulting in
more of the fuel being kept in storage. U.S. imports of Canadian
gas fell 7 percent to 5.7 billion cubic feet a day during the
first nine months of 2012 from the same period a year earlier,
according to the  Energy Information Administration .  “Fourth-quarter results will continue to be challenged by
low contribution from the U.S.-based natural gas pipeline
business as well as by the impact of low U.S. northeast power
prices,”  Juan Plessis , an analyst at Canaccord Genuity in
Vancouver, wrote in a Jan. 28 note to clients. Two nuclear power
reactors that returned to service during the quarter operated at
less than full capacity, he wrote.  TransCanada expected “softer” earnings in 2012 due partly
to gas, reduced power prices and a warmer-than-average winter,
Chief Executive Officer  Russ Girling  said at a Jan. 24 investor
conference.  The company, which proposed the Keystone XL oil pipeline to
bring crude from the oil sands to the Gulf Coast, sees a U.S.
ruling on the $5.3 billion northern leg of the system in “a few
weeks to a couple of months,” Girling said in a Feb. 6
interview.  TransCanada released results before the start of regular
trading on North American markets. The company declined 1
percent to C$48.25 yesterday in Toronto. The shares, which have
eight buy, eight hold and one sell recommendation from analysts,
have risen 2.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  