-- Treasury Nominee Lew to Tell Senate U.S. Must Shun Sequester
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2013-02-12T23:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/treasury-nominee-lew-to-tell-senate-u-s-must-shun-sequester-1-.html
U.S. Treasury secretary nominee  Jack Lew  says the U.S. must avoid the automatic spending cuts
scheduled to take effect next month, saying they would impose
“self-inflicted wounds” on economic expansion.  Lew was commenting in written testimony prepared for
tomorrow’s hearing before the Senate Finance Committee, which is
considering his nomination to succeed  Timothy F. Geithner  as
head of the Treasury Department. The prepared testimony was
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Lew said the U.S. must move forward with deficit reduction
while leaving “sufficient room for critical investments.”  “We also have to avoid doing anything to degrade our
national security or derail the economic recovery through abrupt
moves in the short term,” Lew said. “That is why we cannot
allow the series of harmful automatic spending cuts known as the
sequester to go into effect on March 1.”  “These cuts would impose self-inflicted wounds to the
recovery and put far too many jobs and businesses at risk,” Lew
said.  President  Barack Obama  and Republicans are locked in a
standoff over how to avert $1.2 trillion in automatic spending
cuts scheduled to start taking effect on March 1 unless Congress
acts to stop or replace them. In addition, a temporary
suspension of the nation’s $16.4 trillion debt ceiling only runs
through May 18.  Shrink Deficit  “We must put our nation back on a path of fiscal
sustainability,” Lew said in the testimony prepared for
tomorrow. “And we can do even more to shrink the deficit over
the next decade through a balanced mix of spending reductions
and tax reforms, and sensible reforms to Medicare that will help
the program stay sound in the future.”  The U.S. must foster private-sector job creation and growth
while keeping the economy “resilient to headwinds from beyond
our shores,” Lew said in the prepared testimony.  “That means making it easier to sell American-made goods
abroad and expand manufacturing in the U.S,” Lew said. He said
the U.S. should work through organizations such as the Group of
20 nations “to bolster the international financial system and
promote global economic stability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Meera Louis  in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
 Ian Katz  in Washington at 
 katz2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  