-- Reckitt Benckiser Signs $482 Million Pact With Bristol-Myers
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2013-02-12T13:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/reckitt-benckiser-signs-482-million-otc-pact-with-bristol-myers.html
Reckitt Benckiser Plc , the maker of
Nurofen painkillers, entered a $482 million deal with
pharmaceutical maker  Bristol-Myers Squibb  Co. to license a
number of Latin American over-the-counter healthcare remedies as
it expands its presence in emerging markets.  Under the agreement, Reckitt Benckiser will license the
brands for three years, with an option to purchase them at the
end of the period, the Slough, England-based company said today
in a statement. The brands, which include cough medicine
Naldecon and painkiller Tempra, generated revenue of $102
million last year in countries including Brazil and Mexico. The
deal should add to earnings by 2014, according to the statement.  “This is a quite a small deal and the multiple is yet
again eye-watering at 4.7 times sales,”  Eamonn Ferry , an
analyst at Exane BNP Paribas, said in a note. “That said, it
makes a lot of strategic sense, Reckitt can bring a lot to the
table here, and it has been seeking a Latin American OTC asset
for several years.”  Reckitt Benckiser  gained  1.2 percent to 4,286 pence at 1:36
p.m. in London trading.  Chief Executive Officer  Rakesh Kapoor  is looking to expand
sales in markets such as Latin America as economic conditions
deteriorate in the company’s core European business, which
accounts for more than 40 percent of sales. Emerging markets
should generate about 50 percent of non-pharmaceutical sales by
2016, up from 42 percent in 2011, the company said last year.  Schiff Nutrition  The deal follows the $1.4 billion  acquisition  of Schiff
Nutrition International Inc. in December, which expanded its
business into vitamins and nutritional supplements. Since 2006,
Reckitt Benckiser has also bought Adams Respiratory Therapeutics
Inc. and Durex condom maker SSL International Plc.  “Reckitt Benckiser has been transforming itself from being
principally a European household-goods company into becoming a
global consumer-health company,” said  Andrew Wood , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein in Singapore. “Today’s deal, just like
the recent acquisition of Schiff Nutrition, is another step in
this process.”  Bristol-Myers wanted a licensing arrangement rather than an
outright sale of the brands, Reckitt Benckiser spokeswoman
 Andraea Dawson-Shepherd  said.  “This is the structure for the agreement that BMS was
offering,” Dawson-Shepherd said in an e-mail.  Jennifer Mauer , a
spokeswoman for Bristol-Myers Squibb, said in an e-mail that the
company was “pleased with this collaboration structure.”  The deal “creates a material consumer-healthcare platform,
infrastructure and distribution network for RB in both Brazil
and Mexico,” Kapoor said in the statement. “It is an important
step in building our consumer healthcare presence in Latin
American emerging markets.”  New York-based Bristol-Myers Squibb, the maker of anti-
stroke medication Plavix, will supply the products during the
so-called collaboration period, said Reckitt Benckiser, which is
due to report full-year results tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  