-- Renesas Falls Most in Four Months on Loss Forecast: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-02-12T09:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/renesas-falls-most-in-four-months-on-loss-forecast-tokyo-mover.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. , the
Japanese chipmaker getting a bailout from a state-backed fund,
plunged the most in more than four months in Tokyo trading after
widening its full-year loss forecast.  The stock  tumbled  8.4 percent to close at 262 yen, the
biggest decline since Sept. 25. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average
rose 1.9 percent.  Renesas  on Feb. 8 widened its annual  loss  forecast to 176
billion yen ($1.9 billion) amid a slowdown in TV sales hitting
demand for system LSI chips and weaker-than-expected sales to
automakers. The Kawasaki, Japan-based company has also announced
more than 10,500  job  cuts since July and plans to sell 150
billion yen of new  shares  to investors led by state-backed
 Innovation Network Corp. of Japan .  “The fourth quarter will be a pivotal quarter in which
earnings improvement is critical,”  Yukihiko Shimada , an analyst
at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., said in a Feb. 8 note. The
company’s goals in the quarter “look challenging,” said the
analyst, who reiterated an underperform  rating  and a 250 yen
target price.  Renesas cut its full-year  sales  forecast to 770 billion yen
from 820 billion yen. It predicted an operating loss, or sales
minus the cost of goods sold and selling, general and
administrative expenses, of 26 billion yen, compared with the
previous target of a 21 billion-yen profit. The company had
earlier expected a loss of 150 billion yen in the year ending
March.  Job Cuts  Renesas last month announced plans to shed more than 3,000
workers following the removal of about 7,500 positions through a
buyout program in October. In total, job losses amount to about
25 percent of the workforce. The company also said last month it
will sell three factories to J-Devices Corp.  INCJ will hold 69 percent of Renesas after the new share
sale. The chipmaker will use the money from the state-backed
fund and investors including  Toyota Motor Corp.  and Nissan Motor
Co. to develop more advanced microcontrollers used in cars and
TVs. It may also get another 50 billion yen from INCJ.  Renesas  is currently 91 percent owned by NEC Corp., Hitachi
Ltd. and Mitsubishi Electric Corp., which helped form the
company through the merger of various chip-making businesses.
Fujitsu Ltd. and Panasonic Corp. last week announced plans to
combine their LSI chip businesses in a deal that may get funding
from the state-backed Development Bank of Japan.  The “door is open” for Renesas to join the venture,
according to Fujitsu President Masami Yamamoto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Naoko Fujimura  in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  