-- Republicans Criticize Efforts to Pass New Gun Regulations
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2013-02-12T18:34:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/republicans-criticize-efforts-to-pass-new-gun-regulations.html
Republican senators challenged
efforts to pass new U.S. gun laws, saying at a Judiciary
Committee hearing that the government should work on enforcing
existing regulations.  Freshman Senator  Ted Cruz  of Texas was the first of several
Republicans at the hearing today to say Congress shouldn’t focus
on advancing legislation that limits access to military-style
assault weapons and the high-capacity magazines used in many
recent mass shootings in the U.S.  “Stripping the constitutional rights of law-abiding
citizens does nothing to prevent criminals from carrying out a
violent crime,” Cruz said at the panel’s second hearing on gun
violence since the Dec. 14 shootings in Newtown, Connecticut, in
which 20 children and six adults were killed. “Law enforcement
has been failing. We should be working to fix that problem.”  As Congress debates new gun restrictions, Republicans are
laying down markers before President  Barack Obama  delivers his
State of the Union speech tonight, during which he’s likely to
underscore his own proposals.  “We’ve got our priorities wrong,” Senator  Lindsey Graham ,
a South Carolina Republican, said at the hearing. “We should
take the current law and enforce it.”  Senator  John Cornyn  of Texas said “we need to look at laws
that are already on the books.”  Background Checks  In the face of such resistance, advocates for stricter gun
laws are pressing for enough bipartisan support to advance new
laws on background checks.  A number of Democrats at the hearing and U.S. Attorney
 Timothy Heaphy  of Virginia, the main witness to testify, pushed
for legislation that would expand background checks for gun
buyers to keep weapons from criminals and the mentally ill.  House Democrats last week made recommendations that mirror
Obama’s gun-control proposals, including a ban on assault
weapons and a 10-round limit on ammunition magazines. They also
called for background checks for almost all gun buyers and for
requiring states to include more mental health information in
the national criminal background database.  The U.S. needs to “provide reasonable restrictions to keep
dangerous weapons” out of the hands of criminals, Heaphy said.
“Those acts from their past remove their Second Amendment
right.”  At the same time, he said, “I can’t reiterate strongly
enough” that the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding
citizens are under no threat.  Background Checks  Democrats on the panel spoke in support of restrictions,
especially tightening background checks for gun buyers.  “We need to improve and expand our background check
system,” said Senator  Al Franken  of Minnesota. “There’s a
consensus being built around the idea that we should do a
background check on all purchases of guns.”  Heaphy cited an exception that allows some purchasers at
private gun shows to avoid background checks.  “That is a gaping hole in the system,” he said. “We have
to do what we can on the front end” to prevent criminals from
gaining access to guns.  Attending the hearing were the families of victims of gun
violence, some of whom said they were disappointed with
lawmakers’ response after the shootings at Newtown and elsewhere
that gained national attention.  “They’re trying to make an issue that is so personal to us
political,” said Tiffany Rice, the mother of a 14-year-old boy,
Dajae Coleman, who was killed by gunfire walking home from a
party in Evanston, Illinois, in September. “I don’t understand
why it’s so hard” to pass laws to limit criminal access to
guns, she said.  Some House Republicans, many from urban areas and states
such as Virginia that have been sites of mass shootings, are
showing a willingness to thwart the National Rifle Association’s
opposition to broadening background checks for gun purchases. A
 Quinnipiac University poll  released on Feb. 7 found more than
nine in 10 Americans support universal background checks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  