-- Retail Gasoline Sets Season Record as Plants Shut, Oil Rises
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-02-12T20:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/retail-gasoline-sets-seasonal-record-as-plants-shut-oil-surges.html
Retail gasoline prices in the U.S.
rose to a record for this time of year amid a decline in
refinery production because of breakdowns and seasonal
maintenance and an eight-week rally in crude futures.  Regular gasoline in the U.S. climbed 7.3 cents, or 2.1
percent, from a week earlier to $3.611 a gallon yesterday, the
highest level since Oct. 22 and a record for this  time  of year,
according to data compiled by the Energy Information
Administration, an Energy Department agency. West Texas
Intermediate oil futures have gained more than $10 a barrel
since mid-December and on Feb. 1 capped the longest stretch of
weekly advances in more than eight years.  Retail gasoline  has also climbed for eight straight weeks
as refiners make up for the rise in crude costs. Gasoline
production in the U.S. is at a three-week low as plants
including  Chevron Corp. ’s  El Segundo  refinery near Los Angeles
and  LyondellBasell Industries NV ’s Houston site in Texas perform
maintenance turnarounds.  “Pick a coast, and we have refineries down, and then you
had the price of crude soar,”  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst
at Prices Futures Group in Chicago, said by telephone yesterday.
“Supplies are more than ample right now, and it seems crude
prices should continue to work lower. That and refineries coming
off maintenance, should start to bring down gasoline.”  Crude Inventories  Crude stockpiles in the U.S. increased 0.7 percent to 371.7
million barrels in the seven days ended Feb. 1, the EIA said
Feb. 6. They probably added another 2.2 million last week,
according to the median of 10 analyst estimates before the
agency’s next report tomorrow.  Oil for March delivery gained 48 cents to settle at $97.51
a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the highest price
since Feb. 1, after the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries raised its demand forecast.  Gasoline supplies rose 1.74 million barrels, or 0.8
percent, to 234 million in the week ended Feb. 1, the EIA data
showed. Inventories probably increased 500,000 barrels last week
to 234.5 million, the Bloomberg survey shows.  Output of the motor-fuel dropped 3.3 percent from the week
before to 8.76 million barrels a day in the period ended Feb. 1,
the lowest level since Jan. 11.  Consumption  increased 1.2
percent to 8.42 million barrels a day in the four weeks to Feb.
1, the EIA said.  Retail Gasoline  Retail gasoline prices rose yesterday in all five regions
of the U.S., the agency said. The Rocky Mountain area saw the
biggest gain, of 13 cents, to $3.274 a gallon.  HollyFrontier Corp .’s 52,000-barrel-a-day  Cheyenne  refinery
in Wyoming shut a delayed coker unit on Jan. 16 after a fire.
Less than a week earlier, Chevron’s  Salt Lake City  refinery in
Utah shut multiple units after an electrical failure.  Regular gasoline on the U.S. West Coast rose 12.9 cents
yesterday to $3.867 a gallon, the highest average price in the
U.S. Chevron,  BP Plc ,  Tesoro Corp.  and  Valero Energy Corp.  have
all shut process units at their refineries in Southern
California for planned repairs.  Gasoline gained the least on the Gulf Coast, where it
increased 5.1 cents to $3.383 a gallon.  Lyondell’s 265,000-barrel-a-day  Houston  refinery began a
turnaround earlier this month on a crude unit and a coker that’s
expected to be completed before the end of March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  