-- Romania’s Leu Set for Month-Low as Central Bank Eases Liquidity
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2013-02-12T15:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/romania-s-leu-set-for-month-low-as-central-bank-eases-liquidity.html
The leu headed for the lowest level
in a month after the Romanian central bank boosted currency
supply through weekly repurchase operations and inflation
accelerated more than forecast in January.  The leu, which ended its longest stretch of losses since
Jan. 1 by remaining little changed yesterday, resumed its
decline after the central bank lifted a limit on the size of its
repo agreement auctions. Inflation quickened to 6 percent in
January, beating the 5.4 percent median estimate of 15
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The central bank stepped up again the repo amount and the
allocation rate was the highest since November, therefore we
expect more easing in interbank rates which is not supportive
for the leu,” OTP Bank Romania SA analysts including Bucharest-
based  Mihaela Neagu  wrote in a note today.  The leu weakened 0.2 percent to 4.4032 per euro by 5 p.m.
in Bucharest, the lowest on a closing basis since Jan. 8,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It lost 0.4 percent
this month, the worst performance among eastern European
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei increased the limit to 11
billion lei ($3.3 billion) from 10 billion lei a week earlier as
commercial banks’ demand for the leu reached 33 billion lei. The
bank started capping the repo amount on Oct.8 to help shore up
the currency and cut supply to as low as 4 billion lei.  “At 4.4 per euro, the leu offers a lot of value,”  Esther Law , a senior emerging-market strategist in London, at Societe
Generale SA, wrote in a note today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
 Irina Savu  in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  