-- Russia Resists Calls to Cut as Inflation Concerns Grow
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-02-12T11:45:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/russia-s-central-bank-leaves-refinancing-rate-unchanged-at-8-25-.html
Russia’s central bank refrained from
easing borrowing costs after inflation surged to a 15-month
high, warning of the threat of faster price growth and defying
government calls for lower rates to support the slowing economy.  Bank Rossii held the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent for a
fifth month at a meeting in Moscow today, it said in a  statement 
on its website. The move was forecast by 21 of 22 economists in
a Bloomberg  survey . Price growth will probably remain above the
upper limit of this year’s 5 percent to 6 percent target range
until the second half, a prolonged run that risks heightening
expectations of higher inflation, according to the statement.  Policy makers are resisting growing government pressure to
ease monetary policy after  economic growth  last year slowed to
3.4 percent, the weakest since a 2009 slump. The central bank
has a free hand to raise or lower borrowing costs and relies
only on its own forecasts in steering policy, First Deputy
Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  has said.  “It’s comforting to see that the central bank was able to
withstand the direct political pressure to ease monetary
policy,”  Vladimir Tikhomirov , chief economist at Otkritie
Financial Corp., said in a telephone interview. “The change in
the statement’s tone reflects what Ulyukayev said before the
meeting: that the central bank has the freedom to move rates
either up or down.”  The ruble strengthened 0.3 percent to 30.0860 against the
dollar at 3:37 p.m. in Moscow. The Micex Index of 50 stocks
climbed less than 0.1 percent to 1,517.12.  Tightening ‘Hint’  “The statement puts a greater emphasis on inflationary
risks than risks of slower economic growth,”  Alexander Morozov ,
chief economist for Russia at HSBC Holdings Plc in Moscow, said
by phone. “It’s a hint at the potential tightening of policy,
especially since the central bank is saying that inflation will
be above the target range in the first half.”  While industry remains weak and investment growth is
slowing, economic output remains near full capacity, according
to the statement. The tight labor market and consumer lending
will help support demand, Bank Rossii said.  The central bank kept the overnight and one-week repurchase
rates used to provide banks with cash at 5.5 percent, with the
overnight deposit rate held at 4.5 percent, also in line with
forecasts.  Government Pressure  Government officials including First Deputy Prime Minister
 Igor Shuvalov  and Finance Minister  Anton Siluanov  have joined
the Economy Ministry in the last month in saying interest rates
should be reduced because they’re smothering growth. President
 Vladimir Putin  is required to nominate a new central bank chief
three months before Chairman  Sergey Ignatiev ’s third and final
term ends in June.  Ulyukayev said Jan. 16 that output is near potential and
easing borrowing costs would be counter-productive.  “Our relations with the government are just as they should
be, and the government respects the central bank’s independence
on monetary policy,” Ulyukayev said Feb. 6. “We’re going to
make a decision based on our understanding, after having
listened to all the arguments, including from our respected
colleagues in the government.”  Faster Inflation  Consumer prices  rose 7.1 percent in January from a year
earlier, which was higher than all 21 forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey. Inflation may accelerate to 7.3 percent to 7.4 percent
in February from a year earlier, the Economy Ministry said in a
 report  yesterday.  Economic growth slowed to 2.4 percent from a year earlier
in the fourth quarter, according to a Bloomberg  survey , less
than half the annual target set by Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev .  The central bank set all reserve requirements for
commercial lenders at 4.25 percent, starting next month,
according to the statement. Mandatory ratios for liabilities to
non-resident companies had been 5.5 percent since April 1, 2011,
while the requirement for domestic liabilities had been at 4
percent.  The change is “neutral” for monetary policy and the
financial industry, Bank Rossii said, adding that the ratios
were less useful for influencing capital flows as the ruble
moves toward a free float.  No Guidance  Bank Rossii also refrained from offering guidance on
whether it sees market rates as appropriate. Last month, the
central bank dropped wording that rates were suitable for the
“nearest future,” which Ulyukayev has said means a change to
rates is possible as early as the next meeting.  “The lack of that key phrase means that something needs to
happen with rates,”  Vladimir Osakovskiy , chief economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Moscow, said by telephone
today.  “The slowing economy we’re seeing reduces the inflationary
risks and creates a good reason to start cuts,” he said.
“Still, inflation remains above forecast. The central bank
isn’t likely to lower rates in the nearest future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  