-- Russia Illicit Outflow Reached $212 Billion, Study Says
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-02-12T23:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/russia-illicit-outflow-reached-212-billion-study-says.html
Illicit capital outflows from Russia
were as much as $211.5 billion between 1994 and 2011 as the
underground economy moved funds abroad, according to Global
Financial Integrity, a group that studies financial flows.  Total illicit outflows were $9.99 billion in 2011, down
from a peak of $41.6 billion in 2010, Washington-based GFI said
in a report released today. The study begins in 1994, the first
year for which Russian balance-of-payments data are available.  Russia is “the most opaque economy we have analyzed,” and
the data probably underestimate the real scale of illicit
outflows,  Raymond Baker , GFI’s director, said in a note
accompanying the report. “By utilizing their own pocket banks
to handle the transactions, Russian corporations have been able
to transfer hundreds of billions of dollars out of their
country.”  Russia will host finance ministers and central bankers from
the Group of 20 in Moscow this week. One of the country’s three
top  priorities  for the talks will be “growth through trust and
transparency,” according to Russia’s G-20 presidency page.  “There are important and serious security aspects of weak
overall governance that the authorities should heed in order to
strengthen national security,” Dev Kar and Sarah Freitas,
economists at GFI, wrote in the report. “The massive illicit
flows from Russia and how they both drive and are driven by its
huge underground economy are symptomatic of weak overall
governance.”  ‘Bribing, Kickbacks’  Proposals such as President  Vladimir Putin ’s plan to ban
officials from owning bank accounts abroad “are just a Band-
Aid,” Kar said in a telephone interview yesterday. “It’s a
combination of a lot of different factors: bribing, kickbacks,
corruption in general.”  Based on estimates of the flows, Russia’s underground
economy was probably worth 19 trillion rubles ($632 billion) in
2011, or 35 percent of gross domestic product. While rising in
absolute terms, the figure has fallen from 77 percent of GDP in
1994 and tumbled to as low as 28 percent in 2009 and 2010,
according to the report.  “The problem is making lasting improvements in
governance,” Kar said. “You have to have sustained progress,
starting from the top.”  The combined outflow figure includes $135 billion of hot
money, derived from reported net errors and omissions in the
balance of payments. The other $76.5 billion is from so-called
trade misinvoicing, which involves a company undercharging for
exports or overpaying for imports, usually to a related company,
to hide capital flows, according to the report.  “This indicates that the proceeds of bribery, kickbacks
and other illegal transactions are primarily transferred out of
the country through unrecorded banking transactions,” according
to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  