-- Russia’s $50 Billion Olympics
-- B y   L e o n i d   B e r s h i d s k y
-- 2013-02-12T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/russia-s-50-billion-olympics.html
For President  Vladimir Putin , an
accomplished athlete, winning Russia’s bid for the 2014 Winter
Olympics was a matter of personal as well as national prestige.
As the date approaches, the event is also becoming a symbol of
Russian officialdom’s capacity for profligacy, procrastination
and intrigue.  Back in 2007, when Russia won the right to host the games
in the Black Sea resort town of Sochi, the projected bill was
313.9 billion rubles ($12.2 billion at the July 2007 exchange
rate). In 2010, Russia’s ministry of regional development
estimated the cost at 950 billion rubles ($30.6 billion at the
time). This month, when Putin inspected the huge construction
site in Sochi, the official estimate had already passed the 1.5
trillion ruble mark (about $50 billion), making next year’s
extravaganza the most expensive Olympics ever.  “So when is this supposed to be finished?” Putin  asked ,
gazing down at a new ski jumping hill. His questioning led him
to the conclusion that the deadline had shifted to July 2013
from June 2011, that the budget had been exceeded by a factor of
nearly seven, and that the person responsible was  Akhmed Bilalov , deputy head of Russia’s Olympic Committee and until
recently head of the company charged with building the jumping
hill.  Bilalov, an influential businessman from the neighboring
region of Dagestan, was immediately fired from the Olympic
Committee -- a development that quickly became the subject of
political speculation. Some noted that Bilalov’s involvement
with the Sochi project had been sanctioned by former president
and current Prime Minister  Dmitri Medvedev , who, it is rumored,
has fallen into disfavor with his old friend and mentor, Putin.
Others focused on the complicated relationships within the pool
of companies with access to Olympic construction contracts.  “A whole crowd of Olympic contractors of the same kind was
standing behind Putin’s back as he chewed out Bilalov,”
journalist Andrei Malosolov  pointed out  on sports.ru. “Have they
done any better? Have they saved an extra cent for the
government?”  Bilalov took his dismissal in stride, responding on
 Facebook  that he was proud of the jumping hill project and
posting a link to a  TV skit  about Sochi organizing committee
members divvying up government cash.  Putin, for his part, contented himself with just one
scapegoat. “On the whole, the work progresses in a satisfactory
manner,” he  declared . “There are problems, missed deadlines and
questions concerning the cost of certain venues. I hope this can
all be resolved in a timely manner.” He promised to return for
further inspections in September 2013 and January 2014.  Bloggers calculated that, since the three quarters of the
1.5-trillion-ruble budget is already spent, each remaining day
until the opening ceremony will cost Russia a further 1.05
billion rubles, or $35 million. “This number is grand,”  marveled 
journalist Alexander Kiyatkin on Slon.ru. “It stands alone.”  The consensus among bloggers and journalists covering the
Olympic spend-fest is that most of the money is being
misappropriated. “The scale on which funds disappear is directly
proportional to the scale of the project,” Kirill Rogov  wrote  in
the newspaper Novaya Gazeta. “If for smaller projects one can
still count on the ’golden standard’ of 30 percent theft, for
large ones it is likely to be 60 to 70 percent.”  “The machine appropriating government funds earmarked for
mega-projects has reached incredible maturity and gained
colossal political influence,” Rogov wrote. “It cares nothing
for all-powerful Putin’s ire, and the ire itself is somewhat
cautious and less than confident.”  There is no definitive proof of illegal activity. It does,
however, defy comprehension that the Sochi winter games can cost
2.5 times as much as the 2012 summer Olympics in London. Anti-
Putin opposition leader  Alexei Navalny   pointed out  that the
amount overspent on the jumping hill alone would be enough to
finance free attendance for every guest of the Olympics.  It is hard to resist the temptation to calculate what else
could be done with the money. Blogger Yegor Bychkov, for
example,  figured  that each of Russia’s 1,100 cities and towns
could get a new public swimming pool, an ice hockey arena and a
soccer stadium. And there would still be money left over to buy
every Russian male aged 5 to 25 a soccer ball, a basketball and
other sports-related goodies.  Instead, Russia will continue shelling out funds to hold a
winter sports competition in one of its warmest corners. And
Putin will see to it that, as he  put it , “this difficult task
facing the nation is carried out in the best possible way.”  (Leonid Bershidsky, an editor and novelist, is Moscow
correspondent for World View. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:  bershidsky@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Mark
Whitehouse at  mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 