-- Russia to Mediate in Bahrain Talks Aimed at Ending Unrest
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-02-12T14:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/russia-to-mediate-in-bahrain-talks-aimed-at-ending-unrest.html
Russia promised to mediate between
Bahrain’s ruling Sunni Muslim royal family and the majority
Shiite opposition in talks aimed at ending two years of unrest
in the Gulf country neighboring Saudi Arabia.  Bahrain’s largest Shiite political group, Al-Wefaq, took
part in a round of national dialogue with the authorities on
Feb. 10 in the capital, Manama, two days after the group’s
secretary-general, Ali Salman, held talks in Moscow with Deputy
Foreign Minister  Mikhail Bogdanov . Also on Feb. 8, Bogdanov met
Bahrain’s ambassador to Russia, Hashim Hasan Al Bash.  “Russia will continue to hold contacts with the kingdom’s
leaders as well as representatives of opposition groups, in firm
support of efforts to resolve internal problems through a
national consensus in the interests of all Bahrainis,” the
Foreign Ministry in Moscow said in an e-mailed statement today.  Russia is also seeking to help broker a settlement in
Soviet-era ally Syria, where President  Bashar al-Assad  is
fighting an almost two-year insurgency. The mainly Sunni Syrian
opposition, which had refused to negotiate with Assad’s
government led by Alawites affiliated to Shiite Islam, is now
offering dialogue.  “We are certain that it’s possible, with enough political
will, to ease the tensions and resolve the causes of the
conflict in Bahrain as well as in other countries in the
region,” the Russian foreign ministry said.  Mass Rallies  Tensions have simmered in the island nation since the
government cracked down on mass protests in 2011 by mostly
Shiite demonstrators demanding democracy and equal rights. At
least 35 people were killed between Feb. 14 and April 15, 2011,
according to the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry,
which investigated the unrest.  Small-scale protests still take place daily in Shiite
villages and sometimes spill over into Manama. Saudi Arabia and
Gulf allies, which accuse Shiite-led Iran of seeking to foment
unrest in Bahrain and elsewhere in the region, sent troops to
help put down the 2011 protests.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  