-- S&P Hires Top Banking Lobbyist to Run Global Policy Operations
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-02-12T22:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/s-p-hires-top-banking-lobbyist-to-run-global-policy-operations.html
Standard & Poor’s, the  McGraw-Hill
Cos . unit facing a $5 billion lawsuit from the U.S. Justice
Department, hired one of Wall Street’s top lobbyists to run
its global regulatory and policy operations.  Courtney Geduldig, a former Republican staff member of the
U.S. Senate Banking Committee, will join S&P on March 1 as a
vice president. She will help S&P navigate new financial rules
around the world.  Known on Capitol Hill for her bipartisan relationships,
Geduldig has been the head lobbyist for the  Financial Services
Forum , a trade association that represents the chief executive
officers of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,
 Citigroup Inc.  and other large financial companies.  Geduldig, in a statement, said she was “very pleased to be
joining an exemplary team at S&P.”  S&P and the other major credit rating firms, including
 Moody’s Corp.  and Fitch Ratings, are under pressure from
regulators around the world after they gave top grades to
securities that later soured and helped cause the 2008 financial
crisis. The Justice Department suit is the first U.S. federal
action against one of the three major credit rating companies.  The New York-based company said in its earnings statement
released today that the Justice Department suit, which contends
the company knowingly inflated ratings on certain collateralized
debt obligations, “is entirely without factual or legal merit
and that the company has very strong defenses against this and
all pending litigation.”  Global Role  The hiring of Geduldig is unrelated to the lawsuit and has
been in the works for months, according to  Catherine Mathis , an
S&P spokeswoman.  Geduldig’s new role will go beyond Washington, as the
ratings company faces new regulations throughout Europe, Japan
and Australia. A lawyer who also worked at the Treasury
Department during President  George W. Bush ’s administration, she
will develop and coordinate the company’s strategy in each of
the new regulatory regimes, Mathis said.  “We’re very excited and think she’s terrific,” Mathis
said in a telephone interview. “She will be a real asset to the
organization.”  Geduldig, 37, left Capitol Hill in 2010, after working as
Tennessee Republican Senator  Bob Corker ’s chief financial
counsel throughout the debate over the Dodd-Frank Act. The law,
which re-wrote financial regulation, set new rules for credit
ratings companies like S&P, New York-based Moody’s and Fitch,
which is half-owned by Fimalac SA of Paris and half-owned by
Hearst Corp.  At the Forum, Geduldig has worked on proposals to change
Dodd-Frank, including modifying its ban on proprietary trading
and fighting efforts in Congress to break up the largest banks.  “Courtney has served the Forum with remarkable
distinction,” said  Rob Nichols , the group’s president. “S&P is
fortunate to have her leadership.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  