-- SAC Is Said to Reopen as Redemption Deadline Approaches
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-02-13T16:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/sac-is-said-to-reopen-as-redemption-deadline-approaches.html
(Corrects name of network in last paragraph of story
originally published Feb. 12.)  Steven Cohen ’s SAC Capital
Management LP is opening its main hedge fund to new investments
after almost two years as a deadline for clients to redeem
approaches, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The $14 billion SAC, whose clients have until Feb. 14 to
ask to pull money from the fund, isn’t actively marketing it,
said the person, who asked not to be named because the firm is
private. The fund has been soft-closed to new investments since
mid-2011, meaning it has selectively taken in money, mostly to
accommodate current clients, according to the person.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission told SAC in
November that it is considering pursuing civil fraud claims
related to alleged insider trading in two drugmakers by a former
SAC portfolio manager. Prosecutors say Cohen, 56, discussed the
stocks with the trader, the first time government officials have
linked him to a transaction at the center of an insider-trading
case.  This week’s deadline applies to clients asking to pull
money from the fund for the quarter ending March 31. SAC
executives have told employees that it expects investors to
request redemptions of about $1 billion, a person familiar with
the Stamford, Connecticut-based firm said last month. SAC allows
investors to take out 25 percent of their capital in a quarter,
meaning the withdrawals from the fund would be about $250
million for March 31.  Jonathan Gasthalter , a spokesman for SAC, declined to
comment on the reopening, which was reported by Fox Business
Network earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  