-- Senate Democrats to Brief Obama on U.S. Immigration Talks
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-02-13T03:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/senate-democrats-to-brief-obama-on-u-s-immigration-talks.html
The four Democratic members of a
bipartisan Senate group crafting a rewrite of U.S. immigration
law will brief President  Barack Obama  on the status of their
efforts, a Senate Democratic aide said.  Senators  Richard Durbin  of Illinois,  Charles Schumer  of New
York,  Bob Menendez  of New Jersey and  Michael Bennet  of Colorado
will update Obama at a White House meeting scheduled for
tomorrow afternoon, said the aide, who asked for anonymity
because the gathering has yet to be announced.  Obama, who won the support of 71 percent of Hispanics who
voted in November, has said a rewrite of immigration laws is a
second-term priority. The bipartisan Senate group last month
released a plan to allow a path to citizenship for 11 million
undocumented immigrants in the U.S. only after measurable
increases in border security are achieved.  The White House meeting will follow a Judiciary Committee
hearing tomorrow on immigration policy, at which Homeland
Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  will testify.  Judiciary Chairman  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, plans
to say at the hearing that a proposal “must include a fair and
straightforward path to citizenship.”  ‘False Promises’  “I am troubled by any proposal that contains false
promises in which citizenship is always over the next
mountain,” Leahy will say, according to prepared remarks. “I
want the pathway to be clear and the goal of citizenship
attainable.”  Schumer has said the bipartisan group is seeking to unveil
its proposal in March with Judiciary Committee action to follow.
Schumer said he wants to see Senate floor action before
Congress’s August recess.  In his State of the Union address tonight, Obama called on
Congress to pass a new immigration law that increases border
security and creates a path to citizenship.  “We know what needs to be done,” Obama said. “As we
speak, bipartisan groups in both chambers are working diligently
to draft a bill, and I applaud their efforts. Now let’s get this
done. Send me a comprehensive immigration reform bill in the
next few months, and I will sign it right away.”  Republicans have put a higher priority on securing the
borders from illegal migrants and providing visas for high-
technology immigrants.  ‘Best and Brightest’  “We can also help grow our economy if we have a legal
immigration system that allows us to attract and assimilate the
world’s best and brightest,” Senator  Marco Rubio , of Florida,
said in his party’s response to Obama’s address.  “We need a responsible, permanent solution to the problem
of those who are here illegally,” Rubio, one of four
Republicans in the bipartisan group, said. “But first, we must
follow through on the broken promises of the past to secure our
borders and enforce our laws.”  A  Washington Post poll  conducted Jan. 31-Feb. 10 showed
support for a path to citizenship declines when Obama is
associated with the effort.  Seven in 10 people polled said they would support a path to
citizenship, including 60 percent of Republicans. Support
dropped to 59 percent overall, and 39 percent among Republicans,
when the same question was asked of a separate sample of
respondents with Obama’s name attached to it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  