-- Shell Sends Alaskan Rigs for Repairs, Clouding Work Outlook
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-02-12T17:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/shell-sends-alaska-rigs-to-asia-yards-clouding-drilling-outlook.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc  sent two of
its drill rigs in Alaska to Asian shipyards for repair, casting
doubt over prospects for exploration in the Arctic this year.  The Kulluk, damaged when it ran aground six weeks ago, will
be towed to a dry dock in Asia, Europe’s biggest oil company
said today in a statement. The Noble Discoverer will go to a
shipyard in Korea. The outcome of inspections and any repairs
will determine when they return to service, the company said.  Shell had spent about $4.5 billion in the past seven years
seeking to drill in Alaskan waters before the Kulluk broke free
of a tugboat in a storm on Dec. 31 and ended up stranded on an
uninhabited island. The Noble Discoverer slipped its mooring in
the Aleutian Islands in July and drifted toward the shore.  “We have not made any final decision on 2013 drilling,”
said spokesman  Jonathan French . “Shell remains committed to
safely exploring for Alaska’s offshore energy resources.”  Shell rose 0.7 percent to 2,162 pence in London.  The company’s work was also set back when a containment
dome designed to cap oil spills had difficulty getting U.S.
certification and was damaged during tests in September.  Shell is being “very cautious” in the environmentally
sensitive region and the two rigs would need more work to be
ready for the 2013 season, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Voser 
said Jan. 31. The producer missed fourth-quarter estimates for
earnings on higher costs for bringing oil and gas to production.  60-Day Review  U.S. Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  ordered a 60-day review
of Shell’s activities on Jan. 8. The company’s “mishaps” may
keep the company from continuing its work this year, he said.  Oil prices higher than $100 a barrel and receding Arctic
sea ice, which last year shrank to a record in the annual melt
season, have sparked a race to explore for untapped oil and gas
in the waters off Greenland, Alaska and Russia. The push has
raised concerns that spills will be harder to clean up in the
harsh conditions as oil takes longer to decompose in the cold.  Environmental groups said Jan. 3 they would ask President
Barack Obama to suspend current and pending Arctic drilling
permits until operators prove they can work safely.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency issued a notice to
Shell last month saying operating the Kulluk while drilling in
the Arctic Ocean violated its permit under the Clean Air Act.
Each violation can mean a penalty of $37,500 a day, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  