-- Slovenian Rating Cut to A- by S&P on Banking Bailout
-- B y   D a v e   L i e d t k a   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2013-02-13T12:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/slovenian-rating-cut-to-a-by-s-p-on-banking-bailout.html
Slovenia’s credit rating was cut to
A- as the government’s announced support for state-owned banks
will lead to higher-than-previously forecast debt, Standard &
Poor’s said.  The rating was reduced from A, S&P said in a statement late
yesterday. The outlook on the nation’s long-term rating is
stable. The A- assessment is on a par with Poland and Malaysia.  “The downgrade reflects Slovenia’s higher-than-anticipated
debt burden, due to its announced support of its state-owned
banks,” S&P said in the statement. “We also observe rising
policy-implementation risks to resolving economic and fiscal
pressures.”  Slovenia, on the brink of becoming the sixth euro member to
ask for a bailout, has drafted a 4 billion-euro ($5.4 billion)
bank recapitalization plan that would take up bad loans from
ailing lenders. The proposal may be derailed by early elections
as a political crisis deepens over corruption allegations
against Prime Minister  Janez Jansa .  The yield on the nation’s dollar-denominated debt maturing
in 2022 dropped 9 basis points from yesterday to 5.049 percent
at 12:33 p.m. in Ljubljana, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Debt Increase  Slovenia’s public debt rose to about 48 percent of gross
domestic product last year from 16 percent in 2008, a year after
the former Yugoslav nation adopted the euro. Government support
of the state-controlled banks at the level likely to be needed
will increase the debt ratio to 59 percent at the end of 2013,
S&P said.  The Adriatic nation’s largest state-controlled banks,
including Nova Ljubljanska Banka d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka
Maribor  d.d., will probably report a fourth consecutive year of
losses as a wave of bankruptcies increases the level of bad
loans. Non-performing loans surged to 7 billion euros, or 14.4
percent of all loans at the end of November, according to the
central bank.  “Institutional weaknesses will probably be exacerbated by
Slovenia’s sizable direct and indirect equity stakes in the real
economy, which amplify political polarization,” S&P said in the
statement. “We also take the view that vested interests that
benefit from long-entrenched entitlements or other forms of
rent-seeking related to Slovenia’s political cycles drag on the
pace and effectiveness of structural reforms.”  Government Measures  Jansa’s Cabinet, which took power a year ago after an early
vote following the collapse of the previous government, passed
legislation on the bank recapitalization plan, as well as the
creation of a sovereign holding and pension changes that are
meant to make the economy more competitive and pull it out of
its  second recession  in three years.  The prospect of early elections increased after one of
Jansa’s coalition partners, the People’s party, said last night
that it will support a no-confidence vote in the Cabinet and
decided that it won’t be part of a technocrat administration
that is being pushed by the largest opposition group.  Slovenia’s general government deficit, excluding the
announced capital boost for banks, will decrease to around the
government’s target of 3 percent of GDP by the end of the year,
the ratings company estimates, from just over 4 percent at the
end of 2012 and 6.4 percent in 2011.  Along with more changes to the pension system, S&P said
“that reforms to the health-care system and labor market could
help create a more flexible economy, improve medium-term
employment prospects, and reduce pressures on Slovenia’s social
security system.”  After the cut, S&P’s rating of Slovenia is equivalent to
that of Fitch Ratings, while Moody’s Investors Service rates the
country at Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dave Liedtka in New York at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  