-- Small-Business Optimism in U.S. Improves for Second Month
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-12T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/small-business-optimism-in-u-s-improves-for-second-month.html
Confidence among U.S. small
businesses rose in January for a second month after lawmakers
reached a last-minute deal to avert a sweeping increase in
income taxes.  The  National Federation of Independent Business ’s optimism
 index  improved to 88.9 last month from 88 in December. Seven of
the measure’s 10 components contributed to the gain in January,
the Washington-based group said.  The agreement by President  Barack Obama  and Congress on
Jan. 1 that also delayed government spending cuts helped
stabilize the sentiment gauge, which dropped in November to the
lowest level since March 2010. At the same time, Congress has
until March 1 to reach a deal and avoid automatic budget
reductions that are a risk to an economy that unexpectedly
shrank at the end of 2012.  “The fourth-quarter decline in GDP was not a confidence
builder,”  William Dunkelberg , the group’s chief economist, said
in a statement. “Business investment and housing looked OK.
 Consumer spending , especially on non-durables was not strong.”  Gross domestic product dropped at a 0.1 percent annual rate
in the fourth quarter, the worst performance since the second
quarter of 2009, depressed by a smaller gain in inventories and
a decline in military spending.  The NFIB report was based on a survey of 2,033 small-business owners through Jan. 28. Congress passed a bipartisan
agreement on Jan. 1 making permanent the George W. Bush-era
income tax cuts for 99 percent of Americans while letting them
end for top earners. The agreement, which also allowed the
 payroll tax  to rise 2 percentage points, left undetermined what
to do about automatic government-spending cuts.  Employment Plans  Last month’s improvement in the small-business index was
helped by an increase in those planning to add more workers. A
net 3 percent said they expect to add to headcount, compared
with a net 1 percent in the previous survey. A gauge of hard-to-fill openings advanced by 2 percentage points to 18 percent.  Employers added 157,000 jobs in January after a revised
196,000 rise the prior month and a 247,000 gain in November,
Labor Department figures showed on Feb. 1.  The share of companies planning  capital spending  in the
next three months to six months increased 1 percentage point,
also helping the overall measure of sentiment.  The gauge of the net share of small businesses projecting
improved economic conditions six months from now registered the
biggest increase of all the components in January, jumping 5
points to minus 30 percent. In December, the measure held at
minus 35 percent, the lowest since monthly records began in
1999.  Credit Conditions  While the index of credit conditions improved, more still
expect it will be harder to arrange financing than easier. The
group’s measure rose 2 percentage points to minus 9 percent.  The survey’s net figures are calculated by subtracting the
percent of business owners giving a negative answer from those
with a positive response and adjusting the results for seasonal
variations.  The gauge’s reading of 88.9 compares to a low of 81 in
March 2009, according to NFIB monthly data going back to 1986.
The index peaked at 107.7 in November 2004.  Small companies represent more than 99 percent of all U.S.
employers, according to the U.S. Small Business Administration.
A small business is defined as an independent enterprise with no
more than 500 employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  