-- SNB Sees Franc Weakening as Currency War Talk Dismissed
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   T h o m a s   M u l i e r
-- 2013-02-12T12:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/snb-s-jordan-sees-franc-weakening-as-currency-war-talk-dismissed.html
Swiss National Bank President  Thomas Jordan  predicted that the franc will continue to weaken and
rejected the notion that central banks are engaging in a
currency war.  The currency is “still at a high level even at the current
price,” Jordan told reporters in Geneva today. “Consequently
we expect the franc to continue to fall and weaken.”  The SNB imposed a ceiling of 1.20 francs to the euro in
September 2011 to fend off deflation after the currency almost
reached parity with the euro. The world’s major industrial
nations today sought to soothe mounting fears of a currency war
with a pledge to avoid devaluing their exchange rates in the
pursuit of stronger economic growth.  The franc cap “has nothing to do with a currency war, but
it was necessary just to limit the negative impact of the
appreciation of the Swiss franc in Switzerland,” Jordan said.
“I don’t think that central banks worldwide are in a currency
war,” Jordan said. “Central banks’ monetary policies are
internal programs” and focused on “domestic problems.”  Japan’s monetary policy has come under scrutiny on concern
that a new campaign to beat deflation is an outright attempt to
weaken the yen, an allegation its government has repeatedly
denied. Jordan today backed Japan’s approach.  “In Japan there’s a problem that domestic demand isn’t
sufficiently strong and it has experienced light deflation for
some time,” Jordan said. “Japan and the Japanese central bank
are trying to change policy in the direction to avoid deflation
and in order to stimulate growth.”  ‘Defensive’ Cap  Exchange rates should be left to the markets except in
“extreme” cases as Switzerland, Jordan said. The ceiling
didn’t push the franc to a level where it gave the country a
competitive advantage and was a “defensive” move, he said.  To protect the franc limit, the central bank has piled up
record  foreign-currency reserves , with holdings rising more than
50 percent to 427 billion francs ($466 billion) since the
ceiling was introduced. That made it the world’s biggest foreign
exchange-rate manager in 2012, overtaking China, according to a
BGOV Barometer published in December.  The motives for the introduction of the cap “are still
valid,” Jordan said. “The ceiling remains the adequate
instrument to maintain the stability of prices.”  The franc has weakened 2 percent against the euro this year
as confidence in the 17-nation euro area increased. It was
trading almost unchanged at 1.23279 francs per euro as of 1:18
p.m. in Zurich, after rising to as much as 0.4 percent earlier
today.  “The risk of franc volatility will persist as long as the
fiscal problems in the euro region aren’t resolved,” Jordan
said. While the central bank is ready to take additional
measures if required, Jordan said that he didn’t see the need
for such steps for the time being.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  