-- Softbank Surges on Report FCC Rejects Sprint Delay: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-02-12T08:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/softbank-surges-on-report-fcc-rejects-sprint-delay-tokyo-mover.html
Softbank Corp. , the Japanese mobile
carrier seeking to buy Sprint Nextel Corp., rose to the highest
in almost seven years after the New York Post reported U.S.
regulators rejected a request to delay a review of the deal.  Softbank , controlled by billionaire Masayoshi Son, rose 4.7
percent to close at 3,545 yen, the highest since April 2006. The
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose 1.9 percent.  The Federal Communications Commission will maintain its
original schedule for reviewing Softbank’s $20 billion offer for
Sprint, dismissing a request for a delay from Dish Network
Corp., the  Post  reported, citing people “close to the deal.”
The Japanese carrier is also expected to overcome Justice
Department concerns, the report said.  Mitsuhiro Kurano , a spokesman for Tokyo-based Softbank,
Japan’s third-largest wireless company, declined to comment on
the report.  Dish asked the FCC for a delay as it separately competes
with Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint for Clearwire Corp.
Sprint, the third-biggest U.S. wireless carrier, has offered to
buy out minority shareholders in its Clearwire unit for $2.97 a
share. Dish has made a $3.30 per share bid.  The FCC has included Sprint’s offer for Bellevue,
Washington-based Clearwire in its review of Softbank’s plan to
buy about 70 percent of Sprint.  The U.S. Justice Department, last month asked the FCC to
defer consideration of the Softbank acquisition. The department,
including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the
Department of Homeland Security are reviewing the proposal for
national security and law enforcement issues, according to a
filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  