-- Sourcefire Gains Ahead of Cybersecurity Order: Washington Mover
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-02-12T21:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/sourcefire-gains-ahead-of-cybersecurity-order-washington-mover.html
Sourcefire Inc. , a network security
provider for government agencies and private companies, rose the
most in more than three months on anticipation that President
Obama will release an executive order on cybersecurity.  The shares  advanced  7.4 percent to $43.06 at the close in
New York for the biggest one-day gain since Nov. 1. Sourcefire,
based in Columbia, Maryland, had declined 15 percent this year
through yesterday, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
increased 6.4 percent.  President Obama is expected to issue an executive order
aimed at bolstering U.S. cybersecurity this week following
tonight’s State of the Union address, according to two former
White House officials briefed on the plans. Sourcefire may
benefit if Obama’s order requires agencies to invest in
cybersecurity, said  Frederick Ziegel , an analyst with Topeka
Capital Markets Inc. in New York.  “Sourcefire has got a fairly large exposure to the federal
government,” Ziegel, who has a hold rating on the stock, said
in an interview. It remains to be seen whether the company will
actually benefit from the order, he said.  About 28 percent of Sourcefire’s  revenue  came from U.S.
federal and state agencies in the quarter ended Sept. 30,
according to filings.  The Obama administration has been drafting an executive
order on computer security since at least last fall. Obama has
said water-treatment plants, railway systems and other assets
that serve millions of Americans need greater protection from
hackers.  “You’re going to have to see what the details of what the
executive order are,” said Ziegel.  Sourcefire is  scheduled  to report earnings after the market
close on Feb. 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  