-- S. Korea Jobless Rate Rises Ahead of Park Inauguration
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-02-12T23:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/south-korea-jobless-rate-rises-as-park-prepares-to-take-office.html
(Corrects Park inauguration timing in first paragraph.)  South Korea’s unemployment rate rose
to a seven-month high in the final jobs report before incoming
President  Park Geun Hye  takes office on Feb. 25.  The  level  was 3.2 percent in January, compared with 3
percent in December, Statistics Korea said in an e-mailed
statement. The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 11
economists was for a rate of 3 percent. The number of employed
people increased by 322,000, or 1.4 percent, to 24.054 million
last month from a year earlier.  Weaknesses in Asia’s fourth-biggest economy may make it
more difficult for Park to fulfill pledges to create jobs for
the young, older people and women. Record household debt is
weighing on domestic consumption and the won’s gains against the
yen threaten to undermine exports.  “Efforts to create jobs will take some time, especially
when companies are still struggling with weak demand both at
home and abroad,”  Park Sang Hyun , chief economist at HI
Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul, said before the release.
“The job market may see some temporary weakness, given that
high-school and college students graduating in February are
looking for jobs and cold weather has kept many construction
workers idle.”  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
called on the government to promote the shift of more workers to
regular jobs to aid long-term growth in a Feb. 5  report . One in
four Korean workers is on a temporary contract, double the OECD
average, the Paris-based organization said.  The won gained 24 percent against the yen in the past six
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The seasonally unadjusted jobless rate was at 3.4 percent
in January, up from 2.9 percent in December, today’s report
showed.  The Bank of Korea will keep the key interest rate unchanged
for a fourth month at 2.75 percent tomorrow, according to 14 of
15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. In an interview last
month, policy committee member  Moon Woo Sik  said that business
confidence and investment may gain as risks recede from Europe’s
debt crisis and the so-called fiscal cliff of spending cuts and
tax increases in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  