-- Sri Lanka Holds Rates to Contain Price Gains While Aiding Growth
-- B y   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t   a n d   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2013-02-12T02:29:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/sri-lanka-holds-rates-to-contain-price-gains-while-aiding-growth.html
Sri Lanka left interest rates
unchanged for a second month as it seeks to damp price pressures
while supporting economic growth.  The Central Bank of Sri Lanka kept its  reverse repurchase
rate  at 9.5 percent and the  repurchase rate  at 7.5 percent, it
said in a statement in Colombo today. Seven of nine economists
in a Bloomberg News survey predicted no change. Two forecast a
quarter-point cut in both rates.  The island’s inflation accelerated to 9.8 percent in
January, one of the highest levels in 17 Asia-Pacific economies
tracked by Bloomberg. The central bank expects price gains to
ease and Governor  Ajith Nivard Cabraal  said Feb. 5 its “overall
view is that this is a time to relax policy” carefully.  “The central bank is moving towards a more dovish monetary
policy stance to support growth as inflation is expected to
moderate from the second quarter onwards,”  Samantha Amerasinghe ,
an economist at Standard Chartered Plc in Colombo, said before
the decision. “However, it’s concerned that further policy
easing could risk fuelling near-term inflationary pressures.”  The pace of price increases is expected to moderate after
February, the central bank said in today’s statement.  The government’s infrastructure drive since the end of a
civil war in 2009 will help boost economic growth to 7.5 percent
this year from an estimated 6.5 percent in 2012, Cabraal said
last month.  The nation on Dec. 12 lowered borrowing costs for the first
time since 2011. That followed two increases in 2012, which were
part of policy changes to damp demand for imports and pare a
trade deficit that sapped currency reserves.  The rupee has risen about 1 percent this year after falling
about 10 percent against the dollar in 2012. Officials allowed
the currency to weaken last year under the effort to narrow the
trade shortfall.  Sri Lanka is in talks with the International Monetary Fund
for an extended facility after last year completing a $2.6
billion loan program to bolster foreign reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Anusha Ondaatjie  in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  