-- St. Jude Recalls System to Help Hole-in-Heart Therapy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2013-02-12T21:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/st-jude-recalls-system-to-help-hole-in-heart-therapy.html
St. Jude Medical Inc.  recalled a new
delivery system used to treat people with a dangerous hole in
the heart after discovering the device could fracture in a small
number of cases, U.S. regulators said.  The core wire in the Amplatzer TorqVue FX Delivery System
may fracture, causing serious damage and perhaps death, the Food
and Drug Administration said today in a notice on its website.
The Class 1 recall, considered the most serious type, was
initiated on Jan. 18, the agency said.  St. Jude received an FDA warning letter last month for its
manufacturing processes at a California factory. The company
stopped selling its Riata lead used to connect life-saving
defibrillators to the heart in 2010 after research showed the
wires could break through their insulation coating, potentially
causing appropriate shocks. St. Jude last year recalled the
QuickSite and QuickFlex left-ventricular leads after reports
that those wires could protrude from their insulation.  St. Jude said it told physicians about the voluntary recall
of the Amplatzer TorqVue system last month in a letter after
discovering the damage could occur in certain heart patients. No
serious injuries have occurred, the St. Paul, Minnesota-based
company said. The letter told doctors to stop using the device
and pull it from their inventory.  “If the device has already been used successfully, there
is no cause for concern or additional action,” the company said
in a statement. “St. Jude Medical is taking a conservative
approach in removing all remaining inventory.”  St. Jude declined less than 1 percent to $42.60 at the
close in New York. The company’s shares fell less than 1 percent
in the past 12 months.  Doctors are able to use an older version of the delivery
system to insert the device used to close a hole in the heart,
said  Amy Jo Meyer , a company spokeswoman. The treatment to close
the hole is designed to prevent blood clots from traveling to
the brain and causing strokes.  The new system has been used in 120 patients, the company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  