-- Statoil to Bring Skrugard-Havis Oil Ashore by Pipe, Petoro Says
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-02-12T10:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/statoil-to-bring-skrugard-havis-oil-ashore-by-pipe-petoro-says.html
Statoil ASA , the Norwegian energy
company preparing to develop the Barents Sea’s biggest oil
finds, plans to bring the crude ashore by pipeline, according to
partner Petoro AS.  Output will be piped from the twin Skrugard and Havis
discoveries, Jan Rosnes, Petoro’s vice president for gas fields
and new developments, said today in an interview in Tromsoe,
declining to provide further details on the development plan.
 Ola Anders Skauby , a spokesman for Statoil, declined to comment.  Skrugard and Havis, which together may hold as much as 600
million barrels of oil, are located 200 kilometers (124 miles)
from land and 7 kilometers apart. Stavanger-based Statoil, which
expects to start output from the deposits in 2018, will present
a development plan for the permit area today in northern Norway.  Described as a “breakthrough” by Statoil, Skrugard was
the first commercial discovery in the Arctic Barents Sea in more
than 10 years when made in early 2011. Together with Havis,
found less than a year later, it renewed interest in Norway’s
northernmost waters, which hold 72 of the 86 new licenses to be
awarded by the country in its current licensing round.  The Barents Sea probably holds more than 6 billion barrels
of oil equivalent in undiscovered resources, the Norwegian
Petroleum Directorate said in January.  Norway Exploration  Skrugard and Havis, as well as the Johan Sverdrup discovery
in the North Sea, have also helped rekindle appetite for
exploration in Norway as a whole, where oil production has
dropped by half since 2000. Investments in the nation’s oil
industry may reach a record 208 billion kroner ($38 billion)
this year, according to the state statistics bureau.  Statoil, Norway’s largest energy company, has said it will
drill as many as nine exploration wells in the Barents Sea in
2013. Four will be at two licenses in the Skrugard-Havis area,
operated by Statoil with a 50 percent share. Eni SpA holds 30
percent and Petoro 20 percent. Statoil will also drill in the
Hoop area, the northernmost region to be explored in Norway.  Skrugard-Havis is located about 100 kilometers north of
Statoil’s Snohvit gas field, the only field in production in the
Norwegian Barents Sea, and 150 kilometers north of Eni’s Goliat
oil and gas deposit, slated to start producing in the third
quarter of 2014.  With 174 million barrels of recoverable oil, Goliat is
among new fields that may help Norway raise oil production in
2014 after 13 years of declines, according to the petroleum
directorate.  Statoil last year shelved plans to expand production of
liquefied natural gas from the Snohvit field because of a lack
of resources. Smaller companies such as Det Norske Oljeselskap
ASA and Lundin Petroleum AB have said a southbound export
pipeline is necessary to make gas finds in the Barents Sea
profitable.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mikael Holter  in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  