-- Stockland Mulls Apartment Development Return Under New Head
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-02-13T05:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/stockland-posts-first-half-loss-cuts-full-year-profit-forecast.html
Stockland, Australia’s biggest
housing developer, is weighing a return to apartment development
while slowing the disposal of office and industrial properties
as new managing director reviews his predecessor’s strategy.  “Infill development is an important part of the future of
residential accommodation development in Australia and we
certainly see it as a viable business opportunity,”  Mark Steinert , who took over as managing director last month, said in
a telephone interview. “We’re slowing down the sale of
commercial and industrial assets” to maintain the flexibility
to keep or grow the business, he said.  Stockland, which began moving away from developing
apartments in 2010, focused on residential communities,
retirement properties and retail real estate under former
managing director Matthew Quinn’s “3-R” strategy. A two-year
decline in home prices forced Stockland to post its first loss
in seven half-year periods as it wrote down the value of some
residential developments.  Stockland’s net loss of A$147.1 million ($152 million) in
the six months ended Dec. 31 compared with a profit of A$307.6
million a year ago, according to a regulatory filing today. That
was the first half-yearly loss for the Sydney-based company
since the six months ended June 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Earnings per share in the year to June 30 will be 20
percent to 25 percent lower than the previous 12 months,
compared with an earlier forecast for a drop of as much as 15
percent, the company said. The higher-than-expected decline is
due to changes in the way Stockland will apply capitalized
interest on residential projects from July 1, it said.  Business Review  The shares jumped 5.2 percent to A$3.66 at the close of
trading in Sydney, the biggest increase since August 2011. The
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index rose 0.9 percent.  “Investors may welcome the larger impairment and the
decisive action to dispose non-performing projects,”  Louise Mylott , executive director for specialist sales at Morgan
Stanley, said in an e-mailed note. “The underlying results
looked OK and management seems confident that fiscal year 2013
is the worst of the worst.”  Stockland is undertaking a review of its business, and the
company’s board is open to a revision of its strategy, Chairman
 Graham Bradley  has said. The review will consider returns and
risks of apartment development relative to other businesses,
Steinert said today.  Asset Writedowns  Stockland has taken impairments worth A$234 million, A$3
million and A$9 million on 13 residential projects, one
apartment site and two industrial land parcels that it plans to
sell instead of develop, the company said. It has also taken
writedowns on seven residential communities and two apartment
projects totaling A$60 million, it said. The impairments have
reduced net tangible assets by 14 cents a security to A$3.49 per
share, it said.  Underlying profit during the half fell 26 percent to A$255
million, Stockland said. Net operating income was A$28 million
in its residential division, A$159 million for the retail unit,
A$92 million in its office and industrial properties, and A$12
million in its retirement property business, it said.  The developer expects an improvement in earnings from
fiscal year 2014, driven by income from new retail and
residential properties, it said. Stockland will pay a
distribution of 12 Australian cents a share for the half,
unchanged from a year earlier, and 24 cents a share for the full
year, it said.  The company agreed to sell an office building in Sydney’s
center to Charter Hall Group for A$172.5 million, in line with
the building’s June 30 book value, Stockland said in a separate
statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  