-- Storm May Bring NYC Snow Tomorrow as Weekend Threat Fades
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-02-12T20:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/storm-may-bring-nyc-snow-tomorrow-as-weekend-threat-looms.html
A fast-moving storm may drop as much
as 3 inches of snow on New York City and parts of New England
tomorrow as the threat of a major weekend storm eases.  The first storm is now moving through the Texas Panhandle
and Oklahoma, where it may leave 3 to 6 inches (8 to 15
centimeters) of snow before moving into the Ohio Valley and the
Northeast, said  Tom Kines , a meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc.
New York and parts of New Jersey, Long Island, southern
Connecticut and Rhode Island may receive 1 to 3 inches.  “The extent of the snow probably isn’t big with this
system; it will be a narrow ribbon of snow from the Texas
panhandle to the Northeast,” Kines said by telephone from State
College, Pennsylvania. “It could be enough to disrupt travel
for a few hours. It probably stays south of Boston.”  Another system set to move across the continent during the
week and then off the coast this weekend has forecasters trying
to determine if it’s going to be a threat to the Northeast.  The  National Weather Service  believes the storm will move
too far out to sea to bring snow to the coast, said Bob Oravec,
lead forecaster for the agency in College Park, Maryland.  “There is some potential for it, but there’s potential
that it could be offshore,” Oravec said by telephone. “It
doesn’t take a lot to go from a significant storm to nothing,
and that is one of the dilemmas that we’re having with our
forecast.”  Forecast Models  A model by the European Center for Medium-Range Weather
Forecasts suggests the storm will go too far out to sea to be a
threat, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group
LLC in Bethesda, Maryland. The European model accurately
predicted last week’s blizzard and Hurricane Sandy’s turn into
the East Coast in October.  Other computer models are beginning to agree with the
European one, Rogers said. That may mean no travel impediments
for the Feb. 18 Presidents Day holiday.  “Risks for an East Coast holiday weekend winter storm
continue to diminish significantly,” Rogers said.  The Northeast is still recovering from a blizzard that
lashed the region starting Feb. 8. The storm dropped 24.9 inches
on Boston, the fifth-most on record, and 40 inches on Hamden,
Connecticut, according to the National Weather Service. At least
seven people died, about 613,000 customers from Maine to New
York were without power and travel was crippled.  The overall pattern right now favors more storms along the
Northeast, Kines said.  “It’s not a tranquil pattern,” Kines said. “If you are a
snow lover and you like snowstorms, this is a pretty good
pattern for you because there is a lot of potential.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 