-- SunEdison Says U.S. Companies Benefited From India Solar Policy
-- B y   G a n e s h   N a g a r a j a n
-- 2013-02-12T13:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/sunedison-says-u-s-companies-benefited-from-india-solar-policy.html
India’s solar policy has benefited
U.S. companies and not given much help to domestic suppliers
even though it restricts imports of the technology, said an
industry executive for a unit of  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc .  Pashupathy Gopalan, South Asia managing director of MEMC’s
SunEdison LLC, which provides solar services, said India’s
decision to relax policies favoring local companies has directly
helped First Solar Inc., an Arizona-based competitor. The
executive spoke from Chennai on India’s East coast.  The comments support India’s decision last week to reject
U.S. claims that it violated World Trade Organization rules on
solar equipment purchases. India is set to begin talks with the
U.S. over the complaint filed with the WTO. Most of India’s
solar projects under the second round of the National Solar
Mission were completed with imported thin film, he said.  “The government of India wants to try and nurture and grow
the manufacturing side of the solar module and solar cell
manufacturing,” Gopalan said in a phone interview today. “They
allow the exclusion to that by allowing thin film module imports
from the country that benefited the most -- America.”  India has a target to generate 20,000 megawatts of solar
power by 2022 under the National Solar Mission.  Vineet Mittal, managing director of Welspun Energy Ltd.,
India’s biggest developer of solar projects, said he hoped that
India avoids trade barriers.  “We need to have a long-term perspective to this whole
issue,” he said in an e-mailed statement. “India wants to
export product manufactured in India to all over world, which is
becoming more globalized than ever.”  India should strengthen local manufacturing by waiving
import duties on components that go into a module, give tax
breaks and incentivise for capital expenditure, Gopalan said.
This will help the local manufacturers to compete with global
companies, he added.  Gopalan said protecting the local market through trade
barriers would push up the cost of electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ganesh Nagarajan in Chennai at 
 gnagarajan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  