-- Stocks in Switzerland Rise; UBS Advances, Holcim Declines
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-02-12T16:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-as-consumer-prices-fall.html
Swiss stocks  rose for a third day,
their longest winning streak in two weeks, as investors awaited
U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s State of the Union address.  UBS AG posted the largest gain on the benchmark Swiss
Market Index. Swisscom AG, Switzerland’s biggest phone company,
advanced 0.7 percent. Holcim Ltd., the world’s largest cement
maker, slipped 0.6 percent.  The  SMI  advanced 0.3 percent to 7,427.06 at the close of
trading in Zurich, after earlier dropping as much as 0.2
percent. The gauge has rallied 8.9 percent this year, led by
gains of more than 20 percent in Transocean Ltd., the world’s
largest offshore driller, and Credit Suisse Group AG,
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank. The broader Swiss Performance
Index added 0.2 percent today.  “We’re not going to return to a similar situation we had
in the past two years where concerns over the euro-zone crisis
will pop up again and lead to a prolonged drop in the market,”
said  Konstantin Giantiroglou , head of investment advisory at
Neue Aargauer Bank in Brugg, Switzerland. “We’ll get further
confirmation in the next few weeks that the economy is slowly
improving in Europe, which will be the basis for the next up
move. It’s a transitional period and the market has paused; we
had huge gains in January which we have to digest.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 20 percent less than the average of the last 30 days, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Obama delivers his State of the Union address from 9 p.m.
in Washington. He will make proposals for spending on
infrastructure, clean energy and education, according to an
administration official briefed on the speech.  Franc Cap  Swiss National Bank President  Thomas Jordan  predicted that
the Swiss franc will continue to weaken against the euro. The
SNB will apply the franc cap “without restrictions,” he said
in a speech in Geneva, adding that the central bank will take
additional measures if necessary.  UBS  advanced 2.7 percent to 15.62 francs. The U.K.’s
financial regulator fined Switzerland’s biggest lender 9.45
million pounds ($14.8 million) for failing to carry out
sufficient due diligence on American International Group Inc.’s
Enhanced Variable Rate Fund before selling it to customers. The
bank qualified for a 30 percent discount on the fine as it
agreed to settle at an early stage of the investigation, the
U.K.’s Financial Services Authority said.  Swisscom  added 2.90 francs to 407 francs, rising for a
third consecutive day. The shares dropped 1.1 percent last week
as the phone company forecast earnings for 2013 that missed
analysts’ estimates.  Holcim slipped 45 centimes to 70.20 francs, dropping for
the third time in four days.  Actelion Ltd., the Swiss maker of the Tracleer lung drug,
declined 0.7 percent to 44.65 francs.  Syngenta AG , the world’s largest agro-chemical company,
lost 0.8 percent to 390.30 francs, for the worst performance on
the SMI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  