-- Swiss Franc Advances, Scotching Jordan’s Prediction of Weakness
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-02-12T16:32:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/swiss-franc-advances-scotching-jordan-s-prediction-of-weakness.html
The Swiss franc strengthened the
most in more than a week versus the dollar, scotching central
bank president Thomas Jordan’s prediction that the currency will
continue to weaken.  The franc advanced against most of its 16 major peers
tracked by Bloomberg after Jordan told reporters in Geneva the
franc is “still at a high level even at the current price.” He
also rejected the notion that central banks are engaging in a
currency war. It climbed from the weakest in almost two weeks
against the dollar even after Swiss consumer prices extended
their longest slump in at least four decades in January.  “It’s really a counterintuitive move,” said  Peter Rosenstreich , chief foreign-exchange strategist at Swissquote
Bank SA in Geneva. “In general, we’re seeing a retracement of
the selloff that we saw last week. I don’t think the comments
that we heard today should be putting us in the direction of a
stronger Swiss franc.”  The franc advanced 0.5 percent to 91.60 centimes per dollar
at 4:19 p.m. London time after gaining 0.6 percent, the steepest
appreciation since Feb. 1. It earlier fell to 92.15 centimes,
the weakest since Jan. 30. The Swiss currency was little changed
at 1.2332 per euro.  The Swiss National Bank imposed a ceiling of 1.20 francs to
the euro in September 2011 to help exporters and fend off
deflation after the franc almost reached parity with the 17-
nation common currency. The franc has weakened 1.9 percent
against the euro this year as the easing European sovereign-debt
crisis sapped demand for haven assets.  Swiss consumer prices fell 0.3 percent from a year earlier
after dropping 0.4 percent in December, the Federal Statistics
Office in Neuchatel said in an e-mailed statement today. That’s
the 16th consecutive month of annual declines, the longest
stretch since at least 1971, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at   pdobson2@bloomberg.net . 