-- Syria’s Assad Ready to Meet Opposition as Rebels Seize Base
-- B y   Z a i d   S a b a h   a n d   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2013-02-12T14:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/syrian-government-ready-to-meet-opposition-as-rebels-seize-base.html
Syria’s government signaled it’s
ready to hold talks with the opposition Syrian National
Coalition as rebel forces seized a dam and an airport and
pressed their attack across the country.  Ali Haidar , Syria’s minister for national reconciliation,
is willing to meet  Moaz al-Khatib  “in any foreign city where I
can go in order to discuss preparations for a national
dialogue,”  the U.K.-based Guardian  newspaper cited Haidar as
saying. Four days earlier, Information Minister  Omran al-Zoubi 
said the government would hold talks if the opposition abandons
weapons and sets no pre-conditions.  Al-Khatib renewed his offer of dialogue yesterday with the
government of President  Bashar al-Assad , saying he’s prepared to
hold the meetings in rebel-held areas in northern Syria. Talks
should focus on finding a way for Assad to leave power to
prevent “more death and destruction,” al-Khatib said on his
Facebook page.  More than 60,000 people have died in the conflict that
started in March 2011, according to the United Nations, as
forces loyal to Assad fight rebels who are seeking an end to his
family’s rule. Electricity rationing has worsened as the
fighting disrupts supplies and prevents repairs to damaged
infrastructure, while fuel is also in short supply.  Al-Khatib said earlier this month that he was open to a
dialogue with members of Assad’s government subject to
conditions, including the release of 160,000 detainees. He said
at the time he was ready to meet Assad’s deputy,  Farouk al- Shara , because since the start of the crisis he “has seen that
things were going in the wrong direction.”  Airport Captured  More than 3,000 Syrian refugees cross into Jordan every
day, the World Health Organization said in e-mailed statement.
Shortage of medicines is becoming critical, the WHO said.  Rebels including the Islamist Al-Nusra Front yesterday
captured the Jarah military airport in Aleppo province, the
 Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said in an e-mail today. The
rebels captured 40 government soldiers and seized heavy machine-
guns and ammunition at base, the group said.  Video footage posted on  YouTube  showed hangars containing
several jet fighters. The authenticity of the video couldn’t be
verified. The U.K.-based opposition group said yesterday that
the rebels took control of the al-Furat Dam on the Euphrates.  Attacks against the power infrastructure have cost the
Syrian economy 218 billion pounds ($3.1 billion), the state-run
Syrian Arab News Agency said, citing Electricity Minister  Imad Khamis . Fighting has killed 81 workers in the electricity
industry, while 175 have been injured, it said.  An explosion on a minibus with a Syrian license plate
killed 14 people at a Turkish border crossing with Syria
yesterday, according to Turkish state television. The blast
occurred at the Cilvegozu border point in an area where
humanitarian aid supplies were distributed, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Sabah Abd Alhamid in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  