-- U.K. House-Price Index Falls as Snow Disrupts Market, RICS Says
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2013-02-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/u-k-house-price-index-falls-as-snow-disrupts-market-rics-says.html
An index of U.K.  house prices  fell
in January as heavy snow affecting most of the country depressed
interest from potential buyers, according to the Royal
Institution of Chartered Surveyors.  A gauge by London-based RICS declined to minus 4 from minus
1 in December, it said in an e-mailed report today, citing a
monthly poll of property surveyors. While a measure of new buyer
inquiries fell to minus 9 from 10, the outlook for home values
improved, it said.  A decline in mortgage interest rates is helping to boost
demand, according to RICS, which said a sales gauge increased
for a fourth month in January. The Bank of England said last
week that its Funding for Lending Scheme, intended to reduce
banks’ funding costs, should continue to ease credit conditions.  “Activity levels are still encouraging,” RICS director
 Peter Bolton King  said in a statement. “There is some optimism
out there that things could continue to improve.”  A measure of new instructions from home sellers fell to
minus 5 in January from 1 in December, as bad weather
“depressed” activity, RICS said. A gauge of newly agreed sales
rose to 15 from 2.  The three-month price expectations net balance remained
unchanged at 1, the highest in more than 2 1/2 years, while the
12-month expectations gauge jumped to 18 from 5. The medium-term
outlook for prices is improving, and “the worst might be
over,” RICS said.  Acadametrics Ltd. and LSL Property Services also cited the
Bank of England’s FLS last week when they said that home prices
rose in January. LSL Commercial Director David Brown said market
conditions are “certainly improving.”  BOE data on Jan. 30 showed that mortgage approvals rose
more than economists forecast in December, and Governor-
designate  Mark Carney  said the FLS has shown “encouraging
signs.” Still, Halifax said on Feb. 6 that home values declined
last month and that the outlook for the property market remains
unclear.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  