-- U.K. Home Secretary May Said Resisting Cuts to Spending
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-02-13T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/u-k-home-secretary-may-said-resisting-cuts-to-spending.html
U.K. Home Secretary  Theresa May  is
resisting demands by Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
to cut her budget as he seeks savings across government
departments, a person familiar with the negotiations said.  The Home Office has already suffered substantial budget
reductions, including cuts in police numbers, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the discussions are
confidential. The department is arguing that Osborne should seek
savings in other ministries that have not already faced such
difficult choices, the person said. Efficiency measures are
being examined, the person said.  May’s budget, which covers border controls as well as
policing, is already scheduled to decline to 7.7 billion pounds
($12.1 billion) in the 2014-15 financial year from 8.7 billion
pounds in 2011-12, according to the spending plan announced by
Osborne in March. In his end-of-year financial statement in
December, the chancellor announced that the Home Office’s
expenditure limits would be reduced by a further 80 million
pounds in 2013-14 and 155 million pounds the following year.  Osborne is seeking extra savings of 10 billion pounds in
2015-16 as he pursues the biggest fiscal squeeze since World War
II, with Defense Secretary  Philip Hammond , Business Secretary
 Vince Cable  and Justice Secretary  Chris Grayling  also resisting
cuts. The Liberal Democrats, the junior coalition partners, have
repeatedly called for a focus on higher taxes for the wealthy
even as spending has to be constrained.  May has resisted Treasury attempts to alter Home Office
policy in the past.  Immigration Rules  Late last year, the home secretary, a Conservative like
Osborne, blocked a bid by the Treasury to relax immigration
rules. She was concerned the proposal to increase the number of
so-called highly skilled foreign employees allowed into Britain
risked a political backlash if it was included in Osborne’s end-
of-year statement.  May came second to  Queen Elizabeth II  in a list of the 100
most powerful women in the U.K. that was published yesterday by
the BBC’s “Woman’s Hour” radio program. She is one of a number
of Cabinet ministers who are possible challengers to Prime
Minister  David Cameron  as a future leader of the Conservatives.
She received a round of applause yesterday when she briefed
Cabinet colleagues in London on plans to root out police
corruption and misconduct.  The government set out its priorities for the spending
review at the time of Osborne’s autumn statement, a spokesman
for the Treasury, who asked not to be identified in line with
government practice, said in a telephone interview. No decision
has been made about departmental budgets, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  