-- U.K. Court Rules Unpaid Employment Programs Are Illegal
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2013-02-12T12:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/u-k-court-rules-unpaid-employment-programs-are-illegal.html
A U.K. government plan forcing the
unemployed to work for free by threatening to halt benefit
payments is illegal, an appeals court ruled.  Regulations designed by the government to “revive the work
habit” didn’t give enough information to job-seekers, Judge
 Malcolm Pill  said in a written decision in London today.  The case was filed by former museum curator Caitlin Reilly
and truck driver Jamieson Wilson, who sued after refusing to
take part in a government program involving unpaid work at
retail stores such as those owned by Poundland Holdings Ltd.
while looking for permanent positions.  “Nobody can be lawfully forced to participate” in the
government’s Work Program or Community Action Program, Tessa
Gregory, a lawyer for Reilly and Wilson, said in a statement.
“All of those who have been stripped of their benefits have a
right to claim the money back.”  Employment Minister  Mark Hoban  said the government will
appeal the ruling and new legislation will be drawn up so that
the current back-to-work programs wouldn’t be affected.  “Ultimately the judgment confirms that it is right that we
expect people to take getting into work seriously if they want
to claim benefits,” Hoban said.  Reilly was made to stack shelves in a Poundland store for
two weeks, while Wilson was stripped of his unemployment
benefits after refusing to work unpaid for 30 hours a week for
six months, their lawyers said.  “It is pointless to force people to work for no pay in
jobs that do nothing to help them while putting others at risk
of unemployment,”  Frances O’Grady , general secretary of the
Trades Union Congress, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  