-- U.S. Companies See Huge Opportunities in Mexico, Chamber Says
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-02-12T22:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/u-s-companies-see-huge-opportunities-in-mexico-chamber-says.html
U.S. companies see “huge”
opportunities in Mexico, where the government has pledged to
open the state-owned energy industry to more private investment,
upgrade transportation and spur telecommunications competition,
according to a top official at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  Exxon Mobil Corp. is among a group of U.S. companies in
Mexico City this week to identify investment opportunities and
strengthen ties with Latin America’s second-biggest economy,
said  Myron Brilliant , senior vice president for international
affairs at the largest U.S. business lobbying group. The
delegation is meeting with lawmakers and officials from the
energy, transportation and economy ministries, Brilliant said.  Mexico has the third-largest proven oil reserves in Latin
America after Venezuela and Brazil, according to state-owned oil
company Petroleos Mexicanos, known as Pemex. President  Enrique Pena Nieto , who took office Dec. 1, said during the campaign he
would make opening Pemex to more private investment his
“signature issue” as he looks to reverse production declines.  “We see huge opportunities for collaboration with Mexico,
and we’d like to build on the opening that has been presented by
Pena Nieto,” Brilliant said in an interview in Mexico City
yesterday. “Now the devil is in the details; how to pry open
the door, how to modernize and update” energy production.
“That means changes to Pemex, it means fundamental changes.”  Pena Nieto has pledged to send Congress a proposal in the
first half of this year to boost competitiveness, though he
hasn’t unveiled the specifics of the legislation.  Pena Nieto’s initiative may be the biggest energy-industry
overhaul since the late President  Lazaro Cardenas  seized oil
fields from British and U.S. companies 75 years ago. An oil
reform in 2008 under then-President  Felipe Calderon  pushed
through a bill that opened exploration and production projects
to private and foreign companies for the first time since the
expropriation without giving ownership or rights over the crude
reserves.  Patrick McGinn , a spokesman for Irving, Texas-based Exxon,
confirmed the company’s presence in this week’s delegation.  Exxon has “been in Mexico for over 100 years,” and it’s
“an important country for us,” McGinn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 