-- UAW Says Nissan Threatens Workers in Organizing Drive
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-02-12T23:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/uaw-says-nissan-threatens-workers-in-organizing-drive.html
The United Auto Workers, trying a
third time to organize  Nissan Motor Co. ’s U.S. workers, accused
Japan’s second-largest automaker of threatening to shut its
Canton, Mississippi, factory before it allows the union in.  “At Nissan in Mississippi, they’re threatening workers
there that they’re going to close the plant and that’s
baloney,” UAW President  Bob King  said in an interview
yesterday. Nissan workers are “being lied to by the American
management. The American management violates workers’ rights
every day.”  Organizing the U.S. factories of Asian and European
automakers is critical to the future of the union, where
membership has fallen by three-quarters since 1979. The UAW has
twice failed to win votes to represent workers at Nissan’s
Smyrna, Tennessee, factory and King didn’t meet a self-imposed
deadline to organize a so-called transplant by the end of 2011.  “We’ve got very aggressive campaigns going on at the
transnationals,” King said. “We know that’s key long-term to
the success of our membership and the long-term security of our
membership.”  Nissan denied that it’s threatening to close its
Mississippi factory where it hired 1,000 workers last year,
helping bring employment there to more than 5,000. The plant
builds the Altima sedan, Titan pickup, Armada sport-utility
vehicle and the NV commercial van. The company said last year it
was adding production of the Sentra sedan, Frontier pickup and
Xterra SUV. The Murano SUV is to be added in 2014.  “This is simply not true,” Camille Young, a spokeswoman
for Nissan’s Canton plant, said in an e-mail. “Threats of job
loss are not part of our communications with our employees and
intimidation of any kind will never be tolerated. Nissan follows
the letter and spirit of the law.”  King’s View  King said he’s disappointed with how the union’s organizing
drive is going at Nissan and is seeking the involvement of the
Yokohama, Japan-based automaker’s senior management.  “There’s a lot of integrity with Japanese management in
Japan,” King said. “I’m hopeful that top management will soon
realize and will then step in and correct the violations of
worker rights that are going on.”  King accused Nissan’s U.S. executives of violating labor
standards established by the United Nations Global Compact, the
International Labor Organization and the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development. The Detroit-based union
has sought help from Nissan’s Japanese unions, King said.  “We’ve had tremendous support from the Japanese
autoworkers saying to their management, ’You aren’t
understanding the truth,’” King said. “‘American management is
violating your principles, they’re violating your commitments
and they’re violating workers’ rights.’”  1979 Peak  “Nobody is violating my rights,” Corey Garner, a
production technician at the Canton plant since it opened in
2003, said in a phone interview yesterday. “Things are not bad
in Canton. We make a decent wage, especially for this area, it’s
one of the better jobs.”  Garner said he’s seen a “small amount” of Canton plant
employees wearing t-shirts and buttons and passing out flyers in
support of the UAW. “If you poll the plant you’ll see it’s a
small number of people who want to join,” said Garner, 36, who
isn’t backing the UAW drive.  King said the union is accelerating a public relations
campaign “to expose the violations of human rights that are
going on at the Nissan facilities in both Mississippi and
Tennessee.” Actor  Danny Glover  spoke out for Mississippi
workers outside the Detroit auto show in January.  The UAW’s membership peaked at 1.5 million in 1979. At the
end of 2011, the figure was 380,719.  The UAW lost votes at Nissan’s Smyrna factory in 1989 and
2001 by 2-1 margins. The union must convince at least 30 percent
of workers at the Canton factory to sign a petition seeking
representation before a vote will be set by the National Labor
Relations Board. For a union win, a majority of workers must
vote for UAW representation.  The only U.S. auto-assembly plant with UAW representation
that’s operated by an international carmaker is  Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. ’s Normal, Illinois, factory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  