-- UBS Fined $14.7 Million by U.K. on AIG Fund Sale Failings
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2013-02-12T15:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/ubs-fined-14-7-million-by-u-k-on-aig-fund-sale-failings.html
UBS AG  may have to pay out as much
as 19.5 million pounds ($30.5 million) in fines and compensation
for compliance failures on the sale of a fund linked to  American
International Group Inc.   The bank was fined 9.45 million pounds by the U.K.’s
financial watchdog for failing to perform “adequate” due
diligence on the AIG Enhanced Variable Rate Fund before selling
it to customers, the U.K. Financial Services Authority said in
an e-mailed statement. The bank, facing its third fine in four
months from the FSA, may also have pay to out 10 million pounds
more in compensation to customers, the agency said.  “We have made our expectations in relation to the wealth
management industry clear,”  Tracey McDermott , director of
enforcement at the FSA, said in the statement. “UBS has paid
the price for its failures and we will continue to take strong
action against firms who fail to do the right thing.”  The fine comes less than two months after the Swiss bank
agreed to pay about $1.5 billion to settle with U.S. and U.K.
regulators over manipulating interest rates to boost profits and
bonuses. In November, former UBS trader  Kweku Adoboli  was
sentenced by a London court to seven years in jail after a
$2.3 billion unauthorized trading loss. He argued at trial that
UBS managers pushed traders to take too many risks and rule-
breaking was rampant. The bank was fined 29.7 million pounds by
the FSA over control failures related to the loss.  Fund Run  Some customers were prevented from withdrawing money from
the AIG fund after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in
2008 triggering a financial crisis, the FSA said. New York-based
AIG repaid the last of its $182.3 billion U.S. government
bailout in December.  “We are pleased that we can put this issue that dates back
to 2008 behind us, so that we can continue to focus on serving
our clients and executing our strategy,” the Zurich-based bank
said in an e-mailed statement.  Clients at UBS’s London wealth-management unit were
compensated in 2009 after the former head of a trading desk was
found to have made 50 unauthorized trades a day over a two-year
period from 39 client accounts. UBS paid an 8 million pound-fine
and agreed to reimburse customers $42.4 million over the losses
that resulted in that case.  UBS sold the AIG fund to around 2,000 customers with
initial investments totaling 3.5 billion pounds between 2003 and
2008, the FSA said. About 565 customers had 816 million pounds
tied up in the fund when it collapsed.  The bank agreed to settle at an early stage of the FSA’s
investigation and qualified for a 30 percent discount on the
fine, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Moshinsky  in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 