-- Hungary Raises $3.25 Billion in Bond Sale Replacing IMF
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-02-13T17:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/hungary-registers-dollar-notes-after-21-month-eurobond-gap-1-.html
Hungary raised $3.25 billion in its
first sale of foreign bonds in 21 months, returning to the debt
market after Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  abandoned a quest for
International Monetary Fund support.  “The sale will probably improve sentiment on the
government bond market and boost the forint,”  Zoltan Arokszallasi , a Budapest-based analyst at Erste Group Bank AG,
wrote in a research report today. “The issuance greatly
improved the refinancing position and so a further foreign-
currency sale this year may not even be necessary.”  The government sold $2 billion of 10-year notes to yield
345 basis points above U.S. Treasuries and $1.25 billion of
five-year securities at a spread of 335 basis points, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The Debt Management Agency received
$12 billion in bids, Orban’s office said in an e-mailed
statement today. Yields on the notes due 2023 fell 20 basis
points to 5.219 percent, 331 basis points above the U.S.
Treasuries of similar maturity.  Hungary tapped the market after failing to obtain a
flexible credit line from the IMF during a year of disputes over
central bank independence and Orban’s measures to cut the
biggest debt burden in the east of the European Union. The
country’s debt agency plans to issue as much as 4.5 billion
euros ($6 billion) on international markets in 2013 to help
repay 5.1 billion euros in foreign-currency liabilities, the
government said in its statement today.  Bond Rally  The country’s financing costs tumbled last year as Orban
took steps to reduce debt and the U.S. Federal Reserve’s bond
buying program boosted demand for higher-yielding assets. Yields
on forint notes plunged as the Magyar Nemzeti Bank lowered the
 benchmark rate  by a cumulative 1.5 percentage points since
August to 5.5 percent, the lowest level since 2010.  Yields on Hungary’s five-year forint-denominated bonds fell
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.6 percent by
4:59 p.m. in Budapest, the lowest level in more than seven years
and down from a peak of 10.84 percent in January 2012. The
forint appreciated 0.1 percent to 289.78 per euro, the strongest
in more than a month.  “The foreign-debt sale is positive for the local debt
market as it relieves pressure on local issuance,”  Maja Goettig , Warsaw-based strategist at KBC Groep NV, wrote in an e-
mailed report today.  Liquidity Boost  The government hired BNP Paribas SA, Citigroup Inc.,
Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for the sale, the
Debt Management Agency said in an e-mailed statement.  Hungary has benefited “tremendously” from the “global
tide” of liquidity and Orban’s fiscal commitment, Iryna
Ivaschenko, the IMF’s representative in Budapest, told a
conference yesterday. The country remains “susceptible to
sudden changes in investor sentiment,” she said.  The junk-rated nation issued a record $3.75 billion of
foreign bonds in March 2011 and 1 billion euros two months later
in its previous sale on international markets. Hungary scrapped
Eurobond plans last year in anticipation of a loan from the IMF.  Turkey, which like Hungary is rated one step below
investment grade by Moody’s Investors Service, sold 10-year
dollar bonds on Jan. 8 yielding 160 basis points over
Treasuries, compared with a 377 basis-point spread at a sale of
similar-dated Turkish bonds in February 2012.  “The pricing of the bonds were not cheap when compared to
the recent dollar bond sales of emerging markets,”  Janos Samu ,
a Budapest-based economist at Concorde Ertekpapir Zrt.,
Hungary’s largest independent broker, wrote in a note today.  Orban Opportunity  Orban has nationalized privately managed pension assets,
levied special taxes on banks, telecommunications and energy
companies and forced lenders to take losses on foreign-currency
loans since taking office in 2010.  The prime minister may use the opportunity created by a
successful bond issuance for another “negative” turn in
policy, possibly by naming Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  as
central bank president,  Peter Attard Montalto , a London-based
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said by e-mail yesterday.
“We need to be on alert” after the bond sale, Montalto said.  Matolcsy has been named as the most likely successor to
central bank President  Andras Simor , who leaves office in March,
by media including the Index and vg.hu news websites.  The forint tumbled as much as 3 percent after Matolcsy said
in December that the bank should “bravely” use unorthodox
methods to bolster the economy. Hungary’s currency rebounded
after Matolcsy and the central bank’s rate-setting Monetary
Council each urged caution two weeks ago on using
“unconventional” monetary tools.  ‘Paranoia, Complacency’  Moody’s affirmed Hungary’s credit rating at Ba1 with a
negative outlook Feb. 8, saying Orban’s policies have weakened
the economy since November 2011, when it cut Hungary to one step
below investment grade.  Hungary’s financing needs in 2013 are the largest among its
peers in central and eastern Europe, at an estimated 19 percent
of gross domestic product, according to Moody’s. The debt agency
has raised more than 1 billion euros from euro-denominated
inflation-linked bonds sold under Hungarian law and also
increased sales of forint-based notes to households.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps was little changed at 291 basis points,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A sale at these yields, despite Hungary’s much more
pronounced idiosyncratic risks, speaks volumes about how market
conditions have changed over the past several months,”  Nicholas Spiro , managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy Ltd. in
London, said by e-mail. “The pendulum of sentiment towards
Hungary has swung from paranoia to complacency.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  