-- Hungary's Central Banker Clashes With Audit Office
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2013-02-12T11:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/hungary-s-central-banker-clashes-with-audit-office.html
Hungary’s central bank rejected
policy suggestions by the State Audit Office, saying the
findings of a report by the watchdog were flawed and interfered
with the bank’s independence.  It’s “strange” for the audit office to be found advising
the Magyar Nemzeti Bank in a report on the “budgetary risks”
of monetary policy, Governor  Andras Simor  said in a  letter 
published on the bank’s website yesterday.  The audit office “would transcend its mandate and run
counter to European Union” regulations and Hungary’s central
bank law by “evaluating the central bank’s basic operations,
including monetary policy or the management of foreign
reserves,” Simor wrote.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is set to pick a new central
bank chief as Simor’s six-year mandate expires next month. The
central bank should pursue a “conservative” policy course and
avoid “surprises,” Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  said Jan.
30 after earlier calling for the “brave” use of “unorthodox”
monetary-policy tools to boost the economy.  The management of foreign-currency reserves carries a
“significantly large risk” of making the central bank
unprofitable and forcing the government to plug the deficit, the
audit office said in a report published on its  website . The
report also suggests limiting commercial lenders’ access to two-
week central bank bonds to reduce interest payments.  The forint fell 0.2 percent to 291.39 per euro by 12:58
p.m. in Budapest, weakening for the first time in four days.  Bonds, Reserves  Limiting the amount of two-week bonds sold to commercial
lenders would be tantamount to monetary easing that is currently
“incompatible” with the central bank’s goals, while failing to
boost financing for the economy, Simor said.  Cutting the level of foreign reserves hinges on a decline
of the country’s foreign-debt level and vulnerability, according
to the letter.  “Decreasing the risk premium paid by the Hungarian state
is the most efficient tool to cut the cost of maintaining
foreign-currency reserves,” it said.  Widening the central bank’s “unconventional” policy
toolkit is only useful in the event of “acute financial-market
turmoil,” the Monetary Council said in a statement after a Jan.
29 rate decision.  The government wants to stimulate an economy mired in
recession with elections scheduled for next year. Orban said he
would name his nominee to succeed Simor one day before his
mandate expires on March 3.  The “worst-case scenario” under new leadership would be
the “appropriation” of foreign-currency reserves to repay
external debt, analysts at  Morgan Stanley  said in an e-mail on
Jan. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  