-- Unitech Tumbles as Prosecutor Removed From 2G Case
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-02-12T06:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/unitech-tumbles-as-prosecutor-removed-from-2g-case.html
Unitech Ltd. , charged with
corruption over the allocation of Indian phone licenses in 2008,
plunged the most in more than two years amid reports its chief
executive discussed strategy with the prosecutor in the case.  The  Central Bureau of Investigation  said in a statement
yesterday that a public prosecutor was removed from the trial’s
prosecution team after the lawyer shared his strategy for the
case. The nation’s chief auditor said in a report that the sale
of the permits was “arbitrary and lacked transparency,” and
may have caused the public exchequer a loss of $31 billion in
potential revenue.  Unitech, an Indian real estate developer, tumbled as much
as 25 percent, the most since Nov. 26, 2010, to 26.3 rupees in
Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The shares
traded at 28.30 rupees as of 11:51 a.m. local time. The  BSE
India Realty Index , a gauge representing the performance of 11
local developers, fell 4.9 percent and was headed for the
biggest loss in almost a year.  CNN-IBN, a television channel, last night played an audio
tape of an alleged conversation between the prosecutor and an
individual purportedly  Sanjay Chandra , managing director of
Unitech, revealing details of how a prosecution witness would
depose in the hearing.  Chandra, who has denied any wrongdoing in the case and is
out on bail, didn’t answer a call to his mobile phone. Tanuja
Kehar, a spokeswoman for the company, didn’t answer two calls to
her cell phone.  The Press Trust of India reported separately that the
alleged conversation happened in September, eight months after
the Supreme Court canceled 122 licenses including spectrum held
by the venture Unitech Wireless, saying several bidders at the
2008 sale had “money power” and the “ability to manipulate
the system.”  A New Delhi special court in 2011 had charged a former
telecommunications minister, a lawmaker, five executives of
phone carriers and three companies - Unitech Wireless, Swan
Telecom Pvt. and Reliance Telecom Ltd., a unit of billionaire
 Anil Ambani ’s Reliance Communications Ltd.  DB Realty, whose officials were among those charged,
slumped as much as 20 percent and traded at 98.80 rupees, while
Reliance Communications dropped 4.1 percent to 72 rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  