-- Huntsman Says DuPont Pigment Plant To Add to Oversupply
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2013-02-12T22:26:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/huntsman-says-dupont-pigment-plant-to-add-to-oversupply.html
Huntsman Corp. , the third-biggest
producer of titanium dioxide, said DuPont Co. should further
delay the start of new capacity for the white pigment known as
TiO2 to avoid aggravating an industry over-supply.  DuPont probably won’t start production from a proposed TiO2
plant in Altamira, Mexico, until early 2016, Huntsman Chief
Executive Officer  Peter Huntsman  said by phone today. DuPont,
the world’s biggest TiO2 maker, said on Feb. 7 that production
from the new line will be delayed as long as 12 months until
sometime in 2015 because of weak demand.  “I’m still surprised they are going forward with that
plant,” Huntsman said in the interview. “The industry needs
that tonnage like they need a hole in the head.”  DuPont remains confident in the Altamira investment and the
timing of the expansion, Mike Hanretta, a DuPont spokesman, said
today by phone.  Demand for TiO2, used to add opacity and whiteness to
paints and plastics, won’t return to 2010 levels for a year or
two, the CEO said. Pigment margins will contract in the first
quarter on falling prices, he said.  Prices  and sales volumes
should improve starting in the second quarter, he said.  “The second quarter will certainly be stronger than first
quarter, and subsequently the third and fourth quarters stronger
yet,” Huntsman said in the interview.  Pigment Drop  Pigment unit earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization may fall to about $200 million in 2013, from
$362 million last year, Huntsman said on a call with analysts
today. That may wipe out what should be a “record year” in the
other businesses and cause Ebitda to drop from $1.4 billion in
2012, the CEO said.  The average estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for 2013 Ebitda of $1.31 billion.  Profit in the advanced materials unit will rise in 2013 and
the textiles effect unit will turn profitable, Huntsman said.
Profit from polyurethanes will be unchanged as improved demand
for insulation helps makes up for $90 million in lower profit
from fuel additives, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  