-- Turkey Stocks Rise as Fitch Says Anti-Terror Law Cuts Risk
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-02-12T16:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/turkey-stocks-rise-as-fitch-says-risk-reduced-on-anti-terror-law.html
Turkish  stocks  rose, led by banks,
after Fitch Ratings said the country’s adoption of anti-
terrorism financing legislation reduced the risk of market
access for entities including the sovereign.  The Istanbul Stock Exchange National 100 Index added 1.1
percent to 78,078.81 points at the close in Istanbul, climbing
the most since Feb. 1. The 16-member banking gauge increased by
1.6 percent.  Parliament’s Feb. 8 adoption of anti-terrorism financing
legislation “reduces the risk of suspension” from the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s
Financial Action Task Force, Fitch said in a statement today.
Failure to pass the legislation “could have disrupted access to
financial markets” for Turkish entities, it said. One of the
“key assumptions” underlying Turkey’s lifting to investment
grade was avoiding any potential sanctions, the rating company
said.  “The Fitch statement seems to have acted as an occasion to
buy,”  Bulent Sengonul , an analyst at Is Investment in Istanbul,
said by phone today. “This in essence is a reaction to the
correction of the past few weeks.”  Turkish stocks have dropped 9.7 percent from their high on
Jan. 24, bringing their loss on the year to 0.2 percent.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS , co-owned by Spain’s BBVA SA,
surged 2.9 percent.  Akbank TAS , the lender part-owned by
Citigroup Inc., advanced 1.2 percent.  Turkiye Vakiflar Bankasi
TAO  advanced 1.5 percent, extending this year’s gains to 15
percent.  Turkiye Is Bankasi  AS rose 1.3 percent while  Yapi ve
Kredi Bankasi AS , co-owned by UniCredit SpA, added 1.2 percent.  FATF warned Turkey in October that it risked being
suspended from the organization if it failed to pass the law by
Feb. 22.  Fitch upgraded Turkey’s credit rating in November, giving
the nation its first investment-grade rating since 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  