-- Value Gains Favor With Wall Street Strategists: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-02-12T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/value-gains-favor-with-wall-street-strategists-chart-of-the-day.html
“Now is an opportune time for
investors to shift their focus to value” when looking at U.S.
stocks, according to  Brian Belski , chief investment strategist
at BMO Capital Markets.  As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, Belski’s recommendation
reflects a transition that started last year. Shares with low
prices relative to sales, earnings and asset values are faring
better than those of faster-growing companies, according to a
comparison of Standard & Poor’s 500 value and growth indexes.  The ratio between these indexes, which the New York-based
analyst cited in a Feb. 8 report, has climbed 7.6 percent from
last year’s low. Even so, it’s below the average end-of-month
reading for the past 20 years, as displayed in the chart.  Belski isn’t alone among market strategists in preferring
value to growth. Wells Fargo & Co.’s  Gina Martin Adams , also
based in New York, wrote yesterday in a report that she saw last
year’s shift toward value stocks as a turning point.  “We suspect value will continue to have the edge over
growth in the months ahead,” she wrote. Shrinking productivity
gains point to that conclusion, the report said, as they weigh
more heavily on growth companies. Fourth-quarter productivity
rose from a year earlier by 0.6 percent, trailing the third
quarter’s 1.8 percent gain, Labor Department data showed.  Belski wrote that a brighter earnings outlook will help
value stocks extend their gains. Analysts anticipate 7 percent
profit growth for companies in the S&P 500 Value Index, beating
a 2.7 percent increase for the growth index, according to data
cited in the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  