-- Wal-Mart Clinics Trail CVS Reaping 39% Growth: Retail
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-02-13T02:37:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/wal-mart-medical-clinics-trail-cvs-generating-39-growth-retail.html
(Corrects order of name in 20th paragraph.)  In 2007,  Lee Scott , then Wal-Mart
Stores Inc.’s chief executive officer, trumpeted plans to open
as many as 2,000 in-house medical clinics by mid-2012. He called
the strategy “a great opportunity for our business.”  Today  Wal-Mart  has fewer than 130 clinics and is closing
locations faster than it’s opening them. Meanwhile,  CVS Caremark
Corp. , which already has about 630 MinuteClinics, is opening
about three a week, and aims to have 1,500 within four years.
It’s promoting the clinics heavily on TV and the Web. While
industry figures are hard to come by, CVS says its clinic
business has grown at a compound annual rate of 39 percent in
the last six years.  Wal-Mart, which farmed out the operation of the clinics to
third-party operators, hasn’t adequately promoted its clinics to
shoppers or made it easy for them to pick up their
prescriptions. Thomas Charland, who runs Merchant Medicine, a
research and consulting firm specializing in walk-in health
care, has heard “lots of complaints” from operators that they
get little support from Wal-Mart, and he characterized the
company’s efforts as “trial and failure.”  It’s not as though Scott’s “great opportunity” no longer
exists. As key parts of the Patient Protection and Affordable
Care Act start phasing in next year, some 30 million newly
insured Americans will be looking for care amid a doctor
shortage. Clinics, generally open after-hours and on weekends,
minister to patients with minor illnesses and injuries as well
as provide vaccinations, physicals and chronic disease
monitoring. The clinics are usually staffed by nurse
practitioners or physician assistants and typically charge $60
for an exam, which most insurers cover.  More Clinics  CVS , which has the fourth-highest average analyst
recommendation in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, is trading at
a 7.4 percent  premium  to Wal-Mart on a price-to-earnings basis,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Wal-Mart was little
changed at $71.39 at 10:52 a.m. in New York today.  Wal-Mart is “always looking for new ways to provide
affordable health services and products to our customers,”
including a program that offers prescription drugs for $4, Danit
Marquardt, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. She didn’t
answer questions about the clinic strategy.  Scott, who still sits on the Wal-Mart  board , was onto
something back in 2007 when he told the 1,600 business and
government leaders assembled at the World Health Care Congress
in Washington that “we know that customers like and want these
clinics.” They generate sales because patients typically fill
their prescriptions at the in-store pharmacy and then may buy
other merchandise. At the same time, Americans are programmed to
demand convenience. Health care is no different.  Strep Throat  Last week, Nicky Creamer, a 42-year-old stay-at-home mother
of two, dropped by a CVS MinuteClinic in Chicago because she
thought she might have strep throat.  “It’s just so fast and easy instead of a doctor,” said
Creamer, who lives around the corner from the CVS, which charges
$27 for a strep throat test.  CVS Chief Executive Officer  Larry Merlo  said in the
company’s Feb. 6 earnings call that comparable MinuteClinic
sales surged more than 38 percent compared with the fourth
quarter of last year and that patient visits had reached
unprecedented daily levels.  “You can see why they’re investing,” said Charland, whose
research firm is based in Shoreview, Minnesota. “It’s becoming
a no-brainer for them. You start to ask yourself: Why are other
major players sitting on the sidelines?”  Independent Operators  Unlike CVS which runs its own clinics, Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart leased space to independent operators.
Bellin Health System, a health-care provider based in Green Bay,
Wisconsin, opened and operated them in at least six stores in
Idaho, Illinois and Texas between 2010 and 2012, according to
Kenneth Berndt, who was then Bellin’s director of business
development. Since then four have closed, he said.  The world’s largest retailer didn’t advertise the clinics
or allow outdoor signs for them, said Berndt, who is now chief
executive officer of Danville, Pennsylvania-based Geisinger
Careworks, the retail clinic division of Geisinger Health
System. Wal-Mart’s pharmacies also kept clinic patients waiting
for their prescriptions, he said.  “People would come back to the clinic complaining they’d
been waiting an hour,” Berndt said. “When you’re sick, you
just want to go home and get in bed. Next time, they’ll say,
’where can I get this done the quickest?’”  In-store pharmacies at Berndt’s other clients, which
include grocery chains, “fill them right away and people are
out of there in five minutes,” he said.  Clinic Landlord  Wal-Mart has reversed course on the opening of some new
clinics and has 26 fewer today than it had a year ago, according
to Merchant Medicine. That leaves Berndt and Charland wondering
what the company’s strategy will be going forward.  “It didn’t seem to be what the administration of Wal-Mart
wanted,” Berndt said. “They were a landlord, not a partner.”  Charland said Wal-Mart is accustomed to “figuring
something out, repeating it and perfecting it.” With more than
60 individual operators handling care in states that have their
own health regulations, widespread standardization is not easily
attainable, said Charland.  Meanwhile,  CVS  is doubling down. About 85 percent of
MinuteClinic patients use some type of insurance, and demand for
clinics will grow as more Americans gain coverage,  Dr. Andrew
Sussman, the president of MinuteClinic, said in a telephone
interview.  Clinics will serve as an overflow outlet as a limited
number of primary-care doctors struggle to treat an aging U.S.
population suffering various chronic diseases, Sussman said. The
Association of American Medical Colleges expects the U.S. to be
short about 45,000 primary care physicians by 2020.  Doctor Crunch  Faye Yang, a 34-year-old pharmacist at a CVS in Chicago,
said she already has noticed the crunch.  “Here you can pop in at your leisure,” Yang said as she
waited for her annual physical at a MinuteClinic in Chicago.
“Doctors’ offices are inundated with requests.”  While CVS has surged ahead in its clinic growth,  Target
Corp.  and Walgreen Co., have maintained steady progress. Both
retailers are poised for more aggressive approaches.  Dr. Kevin Ronneberg, associate medical director for Target,
said the company has “plans for continued expansion at a more
rapid pace than you have seen.”  “We’re at a point where continued investment and expansion
makes a lot of sense,” Ronneberg said.  The Minneapolis-based retailer, with more than 1,700 stores
nationally, has opened 53 clinics in six states since 2006. It
plans to open 14 this year and is taking its time to better
understand the business and the markets, Ronneberg said.  Better Chances  “It gives us better chances of being successful,” he
said. “We have not backed out of anywhere yet.”  Walgreen exploded from about 40 clinics in the beginning of
2007 to 355 by the end of 2009, according to Merchant Medicine.
Its growth halted in the years that followed amid the recession,
and the Deerfield, Illinois-based company now has 364 clinics in
its more than 8,500 stores nationally.  Peter Hotz, vice president of the chain’s Take Care Health
Systems, said  Walgreen  is gearing up for the number of clinics
to “grow significantly.” He declined to give specific numbers.  “Everyone who plays in this space is expecting a big bump
on January 1, 2014,” Hotz said, referring to the date when the
Americans will be required to hold health insurance under the
federal health-care law. “With President Obama being re-
elected, it’s full-steam ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  