-- WellPoint Names Swedish From Trinity Health as New CEO
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-02-13T21:36:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/wellpoint-names-swedish-from-trinity-health-as-new-ceo.html
WellPoint Inc. , the second-biggest
U.S. health insurer, picked a new chief executive officer from
outside the industry who says his work with hospitals and
doctors will help smooth the insurer’s path in a time of change.  WellPoint named  Joseph Swedish , 61, CEO of the nonprofit
Catholic hospital system  Trinity Health Corp ., as its next
leader after a six-month search. He replaces  Angela Braly , who
left WellPoint last year amid investor discontent over the
Indianapolis-based insurer’s performance.  The insurer fell the most in three months in New York
trading, with analysts saying the pick wasn’t likely to go down
well with shareholders. Swedish lacks the extensive insurance
experience that investors were looking for to turn around a
company that has struggled to control medical costs and meet
profit forecasts, said  Carl McDonald , a Citigroup analyst based
in New York.  “Swedish may ultimately be viewed as the best CEO in the
history of managed care,” McDonald wrote in a note to clients
today. “But it’s likely going to take the market some time to
figure out if that’s the case,” he said.  The concern with picking a hospital CEO to run WellPoint is
that almost all of the company’s earnings and “problem areas”
come from the health insurance business, McDonald wrote.  Shares Fall  WellPoint, the top  seller  of small business and individual
plans, fell 4.6 percent to $63 at the close in New York, for its
biggest one-day drop since Nov. 7. The new CEO will be under
pressure as the U.S. health-care law transforms insurance
markets starting next year, said  Sheryl Skolnick , an analyst at
CRT Capital Group in Stamford, Connecticut.  “I don’t think this is the time to experiment,” Skolnick
said in a telephone interview. “Bringing a little hospital
knowledge to a health plan won’t hurt. But not hurting, in my
view, isn’t enough.”  Swedish headed Livonia, Michigan-based  Trinity Health , a
system of 47 hospitals in 10 states, since December 2004. He
said his hospital experience and financial results were plenty
relevant to the health-insurance industry.  ‘Fundamental Shifts’  “There are some very fundamental shifts going on that
represent a convergence of the provider and payer sectors,”
Swedish said yesterday in an interview. He plans to focus on
tighter coordination with doctors, investing in information
technology to help consumers learn more about their care choices
and working to bring medical costs down.  Swedish said his first job when he takes over March 25 is
reassuring WellPoint’s  investors .  “What I’ll be working on in the coming weeks and months is
developing a significant, credible, strong story regarding the
growth and performance of this company,” Swedish said. “That’s
what the investor community wants to hear. I think they want to
get a strong sense that we are in fact predictable and
reliable.”  Mark Giambrone , a portfolio manager at WellPoint’s biggest
shareholder, Dallas-based Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss,
said he didn’t know enough about Swedish to comment.  Rouven Wool-Lewis , an analyst at another major holder, Baltimore-based
T. Rowe Price Group Inc., said WellPoint deserves the benefit of
the doubt given Swedish’s track record.  ‘Deep Experience’  “It’s someone with deep health-care experience and deep
experience as a CEO,” Wool-Lewis said in a phone interview.
“If you get someone who’s a strong operator, they can surround
themselves with good people.”  The mutual fund firm held 3.87 million WellPoint shares, or
1.3 percent of the  total , according to a Sept. 30 regulatory
filing. Barrow Hanley has 18.13 million shares, or 6 percent of
the company, according to its latest filings.  Before Swedish’s selection yesterday, investors and
analysts had focused on industry candidates, including  Ronald Williams , the retired head of insurer Aetna Inc., and  James Carlson , who ran the Medicaid insurer Amerigroup Corp. and
engineered the sale of his company last year to WellPoint for
$4.9 billion. Also rumored was interim CEO  John Cannon , who
served as WellPoint’s general counsel and will remain with the
company.  WellPoint  shares  have declined 2.6 percent over the past 12
months through yesterday, even as the top U.S. insurer,
 UnitedHealth Group Inc.  of Minnetonka, Minnesota,  rose  6.3
percent.  Non-Issue  Swedish said his lack of recent for-profit experience
wasn’t an issue. “We may have been non-tax, but that doesn’t
mean we were nonprofit,” Swedish said of his time at Trinity.
“Our performance statistics rivaled most organizations, even
the investor-owned. I’m not going to hide from that fact.”  WellPoint will pay Swedish a salary of $1.25 million, with
a bonus of as much as $3.75 million more, according to a company
filing with U.S. regulators. He will also get stock options this
year worth as much as $8 million and $3.56 million to compensate
for leaving Trinity.  It’s not clear whether Carlson, of Amerigroup, will stay
after not getting the top job. He signed a two-year contract to
remain with WellPoint after the deal closed in December. The
contract allows for the two sides to part under “changed
circumstances,” Citigroup’s McDonald said.  “In any combination of companies some turnover is
inevitable, we are pleased that Amerigroup’s top talent has
remained to lead the combined Medicaid business,” said  Kristin Binns , a WellPoint spokeswoman. “ Dick Zoretic  heads Medicaid
for WellPoint, and has an outstanding team of leaders to assist
him,” she said, referring to another Amerigroup executive who
joined WellPoint. “Any additional organizational details will
be determined at a later date.”  Hospital Deal  As Trinity’s CEO, Swedish helped engineer a merger with
Catholic Health East, which will make the new hospital group the
fifth-largest U.S. based health system, WellPoint said in its
statement. Trinity also runs a health insurance program called
Mount Carmel Health Plan, which proves a Medicare Advantage
program in Ohio.  “This is a guy who knows how to manage, with intense
experience, at the provider level and he’s a great spokesperson
and advocate,” said  Michael Stocker , former president and CEO
of WellPoint’s east region, who served with Swedish on the board
of directors of Coventry Health Care Inc. “I think it’s a good
choice.”  Industry Praise  The selection of Swedish also was praised by  Richard Umbdenstock , chief executive officer of the American Hospital
Association, an industry trade group, who also has worked with
the incoming WellPoint CEO.  “We’re seeing real pickup in the number of insurers and
providers getting closer together to try to figure out how to
marry their respective strengths into better management of care
and better outcomes at lower cost,” he said in a telephone
interview. “I think it’s a bold move on their part.”  Prior to joining Trinity, Swedish served as CEO at Centura
Health, a faith-based nonprofit and Colorado’s largest family of
hospitals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. He has been
a board member at Coventry, in Bethesda, Maryland, since
February 2010.  Braly, appointed WellPoint CEO in 2007, was ousted last
year after investors expressed discontent with her management.
She resigned on Aug. 28, a month after the company missed
analysts’ profit estimates for the second time in three
quarters. It was the latest misstep in a tenure marked by
difficulties with predicting medical costs and setting premiums.  WellPoint traded at a 2 percent  premium  to the Standard &
Poor’s 500 index of the top six health insurers when Braly took
over as chairman on March 1, 2010. When she departed, it changed
hands at a 17 percent discount, suggesting investors’ waning
confidence. The company lost about $9 billion of its value
during that time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  