-- Wells Fargo Settlement Isn’t Bar to False Claims Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-02-13T00:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/wells-fargo-settlement-no-bar-to-false-claims-suit-judge-rules.html
Wells Fargo & Co. ’s argument that it
can’t be sued by the U.S. over illegal mortgage practices
because of an earlier deal with the government was rejected by a
federal judge as a misreading of the settlement terms.  U.S. District Judge  Rosemary Collyer , in a ruling today in
Washington, said the $25 billion agreement Wells and four other
banks made with the Justice Department in April didn’t release
Wells from facing allegations by the U.S. attorney in New York
in a separate False Claims Act lawsuit filed in October.  “The court finds that the release is clear and
unambiguous, as evidenced by its plain language,” Collyer
wrote. “The plain language of the release governs, and it does
not have the meaning ascribed to it by Wells Fargo.”  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, declined to comment on Collyer’s ruling.  Wells Fargo agreed to pay $5 billion as its share of the
April settlement over abusive foreclosure practices.  The New York lawsuit alleges misconduct spanning more than
a decade related to the bank’s participation in a  Federal
Housing Administration  program. The government claims that Wells
Fargo made reckless mortgage loans that caused caused losses for
FHA when they defaulted.  The suit is part of a larger effort by the U.S. to recoup
losses from defaulted mortgages that were insured by FHA.  The Washington case is U.S. v. Bank of America, 12-cv-361,
U.S. District Court, District of Columbia (Washington). The New
York case is U.S. v. Wells Fargo Bank NA, 12-cv-7527, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Zajac  in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fred Strasser at 
 fstrasser@bloomberg.net  