-- Wheelchair Tennis Player Vergeer Retires With 10-Year Win Streak
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-12T19:24:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/wheelchair-tennis-player-vergeer-retires-with-10-year-win-streak.html
Esther Vergeer of the Netherlands
said she’s retiring as a professional wheelchair tennis player
after winning 470 straight matches during the last 10 years and
a total of 169 tournament championships.  Vergeer, 31, won all 21 of the sport’s Grand Slam singles
events she entered in an 18-year career and four gold medals in
the Paralympic Games. Her final defeat came against Daniela di
Toro in Sydney in 2003.  She announced the retirement on Twitter and confirmed it
while unveiling her biography in Rotterdam, where she’s the
tournament director of this week’s ABN AMRO world wheelchair
tennis tournament.  “I’m hugely proud of my performances, my titles, and can
look back on my career with a great feeling,” Vergeer said in a
statement on the International Tennis Federation  website .
“Keeping going would not add anything. I want to do more work
with my foundation and get more disabled children in action.”  Pakistan squash player Jahangir Khan is the only
professional athlete known to have a longer winning streak than
Vergeer, with 555 consecutive victories between 1981 and 1986,
the ITF said.  “Esther Vergeer is a tremendous ambassador not only for
tennis but also for disability sports,” ITF President  Francesco Ricci Bitti  said in a  statement . “She is an inspiration.”  Vergeer was 8 when she lost the use of her legs following
surgery to repair a life-threatening spinal defect. She started
to play wheelchair tennis at 12, according to the  WTA Tour , and
went on to compile a 700-25 record as a professional.  Winning Streak  In the last 10 years, Vergeer won 120 consecutive
tournaments and faced just one match point during that stretch,
against Korie Homan in the final at the 2008 Paralympics in
Beijing. Vergeer spent 668 weeks as the No. 1 player in the
world.  Vergeer also won 158 doubles titles, including 23 of the 26
Grand Slam tournaments she entered, along with three gold medals
in doubles at the Paralympic Games.  “Beyond the statistics, she has served as an inspiration
for generations of not just tennis players, but women of all
ages,” said  Stacey Allaster , chief executive officer of the WTA
women’s tennis tour. “Esther, like the WTA’s founder  Billie Jean King , shares the clear vision about the potential that
women not only have in sport, but in society. And she delivered
this motivating message every time she stepped on the court.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  