-- Ex-Penn Final Four Basketball Player Slain; Wife Charged
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-02-12T20:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/wife-of-former-upenn-basketball-star-charged-with-his-murder.html
The wife of former University of
Pennsylvania basketball player Matthew White, who played on the
Ivy League school’s 1979 Final Four team, was charged with
stabbing him to death as he slept.  White’s wife, Maria Reyes Garcia-Pellon, was charged with
first-degree murder, criminal homicide and possessing an
instrument of crime, according to documents filed in state court
in Media, Pennsylvania. Garcia-Pellon, 53, is being held in
Delaware County jail without bail. It’s unclear whether she has
retained an attorney, County District Attorney  Jack Whelan  said
in an interview.  Police arrested Garcia-Pellon yesterday at about 12:44 p.m.
as she returned to the home she shared with White in Nether
Providence Township, about 20 miles (32 kilometers) southwest of
Philadelphia. Garcia-Pellon told police she stabbed White after
she caught him looking at “pornography, young girls,”
according to court papers.  “I love kids. I had to do it,” Garcia-Pellon told police,
according to court documents.  White was discovered on the couple’s bed with a stab wound
to the neck. Garcia-Pellon told police that sometime between
midnight and 1 a.m. she left her bedroom and went to the kitchen
to retrieve a glass of water and two knives. She hid the knives
on her side of the bed and waited until White fell asleep. She
then stabbed him in the neck, according to the documents.  ‘I’m Dying’  White awoke and began struggling. Garcia-Pellon told police
White said, “I’m dying, I’m dying,” before he collapsed on the
bed, according to the documents.  Garcia-Pellon changed her clothes and went to the home of a
friend, who later called the authorities, according to the court
documents.  White played center on the Penn team that made it to the
semifinals of the National Collegiate Athletic Association
basketball championship in 1979. Philadelphia-based Penn was the
last Ivy League team to advance that far, losing 101-67 to a
Michigan State University squad led by  Magic Johnson , according
to a history on the school’s website. Michigan State went on to
win the championship.  Cornell was the most recent Ivy League school to advance in
the tournament, reaching the third round as a No. 12 seed in
2010 before losing to the University of Kentucky. Harvard
University lost to Vanderbilt University in the first round last
year.  Campus Event  White, who played for Penn from 1976 until 1979, was on
campus this month for an alumni event around its Feb. 2 game
against Cornell.  “We are greatly saddened to hear about the death of Matt
White, and shocked by the details emerging about his death,”
 Steve Bilsky , Penn’s athletic director, said in an e-mailed
statement. “For Penn fans, Matt is a reminder of some of the
greatest days of our historic men’s basketball program. He was a
beloved member of the Penn men’s basketball family right up
until his death.”  White was selected by the Portland Trail Blazers in the
fifth round of the 1979 National Basketball Association draft.
He played 12 seasons in Spain, according to the Daily
Pennsylvanian, Penn’s independent student newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  