-- Will Oldham ‘Prince’ Taps Gershwin, Mel Gibson in Concert
-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2013-02-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/will-oldham-prince-taps-gershwin-mel-gibson-in-concert.html
Where did Will Oldham’s woozy
lullabies, foggy dirges and hillside hymns come from?  The songs he writes under the name Bonnie “Prince” Billy
-- about kings, floozies, wolves,  gin  and flesh -- sound more
disinterred than made. It is ancient music.  Oldham played on Feb. 7 in front of the Allen Room’s
windowed wall in Manhattan’s Time Warner Center. He was there
for Lincoln Center’s  American Songbook  series, scheduled between
tributes this month to the “Chicago” duo John Kander and Fred
Ebb, and “God Bless America” belter Kate Smith.  His music wasn’t made for Broadway or cabaret. Oldham sings
as if he were raised in quarries and fields, not Tin Pan Alley
(born in 1970, he grew up in Louisville, Kentucky).  Still, like the American Songbook’s best  Cole Porter 
laments, Bonnie “Prince” Billy songs have their own undertow
and tide. Last week some lulled, some lured, others dazzled, the
best capsized.  Speaking about his work to a  packed  room in Brooklyn’s
 BookCourt  bookstore the night before the concert, he said he
felt kinship with George and Ira Gerwshin’s  work .  “They are problems presented and problems
solved,” Oldham said about the brothers’ songs. “You’ll never
know exactly how or why the mystery arose, or exactly how or why
it was solved.”  Musical Footnotes  In the Allen Room, Oldham sang from 20 years of his albums,
including the mesmerizing “ I Called You Back ” and the
kindhearted “ New Partner .”  Oldham’s references somersault and swerve, touching on the
doomed country singer  Patsy Cline , the R&B genius R. Kelly
(whose “ Trapped in the Closet ” video Oldham appeared in), the
Townes Van Zandt and  Johnny Cash  collaborator Jack Clement, and
underappreciated soul singer Bobby Bland.  Even the bleakest Oldham songs have rhythm and humor. He
introduced “ The Risen Lord ,” based on a D.H. Lawrence poem,
with a story about heat stroke, Mexico, hallucinogens, spoiled
mayonnaise, bathroom walls and “Lethal Weapon 4.”  Against the cityscape outside, the red light on a guitar
amplifier seemed to glow at the end of a line of traffic lights
shivering on Central Park South.  With clouds gathering for the weekend snow storm, Oldham’s
“ Death to Everyone ” and “ You Will Miss Me When I Burn ” were
unnerving.  These are songs that have slept alone in dark hollows and
in the pines.  ( Max Abelson  is a reporter for Bloomberg News, where he
writes about Wall Street. Any opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Philip Boroff on  theater , Farah
Nayeri and Catherine Hickley on  film .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  