-- Twitter, Facebook Influence Share-Price Moves, Study Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-02-12T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/twitter-facebook-influence-share-price-moves-study-says.html
Posts on social networks such as
Twitter Inc. and  Facebook Inc.  can affect stock prices as more
investors start to monitor the information, according to
research from Colt Technology Services.  Colt, which based its research on responses from 360 U.K.
financial-services workers, said 63 percent agreed that the
valuation of individual shares can be directly linked to
sentiment on social media. Still, only 7 percent would base
trading decisions on information gleaned from the websites, Hugh
Cumberland, Solution Manager, Payment & Settlement Services at
Colt, said in an interview. About 45 percent regarded social
media as a trailing indicator and used them to validate their
trading decisions, he said.  “The numbers demonstrate the immaturity of the area,”
Cumberland said. “Addressing anxiety over data integrity
requires confidence that the tools can accurately separate
credible data from the general social noise, along with
maliciously generated content.”  Rogue traders, corruption, money laundering and tax fraud
can trigger the greatest short-term losses on companies’ shares,
according to a December review of how crises affect listed firms
and the make-up of their boards. So-called behavioral crises
“spook markets the most,” with shares at times falling by more
than 50 percent on news breaking of company or employee
misconduct, according to the report by law firm  Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer LLP .  DCM Capital, a London-based company formerly known as
Derwent Capital Markets, started a hedge fund using social media
to gauge sentiment in August 2011. The Derwent Absolute Return
Fund closed three months later. Last month, the company opened a
spread-betting platform called  DCM Dealer  that included a
feature to calculate sentiment for individual stocks, indexes
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  