-- South Korean Stocks Fall, Bonds Gain After North’s Nuclear Test
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S e y o o n   K i m
-- 2013-02-12T07:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/won-touches-one-week-low-on-concern-north-readying-nuclear-test.html
South Korea’s stocks declined and
government bonds gained after North Korea conducted its third
nuclear test, raising political tensions on the peninsula. The
won strengthened.  The underground test was conducted at 11:57 a.m. local
time, South Korea’s national security adviser Chun Yung Woo said
in a televised briefing today. North Korea detonated a “small,
light” atomic bomb with high explosive capability, the official
Korean Central News Agency said in a statement.  The benchmark  Kospi index  of shares retreated as much as
0.4 percent from Feb. 8 and closed 0.3 percent lower at 1,945.79
in Seoul. The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent bonds due
September 2017 dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, from Feb. 8 to 2.83 percent, Korea Exchange Inc. prices
show. The won gained 0.5 percent to close at 1,090.69 per
dollar. South Korea’s financial markets were closed yesterday
for the Lunar New Year holiday.  “This could be a drag on sentiment for a couple of days,
but I think the impact will be limited,” said Heo Pil Seok,
chief executive officer at Midas International Asset Management
Ltd. in Seoul, which oversees about $5.3 billion. “We’ve seen
this happening before, and there’s no reason for now to believe
this test is more harmful and aggressive than previous ones.”  South Korea’s defense-related stocks rallied on speculation
geopolitical tensions on the peninsula may increase. Victek Co.,
a maker of electronic warfare equipment, jumped 15 percent,
while Firstec Co., a manufacturer of components for helicopters
and armored vehicles, surged 13 percent.  Rate Outlook  One-month implied volatility for the won, a measure of
expected moves in exchange rates used to price options, fell six
basis points to 7.95 percent from Feb. 8.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. altered its interest-rate forecast
for South Korea from no change this year to a 25 basis point cut
in the first half, according to a research note released today.
Fourteen of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect the
central bank to hold its benchmark rate at 2.75 percent on Feb.
14. One predicts a reduction to 2.50 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Seyoon Kim in Seoul at 
 skim7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  