-- Wrestling May Be Cut From 2020 Olympics Program, IOC Says
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-12T16:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/wrestling-cut-from-2020-olympics-program-associated-press-says.html
The International Olympic
Committee’s executive board voted to drop wrestling from the
program for the 2020 Summer Games as the body tries to keep the
event fresh, a spokesman said.  The recommendation by the 15-member board will be reviewed
and then a final vote will be held in September. Wrestling will
get a chance to rally support and will be among eight sports
vying for inclusion at the 2020 Games, IOC spokesman  Mark Adams 
said at a press conference in Lausanne, Switzerland.  “This program is about renewing or trying to renew the
program for the Olympic Games,” Adams said. “We’re looking for
the 25 core sports: What is the program that works best for the
Olympic Games?”  The IOC panel reviewed a report from the organization’s
program commission, which assessed each of the 26 sports at last
year’s London Games. The board decided to cut wrestling and keep
modern pentathlon, which had been one of the sports considered
for removal. The IOC systematically reviews every event
following games.  The report analyzed almost  40 criteria  including television
appeal, anti-corruption practices and popularity. The IOC wants
to add a sport to the 2020 Games and plans to remove one of the
current events. Wrestling will still be automatically included
on the list of candidate sports to be added in 2020.  “It’s not a case of what’s wrong with wrestling, but
instead what’s right for the 25 sports for the Olympic
program,” Adams said.  ‘Greatly Astonished’  The International Federation of Associated Wrestling
Styles, known as FILA, said it was “greatly astonished” by the
recommendation, and that it would work to convince the IOC to
keep the sport, which consists of two disciplines: Greco-Roman,
where athletes use their upper bodies and arms only, and
freestyle, where athletes can use any part of their bodies.  Russia won 11 wrestling medals at the London Games last
year, with four golds. Japan also had four gold medalists and
six total medals, while Iran had three golds among six won in
the sport. Azerbaijan had seven medals in London, including two
golds, equaling the number of winners for the U.S., which had
four wrestling medals in total.  FILA “is represented in 180 countries, with wrestling
being the national sport in a fair amount of them and the only
possibility for athletes to represent their country at the
Olympic Games,” the governing body said today in a statement on
its website.  Weight Categories  Greco-Roman had seven weight categories, and is only for
male athletes. Freestyle also has seven weight classes for men,
and four for women. Eight years after the Greco-Roman style was
featured in the Athens Games of 1896, freestyle was added in St.
Louis. Women’s competition started in Athens in 2004.  Greco-Roman wrestling was incorporated into the modern
Olympics in 1896 because organizers considered it historically
significant. It was part of the games in Olympia, Greece, as
early as 708 B.C., when wrestlers in loincloths would coat
themselves in olive oil and grapple against a backdrop of
temples and statues, according to the 2011 book “Power Games:
Ritual and Rivalry at the Ancient Greek Olympics,” by David
Stuttard.  Baseball, Softball  Baseball and softball were the most recent sports to be
removed from the Olympics following a 2005 vote and last
appeared at the 2008 Beijing Games. Golf and rugby sevens will
join the program at the 2016 Games in Rio de Janeiro.  Wrestling will join baseball and softball, which are
seeking inclusion as two disciplines under a single sports
banner, karate, roller sports, squash, sport climbing, wakeboard
and the Chinese martial art of wushu in trying to get added to
the 2020 schedule.  The IOC’s executive board will meet May 29-31 in St.
Petersburg, Russia, to decide which sport or sports to propose
for inclusion in 2020. A final vote take place in September at a
full meeting of IOC members in Buenos Aires, where a ballot will
also decide which city out of Istanbul, Madrid and Tokyo hosts
the event.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  