-- Yahoo CEO Mayer to Cement Facebook Ties While Pushing Mobile
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2013-02-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/yahoo-ceo-mayer-to-solidify-facebook-ties-while-pushing-mobile.html
Yahoo! Inc.  Chief Executive Officer
 Marissa Mayer  said she plans to focus on mobile applications and
strengthening ties to Facebook Inc. to bolster turnaround
efforts at the biggest U.S. Web portal.  “A lot of the strengths of Facebook are available to Yahoo
users,” Mayer said yesterday at an investor conference in San
Francisco hosted by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “That’s something
we want to build upon. We have a real commitment to bringing
valuable content to our users.”  Since Mayer arrived as CEO last year, Yahoo has ceded share
in its core business of display advertising. This year, Yahoo’s
share of the U.S. market will slip to 8 percent, from 9.3
percent in 2012, according to researcher  EMarketer Inc.  Google
Inc. will widen its lead to 18 percent from 15 percent last
year, while Facebook will advance to 15 percent from 14 percent.  To court users and advertisers, Mayer said she’ll focus on
“the dozen or so applications that people use all the time on
their phone.” That means slimming down from the 60 to 75 or so
applications Yahoo now offers, she said.  “How many people at least once a day mark an e-mail as
unread on their phone, just so they can go back later and read
it on their PC?” Mayer said. “There’s a clear opportunity for
innovation. The tool just doesn’t work that well right now.
These are the types of things we’re thinking about.”  Enhancing Social  Turnaround efforts will target changes that can get users
interacting more, and for longer periods of time, she said last
month. In the same way that recent updates to the Flickr image-
sharing service got users uploading 25 percent more photos, and
an overhaul of Yahoo Mail resulted in a higher portion of ads
being clicked, the company hopes to refresh sites such as Yahoo
Finance and Yahoo News, Mayer said.  To help its push for product improvements, Yahoo hired 120
new employees with computer science degrees in the fourth
quarter, Mayer said. She also brought on  Sandy Gould , a former
recruiting executive at Walt Disney Co., to lead talent
acquisition and development.  Enhancing social features is crucial to Yahoo’s success,
Mayer said, as she reinforced her preference to partner with
companies like Google, Apple Inc. and Facebook rather than build
expensive new products.  “One of the things that people really want to do is share
their interests with their friends,” she said. “We need to
have sharing built as a fundamental component.”  Yahoo’s shares advanced 1.5 percent to $21.21 at
yesterday’s close in New York. The stock has gained 36 percent
since Mayer was named CEO in July, compared with an 11 percent
gain for the Standard & Poor’s Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Burrows in San Francisco at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  