-- Yankees Open Spring Training With Distractions, No Rodriguez
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-02-12T17:40:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/yankees-open-spring-training-with-distractions-no-rodriguez.html
The New York Yankees are used to
having off-field distractions at the start of spring training
and manager  Joe Girardi  said this year is no different, with
recent allegations that  Alex Rodriguez  may have been using
performance-enhancing drugs as recently as last season.  Rodriguez, 37, remains in New York, rehabilitating from
last month’s hip surgery. Yet Girardi faced questions about the
All-Star third baseman as players arrived today in Tampa,
Florida.  “You walk on the field and you put the thoughts in your
head that aren’t part of the game away,” Girardi said at a
televised news conference. “You go do your job. Our guys will
do that. They’re used to doing that. I don’t ever think I’ve
come to a Yankee camp where there hasn’t been something that
people might call a distraction.”  Girardi said that, while he’s spoken with Rodriguez this
offseason about the three-time American League Most Valuable
Player’s rehab, they didn’t discuss last month’s report in the
Miami New Times that Rodriguez had bought performance-enhancing
substances from a clinic in Coral Gables, Florida. Major League
Baseball is investigating the report, which Rodriguez has said
is false.  “My concern is getting him healthy and that’s what I’ll
focus on,” Girardi said. “You’re always curious about things
that you read about that are potentially damaging to your
players and to baseball, of course. But I’m going to wait for
MLB to do their thing.”  Youkilis Addition  The Yankees signed former Boston Red Sox third baseman
 Kevin Youkilis  in December as a replacement for Rodriguez, who
the team has said will probably miss at least the first three
months of the season. It was one of the few offseason additions
for New York, which also brought in  Travis Hafner  as a potential
designated hitter.  Nick Swisher ,  Russell Martin ,  Raul Ibanez ,
 Eric Chavez  and  Andruw Jones , who combined for 94 home runs last
season, all left the team in the offseason.  The Yankees re-signed  Ichiro Suzuki  and will have another
outfielder,  Brett Gardner , back after he was limited to 16 games
by injury last season. Girardi said Gardner, who totaled 96
stolen bases for New York during the 2010-11 seasons, can have
50 to 60 steals this year if he stays healthy.  “We don’t quite have the home-run hitters that we’ve had
in the past,” Girardi said. “When you look at our club this
year, there’s more speed. Our offense is going to be different,
but I believe we’re going to score runs. It’s just going to be
in a different fashion than it has in the past.”  Yankees’ Odds  The Yankees have 14-1 odds of winning the World Series,
according to the Las Vegas Hotel’s Super Book, tied for eighth
among baseball’s 30 teams. The Los Angeles Angels (7-1), Detroit
Tigers (7-1), Washington Nationals (8-1), Los Angeles Dodgers
(8-1), Cincinnati Reds (10-1), Toronto Blue Jays (10-1) and
defending-champion San Francisco Giants (12-1) all have better
odds entering spring training.  New York isn’t even the favorite in the AL Eastern
division, which it’s won 12 of the past 15 years. With 9-5
division odds, the Yankees are second to the Blue Jays at 8-5.  The Yankees still need to figure out who their starting
catcher will be, while 38-year-old shortstop  Derek Jeter  is
returning from ankle surgery.  CC Sabathia  had offseason surgery
to remove a bone spur from his pitching elbow and 43-year-old
 Mariano Rivera  is also coming back from knee surgery that cost
him almost all of the 2012 season. His replacement last year at
closer,  Rafael Soriano , signed with the Nationals.  Girardi said that the Yankees won 95 games last season,
while overcoming long-term injuries to Rivera, Gardner and
pitcher  Michael Pineda . Rodriguez, first baseman  Mark Teixeira 
and pitcher  Andy Pettitte  also missed time because of injuries
in 2012, when the Yankees reached the AL Championship Series
before getting swept by the Tigers.  “When I look at the season that our club had last year,
they were extremely resilient, there were people who stepped up
in roles they weren’t expected to do,” Girardi said. “We need
to do that again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  