-- Yen Falls Versus Euro as Aso Says G-7 Accepts Japan Policy Goal
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-02-12T12:11:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/yen-erases-gain-as-aso-says-g-7-acknowledges-japan-policy-goal.html
The yen weakened for a second day
against the euro after Japanese Finance Minister  Taro Aso  said a
statement from the Group-of-Seven nations acknowledged the
country isn’t targeting exchange rates with its monetary policy.  The yen erased gains of as much as 0.5 percent versus the
dollar as the release of the G-7 statement damped speculation
the major industrial nations would indirectly criticize Japan
for introducing measures that weakened its currency. The euro
rose versus all except two of its 16 major counterparts after
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said there was no
optimal rate for the common currency. The pound declined on
speculation the central bank will cut growth forecasts tomorrow.  “There was nothing in the G-7 statement to make markets
think Japan is about to come under concerted international
pressure to do an about-face,” said  Daragh Maher , a currency
strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in London. “The yen will weaken
a little more.”  Japan’s currency declined 0.2 percent to 126.65 per euro at
7:05 a.m. in New York after climbing as much as 0.7 percent. The
yen was little changed at 94.21 per dollar after earlier
strengthening to 93.87. The euro rose 0.3 percent to $1.3444.  The yen has tumbled 18 percent in the past three months,
the worst performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro rose 5.2
percent, while the dollar declined 1.1 percent.  “We reaffirm that our fiscal and monetary policies have
been and will remain oriented towards meeting our respective
domestic objectives using domestic instruments, and that we will
not target exchange rates,” G-7 finance ministers and central
bank governors said in a statement released in London.  Moscow Meeting  Finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of 20,
which includes the G-7 and emerging markets such as Brazil,
China and India, are set to meet in Moscow on Feb. 15-16.  “Each nation understands that Japan’s policies to tackle
deflation are not aimed at influencing foreign exchange rates,”
Aso told reporters in Tokyo. “This was discussed by everyone. We
didn’t urge” the G-7 to issue the statement.  The euro rallied for a second day versus the dollar as
Juncker said Europe must not be “naive” on currencies. He
spoke in Paris after meeting French President  Francois Hollande .  “The G-7 statement is being taken as a sign of business as
usual,” said  Simon Smith , chief economist at FxPro Group Ltd.
in London. The euro “was and remains the preferred currency
through which to express yen-bearish views.”  Pound Falls  The pound dropped to a six-month low versus the dollar amid
bets the Bank of England will lower its growth forecasts in its
quarterly Inflation Report tomorrow, underlining the case for
keeping interest rates at a record low.  The U.K. currency fell 0.3 percent to $1.5612 after
declining to $1.5573, matching the low set on Aug. 8.  Switzerland’s franc erased an advance against the euro after
the central bank said it will keep applying its ceiling of 1.20
per euro and was ready to take additional measures.  “You could argue the clear foreign-exchange manipulators
out there are the Swiss,”  Trevor Greetham , director of asset
allocation in London at Fidelity Worldwide Investment, which
manages $240 billion, wrote in an e-mailed note today. “We are
short both the yen and the Swiss, two currencies that pay the
lowest interest rates in the world and both with central banks
aiming explicitly or implicitly to devalue.” A short position
is a bet that an asset will fall.  The franc was little changed at 1.2335 per euro after
appreciating as much as 0.4 percent. The currency strengthened
0.3 percent to 91.75 centimes per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  