-- ThyssenKrupp Profit Falls as Slowdown Cuts Demand
-- B y   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2013-02-12T17:20:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/thyssenkrupp-profit-falls-as-slowdown-cuts-demand.html
ThyssenKrupp AG , Germany’s biggest
steelmaker, said profit slumped 38 percent in the fiscal first
quarter as the global economic slowdown eroded demand.  Adjusted earnings before interest and taxes fell to 229
million euros ($307 million) in the three months through
December from 372 million euros a year earlier, the Essen-based
company said today in a statement. That beat the 211.8 million-
euro average estimate of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Sales dropped 7.9 percent to 8.84 billion euros.  Dwindling demand for steel from the auto and construction
industries in Europe and competition from China have pushed down
prices and squeezed producers’ profit margins as they grapple
with surplus capacity. ArcelorMittal, the biggest steelmaker,
last week posted the lowest quarterly profit in three years.  ThyssenKrupp “cannot be satisfied with the group’s current
earning power,” Chief Executive Officer  Heinrich Hiesinger  said
in the statement. The shares fell 0.3 percent to close at 17.70
euros in Frankfurt trading.  The company is selling its Steel Americas division as it
cuts the number of business units to five from eight and expands
non-steel operations. Steel Americas, labeled a discontinued
operation, reported an adjusted loss before interest and taxes
of 87 million euros, compared with a loss of 288 million euros a
year earlier, according to  Kilian Roetzer , a spokesman.  Unit Sale  Hiesinger expects to agree on the sale of the unit by May,
he said today on a conference call. ThyssenKrupp has a “clear
preference for cash” and intends to close the deal this fiscal
year, Chief Financial Officer Guido Kerkhoff said on the call.  ArcelorMittal and  Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corp.  have
teamed up to bid for ThyssenKrupp’s plant in Alabama, making a
non-binding offer of about $1.5 billion, people with knowledge
of the talks said last month. They face competition from  Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA , which is bidding for the plant and
another in Brazil, and  Nucor Corp. , said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the talks are private.  ThyssenKrupp intends to save 500 million euros by
reorganizing its European steel business and cutting more than
2,000 jobs to reduce excess capacity. Hiesinger has already sold
the company’s Inoxum stainless-steel unit to  Outokumpu Oyj  in a
deal valuing the business at about 2.7 billion euros.  “I doubt whether investors will profit from the savings of
the restructuring program because of the huge overcapacities in
Europe,” said  Joerg Schneider , a Union Investment GmbH
portfolio manager responsible for the fund’s 0.56 percent stake
in ThyssenKrupp. “Hiesinger’s strategy is going in the right
direction, but that is already considerably included in the
share price.”  ThyssenKrupp’s net financial debt shrank to 5.21 billion
euros at the end of December from 5.94 billion euros a year
earlier.  The company confirmed a forecast for adjusted Ebit of about
1 billion euros for the current fiscal year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tino Andresen in Dusseldorf at 
 tandresen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  