-- Zimbabwean Government Seizes Land From Impala Platinum Unit
-- B y   G o d f r e y   M a r a w a n y i k a
-- 2013-02-12T15:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/zimbabwean-government-seizes-land-from-impala-platinum-unit-1-.html
Zimbabwe seized some land owned by
 Zimplats Holdings Ltd. , the country’s biggest platinum miner,
“with immediate effect,” Mines Minister  Obert Mpofu  said.  The southern African nation’s government has repossessed
27,948 hectares (69,061 acres) of land from the company and will
offer it to new investors, Mpofu told reporters today in Harare,
the capital. The country also wants producers to establish a
platinum-group metal refinery, and expects companies to present
implementation plans, he said.  Zimbabwe “has not realized significant value from the
platinum sector beyond the traditional statutory payments,”
Mpofu said. “We can no longer continue having our minerals
refined outside the country. You can only compensate for land
that has been bought. The ground belongs to Zimbabwe and there
can not be talks of compensation when the land belongs to you.”  Zimbabwe, which has the largest known platinum and chrome
reserves after South Africa, doesn’t have a refinery and most of
Zimplats’s platinum is processed at  Impala Platinum Ltd. ’s plant
near Johannesburg. Impala, which owned 87 percent of Zimplats
and is the world’s biggest producer of the metal after Anglo
American Platinum Ltd., on Jan. 11 signed the terms to sell 51
percent to the country’s black citizens.  “We are unaware of this,”  Bob Gilmour , a spokesman for
Johannesburg-based Impala, said by mobile phone.  Zimplats has spent $30 million on a feasibility study for a
refinery in Zimbabwe that will cost at least $2 billion, Chief
Executive Officer  Alex Mhembere  said on Jan. 14.  Platinum rose for the first time in four days, adding 1.2
percent to $1,709.94 an ounce by 2:55 p.m. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Godfrey Marawanyika in Johannesburg at 
 gmarawanyika@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  