-- Ziopharm in Partner Talks for Experimental Cancer Drug
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-02-12T21:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-12/ziopharm-in-partner-talks-for-experimental-cancer-drug.html
Ziopharm Oncology Inc ., a developer
of experimental cancer drugs, is in talks with potential
partners to market its lead compound, palifosfamide, Chief
Executive Officer  Jonathan Lewis  said.  “All options are on the table,” Lewis said today in an
interview in New York. “There are discussions going on right
now as regards potential partnering.”  Ziopharm is in late-stage trials of the medicine for soft-
tissue sarcoma, a cancer of the muscle, fat and other body
tissues. The New York-based company said today it will report
results from the study in the last week of March, driving shares
to the biggest increase in three years.  Ziopharm likely will collaborate with a large, global
company, collecting a royalty on the medicine’s sales if it’s
approved, Lewis said. He didn’t name potential partners.  About 11,280 people in the U.S. were diagnosed with soft
tissue sarcomas last year, and 3,900 were expected to die from
the disease, according to the  National Cancer Institute .
Palifosfamide is being tested as an initial treatment for
metastatic soft-tissue sarcoma, a form of the disease that has
spread to other areas of the body.  The need for new medicines to treat metastatic soft-tissue
sarcoma is high, as a patient’s chances for survival decline
drastically once the cancer has spread, Lewis said. London-based
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc ’s Votrient won approval in April for use in
patients with soft-tissue sarcomas who have already had
chemotherapy.  Shares Surge  Ziopharm rose 18 percent to $4.69 at the close in New York,
the biggest single-day increase since October 2009. The shares
have  fallen  11 percent in the past 12 months.  “It’s a surprisingly strong reaction,”  Jason Butler , an
analyst with JMP Securities in New York, said of the stock’s
movement in a telephone interview today. He recommends buying
Ziopharm shares. Investors had previously worried that the study
results might be delayed, he said.  Ziopharm initially had planned to report results from the
trial in the fourth quarter of last year and said in November
the data would be later than that. Today, the drug developer
reported that it had reached a point in the clinical trial where
enough data had been gathered for analysis.  “Several things here are pointing in the right
direction,” Lewis said. “But it’s blinded, so we just don’t
know.”  A partnership may happen before the data are presented, or
more logically after they are known, Lewis said.  The trial’s results will have a large impact on the
company’s stock, Butler said.  “If it fails, there’s pretty substantial downside,” he
said. “This is binary biotech 101.”  Butler estimates the drug could draw $250 million in peak
revenue in the U.S. by 2020, if approved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  