-- `Astrology' Blamed for Loss of Louisiana Coast to Rising Seas
-- B y   E r i c   R o s t o n
-- 2012-02-13T18:35:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/-astrology-blamed-for-loss-of-louisiana-coast-to-rising-seas.html
Few things are as uniquely unsustainable as southern  Louisiana . Astrology
last month briefly joined the list of forces blamed for the  Gulf of Mexico 
swallowing the equivalent of a football field of Louisiana land every hour --
about 1,900 square miles since the 1930s. The Louisiana Applied Coastal & Environmental Sciences Division (LACES)
 issued a study  at the end of January recommending that policymakers plan for an
estimated one-meter rise in  sea level  this century. The report's summary for
coastal managers curiously stated that "Sea-level rise is caused by a variety of
dynamic interactions, and is influenced by atmospheric, geologic, oceanic, and
astrological changes, whether natural or anthropogenic." It's the kind of disclaimer often added by politicians and bureaucrats to
gird against conservative backlash when discussing matters related to  climate
change .  The full technical report describes the astronomical contribution of
18.6 year lunar cycles on coastal processes, but no suggestion of horoscopes. It
seems unlikely that the authors of the technical report -- each with a decade or
more of advanced science education and environmental management experience --
would bobble "astrological" and "astronomical." For guidance on whom to talk to about natural and manmade astrology, I
emailed Kyle Graham, deputy director of the Louisiana Coastal Protection and
Restoration Authority implementation office (and a reliable wit). Graham
recommended my next step: "During business hours the appropriate staff to speak
with mans our Tarot table. It would have to be an early morning or evening
interview--during a waxing or waning gibbous, of course." The issue here is more serious than the amusing typographical error, which
has since been corrected. Land loss is decimating one of the world's great river
deltas, a rich source for the  U.S. economy  and home to culture-rich  New Orleans .
So I put the question slightly differently to Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal ,
who happened to walk into the restaurant I was eating at Friday night. He was in
 Washington  for the annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC), being
held down the street from the New Heights restaurant in the Woodley Park
neighborhood. Jindal arrived with his wife and a security detail, and fell into
conversation with Hogan Gidley,  Rick Santorum 's campaign communications
director, who was dining with John Heilemann and Mark Halperin, the authors of
the 2010 political blockbuster  Game Change . Jindal deferred to his
coastal defense chief when I asked about the causes of land loss.  Wearing a tux
and holding a garment bag, he instead focused on the need for federal attention
to the state's coastline. His sentiment could apply to any of a number of
stalled issues in the nation's capital: Many members of Congress say they
support action against Louisiana's wetland loss, but little has occurred toward
a comprehensive solution, he said. "We need people to have continued
interest." The federal government has played a key role in Louisiana coastal land loss.
The U.S.  Army Corps  of Engineers corseted the  Mississippi River  with levees in
the 1930s, after the Great Flood of 1927. With levees pushing sediment flow past
the river’s mouth, Louisiana can't fortify itself against the sea by creating
new land. Flooding is destructive to farms and cities but necessary for healthy
river deltas. The state projects another 1,800 square miles of land to disappear
in the next 50 years.  