-- ‘Dragon Tattoo’ Named Year’s Riskiest Movie on Motorcycle, Torture Scenes
-- B y   A n d r e a   L u d t k e
-- 2012-02-13T17:02:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/-dragon-tattoo-named-year-s-riskiest-movie-on-motorcycle-torture-scenes.html
“The Girl With the  Dragon Tattoo ,”
the film featuring motorcycle, fight and torture scenes, was
named 2011’s riskiest movie by  Fireman’s Fund Insurance Co.   The  Sony Corp. (6758)  movie details the search for a serial killer
by  Daniel Craig  as journalist Mikael Blomkvist, and Rooney Mara
as computer hacker Lisbeth Salander. Salander is raped by her
legal guardian and later tortures him, tattooing his chest.
Filming in Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom increased
the risk from transporting film equipment and of dealing with
illness beyond the U.S.  A motorcycle scene in the novel by Stieg Larsson was
changed in the movie because of insurance risks, according to a
statement today from Fireman’s Fund, a unit of  Germany ’s  Allianz
SE. (ALV)  “The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo” had a production budget
of $90 million and grossed about $211 million in worldwide
ticket sales, according to  Box Office Mojo , an industry website.  “Delays can cost a production millions of dollars if a
cast member becomes injured and is unable to work,” said Wendy Diaz, entertainment underwriting director for Novato,
California-based Fireman’s Fund, in the statement.  Insurance may cost 1 percent to 3 percent of a film’s
budget, according to Suzanne Meraz, a spokeswoman for Fireman’s
Fund. The company covers 80 percent of U.S. films and backed
“The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo.” Meraz declined to disclose
the cost of the policy or amount of coverage.  The movie was nominated for five Academy Awards, including
best actress for Mara. The ceremony is scheduled for Feb. 26.
Meraz said winners are selected by a panel at the insurer that
weighs the location of filming and the riskiness of stunts.  “Salt” was named 2010’s riskiest movie to insure after
star  Angelina Jolie  did her own stunts in scenes involving
weapons, fights, motorcycles and a leap off an overpass onto a
truck. “Inglorious Basterds,” featuring  Brad Pitt  scalping
Nazis in World War II, stood out in 2009 as gunfights and
pyrotechnics filmed outside the U.S. increased its risks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Ludtke in New York at 
 aludtke@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  