-- L’Oreal Gains Most in 2 1/2 Months on 2012 Outlook
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-02-14T16:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/l-oreal-says-it-s-confident-of-2012-growth-as-2011-profit-beats-estimates.html
L’Oreal SA (OR)  rose the most in two-and-
a-half months in Paris trading after the world’s largest
cosmetics maker reported 2011 profit that beat estimates and
gave an upbeat assessment of the outlook for this year.  The stock gained 3.8 percent to 84.73 euros, the steepest
advance since Nov. 30, after climbing as much as 4.3 percent.  Operating profit last year rose 7.7 percent to 3.29 billion
euros ($4.35 billion), L’Oreal said yesterday after the market’s
close, exceeding the 3.23 billion-euro average  estimate  of 25
analysts compiled by Bloomberg. The company aims to at least
maintain profitability this year and sees no sign of a slowdown
in the global cosmetics market, which it expects to expand about
4 percent, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Agon said at a
press conference in Paris today.  “Contrary to what many believed, the cosmetics consumer
has not changed their behavior since the crisis,” Agon said.
“There has been no downgrading” to cheaper alternatives.  A 1.5 percentage-point increase in the fourth-quarter
profit margin was “the big positive news,”  Andrew Wood , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said in a report. Sales growth
also beat estimates, though it was still below that of
competitors  Estee Lauder  Cos. and Unilever, he said.  Profit margins are becoming “a key pillar to bottom-line
delivery,” Celine Pannuti, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
said in a note to clients.  Buoyant Demand  The maker of Maybelline expects the global cosmetics demand
to continue to be buoyant in 2012, led by the  Asia  Pacific
region, even if the pace of growth may be slightly slower so far
this year than in 2011, Agon said. Estee Lauder, based in  New
York , said this month that global demand for prestige beauty
products is softening amid economic uncertainty in  Europe .  L’Oreal is confident it can reverse the underperformance of
its consumer unit, particularly at Garnier and in eastern Europe
as it introduces products, Agon said. The company will focus on
taking market share in all regions as its business in the euro
zone decreases on a relative basis, he said.  Asia offers the most substantial growth prospects for
L’Oreal’s brands, the CEO said. Sales in  China  exceeded  France 
for the first time in January, Agon said. While this can’t be
extrapolated over the full year, “it’s a sign,” he said.  L’Oreal is on the lookout for potential acquisitions that
can accelerate market-share gains, though the company will
continue to prioritize so-called organic growth, Agon said.  Yesterday’s announcement that Liliane Bettencourt will be
replaced by her grandson Jean-Victor Meyers on L’Oreal’s board
“changes absolutely nothing,” Agon said. “This piece of news
is very reassuring for the stability of the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  