-- Accused Bali Bomber Faces Trial Ten Years After Attack Killed 202 People
-- B y   F e m i   A d i   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-02-13T08:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/accused-bali-bomber-patek-to-face-trial.html
The terrorism trial of Indonesian
militant Umar Patek began today in Jakarta for his alleged role
in bombings that killed 202 people in Bali, highlighting
 Southeast Asia ’s battle to dismantle militant groups.  Mass murder charges could lead to the death penalty if
Patek is found guilty, his lawyer Asludin Adjani said in a
telephone interview from Jakarta. The U.S. had offered  a reward 
of $1 million for Patek, who was arrested last year in the
Pakistani town of Abbottabad, where U.S. commandos killed  Osama
bin Laden .  The case adds to Indonesia’s progress in battling terrorism
under President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, who has led the
secular state with the world’s biggest population of Muslims
since 2004. A conviction of the suspected bombmaker would follow
two ratings companies raising Southeast Asia’s biggest economy
to investment grade.  “The threat remains significant but governments are better
prepared to fight terrorism,”  Rohan Gunaratna , head of the
Singapore-based International Center for Political Violence and
Terrorism Research, said by phone. “Information Patek has
provided has been very significant and useful for understanding
terrorist networks in Pakistan and Southeast Asia.”  The trial begins one year after that of Indonesian cleric
Abu Bakar Bashir, who also faced terrorism charges for his role
in the October 2002 attacks on a Bali nightclub. Like Bashir,
Patek is thought to be a member of the al-Qaeda linked Jemaah
Islamiyah, according to a profile on the U.S. National
Counterterrorism Center website.  Ready for Trial  Patek will file a challenge to the indictment next week,
Adjani told reporters in Jakarta today after the proceedings
began. Earlier he said charges of premeditated mass murder will
“require evidence.”  Patek is charged with premeditated murder for his role in
making the bombs used in the Bali attacks, as well as conspiracy
to commit terrorism and aid terrorists, according to a copy of
the indictment. He used 11 aliases in addition to his birth
name, Hisyam Bin Alizein, the indictment said.  Patek first used his bombmaking skills in 2000, when Bali
bombing mastermind Imam Samudra asked him to make explosives to
attack churches on Christmas Eve, according to the indictment.
Samudra, who was executed in 2008 for his role in the bombings,
later asked Patek to help kill foreigners in Bali by making the
bombs, it said.  Patek and a friend he met in  Pakistan  in the early 1990s
took three weeks to blend the explosive mixture of potassium
chlorate, sulfur and aluminum powder used in the Bali attack,
the indictment said.  Philippines, Pakistan  After the Bali attacks, Patek spent seven years in the
southern  Philippines  working with militant group  Abu Sayyaf , the
indictment said. The group helped fund his move to Pakistan,
where he stopped before a planned move to  Afghanistan  to fight
U.S. troops, it said.  Bashir, whose trial began Feb. 10 last year, was convicted
of funding terrorism and sentenced to 15 years in prison in
June. An Indonesian court later reduced the term to nine years,
the  Associated Press  reported.  Indonesia must do more to prevent extremist preachers from
radicalizing the population, Gunaratna said, adding that Bashir
remains a bigger threat than Patek even from behind bars.  ‘Inside Prison’  “Bashir should be put in isolation because he’s conducting
business from inside prison,” Gunaratna said. “Umar Patek has
cooperated. Bashir has not.”  Indonesia  won its second credit rating upgrade in five
weeks last month, as Moody’s Investors Service returned the
country to investment level for the first time since the Asian
financial crisis.  The foreign and local-currency rating was increased to Baa3
from Ba1.  Fitch Ratings  brought Indonesia back to investment
grade last December after 14 years of junk ratings. It raised
the nation’s long-term foreign and local currency rating to BBB-
with a stable outlook.  Investment in the three months ended Dec. 31 rose 19
percent from a year earlier to 70.2 trillion rupiah ($7.8
billion),  Gita Wirjawan , chairman of the Investment Coordinating
Board, said last month. For 2011 as a whole, investment gained
21 percent from a year earlier to 251.3 trillion rupiah.  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  has risen 2.9 percent this year
compared with the  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP) ’s 10.3 percent rise.
Indonesia’s benchmark climbed 0.5 percent today, the first gain
in three days.  More Raids  Indonesia had stepped up raids against terror suspects
since bombings on July 17, 2009, at Jakarta’s  JW Marriott (MAR)  and
 Ritz-Carlton (MAR)  hotels killed nine people, including the two
attackers. They were the first terrorist attacks in the country
by Islamic militants in almost four years.  In September 2009, police killed militant leader Noordin
Mohammad Top, who was suspected of involvement in every major
anti-Western attack in Indonesia since 2002. In March of the
same year they killed terrorist leader and suspected Bali bomber
Dulmatin and two others.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Harrington in Tokyo at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  