-- Macquarie Group Said to Cut 10% of Asian Investment-Banking Jobs Last Week
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-02-14T03:43:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/macquarie-group-said-to-cut-10-of-asian-investment-banking-jobs-last-week.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s
biggest investment bank, cut about 10 percent of its investment
banking workforce in  Asia  last week, two people with knowledge
of the departures said.  Koichiro Yano, a financial institutions group banker in
 Tokyo , is among about 20 employees in Asia outside of Australia
leaving Macquarie, the people said, asking not to be identified
because the departures aren’t public. Macquarie, which is mainly
cutting vice presidents and some junior positions, will maintain
an investment banking presence in 14 countries in Asia, one of
the people said.  Macquarie said on Feb. 7 that slumping advisory fees will
contribute to a 25 percent drop in  profit  for in the year ending
March 31. Bank of America Corp. and Nomura Holdings Inc. have
also fired investment bankers in Asia as  Europe ’s lingering
credit crisis made companies reluctant to spend on acquisitions
and unable to sell shares on stock markets.  “Macquarie have flagged they’re looking to rationalize
costs and capital across the group,” said Brian Johnson, an
analyst at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets in Sydney with a “buy”
rating on the stock. “We’re seeing Macquarie taking out a lot
of businesses they didn’t feel contributed to profit and they’re
rationalizing them away.”  Fiona McDonald, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman at Macquarie,
declined to comment. Yano couldn’t be reached to comment.  Income Decline  Brook Vinicchayakul, who helped run the Sydney-based bank’s
investment banking business in  Thailand , left after the company
formed an alliance with  Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK) , the people said.
Macquarie is seeking to tap Kasikornbank’s local team of 30
bankers to win more equity capital markets business and mergers
and acquisitions deals, one of the people said.  A person who answered the phone at Vinicchayakul’s office
said he is no longer with the firm.                Operating income at Macquarie Capital, the unit that
includes mergers advisory and equity and dept capital markets,
may drop 35 percent in the six months through March 31 from a
year earlier, Macquarie said  last week . The division has been
“severely impacted by macroeconomic conditions,” according to
the statement.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is seeking buyers for most
of its advisory unit, and may close the business if a sale
fails. RBS said in January it will cut about 4,800 jobs,
including 3,500 at its investment bank over the next three
years, as the Edinburgh-based lender tries to sell its
unprofitable cash equities and merger-advisory operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  