-- Adele Wins Six Grammys as Whitney Houston’s Death Casts Shadow Over Awards
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-02-13T18:46:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/adele-sweeps-top-grammys-at-muted-show.html
Adele won six Grammy awards,
sweeping the major categories of song, record and album of the
year, on a night the  music industry  mourned the loss of singer
Whitney Houston.  Adele’s “21” was named album of the year, and “Rolling
in the Deep” won song and record of the year at the 54th Grammy
Awards, telecast by  CBS Corp. (CBS)  last night from Los Angeles.  Foo Fighters  won five awards including best rock album, and  Kanye West  took home four including best rap album for “My Beautiful
Dark Twisted Fantasy.”  Houston’s death at 48 on Feb. 11 in  Beverly Hills ,
California, sent a shock through the music industry and muted
the celebratory nature of the year’s biggest awards show.
Artists honored her from the stage, and  Jennifer Hudson 
performed a simple tribute with “I Will Always Love You” on a
stage darkened except for a soft spotlight.  “We have had a death in our family,” host LL Cool J said
at the program’s outset. “The only thing that feels right is to
begin with a prayer, for a woman who we loved, for our fallen
sister, Whitney Houston.”  Adele, the British singer-songwriter whose last name is
Adkins, tied Beyonce’s record for most Grammy wins in one night
by a female artist, according to the Recording Academy  website .
She also won best pop vocal album for “21,” and was honored
with best pop solo performance for “Someone Like You.” The
artist records for XL Recordings, which is distributed by  Sony (6758) 
Corp.’s Columbia Records.  “This record is really inspired by what just about
everyone has gone through,” Adele said after “21” was named
album of the year. “A rubbish relationship.”  Vocal Cords  On the show, Adele sang “Rolling in the Deep,” her first
performance since undergoing vocal cord surgery last year. She
credited her co-writer, producer Paul Epworth, saying, “he
brought me out of my skin to write this record.”  “I’m getting real emotional,” Adele said. “I should
thank my doctors, since they did bring my voice back.”  Last night’s telecast attracted 39.9 million U.S. TV
viewers, the second-most ever for the show and an increase of 50
percent from last year, according to updated Nielsen data
released by CBS. The largest Grammy audience of 51.7 million was
recorded in 1984, when  Michael Jackson  captured many of the top
honors for the album “Thriller.”  Bruce Springsteen  and the E Street Band opened the show
with the single “We Take Care of Our Own,” from the album
“Wrecking Ball,” scheduled to go on sale March 6 in the U.S.  Beach Boys  The surviving  Beach Boys , reunited for a 50th anniversary
tour, played “Good Vibrations.” Two other Southern  California 
bands, Maroon 5 and Foster the People, played “Surfer Girl”
and “Wouldn’t It Be Nice.”  Paul McCartney  played “My
Valentine” from his new album, “Kisses on the Bottom.”  Hudson’s tribute to Houston came near the end of the three-
hour show. Houston, who made “I Will Always Love You” famous
playing the role of a pop diva in “The Bodyguard,” earned
three 1993 Grammys for the movie soundtrack, including album of
the year.  Houston’s first Grammy came for her 1985 vocal performance
of “Saving All My Love for You.” She won the same award for
1987’s “I Wanna Dance With Somebody (Who Loves Me).” She
received a Grammy for best female R&B vocal performance for
1999’s “It’s Not Right But It’s Okay.”  Houston won six Grammys in a career slowed by drugs and
alcohol. She was found unresponsive Feb. 11 in her room at the
Beverly Hilton hotel, where she was planning to attend the
annual pre-Grammys party held by Clive Davis, the Arista Records
founder.  Album Sales  Sales of her albums have soared with her death. “Whitney -
- The Greatest Hits” was the top album at Apple Inc.’s iTunes
online store. Two others were in the top 10.  Chris Brown ’s “F.A.M.E.” was named best R&B album. Lady
Antebellum’s “Own the Night” won best country album. Bon Iver
was named best new artist.  In addition to West’s “My Beautiful Dark Twisted
Fantasy,” distributed by  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group , he
and Jay-Z won the best rap performance Grammy for “Otis” from
“Watch the Throne.”  West, a previous  winner  of 14 Grammys, also won the best
rap song and best rap/sung collaboration for “All of The
Lights.”  As West dominated rap, Foo Fighters, who are signed to
Sony’s RCA record label, swept major rock categories. “Wasting
Light” was named best rock album, and the band, formed by
former Nirvana drummer Dave Grohl, took best rock song and best
rock performance for “Walk,” and best hard rock/metal
performance for “White Limo.”  L.A. Philharmonic  The Los Angeles Philharmonic, conducted by  Gustavo Dudamel ,
won for best orchestral performance for its recording of
Brahms’s 4th symphony. “Adams: Doctor Atomic” by the
Metropolitan Opera Orchestra and Chorus was chosen as best opera
recording.  The Recording Academy lowered the number of awards this
year to 78 from 109 a year ago.  Albums and tracks by Grammy winners and performers often
spike after the telecast. The day after last year’s show, nine
of the 10 best-selling albums on iTunes were from artists who
had won or performed. Last year’s show drew the most viewers
since 2001, according to data from  Nielsen (NLSN) .  Adele has already had an impact on record sales. U.S. music
sales rose 6.9 percent last year as consumer purchases of albums
increased for the first time since 2004, according to Nielsen
and Billboard magazine. Sales of digital albums climbed 20
percent, fueled by demand for “21,” the year’s best-selling
album with 5.8 million copies sold in all formats.  Record of the year recognizes a track’s artists, engineers
and producers, while song of the year credits songwriters.  Recording artists who released albums between Oct. 1, 2010,
and Sept. 30, 2011, were eligible.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  