-- Adidas Targets Teenage Girls for $1.3 Billion in Sales
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-02-13T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/adidas-targets-teen-girl-fashion-market-for-1-3-billion-in-sales-retail.html
Adidas AG (ADS)  already dominates the
global soccer market. Now the company is targeting teenage girls
more influenced by music and fashion than sports.  By expanding its NEO fashion outlets, which offer such
looks as metallic leather boots, and by exploiting social-media
platforms including Facebook and Twitter,  the world’s second-
largest sporting-goods maker  hopes to attract 14 to 19 year-old
girls. The company estimates the effort may bring in an
additional 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) in revenue by 2015.  “Teenage girls are a target group we didn’t really reach
so far, whereas boys are closer connected to Adidas via
sports,” said Erich Stamminger, the board member responsible
for global brands. “For girls, you need a bit more of fashion
influence and that’s exactly what we are offering with NEO.”  The three-year-old NEO fashion chain has made inroads in
 Russia ,  India  and especially  China , where it has 1,000 stores.
With the opening in Hamburg this month of the first of 10 stores
planned in Germany, Adidas is pushing into the more crowded and
more competitive fashion market in western  Europe , where Inditex
SA and  Hennes & Mauritz AB  are already firmly established.  NEO, with 26 outlets in Russia, 60 in India and products
for sale in such U.S. department stores as Kohl’s Corp., J.C.
Penney Co. and Brown Shoe Co.’s Famous Footwear chain, generated
sales of about 400 million euros in 2010 and 500 million euros
last year, according to estimates by Mark Josefson, an analyst
at Silvia Quandt Research GmbH.  Adidas has forecast group revenue of 17 billion euros by
2015, with growth being driven by expansion in China and Russia.  ‘Competitive Environment’  Cracking the teenage fashion market won’t be simple.  Hennes
& Mauritz, (HMB)  the world’s second-largest clothing retailer behind
Inditex, reported a fifth consecutive drop in quarterly profit
on Jan. 26 as it stepped up discounting amid a lull in  consumer
spending . H&M plans to open 275 stores this year, while Inditex
is adding Zara outlets and expanding its e-commerce range.  “Adidas has the experience from the retail side, but the
brand has to differentiate itself because it’s a very
competitive environment,” said Thomas Effler, an analyst at
WestLB AG in Frankfurt. “Social media can be a way for Adidas
to differentiate itself.”  To interact with teenagers, NEO is developing social-media
channels on platforms such as Facebook and Twitter. A mirror
inside the Hamburg store allows customers to take photos of
themselves in outfits and to post them online. The brand is
putting Twitter feeds into stores allowing managers to share
information, said Claire Midwood, who heads the NEO label.  Liked on Facebook  “Our consumers’ lifestyle is in digital media, that’s why
we need to be there as well,” Midwood said. “Not only will we
develop digital applications and experiences for our consumer to
use out of store, but we will also introduce new digital
innovations at retail.”  More than 12 million Facebook users said they like the page
created for Adidas Originals, part of the Adidas Sport Style
unit that includes NEO, which accounts for more than 20 percent
of group sales. That’s more than for any other company in
Germany’s benchmark DAX Index and also more than the 6 million
Facebook users who said they like the  Nike Inc. (NKE)  page.  “It’s all about creating hype and buzz around the brand,”
said Matt Powell, an analyst for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
SportsOneSource “Social media is very important for this
generation, even more so than broadcast media. Social media is
the primary source of communications for teenagers and it’s
exactly the appropriate approach for today’s consumer.”  The NEO store in Hamburg is “definitely worth a visit,”
Jana Vandamme wrote on the chain’s Facebook page, which is liked
by more than 190,000 users. “Music, fabulous clothes and cool
people.”  Sales Target  Nike,  the world’s biggest sporting-goods maker,  has shied
away from fashion clothes. The Nike brand generates 30 percent
of revenue from apparel and the majority of those sales come
from sweatshirts, t-shirts and athletic pants. While the
company’s Hurley and Converse brands do offer more fashion-
oriented clothes to teenagers and young adults, their combined
sales make up 6.6 percent of Nike’s total revenue and Converse,
with its Chuck Taylor sneakers, is known for shoes.  The consumer climate in  Germany  may help Adidas with its
fashion push.  Consumer confidence  in the country will rise for a
fifth month in February as unemployment holds at a two-decade
low, boosting the economic outlook and households’ willingness
to spend, GfK SE said on Jan. 26.  Store Openings  “In western Europe, it’s getting more difficult, but in
Germany consumer sentiment is still OK,” Effler said.  Adidas Chief Executive Officer Herbert Hainer said in
November that Europe’s debt crisis won’t halt the company’s
growth and  forecast higher earnings  this year.  NEO, whose prices start at 12.95 euros for t-shirts and
34.95 euros for shoes, is due to open a store in Frankfurt on
Feb. 16 after adding one in Dusseldorf last week. The brand has
a collection for boys signed by  David Beckham , the England
soccer star who designed a range of underwear for H&M this year.
Adidas is looking at signing a celebrity to help endorse the
girls’ collection, Midwood said.  That may help further increase the proportion of female
customers, which at about 50 percent is higher than for other
Adidas labels, Stamminger said, declining to be more specific.  “Adidas will have to refresh its NEO collection more
quickly and more frequently than it refreshes designs for jersey
shirts, but it provides an angle for Adidas to compete with
brands like H&M and attract teenage girls,” said Silvia
Quandt’s Josefson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in  Frankfurt  at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  