-- Hague Welcomes ‘Strong Signal’ Sent to Syria by Arab League
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-02-13T11:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/hague-welcomes-strong-signal-sent-to-syria-by-arab-league-1-.html
The  Arab League  has sent a “strong
signal” to  Syria  and a multi-national peacekeeping force could
play a useful role in the strife-torn nation, U.K. Foreign
Secretary  William Hague  said.  Western nations are unlikely to contribute troops to a
 United Nations ’ peacekeeping mission proposed by the Arab
League, Hague told reporters in Cape Town today. A UN force
should be used only once peace has been reached in Syria, he
said.  The Arab League, a union of 22 Arabic-speaking African and
Asian nations, called yesterday for the formation of an Arab-UN
peacekeeping force “to supervise implementation of a cease-
fire,” according to a league statement given to reporters in
Cairo. It would replace an Arab League observation mission that
was suspended as violence against protesters continued.  A peacekeeping force “is a concept that could contribute
to saving lives, but for such an idea to work we will have to
wait for peace,” Hague told reporters in  Cape Town  after a
meeting with Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, his South African
counterpart. “I don’t see the way forward in Syria as being
western boots on the ground. It would have to come from other
nations rather than western nations.”  The Arab League called for ending “all forms of diplomatic
cooperation” with representatives of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s government, the 22-member group said in a statement
after a meeting of foreign ministers.  The league urged “all countries that are keen to preserve
Syrian lives” to follow suit and said the proposals should be
sent to the UN General Assembly. It called for an end to
violence and said it would “provide all forms of political and
financial support” to the Syrian opposition.  Russia and  China  on Feb. 4 vetoed a UN Security Council
resolution supported by the Arab League that was designed to
find a political solution to a conflict that the UN estimates
has killed more than 5,400 people. Syrian forces have
intensified their attacks since the initiative was blocked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  