-- Thailand’s Troubles Show Democracy’s Shaky Future: Pankaj Mishra
-- B y   P a n k a j   M i s h r a
-- 2012-02-13T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/thailand-s-troubles-show-democracy-s-shaky-future-pankaj-mishra.html
Recently in Bangkok, I found myself
wandering through the strange but distinctive arena for one of
Asia’s latest conflicts:  CentralWorld , supposedly the biggest
shopping mall in Southeast Asia.  Protesters supporting  Thaksin Shinawatra ,  Thailand ’s
populist ex-prime minister, had set up base camp in the mall’s
plaza in May 2010. During a widely covered clash with security
forces, they had set the building on fire, destroying much of
it.  The newly renovated mall -- and the traffic outside,
restored to Bangkok gridlock -- can project again an image of
prosperity and consumption. However, Thailand itself -- governed
by his sister, who is now prime minister, and remote-controlled
by Thaksin from Dubai -- looks no more stable, or closer to
being a functional democracy, than at any other time since the
Asian financial crisis in 1997.  From the late 1950s onward, most Western commentators
reflecting on the fate of democracy in the developing and mostly
nondemocratic world shared a broad assumption: that middle and
other aspiring classes created by industrial capitalism would
bring about accountable and democratic governments.  Modernization Theory  This was an axiom of “modernization theory.” First proposed
during the  Cold War  as a gradualist and peaceful alternative to
communist-style revolution, it was revived in the 1990s to
explain events in  South Korea ,  Taiwan  and Thailand, where
educated and politicized populations emerged to demand elected
governments from their authoritarian-minded rulers.  The theory always had some strong critics, most notably
Samuel Huntington, whose “Political Order in Changing Societies”
(1968) questioned whether social and economic transformation in
developing societies is always benign, or leads to democracy.
The theory also naively assumed that the rising middle class
would form a progressive avant-garde, and it failed to consider
the profound isolation and insecurity of the middle class in
largely poor and extremely unequal countries.  Modernization theorists, inhabiting a simple world defined
by the ideological binaries of communism and capitalism, could
hardly anticipate the vast, complex and unpredictable forces of
economic globalization: how they would weaken national
sovereignty and turn electoral democracy itself into another
source of the seemingly permanent political conflict and
instability in much of the world.  This is true of Thailand, among many other nation-states.
Much like  Vladimir Putin  in Russia, Thaksin, a self-made,
extremely rich businessman, emerged after a devastating economic
crisis in the late 1990s, promising to restore the pride of a
country that felt itself scorned and humiliated by foreigners.  But after initially attracting the support of the urban
middle class, Thaksin and his social-welfarist schemes and
aggressive rhetoric soon alienated its members and -- an
important constituency in Thailand -- the royalist elites in the
military and bureaucracy. Like many successful populists,
Thaksin had sighted an electorally underrepresented majority
among Thailand’s rural and urban poor. As it turned out,
securing their votes was as far as he was willing to go in the
direction of democracy.  Even as he instituted universal health care, and
consolidated his base among a large population left behind by
economic growth, Thaksin cracked down on press freedoms,
undermined the judiciary, and started a bloody assault on the
Malay Muslim population of south Thailand. Projecting, like
Putin in Chechnya, an image of brute machismo, Thaksin became
East  Asia ’s leading exemplar of crony capitalism, installing his
friends and relatives in strategic positions in the state and
the private sectors.  Middle-Class Autocrats  Finally,  Thailand (THGDPYOY) ’s older, paternalistic elites revolted
against Thaksin’s attempt to create a one-man democracy.
Confronted with an invincibly popular politician, they were
forced to resort in 2006 to an old-fashioned military coup,
endowing Thaksin with the aura of a martyred democrat.
Successive elections, most recently in  2011 , have proved that a
majority of Thais still back Thaksin, despite his contempt for
civil liberties.  But then again, the middle class that ultimately turned
against Thaksin has even weaker democratic credentials.
Certainly, the Cold War prejudice that middle-class
beneficiaries of capitalism are programmed for democracy looks
ready for the trash-heap of history. In  Russia , the small middle
class created during Putin’s long reign co-existed happily,
until very recently, with an oligarchic dictatorship that
impoverished the majority of Russians.  The lack of progressive political choices is evident even
in  India , routinely described as the world’s largest democracy,
where a middle-class campaign against corruption last year was
led by a man with a Taliban-like faith in the virtues of
hanging, flogging and amputation. Last month a survey in India
Today revealed Narendra Modi, a Hindu nationalist implicated in
a pogrom that killed 2,000 Muslims in 2002, as the middle
class’s top choice as prime minister.  Middle classes in Singapore and  Malaysia  complained little
about the strictures imposed by their governments. The
conservative nationalism of  China ’s middle-class beneficiaries
of post-Mao economic growth is well-documented. Until the Asian
financial crisis, the Suharto regime in  Indonesia  enjoyed broad
and eager support among the country’s middle class.  In some countries, the elections that are usually the means
to the end of democracy have become ends in themselves. Thailand
has had its nak leuaktang, or “electocrats,” professional
politicians primarily devoted to self-enrichment. India’s
leading public intellectual, Ashis Nandy, believes that his
country’s much-battered democracy, too, is dwindling into
“psephocracy.”  So what, you might wonder, is the fate of democracy in
large parts of the world? But that is not the question we should
be asking now, even if it was piously and frequently raised
during the heyday of modernization theory. Today, a political
inquiry about any country should start with this question: Which
figure or political formation looks likely to manage the social,
political and economic conflicts unleashed by uneven
globalization, and on whose behalf?  Certainly, as the cases of China, India, Russia and
Thailand reveal, authoritarian figures offering quick
technocratic solutions to political and economic problems are
here to stay. They will seek support among the beneficiaries of
globalization even as they try to keep the masses passively
committed to, or distracted by, the larger project of national
greatness.  Of course, once the masses have been awakened, they will
demand a larger share of the political and economic goods,
bringing them inevitably into conflict with already privileged
classes.  It would be absurd to predict a repeat of the 1930s, when
freshly politicized mass societies, angered by internal chaos
and humiliations abroad, and frustrated with the weaknesses of
bourgeois democracy, eagerly embraced authoritarian rulers. No
pivotal event like the burning of the Reichstag has so far
occurred. Yet, walking through  Southeast Asia ’s biggest mall, I
couldn’t help wondering if its immolation in 2010 might one day
possess the same iconic significance.  ( Pankaj Mishra , whose new book, “From the Ruins of Empire:
The Revolt against the West and the Remaking of Asia,” will be
published in August, is a Bloomberg View columnist, based in
 London  and Mashobra, India. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Pankaj Mishra at  pmashobra@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 