-- Airlines Seek New Financing on Europe Retreat, Planemakers Say
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-02-13T07:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/airlines-seek-new-financing-on-europe-retreat-planemakers-say.html
Airlines will turn to new sources of
funding for plane purchases as European banks pare lending and
trade rules curtail the use of government-backed loans, said
Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)   “We are not facing a general shortage of financing for
airlines, but we are in the period of re-orientation,” Airbus
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Enders  told reporters today in
Singapore, where he is attending an air show. Traditional
sources “are more scarce than before.”  Carriers may sell more bonds and make greater use of
financing from leasing companies and Asian lenders to pay for 
planes, Boeing said. Banks in  Europe  will probably cut lending 
to customers including airlines because of the region’s debt 
crisis and tightened regulations.  “European banks will step back a little in terms of
financing this year,”  Randy Tinseth , marketing vice president
for Boeing’s commercial airplanes unit, said at a separate
briefing. “The  capital markets  will play a more and more
important role in financing new deliveries.”  Airlines boosted global debt sales 56 percent last year to
$12 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The extra
yield investors demand to hold dollar debt from airlines has
dropped 140 basis points this year to 777 basis points,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High Yield Air
Transportation index.  Capital Needs  As much as $90 billion will be needed to fund new plane
deliveries this year, a 20 percent increase,  Fitch Ratings  said
in December. Of that, as much as 25 percent will come from cash
or equity, creating a requirement for as much as $70 billion in
financing from other sources, it said.  Asian lenders are playing a greater role in aircraft
financing as they expand and as European lenders retreat.
 Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  last month agreed to buy
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s leasing unit for about $7.3
billion. Chinese banks including Industrial & Commercial  Bank of
China Ltd. (3988)  and  Bank of China Ltd.  are also expanding leasing
businesses.  “There is a lot of money around,” Enders said. “I am
optimistic.”  Boeing, based in Chicago, expects the Export-Import Bank of
the United States to play a decreasing role in plane-financing
starting next year as new rules will increase rates and prompt
airlines to look at other funding sources, Tinseth said. The Ex-
Im Bank provided guarantees for about 29 percent of plane
purchases last year, Boeing’s financing arm said last month.  In 2013, a new Aircraft Sector Understanding will come into
effect, which will govern export credit agency lending for plane
purchases. Government financing has previously stoked trade
disputes between the U.S. and Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  