-- Lance Armstrong Gets Runner-up Finish in 70.3-Mile Ironman Triathlon Debut
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-02-13T05:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/lance-armstrong-gets-runner-up-finish-in-70-3-mile-ironman-triathlon-debut.html
Lance Armstrong  was passed in the
final mile of the run and finished second in his 70.3-mile
Ironman triathlon debut as the seven-time Tour de  France  winner
seeks to qualify for the sport’s world championship.  The 40-year-old Armstrong, who quit professional cycling in
February 2011 to focus on his Livestrong charity, finished
yesterday’s Ironman Panama 70.3 race in a time of 3 hours, 50
minutes and 55 seconds. He was 42 seconds behind winner Bevan
Docherty of  New Zealand , a two-time Olympic medalist.  Following a 1.2-mile swim, Armstrong took a share of first
place on the 56-mile bike ride. He lost the lead early on the
13.1-mile run before moving back in front and held off Docherty
until being passed in mile 12.  “It was a completely new experience for me,” Armstrong
said in an interview posted on the Ironman website. “I didn’t
know what to expect. I didn’t know strategically how these races
go down, so I tried to feel my way out on the bike and basically
take a crash course in 70.3s.”  Armstrong also will compete in 70.3-mile half Ironman
events in  Texas  in April,  Florida  in May, and  Hawaii  on June 2.
He’ll then race a 140.6-mile full Ironman event on June 24 in
Nice, France, in his quest to earn enough points to qualify for
the Ironman World Championships in Hawaii on Oct. 13.  While Armstrong won the  Tour de France , cycling’s most
prestigious event, each year from 1999 to 2005 after surviving
testicular cancer that had spread to his brain and lungs, he
said the bike portion of a triathlon race is much different.  Strategic Ride  “If I had to use one word to sum it up, I would say it’s
tactical,” Armstrong said. “Although I think everyone stayed
outside of the draft zone, it’s still very strategic, everyone
looking at each other and afraid to make a move. I didn’t know
what to expect.”  Armstrong competed as a professional triathlete at age 18
before focusing on cycling. He finished fifth in the Xterra USA
Championship off-road triathlon in  Utah  in September, before
committing to the Ironman races.  He said he’d done a lot of running in the leadup to his
Ironman debut.  “That’s the way you’re competitive here, that’s the way
you win races,” Armstrong said. “You ride for show and run for
dough. At one point in my life I was a decent runner, so I’ve
got to go back and rediscover that.”  World Triathlon, which owns the Ironman brand, disclosed
Armstrong’s participation in its events last week as part of a
 partnership  with Livestrong. With the agreement, Ironman will be
a sponsor of the charity and auction four amateur slots for its
world championship, with proceeds going to the charity.
Armstrong’s Austin, Texas-based Livestrong charity has raised
more than $325 million, according to its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  