-- ANZ Bank to Cut 1,000 Jobs This Year, Freeze Most Senior Executives’ Pay
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-02-13T07:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/anz-bank-to-cut-1-000-jobs-this-year-freeze-most-senior-executives-pay.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd ., the third-largest bank in Australia, plans to
eliminate about 1,000 jobs and reiterated a pay freeze for most
senior executives as it combats a slump in lending growth.  The domestic cuts will be made by Sept. 30 and will
primarily involve middle-management, back-office and support
staff, the Melbourne-based bank said in an e-mailed statement
today. ANZ Bank currently employs 49,000 people globally,
including about 24,000 in Australia, it said.  ANZ Bank joins  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in confirming plans to
reduce jobs as the nation’s lenders confront the weakest demand
for home lending since 1977. The two banks, citing a surge in
wholesale funding costs, raised on Feb. 10 their standard
variable  mortgage rates  independently of the central bank, which
left borrowing costs unchanged last week.  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia (CBA)  and  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  increased their rates
today.  “You’d expect banks to be very vigilant on costs in the
current environment and to do whatever is needed to pull the
cost lever very hard,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage
about $1 billion at Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney.
“The banks up until the crisis have had 15 years of stellar
profit and revenue growth and during that period you would
expect a bit of fat has been built into the system.”  Shares (ANZ)  of ANZ Bank rose 1.6 percent to A$21.77 in Sydney.
The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 stock index gained 0.9 percent. ANZ
Bank is scheduled to publish on Feb. 17 a trading update for the
three months ended Dec. 31.  Westpac Cuts  “A different and very difficult environment is now
emerging for banks globally,” Philip Chronican, chief executive
officer of ANZ Bank’s Australian business, said in today’s
statement. “Just as we are seeing in other parts of the
Australian economy, we are also having to adapt our business to
the new conditions and become leaner, more agile and more
customer-focused so we ensure the bank remains strong and can
grow and invest for the future.”  As many as 400 people will lose their job at Westpac,
 Australia ’s second-largest bank, with most of the positions
affected to be from the Sydney-based lender’s head office and
technology and operations divisions, spokeswoman Supreet Gosal
said Feb. 2.  Peter Hanlon, Westpac’s acting head of Australian financial
services, told the Australian newspaper on Feb. 2 that a
slowdown in business and consumer activity is happening across
the board. He said conditions are as bad as he’s seen them in
his 30 years of banking, according to the newspaper.  Two-speed Economy  UBS AG forecast last month that Australian banks may
eliminate 7,000 jobs in the next two years as they seek to pare
labor costs that account for 58 percent of expenses.  Companies outside of Australia’s booming mining industry
are struggling, and the so-called two-speed nature of the
nation’s economy was reflected in the loss of 29,300 jobs in
December, capping the worst year for employment since 1992.  ANZ Bank staff in Australia were told today of 492 roles
affected by the reductions, the lender said in the statement.  “In this environment, the right thing to do is to be
upfront with our staff and with the community about the changes
needed in banking and their implications,” ANZ Bank’s Chronican
said. “We are acutely conscious of the impact of these
reductions on individual staff members and we will be making
every effort to use natural attrition, to redeploy staff, and to
utilize our training funds to support those people affected.”  ‘No Justification’  Today’s job cut brings the number of finance industry
reductions since the start of the year to 2,000, according to
the  Finance Sector Union , which represents some bank workers.  “There is no justification for any Australian bank to
slash jobs,” Leon Carter, the union’s national secretary, told
reporters in Melbourne today. Given their combined profit of
more than A$24 billion ($25.7 billion) last year, “if anyone
can afford to invest in Australian finance jobs it is our four
big banks,” Carter said.  ANZ Bank will also continue to “constrain senior executive
salary increases,” as part of a measure it announced last year,
the bank said in today’s statement.  For “most senior executives, that means salaries will
remain fixed for the 2012 financial year,” the bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in  Melbourne  at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  