-- Apple IPads Seized in Infringement Case, Hebei Youth Daily Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-13T10:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/apple-ipads-seized-in-infringement-case-hebei-youth-daily-says.html
Officials in northern  China  seized
45 iPads in response to a complaint that  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s tablet
infringes a trademark owned by  Proview International Holdings
Ltd. (334) , the Hebei Youth Daily reported.  The tablets were seized at markets in Shijiazhuang, capital
of Hebei province, the newspaper reported, citing Gao Wei, an
official on the inspection team. Carolyn Wu, a Beijing-based
spokeswoman for Apple, declined to comment on the news report,
when reached by phone today.  Apple sued Proview’s Shenzhen-based subsidiary in April
2010, claiming ownership of the iPad trademark in China. The
Shenzhen Intermediate People’s Court rejected Apple’s claims on
Nov. 17, Hong Kong-listed Proview said in a Dec. 15 regulatory
filing. Apple appealed that ruling to the Higher People’s Court
of Guangdong province on Jan. 5, Proview said in a Jan. 27
filing.  Investigations of Proview’s trademark infringement claims
are being conducted in cities including Beijing,  Shanghai , and
Shenzhen, the Hebei Youth Daily said.  Proview’s shares have been suspended from trading in  Hong
Kong  since Aug. 2, 2010.  The Taipei-based unit of Proview, a maker of computer
displays, registered the iPad trademark in a number of countries
as early as 2000, according to a report from China’s state-run
Xinhua News Agency in December. The Shenzhen-based unit
registered the trademark in China in 2001, according to Xinhua.  Apple bought rights to use the iPad trademark from
Proview’s Taipei unit in 2009 with a payment of $54,616, however
Proview’s Shenzhen unit reserved rights to use the trademark in
China, according to Xinhua.  Apple began sales of the iPad in 2010.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  