-- Apple Vaults Google in Image as Buffett’s Berkshire Slips
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-02-13T21:37:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/apple-tops-google-for-no-1-image-as-buffett-s-berkshire-slips.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , burnished by the
iPhone’s success and memorials to  Steve Jobs , displaced  Google
Inc. (GOOG)  as top company in  Harris Interactive (HPOL) ’s poll of corporate
images.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and Johnson & Johnson dropped.  Apple earned the highest score in the 13-year history of
Harris’ survey of U.S. consumers, buoyed by the Cupertino,
California-based company’s financial success and products like
last year’s iPhone 4S, said Robert Fronk, the pollster’s
executive vice president. The rise came even as corporate
America’s reputation sank, hurt by sagging views of the
financial industry, Harris said today in a statement.  “After a little positive momentum last year, across the
board, we saw the tarnish come back,” Fronk said in a telephone
interview. “Whether it’s due to Occupy Wall Street or the bad
news in general, the negatives of the banking and financial-
services industries are spreading.”  J&J (JNJ) , the world’s second-biggest seller of health-care
products, fell to seventh after three years of product recalls,
the first time the reputation of the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based company has ranked below the top two in Harris’ annual
poll. Berkshire, based in Omaha, Nebraska, plunged from fourth
place to 24th, after an executive resigned in March and was
accused by Chairman  Warren Buffett  of violating the firm’s
insider trading rules.  Only eight companies were rated as “excellent” in Harris’
poll of 17,000 people, half the number in 2011.  Google, Coke  Google, the Mountain View, California-based owner of the
world’s most-popular search engine, slipped to second place from
first last year. Rounding out the top five were  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ,
based in Atlanta, followed by  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  of Seattle, and
 Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , based in Northfield, Illinois.  Apple topped the public’s ratings for vision and
leadership, products and services, financial performance and
workplace environment, four of the six categories that Harris
tracked. The company’s shares topped the $500 mark at the close
today and advanced 41 percent in the past 12 months.  Along with the glow of products like the iPhone and iPad,
Apple benefited from the praise aimed at co-founder Jobs, said
Harris’ Fronk. The former chief executive officer, who rescued
Apple from the brink of bankruptcy when he returned to the
company in 1997, died on Oct. 5. The poll’s online surveys were
conducted from Dec. 2 to Dec. 19.  “The outpouring around him as a visionary leader probably
played a strong role in where they ended up,” Fronk said.  Steve Dowling, an Apple spokesman, didn’t immediately
return a message seeking comment on the Harris poll.  Berkshire Revelations  Berkshire’s slide followed the March resignation of
executive  David Sokol , amid revelations that he had bought
shares of a Buffett takeover target. In interviews, respondents
also cited the company’s ties to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
New York-based bank in which Buffett invested $5 billion in
2008. Goldman ranked 59th, second to last, in this year’s poll.
Financial firms suffered four of the five biggest drops in
reputation from last year.  Buffett may also have suffered from his endorsement of
President Barack Obama’s so-called “Buffett rule,” Fronk said.
Democrats said the proposal would ensure the wealthy don’t pay
lower tax rates than other Americans. U.S. Representative
Michele Bachmann, a Republican candidate for president last
year, dismissed the idea as a “sound bite” and suggested
Buffett donate his fortune to the government if he felt he
wasn’t paying enough.  Buffett didn’t respond to a request for comment about the
poll e-mailed to his assistant.  View of J&J  While J&J, which sells  products  as varied as cancer drugs,
Band-Aids and artificial hips, remained among the most reputable
companies, there were worrisome signs that it no longer
commanded respect on vision, leadership and emotional appeal,
Fronk said. Consumers questioned one of J&J’s “bedrock
strengths,” the idea that it can be counted on to “do the
right thing,” Fronk said.  “They’ve got a window here where, if they can prove to the
general public and their customers that this was a blip, then
they can bring some of those not-sure or neutral people back,”
he said. “If there’s a belief that it’s a long-term erosion,
they’re going to take a hit” to sales as well as their image.  J&J was pleased to again rank “among the most reputable
companies among U.S. consumers,”  William Price , a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We remain in a category of
companies with an excellent reputation, reflecting the
unrelenting commitment our employees have for the needs of
patients and customers.”  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the New York-based
insurer rescued in a $182.3 billion U.S. bailout, took last
place, just as it did the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  