-- Assadism Without Assad Could Prevent Sectarian Mayhem: Vali Nasr
-- B y   V a l i   N a s r
-- 2012-02-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/assadism-without-assad-could-prevent-sectarian-mayhem-vali-nasr.html
Syria  has arrived at a  tipping
point . After months in which the regime of President Bashar al- Assad clearly held the dominant hand, the forces arrayed against
him have now multiplied to the point where a serious battle is
possible.  The resistance increasingly is armed and taking on the
regime, even controlling towns and villages. The  Arab League  has
abandoned tradition to fully support the opposition. And at the
 United Nations , only Russia and  China  stand in the way of a
resolution calling for Assad to go.  The stakes for Syrians and the Mideast in general go well
beyond how democratic Syria may become after the fighting
ceases. According to the prevailing narrative, the recent
revolutions in the Arab world are battles between the forces of
authoritarianism and freedom. But it is  the long-running rivalry 
between the Shiite and Sunni factions of Islam that is the
dominant dynamic in the region today. Syria is ground zero in
the sectarian great game consuming the  Middle East .  Among the manifestations of this phenomenon are the pro-
democracy protests in Bahrain last spring that quickly turned
into a sectarian clash between the Sunni monarchy and the
majority Shiite population. The prospect of a neighboring
kingdom falling under Shiite rule so alarmed the Sunni rulers of
Saudi Arabia, they sent troops to Bahrain in an effort --  not
entirely successful  -- to end the unrest. That move aggravated
tensions between the Saudi government and that of Shiite-
majority  Iran .  Brutal Bombing Campaign  In Iraq,  sectarian posturing  trumped talk of national unity
the moment the last U.S. troops exited the country in December.
Sunni parties broke with the Shiite-dominated government, and
Sunni extremists resumed their brutal bombing campaign against
Shiite targets.  Lebanon, once the archetype for sectarian mayhem, is again
simmering with Sunni-Shiite tensions. Sunni political parties
have been in a constant state of conflict with the Shiite party
Hezbollah after it strong-armed the Sunni government of Prime
Minister  Saad Hariri  out of office last year, replacing it with
its own choice of Sunni leader. That resulted in a lack of
justice for the 2005 murder of popular Sunni Prime Minister
 Rafiq Hariri , for which a UN-backed  tribunal  blamed four
Hezbollah members.  Among other factors deepening the region’s sectarian divide
are the rise in Egypt, Jordan and Syria of Salafi forces, who
espouse a very narrow definition of who is a Muslim and are
deeply anti-Shiite; Iran’s resentment that some Sunni-led Arab
governments support U.S. pressure on Iran; and  Turkey ’s newfound
interest in speaking for the region’s Sunnis.  Yet nothing is as explosive as the situation in Syria. And
what happens in Syria won’t stay in Syria, which is why so many
other parties are trying to influence the outcome there. For the
past four decades, Syria has been ruled by the country’s Alawite
minority, adherents of a subset of Shiism, who have denied power
to the majority Sunnis. In that sense, Syria today is a mirror
image of Iraq before the U.S. invasion. Syria’s Sunnis, like
Iraq’s Shiites in 2003, stand to gain from regime change, while
Syria’s Alawites, like Iraq’s minority Sunnis at that time, are
clinging desperately to power.  The predominantly Sunni opposition in Syria is backed by
the region’s principal Sunni power brokers:  Saudi Arabia , Turkey
and Qatar. This, once again, has pitted Iran against Saudi
Arabia. And it has clouded relations between Iran and Turkey.  Blow to Iran  The Sunni axis, backed by the U.S. and its European allies,
wants to see Assad fall and a complete change of regime. This
would be a strategic blow to Iran and Hezbollah and would
strengthen the position of Turkey and Saudi Arabia in the
region. A Sunni-dominated Syria would truncate the “Shiite
crescent” that connects Iran, Iraq and Syria and extends into
Lebanon via Hezbollah. Some Saudis go so far as to think that,
combined with U.S. pressure on Iran, this would end the Shiite
threat to regimes in the  Persian Gulf .  The Shiite axis, meanwhile, hopes to keep Assad from
falling.  Iraq ’s Shiite Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki even
pleaded his case to U.S. President  Barack Obama  during his
recent White House visit.  It’s difficult to imagine the Syrian resistance giving up
on its push to knock Assad off his pedestal. At the same time, a
quick collapse of his regime seems unlikely. More probably,
Syria will continue to slide gradually into civil war. Warring
cantons backed by rival regional blocs may emerge. The resultant
bloodshed, sectarian cleansing, refugee crises, assassinations
and bombings could destabilize the whole region.  Iraq would be at particular risk. The country’s sectarian
wounds remain open. Sunnis there are unhappy. Encouraged by
events in neighboring Syria, they once again are turning to
insurgency to secure their future. Iraq’s Sunni tribes already
are major arms conduits for Syria’s rebels. The Sunni
insurrections in Syria and Iraq could combine to create a
dynamic infecting a zone from the Persian Gulf to the
Mediterranean.  Given these terrible scenarios, the U.S. and its European
allies must consider a way out that mitigates these risks. One
option would be to have Assad go but “Assadism” remain.  Yemen 
 offers a precedent . Last year, amid unrest in Yemen, Saudi
Arabia persuaded President Ali Abdullah Saleh to give up power
in exchange for immunity from prosecution, while his clan
remained firmly in control. The  Arab League  has hinted at such a
resolution for Syria, though so far there is no international
support for it.  Having Assad exit with his regime intact could stop the
violence and give Syria an opportunity to reform. Achieving that
would require the U.S. and its partners to work closely with
 Russia , which has a relationship of trust with Assad. The
Russians would need reassurances that post-Assad they would be
able to maintain their naval presence in the Syrian ports of
Latakia and Tartous, the only Mediterranean harbors to which
they have access.  Allowing Assad’s repressive Alawite regime to survive after
he goes would be a distasteful solution. But the reality is that
with Syria, the only choices left are bad ones. This is the
least-bad alternative.  (Vali Nasr is a Bloomberg View columnist, a professor of
international politics at the Fletcher School of Law and
Diplomacy at  Tufts University  and a senior fellow in foreign
policy at the  Brookings Institution . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Vali Nasr at  vali.nasr@tufts.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Lisa Beyer at  lbeyer3@bloomberg.net . 