-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Gain on Greek Austerity Vote, Home Loans Data
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-02-13T01:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/australian-n-z-dollars-gain-on-greek-austerity-vote-home-loans-data.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars rose, snapping three-day losses, after  Greece  passed
austerity measures to qualify for an international bailout,
boosting demand for riskier assets.  The so-called Aussie climbed against the yen after data
showed that Australian home-loan approvals rose in December. The
South Pacific nations’ currencies also strengthened against most
major peers before figures tomorrow that may show U.S. retail
sales and import prices rose in January.  “On the view that Greek legislation is passed, we can see
a bit of upside for the Aussie dollar,” said  Adam Carr , a
senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the
world’s biggest interdealer broker.  Australia’s dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.0697 from the
Feb. 10 close in  New York  as of 12:04 p.m. in Sydney. The Aussie
appreciated 0.3 percent to 83.11 yen. The New Zealand dollar,
known as the kiwi, climbed 0.4 percent to 82.98 U.S. cents and
advanced 0.5 percent to 64.47 yen.  Australia ’s government bonds were little changed with the
yield on the 10-year security at 4 percent.  A total of 199 Greek lawmakers voted in favor of the
austerity plan and 74 against, Parliament Speaker Filippos Petsalnikos said in remarks carried live on state-run Vouli TV.  “It is up to us, our vote, whether the country will remain
in the euro or be led to a disorderly default,” Greek Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos  told parliament. “Voting for the
economic program and opening the road for a loan accord sets the
basis for the modernization and recovery of the economy.”  Greek Vote  Passage of the austerity bill puts the spotlight on a
meeting of euro-region finance ministers on Feb. 15 that must
decide whether to approve the 130 billion euros ($172 billion)
second aid package.  In Australia, the number of loans granted to build or buy
houses and apartments gained 2.3 percent in December from the
previous month, the most since May, after rising a revised 1.8
percent in November, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 1.8
percent increase.  “The domestic economy is very strong,” said ICAP’s Carr.
“This will continue to support Aussie dollar risk trades in
general.  Sales at U.S. retailers probably rose 0.8 percent last
month from December, according to a Bloomberg poll of economists
before the Commerce Department releases its figures tomorrow.
Prices of goods imported into the U.S. increased 0.3 percent in
January, a separate survey indicated before the Labor Department
releases the data tomorrow.  National Australia Bank Ltd. revised up its first-quarter
forecast for the Australian dollar to $1.05 from the previous
projection of 96 U.S. cents in January, according to a research
note published today.  -- Editors: Jonathan Annells, Benjamin Purvis  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 