-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Gain on Greek Vote, Home Loans Data
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-02-13T05:59:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/australian-n-z-dollars-gain-on-greek-vote-home-loans-data.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars advanced, snapping three days of declines, after  Greece 
passed austerity measures to qualify for an international
bailout, boosting demand for riskier assets.  The so-called Aussie climbed against the yen after data
showed that Australian home-loan approvals increased in
December. The South Pacific nations’ currencies also rose
against most major peers before figures tomorrow that may show
U.S. retail sales and import prices increased in January.  “On the view that Greek legislation is passed, we can see
a bit of upside for the Aussie dollar,” said  Adam Carr , a
senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the
world’s biggest interdealer broker. “The domestic economy is
very strong. This will continue to support Aussie dollar risk
trades.”  Australia ’s dollar advanced 0.6 percent to $1.0739 as of
4:58 p.m. in Sydney. The Aussie appreciated 0.6 percent to 83.37
yen. The New Zealand dollar, known as the kiwi, climbed 0.9
percent to 83.42 U.S. cents and advanced 0.9 percent to 64.76
yen.  Australia’s government bonds declined, with the yield on
the 10-year security rising three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 4.03 percent. Three-year yields rose two
basis points to 3.55 percent.  Greek Vote  A total of 199 Greek lawmakers voted in favor of the
austerity plan and 74 against, Parliament Speaker Filippos Petsalnikos said in remarks carried live on state-run Vouli TV.  “It is up to us, our vote, whether the country will remain
in the euro or be led to a disorderly default,” Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos  told parliament. “Voting for the economic
program and opening the road for a loan accord sets the basis
for the modernization and recovery of the economy.”  Passage of the austerity bill puts the spotlight on a
meeting of euro-region finance ministers on Feb. 15 that must
decide whether to approve the 130 billion-euro ($172 billion)
second aid package.  In Australia, the number of loans granted to build or buy
houses and apartments rose 2.3 percent in December from the
previous month, the most since May, after rising a revised 1.8
percent in November, the statistics bureau said in Sydney today.
The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 1.8
percent increase.  Home Loans  The “rise in housing finance is positive for the economic
outlook more generally,”  Rob Henderson , chief economist for
markets at National Australia Bank Ltd., wrote in a note to
clients today. “This is a piece of evidence giving credence to
the Bank’s decision to keep rates on hold in February.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia unexpectedly left its
benchmark rate unchanged at 4.25 percent on Feb. 7 amid signs
that  Europe  is beginning to contain its sovereign-debt crisis
and the U.S. recovery is gaining strength. The decision was
predicted by three of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, with
the other 24 forecasting a quarter-percentage point reduction.  A Credit Suisse Group AG  index  based on swaps shows that
traders are betting the RBA will cut its main rate by 59 basis
points over the next 12 months. That compares with 104 points of
reductions indicated on Feb. 1.  National Australia Bank raised its first-quarter forecast
for the Australian dollar to $1.05, according to a research note
published today. Its previous projection in January was for the
currency to be at 96 U.S. cents.  Sales at U.S. retailers probably rose 0.8 percent last
month from December, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists before the Commerce Department releases its figures
tomorrow. Prices of goods imported into the U.S. are forecast to
have increased 0.3 percent in January, a separate survey
indicated before the Labor Department releases the data
tomorrow.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 