-- Avon Products Said to Be Focus of U.S. Grand Jury Probe of Chinese Bribery
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-13T20:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/avon-products-said-to-be-probed-by-u-s-grand-jury-tied-to-bribery-claims.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  is the subject of
a U.S. grand jury investigation into whether ex-employees in
 China  paid bribes to officials in violation of U.S. anti-
corruption laws, according to a person familiar with the matter.  Jennifer Vargas, a spokeswoman for New York-based Avon, the
world’s largest door-to-door cosmetics merchant, declined to
comment on the probe by the Manhattan grand jury.  In regulatory filings last year, Avon said it had fired
four executives suspected of paying bribes to officials in
China. The company also disclosed an internal investigation into
its compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The
ex-executives included the general manager and finance chief of
the China unit, which generates 2 percent of Avon’s revenue.  The internal probe is focused on entertainment and gift
expenses “in connection with our business dealings, directly or
indirectly, with foreign governments,” according to one of its
 filings .  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is also
investigating, Avon said in October.  The U.S. probe disclosed by the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public, was reported earlier
by the Wall Street Journal.  An internal Avon audit found several hundred thousand
dollars in questionable payments to Chinese officials and third-
party consultants in 2005, the newspaper reported.  Executives Leave  Avon executives who saw the audit report didn’t disclose
the findings to board audit or finance committees or the full
board, the newspaper said.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  Avon in January said Charles Cramb, vice chairman of its
developed market group, left the company amid the internal
investigation into bribery. Cramb, who was previously chief
financial officer, departed on Jan. 29, Avon said in a filing.  Cramb is the most senior executive to leave in connection
with the internal probe, which began in 2008 with scrutiny of
allegations of improper travel, entertainment and other expenses
at Avon’s Chinese operations.  The company has also fired four executives including S.K.
Kao, the general manager in China, and Jimmy Beh, the finance
chief of the China unit.  None has been accused of wrongdoing.  Compliance Reviews  Avon announced in December that Chief Executive Officer
 Andrea Jung  was stepping down. Jung, who had run Avon since
1999, remains as chairman.  In its filings Avon has said it is conducting compliance
reviews “in a number of other countries selected to represent
each of the company’s international geographic segments.”  Avon has hired outside lawyers to conduct the internal
investigation, the company said. The probe is being conducted
under the oversight of Avon’s audit committee, according to a
company filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net  