-- Bahrain Security Chief Warns Against Protests, Disorder
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-02-13T15:15:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/bahrain-security-chief-warns-against-protests-disorder.html
Bahrain’s chief of public security
warned Bahrainis against responding to calls for protests,
saying that civil disorder and chaos won’t be tolerated.  The warning comes amid increasing protests by the mostly
Shiite Muslim opposition ahead of tomorrow’s anniversary of
anti-government rallies demanding democracy and equal rights in
the island nation ruled by a Sunni monarch. Opposition groups
have been urging followers to head to Pearl Roundabout, the
center of the 2011 rallies, which was subsequently demolished
and placed off-limits to demonstrators.  “Incitement through social media channels” creates
disorder, Major-General Tariq al-Hassan said, according to a
statement posted on the Interior Ministry’s website. “Any
disturbance that arises will be treated according to the law,
especially if the safety of the nation or peoples’ lives are at
stake.”  A march by al-Wefaq, the largest Shiite group, in the
afternoon began peacefully and then turned violent with
participants hurling Molotov cocktails and rocks at police and
setting light to private property on a major street, the
Interior Ministry said in a posting on Twitter. It said legal
measures were being taken to disperse the crowds.  Stun Grenades  Opposition groups said via social media that riot police
were using tear gas and stun grenades to quash the protest.
Troops could be seen on a highway in the vicinity of the former
Pearl roundabout as a helicopter circled overhead.  “Security forces have reverted to the worst of medieval
practices, including assaulting peaceful people,” opposition
parties said in a joint statement.  Thirty-five people died last year in the government
crackdown against protests. The opposition says many more have
died from tear gas inhalation and torture, allegations the
government denies. Authorities yesterday closed roads leading
from Shiite villages to the roundabout and also clashed with
demonstrators in several villages.  The ruling al-Khalifa family invited troops from  Saudi
Arabia  and other Gulf Cooperation Council countries last year to
help restore order. It accused Shiite-ruled Iran of encouraging
the unrest, a claim Tehran has denied. Shiites represent about
two-thirds of Bahrain’s native population, according to the U.S.
State Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  