-- Baht Falls on Speculation Importer Dollar Demand Increasing
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-02-13T02:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/baht-falls-on-speculation-importer-dollar-demand-increasing.html
Thailand ’s baht dropped for a third
day on speculation importers will step up purchases of the
dollar to take advantage of a more favorable  exchange rate .  The baht reached a three-month high last week as global
funds purchased $420 million more Thai equities than they sold
and bought a net $1.6 billion of government debt, data from the
stock exchange and the Thai Bond Market Association show.
Imports rose 19.6 percent in December after a slide of 1.9
percent in November as the country recovered from last year’s
floods, official data show. Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
won parliamentary approval over the weekend for austerity
measures to secure funds.  “There is speculation of increased dollar demand from
importers as the current levels are not so bad for them,” said
Tohru Nishihama, an economist at Dai-ichi Life Research
Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “With concern about Greek default
easing, risk sentiment is improving in general, which is
supporting fund inflows to the region.”  The baht fell 0.1 percent to 30.87 per dollar as of 8:47
a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has strengthened 2.2 percent this year and touched a
three-month high of 30.68 on Feb. 9.  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy may expand 4.9
percent this year, compared with a previous prediction of 4.8
percent, the Bank of Thailand said on Feb. 3. The monetary
authority cut its growth estimate for last year to 1 percent
from 1.8 percent on the same day.  The yield on the 3.25 percent notes due June 2017 was
little changed at 3.16 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  