-- Bank Deal’s $1 Billion Infusion Makes FHA’s Need for U.S. Aid ‘Obsolete’
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-02-13T20:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/bank-deal-s-1-billion-infusion-makes-fha-s-need-for-u-s-aid-obsolete-.html
The  Federal Housing Administration ,
beset with dwindling reserves and failing loans, won’t require
an infusion of government aid thanks to last week’s legal
settlements with mortgage lenders and servicers, Acting
Commissioner Carol Galante said.  A budget plan sent to Congress today projected that the FHA
could require as much as $688 million from the U.S. Treasury
Department to remain solvent. It would be the first cash
infusion in the agency’s history.  That estimate is “obsolete,” Galante said, because five
of the nation’s largest banks last week agreed to inject about
$1 billion into the agency’s capital reserve fund to settle
fraud and foreclosure claims.  “This is not luck,” Galante said. “This was a result of
us going after these lenders to ensure that we would be
compensated for losses that we might incur.”  On Feb. 9, the five banks reached a $25 billion settlement
with 49 states and the federal government to end an
investigation of abusive foreclosure practices. That settlement
will pay approximately $500 million into the FHA, which is part
of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.  On the same day, HUD reached an agreement with  Bank of
America Corp.  to settle claims that Countrywide Financial Corp.,
which it purchased in 2008, sold FHA mortgages to unqualified
borrowers. That agreement will inject another $500 million into
the agency, Galante said.  Premium Increase  “It’s more than enough to compensate for the negative
estimate for the draw on Treasury,” she said.  The agency also plans to announce another premium increase
in the coming days, Galante said.  “This is a technicality that allows HUD to state that the
insurance fund will not need extraordinary assistance,” said
Clifford Rossi, a professor at the  University of Maryland  and
former managing director of Citigroup’s consumer lending group.  The FHA, created in 1934 with the goal of expanding
homeownership, charges lenders and borrowers a fee in exchange
for a guarantee that mortgages will be paid. The agency has
grown rapidly since the 2008 subprime lending collapse drove
private lenders out of the market. The FHA now insures more than
a third of home purchases.  The agency’s cash reserves hit a record low of $2.6 billion
last year. Since 2008 the FHA has paid $37 billion in claims
related to defaulted mortgages.  Earlier this month, President  Barack Obama  said he would
ask Congress to approve a plan that would make it easier for
households to refinance their mortgages, even if they owe more
than the homes are worth.  Residential real estate values have dropped 33 percent from
their July 2006 peak and have left about 11 million households
underwater, or owing more on their homes than the properties are
worth. Earlier this month, the Federal Reserve Board  called the
housing market “depressed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  