-- Bank Lending-Target Miss Is ‘Disappointing,’ Says U.K. Treasury
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2012-02-13T13:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/bank-lending-target-miss-is-disappointing-says-u-k-treasury.html
U.K. Treasury minister Mark Hoban
said figures showing banks missed their target on new lending to
small and medium-sized businesses were “disappointing.”  While  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Santander U.K.
collectively lent 214.9 billion pounds ($339.6 billion) to
business, beating a target agreed with the government by 13
percent, they lent 74.9 billion pounds to small and medium-sized
companies, defined as those with revenue of less than 25 million
pounds annually. That amounted to 98.6 percent of the amount
pledged under the so-called Project Merlin deal of 2011.  “It is disappointing that lending to small and medium-
sized businesses did miss the target by a billion pounds, but
let’s not forget banks lent 9 billion pounds more to small- and
medium-sized businesses in 2011 than 2010,” Hoban said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television today.  The agreement lasted for 2011 and will not be extended,
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said in November. The
government will guarantee 20 billion pounds of lending to
businesses with revenue of 50 million pounds or less, in the
next two years, Osborne said.  “The news that the lending targets for small- and medium-
sized businesses set under Project Merlin have been missed will
add insult to injury for firms struggling to get the finance
they need to survive and expand,” Chuka Umunna, the opposition
 Labour Party ’s business spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The five lenders promised the government last year to
provide gross new credit of 190 billion pounds to businesses,
including 76 billion pounds to smaller firms. Businesses should
be encouraged to consider alternative financing to bank loans,
such as equity raisings, Hoban said.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman, Steve Field,
said: “The world changed in the middle of last year. These
targets were set at the beginning of last year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Maryam Nemazee in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  