-- Barclays’ McGee Gets Unrivaled Golfing Experience in Woods-Mickelson Duel
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-13T06:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/barclays-skip-mcgee-takes-part-in-woods-mickelson-golf-duel.html
Skip McGee, the global head of
 investment banking  at  Barclays Plc (BARC) , walked off the 18th hole at
 Pebble Beach  Golf Links with a memory of a lifetime and an
unrivaled experience for a non-professional sportsman -- playing
a competitive round with both  Tiger Woods  and  Phil Mickelson .  McGee, 52, played all four rounds of the Pebble Beach
National Pro-Am tournament with Mickelson, who won the U.S. PGA
Tour event for a fourth time by shooting an 8-under-par 64 in
yesterday’s final round on California’s Monterey Peninsula.  Mickelson was paired in the final round with Woods, making
McGee and Woods’s partner, Dallas Cowboys quarterback  Tony Romo ,
the only amateur golfers ever to play a competitive round with
both. While Romo is a professional athlete who regularly breaks
par and has sought to qualify for the  U.S. Open , McGee sports a
15-handicap more familiar to most weekend duffers.  “It was kind of like having three guys from the New York
Philharmonic Orchestra and they bring a guy from the middle
school band up to play with them,” McGee said in an interview
behind the grandstand at Pebble Beach’s 18th hole.  McGee, an oil and gas banker, was previously Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s head of investment banking. When U.K.-
based Barclays bought parts of Lehman in 2008, McGee was tapped
to run the merged division.  He plays his golf out of Houston Country Club and this year
was his first visit to the Pebble Beach Pro-Am, which features
professionals playing with amateurs such as Green Bay Packers
quarterback  Aaron Rodgers  and comedians  Bill Murray  and George Lopez.  Previous Meetings  The chairman of Barclays’ Investment Banking Executive
Committee, McGee said he’s occasionally played six holes in
client-related events with Mickelson, who is sponsored by the
bank. He’d never previously played a full round with the four-
time major winner.  McGee said he was nervous when he found out his final-day
group would include Woods, whose 71 PGA Tour wins include 14
major titles, the second-most in history. It was the 10th time
Woods and Mickelson, whose 40 PGA Tour wins rank second among
active players, played together on the last day of a tournament.  “I really spent a lot of time on the range in the morning
working on tempo to keep from getting nervous, getting too fast
and missing shots,” said McGee, who hit his approach shots from
well behind his playing partners on most holes. “I knew
everybody was here not to see me, so I didn’t want to hold up
play. But, at the same time, I didn’t want to be so rushed that
I shanked it or hit a grounder.”  Gallery of Thousands  McGee said both Mickelson and Woods helped put him at ease
during the round, which was played before a gallery of thousands
of fans. Steve John, chief executive officer of the Monterey
Peninsula Foundation, which stages the tournament, said the
presence of Mickelson and Woods prompted final-day ticket sales
to almost hit the course maximum of 37,500.  It was a daunting experience for the banker who, on the
par-4 10th hole, had to hit a fairway wood for his second shot
with Woods standing 30 yards in front of him on the left side of
the fairway and the ocean looming to the right.  “There’s a reason I’m a 15 handicap -- I miss shots,”
McGee said. “I didn’t want to shank one and come close to
hitting Tiger or his caddie.”  McGee said he talked about the economy, work and
Mickelson’s golf course projects with his partner during the
round, while Woods occasionally joked with him -- most notably
after McGee’s popped-up tee shot on the par-3 12th hole.  Green Guidance  Mickelson also helped him read several greens, including
for a birdie attempt on the 17th hole, even though Mickelson was
trying to put the finishing touches on his victory.  As a team, Mickelson and McGee finished 29-under par, six
shots behind the winners in the pro-am portion of the event.  Padraig Harrington  and his partner, Irish racehorse owner
J.P. McManus, shared the team title with Brian Harman and Gregg
Ontiveros, the chief executive officer of  Group O , which has
interests in packaging, logistics and marketing.  McGee said the opportunity to share in Mickelson’s victory
and to be part of a dream group with the two best-known players
in the game was an experience he’ll cherish.  “It was very unique and I’ll treasure it forever,” McGee
said. “It’s something I’ll tell my grandkids about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Pebble Beach,  California  at   matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  