-- Bard, Motorola, Medicaid, Bullfrog: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-02-13T12:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/bard-bayer-motorola-medicaid-bullfrog-intellectual-property.html
C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR) , a maker of
catheters, won a U.S. court ruling that upholds a $371 million
patent-infringement judgment against  W.L. Gore & Associates Inc.   There was “substantial evidence” to support a verdict
that Gore infringed a patent for vascular grafts, the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  said Feb. 10 in
a ruling. Including interest, royalties and fees, Gore owed $783
million as of June, Bard said in a regulatory filing last year.  The case began in 2003 and involves a dispute dating back
to 1974 over a tube that helps retain the shape of non-coronary
blood vessels using a substance known as ePTFE that is similar
to DuPont Co.’s Teflon, according to Bard’s patent 6,436,135.
Closely held Gore, a Newark, Delaware-based maker of surgical
products and fibers, said it uses the substance for its Gore-Tex
fabrics.  Scott Lowry, a spokesman for  Murray Hill , New Jersey-based
Bard, said the company is pleased with the ruling. Officials
with Gore didn’t return telephone calls seeking comment.  A federal jury found in 2007 that Gore infringed a Bard
patent and awarded $185.6 million in damages. U.S. District
Judge Mary Murguia later doubled that amount, based on the
jury’s finding that the infringement was intentional.  The judge also ordered Gore to start paying royalties of
12.5 percent to 20 percent, depending on the type of Gore
grafts. The three-judge appeals panel said Murguia acted within
her discretion to reject Bard’s request to halt Gore’s sales.  Murguia ruled that  Gore (GOWL)  should be able to keep its products
on the market because “it was in the public interest to allow
competition in the medical device arena,” the appeals court
said.  The Federal Circuit, which had earlier ruled that a
researcher with Gore wasn’t the first inventor, said in its 2-1
decision last week that the judge was correct to rule that the
researcher wasn’t a co-inventor either.  The case is Bard Peripheral Vascular Inc. v. W.L. Gore &
Associates Inc., 2010-1510, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Bard
Peripheral Vascular v. W.L. Gore & Associates, 03cv597, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  Bayer Sues Watson Over Patent for Beyaz Birth Control Pill  A unit of  Bayer AG (BAYN) ,  Germany ’s largest drugmaker, sued
 Watson (WPI)  Pharmaceuticals Inc., accusing the generic-drug maker of
violating a patent for Beyaz birth control pills.  Watson, based in Parsippany,  New Jersey , is trying to
develop a copy of Beyaz in violation of the disputed patent
6,153,401, Bayer Pharma AG and partner Merck & Cie. claimed in
court papers filed Feb. 10 in U.S. District Court in Wilmington,
 Delaware .  Bayer and Merck “are entitled to an award of damages and
treble damages for any commercial sale or use” of Watson’s
generic version of Beyaz, the companies said.  Bayer, of Leverkusen, Germany, asked a judge to ban the
sale of any Watson birth control product based on the patent.  Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for Watson, didn’t immediately
return a call for comment.  The case is Merck Cie. v. Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc., U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Motorola Mobility Loses Patent Case Against Apple in Germany  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI) , which has won two rulings
against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in Germany, failed to win a third in a patent
case involving the use of mathematical sequences in mobile
telecommunications.  The Regional Court in Mannheim rejected the suit Feb. 10.
Motorola Mobility didn’t show that Apple is violating the
patent, Presiding Judge Andreas Voss said when delivering the
ruling.  The decision ends a winning streak by Motorola Mobility,
which has twice prevailed over Apple in the same court. More
cases between the two are pending in German courts, including a
bid by Motorola Mobility to enforce its first win from December,
which forced Apple to briefly remove some older iPhones and iPad
models from its online store in Germany last week.  “While we can’t comment on specific details, we will
continue to protect our  intellectual property ,”  Jennifer
Weyrauch-Erickson, a spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Apple spokesman Alan Hely declined to comment.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is buying Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola
Mobility to gain mobile patents and expand its hardware
business. Google’s Android operating system is used by
smartphones from  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Samsung Electronics Co. that
compete with Apple’s iPhone.  Last week’s case is LG Mannheim, 7 O 230/11.  Apple Sues Motorola Mobility to Block Claims in Germany  Apple Inc. sued Motorola Mobility Inc. Feb. 20 in an effort
to block Motorola’s patent-infringement claims against Apple in
Germany.  Apple, in a complaint filed in federal court in  San Diego ,
said Motorola’s German suit is based on claims that Apple’s use
of Qualcomm Inc. components in the iPhone4S violates Motorola’s
European patent. The German suit, Apple claims, is a breach of a
patent-licensing agreement between Motorola and Qualcomm.  “As a Qualcomm customer, Apple is a third-party
beneficiary of that contract,” Apple said in the complaint.
Apple asked the court to block Motorola’s suit in Germany.  Motorola spokeswoman Christa Smith declined to immediately
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Motorola Mobility Inc., 12-CV-
0355, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  California  (San
Diego).  EU’s Almunia ‘Determined’ to Safeguard Fair Access to Patents  European Union Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia 
said he’s “determined” to prevent companies from using patents
to harm competition.  Businesses must offer rivals access to patents used for
industrywide standards on fair, reasonable and non-
discriminatory terms, Almunia said in a speech in Paris.  EU antitrust regulators are probing  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  over possible abuse of patents
to block rivals.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  ‘ELife’ Open-Access Journal First Issue Due Out Summer 2012  The first edition of an open-access journal sponsored by
the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, the Max Planck Society and
the Wellcome Trust is to be published in summer 2012, according
to a  statement  from the three institutions.  The new journal, to be known as “eLife,” will be
published under the Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 license,
which means that its content can be shared and used without
restriction. Editorial decisions are being made by a team of
practicing scientists.  “ELife” is seen by many as a response to the high cost of
journal subscriptions and the cumbersome approval process for
the submission and publication of scholarly articles.  Meanwhile, the  Cost of Knowledge website  set up by
opponents of  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) ’s publishing policies, now has
5,291 signatories, up from more than 1,000 that it had Feb. 1.  Papers submitted to the new journal will undergo what its
sponsors say is an “open and transparent peer review process”
in which papers will be accepted or rejected “as rapidly as
possible,” generally with only one round of revisions.
Reviewers’ comments will be published anonymously.  Editor-in-chief of the publication is  Randy Schekman , a
Howard Hughes Medical Institute researcher at the  University of
California .  Mark Patterson , director of publishing at the Public
Library of Science, is executive editor.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Judge Rejects Trade Secrets Claim for Budget-Reduction Method  The Idaho Department of Health and Welfare’s argument that
the method it uses to cut Medicaid benefits to state residents
is a trade secret that must be protected isn’t finding much
sympathy from a federal judge in that state.  A suit filed Jan. 18 alleged that 12 Idaho Medicaid
recipients were treated unfairly and the state was violating
Medicaid regulations by keeping secret the process by which the
benefits reductions were calculated. In the complaint, the
residents said because of the state’s insistence of secrecy,
“even those who appeal their individual budget reductions,
contending that their budgets were calculated incorrectly,
cannot learn how their budgets were calculated.”  The state’s methodology “is a black box,” akin to a hat
from which the state “magically pulls dollar figures,”
according to the complaint.  On Feb. 3, U.S. District Judge B. Lynn Winmill issued the
first of two temporary orders barring the state from reducing
the plaintiffs’ services through the state’s Medical
Developmental Disabilities program “without providing adequate
and court-approved notice and fair hearing.” He said he issued
the order because the plaintiffs were likely to prove that the
state’s actions didn’t comply with the Medicaid Act and were
likely to bring the plaintiffs “irreparable harm.”  In a second order, issued Feb. 10, Winmill said that the
state must make available to the plaintiffs “unaltered and un-
redacted copies of the spreadsheets used to compute the
individual budget,” and all the materials in each participant’s
case files on which an individual assessment was performed.  Additionally, plaintiffs can request previous versions of
the state’s budget-calculating tools, and an opportunity to
inspect and copy all the materials the department used to train
those who make these decisions. The order stands through May 9.  The 12 plaintiffs, who are identified only by their
initials, are represented by Howard A. Beledoff and Richard Alan
Eppink of  Idaho Legal Aid Services Inc.   The case is K.W. v. Armstrong, 1:12-cv-00022-BLW, U.S.
District Court, District of Idaho (Boise).  Trademark  High School Seeks to Register Calaveras Bullfrog Trademark  A high school in Angels Camp, California, that is named for
one American literary figure is seeking to register a trademark
for an animal made famous by a second, the Calaveras Enterprise
 reported .  Administrators for  Bret Harte High School  plan to register
its bullfrog logo as a trademark to halt local businesses from
selling bullfrog hats and T-shirts without the school’s consent,
according to the newspaper.  Images of the “ Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras
County ,” made famous by  Mark Twain , are showing up on products
sold without permission by “major chains, national chains,”
Heath Lane, the school’s athletic chairman told the Calaveras
Enterprise.  “Without a trademark, an outside organization pretending
to be Bret Harte High could solicit any of our advertising
agencies” and the money would not go to the school, Lane said
and the newspaper reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 