-- Basci’s Low Rates Avert Slump With Less Inflation: Turkey Credit
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-13T11:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/basci-s-low-interest-rates-avert-slump-with-less-inflation-turkey-credit.html
Just a month ago, Turkish bond
 yields  signaled that the economy was heading for a recession.
Now, the nation is growing enough to keep the two-year expansion
alive after the  central bank  slashed interest rates, credit
market measures show.  “The central bank is silently easing to prevent a
recession by allowing money market rates to go lower,” Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-markets economist at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA)  in
Copenhagen, said by e-mail. “The yield curve now shows this.”  Government notes due in two years yield 33 basis points, or
0.33 percentage point, less than 10-year securities, compared
with a premium of 163 basis points on Jan. 5, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Credit-default swaps on Turkey are falling
faster than those insuring German bunds. Traders are also
reducing wagers on swings in the lira, after the currency
tumbled 18 percent last year to a record low against the dollar.  The catalyst for the turnaround, which has pushed two-year
bond yields down faster than in any emerging market, was Erdem Basci, the governor of the Central Bank of the Republic of
 Turkey , who decided to provide funding at 5.75 percent in one-
week repurchase agreement auctions for banks on Jan. 10,
reducing lending rates he varied each day from as high as 12.5
percent.  Investor confidence was shaken last year when the central
bank adopted a discretionary policy of using more than one rate
in an attempt to control inflation without slowing the economy.
Growth in Turkey’s gross domestic product outpaced all major
developing nations in the first nine months except China’s.  Biggest Fall  Turkey’s local-currency debt is outperforming in emerging
markets this year, a sign of confidence in the government’s
policies. Sovereign lira-denominated notes gained 3.3 percent
compared with negative returns for local bonds in both Brazil
and  China  and an increase of 3.1 percent for Russian securities,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show. Local-currency developing
nation debt is up 1.7 percent this year, based on  JPMorgan’s
GBI-Emerging Market Broad index .  Some authorities in the market who declared the worst for
Turkey’s economy have changed their minds.  Benoit Anne , Societe
Generale SA’s chief emerging-markets strategist in  London , told
clients in June that Turkish assets may slide because of central
bank policy. He’s since made an about face, recommending
investors buy into the country’s $283 billion debt market, which
is bigger than Poland’s and twice the size of South Africa’s.  “We are going to see inflows rise further into Turkey’s
local bond market over the next few weeks,” Anne said in e-
mailed response to questions on Feb. 9. “It’s clearly one of my
top picks in emerging markets at this point.”  Expanding Economy  Turkey is the third-biggest nation in  Europe  after Russia
and  Germany , with a population that grew by 1 million to 74.7
million last year, data on the state statistics agency’s website
shows.  The $735 billion economy, the eighth biggest in Europe and
about half the size of Russia’s, has expanded an  average of  5.9
percent each year since 2002, when Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan was first elected, three times the pace in Europe.
Growth reached 9.6 percent in the first nine months of 2011.  Appointed governor in April, Basci is a high school friend
of Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan and holds a master’s degree
in economics from Baltimore, Maryland-based Johns Hopkins
University. He was an advisor to Babacan in 2002 before starting
to work at the central bank as a deputy governor in 2003.  Engineering Lira Slide  The central bank stepped into the money markets in August
after New York-based Bank of America Merrill Lynch and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , pointing to the record current-account deficit
of $78.6 billion, warned that the nation’s growth rate
threatened to send the economy off the rails.  The central bank cut benchmark borrowing costs by 50 basis
points to a record low of 5.75 percent at an emergency meeting
on Aug. 4, a week after deciding to keep them unchanged, in a
move Basci later said was designed to help narrow the deficit by
engineering a slide in the lira. He also set about selling $16
billion of the bank’s foreign exchange reserves, carrying out
the longest streak of daily dollar auctions since 2001, when
more than a dozen Turkish banks collapsed, to help stem the
declines.  The central bank’s surprise August cut introduced
“significant uncertainty and volatility,” analysts including
 David Aserkoff  at JPMorgan in London said at the time.  Tighter Policy  Even as Erdogan, 57, accused unnamed special interests for
encouraging higher  interest rates  and urged the central bank to
keep borrowing costs down, Basci, 45, made it more costly for
banks to borrow in October by introducing tighter monetary
policy. He set a so-called rates corridor and started lending to
banks at a cost of 12.5 percent as well as at the  benchmark rate 
of 5.75 percent, in an effort to slow loan growth of 40 percent
that he said was spurring imports and widening the trade gap.  Basci also raised banks’ reserve requirements to as high as
16 percent of deposits from 8 percent, and the government
increased taxes on imported goods such as cars, alcohol, tobacco
and mobile phones.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in an e-mailed report on
Dec. 15 that the “complexity of central bank policy” meant the
economy was now poised to slide into a recession, joining
Goldman in warning of negative growth in the European Union
candidate.  Lira Slump  By Dec. 28, the lira had declined an annual 18 percent
against the dollar to a record low of 1.9224 and yields on  two-
year bonds  rose 333 basis points from Sept. 5 to 11.01 percent.  Price rises caused by the lira’s weakness had pushed
 inflation  to 10.5 percent in December from 6.3 percent in July.
Basci told executives in the western city of Bursa on Jan. 6
that the “exceptional tightening” had quelled speculation
against the currency and kept it from falling further. Four days
later, Basci switched back to lending to banks at 5.75 percent,
saying the current account deficit had peaked. The bank reserved
the right to raise interest rates or start buying liras without
warning, Basci said.  Reduced lending  rates helped push down the average at which
banks lend to each other by 48 basis points from Jan. 4 to 9.07
percent on Feb. 10.  Yields (BENCH)  on Turkey’s 2013 debt fell 173 basis points this
year to 9.28 percent on Feb. 13 after dropping the most last
month in percentage terms since December 2008. The decline in
2012 is the fourth-biggest worldwide after Ireland, Portugal and
Italy, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Yields had soared 390
basis points last year.  Global Risk  Kjetil Birkeland, a senior analyst at Standish Asset
Management in  Boston , said he expects confidence in Turkey will
persist as long as economic developments in Europe don’t
deteriorate. Global stocks fell for the first time in four days
on Feb. 10 and commodities slid on bets a plan to help  Greece 
avoid default might fail and spread contagion through Europe.
Five ministers resigned from Prime Minister Lucas Papademos’
interim government that day as he pushed through a cabinet
decision to approve the austerity measures. Labor unions
embarking on a 48-hour strike clashed with police in  Athens .  Turkey needs “an environment where Europe remains more or
less stable and global growth does not deteriorate,” said
Birkeland, whose firm manages about $90 billion in fixed-income,
including $12 billion in emerging markets. “It will be very
challenging to finance the current account deficit if Europe
again comes under great stress and the flows into risky assets
come to an end. In that case, we may see a much weaker lira and
bond market.”  The lira gained 7.7 percent against the dollar this year to
1.7554 on Feb. 13. The lira’s implied volatility versus the
dollar over 12 months fell to the lowest since August on Feb. 8.  Foreign Investment  Growing confidence spurred foreign investors to raise their
Turkish bond holdings by $1.7 billion between Jan. 1 and Jan. 27
to $39.3 billion, central bank data show. Turkey’s credit is
rated Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service, two levels below
investment grade, and an equivalent BB by  Standard & Poor’s .  A decline in Turkey’s credit-default swaps, which reflect
the cost of insuring the country’s debt against default, has
also helped attract investors back to the bond market. Five-year
contracts on Turkey’s debt fell by 22.3 basis points this year
to 269 on Feb. 10, after more than doubling last year in the
second-biggest rise on record, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The cost of the swaps is 17 basis points below the average
for governments in Eastern Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa.
The swaps pay buyers face value for underlying securities or
cash equivalent should Turkey fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  Yield Spreads  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Turkey’s
dollar-denominated debt rather than U.S. Treasuries fell to a
two-month low of 348 points on Feb. 9, according to  JPMorgan
indexes (JPSSGTUR) . The spread stood at 366 basis points on Feb. 10.  Societe Generale’s Anne now expects bond yields on two-year
lira debt to slide another 81 basis points to 8.65 percent this
year and the lira to surge 10 percent to 1.60 per dollar, in the
most bullish call for the currency among 22 global banks
surveyed by Bloomberg. The average estimate shows the lira at
1.76 by year-end.  The lira traded at 1.59 per dollar a year ago and reached
its strongest level ever of 1.15 in August 2008, a month before
New York-based Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed.  Economic Stability  Speculation that Turkey’s economy is poised to keep growing
increased last week after the statistics office reported on Feb.
8 that  industrial production  rose 2.7 percent in December from a
month earlier, more than erasing a decline in November. The
trade deficit also narrowed in December for a second month to
$8.1 billion from $8.7 billion, the statistics office said on
Jan. 31, beating analysts’ estimates and easing concern that the
current account deficit threatened economic stability.  ING Groep NV (INGA)  expects the current account deficit to fall to
$72 billion this year, an estimated decline of 32 percent from
2011, as Turkey’s economic growth eases to 2.5 percent, the
bank’s London-based economist Simon Quijano-Evans said in an e-
mail. A pick-up in economic activity in Erdogan’s biggest
trading partner Germany will help exports and curb the trade
gap, said  Tatha Ghose , a senior emerging-market economist at
Commerzbank AG in London, referring to a 1.7 percent rise in
German factory orders in December.  “Orders will jump in the first quarter” for Turkish
exports, Ghose said in e-mailed comments. “Therefore
unofficially I expect 5 percent economic growth this year.”  IMF Forecasts  Ghose’s prediction is more bullish than the  International
Monetary Fund  and the government. The Washington-based IMF
forecasts that the expansion may slow to 0.4 percent this year.
Babacan, the deputy prime minister, said on Jan. 26 that he’s
sticking to his prediction of a 4 percent expansion, adding that
the IMF’s forecast, made in January, was based on data from
months earlier, when the economy was in worse shape.  Growth will be closer to the government’s own forecast, and
Erdogan will take measures to ensure that happens, according to
Gurman Tevfik, the chief executive of Is Asset Management, the
biggest fund investment company in Turkey.  “Unlike European countries, Turkey has no other option
than to grow because its population is young, increasing and
needs jobs,” Tevfik said in an interview in Istanbul.  The expansion will hold as borrowing costs for banks and
consumers fall and inflation slows to a forecast 6.5 percent by
year-end, increasing the attractiveness of Turkish assets, Basci
said at a news conference in Istanbul this month.  Demand for bonds may rise because the central bank has
provided funding at its lower 5.75 percent rate every day for a
month,  Kieran Curtis , who oversees about $3.5 billion in
emerging- market assets at Aviva Investors Ltd., said in e-
mailed comments.  “This will make bonds look more attractive,” Curtis said
from London. “The repo rate of 5.75 percent is where you would
fund bond purchases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  