-- Berkowitz Says ‘To Survive Is to Win’ as Fairholme Wagers on BofA Rebound
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   D o m i n i c   C h u
-- 2012-02-13T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/berkowitz-says-to-survive-is-to-win-in-bet-that-bofa-rebounds.html
Bruce Berkowitz , who presided over
losses last year at his Fairholme Fund as holdings in  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  plunged, said financial firms that endured the
credit crisis in 2008 and 2009 will prosper.  “Investors are going to do well with all of the
survivors,” Berkowitz said in an interview airing today on
Bloomberg Television. “If you go back to the late ‘80s, the
early ‘90s, the last time we went through this extreme cycle, to
survive is to win. And you’re looking at the survivors today.”  Berkowitz started to build the Bank of America stake more
than a year after the lender  acquired  Countrywide Financial
Corp. in 2008, saddling the buyer with mortgage liabilities.
After two bailouts, tens of billions of dollars in costs and at
least 30,000 announced job cuts, Bank of America Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  posted a fourth-quarter profit and the
stock has surged 45 percent this year.  “I like what Brian Moynihan’s doing,” Berkowitz said in a
Feb. 10 interview in  New York  after speaking at the Columbia
Investment Management Conference. “I like the trends.”  Berkowitz also had smaller investments in  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in other funds managed by his
Fairholme Capital Management LLC as of Nov. 30, according to an
 annual report . Both lenders took over faltering rivals and
repaid taxpayer bailouts, as did Bank of America.  BofA’s Plunge  The Fairholme Fund plunged 32 percent last year, compared
with a gain of 2.1 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
counting reinvested dividends. The decline was led by losses on
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, which fell  58
percent  in 2011, and New York-based  American International Group
Inc. (AIG) , the insurer majority owned by the U.S. government.  The Treasury Department will be able to exit its AIG stake
with a profit, Berkowitz said. Fairholme was the insurer’s
 second-largest shareholder  after the U.S. as of Sept. 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund manager added
to Fairholme’s position in last year’s second quarter as the
government offered 200 million shares for $29 each in a May
share sale, lowering its holding to 77 percent of the company.  The Treasury needs to sell its entire stake at an average
price of about $28.72 to recoup its AIG investment. The insurer
 fell 2.5 percent  to $26.66 on Feb. 10 and has closed below the
break-even price every trading day since July 28.  ‘Win for the Country’  “It’s in the interest of the company and the shareholders
and taxpayers” for the government to stay with AIG as long as
it takes to make a profit, Berkowitz said. “If  Wall Street 
believes that the Treasury is going to bail out of AIG then they
will push that stock price down as close to zero as possible,
which would not be a win for the country, for business, for the
cycle, for the recovery of the nation.”  Financial-services companies’ reserve levels and the
improvement in tangible equity helped persuade Berkowitz to
invest in the firms, he said.  “Our thesis on financials, it’s pretty simple,” he said.
“We expect that over a cycle, systemically important financial
institutions, that are too-big-to-fail, that already have been
recapitalized, will have the ability to earn a 10 percent return
on equity.”  Firms that trade below book value, a measure of assets
minus liabilities, are even more attractive, he said. AIG’s
stock price was about  60 percent of book value  on Feb. 10 and
Bank of America’s was about  40 percent , Bloomberg data show.  Tax Assets  Financial firms, including AIG, may boost returns with
deferred tax assets that can limit future payments to the
government, Berkowitz said. Losses at the insurer helped it rack
up more than  $25 billion  in the tax assets by the end of 2010,
according to a company presentation.  At the end of November, the Fairholme Fund held 81.6
million shares of Bank of America, a stake valued at about $659
million based on last week’s closing price. The fund also held
84.4 million shares in AIG, which would have been valued at
$2.25 billion on Feb. 10. Berkowitz also has warrants to buy
21.6 million shares of the insurer at $45 each by January 2021.  The  Fairholme Allocation Fund (FAAFX)  held warrants to buy about
314,000 JPMorgan shares at $42.42 apiece and about 760,000
shares of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo at $34.01 each by
October 2018, according to the annual report. JPMorgan closed at
$37.61 on Feb. 10 and Wells Fargo ended last week at $30.26.  Wells Fargo agreed to buy competitor Wachovia Corp. in 2008
as New York-based JPMorgan acquired Washington Mutual Inc. and
Bear Stearns Cos. AIG has sold more than $50 billion in  assets ,
including non-U.S. life insurance operations and a consumer
lender, to help pay back a government bailout that swelled to as
much as $182.3 billion.  Berkowitz was named the U.S. domestic stock  fund manager  of
the decade in 2010 by Morningstar Inc., a Chicago-based research
firm. The Fairholme Fund has returned an annualized 9.6 percent
since its inception at the end of 1999 through Dec. 31, compared
with a gain of less than 1 percent a year for the  S&P 500 ,
according to Berkowitz’s report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Dominic Chu in New York at 
 dchu16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  