-- Bernanke Labor Pessimism Seen Misplaced as U.S. Expands in 2012
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-13T00:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/bernanke-labor-pessimism-seen-misplaced-as-u-s-growth-accelerates-in-2012.html
In his six years as Federal Reserve
Chairman,  Ben S. Bernanke  has sometimes proved too sanguine
about the U.S. economy, declaring the impact of bad subprime
mortgages on the financial markets “contained” in 2007 and
being too optimistic about growth last year. Now that employment
is accelerating, economists wonder if the central bank again
will prove to be mistaken, this time by being pessimistic about
the outlook.  An improving job market, stepped-up U.S. bank lending and
resurgent financial markets all could combine to boost demand.
The jobless rate fell to the  lowest level  in three years in
January, while consumer credit racked up its biggest two-month
gain in a decade at the end of 2011. The stock market had its
best January in 15 years, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
now up  6.8 percent  since the start of 2012.  “The turn in the economy right now is very positive,”
said  Allen Sinai , president of Decision Economics Inc. in New
York, who forecasts growth of 2.5 percent to 3 percent this year
and a year-end jobless rate of 7.7 percent, compared with 8.3
percent last month. “We’re going to have a better year than a
lot of people thought.”  Stock prices will continue to rise, as the strengthening
economy boosts confidence among companies, consumers and
investors that expansion is sustainable, said  James Paulsen , who
helps oversee about $333 billion as chief investment strategist
in Minneapolis for Wells Capital Management.  Paulsen, who forecasts economic growth of 3 percent to 3.25
percent in 2012, predicts the S&P 500 will climb to 1,500
sometime this year, compared with  1,342.64  at 4 p.m. in  New York 
on Feb. 10.  ‘Room to Run’  “We believe markets are still pricing in a more negative
economic backdrop than what we are predicting,”  Bob Doll , chief
equity strategist at BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest asset
manager, wrote in a Feb. 6 commentary. That suggests stocks
“have further room to run.”  Faster growth also would benefit President Barack Obama in
his bid to win a second four-year term in November. Former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, the most-likely Republican
presidential nominee, has attacked Obama for his handling of the
economy, charging that his policies have held back the recovery.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the second-largest U.S. chipmaker,
is among companies rebuilding inventories and taking on workers
ahead of an anticipated increase in orders.  “You see us already starting some level of hiring in the
manufacturing operations,”  Ron Slaymaker , vice president at the
Dallas-based company, said at a Feb. 7 conference. “When demand
returns, we’ll be able to start factories up pretty quickly.”  Investors More Confident  Corporate borrowers are selling bonds at the fastest pace
ever, as evidence mounts that the U.S. economy is gaining
strength and investors grow more confident that  Europe  is edging
toward a solution to its sovereign crisis.  Petroleo Brasileiro
SA (PETR4)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  led $137.8 billion of offerings this month
through Feb. 8, the best start to a month on record, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even so, many economists are waiting for more proof before
raising their forecasts. The U.S. will grow just 2.2 percent
this year, according to the median estimate of private
economists surveyed by Bloomberg this month. They project
unemployment will average 8.1 percent in the final quarter.  Bernanke and his fellow policy makers also are more guarded
than analysts such as Paulsen. The central bankers foresee
growth in 2012 of 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent, on a fourth-
quarter-over-fourth-quarter basis, and an average jobless rate
of 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent in the last three months of the
year, according to the  central tendency  of their January
forecasts.  ‘Sluggish’ Expansion  Bernanke called the economic expansion “sluggish” in
testimony last week before the Senate Budget Committee in
 Washington  and told lawmakers the decline in the unemployment
rate veils weaknesses in the labor market.  The Fed has pledged to keep short-term  interest rates 
“exceptionally low” at least through late 2014, provided
inflation remains subdued and unemployment stays high. It
reduced its target for the federal funds rate that banks charge
each other on overnight loans to a range of  zero to 0.25 percent 
in December 2008 and has held it there ever since.  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist for Deutsche Bank
Securities in New York, said policy makers will have to raise
rates sooner because the economy will expand faster and
joblessness will fall further than they project. The first
increase will come in the second half of 2013, after GDP grows 3
percent this year and unemployment drops to 7.8 percent by the
end of 2012, he predicted.  ‘Embarrassing Episode’  “The Fed has expressed insufficient confidence in the  U.S.
economy ,” said  Maury Harris , chief economist at UBS Securities
LLC in New York, who reckons policy makers will begin raising
rates by late 2013. “This could end up being an embarrassing
episode in terms of their credibility.”  Sinai, who also sees the central bank raising rates by the
end of next year, defended the Fed’s stance.  “It shows how seriously Bernanke takes the Fed’s mandate
to achieve full employment,” he said.  Sinai credited easy monetary policy for the strengthening
of the recovery he foresees, saying activity finally is
responding to the “happy dust” the central bank dumped on the
economy.  “If we’re going to err, we need to err on the side of
providing too much support to the economy than too little,”
added  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in
West Chester, Pennsylvania.  Series of Shocks  At the start of last year, the economy also looked as if it
was taking off, with payrolls rising by 827,000 in the first
four months of 2011. It then was hit by a series of shocks:
higher oil prices triggered by the Arab Spring uprisings, an
earthquake in Japan, continued turmoil in the euro region and
the debt ceiling standoff in the U.S.  GDP ended up rising 1.7 percent in 2011, below the 3.1
percent median forecast of private economists surveyed by
Bloomberg at the start of last year and 3 percent in 2010.  Fed policy makers also proved to be too optimistic. In
January 2011, they were looking for growth of 3.4 percent to 3.9
percent for the year. Bernanke in November blamed the shortfall
in part on “some elements of bad luck.”  The risk is the U.S. could suffer a similar fate this year.
The escalation of tensions with Iran over the Mideast nation’s
nuclear program probably has added a premium of about $5 to $10
a barrel to oil prices, according to Robert McNally, a former
White House official under President George W. Bush and
president of the Rapidan Group in Bethesda, Maryland.  Higher Oil Prices  That could go higher, McNally said in a report last month
for the Council on Foreign Relations in New York. Crude for
March delivery settled at $98.67 a barrel on Feb. 10 on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange .  Meanwhile, European policy makers struggle to contain the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis, and U.S. lawmakers remain at
odds over fiscal policy. The economy would suffer a
“significant blow” if Congress fails to extend a payroll-tax
cut and unemployment assistance that are scheduled to expire on
Feb. 29, Zandi said.  “I would be very enthusiastic about recent economic data
if we hadn’t had last year’s experience,” he said.  Still, the U.S. may be better positioned than it was in
2011 to cope with surprises.  “Economic shocks and headwinds are always a risk, but we
have over an additional two million private-payroll workers on
the job, and it is their spending that cushions the blow from
any unforeseen event,” said Chris Rupkey, chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York.  Lifting Confidence  Improving employment prospects are lifting confidence. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed in the week ending Feb.
5 to a  one-year high , according to the latest figures.  Households also are benefiting from increased credit.
Consumer borrowing rose  $19.3 billion  in December to $2.5
trillion, after a $20.4 billion advance the prior month,
according to the Fed, the biggest back-to-back gain since 2001.
While much of the boost came in the form of student loans,
credit-card debt and  car loans  also rose.  Applications to refinance mortgages climbed 9.4 percent in
the week ended Feb. 3 to the  highest  since November 2010,
according to an index compiled by the  Mortgage Bankers
Association .  “Consumers are loosening their belts as mortgage
refinancing is putting more money in their pockets” and “the
labor market is improving,” Sherry Cooper, chief economist at
BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, wrote in a Feb. 9 note.  Accelerating Vehicle Sales  Automakers sold new cars and trucks in January at the
fastest pace since the 2009 “cash for clunkers” program,
without having to resort to profit-sapping discounts. U.S.
light-vehicle sales accelerated to a 14.2 million seasonally
adjusted annualized rate from 13.6 million in December,
according to AutoData Corp. in Woodcliff, New Jersey.  “We’re looking at 2012 with some degree of optimism,”
 Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of Chrysler Group LLC
and Fiat SpA, said on a Feb. 1 conference call.  More consumers were favorably disposed to buying a vehicle
in early February than at any time during the past year,
according to a Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan survey
released Feb. 10, with more citing easy credit and low interest
rates as reasons than at any time since 2005.  The  surge  in the stock market also is playing a role, Sinai
said, boosting the asset side of household balance sheets and
encouraging consumers to take on more debt. That’s helping to
feed the cycle of increased spending and hiring, he added.  “If we have a little bit of luck and if policy makers
don’t misstep, it feels like the dynamics of the economy are
turning very positive,” Zandi said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  