-- BMW Profit Drive Ends in Court as Union Seeks Cap on Temps: Cars
-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s
-- 2012-02-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/bmw-profit-drive-ends-in-court-as-union-seeks-cap-on-temps-cars.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  is
taking its drive for record output to court after labor
representatives opposed hiring more temporary employees, in a
rare clash between the carmaker’s management and the shop floor.  The world’s largest maker of luxury cars employs about
1,100 workers without longer-term contracts at its Leipzig
factory in eastern  Germany , or almost 30 percent of the total.
Labor representatives refused to support a new round of
temporary contracts, saying the practice creates a two-tier
system of employees. A first court hearing on the issue is
scheduled for tomorrow.  “It’s clearly unusual for BMW to have such an argument in
public,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Bankhaus Metzler analyst in
Frankfurt. “BMW wants to protect its well-paid core staff, and
the last crisis showed the importance of flexibility.”  The confrontation underscores German companies’ push to
make their workforce more nimble, in a country where rigid labor
laws make hiring and firing protracted processes. Munich-based
BMW  aims  to sell more than 2 million vehicles by 2020 from a
record 1.67 million last year, as it seeks to maintain its lead
over domestic rivals  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi unit.  Jochen Mueller, a spokesman for BMW in Leipzig, said
temporary workers are paid the same base salaries as long-term
employees, and the mix gives the carmaker more flexibility.
Jochen Frey, another BMW spokesman, said permanent staff last
year got a bonus worth close to a month’s salary, which temps
did not get. He said that bonus varies with corporate profit.  Permission Denied  The Leipzig factory assembles the  1-Series  and X1 sport-
utility vehicle and produced 186,800 units in 2010. BMW gave
about 170 temporary workers in Leipzig permanent contracts in
2011 because of strong demand, and the company is spending 400
million euros ($529 million) to expand the facility.  BMW plans to hire another 350 people permanently at the
factory this year and welcomes applications from current temps,
Mueller said.  German companies with more than 20 workers require approval
from employee representatives when hiring. Should the court in
Leipzig side with the employees’ decision to refuse backing the
hiring, BMW will need to consider “alternatives,” Frey said,
without elaborating.  Employing temporary workers can help lower labor costs,
which stood at 43.76 euros per hour in 2010 in the automotive
industry, according to data from Germany’s VDA carmakers’
association. That’s 58 percent higher than in the U.S., and
almost six times higher than in neighboring  Poland . BMW had
11,000 subcontracted employees among its 100,389 workers as of
Sept. 30.  Around the Corner  “They tell us the next crisis is just around the corner,
so they need temps in order to be able to cut staff quickly and
cheaply,” Jens Koehler, who heads the works council at BMW’s
Leipzig plant, said. “We don’t agree with that.”  In the economic downturn after 2008, German companies
responded with shortened workweeks, which was credited with
avoiding major layoffs and helping kick-start production once
demand rebounded.  Daimler (DAI)  reduced hours of about 120,000 people,
almost its entire German workforce.  Airbus SAS said Feb. 13 that it will cap the use of
contract workers at 20 percent starting this year, and that 300
people from that pool will have the option of taking full-time
employment. German labor law stipulates that temporary
employment must be transient, while there is no definition for a
maximum time period. Some  BMW (BMW)  employees have been temps at the
carmaker for years, the union said.  Temporary workers are more flexible because they are
employed by an agency and can be removed when demand slackens.
The workers often don’t get additional compensation for night
shifts, Christmas and vacation pay or one-time bonuses,
according to the IG Metall metalworkers union, which represents
large parts of Germany’s manufacturing workers, including those
working at automakers.  ‘Had It’  “We’ve had it up to here with temps; we’ve been
deceived,” said IG Metall Chairman Berthold Huber. “What’s
happening is shameful and abusive, and we’ll no longer tolerate
it.”  BMW has historically maintained a cooperative relationship
with its workforce, stemming from the company’s rescue from near
collapse in 1959. At the time, union officials played a key role
in encouraging Herbert Quandt, whose descendants still control
the carmaker, to thwart a takeover from Daimler-Benz.  Workers have more clout in Germany than in other countries
because they are represented in the highest echelons of company
management. Every supervisory board of publicly traded companies
is evenly split between representatives for management and
employees.  That system, unique to Germany, gives works councils and
union members more sway over strategy, hiring and firing, as
well as pay of senior executives. Huber sits on supervisory
boards including  Volkswagen (VOW3) , Audi and  Siemens AG (SIE) , Germany’s
largest engineering company.  Falling Unemployment  Germany’s car industry has rebounded from the crisis years.
Daimler exceeded analysts’ estimates last week with its profit
target for 2012, propelled by record demand for Mercedes-Benz
brand cars. Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  has vowed to
retake the luxury-car lead from BMW after slipping last year to
third behind Audi. BMW reports earnings on March 13, a day after
Volkswagen.  The car industry accounts for about 15 percent of Germany’s
 gross domestic product . Germany’s VDMA machinery industry
association, which represents the country’s largest
manufacturing segment, estimates the ratio of subcontracted
workers on manufacturers’ payrolls stands at 6 percent, twice
the amount in 2005.  With  unemployment  at a two-decade low and employment
numbers hitting records, the number of subcontracted workers in
Germany swelled to about 930,000 last year,  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the
world’s largest staffing company, estimates.  Subdued Demand  German executives at companies including Siemens have
cautioned of subdued demand in 2012 as  Europe  continues to
grapple with the fallout from the sovereign debt crisis that is
weighing on consumer sentiment. Siemens predicted last month
that the region may enter a recession.  Plant and machinery orders in Europe’s largest economy
dropped 12 percent in November, the first annual decline in
almost two years, and slid 10 percent in December, VDMA said.
Companies including Siemens,  Nokia (NOK1V)  Siemens Networks, and
 Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG (HDD)  have announced thousands of job
cuts in Germany in recent weeks.  Each time a company cuts jobs, temporary workers are
typically among the first to go, said IG Metall Vice Chairman
Detlef Wetzel.  “When the crisis hits, the number of temps will
drastically be reduced,” he said. “Their assignments will
simply be canceled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Richard Weiss  in  Frankfurt  at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  