-- Bob Geldof’s 8 Miles Raises $200 Million for African Investments
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-02-13T12:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/bob-geldof-s-8-miles-raises-200-million-for-african-investments.html
8 Miles LLP , the private-equity firm
backed by Irish rock star Bob Geldof, has raised $200 million to
invest in  Africa  after revising down its initial target.  The fund has pledges to invest from the  World Bank , the
African Development Bank, CDC Group Plc, a U.K. state-owned
investor in  emerging markets , as well as institutional and
private investors, the London-based firm said in an e-mailed
statement today. The firm, which initially sought about $1
billion, is seeking a total of about $450 million, spokesman
Robin Hepburn said.  “Africa is now a continent of extraordinary business and
investment opportunity,” Bob Geldof, who organized the Live Aid
charity concerts and acts as 8 Miles’ non-executive chairman,
said in the statement. “Private equity is one way to support
the enterprise and dynamism of the people of the continent and
help provide the jobs and skills that are needed.”  8 Miles, which took its name from the shortest distance
between  Europe  from Africa, joins private equity firms including
Washington-based  Carlyle Group  and London-based Helios
Investments Partners LLP in raising funds to invest in Africa to
tap faster growth than in western markets. Africa, with 1
billion inhabitants and a growing middle-class, had average
annual economic growth of 6 percent over the past decade,
according to 8 Miles. The firm will focus on agribusiness,
consumer, health, telecommunications and financial services, it
said.  Carlyle, one of the world’s biggest private-equity fund
managers, is seeking about $500 million for its first fund
targeting Sub-Saharan Africa, two people with knowledge of the
plans said last March. The buyout firm opened offices in  South
Africa  and Nigeria. London-based Helios raised $900 million for
African deals last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Berlin at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  