-- Bob Marley’s Passions Extended Beyond Ganja, Women, Soccer: Film
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-02-13T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/bob-marley-s-passions-extended-beyond-ganja-women-soccer-movie-review.html
Bob Marley ’s wife Rita says she
became his “guardian angel” as his fame grew.  On tour, she would graciously request the women crowding
his dressing-room to leave when he’d had enough. She forgave him
his many lovers. His mission was more important than her
feelings, she says.  There is some sadness in her eyes that suggests suppressed
pain, softened by the years. Rita is among those interviewed for
“Marley,” a thoughtful portrait of the reggae king directed by
Kevin Macdonald and premiering at the  Berlin Film Festival .  Talking about Marley without using the word “Legend” is
hard. The album of that name has sold more than 10 million
copies and continues to sell 250,000 a year. Marley died in
1981, when he was 36 years old, of cancer -- long before the
advent of the Internet, yet he has more than 33 million
followers on Facebook and Twitter.  Anthems like “No Woman, No Cry” and “Get Up, Stand Up” are
known and loved across the world. In developing regions
especially, Marley has saint-like status because of his activist
message that the poor and downtrodden will have their day.  This film brings the man behind the legend a few steps
closer, into sharper focus. As well as Rita, interview partners
include Bob’s mother; two of his 11 or 12 children; the one
surviving original Wailer; a former Miss World who was one of
the lovers; and Island Records founder Chris Blackwell.  Jamaican Shack  We’re transported back to the desperate poverty of Marley’s
remote native village in St. Ann’s,  Jamaica , and the shack where
he grew up. The son of a British officer whom he barely knew,
Marley was a social outcast as a “half-caste.” He was also a shy
boy -- a hard image to reconcile with the electrifying stage
presence he later became.  His mother took him to Kingston in search of a better life
and they lived in Trench Town, a corrugated iron and cardboard
slum threaded with dusty alleys. After a short spell with her in
the U.S., Bob returned alone to Jamaica. He joined the Rastafari
religious movement and grew his trademark dreads. He played
soccer, smoked ganja and above all, practiced music.  The steely determination and sense of purpose and vision
are what come through in this film. Forget any stereotypes about
laid-back Rastas. Marley was passionate, a perfectionist,
strategic in his career and extremely competitive.  Competitive Dad  His daughter Cedella describes the running races he had
with his children. He would sprint ahead at full speed and then
turn around and laugh at them all trying to keep up -- not
exactly the cuddly, indulgent father.  We see Marley defiantly displaying gun wounds at a peace
gala in Jamaica after a failed attempt to kill him during a
political civil war.  In 1980, police fired tear gas at a concert for the newly
independent  Zimbabwe  to prevent crowds outside from stampeding
the stadium. Marley barely seemed to react. He just kept playing
and singing as those around him spluttered, wept and fled --
including his backing vocalists.  “Now we know who are the real revolutionaries,” he told his
singers the next day.  Footage of Marley in concert and in the studio, clips of
interviews, some rare recordings and private material from
family archives made public for the first time are interspersed
with colorful interview partners for a 2 1/2-hour film that
feels a lot shorter. Bunny Wailer, who first met Bob at school,
is a delight in his robes and shades with carrot pipe.  Driven Legend  “Marley” aims to be the definitive, official film on the
subject and, as such, is conventional in its approach. It
doesn’t give critics a voice, and in some places, seems to aim
to stoke the legend rather than take us behind it. Yet the
conversations with family and close friends yield nuggets that
offer a more complete, intimate picture of a driven man.  The last part of the film takes us to the snowbound German
holistic clinic where Marley spent his last months in 1981. A
melanoma that he thought had been removed from his toe had
metastasized and taken over his body. If he’d had regular
medical checkups after the toe operation, it might have been
caught earlier and he could still be alive, Blackwell says.  Rating: ***.  For more information, go to  http://www.berlinale.de/en/   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 