-- Boeing Says ‘Confident’ of Winning South Korean Fighter Jet Deal
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 2012-02-13T16:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/boeing-says-confident-of-winning-south-korean-fighter-jet-deal.html
Boeing Co. (BA) , maker of the F-18 and
F-15 fighter jets, said it’s “very confident” of winning a $7
billion South Korean order for combat planes as it boosts focus
on Asia amid shrinking military spending at home.  “If you look at the budget situation in  Europe  and the
U.S., we have to make some grounds somewhere,” Joe Song,
director, Asia Pacific International Business Development of
Boeing defense, said in an interview in Singapore yesterday.
“The  focus  is Asia and the Middle East right now.”  Boeing, based in Chicago, is pitching its F-15 Silent Eagle
for the South Korean contract for 60 fighters against planes
from  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and Eurofighter GmbH.  Asia  Pacific is
expected to increase spending on defense products by 4.2 percent
annually until 2016, according to  Frost & Sullivan .  Bids for the South Korean order are due in June, and a
winner may be selected by October. The country is also looking
to buy 36 attack helicopters this year, Song said.  “From the cursory look at the RFP, it looks like we can
meet all requirements,” he said, referring to the initial
request for proposal. “We have great partnerships in Korea, so
we are very confident that we can do this.”  The other jets in the contest include the F-35 by Lockheed,
the biggest U.S. military contractor, the Eurofighter Typhoon
and  Saab AB (SAABB) ’s Gripen.  Lockheed, based in Bethesda, Maryland, won an order from
 Japan  for 42 F-35 fighters in December. The jets may cost 1.6
trillion yen ($21 billion) to buy, operate and maintain over 20
years, according to the nation’s defense ministry.  Rafale Wins  India last month named Paris-based Dassault Aviation SA as
preferred bidder for a contract to supply 126 fighters. The
planemaker’s Rafale had been shortlisted with the Eurofighter
Typhoon after the earlier rejection of offers from Lockheed,
Boeing, Saab and Moscow-based United Aircraft Corp.  Companies are increasing their focus on Asia to offset
slowing demand in Europe and the U.S., the world’s biggest
military market. Western European defense spending fell about 5
percent last year and may decline further this year, according
to  Fitch Ratings .  In the U.S., Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  presented an
outline on Jan. 26 for $613 billion in spending for fiscal 2013.
The proposal is part of an effort to cut $487 billion from $5.62
trillion in defense spending that had been planned for 2012 to
2021. Automatic spending cuts could force an additional $500
billion in reductions over a decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  