-- Bond Buyers Endorse Bernanke Caution Unfazed by $100 Oil as Economy Grows
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-13T14:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/bond-buyers-endorse-bernanke-caution-unfazed-by-100-oil-as-economy-grows.html
The market for U.S. Treasuries is
embracing Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s view that
signs of improving growth mask threats to the nation’s economy,
keeping inflation in check.  Traders are betting that government debt yields will remain
subdued in the years ahead, even with oil prices stuck at around
$100 a barrel. The cost to exchange fixed- for floating-rate
payments in a decade has averaged 3.38 percent this year. The
so-called forward 10-year swap rate, which has fallen from last
year’s peak of 5.47 percent in February, is trading at the same
levels as early 2009.  While the U.S.  jobless rate  fell to a three-year low last
month and manufacturing picked up, investors have kept yields on
Treasuries near record lows as the Fed lowered forecasts for
economic growth and inflation.  Bill Gross , who manages the
world’s largest bond fund at  Newport Beach , California-based
Pacific Investment Management Co., has boosted his holdings of
 U.S. government debt  to the highest level since July 2010.  “The market is just not buying that the recent improvement
will be sustained,” said Ruslan Bikbov, a fixed-income
strategist in  New York  at Bank of America Corp. “Expectations
for lower growth ahead, a shortage of riskless assets and
upcoming U.S. fiscal tightening are combining with the fact the
Fed is on hold through late 2014 to push forward rates lower.”  Lower Forecasts  Economists are lowering their yield forecasts. The median
end of 2012 estimate for 10-year Treasury yields has fallen to
2.48 percent from 2.72 percent in November, according to a
survey of 74 economists and strategists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Bank of America sees them at 2.4 percent.  Ten-year Treasury yields were little changed at 1.99
percent at 9:07 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. A rise to levels forecast in the survey would
still leave yields below the average of 5.28 percent since 1990.  “There is still some benefit to holding long-term
Treasuries,” Gregory Whiteley, a  money manager  focusing on U.S.
government debt at Los Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP,
which oversees $25 billion, said in a Feb. 7 interview. The
firm’s  Core Fixed Income Fund (DBLFX)  has returned 12 percent over the
past year, beating 99 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Avoiding Bonds  A growing economy combined with record low  interest rates 
has many big investors staying away from bonds. Investors should
be 100 percent in equities because of depressed stock valuations
and the Fed’s pledge to keep rates low, Laurence D. Fink, chief
executive officer of New York-based BlackRock Inc., the world’s
largest money manager, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television in  Hong Kong  on Feb. 8.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  has gained 7 percent this
year while the  S&P GSCI Total Return Index (SPGSCITR)  of raw materials has
added 3.9 percent.  Warren Buffett , the billionaire chairman of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., said low interest rates and inflation should
dissuade investors from buying bonds and other holdings tied to
currencies. “They are among the most dangerous of assets,”
Buffett said in an adaptation of his annual letter to
shareholders that appeared Feb. 9 on Fortune magazine’s website.  Treasuries, except for 30-year bonds, have negative yields
after taking inflation into account. Ten-year notes yield about
1 percentage point less than the  consumer price index .  Growth, Employment  Gross domestic product is forecast to expand 2.2 percent
this year, according to the median estimate of more than 80
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. While that’s up from 1.8
percent in 2011, it’s below the average of 3.1 percent in 2004
through 2006, before the start of the biggest financial crisis
since the Great Depression.  And while the U.S.  unemployment rate  in January was 8.3
percent, the lowest since February 2009, the percentage of
unemployed who have remained without work for 27 weeks or more
rose to 42.9 percent from 42.5 percent in December, the Labor
Department said Feb. 3.  “It is very important to look not just at the unemployment
rate, which reflects only people who are actively seeking
work,” Bernanke said at a Feb. 7 hearing before the Senate
Budget Committee in  Washington . “There are also a lot of people
who are either out of the  labor force  because they don’t think
they can find work” or in part-time jobs.  ‘Structural Headwinds’  U.S. average hourly earnings rose 1.9 percent in January
from a year earlier, the smallest increase since April, and down
from 3.2 percent in 2008 and 3.7 percent in January 2009, the
Labor Department said Feb. 3.  Slow wage growth combined with still depressed real estate
values is making it difficult for Americans to boost their
spending, which would contribute to inflation. The government
will say this week that the CPI rose 2.8 percent in January from
a year earlier, the smallest increase since March, according to
the median estimate of 32 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  A deficit reduction law passed last year requires $1
trillion in discretionary spending cuts spread over 10 years.
The reductions would start in January 2013 if Congress and the
administration can’t agree on an alternative plan.  “There are many structural headwinds ahead in terms our
economic future,” Pimco’s Gross said in a Feb. 3 radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  Swap Rate Moves  Gross boosted U.S. government and related debt to 38
percent of assets in Pimco’s $250 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  in
January, from 30 percent in December, according to a report on
the company’s website Feb. 9. A year ago, Gross had a net bet
against Treasuries, and the fund gained 4.16 percent, beaten by
69 percent of similar funds.  The 10-year forward swap rate plunged to as low as 2.56
percent three months after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. went
bankrupt in September 2008. It reached 5.47 percent in February
before moving lower through most of the rest of 2011. It ended
last week at 3.47 percent amid concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis
would plunge the world economy back into recession.  Fed policy makers said last month they saw enough signs of
weakness in the economy to warrant keeping their  target rate  for
overnight loans between banks between zero and 0.25 percent
through 2014, more than a year later than planned.  Fed Wariness  Christopher Low, chief economist at FTN Financial in New
York and the only one of 70 analysts in a Bloomberg survey who
predicted the 10-year Treasury yield would fall to 2 percent by
the end of last year, says the Fed is correct in being wary
about the recovery.  “You can make the case that the hiring we are seeing today
is a reaction to faster-than-expected growth in the fourth
quarter, but it’s also probably not sustainable growth” as much
of it came from inventory gains, Low said during an interview
with  Kathleen Hays  and Vonnie Quinn on “The Hays Advantage” on
Bloomberg Radio Feb. 7.  Rather than adding to inflation, traders see  oil prices 
hovering at about $100 a barrel, almost 60 percent above the
average price of $64 for the past decade, as being a drag on the
economy. An extended $10 rise in oil cuts 0.5 percentage point
off U.S. growth over two years, according to Deutsche Bank AG.  A measure of traders’ inflation expectations that the Fed
uses to help guide monetary policy is at 2.6 percent, down from
as high as 3.23 percent last year. The five-year, five-year
 forward breakeven rate , which projects annualize price increases
over a five-year period beginning in 2017, is below its 2.68
percent average since January 2000.  “There doesn’t seem to be any inflation to worry about
now,” DoubleLine’s Whiteley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  