-- BP Must Face Investors’ Fraud Claims Spurred by Gulf Oil Spill
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-02-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/bp-loses-bid-to-dismiss-investor-fraud-claims-spurred-by-spill.html
BP Plc (BP)  must face fraud claims by
investors who said the company lied before and after the 2010
Gulf of Mexico  oil spill  about its accident response capability,
a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison in Houston yesterday
allowed holders of BP American  depositary receipts  to pursue
claims alleging violations of U.S. securities law. He dismissed
claims by investors who bought ordinary shares of London-based
BP, saying his court has no jurisdiction over them.  The judge rejected the investors’ claim that BP lied about
its commitment to safety, while finding the company may have
exaggerated its ability to respond to a major spill.  “Plaintiffs have sufficiently pleaded facts to demonstrate
that BP misrepresented the size of the spill it was prepared to
respond to in the Gulf and misrepresented the company’s general
spill response capabilities,” Ellison said in a 129-page
decision. “They have sufficiently pleaded actionable
misrepresentations related to BP’s ability to respond to an oil
spill in the  Gulf of Mexico .”  The  investors , led by  Ohio  and New York pension plans, said
BP publicly declared a commitment to safety while cutting
budgets and personnel and rejecting internal complaints. BP also
initially hid the true size of the oil-well blowout to limit the
impact on its stock price, the investors alleged.  ‘BP Exaggerated’  “Today’s decision is a victory for the plaintiffs and I am
grateful that we will be able to move forward with our claims
against BP,” New York State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli said
in an e-mail. “We believe that BP exaggerated its ability to
prevent a catastrophic spill as well as its ability to respond
to one should it occur”  Scott Dean , BP spokesman, declined to comment on the
ruling.  The company denied fraud or any lack of attention to
safety. Investors sought to “transform a matter involving
allegedly negligent processes into an action for securities
fraud,” the company said in court papers. “A commitment to
safety is not a guarantee that no future accidents will occur,”
it said.  Investor securities-fraud  suits  are among hundreds of
claims filed in U.S. courts after the explosion and sinking of
the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico in
April 2010. Eleven people were killed in the blast and hundreds
of miles of coastline were soiled in what became the largest
offshore spill in U.S. history.  Combined Suits  Injury, economic loss and environmental suits are combined
before a federal judge in  New Orleans . The investor suit, which
seeks unspecified billions of dollars in lost share value, is
combined with other shareholder actions before Ellison in
federal court in Houston.  Ellison dismissed claims against several executives,
including Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  and BP America
Inc.’s chairman and president,  Lamar McKay . Ellison allowed
claims against former BP Chief Executive Officer  Tony Hayward 
and Douglas Suttles, former chief operating officer for
exploration and production.  The investors said Hayward made multiple misrepresentations
about his and the company’s commitment to safety. “The court
has determined that nine of the nineteen statements attributable
to Hayward are actionable,” Ellison said.  The plaintiffs claimed Suttles, who headed BP’s spill
response team, understated to the public the amount of oil being
spilled. The investors “have alleged facts sufficient to
establish that Suttles intended to deceive investors, or was at
the very least reckless, in revealing a much lower spill
estimate than BP actually possessed at the time of Suttles’s
public statements,” Ellison said.  Prior Incidents  The company’s prior incidents or any budget-cutting actions
can’t be used against BP in a  securities fraud  case, Ellison
said yesterday.  “Simply citing prior examples of safety failures does not
render false or misleading generalized statements about BP’s
risk profile or the riskiness of its operations,” he wrote.  The judge said that plaintiffs “must allege more than that
BP merged offices, promoted employees, and transferred employees
between divisions to allege the falsity of BP’s statements
regarding balancing cost-cutting measures with its safety
program.”  The Ohio and New York pension plans are seeking to sue on
behalf of investors in BP ADRs from Jan. 16, 2007, to May 28,
2010. They also sought to recover losses over that period for
U.S. investors who bought  BP ordinary shares  on foreign markets.  Foreign Shares  The company asked the court to restrict any investor fraud
claims to owners of the ADRS, which trade on the New York Stock
Exchange. BP said U.S. securities laws don’t apply to holders of
foreign shares, such as the company’s common stock, which trades
in  London . Ellison agreed.  BP shares fell about 40 percent in the weeks after the
explosion, investors said in court papers in February 2011. The
 drop  eliminated billions of dollars in the company’s market
value, shareholders said.  Ellison has been overseeing three categories of BP investor
claims consolidated in his court -- derivative suits brought on
behalf of the company, shareholder securities-fraud suits
claiming diminished share value and claims by BP employees over
losses in their  retirement savings  funds allegedly caused by
mismanagement.  Pension Funds  The judge dismissed the derivative suits in September,
finding the claims should be filed in the U.K. because BP is
based in London. He hasn’t ruled on the retirement savings plan
suits.  In December 2010, Ellison appointed the New York and Ohio
pension funds as lead plaintiffs in the shareholder-fraud claim.
He also established a subclass of individual investors who
bought BP’s U.S. shares from March 2009 to April 20, 2010, the
date of the explosion.  Yesterday’s ruling dismissed those claims, while allowing
the plaintiffs to file an amended complaint. These plaintiffs
will file a renewed claim within 20 days, using material gained
since the original complaint was filed in 2011, said their
attorney, Richard Mithoff.  “Much of what we know now came as a result of recent
discovery,” Mithoff said. The new complaint will emphasize
safety allegations, he said.  The case is In re  BP Plc (BP/)  Securities Litigation, 4:10-
md-2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Texas 
(Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 