-- Brazil and China Negotiating Vale Giant Ships Restrictions
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-02-13T21:46:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/brazil-and-china-negotiating-solution-on-restrictions-on-large-vale-ships.html
Brazil  and China are negotiating
access to Chinese ports by large vessels operated by miner  Vale
SA (VALE5)  after the Asian nation tightened rules on giant carriers.  Brazilian Vice President Michel Temer discussed access for
Vale’s so-called Valemax vessels, the world’s biggest carriers
of dry-bulk commodities, with Chinese Vice Premier  Wang Qishan 
in a meeting in Brasilia today, said Marco Aurelio Garcia,
foreign policy adviser to Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff.  “It will be dealt with at a political level,” Garcia said
in an interview in the Brazilian capital today.  China, the world’s largest iron-ore consumer, on Jan. 31
tightened rules for ports that handle very large ore ships and
oil tankers to ensure safety standards, restricting Vale’s plans
to serve its main customer with lower-cost carriers. The
involvement of government officials from both countries
indicates the dispute is intensifying after Vale said in
December that the Brazilian government wasn’t involved in
helping the company secure access.  The standoff is part of tense relations between the two
largest  emerging markets . Intent on slowing a flood of cheap
goods from China, Brazil imposed  tariffs on a series of Chinese
goods last year and slapped a tax on car imports affecting
Chinese manufacturers.  Brazil wants more access to the world’s second-biggest
economy for companies such as aircraft manufacturer  Embraer SA (EMBR3) 
and  Marcopolo SA (POMO4) , Brazil’s biggest bus maker, Temer said in a
joint statement to the press after meeting Wang.  Vale’s Plans  China surpassed the U.S. as Brazil’s largest trading
partner in 2009, with total imports and exports growing 16
percent to $77.1 billion last year. Iron ore is Brazil’s main
export.  Rio de Janeiro-based Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, is spending at least $8.1 billion buying 19 very large
ore carriers and leasing another 16 in long-term contracts, as
it seeks lower freight costs from Brazil to China.  China is excluding the Valemax, able to carry about 400,000
metric tons of iron ore, because they lack port-entry permits,
Jose Carlos Martins, Vale’s head of ferrous and strategy, said
in December.  China  buys about 45 percent of the iron ore sold by
the Brazilian company.  “They’re not opposed to opening those ports, they want to
look at some security issues,” Clodaldo Hugueney, Brazil’s
ambassador to China, said today in an interview in Brasilia.  Rerouting Vessels  A Vale official in Rio de Janeiro, who declined to be named
citing corporate policy, said today the company didn’t have an
immediate comment.  The five Valemax ships in operation haven’t reached Chinese
ports since they began operating in May. The Berge Everest,
another large vessel used by Vale with capacity to carry 388,000
metric tons, arrived at the Chinese port of Dalian Dec. 28.  Vale this month established a so-called transshipment
vessel in the  Philippines ’s Subic Bay as a way of bypassing the
exclusion. The floating transfer station will unload ore from
the largest carriers and place the commodity on smaller vessels
for shipment to ports elsewhere in  Asia .  Vale  rose  2.6 percent to 43.73 reais in  Sao Paulo  today,
the most since Jan. 17. The stock gained 16 percent this year,
in line with the gains of the Brazilian benchmark  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  