-- Brown’s Bond Bookkeeping Plan Would Cut Billions From California Schools
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-02-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/brown-s-bond-bookkeeping-plan-would-cut-billions-from-california-schools.html
California (STOCA1)  students from
kindergarten to community college may have funding curtailed for
years to come under Governor  Jerry Brown ’s plan to cut education
spending if voters reject $7 billion in tax increases.  California’s constitution requires the state to devote a
 minimum percentage  of its budget to education. Brown’s plan
would, for the first time, count debt service on school bonds
toward meeting that requirement. The bookkeeping change,
taking account of more than $31 billion in debt, would reduce
the state’s obligation for classroom spending by $2.4 billion
next year alone.  The largest U.S. state by population, and the most
indebted, is confronting a $9.2 billion  deficit . Brown, a 73-
year-old Democrat, wants voters to boost sales and income taxes
that would raise about $6.9 billion annually until they expire
in four to five years. He built that amount into his spending
plan and inserted a provision that automatically triggers $4.8
billion in cuts to schools if voters reject the higher levies.  “It’s a way to save the state a couple billion dollars,”
said Bob Blattner, a school district lobbyist with Blattner &
Associates. “The functional effect is a two-plus billion-dollar
drop” in the required funding for education.  The formula was set in 1988, when voters approved a
constitutional amendment known as  Proposition 98  that earmarked
a minimum annual percentage of the general fund to be spent on
elementary schools, high schools and community colleges. That
now amounts to about 40 percent of the $86 billion general-fund
budget.  Income, Sales Taxes  Brown wants voters in November to raise income taxes on
earnings of $250,000 or above, peaking at 12.3 percent for those
making $1 million or more. Sales taxes, now 7.25 percent and the
highest in the nation, would rise to 7.75 percent.  If the proposal fails, that would trigger cuts equivalent
to the cost of three weeks of the school year. Half would come
from calculating debt service as part of the minimum funding
level; the rest, by delaying early repayment of $2.4 billion
owed to schools that was deferred in the past to help fix
previous deficits.  State voters and the legislature have approved $31.9
billion of bonds in the past decade to finance the construction
and modernization of schools and community colleges, according
to the Legislative Analyst’s Office, a nonpartisan agency that
evaluates fiscal issues. Debt service cost taxpayers $2.5
billion in the current fiscal year, which ends June 30.  Brown’s administration says the debt service is part of the
cost of schools.  ‘Associated With Education’  “These are the bonds that built the schools,” said H.D. Palmer, a spokesman for the Finance Department. “These are
dollars that are associated with education and it is part of the
overall expense for education, without question.”  The legislative analyst said calculating bond payments into
the school funding formula may cause swings in financing from
year to year, depending on how much debt is sold. If Brown’s
method had been used since 1988, the percent of debt service
that counted toward the minimum guarantee would have fluctuated
from as little as 0.5 percent to 5 percent, the analyst’s office
said in a Feb 6  report .  “What otherwise would have been relatively stable school
and  community-college  operations will be partly driven by bond-
related factors rather than an assessment of operational
needs,” Legislative Analyst Mac Taylor said in the report.  The change would also force advocates for such things as
smaller classes and hiring more teachers to compete with school
construction interests. Every dollar spent on debt service is a
dollar less available for the classroom.  “If you put them both into the same pot of money, it’s a
zero-sum game,” Blattner said. “It’s going to establish
competition, which I don’t think is in anybody’s best
interest.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  