-- Buffett-Rule Charity Flops When Put to Test: Philip Maymin
-- B y   P h i l i p   M a y m i n
-- 2012-02-13T19:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/buffett-charity-flops-when-put-to-test-philip-maymin-correct-.html
Warren Buffett ’s suggestion that the
rich should pay more in taxes was greeted in some quarters with
the response that he was free to do so at any time. This piqued
my curiosity to find out if anyone had done so.  It’s not such an outlandish suggestion.  Since 1843, the U.S. government has accepted donations. All
that anyone wishing to engage in such charity has to do is send
a check to a special Treasury Department  address  in Hyattsville,
 Maryland . For the past few years, you could even use an online
form to pay down the federal debt with your  credit card .  So how much money has been voluntarily given to the
government? To find out, I filed a Freedom of Information Act
request with the Treasury, and have received the results.
Although the government wouldn’t provide information about names
or even the number of donors, it does have a spreadsheet of how
much was donated in total on a monthly basis for the past five
years.  Just what conclusion can we draw about how the wealthy or
civic-minded view the federal government based on their
donations? There are two possible hypotheses, and this data can
help us determine which is closer to the truth.  It is possible that wealthy people view their taxes as too
low, and to offset that, they donate generously and frequently.
Let’s call this the Buffett hypothesis. The Obama
administration, channeling this idea, has proposed a budget that
includes the so-called Buffett rule, which would require
Americans who earn more than $1 million a year to pay tax at a
minimum rate of 30 percent.  Patriotic Millionaires  Some rich people seem to agree and are stumping for the
plan. For example, a group calling itself the Patriotic
Millionaires for Fiscal Strength, made up of about 200 people
each with annual incomes in excess of $1 million,  state : “We
should pay a higher  tax rate . We want to pay a higher tax
rate.”  Alternatively, some people may view the federal government
as too large and too inefficient to be worthy of donations.
Let’s call this the libertarian hypothesis.  So which more closely reflects how people behave? People
may say one thing, but based on the Treasury Department’s data
we can see what they actually do with their money.  The annual gift receipts of the U.S. government over the
past five years have ranged from a low of $698,708 in the fiscal
year ended Sept. 30, 2010, to a high of $3.74 million in fiscal
2008. July 2008 was the most generous month of the past five
years, when the government received gifts totaling $1.37
million. The total donated over the five years is almost $10
million.  Ten million dollars is more than zero, so the libertarian
hypothesis isn’t airtight. On the other hand, the Buffett
hypothesis looks unsupportable.  Let’s add some context. Ten million dollars represents
about a fiftieth of 1 percent of Buffett’s personal wealth,
which is in the ballpark of $47 billion. To put that into
perspective, $10 million is to Buffett what about $20 is for a
family with a net worth of about $100,000 -- more or less the
 median  for American households.  As for how much this generosity helps the government, the
answer is:  not very much . Ten million dollars would have paid
for about an hour of the war in  Iraq , or a little more than 10
minutes’ worth of  interest payments  on the federal debt.  In other words, the amount of money that wealthy people
have donated to the U.S. government over the past half-decade
has been a rounding error, both for the government receiving the
funds and for the pool of people who profess to want to give
their money.  It’s not as if all those millionaires supposedly clamoring
to pay more in taxes couldn’t spare it. Sales of new yachts
alone -- a discretionary item if ever there was one -- tally a
few hundred million dollars a month, on average. You would
think, given their concern for helping out the government, some
of this could be channeled to the Treasury.  In the end, the libertarian hypothesis has a lot more
credibility than the Buffett hypothesis: Almost nobody seems to
want to voluntarily give money to the U.S. government, not even
those who call for more forced contributions.  Unfortunately, there is no special address for sending
requests to get money back.  (Philip Maymin, who ran in 2006 as a Libertarian Party
candidate for Congress in  Connecticut , is an assistant professor
of finance and risk engineering at Polytechnic Institute of  New
York University . The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Philip Maymin at  philip@maymin.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  