-- Buy Philippine Builder Stocks on Rate Cut, Rizal Commercial Says
-- B y   I a n   C .   S a y s o n
-- 2012-02-13T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/buy-philippine-builder-stocks-on-rate-cut-rizal-commercial-says.html
The  Philippines ’s fourth-biggest
lender is buying shares of the nation’s real-estate developers
as the central bank may lower interest rates further to boost
economic growth.  “The current interest-rate environment is quite favorable
for the property sector,” Rico Gomez, who helps manage $1.53
billion at Manila-based  Rizal Commercial Banking Corp. (RCB) , said in
a phone interview yesterday. “As long as overall  market
sentiment  doesn’t deteriorate, we will see further gains.''   Gomez has reduced his holdings of Philippine energy and
consumer stocks to buy property shares, he said, declining to
identify specific companies.  The Philippine Property Index, comprising 15 of the  largest
developers , has rallied 17 percent this year as the Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas trimmed overnight rates and signaled
further monetary easing later in the year. It’s the best start
to a year since the gauge jumped 25 percent in the same period
in 2005. The benchmark Philippine Stock Exchange Index has
gained 9.8 percent this year.  The central bank reduced the rate to 4.25 percent from 4.5
percent on Jan. 19 after two increases in 2011. The authority
still has monetary “policy space” for further easing as the
inflation outlook remains favorable, Governor Amando Tetangco
said last week. Yields on Philippine 10-year bonds reached a
record low 5.08 percent on Feb. 9 on expectations the bank will
trim rates when it meets on March 1.  Inflation Target  “If the central bank cuts rates further, property stocks
can replicate the return in 2009,” Gomez said.  The property-stock index surged 73 percent in 2009, the
sharpest annual gain based on data going back to 1995, as the
benchmark overnight interest  rate  was lowered to 4 percent from
5.5 percent at the end of 2008.  Inflation (PHC2II)  will be within the government’s target of 3
percent to 5 percent in 2012, the National Economic and
Development Authority said Feb. 10. Inflation eased to a 13-
month low of 3.9 percent in January.  The gap between inflation and interest rates may encourage
investors to put money into real estate, according to Gomez.  “With the low real  interest rate , there are investors who
will invest in real assets as they seek ways of protecting their
money,” he said.  Investors should favor developers that hold a
“significant” land bank over those with sizeable portfolios of
condominiums because of the possibility of an “oversupply” in
residential towers, Gomez said.  Property prices increased in parts of Metro Manila last
year even as borrowing costs rose. Land values in Makati and
Ortigas, two major commercial and business districts in the
capital, rose at least 2.8 percent in the third quarter from a
year ago, Philippine Daily Inquirer reported on Feb. 9, citing
central-bank data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in  Manila  at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  