-- Carlyle IPO Exposes Wall Street Justice Sham: William D. Cohan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-02-13T00:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/carlyle-ipo-exposes-wall-street-justice-sham-william-d-cohan.html
So, let’s get this straight. It’s
perfectly fine for investors and financial-firm employees who
have a dispute with  Wall Street  to be forced into an arbitration
process administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, Wall Street’s self-regulatory organization.  Yet, when the  Carlyle Group , a private-equity firm seeking
to sell its shares to the public, tried to require its new
investors to use that same arbitration process to resolve any
potential disputes, the powers that be called foul. The
Securities and Exchange Commission even threatened to block the
initial public offering unless an arbitration requirement was
removed from its registration documents.  So there is the question: How can a forced-arbitration
process be acceptable for the millions of people who do business
with or work on Wall Street and then be deemed unacceptable for
people who choose to buy stock in Carlyle?  The answer, of course, is that the Wall Street arbitration
process is not the least bit fair -- for anyone, including
financial workers and Carlyle’s potential investors. What the
Carlyle incident shows definitively is that financial firms’
kangaroo-court system -- Finra gets almost $1 billion a year
from Wall Street -- must be ended, allowing those with disputes
to use the judicial system like everyone else.  A Fast One  Here’s what happened with Carlyle: In its original S-1
registration statement, the Washington-based private-equity
behemoth included a provision that would have required all of
its new shareholders to resolve disputes with Carlyle in
arbitration, rather than through the court system. Carlyle was
probably hoping to pull a fast one, since the idea of forcing
shareholders into arbitration had been rejected as long ago as
1990, when a Pennsylvania savings and loan tried to make that
concept part of its IPO.  It was the SEC -- which has as one of its chief
responsibilities the obligation to watch out for investors --
that rejected that 1990 attempt, and no issuer had tried to do
it again until Carlyle came along. “SEC staff found that the
provision would deprive shareholders of access to a judicial
forum, restricting plaintiffs’ ability to recover for serious
violations of the law,” three Democratic U.S. senators wrote to
 Mary Schapiro , the SEC chairman, in a Feb. 3 letter urging her
to fight the provision in the Carlyle filing.  The three Senators --  Al Franken  of  Minnesota ,  Richard Blumenthal  of  Connecticut  and  Robert Menendez  of  New Jersey  --
 argued further  that “requiring shareholders to forgo litigation
and instead settle disputes in individual, confidential
arbitration -- as proposed by Carlyle Group” would “deprive
investors of important, congressionally-established rights.”
Faced with the ire of the three senators, as well as pressure
from institutional investors and  advocacy groups , the SEC told
Carlyle that its S-1 would not be approved as long as the forced
arbitration provision remained.  Carlyle quickly caved in. “After consultations with the
SEC, Carlyle investors and other interested parties, we have
decided to withdraw the proposed arbitration provision,”  Chris Ullman , a Carlyle spokesman, said in a statement. “We first
offered the provision because we believed that arbitrating
claims would be more efficient, cost effective and beneficial to
our unitholders.”  Individual-rights advocates, good-government types and the
class-action bar all hailed the coalition of investors,
regulators and lawmakers that forced Carlyle’s hand. “With the
investor community, lawmakers, and former SEC officials speaking
out against the use of forced arbitration in Carlyle’s proposed
IPO, it was evident that this was an ill-conceived move from the
start,” Gary M. Paul, the president of the  American Association 
for Justice -- a trial-lawyers’ group -- told the New York
Times. “Today’s developments should send a strong signal to
other companies that forced arbitration clauses will not be
accepted by investors or the S.E.C.”  A Next Step  That’s fine. But where is this same sense of outrage and
injustice for the millions of people (including myself, once)
forced into the Finra-administered arbitration process? Why
haven’t Franken, Blumenthal and Menendez gone to bat for them?
Why hasn’t Mary Schapiro taken the obvious next step and looked
into banning forced arbitration across the financial world?
(Note: Before before becoming the SEC chairman, Schapiro was the
top executive of Finra, which gave her $9 million as a parting
gift.)  If forced arbitration is no good for potential investors in
Carlyle’s IPO, it’s no good for the rest of us who have our
savings or careers tied in with Wall Street. The right to have
disputes adjudicated in a court of law is one of our nation’s
foundations. So why do we allow it to be taken away by a Wall
Street cartel eager to control the levers of justice?  (William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. Read his previous column
on Wall Street arbitration  online . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 