-- Carlsberg Looking for Acquisitions to Expand in Asia as Europe Stagnates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-14T09:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/carlsberg-looks-for-acquisitions-in-asia-as-europe-stagnates-1-.html
Carlsberg A/S (CARLB) , the world’s fourth-
biggest brewer, is seeking acquisition opportunities in Asia,
including  China , amid slowing growth in  Europe .  “We look very actively across Asia,” Chief Executive
Officer Joergen Buhl Rasmussen said in an interview in Beijing
yesterday. In Europe, “we are assuming a cautious environment,
very little growth, probably slight decline,” he said. Beer is
“not completely recession proof.”  The beermaker wants to boost investment in China both
organically and through acquisitions, Rasmussen said, without
disclosing possible targets. The Copenhagen-based company last
year increased ownership of its Indian unit, and expanded a
partnership with  Chongqing Brewery Co. (600132)  in western China.  Brewers are looking to emerging economies to drive sales
growth as markets in western Europe and the U.S. stagnate,
restrained by already-high levels of alcohol consumption,
growing competition and tough economic conditions.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , Tsingtao Brewery Co. and China
Resources Snow Brewery Co., a joint venture with  SABMiller Plc (SAB) ,
may bid for assets of China’s  Kingway (124)  Brewery Holdings, the Wall
Street Journal said last week, citing people familiar with the
matter. Rasmussen declined to comment on the report.  Possible Sale  Kingway rose 10 percent to HK$2.94, the highest level since
August 2007 in  Hong Kong . It has  gained  35 percent this year,
beating the 13 percent advance of the benchmark Hang Seng Index.  The Hong Kong-based company said today it has started talks
with “independent third parties” for the possible sale of its
business and assets. The company said on Jan. 20 that it would
invite third parties to submit proposals for some of its brewery
business and assets.  “People are thinking Carlsberg may come in and may want to
pay a premium for it,” Jason Yuan, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian
in  Shanghai  who has a “hold” rating on rival Tsingtao, said by
phone today. “They’ve been wanting to sell.”  Tsingtao dropped 0.3 percent to HK$40.40 and  China
Resources Enterprise (291)  Ltd. rose 0.2 percent to HK$27.85 in Hong
Kong trading.  China’s beer market will grow 6 percent to 7 percent
annually over the next two to three years, said Rasmussen, who’s
in Beijing to attend the European Union-China summit starting
today. Retail beer sales in China, the world’s most populous
nation, may have risen to 360 billion yuan ($57 billion) in
2011, according to researcher Euromonitor International.  China Competitors  China Resources Enterprise, the maker of Snow beer with
SABMiller, has a 22 percent share of China’s beer market;
Tsingtao, part-owned by Asahi Group Holdings Ltd., has 14
percent; and Anheuser-Busch InBev has 12 percent, according to
London-based Euromonitor.  Carlsberg, the largest shareholder in Chongqing Brewery
with about a 30 percent stake, sells Kronenbourg 1664 and Wusu
among other beers in China. It has 1.5 percent of the country’s
market, according to Euromonitor.  Carlsberg (CARLB)  reduced its annual forecast in August after bad
weather and sluggish sales in  Russia , where it owns the biggest
brewer, along with headwinds from high prices of commodities
including malting barley, weighed on profitability. It got
almost half its operating profit from eastern Europe in its last
fiscal year.  The volume of beer sold in eastern Europe slid 9 percent in
the three months ended Sept. 30, the brewer said in November,
compared with an 11 percent increase in  Asia .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net ;
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  