-- Carry Trade Rallies Like ’09 as Volatility Ebbs While Headlines Blare Iran
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-02-13T14:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/carry-trade-rallies-like-09-as-volatility-ebbs-while-headlines-blare-iran.html
In the $4 trillion-a-day  currency
market , traders calmed by a flood of central bank money are
leaving safety for riskier bets against a background of  Greece ’s
potential default and threats of nuclear weapons in  Iran .  Borrowing in dollars or yen to buy high-yielding Brazilian
reais and Mexican pesos has  returned  5.5 percent this year, the
best start on record, and reversing last year’s 15 percent loss,
the UBS AG V24 Carry Index shows. Market volatility dropped last
week to the lowest since August 2008, as measured by a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. index.  Increasing trades that depend on stability underscores
growing confidence that the global economy and financial system
will withstand shocks as central bankers blanket the world with
cash. It’s also proving a challenge for  emerging markets  such as
Brazil, where policy makers renewed purchases of dollars to keep
the real from strengthening too fast and damaging growth.  “There’s less nervousness in the market in general,” Jose Wynne, the head of North America foreign-exchange research at
the investment banking unit of Barclays Plc, said in a Feb. 7
telephone interview. “Now that the central banks are pumping on
one side of the system, you have people jumping on carry trades
everywhere.”  The currencies of New Zealand,  Mexico , Brazil, Indonesia
and South Africa are poised to rally this year against the
greenback, euro, pound and yen, Wynne said. All those countries
have benchmark interest rates between 2.5 percent and 10.5
percent, higher than rates of zero to 1 percent in the U.S.,
 Europe ,  Japan  and the U.K.  Similar to 2009  The dollar weakened 0.3 percent last week to $1.3197 per
euro, and strengthened 1.3 percent against Japan’s currency to
77.61 yen.  Current market conditions remind traders of 2009, another
period when demand for riskier assets soared as governments
around the world added stimulus and central banks cut rates in
an effort to prop up an economy reeling from the worst financial
crisis since World War II.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  rose 23 percent then and
the  S&P GSCI Total Return Index (SPGSCITR)  of raw materials added 13
percent. The UBS V24 Carry Index rose 13.9 percent, its best
performance since 2005, before falling 2.5 percent in 2010 and
15 percent in 2011.  ‘Largely Unanticipated’  Brazil ’s real rallied 33 percent in 2009 for its best
performance against the dollar, followed by the South African
rand’s 29 percent gain.  “During 2009, you had a pickup in risk appetite and risky
assets rallied, and it also came about unexpectedly,”  Michael Woolfolk , senior currency strategist in  New York  at Bank of New
York Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custodial bank, said in a
Feb. 3 telephone interview. “This rally we saw in January was
also largely unanticipated.”  The UBS index jumped 4.7 percent in January to 449.56, and
climbed to as high as 456.14 on Feb. 3 before easing to 452.89
last week.  Mexico’s peso has appreciated 9.7 percent this year against
the dollar, leading gains among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The real has posted an 8.4 percent advance and  New
Zealand ’s dollar has rallied 7.5 percent.  Higher-yielding currencies have strengthened even as
tensions rise in the Middle East and the sovereign-debt crisis
in Europe continues.  Iran, Europe  Iranian officials have warned they may shut the Strait of
Hormuz, which allows passage of a fifth of the world’s oil, in
response to sanctions imposed by the European Union and the U.S.
to keep the nation from developing nuclear weapons.  European leaders have struggled to reach agreements on the
next bailout package for Greece and on rules for a tighter
fiscal union for all EU member nations.  The crisis has led Greece, Portugal, Ireland,  Italy  and
 France  to implement austerity measures in an effort to cut
budget deficits, steps that will subtract about 1.3 percentage
points from growth in the region this year, JPMorgan Chase
economists estimate.  Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos won parliamentary
approval for measures to reduce spending needed to secure aid,
while rioters protesting the measures battled police and set
fire to buildings in downtown Athens. A total of 199 lawmakers
voted in favor and 74 against, Parliament Speaker Filippos Petsalnikos said in remarks carried live on state-run Vouli TV.  Investors are putting their faith in policy makers who are
driving down  interest rates  and flooding the world with cash to
prop up their economies. The balance sheets of the world’s six
biggest central banks have more than doubled since 2006 to $13.2
trillion, according to Chicago-based Bianco Research LLC.  ‘Nothing More Powerful’  “If you think of asset markets, there’s nothing more
powerful than a central bank that’s not raising rates even as
economic data is improving,” Steven Englander, head of Group of
10 currency strategy at Citigroup in New York, said in a Feb. 8
telephone interview. “Stronger growth, combined with the
liquidity provisions that most of the major central banks are
committed to, is making investors much more comfortable with
risk.”  Policy makers in nations that have seen their currencies
strengthen are starting to take action, threatening returns from
the carry trade.  Brazil Intervention  Brazil resumed intervention as the real reached a three-
month high of 1.7126 per dollar last week. The nation’s central
bank bought dollars in the foreign-exchange market twice this
month, its first purchases since July, to slow the rally that
policy makers say may weigh on exports and undermine the
economy’s rebound.  Australia ’s dollar weakened from a six-month high last week
as the  Reserve Bank  lowered its forecast for growth this year.
The central bank said it sees the economy expanding 3.5 percent
in 2012, down from a Nov. 4 estimate of 4 percent.  Investors have piled into the riskier assets as volatility
in the foreign-exchange market subsided, cutting the risk that
currency moves will erase profits in the carry trade.  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of equities has added 7.6 percent this
year as the  VIX (VIX)  -- a measure of equity volatility known as the
fear index -- fell to 17.1 on Feb. 3, the lowest since July,
according to the Chicago Board Options Exchange. In commodities,
the  S&P GSCI Total Return Index (SPGSCITR)  has climbed 4.6 percent.  Implied volatility of three-month options on currencies
dropped to 9.94 percent Feb. 10, the lowest since August 2008,
according to the JPMorgan Global FX Volatility  Index (JPMVXYGL) . The
measure has fallen below the average of 11.93 for 2011.  “The abundant liquidity that has been injected into all
these markets tends to smooth out some of the volatility,”
Robert Sinche, global head of currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Scotland Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a Feb. 8
telephone interview. “There are signs that global economies are
stabilizing and there’s less volatility in expectations about
growth in markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  