-- Cathay Pacific Says Cargo Slowdown May Stretch Into Second Half
-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-02-13T16:01:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/cathay-pacific-says-cargo-slowdown-may-stretch-into-second-half.html
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , the
largest international air-cargo carrier, said a freight slowdown
may continue into the second half after it reported a 10th
consecutive decline in monthly volumes.  The airline doesn’t see “much sign of a pickup” in the
next few months, Chief Executive Officer John Slosar told
reporters yesterday in  Singapore , where he was attending a
conference. “I would hope in the second half of this year
things start to look better, but that will very much depend on
the economy.”  The Hong Kong-based airline, which gets about 30 percent of
sales from cargo, has pared freight capacity to  North America 
and  Europe  as job concerns and waning consumer confidence deter
shoppers from buying Asian-made goods. Carriers are also
contending with a possible slowdown on long-haul travel demand
and a 12 percent rise in  fuel costs  in the past year.  “I think there will be pressure, particularly for long-
haul operations,” Singapore Airlines Ltd. CEO Goh Choon Phong
said at the conference, which coincides with this week’s airshow.
Travel demand in  Asia  has continued growing so far, which has
shielded the airline, he said.  Cathay Pacific fell 1.3 percent to HK$15.52 in  Hong Kong 
trading yesterday. The airline has dropped 22 percent in the
past year, compared with an 8.5 percent decline for the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index . Singapore Airlines has fallen 23
percent in Singapore in 12 months.  Profit Decline  Globally, airlines’ profits will probably drop to $3.5
billion this year from an expected $6.9 million in 2011,
according to the  International Air Transport Association . That
represents a profit margin of 0.6 percent.  The industry could slump to losses of more than $8 billion,
if the European debt crisis sparks a recession, IATA said in
December. European governments have stepped up efforts to tackle
deficits, with Greek lawmakers passing an austerity plan paving
the way for a financial bailout.  The European crisis has already hit airlines, causing
Spanish carrier Spanair SA and Hungary’s Malev Zrt. to halt
operations. Qatar Airways CEO Akbar  Al Baker  said it may spark a
wider slump that will hit global airline traffic.  “There will be a strong recession,” he said. “We will be
affected by at least 5 percentage points in loss of passenger
numbers,” he said.  Apple IPad 3  Cargo demand may receive a boost later in the year with the
introduction of new electronics devices, including Apple Inc.’s
planned iPad 3. The products help airlines because manufacturers
ship chips and other parts between Asian factories before
sending the finished goods to consumers spread around the world.  “With new products coming to the market, hopefully that
will spur some shipments,” said Singapore Air’s Goh. The
carrier hopes to see a cargo “upswing” from the middle of the
year, he said.  Cathay Pacific’s cargo traffic, or volume multiplied by
distance, plunged 18 percent in January from a year ago as the
earlier Lunar New Year added to the effect of a demand slump.
 China ’s New Year holiday began on Jan. 23 this year, compared
with Feb. 2 last year. Factories in the country generally close
for at least a week around this time.  --Neil Denslow, David Risser  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  