-- McDonald’s to Phase Out Pig Crates 11 Years After Chipotle
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-02-13T21:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/mcdonald-s-to-phase-out-pig-cruel-pens-11-years-after-chipotle.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, will require its pork suppliers to get
rid of gestation pens that animal-rights groups have long deemed
cruel to pigs.  “There are alternatives that we think are better for the
welfare of sows,” Dan Gorsky, McDonald’s senior vice president
of North America supply-chain management, said in a statement
today, released with the  Humane Society  of the United States.  The company, which uses pork in sausage McMuffins,
breakfast platters and McRib sandwiches, will require its
suppliers to submit plans by May to phase out the metal cages.  McDonald’s is “one of the largest purchasers of pork --
bacon and sausage, in particular,” David Warner, a spokesman
for the National Pork Producers Council, said in an e-mail. The
 Oak Brook , Illinois-based fast-food chain buys about 1 percent
of the U.S. pork supply, according to Lisa McComb, a McDonald’s
spokeswoman.  The move comes 11 years after  Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) 
began requiring its pork suppliers to raise pigs outside or in
large cages and use antibiotic-free and vegetarian food.
McDonald’s spun off Chipotle in 2006.  Gestation cages are typically about 2 feet by 7 feet, too
small for a full-sized sow to turn around.  Pigs kept in these pens are more susceptible to disease and
illnesses such as urinary tract infections, said Paul Shapiro, a
spokesman for the Washington-based Humane Society. They also
suffer psychologically because pigs are “very social,
intelligent animals,” he said.  Cargill, Smithfield  Cargill Inc., the commodity trader that’s the largest
closely held U.S. company, and Smithfield, Virginia-based
 Smithfield Foods Inc. (SFD)  are leading the way in getting rid of the
animal enclosures, McDonald’s said in the statement. Cargill is
based in Minneapolis.  “It’s just wrong to immobilize animals for their whole
lives in crates barely larger than their bodies,” Wayne Pacelle, president of the Humane Society, said in the statement.  McDonald’s, which has about 33,500 locations worldwide,
 rose  0.2 percent to $99.65 at the close in  New York . The shares
gained 31 percent last year.  “McDonald’s isn’t going to say this, but we’re throwing
away a lot of good things about gestation stalls,”  Steve Meyer ,
the president of livestock and grain marketing consulting firm
Paragon Economics in Adel,  Iowa , said in an interview. The
separate pens keep hogs from fighting with each other, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  