-- Chaoda Chairman Kwok Denies Discussing Share Placement With U.S. Investors
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-02-14T02:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/chaoda-chairman-kwok-denies-discussing-share-placement-with-u-s-investors.html
Chaoda Modern Agriculture Holdings
Ltd. (682)  Chairman Kwok Ho, a subject in a Hong Kong insider-trading
probe, denied discussing an imminent share offering on
conference calls with U.S.-based investors in 2009.  “Certainly, certainly not,” Kwok told Hong Kong’s  Market
Misconduct Tribunal  yesterday in response to a question about
whether he said on the calls that the Chinese vegetable supplier
would “soon” do a placement. He also denied that he wanted to
assess investor support for a share sale on the calls.  The tribunal is investigating whether material, non-public
information was improperly disclosed on phone calls involving
Kwok, Chaoda’s chief financial officer Andy Chan and U.S.
institutional investors in 2009. George Stairs, then a portfolio
manager at Fidelity Management & Research Co., took part in one
of those calls and sold some of his Chaoda holdings ahead of the
sale, according to  Hong Kong ’s government.  Stairs believed the share placement information he was
given by Chaoda’s chairman and chief financial officer was
public, according to a letter from Fidelity’s lawyers presented
in evidence to the tribunal.  Stairs and Chan have denied any wrongdoing.  The tribunal was shown e-mails last week from then Merrill
Lynch (Asia Pacific) Ltd. banker Rodney Tsang, who didn’t
participate in the calls, to colleagues saying the estimated
size and price of the share offering had been disclosed in the
calls. Kwok, who is continuing his testimony today, denied
yesterday that he discussed the proposed placement with Tsang in
between the investor calls.  Profitable Sale  Stairs made a profit of HK$1.98 million ($255,313) for his
 funds  by selling Chaoda shares ahead of the announcement and
later buying more, at a lower price, in the share offering
according to a government  notice .  Chaoda abandoned a planned share placement in April 2009
and on the June conference call, Chaoda’s management showed an
“apparent determination” to go through with their plans,
according to a letter from Fidelity’s lawyers.  Kwok’s lawyer Warren Chan said yesterday that only one of
six fund management firms, Janus Capital Management, said its
employees were asked about their interest in taking part in a
placement. Employees at Alliance Bernstein LP and Wellington
Management Company LLP told regulators that management didn’t
give details about a deal, Chan said citing transcripts.  2000 IPO  Founded in 1994 by Kwok, Chaoda first sold shares to the
public in Hong Kong in 2000. Kwok, 56, is a member of the
 Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference ,  China ’s top
political advisory body, and has a 19.6 percent  stake  in the
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The civil tribunal inquiring into the allegations has the
power to disgorge profits made or losses avoided. It can also
ban individuals from dealing in any securities, and from serving
as a director or manager of a corporation.  Chaoda fell 27 percent on Sept. 26, when the misconduct
proceedings were first reported and its shares were suspended.
Next Magazine also alleged in a May 26 report that the company
exaggerated its farmland holdings, which the company denied. Its
shares fell 81 percent last year.  Standard & Poor’s  last week downgraded the company two
levels to CC, its third-lowest non-investment grade ranking,
before withdrawing its rating, citing lack of access to Chaoda’s
management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  