-- Chesapeake Eyes $12 Billion in Asset Sales Amid Cash Squeeze
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-02-13T21:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/chesapeake-energy-is-targeting-up-to-12-billion-in-asset-sales-this-year.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-
biggest U.S. natural-gas producer, is seeking as much as $12
billion from assets sales and joint ventures to cope with a cash
crunch amid rising debt and tumbling gas prices.  The company expects to get $10 billion to $12 billion from
transactions including the potential sale of all its oil and gas
fields in the Permian Basin of Texas and  New Mexico , Chesapeake
said in a statement today. The  Oklahoma  City-based company
expects to receive about $2 billion in the next 60 days from two
separate transactions involving advance sales of output in Texas
and Oklahoma.  The deals will help Chesapeake reduce a  net debt load  that
is twice the size of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s, a company with a
market value 27 times larger. Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer  Aubrey McClendon  is facing a $3.5 billion gap this year
between  cash flow  and drilling costs, according to  Raymond James 
& Associates Inc. McClendon, who has been seeking an investment-
grade rating since at least 2009, has vowed to cut long-term
debt 25 percent by year end.  “This is exactly what Chesapeake had to do given the
pretty big cash flow-to-spending gap they are facing,” Kevin
Cabla, an analyst at Raymond James in Houston, said today in a
telephone interview. Selling more shares to bridge the financing
gap “would have crushed the stock even more than it has been.”  28 Percent Decline  Chesapeake  rose  2.4 percent to $22.66 at the close in New
York. Before today, the stock had lost 28 percent of its value
in the past year.  Chesapeake and rival explorers such as  ConocoPhillips (COP)  have
been curtailing gas production after an expanding glut of North
American supplies drove prices to the lowest in a decade last
month. Chesapeake is sensitive to falling gas prices, with every
25-cent decline reducing the company’s cash flow by 5.4 percent,
Brian Gibbons, a credit analyst at CreditSights, said in a Feb.
7 note to clients.  Chesapeake’s capital spending has exceeded cash from
operations in every quarter since October 2003, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. During the third quarter of 2011, as
U.S. gas futures were tumbling 16 percent, Chesapeake swelled
its net debt by 18 percent to $11.678 billion.  Gas Price Pressure  “This move is clearly in response to pressures exerted by
weak natural-gas prices, its high leverage and high spending
plans,”  Scott Hanold , a Minneapolis-based analyst for  RBC
Capital Markets , wrote today in a note to clients. Hanold
estimates a $4 billion funding gap for 2012.  Gas dipped to a 10-year low of $2.231 per million British
thermal units on Jan. 23. Gas for March delivery fell 1.9
percent to settle at $2.431 per million British thermal units
in New York, a 38 percent drop in a year.  The company said its 2012 financial plan will “fully
fund” its planned spending for the year and provide additional
liquidity for next year.  In the next two months, Chesapeake will receive an up-front
payment for future production in the  Texas  Granite Wash
formation. Chesapeake didn’t say who the buyer would be.  The company also plans to sell stakes in a new subsidiary
that will hold assets in the Cleveland and Tonkawa deposits in
Oklahoma. The transaction would be “similar” to an agreement
announced in November when private investors bought shares in a
Chesapeake subsidiary that holds Utica Shale acreage.  Hottest Regions  Later in the year, Chesapeake may raise as much as $8
billion from transactions in the Mississippi Lime and Permian
Basin, where it’s seeking joint-venture partners, the company
said. Chesapeake holds the rights to drill on 1.8 million net
acres in the Mississippi Lime, which spans northern Oklahoma and
southern  Kansas .  For the Permian Basin, where Chesapeake holds 1.5 million
net acres, the company said it may consider selling all of the
assets “if it receives a compelling offer.”  Chesapeake ought to fetch top dollar for its Permian assets
because they are about 80 percent oil at a time when crude is
averaging $100 a barrel, Cabla said.  “With  oil prices  at these levels, this is probably the
best time to be getting out of the Permian,” Cabla said. “The
Permian is one of the hottest regions right now” for
acquisitions.  Previous Permian Exit  In September 2002, McClendon said the company would exit
the Permian, drilling instead in lower-cost fields in the
Midwest. Fifteen months later, Chesapeake changed course with a
$420 million acquisition including wells in the Permian from
closely held  Concho Resources Inc (CXO) .  Chesapeake plans to raise another $2 billion selling
pipelines and gas-processing plants, oilfield-services
operations and miscellaneous investments, according to the
statement.  Separately, Chesapeake said it will sell $1 billion of
senior notes due in 2019 and use the proceeds to repay bank
credit.  Moody’s Investors Service cut its outlook for Chesapeake’s
corporate rating today to stable from positive, citing lower gas
prices and rising debt. The new offering was rated Ba3, three
levels below investment grade and a level lower than
Chesapeake’s corporate credit.  Moody’s considers up-front gas-production payments as debt
and probably will treat most, if not all, preferred shares sold
by subsidiaries as debt as well, according to the statement. The
combination of debt and asset sales planned this quarter may
raise the company’s debt by $3 billion, Moody’s said.  Exxon Mobil, based in Irving, Texas, is the largest U.S.
gas producer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  