-- Chile’s Finance Ministry Urges Central Bank to Consider Halting Peso Rally
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-02-13T11:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/chile-government-urges-central-bank-to-study-curbing-peso-rally.html
Chile ’s central bank should consider
joining its peers and resume dollar purchases to curb a rally in
the peso,  South America ’s best-performing currency in the past
month, Deputy Finance Minister Julio Dittborn said.  “Obviously it’s a concern that the peso is strengthening
so much,” he said in a telephone Feb. 10 interview, when he was
acting Finance Minister during Felipe Larrain’s vacation. “The
central bank should evaluate whether it is appropriate to
intervene again or not like it’s done in previous years.”  The peso has appreciated 6.2 percent in the past month and
8.1 percent since the central bank ended daily auctions on Dec.
16 through which it bought $12 billion last year. The currency
of the world’s largest copper producer may continue to
strengthen on rising metal prices, Leonardo Suarez, chief
economist at Larrain Vial SA, said on Feb. 9.  The government, whose fiscal policy doesn’t have a
“strong” influence on the  exchange rate , isn’t studying
measures to weaken the peso, Dittborn said. The ministry instead
will take care not to implement measures that strengthen the
currency. Whether to buy dollars is a decision for the central
bank, he said.  Colombia  started buying at least $20 million a day to
weaken its currency on Feb. 6, while  Brazil ’s central bank
bought dollars in the currency forwards market on Feb. 3 for the
first time since July.  ‘Red-Flag Zone’  The Chilean peso gained 0.7 percent to 476.13 per  U.S.
dollar  as of 8:30 a.m. in Santiago, according to prices from
Datatec, an interbank and over-the-counter trading system.  “As we approach the red-flag zone of 470 to 460 pesos, the
first thing you’d expect to see is government verbal
intervention,” said Alex Pigatto, a trader at Nomura Securities
Inc. in  New York .  If the central bank keeps its benchmark interest rate on
hold at 5 percent, the probability of a central bank
intervention in the currency increases, he said.  “It’s important to us that prices in the economy remain
aligned with long-term prices,” Dittborn said. “If the price
of the dollar falls a lot now, it’s a concern for some assets.”  Chile’s fruit producers’ federation, known as Fedefruta,
has asked the central bank to take steps to weaken the peso,
Antonio Walker, president of the industry group, said by
telephone last month.  Not Time  Chile’s central bank, which operates under a flexible
exchange-rate regime, intervened in the currency twice under the
former bank President Jose De Gregorio.  Rodrigo Aravena, chief economist at Banchile Inversiones in
Santiago, said it was premature to expect Chile’s central bank
to resume dollar purchases now.  “We’re far from an intervention,” he said by phone Feb.
10. “The real exchange rate is above the levels of the previous
interventions. It’s not the right time.”  The peso would have to strengthen to 463 per dollar for the
real exchange rate to match levels when the central bank
intervened in 2011, Jorge Selaive, chief economist at Banco de
Credito & Inversiones, said by telephone Feb. 10.  Policy makers could achieve the same effect on the peso as
they did in 2011 by buying $3 billion in dollars because the
bank has started to reduce borrowing costs, he said. By
contrast, the central bank raised its key  interest rate  five
times in the first half of last year.  “Any exchange-rate intervention would probably be more
successful than in 2011 because the monetary policy tendency is
for easing,” Selaive said.  Stimulus Measures  The government also is “far” from taking steps to
stimulate growth, with the economy expected to expand between 4
percent and 5 percent this year, Dittborn said.  The jobless rate was 6.6 percent in the three months
through December, the lowest rate since before the recession of
2009, while gross domestic product expanded an estimated 6.3
percent in 2011, he said.  Dittborn, 60, has a Master’s in Economics from the
 University of Chicago  and has taught at schools including the
University of Chile, the Pontifical  Catholic University  of Chile
and Andres Bello University. He was a member of Congress from
1997 to 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 