-- Childhood Abuse Disrupts Brain Formation, Harvard Study Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-02-13T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/childhood-abuse-disrupts-brain-formation-study.html
Childhood abuse leads to permanent
changes in a  seahorse-shaped area  of the brain that can cause
adult depression and drug abuse, Harvard researchers said in a
study that raises the possibility of new treatment.  Brain scans of adults who averaged 22 years old showed
differences in a part of the brain where new neurons are
generated, according to the study today in the  Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences . People exposed to childhood
abuse were found in the study to have a less-dense hippocampus.  About 3.7 million U.S. children are assessed yearly for
abuse, and the number may be higher because some cases don’t
come to light, studies show. Today’s findings may provide hope
for treatment because the brain is still growing throughout
early adulthood, said  Martin Teicher , a psychiatrist at  Harvard
Medical School  in  Boston . Mental illnesses caused by childhood
mistreatment may take  years  to develop.  “If you know there’s exposure, maybe there’s time to
intervene,” Teicher, a study author, said by telephone.  The hippocampus is known to be less active in people who
are depressed or schizophrenic.  Drugs such as antidepressants and anticonvulsants, and
lifestyle changes including vigorous exercise, prompt the
formation of new neurons, Teicher said. The new neurons may
blunt the effects of abuse and decrease the risk of adult
illnesses including depression and anxiety.  Child Abuse Cost  Such treatment would also save society money, Teicher said.
The cost associated with one year of child abuse is about
$124 billion,  according to  the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. Childhood abuse costs each person about $210,000
extra over a lifetime, including about $32,600 in childhood
health-care costs and $10,500 in adult expenses.  In today’s study, 193 un-medicated people underwent MRI
brain scans. They were also asked questions about childhood.
About a third of the respondents experienced physical abuse,
while another third witnessed domestic violence.  The research showed that those who experienced or
witnessed the abuse had an average of 5.8 percent to 6.5 percent
reductions in the volume of the hippocampus, which is involved
in processing emotion and memory. Studies have indicated that
this brain region is very vulnerable to stress, Teicher said.  “What’s really going on is these changes are a consequence
of childhood abuse,” said Teicher, who is also affiliated with
McLean Hospital. It is part of an accumulating body of evidence
that shows there are physical effects from being raised in an
abusive household.  A  2009 study  in Nature Neuroscience found that people who
were abused or neglected as children were more biologically
sensitive to stress. Other research has shown that abuse may
shorten  life expectancy  by as much as 20 years, and  2009 study 
in Biological Psychiatry showed a link between abuse and early
cellular aging.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 