-- Most China Stocks Rise as Wen’s Comments; Developers Drop on Wuhu Reversal
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-13T07:29:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/china-s-stocks-drop-on-wuhu-s-property-reversal-slumping-bank-loan-growth.html
Most  Chinese stocks  rose after
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the nation needs to start “fine-
tuning” economic policies this quarter, boosting speculation
the government will ease monetary policy further.  Shuangliang Eco-Energy Systems Co. (600481) , a maker of sea water
desalination equipment, advanced 4 percent after China said it
will increase support for the industry. Western Mining Co. led
gains for metals producers as the Greek parliament approved
austerity measures to secure a second bailout package.  China
Vanke Co. (000002)  and Poly Real Estate Group Co. led a gauge of property
companies to its biggest drop in a week after Wuhu city said it
will shelve a plan to provide housing subsidies.  Wen’s comments “boosted sentiment but this is nothing
different from what he had said back in December,” Helen Zhu, a
strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in  Hong Kong . “Policy makers actually have
a lot of different policy areas they can fine tune.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.13 point, or less
than 0.1 percent, to 2,351.85 at the close. About five stocks
rose for every two that fell on the measure. The  CSI 300 Index 
lost 0.1 percent to 2,531.98. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index ,
the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies,
retreated 1.2 percent on Jan. 10 in  New York .  The  Shanghai  index advanced 0.9 percent last week for a
fourth weekly gain, its longest winning streak since July 15.
The measure has rebounded 6.9 percent this year on speculation
the central bank will further cut lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios to spur growth. It announced a reduction in reserve
ratios on Nov. 30, the first reduction since 2008, after
boosting them and  interest rates  last year to cool inflation
that accelerated to its fastest pace in three years in July.  Poor Economic Data  China will increase policy support in the areas of fiscal
and taxation, financial and pricing for the sea water
desalination industry and projects, according to a State Council
statement posted on the government’s website today.  Shuangliang Eco-Energy jumped 4 percent to 8.24 yuan, its
highest close since Dec. 21. China Gezhouba Group Co. added 0.5
percent to 8.14 yuan.  Anhui Water Resources Development Co. (600502)  rose
0.7 percent to 13.94 yuan.  China’s economic circumstances in January and the first
quarter deserve attention, Premier Wen told business executives
last week in Beijing, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
yesterday.  Wen’s remarks may fuel speculation that the government will
soon ease policy to preserve growth in the world’s second-
biggest economy. New lending missed estimates by 26 percent in
January and  money supply  grew the least in more than a decade,
according to data released by the central bank on Feb. 10 after
the market closed.  Bank Loans  Chinese banks extended 738.1 billion yuan ($117 billion) of
new yuan-denominated loans last month, the People’s Bank of
China said in a statement. That compares with the median
forecast of 1 trillion yuan in a Bloomberg News survey of 26
economists and 641 billion yuan in December.  New lending may rebound to 830 billion yuan this month and
840 billion yuan in March as money flows back to banks as
deposits, Ni Jun, an analyst at Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.,
wrote in a report today.  China ’s A shares may catch up with the rally in global
equity markets if the government takes “pre-emptive” policy
measures such as a cut in reserve ratios within the next few
months, according to Citigroup Inc.  Stocks Held ‘Hostage’  The nation’s yuan-denominated shares have been held
“hostage” by the government’s slower-than-expected policy
moves, Minggao Shen and Ben Wei, Citigroup analysts, said in a
report dated today. “Unless the Chinese authorities are ready
to accept a slower pace of growth, headline easing is drawing
near,” they said.  Western Mining, China’s fourth-largest maker of zinc
concentrate, gained 0.5 percent to 10.69 yuan. Shenzhen Zhongjin
Lingnan Nonfemet Co., the nation’s third-largest zinc producer,
added 1.2 percent to 10.13 yuan.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won parliamentary
approval for austerity measures to secure a 130 billion euro
($172 billion) international bailout as rioters protesting the
cuts battled police and set fire to buildings in  Athens .  Passage of the austerity bill puts the spotlight on a
meeting of euro-region finance ministers on Feb. 15 that must
decide whether to approve the second aid package.  Europe  is China’s biggest export market, making up about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities.  Property Curbs  A measure of  property stocks  in the Shanghai Composite
declined 1.8 percent, the most among the five industry groups.  Vanke, the nation’s biggest listed property developer,
slumped 1.9 percent to 7.70 yuan. Poly Real Estate, the second
largest, tumbled 3.1 percent to 10.57 yuan.  Gemdale Corp. (600383) 
retreated 2.9 percent to 5.40 yuan.  The mid-sized city of Wuhu in Anhui province will
temporarily suspend a home subsidy policy so it can study
details on how to implement the rules, according to a statement
on the local authority’s website yesterday. Wuhu will waive a
deed tax and subsidize some home purchases, it said Feb. 9,
becoming the first Chinese city this year to signal its
intention to ease property curbs.  Wuhu’s reversal shows the stock market has “severely
underestimated” the central government’s political will to cool
the housing market further, Jinsong Du, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, wrote in a note to clients.  Hong Kong Discount  China won’t waver on its real-estate curbs, which aim to
bring  home prices  to a reasonable level, Xinhua quoted Premier
Wen as saying in yesterday’s report.  The nation’s stocks may trade at a discount to their Hong
Kong counterparts for the first time in five years as share
transactions drop in Shanghai.  Companies in the Shanghai A-Share Stock  Price Index  traded
at 9.4 times on Feb. 7, compared with 8.5 times for the  Hang
Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That 11 percent premium is the least since February 2007. An
average $1.94 billion more shares changed hands daily in
Shanghai than securities on the Hong Kong stock exchange the
past 100 days, near the lowest level since January 2009. The H-
shares gauge has rallied 16 percent this year.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slipped 2.9 percent to $38.93
on Feb. 10, the lowest since Jan. 31. The fund slumped 3.9
percent last week.  --Zhang Shidong. With assistance from Weiyi Lim in  Singapore .
Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  