-- China Shale Delay to Boost LNG Imports in Boon for Exxon: Energy
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y ,   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n   a n d   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-02-14T13:14:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/china-shale-delay-to-boost-lng-imports-in-boon-for-exxon-energy.html
China ’s ambitions to unlock the
natural gas trapped in shale rocks are likely to take longer
than planned, boosting the nation’s reliance on overseas
suppliers from Exxon Mobil Corp. to Royal Dutch Shell Plc.  Shale gas output will rise to 23 billion cubic meters in
2020, or 29 percent of the government’s 80 billion target, under
the average estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
The shortfall, stemming in part from tougher geology, should
boost liquefied natural gas imports from about $5.8 billion in
2011 while curbing speculation that the nation can duplicate the
U.S. shale boom that has upended global energy markets.  Drillers in China, the world’s biggest holder of shale
reserves, have yet to produce shale gas commercially, with Shell
helping  China National Petroleum Corp. (CNPZ)  to sink the nation’s
first horizontal well. Explorers such as  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and China
Petrochemical Corp., which have invested more than $5.7 billion
in so-called unconventional oil and gas assets overseas, have
found their technology lacking at home.  “There are resources in China but the geology is different
and more challenging than in the U.S.,” Liu Zhenwu, a vice
president at state-run CNPC’s advisory center, said in a Feb. 7
interview in Bangkok. “Technical issues need to be solved
first. It may take a few years, maybe a decade, maybe more,
before large quantities of shale gas are produced in China.”  Until then, China will need to boost purchases of LNG from
providers such as Exxon, Chevron Corp. and Woodside Petroleum
Ltd. to meet demand. The nation imported 12.2 million metric
tons of LNG in 2011, worth $5.8 billion at last year’s average
price, customs data show. Paris-based GDF Suez SA estimated
shipments may almost quadruple to 44 million tons in 2020.  Shale Versus Imports  “China may well emerge as a new shale-gas frontier, but
production isn’t likely to be in very significant volumes
compared with conventional gas supply for a decade at least,”
said Thomas Grieder, a Geneva-based Asia Pacific energy analyst
at industry consultant IHS Energy. “The country will continue
to rely on LNG imports.”  The global LNG market last year was valued at about $123
billion, based on an average price of $10 for a million British
thermal units and 336 billion cubic meters of shipments.  Grieder forecasts China will produce 20 billion cubic
meters of shale gas in 2020. “The government’s target is
ambitious,” he said. “It reflects their confidence about the
resource base and about strong domestic and foreign investor
interest in the sector.”  Gas Prices  The U.S. produced 96 billion cubic meters in 2009,
overtaking  Russia  as the world’s biggest natural gas provider.
Output surged to 142 billion cubic meters in 2010, causing
prices to slump. Cheniere Energy Inc. and Freeport LNG
Development LP are among companies that plan to liquefy and
export U.S. gas.  Natural gas prices in  New York  were close to $10 per
million British thermal units end of 2000 and rose a record of
$15.38 per million British thermal units in December 2005,
spurring drilling investments. Prices on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  have dropped 18 percent this year. The March contract
rose 1.2 percent to $2.46 per million British thermal units at
7:52 a.m. New York time.  Chinese shale may hold 1,275 trillion cubic feet (36
trillion cubic meters) of technically recoverable gas, 12 times
the country’s conventional gas deposits, an April  report  by the
U.S. Energy Information Administration said.  That’s almost triple the 482 trillion cubic feet in the
U.S., according to a Jan. 23 estimate by the EIA. It didn’t give
a revised estimate for China. U.S. engineers pioneered
techniques to extract gas from shale about 17 years ago.  ‘Not Gotten Started’  “The U.S. shale gas industry is booming, and we’ve not
gotten started yet,” said Zhang Jinchuan, a professor of
geology at the China University of Geosciences in Beijing and an
adviser in shale gas to China’s Ministry of Land and Resources.
“If the industry develops quickly, then China could possibly
catch up with the U.S. in 15 or 20 years.”  A survey by the Chinese government last year showed 25
trillion cubic meters of reserves could be explored in the
country, Zhang Dawei, deputy head strategic research at the land
ministry, said in a Jan. 9  newsletter . China aims to produce 80
billion cubic meters annually by 2020, Zhang said in October,
citing the draft of a national plan.  The country may hold about 31 trillion cubic meters of the
resource, or about 14 percent less than the U.S. EIA estimate,
Xinhua News Agency reported. It cited Wang Min, vice minister of
land, at a Feb. 12 national geological survey conference in
Beijing.  Wang was more optimistic about shale-gas output, saying it
may exceed 100 billion cubic meters in 2020, Xinhua reported.
China hasn’t published an official estimate of the resource.  Complex Geology  “On average the shale deposits in China are deeper than in
the U.S. and more difficult to get to,”  Neil Beveridge , an
energy analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  Hong Kong , said
Feb. 10. “The minerology of the shale rocks in China is also
primarily what is called non-marine, which means their
productivity could be lower. The U.S. has marine shales which
have much lower clay content and are more easily fractured.”  Teams that unlock gas with hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, in the U.S. found success mostly from 2 kilometers
(1.2 miles) to 4 kilometers deep, while in China some key
deposits are found 6 kilometers down, according to Beveridge.  Chinese shales are also structurally more complex and pose
greater challenges to design wells. Overcoming these issues adds
to costs, he said. Delays in auctioning shale acreage and
framing rules and incentives to encourage exploration may also
slow development.  Chinese Auctions  China first auctioned exploration blocks in June and has
delayed a second sale twice because the land ministry plans to
double the number of areas to be offered and is drafting a
national plan to develop the resource. The government plans to
hold the tender by the end of this month or in early March, the
land ministry’s Zhang said Feb. 13 by telephone.  Foreign explorers are barred from participating directly in
the auctions and must partner with Chinese companies.  China may need to ease price controls to allow domestic
fuel suppliers to earn a profit. Gas importers are losing money
as they typically buy at overseas rates that are higher than the
fixed domestic prices they are allowed to charge customers.  “A key difference between China and the U.S. is the way
people do business,” Zhang, the geology professor, said Feb.
10. “In the U.S. everybody can apply for exploration rights and
run it as a business. China needs to encourage companies to
invest in the hope of earning a reasonable return. We have so
many rules that prevent entry into the sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
Dinakar Sethuraman in New Delhi at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  