-- China’s Government Bonds Rally After Wen Pledges Fine-Tuning
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-13T09:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/china-s-government-bonds-rally-after-wen-pledges-fine-tuning.html
China ’s government bonds rallied
after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the country should start “fine-
tuning” economic policies this quarter, fueling speculation the
reserve-requirement ratio will be cut.  Wen said economic conditions in January deserved attention,
according to a Xinhua News Agency report yesterday. “We have to
make a proper judgment as early as possible when things happen
and take quick action,” he told the state-run agency. In
December, the People’s Bank of China lowered the amount lenders
must set aside as reserves by 50 basis points to 21 percent.  “Wen’s comments revived investors’ confidence that the
easing trend will continue,” said Liu Junyu a Shenzhen-based
bond analyst at China Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-
biggest lender. “The 10-year government bond yield may drop to
as low as 3.45 percent this week.”  The yield on the 3.83 percent government bond due March
2021 fell six basis points to 3.53 percent, according to quotes
provided by the Interbank Funding Center. The rate rose 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage point, last week.  Chinese Banks extended 738.1 billion yuan ($117 billion) of
new yuan-denominated loans last month, according to data
released by the People’s Bank of China on Feb. 10. That compares
with the median forecast of 1 trillion yuan in a Bloomberg News
survey of 26 economists and 641 billion yuan in December.  The lending figure spurred concern about growth in the
world’s second-biggest economy, which helps boost demand for the
perceived safety of government debt, China Merchants’ Liu said.  Swaps Rise  The People’s Bank of China gauged demand for 28- and 91-day
 repurchase agreements  this week, according to a trader at a
primary dealer required to bid at the auctions. It didn’t test
interest in bill sales, according to the trader who declined to
be identified because the information isn’t public. The monetary
authority has suspended sales of three- and 12-month bills for
six weeks or more.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, climbed two
basis points to 3.28 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose two basis points to 3.66 percent,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen ,  Andrea Wong . Editors: Andrew Janes, James Regan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in  Shanghai  at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 