-- China Property Stocks Fall as Wuhu Halts Easing of Curbs: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-13T08:35:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/china-property-stocks-fall-as-wuhu-halts-easing-of-curbs-shanghai-mover.html
China ’s property stocks fell as the
eastern city of Wuhu suspended a decision to ease property curbs
three days after its announcement, signaling that the central
government won’t relax policies any time soon.  A measure tracking real estate stocks on the Shanghai
 Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 1.8 percent at the close, the most among
five industry groups on the benchmark gauge.  Poly Real Estate
Group Co. (600048) , the nation’s second-biggest developer by market value,
dropped 3.1 percent in Shanghai, the most in two weeks.  China
Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest, decreased 1.9 percent in Shenzhen.  The mid-sized city in Anhui province will temporarily
suspend its home subsidy policy so it can study details on how
to implement the rules, according to a statement on the local
authority’s website yesterday. China won’t waver on its real-
estate controls, which aim to bring  home prices  down to a
reasonable level, to ensure fairness and stability, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said during a meeting with business executives last week,
Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.  “We at Credit Suisse recommend selling China property
sector now,” Jinsong Du, the bank’s Hong Kong-based analyst,
wrote in an e-mailed note. “The Wuhu reversal clearly shows
that the stock market has severely underestimated the central
government’s political will to cool the housing market
significantly further.”  Wuhu would have been the first Chinese city this year to
ease measures ordered by the central government. The move to
halt its plan, including waiving a deed tax and subsidizing some
home purchases, followed in the footsteps of the southern
Chinese city of Foshan, which in October shelved plans to ease
limits on home purchases one day after its announcement.  Developers Skeptical  China intensified measures last year to prevent a housing
bubble, with home-purchase restrictions in 40 cities and higher
mortgage requirements. Prices fell in January from December, a
fifth consecutive monthly decline and the longest streak of
losses since SouFun Holdings Ltd., China’s biggest real estate
website, began compiling the figures.  Evergrande Real Estate Group Ltd. (3333) , China’s second-biggest
developer by sales with projects in Wuhu, declined 6.9 percent
at the close in  Hong Kong , the most in two weeks, while
 Greentown China Holdings Ltd. (3900)  lost 8.1 percent, the most since
Nov. 30. Six out of the 10 worst performers on MSCI China Index
were property companies.  Developers are skeptical and universally cautious on the
easing policies announced by Wuhu and believe that a “material
policy reversion” by the central government this year is
unlikely, wrote Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts, led by  Yi
Wang , in a report today.  Under Pressure  Wuhu, a third-tier Chinese industrial city and home to
Chery Automobile Co., the country’s sixth-largest automaker,
will give subsidies of 50 yuan ($7.90) a square meter (10.76
square feet) for the purchase of homes of 70 square meters to 90
square meters, and 150 yuan a square meter for new homes smaller
than 70 square meters, the local government said in a Feb. 9
statement.  “The retraction was probably done after pressure,”
Jeffrey Gao, a Shanghai-based property analyst at Macquarie
Group Ltd., said by phone yesterday. “Their policies went too
far and were surprising.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  