-- Claire’s, Chesapeake Sell Bonds as High-Yield Appetite Revives
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-02-13T21:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/claire-s-chesapeake-selling-bonds-as-appetite-for-high-yield-debt-revives.html
Claire’s Stores Inc. (CLE) , the jewelry
retailer owned by Apollo Global Management LLC, and  Chesapeake
Energy Corp. (CHK)  are offering bonds, as investor appetite for high-
yield debt soars to the highest level since June.  Claire’s, graded Caa2 by Moody’s Investors Service and B-
by  Standard & Poor’s , sold $400 million of 9 percent, seven-year
notes, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chesapeake,
rated three steps below investment grade at Moody’s, may issue
$1 billion of seven-year debt at a yield of about 7 percent
today, said a person with knowledge of the offering, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  Borrowing costs for high-yield, high-risk companies have
tumbled to the lowest since August on signs the economic
recovery is gaining traction and as the Federal Reserve pledges
to hold  interest rates  at record lows through at least late
2014. Investors have poured more than $1.35 billion into junk
mutual funds for five weeks, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts wrote
in a Feb. 10 note, helping the companies sell $44.3 billion of
debt this year, the busiest two months since May and June.  “The high-yield makeup is better quality than we’ve ever
seen it,” Margie Patel, a  fund manager  at  Wells Fargo & Co .,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview on “Surveillance
Midday” with  Tom Keene . Junk borrowers are being “very prudent
about their balance sheets and very opportunistic,” she said.  ‘Opportunistic’ Debt Sales  Yields on debt rated CCC and lower reached 12.65 percent on
Feb. 8, the lowest since Aug. 17, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  Endeavour International Corp. (END) , a
Houston-based oil and gas exploration company, sold $500 million
of 12 percent, seven-year notes today rated Caa1 by Moody’s,
Bloomberg data show.  Claire’s is seeking to replace a revolving line of credit
by 2013 and refinance $1.2 billion of term loans due in 2014,
Gimme Credit LLC analyst Evan Mann wrote in a Feb. 10 note.  The notes from Claire’s will be graded B3 by Moody’s,
according to a note today.  Despite the fashion-stores company’s slide in  credit
quality , from an overall rating of B3 assigned in 2007, the 9
percent yield represents the second-lowest coupon on record for
Claire’s after 8.875 percent debt issued in July, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  High-Yield Rally  “People are more comfortable with CCCs now than a month
ago because of the rally in the market,” said Marc Gross, a
 money manager  at RS Investments in New York who oversees $3
billion of fixed-income funds. That’s helping a company like
 Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based Claire’s sell debt, he said.  Companies graded CCC have accounted for 7.2 percent of bond
sales this year, compared with 10.4 percent in 2011, according
to the Feb. 10 note from JPMorgan.  Chesapeake, based in  Oklahoma City , is marketing debt as it
plans to raise as much as $12 billion this year from asset sales
and joint ventures in an effort to generate enough cash to meet
drilling expenses. Proceeds from the bond sale, the natural-gas
extractor’s second in a five-month period, will be used to pay
back bank borrowings and for general corporate purposes, the
company said today in a statement.  Yields on all speculative-grade bonds tumbled to 7.76
percent on Feb. 9, the lowest since Aug. 3, before rising to
7.78 percent on Feb. 10, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. Relative yields fell to 626 basis points on Feb. 9,
the lowest since Aug. 5, the index data show.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- at S&P.  CityCenter Holdings LLC, the joint venture of MGM Resorts
International and Dubai World, priced a $240 million add-on to
an issue of 7.625 percent first-lien senior secured notes at
104.75 cents on the dollar, the company said in a statement
distributed by PR Newswire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  