-- Companies Encouraged to Share Cyberthreat Data Under Senate Bill
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-02-13T22:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/companies-encouraged-to-share-cyberthreat-data-under-senate-bill.html
The U.S. government would share
classified data on cyberthreats with companies that run  computer
networks  essential to national and economic security under
legislation introduced in the Senate.  The measure would offer legal protection to businesses that
disclose cybersecurity data to the government and is aimed at
encouraging U.S. agencies and corporations to swap timely
information about hacker threats, said Senator  Dianne Feinstein ,
a California Democrat, who introduced the bill today.  “Alongside terrorism, cybersecurity is perhaps the number
one threat facing our nation today,” Feinstein said in a
statement. “But many obstacles exist that prevent the
cooperation and coordination needed to deter this growing
threat.”  U.S. lawmakers and regulators say legislation is needed to
fight increasingly sophisticated cyber attacks by Chinese
hackers, criminal groups and activists that cost companies
billions of dollars and threaten to disrupt power grids, banks
and communications networks.  The Senate bill introduced today is similar to legislation
approved in December by the House Intelligence Committee. A
broader measure aimed at strengthening network defenses at vital
U.S. infrastructure may be introduced in the Senate as early as
this week.  Feinstein’s bill would require the federal government to
designate an agency or office as a “cybersecurity exchange” to
serve as a hub for compiling and distributing information on
hacker threats, Feinstein said.  The measure would provide a shield from civil and criminal
liability to companies that share threat data with each other or
the government.  Feinstein said it would be included in the broader bill
developed by Senators  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut Independent,
and  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat.  The comprehensive cybersecurity measure may be introduced
tomorrow, Leslie Phillips, a spokeswoman for Lieberman, said in
an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  