-- Death of Kabila Mine Adviser May Cause Congo Power Struggle
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-02-13T16:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/congo-presidential-mine-adviser-s-death-may-cause-power-struggle.html
The death of  Democratic Republic  of
Congo President  Joseph Kabila ’s senior business adviser may
trigger a power struggle in one of  Africa ’s biggest mineral-
producing countries, said analysts including  Thomas Wilson  at
London-based consulting firm africapractice.  Augustin Katumba Mwanke, the former governor of copper-rich
Katanga province, was among five people who died yesterday when
a Gulfstream IV jet crashed after overshooting the runway at an
airport outside the eastern city of Bukavu. Congolese Finance
Minister Matata Ponyo and at least three other government
officials were injured in the incident.  “The death of Augustin Katumba Mwanke will have serious
repercussions for the Kabila regime and in particular for the
mining sector,” Wilson, senior consultant at africapractice,
said by e-mail today. “His removal from the political scene
will encourage a power struggle among politicians keen to fill
the void.”  Congo holds about 4 percent of the world’s copper reserves
and about half its cobalt, a mineral used in rechargeable
batteries, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey . The Central
African nation is the continent’s top tin producer, has deposits
of gold and diamonds, and is exploring for oil.  ‘Power Behind Throne’  Foreign diplomats and businessmen regarded Katumba Mwanke
as “the power behind the throne,” according to a December 2009
secret diplomatic cable published by Wikileaks, the anti-secrecy
website. He was instrumental in negotiating a $6 billion
minerals-for-infrastructure contract with  China  and was a
confidant of Israeli investor Dan Gertler, who works with
companies including  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  and Eurasian
Natural Resources Corp. in the country, according to the cable.  “Most big businesses needed to work through Katumba and he
was also a guarantor of their deals,” Georges Kyriakos,
president of Mauritius-based MagEnergy International, which is
seeking to develop two hydropower projects in Congo, said today
in an interview in Johannesburg. “Without him there there will
be a great deal of uncertainty about who will ensure that
agreements remain intact.”  Those seeking to take Katumba Mwanke’s place in Kabila’s
inner circle may include Evariste Boshab, the head of Congo’s
National Assembly, Interior Minister Adolphe Lumanu and Pierre
Lumbi, the national security adviser, Jason Stearns, former head
of the United Nations group of experts on Congo, wrote yesterday
on his blog,  Congo Siasa .  Intellect And Network  “No one had the combination of intellect, business know-
how and expansive networks that Katumba did, especially in the
business sector,” Stearns said“To that extent, no one can
easily fill his shoes.”  Katumba Mwanke worked as an “ambassador” for Congo and
his death left “a great void” for Kabila’s family, Lumanu told
reporters yesterday in Kinshasa, the capital. He didn’t comment
further. Boshab wouldn’t comment on the issue to reporters at a
briefing held at his house yesterday in Kinshasa. Lumbi’s phone
didn’t connect when Bloomberg called him seeking comment today.  Re-elected to Congo’s National Assembly in the country’s
Nov. 28 elections, Katumba Mwanke was a former representative of
the government on the board of directors of  Anvil Mining Ltd. (AVM) ,
the Australian mining company that produces copper in Congo. The
former banker kept a low public profile and worked for Kabila
behind the scenes, Wilson said.  The Gatekeeper  “Katumba acted as the gatekeeper to Katanga’s lucrative
copper assets for much of the past decade and developed close
relationships with many of the country’s largest investors,” he
said.  Congo is one the most difficult places in the world to do
business, according to the  World Bank , which placed Congo 178th
out of 183 countries in its Doing Business survey last year. The
government is also in transition while it waits for the Supreme
Court to certify parliamentary election results.  Parties allied with Kabila won more than 260 out of 500
seats, according to provisional results from the electoral
commission. They are expected to form a new government after the
 Supreme Court  announcement, which is scheduled for March 16.  The elections, which also saw Kabila re-elected in
November, were criticized by international and domestic
electoral observers including Congo’s Catholic Church.  A 2002 UN report on illegal resource exploitation during
Congo’s wars, which stretched from the mid-1990s until 2003,
recommended Katumba Mwanke be sanctioned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  