-- Corruption Perception Holding India Back, Bank of Singapore Says
-- B y   R i n a   C h a n d r a n
-- 2012-02-13T11:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/corruption-perception-holding-india-back-bank-of-singapore-says.html
A perception of increased corruption
in  India  has hurt investment and contributed to a 15 percent
slide in its stock market since early 2008, according to a
report from the Bank of Singapore Ltd.  “Corruption perceptions have worsened in recent years, and
this has led to a decline in the investment-to-gross domestic
product ratio,”  Richard Jerram , chief economist at Bank of
Singapore, said in an e-mailed report, citing Transparency
International’s Corruption Perceptions Index. “This has been a
major factor behind infrastructure bottlenecks that have led to
persistently high inflation and a slowing trend growth rate.”  India’s rupee slumped 16 percent last year, the worst
performer in Asia, as growth slowed and corruption scandals that
sparked protests hampered the government’s ability to push
forward policies aimed at spurring investment. That contrasts
with  Indonesia , where declining perceptions of corruption have
been accompanied by a rise in the investment-to-GDP ratio,
Jerram said.  “Corruption can be seen as a form of tax on economic
activity, so in effect it raises the cost of doing business and
reduces returns to investors,” said Jerram, who examined the
rankings of the annual Corruption Perceptions  Index  for
countries over more than a decade. “Higher corruption results
in lower expected cash flows.”  Indonesia’s economy, the largest in  Southeast Asia ,
expanded 6.5 percent in 2011, and the nation has in recent
months received ratings upgrades from  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s
Investors Service, restoring its debt to investment grade for
the first time since the Asian financial crisis. The benchmark
Jakarta Composite index is up about 40 percent from early 2008
levels.  Of the other developing economies in  Asia , the Philippines
offers the “most interesting prospects” as its 2011 corruption
perception index reading was the best since 2004, Jerram said.
“Thailand is still trying to repair the damage from increased
corruption perceptions from the previous Thaksin administration,
while Malaysia is struggling to convince investors about its
latest economic reform plan,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rina Chandran in Singapore at 
 rchandran12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  