-- Cox-to-Time Warner Cable Firms Hit Phone Grip on Hospitals: Tech
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/cox-to-time-warner-cable-firms-hit-phone-grip-on-hospitals-tech.html
Jack Sappenfield was driving in
rural  Oklahoma  on Father’s Day 2009 when he lost control of the
left side of his body. Alarmed and dizzy, he quickly turned back
to a small local hospital.  “The emergency room staff was actually really excited when
I came in, and I didn’t know what to make of it,” said
Sappenfield, 73. Here’s why: The clinic had just installed
technology that allows specialists to remotely examine patients
via videoconference, and Sappenfield became the first stroke
victim to be treated using the system, running on  Cox
Communications Inc. (COX) ’s cable network.  He was examined remotely by a doctor in  Oklahoma City ,
whose instructions helped him recover.  “It was an amazing turnaround,” said Sappenfield.  The technology that saved Sappenfield is becoming more
mainstream and providing fresh vitality to Cox and other U.S.
cable  carriers , which are seeking new revenue sources as growth
in TV customers slows. The companies are ramping up sales staffs
to sell broadband access and related services to regional
hospitals and doctors’ offices, trying to squeeze more money out
of a network they used to use mainly for carrying TV signals.  To do that, they need to loosen the grip phone companies
such as  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  have over
health-care customers. That won’t be easy, as the rivals devote
more resources to divisions dedicated to the sector, such as
AT&T ForHealth and Verizon Connected Healthcare Solutions.  Cutting the Cord  Basic cable-TV subscribers have fallen every year since
2005, from 66 million to 59.3 million in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Video sales fell 1.1 percent in 2011 from
a year earlier at Time Warner Cable Inc., the second-largest
U.S. cable provider.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest cable carrier,
reports earnings Feb. 15.  While cable companies still rely on residential services
for the majority of their revenue, the biggest growth in the
industry is from connecting regional businesses with broadband
and other services, particularly hospitals and schools.  Time Warner Cable (TWC) ’s sales to companies and organizations
rose 37 percent to $409 million in the fourth quarter, leading
Chief Executive Officer Glenn Britt to call business services
“our biggest success story” on a conference call last month.
The company projects 25 percent to 30 percent growth in 2012.  Hospitals are prime candidates to upgrade their Internet
networks from slower connections to cable broadband as the
government mandates the digitization of medical records, said
Phil Meeks, Cox’s senior vice president of business services.  “Within our franchise area, about 80 percent of annual
health-care revenue is still being captured by
telecommunications companies,” said Meeks, who values the
health-care market in Cox’s service regions at $460 million.  Transmitting X-Rays  Health care accounts for about 10 percent of Cox’s overall
business services revenue, or about $100 million. That’s 20
percent higher than a year ago, and annual growth will probably
accelerate as Cox boosts its sales efforts and improves its so-
called telemedicine services, Meeks said.  Satya Parimi, Time Warner Cable’s senior director of
health-care solutions, said his division is one of the company’s
fastest-growing sales channels. The New York-based company and
Comcast don’t release health-care revenue separately from
business services.  Comcast, Time Warner Cable and Cox, the three largest U.S.
cable companies, have a multifaceted approach to making money
from the health-care industry. The first step is to connect
facilities with broadband. Once connected, hospitals can link to
satellite clinics and doctors’ offices with dedicated fiber
lines, allowing for rapid and secure transport of high-bandwidth
files such as X-rays and MRI results.  Bundle Effect  Comcast’s Metro Ethernet network, introduced in May 2011,
is targeted to business customers, including hospitals. The
company can transport data at faster speeds than traditional
phone company Internet connection, said Kevin O’Toole, Comcast’s
senior vice president of product management and strategy for
business services. A hospital can download a 500 megabyte
digital X-ray in 40 seconds with Metro Ethernet, a file that
would take 44 minutes to download with a slower connection, said
Jennifer Khoury, a Comcast spokeswoman.  Hospitals are more likely to bundle services, including
television and landline phone, if they buy broadband from cable
companies, O’Toole said. Philadelphia-based Comcast’s business-
services market opportunity is about $10 billion to $15 billion,
and health care is a “large part” of that, he said.  “The bundling of services allows cable to offer lower
pricing to get into the market,” said  David Joyce , an analyst
at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York. “Now that cable companies
have been focusing on the commercial market, they should be
expected to take more share.”  Incumbents’ Grip  Displacing Verizon and AT&T is a challenge, Joyce said.
They’re large enough to engage in a pricing war and they offer
wireless access, which cable doesn’t have, he said. Verizon’s
new network using so-called long-term evolution technology is
available in most U.S. hospitals and can frequently achieve
speeds faster than a cable modem, according to Peter Tippett,
vice president of Verizon Connected Healthcare Solutions.  Verizon is also touting data security as competitive
advantage. The 1996 U.S. Health Insurance Portability and
Accountability Act set security standards for transferring data,
making it illegal for doctors to e-mail health records without
specific safeguards. Verizon’s acquisition of cloud provider
Terremark Worldwide Inc. last year and Cybertrust in 2007 allows
the company to provide the “most secure” network to send and
store private health records, Tippett said.  Not Just Speed  AT&T’s longevity serving hospitals is an advantage over
cable competitors, said Randall Porter, assistant vice president
of AT&T ForHealth. The Dallas-based company can fortify an
already existing network by adding mobile devices, sensors and
software to enhance its service. AT&T has boosted health-care
spending in recent years and gets about $5 billion a year in
 revenue  from the industry, Porter said.  “It’s not just about broadband speed,” Porter said. “You
have to have the device, the application and the network to
provide the experience.”  To persuade businesses to switch from phone companies,
Comcast, Time Warner Cable and Cox have partnered with
technology companies to build more advanced applications on top
of their cable networks as added enhancements.  One example is home health monitoring. A Time Warner Cable
service allows an individual’s vital statistics to be entered
daily into an application that’s viewed by a physician. The
information is stored on servers hosted by NaviSite Inc., a
cloud storage company acquired by Time Warner Cable last year.  Teledoctor’s Orders  Having years of data on  blood pressure , weight, insulin
levels and other statistics allows doctors to make more accurate
diagnoses, said Scott Patch, a family physician in  Portland ,
 Maine , who uses Time Warner Cable’s infrastructure.  Patch is also using an application that allows him to
videoconference with patients who also have Time Warner Cable’s
broadband service at their home. The product is particularly
useful for elderly patients who have trouble getting to the
doctor’s office routinely.  “I have one patient, a diabetic, and I was talking to his
wife on videoconference, and I see him eating a bag of chips in
the background,” Patch said. “I’m like, ‘Hey you, don’t eat
that whole bag of chips!’ The televisits allow doctors to see
how patients are doing away from the very sterile doctor’s
office environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  