-- Oil Drops From Five-Week High on U.S Stockpiles, European Debt Downgrade
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-02-14T08:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/crude-oil-falls-from-highest-settlement-in-one-month-in-new-york-trading.html
Oil fell from the highest price in
almost five weeks on speculation that U.S. crude supplies are
rising and demand for fuel may falter as  Europe  grapples with
lower credit ratings.  Futures declined as much as 0.5 percent after Moody’s
Investors Service cut the debt ratings of six European countries
and revised its outlook to “negative” for the U.K. and  France .
Euro-area finance chiefs convene tomorrow for a meeting on
financial aid for Greece, while a U.S. Energy Department report
may show crude stockpiles  climbed  a fourth week, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  “The news from Moody’s is a reminder of the risks that
remain” for oil demand in Europe, said  Michael McCarthy , a
chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty in
Sydney who forecasts New York crude will trade between $98.50
and $102.50 a barrel. “The meeting of euro finance ministers
tomorrow will coincide with the publication of the U.S.
inventory data. We’re seeing further concerns that a deal for
 Greece  might not come through.”  Oil for March delivery slid as much as 54 cents to $100.37
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $100.61 at 8:05 a.m. London time. The
contract rose 2.3 percent yesterday, the biggest gain since Jan.
3. Prices are 19 percent higher than a year ago.  Brent oil for March settlement slipped 58 cents to $117.35
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange. The contract
expires today. The more-actively traded April future fell 52
cents to $116.87. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate narrowed to $16.67 from
$17.02. It reached a record of $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Globex Glitch  Yesterday’s settlement prices for crude and oil-product
futures and options were based on floor trading in  New York 
after CME Group Inc. halted electronic trading on its Globex
system because of technical issues.  The glitch “pushed traders onto the Nymex floor, turning
an otherwise sleepy final half hour into a rush to close
trades,”  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania , said in a note to clients today.  U.S. crude inventories probably increased by 1.6 million
barrels last week in the longest buildup since April, according
to the median of 10 analyst estimates in the Bloomberg News
 survey . Gasoline supplies may have gained 675,000 barrels, the
survey showed.  Extraordinary Meeting  Distillate supply fell 1.1 million barrels to 145.5
million, the survey showed. Distillate fuels, which include
heating oil and diesel, gained 1.17 million barrels to 146.6
million in the week ended Feb. 3.  Moody’s lowered its ratings on  Spain ,  Italy , Portugal,
Slovakia, Slovenia and Malta, citing “uncertainty over the euro
area’s prospects for institutional reform of its fiscal and
economic framework.”  Euro-area finance chiefs will convene in Brussels tomorrow
for their second extraordinary meeting on Greece in a week.
Ministers declined to ratify a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion)
bailout for Greece in a special session on Feb. 9, demanding
that officials there put their verbal commitments into law.
Greek lawmakers approved the austerity measures yesterday.  Bullish Bets  Hedge-funds and other money managers raised bullish bets on
 Brent crude  by 9,023 contracts in the week ended Feb. 7,
according to data from ICE Futures Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 90,395 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. The data is for futures and options combined.  Bahrain’s energy minister said he would prefer  oil prices 
to remain close to current levels, which allow producers to
invest in output capacity without putting economic growth in the
West at risk. Prices of $110 a barrel or more may “derail
recoveries in a number of fragile Western economies,” Abdul Hussain Ali Mirza said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  