-- TDC’s Private Equity Owners Trim Back Holdings; Shares Decline
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-02-14T16:28:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/tdc-owners-offering-shares-worth-991-million-to-investors-1-.html
TDC A/S (TDC)  (TDC)’s private equity owners
raised about 5.6 billion Danish kroner ($982 million) selling
stakes in  Denmark ’s biggest phone company, according to three
people with knowledge of the transaction. The stock fell the
most in six months.  The investors sold shares at 43.40 kroner apiece, said the
people, who declined to be identified as the terms were private.
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Permira Advisers LLP, Apax Partners LLP and
Providence Equity Partners Inc. were among the firms that sold
shares, while KKR & Co. maintained its stake, according to
people familiar with the sale.  Private equity firms are using the recent rally in European
equity markets to exit older investments and raise cash for new
ones, said Huntington Asset Advisors’  Peter Sorrentino . Global
buyout firms are currently seeking almost $180 billion from
investors, according to Preqin Ltd.  “Capital is starting to flow,” said Sorrentino, a senior
 fund manager  who helps oversee $14.5 billion at Huntington in
Cincinnati. “People are starting to feel better about the
economy holding together.”  The buyout firms took TDC private six years ago in what was
then Europe’s largest leveraged buyout. The sellers offered
128.7 million shares in a sale arranged by  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
according to documents related to the transaction. The price was
4 percent less than Copenhagen-based TDC’s  close  yesterday.  High Dividends  The group’s stake now stands at about 43 percent of TDC,
compared with the 59 percent before the sale. TDC’s owners are
luring investors with high dividends as revenue  stagnates . The
phone company plans to pay a dividend of 2.17 kroner a share
 next month , bringing the total payment for last year to 4.35
kroner. The Danish company’s annual dividend amounts to about 10
percent of its current share price, more than twice the so-
called dividend yield of the Stoxx 600  Europe  Index.  While the discount on the shares was “on the low side,”
the dividend is attractive, Danske Bank analysts Poul Ernst
Jessen and Erik Strandin Pers wrote in a report today.  TDC fell  4.3 percent to 43.28 kroner at 5:06 p.m. in
Copenhagen, the biggest drop since August. That pared the market
value of the phone company to 35.7 billion kroner.  Capital Flowing  Last week, TDC reported fourth-quarter  earnings  that fell
short of analysts’ projections, with profit from continuing
operations rising to 704 million kroner. TDC has chosen to
improve its services rather than match promotions as competitors
load more bandwidth into their service offerings, Chief
Executive Officer Henrik Poulsen said in an interview then.  TDC said Feb. 3 it expects 2012 revenue to be about 26
billion kroner, which would be the fourth straight year that
sales have hovered around that level, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  TDC said in a statement yesterday that it’s suspending a
share buyback program for as much as 750 million kroner, which
had been announced Feb. 3. It intends to restart the program
once the block sale has been completed.  The rally in European stock markets may make it more
attractive for buyout firms to exit their stakes, with the
benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rising  more than 22 percent
since late September through yesterday.  UniCredit SpA’s $9.9 billion rights offer is leading
Europe’s stock sales to the best start of the year since 2007.
European companies raised a total of $14.3 billion selling
shares in the first five weeks, 16 percent more than the year-
ago period and the most in five years, Bloomberg data show.  Surging Share Sales  Additional share sales have surged recently, led by the
$1.7 billion stock offering in January from  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ,
 Spain ’s biggest oil company. Madrid-based Repsol sold the shares
to pursue an exploration drive. Abertis Infraestructuras SA,
Spain’s biggest toll-road operator, sold part of its stake in
Paris-based satellite company Eutelsat Communications SA for
about $1.2 billion.  Buyout funds managed to raise $21.4 billion last quarter, a
rebound of 34 percent from the previous quarter and up 46
percent from the fourth quarter of 2010, according to data from
the London-based research firm Preqin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  