-- Default Swaps in U.S. Fall for 1st Time in 3 Days on Greece Austerity Vote
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-02-13T18:19:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/default-swaps-in-u-s-fall-for-1st-time-in-3-days-on-greece-austerity-vote.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk declined for the first time in three days, as Greek
lawmakers approved budget cuts, paving the way to secure an
international bailout.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
decreased 1.9 basis points to a mid-price of 96.9 basis points
at 1:16 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd. Costs
to protect the debt of Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc and NXP
Semiconductors NV also fell.  Germany  and the European Commission welcomed Greek approval
of the austerity steps, raising the possibility of euro finance
chiefs approving the 130 billion-euro package for  Greece . Global
stocks and the euro rose after the Greek parliament passed the
legislation. European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters the backing “is a crucial
step forward toward the adoption of the second program.”  The swaps index, which typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates, touched 94.1
basis points on Feb. 9, the lowest level since August as
investor confidence grows that European leaders may prevent the
region’s fiscal crisis from spreading.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Swaps tied to  Cable & Wireless  declined by 311 basis points
to 476.31 basis points, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market. Vodafone Group Plc said it’s
evaluating a potential bid for the British fiber-network
operator. Contracts linked to NXP fell 64 to 560, according to
CMA. NXP, a Dutch chipmaker, is seeking as much as $475 million
of new loans to help repay notes due in October 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  