-- Deripaska Claims Cherney Bribed Politicians in London Lawsuit
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-02-13T15:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/deripaska-claims-cherney-bribed-politicians-in-london-lawsuit.html
United Co.  Rusal (486)  Chief Executive
Officer Oleg Deripaska accused  Michael Cherney , who is suing him
for $4.3 billion, of making mysterious payments to politicians
including Israel Deputy Prime Minister Avigdor Liberman.  The claims emerged at a London court hearing where
Cherney’s lawyer said accusations made by Deripaska’s legal team
were a “distraction.” The hearing indicates Deripaska, 44,
will fight Cherney’s suit by painting him as someone who used
his connections to extract protection payments from businessmen.  Claims that Cherney made “large, unexplained payments to
politicians” including Liberman and a Bulgarian prime minister
“don’t have any relationship to the facts of the case,” his
attorney, Mark Howard said.  Cherney, now living in exile in  Israel , filed a London
lawsuit in 2006 claiming he was Deripaska’s partner and is owed
a stake in Rusal. The trial, scheduled to begin in April,
follows the three-month, $6.8 billion courtroom battle between
Russian oligarchs Boris Berezovsky and Roman Abramovich.  “They say Mr. Cherney was the mastermind of the imposition
of krysha payments,” on businessmen, Howard said, referring to
a Russian word for protection. Cherney’s lawyers were seeking to
prevent some of the claims being used in the trial.  Calls and e-mails to Liberman’s office weren’t returned.
Deripaska’s spokeswoman, Idil Oyman in London, declined to
immediately comment. Cherney’s spokeswoman Georgie Gibbs didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  Judge  Andrew Smith  said the April trial may be delayed
until the parties were better prepared.  The case is Cherney v. Deripaska,  High Court  of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial Court 06-1218.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  