-- Deutsche Boerse Plans Dividend, Buyback
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-02-13T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/deutsche-boerse-posts-profit-as-exchange-plans-dividend-buyback.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , blocked from
buying NYSE Euronext by European competition regulators this
month, pledged to return capital to shareholders after posting a
fourth-quarter profit.  Deutsche Boerse  yesterday proposed paying a dividend of
3.30 euros, comprising a special dividend of 1 euro a share and
a regular dividend of 2.30 euros, and said it will spend as much
as 200 million euros on buybacks in the second half of 2012.  “It’s a nice juicy capital return, an attractive level for
this year,” said Richard Perrott, an exchange analyst at
Berenberg Bank in  London  who has a “buy” rating on the stock.
“It’s a sweetener to shareholders who will be disappointed
after the long, drawn-out, NYSE saga. The capital return is
positive as the results themselves are largely in line with
expectations.”  Fourth-quarter earnings before interest and taxes at
 Europe ’s largest  exchange  by market value was 228 million euros
($301 million), compared with a loss of 219.3 million euros a
year earlier, the Frankfurt-based company said in a statement
yesterday. Fourth-quarter revenue increased 4.4 percent to 541.4
million euros, while net income was 141.9 million euros versus a
loss of 61.2 million euros in 2010.  Both NYSE Euronext, which last week reported income that
 beat  forecasts, and Deutsche Boerse are shifting their strategy
back to expanding current operations after the European
Commission blocked their merger. Deutsche Boerse agreed to buy
its New York-based rival in a deal valued at $9.53 billion when
it was announced last February.  Moving Forward  “After the EU Commission’s decision, our view is
exclusively forward,”  Reto Francioni , chief executive officer
of the exchange, said in an e-mailed statement. “We will now
accelerate our growth strategy with an offensive on unregulated
and unsecured markets, an extension of our leadership role in
technology and market data, and by partnering further with
infrastructures and customers in growth areas and regions. Our
outlook for 2012 is positive.”  The exchange operator also said Michael Kuhn, chief
information officer, will leave the company after 23 years as it
combines its information services and market data units. Kuhn’s
contract won’t be renewed when it expires at the end of the
year, Deutsche Boerse said.  Deutsche Boerse’s costs fell to 310.8 million euros in the
fourth quarter, down 5.2 percent from a year earlier.  New System  After the  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  deal was terminated, Deutsche
Boerse said its Eurex futures exchange will move to a new
trading system in the fourth quarter this year, the first step
in the new standalone strategy. The platform is being developed
internally and will be based on one already in use at the
 International Securities Exchange , the U.S.-based options market
owned by Deutsche Boerse and Eurex.  On Feb. 1, European Union regulators vetoed a plan to
create the world’s biggest exchange, after concluding that the
merger would hurt competition.  Deutsche Boerse (DB1)  called it “a
black day for Europe and for its future competitiveness.”  The deal would have led to a “near-monopoly” in European
exchange-traded derivatives, uniting both Eurex, the region’s
largest derivatives exchange, and NYSE Euronext’s Liffe, the
second-largest. Any savings would “not be substantial enough to
outweigh the harm to customers caused by the merger,” the
European Commission said.  Deutsche Boerse’s acquisition of NYSE Euronext would have
put more than 90 percent of Europe’s exchange-traded derivatives
market and about 30 percent of  stock trading  in the hands of one
company.  The company holds a press conference in  Frankfurt  later
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  