-- Deutsche Bank Said to Settle Kirch Case for About $1 Billion
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-02-13T14:29:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/deutsche-bank-is-said-to-be-close-to-kirch-settlement-for-about-1-billion.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and the heirs of
media entrepreneur  Leo Kirch  are close to settling a 10-year-old
dispute for about 800 million euros ($1 billion), according to a
person with direct knowledge of the negotiations.  The settlement will end lawsuits over whether comments made
in 2002 by  Rolf Breuer , Deutsche Bank’s then-chief executive
officer, caused the collapse of Kirch’s media group, according
to the person, who declined to be identified because the
agreement hasn’t been made public. The bank last year was said
to have rejected a 775 million-euro settlement proposed by a
Munich court.  “The case meant negative headlines for Deutsche Bank. It
wasn’t so much of a business problem as a reputational one for
the company,” said Michael Seufert, an analyst with
Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale in Hanover who recommends
investors hold the stock. “It is advantageous for Deutsche Bank
to have this long-lasting legal process behind them.”  Kirch, who died in July, pursued lawsuits against Breuer
and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank seeking at least 3.3 billion
euros. The lawsuits, which continued after Kirch’s death, claim
his media group failed because Breuer questioned its
creditworthiness in a 2002 Bloomberg TV interview.  In the interview, Breuer said “everything that you can
read and hear” is that “the financial sector isn’t prepared to
provide further” loans or equity to Kirch. Within months,
Kirch’s group filed the country’s biggest bankruptcy since World
War II.  Management Board  Another person familiar with the talks said that Deutsche
Bank’s management board will discuss the potential settlement
today or tomorrow. Details of the agreement aren’t finalized and
there may still be obstacles in that process, the person said.  Deutsche Bank spokesman Christian Streckert and a spokesman
for Kirch both declined to comment. The bank has always denied
Kirch’s allegations.  Deutsche Bank gained 1.3 percent to 33.92 euros at 3:21
p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  Breuer last year agreed to pay 350,000 euros to settle a
criminal attempted fraud case over testimony he gave in 2003 in
one of the suits filed by Kirch.  The litigation spawned a separate criminal probe by Munich
prosecutors over testimony Breuer gave last year in another
Kirch case. Current Deutsche Bank CEO  Josef Ackermann , Chairman
 Clemens Boersig  and former board member Tessen von Heydebreck
are also under investigation over their testimony. Deutsche Bank
has denied wrongdoing by any of its executives.  The Munich Higher Regional Court, which has two related
damage suits pending before it on appeal and previously urged
the parties several times to settle, hasn’t received any
information on a proposed agreement, court spokesman Wilhelm
Schneider said in an interview.  Bild Zeitung reported the potential settlement earlier
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  