-- DirectBuy in Talks With Bondholders Over Debt Restructuring
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-02-13T22:53:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/directbuy-in-talks-with-bondholders-over-debt-restructuring-1-.html
DirectBuy Holdings Inc. is
negotiating with a committee that includes a “substantial
majority” of investors in its $335 million of senior bonds to
restructure the consumer club’s balance sheet.  DirectBuy missed a Feb. 1 interest payment on the notes,
taking advantage of a 30-day grace period because of the
“productive nature” of the discussions, Mike Georgeff, a
spokesman for the company said today in an e-mail.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the debt to D from CC today,
saying in a statement that the Merrillville, Indiana-based
consumer club is “highly unlikely” to make the payment within
the 30-day grace period allowed under the terms of the bonds.
Investors will probably recover 10 percent to 30 percent of the
debt’s face value, S&P analysts Helena Song and Andy Sookram
wrote in the report. A grade of D indicates an obligation “is
in payment default,” according to S&P’s definitions.  “This missed payment does not constitute a default of any
kind at this time, nor does it have any impact on the company’s
operations,” Georgeff said in the e-mail.  The 12 percent notes, issued in a private offering led by
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in January 2011, were quoted today at a
mid-price of 21.5 cents on the dollar, according to a person
with knowledge of market prices for the debt. DirectBuy sold the
debt at 97 cents, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Moody’s Investors Service cut its grade on DirectBuy to
Caa3 on Dec. 2 after the company defaulted on a financial
covenant tied to its bank credit line, received a going concern
opinion from its auditors and hired an adviser for a debt
restructuring, analysts Charles O’Shea and Kendra Smith wrote in
a statement.  Song and Sookram of S&P didn’t immediately return calls
seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  