-- DLF Declines After Profit Misses Estimates on Lower Sales: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-02-13T05:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/dlf-declines-after-profit-misses-estimates-on-drop-in-sales-mumbai-mover.html
DLF Ltd. (DLFU) ,  India ’s biggest developer,
dropped the most in three months in Mumbai trading after
reporting third-quarter profit that missed analyst estimates on
lower sales and a jump in financing costs.  DLF declined as much as 5.4 percent to 218.50 rupees, the
most since Nov. 15, and traded 2.7 percent lower at 224.70 as of
11:02 a.m. local time.  Net income  slid 45 percent to 2.58 billion rupees ($52
million) in the three months ended Dec. 31 from 4.66 billion
rupees a year earlier, the company said in a statement on Feb.
10. That compared with the 3.92 billion rupee median of 25
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales fell 18 percent
to 20.34 billion rupees, the New Delhi-based DLF said.  “We expect fourth-quarter reported earnings to be weak
driven by lower sales and one-time cost adjustments (resulting
in lower margins),” Sandeep Mathew, an analyst at Credit Suisse
Group AG who maintained his “underperform” rating on the stock,
said in a note today. “We believe lack of new launches remains
a drag on reported earnings.”  DLF’s credit rating was downgraded in December by Crisil
Ltd., the Indian unit of  Standard & Poor’s , after its
liabilities excluding cash climbed to a record high of 242.7
billion rupees in the three months ended Sept. 30, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  “We have suffered on the operating side because of the
difficult macro conditions specifically the high interest rate
regime,” Saurabh Chawla, DLF’s executive director of finance,
said on a conference call with analysts on Feb. 11. “These
conditions are not going to abate anytime soon, so we have given
a cautious outlook over the next couple of quarters.”  Asset Sale  The company is committed to its target of raising 60
billion rupees to 70 billion rupees from non-strategic asset
divestment in the next three years to reduce debt, DLF said in
response to the downgrade by Crisil. DLF and its joint venture
partner Hubtown Ltd. completed the sale of a property in
December in the western Indian city of Pune to a unit of
Blackstone Group LP for 8.1 billion rupees.  Mathew at Credit Suisse said he’s “skeptical” about the
divestment plans because of “issues” linked to assets for sale.  DLF spent 6.19 billion rupees on financing charges last
quarter, 45 percent higher than in the same period in the
previous year, according to a statement on Feb. 10.  “Operationally the company remains negative free  cash flow ;
this is likely to be the main overhang on the stock,” Saurabh Kumar, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said in a report
yesterday. “Until visibility firms up on large ticket asset
sales, stock re-rating may be under check.”  DLF also said the Income Tax department has levied a demand
for additional tax of 11.37 billion rupees, mostly as a
disallowance of special economic zone profit. The company hasn’t
made any provision for the payment as it is “confident that
additional tax so demanded will not be sustained on completion
of the appellate proceedings,” DLF said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  