-- Draghi’s $158 Billion Free Lunch for European Banks Seen Boosting Profits
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-02-13T14:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/draghi-158b-free-lunch-boosts-bank-profits.html
Banks are benefiting from a European
Central Bank subsidy that could reach 120 billion euros ($158
billion), enough to pay every bonus at financial firms in  London 
for the next 24 years at today’s levels.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and
Societe Generale SA are among more than 500 banks that took 489
billion euros of three-year loans from the Frankfurt-based ECB
at a December auction. The loans currently carry a 1 percent
annual interest rate, less than a quarter of the 4.3 percent
average yield on euro-denominated senior unsecured bank debt of
all maturities in the past year, according to Commerzbank AG.  With borrowing estimated to hit a record 1.2 trillion euros
after a second auction later this month, banks may save 120
billion euros over three years. That could boost 2012 profit by
about 10 percent for lenders in Italy and Spain, according to
estimates by Morgan Stanley.  “This is very much a free lunch,” said Arnd Schaefer, an
economist at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,  Germany . “Banks can get
money for just 1 percent and then lend it on for much more.
That’s pretty good.”  The ECB is flooding the banking system with cheap money in
a bid to avert a credit crunch after the market for unsecured
bank debt seized up last year and funding from U.S. money
markets disappeared. Any bank in the region can borrow an
unlimited amount, provided it pledges eligible collateral.
Lenders won’t face curbs on bonuses or dividends.  ‘Cheap Money’  “The central bank has pumped the market with unbelievably
cheap money because wholesale markets are closed,” said Richard Reid, director of research at lobby group International Centre
for Financial Regulation in London and a former managing
director at Citigroup Inc. “Stronger banks will inevitably
profit, but that is a secondary issue for the ECB.”  Niels Buenemann, an ECB spokesman, declined to comment.  The  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index 
rose 1.1 percent to 86.56 by 2:15 p.m. in London.  RBS (RBS)  rose 1
percent to 28.19 pence, while BNP Paribas slid 1.4 percent to
34.58 euros. The benchmark has rallied 20 percent since the ECB
announced the first round of loans on Dec. 8.  Banks are required under rules approved by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision to hold capital against any
assets they pledge as collateral in exchange for the ECB loans,
pushing the cost of participating above 1 percent, Guy Mandy, a
London-based Nomura Holdings Inc. analyst, said in a Jan. 24
note. Assets are subject to so-called haircuts depending on how
risky they’re perceived to be. That affects how much cash
lenders will receive against the value of the assets.  Second Auction  A bank that pledges a book of loans with a five-year
maturity subject to a 29 percent reduction in value would face
an “all-in” cost of about 2.5 percent a year, Mandy said.  Lenders could take 680 billion euros of loans at the second
auction on Feb. 29, according to a Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
survey of investors published last week. That would raise total
borrowings from the ECB’s longer-term refinancing operation, or
LTRO, to a record 1.2 trillion euros, surpassing the $1.2
trillion in peak lending by the  Federal Reserve  to U.S. banks
after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse.  Banks including Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Goldman Sachs reaped an estimated $13 billion by borrowing
cheaply from the Fed and lending at a higher rate, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg from central bank records of
transactions obtained by court order and under the Freedom of
Information Act. That figure, based on the lending margins of
190 banks that borrowed from the Fed, isn’t comparable to the
estimate of the ECB subsidy.  ‘Money-Making Opportunity’  “You are certainly going to get banks that don’t need the
funds profiting,” said Richard Werner, an economist at the
University of Southampton,  England . “It would be much cheaper
to target support for the 20 or so banks that need it, but
politically the central bank wants to be seen to be neutral. It
is a massive money-making opportunity for those who don’t need
it to play the yield curve.”  European lenders are being encouraged by policy makers to
use the ECB cash to purchase domestic sovereign debt, pushing
down borrowing costs for governments and reducing the risk that
one or more countries in the region default.  An Italian bank could borrow 1 billion euros from the ECB
at 1 percent and use the proceeds to purchase three-year Italian
bonds yielding about 3.60 percent. That so-called carry trade
could boost income by 26 million euros a year.  ‘A Masterstroke’  Short-dated securities issued by southern European
countries have rallied since the ECB announced the offer Dec. 8.
Yields on two-year Spanish notes have fallen 229 basis points to
2.68 percent, while their Italian equivalents dropped 320 basis
points to 2.95 percent. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Longer-dated securities underperformed shorter-duration
notes on concern that austerity plans won’t plug deficits and
reduce  Europe ’s debt load. Ten-year Spanish bond yields have
fallen 95 basis points to 5.17 percent, while their Italian
counterparts have dropped 146 basis points to 5.46 percent.  “In many ways this has been a masterstroke,” said Charles Goodhart, a London School of Economics professor and a former
 Bank of England  policy maker. “People have been asking the ECB
to implement quantitative easing on a large scale without
invoking the wrath of the Germans and provoking statements about
helping undeserving southern Europeans. This is it.”  Some banks, rather than heed calls by politicians to boost
lending to companies and consumers, are choosing to deposit the
money in the ECB’s  overnight facility  at a rate of 0.25 percent
until they need it to refinance maturing debt. While that’s
costing them 0.75 percent, it’s still a saving on the potential
expense of issuing bonds to private investors.  Refinancing Debt  Euro-area banks need to refinance more than 600 billion
euros of debt maturing in 2012, the Bank of England said in its
December financial-stability report.  Just 4 percent of investors polled by Goldman Sachs said
they thought the proceeds would be used to increase lending to
customers, compared with 56 percent who said it would be used to
refinance maturing debt and 26 percent who said it would be
invested in sovereign bonds.  Deposits with the central bank rose to a record 528 billion
euros on Jan. 17 and were at 508 billion euros at the end of
last week, according to ECB data released today. European
lenders deposited an average of about 280 million euros with the
ECB in the eight years before Lehman’s collapse.  Capital Reserve  Banks also are cutting lending outside their home markets,
 data  compiled by the Bank for International Settlements show.
Euro-area banks reduced lending to  Asia  by 9 percent and to
central and Eastern Europe by 8 percent in the third quarter.  “Since the LTRO is an ECB operation, it is reasonable to
expect the funds created to be used in a way that benefits the
public,” Greg Ford, a London-based spokesman for lobby group
 Finance Watch , said in an e-mail. “One way to ensure this is to
insist that banks retain the profits they make from the LTRO
carry trade to build higher capital reserves.”  The 489 billion euros borrowed from the ECB in December
exceeded economists’ median estimate by 66 percent. Demand may
be higher at the second auction because any stigma associated
with using the facility has dissipated and the list of assets
banks can pledge as collateral for the loans has widened,
according to William Porter, an analyst for Credit Suisse Group
AG in London.  ‘No Stigma’  The ECB is encouraging all banks to participate in the
second auction.  “There is no stigma whatsoever on these facilities,” ECB
President Mario Draghi said in  Frankfurt  on Feb. 9. “The use of
these proceeds is a business decision. Our primary interest is
in lending to the real economy.”  If total borrowing from the two auctions hits 1.2 trillion
euros, banks will pay about 12 billion euros a year in interest
at the current benchmark rate of 1 percent. The same amount
borrowed in the senior unsecured  bond market  would cost about 52
billion euros a year, based on Commerzbank data showing a 4.3
percent average yield on such debt over the past 12 months. That
represents a saving of 120 billion euros over three years.  Bank bonuses in the City of London  will be  about 5.1
billion euros for 2011, according to the Centre for Economic and
Business Research.  The ECB can’t limit the loans to particular banks because
that would risk violating European Union state-aid rules, said
Neil Smith, an analyst at WestLB.  “If the ECB started singling out individual banks for
special treatment, you could be getting into complicated
competitive distortion issues,” Smith said.  Boosting Profit  RBS, which received 45.5 billion pounds ($72 billion) in a
U.K. government rescue at the height of the financial crisis,
borrowed 5 billion pounds from the ECB in December, a person
with knowledge of the matter said. It will pay interest of 50
million pounds a year compared with 215 million pounds if it had
borrowed at the average yield on senior unsecured bank debt
denominated in euros in the past year. That represents a saving
of 495 million pounds over the three-year life of the loan.  Linda Harper , a banks spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Italy’s second-biggest bank, took 12
billion euros from the ECB in December and expects to
participate in the February auction, Chief Executive Officer
Enrico Tommaso Cucchiani, 61, told reporters in Milan on Feb. 7.
The loans were “essential for some banks” and “useful for
other banks, including Intesa,” Cucchiani said.  Spanish Banks  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank, borrowed 12.5 billion
euros from the ECB, while Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA
got 10 billion euros, according to a Jan. 18 Morgan Stanley note
based on conversations with the lenders. The ECB funds may
increase Italian banks’ earnings by as much as 10 percent this
year and 30 percent in 2013, according to Morgan Stanley.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-biggest
lender, said it borrowed 11 billion euros in December. No
decision has been reached on whether it will participate in the
February auction,  Paul Tobin , a spokesman for the bank, said.  Madrid-based Banco Popular Espanol SA took 8.5 billion
euros at the LTRO, taking their total loans from the ECB to
about 30 billion euros, Chief Financial Officer Jacobo Gonzalez- Robatto said on Feb. 1.  Bankinter SA (BKT)  borrowed 5 billion euros,
according to Morgan Stanley.  The loans could boost operating profit before provisions at
Spanish lenders by 6 percent to 12 percent, Morgan Stanley said.  French banks didn’t disclose how much they borrowed in the
first auction. The LTRO will enable  Societe Generale (GLE) , BNP
Paribas and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  to cover their borrowing needs
for 2012 -- a combined 47 billion euros -- and boost profit,
according to a Jan. 27 note from Delphine Lee, an analyst at
JPMorgan in Paris.  Intesa, Lloyds  Spokesmen for Credit Agricole, Societe Generale, BNP
Paribas and UniCredit declined to comment. Bankinter and Banca
Monte dei Paschi didn’t return calls seeking comment.  Since the ECB announced its long-term lending program,
yields on European bank debt have tumbled and the market for
senior unsecured debt has reopened. BBVA sold 2 billion euros of
18-month notes on Feb. 7 yielding 3.1 percent or 193 basis
points more than the mid-swap rate.  Intesa sold 1.5 billion euros of 18-month senior unsecured
bonds last month with a yield of about 4.1 percent or 295 basis
points more than the mid-swap rate.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,
based in London, raised 1.5 billion euros from a five-year
offering Jan. 26. It priced the bonds to yield 4.1 percent or
305 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate.  “This is an attempt to solve a crisis and bring about
financial stability.” Goodhart said. “If one of the side
effects is some jam on top for a handful of well-run firms, that
is a small price to pay.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  