-- Drake & Scull Gains as Net Income Beats Estimates: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-02-13T11:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/drake-scull-gains-as-net-income-beats-estimates-dubai-mover.html
Drake & Scull International PJSC 
rose after full-year profit beat analysts’ estimates and the
company set up a unit to benefit from railway projects in the
Middle East.  The shares  gained 1.2 percent to 97 fils, the highest since
Feb. 9, at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The stock has advanced 23
percent this year compared with a 12 percent increase in the
benchmark  DFM General Index. (DFMGI)   Full-year profit climbed 36 percent to 220 million dirhams
($60 million), while revenue rose 68 percent to 3.1 billion
dirhams, the Dubai-based construction company said in a
 statement . The mean estimate of 13 analysts was for a profit of
207 million dirhams, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Revenue and earnings came in significantly ahead of
consensus,” said analyst Jan Pawel Hasman at EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE, who has a “buy” rating on the stock. “Net margin looks
much stronger than usual at 7.4 percent in the fourth-quarter
compared with 6.9 percent in the previous quarter, which could
imply stronger than expected non-operating income.”  Drake & Scull has been expanding across the  Middle East  and
North Africa since 2008 as the crisis in Dubai’s property caused
orders to drop in its home market. By setting up a rail
division, the company stands to benefit from contracts valued at
more than $100 billion in markets such as  Abu Dhabi  and Qatar as
the region establishes alternative trade links to the sea.  Drake & Scull’s order backlog surged 43 percent last year
to 7.1 billion dirhams, the company said. The value of projects
it was awarded rose 29 percent to 4.4 billion dirhams.  “Our aim in 2012 is to sustain our growth in the Middle
East and North Africa region and to pursue our expansion plan in
 Asia ,” Chief Executive Officer Khaldoun Tabari said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  