-- Drugmaker Rebates Would Rise $156B in Obama Budget
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-02-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/drugmaker-rebates-would-rise-by-156-billion-over-10-years-in-obama-budget.html
President  Barack Obama ’s budget plan
would trim spending on federal health programs at the expense of
drugmakers, hospitals and nursing homes while seeking nearly $1
billion for carrying out the 2010 health-care law.  The fiscal 2013 blueprint, released yesterday, contains a
package of changes to Medicare, the U.S. health insurance
program for the elderly and disabled, and Medicaid, the health
plan for the poor that would help save $362 billion over a
decade to slow medical spending.  Drug companies led by  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  would have to provide
$156 billion in discounts over the next decade for medicines
sold to low-income senior citizens, on top of $80 billion in
discounts and rebates the industry agreed to help fund the cost
of the health-care overhaul.  Because Medicare and Medicaid have different payment
programs, Medicare is “receiving significantly lower rebates
and paying higher prices than Medicaid” for drugs, the
administration said in budget documents.  Obama’s proposals are unlikely to become law unless they’re
included in legislation to raise the government’s debt limit,
said Joe Antos, a health economist at the  American Enterprise
Institute , a nonprofit research group in Washington.  “Anything that has a policy significance is simply not
going to go anywhere this year,” he said by phone. “All of
these ideas and others will be on the table in early 2013 when
the debt limit has to be raised again.”  Job Losses Forecast  The rebates proposed yesterday may cause hundreds of
thousands of jobs to be lost, said John Castellani, president
and CEO of the  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of
America , a Washington trade group that represents the industry.  The budget would “weaken our ability to innovate and
create jobs,” Castellani said in a statement. The spending plan
“should not be considered,” he said. New York-based Pfizer,
the world’s largest drug maker by market value, had no comment,
said  Peter O’Toole , a spokesman.  Brand-name drug manufacturers already provide rebates worth
at least 15 percent the price of their medicines to Medicaid.
The administration is proposing to extend that policy to cover
so-called “dual eligibles,” about 9 million senior citizens
who qualify for both Medicare and Medicaid.  A 2003 law written by congressional Republicans shifted
drug coverage for dual eligibles from Medicaid to Medicare plans
administered by private insurers.  The  drug industry  successfully fought efforts by House
Democrats under then-Speaker  Nancy Pelosi  of  California  to
require rebates for dual eligibles in the 2010 health-care
overhaul.  Hospital Payment Cuts  Under Obama’s budget, Medicare spending would increase by
$45 billion in fiscal 2013, to $523 billion. The administration
proposed raising premiums on wealthier senior citizens beginning
in 2017 to save $28 billion through 2022. The budget also would
cut payments to long-term care hospitals such as those run by
 Kindred Healthcare Inc. (KND)  and to nursing homes, saving about $63
billion over a decade.  Payments to the facilities “in excess of the costs of
providing high quality and efficient care place a drain on
Medicare,” the administration said in budget documents.  Long-term care hospitals and nursing homes are trying to
improve the quality of care and “remove costs out of the
system” through such measures as reducing re-admissions, said
Mark Parkinson, the president and chief executive officer of the
 American Health Care Association , a Washington trade group.  Approach Criticized  “We shouldn’t have an approach focused solely on cuts,”
he said in a statement. Obama’s budget “reflects that singular
direction,” he said, and “is tantamount to cutting Medicare
benefits.”  Susan Moss, a spokeswoman for Louisville, Kentucky-based
Kindred, didn’t return a phone message.  There’s probably “room for some efficiencies” in payments
to long-term care providers, said Antos, who advises the
 Congressional Budget Office  on health issues. Cuts that are too
deep could hurt access to care, he said.  “If they’re big enough and sustained long enough, they
absolutely will have an impact that everyone’s mother will
know,” he said.  The budget requests about $1 billion more in 2013 for the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the agency that runs
the two U.S. entitlement programs and also oversees most of the
implementation of the 2010 health-care law.  Building An Exchange  About $864 million of the increase would go toward enacting
the health law, said  Marilyn Tavenner , acting administrator of
the Medicare agency. Her agency must build a federal health
insurance exchange, or marketplace, where people will be able to
purchase coverage if it’s not provided through their jobs.  The agency also has to help states that are choosing to
build their own exchanges. The state-based markets would sell
individual policies while the U.S. identifies people eligible
for subsidies to help them buy coverage.  Republicans who control the U.S. House have said they will
not appropriate money to implement the health-care law. The
administration intends to move forward regardless, using money
provided by the law or diverted from other programs, officials
said.  “We will always meet the statutory directive to have
exchanges available in states that don’t do it by 2014,” said
 Steve Larsen , director of the Center for Consumer Information
and Insurance Oversight, the office in Tavenner’s agency
responsible for exchanges. The government “will work with
existing, available funding sources” if Congress doesn’t
appropriate additional money, he said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  