-- Ducati Owner Said to Mull Sale or H.K. IPO
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-02-13T23:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/ducati-owner-said-to-mull-sale-or-hong-kong-ipo-as-soon-as-3q.html
Ducati Motor Holding SpA’s private-
equity owner may hold an initial public offering of the luxury-
motorcycle maker in Hong Kong this year or sell it to a rival,
according to two people familiar with the plans.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  may manage
the IPO of the company, which could file as soon as June, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the
preparations are private.  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  may also help with
the IPO, one person said.  Investindustrial SpA, the Milan-based private-equity firm
that owns Ducati, is also considering a sale of the company to
an industrial partner, which may fetch 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) with debt, one person said.  Ducati, whose bikes are owned by actors such as Brad Pitt
and  Tom Cruise , was delisted in 2008 from the Milan stock
exchange.  Companies in Europe and the U.S. are interested in the
motorcycle maker, Andrea Bonomi, chairman of Investindustrial,
told the Financial Times in an interview published on Feb. 12.  Germany’s  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG are
among possible buyers, the newspaper said, citing unidentified
people close to the situation. The motorcycle maker might also
be a good fit for  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) , the people familiar with
the matter said.  BMW isn’t “currently” interested in buying Ducati,
Alexander Bilgeri, a spokesman for the Munich-based company,
said yesterday by phone. Michael Brendel, a VW spokesman,
declined to comment on the matter.  Spokesmen for Deutsche Bank and Intesa Sanpaolo also
declined to comment. A spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs wasn’t
immediately available outside of normal working hours. Maripat
Blankenheim, a spokeswoman for Harley-Davidson, said the company
doesn’t comment on rumor or speculation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  