-- The Wall Street Bombing That Made Hoover and the FBI: Tim Weiner
-- B y   T i m   W e i n e r
-- 2012-02-13T00:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/the-wall-street-bombing-that-made-hoover-and-the-fbi-tim-weiner.html
Shortly after noon on Thursday, Sept.
16, 1920, a powerful bomb hidden in a horse-drawn wagon exploded
at the corner of Wall and Broad Streets in  Manhattan . It was a
pleasant late-summer day, and throngs of people had been out
enjoying a lunchtime stroll, a brief respite from the great
money machine, the center of American capitalism.  Now blood ran in the streets where the first  U.S. Congress 
had convened and the Bill of Rights became law.  Shrapnel scarred the walls and shattered the windows of
J.P. Morgan and Co., America’s most formidable bank. The bomb
killed at least 38 people and injured roughly 400. It was the
deadliest terrorist attack in U.S. history, a distinction it
held for 75 years. Its force reverberates today.  In Washington at that hour, J. Edgar Hoover, 25 years old,
was putting the finishing touches on the federal government’s
first counterterrorist force, the General Intelligence Division.
Hoover wrote that he intended to combat “not only the radical
activities in the  United States ” but also those “of an
international nature”; not only radical politics, but “economic
and industrial disturbances” as well.  He said the government could not handle “the radical
situation from a criminal prosecution standpoint.” The law was
too weak a force to protect the country. He believed the U.S.
needed a new weapon to fight communists, anarchists and the
forces he later called “red fascism.” Only secret intelligence
and countersubversion could detect and disrupt the threat from
the left and protect America from attack.  Hoover had been fighting the threat since joining the
Justice Department during World War I. His war never ended.  Mass Arrests  He had already led the biggest mass arrests ever seen in
the U.S. In a nationwide sweep during the first weeks of 1920,
his agents had jailed at least 6,000 suspected subversives. His
men broke into political meetings, private homes, social clubs,
dance halls, restaurants and saloons across the country, rarely
bothering with search warrants. Hoover worked around the clock,
answering the telephones and reading the telegrams as his squads
checked in.  He had prepared a report to Congress claiming the raids had
resulted in “the wrecking of the communist parties in this
country” -- a premature boast. By the time the courts got
through with the detainees, roughly nine out of 10 were set
free. Hoover had set out to remove the radical left from the
American landscape, and he had fallen short.  The Wall Street attack in late summer followed a barrage of
mail and suitcase bombs that had struck fear across America.
Although not one of them killed its intended victims, the hit
list was breathtaking: Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer and Judge Kenesaw
Mountain Landis, who had overseen more than 100 Espionage Act
convictions. Five members of Congress were also marked for
death, as were the secretary of labor, the mayor and police
commissioner of  New York  City, and  John D. Rockefeller  and J.P. Morgan, the nation’s most powerful bankers.  Hoover came to suspect that a gang of Italian anarchists
was responsible for both the targeted attacks and the Wall
Street bombing. But he was never able to prove it. In 1921,
after he had been promoted to the No. 2 job at the FBI, his new
boss, William J. Burns, proclaimed that  Vladimir Lenin  and the
Soviet Politburo had carried out the attacks. It was an empty
charge.  By the time President Warren Harding died two years later,
the FBI had fallen so far into corruption and ineptitude that
the chief of the Criminal Division of the  Justice Department 
argued it should be disbanded. President  Calvin Coolidge ’s new
attorney general, Harlan Fiske Stone, found the bureau “in
exceedingly bad odor,” and noted that many of its agents had
criminal records and “engaged in many practices which are brutal
and tyrannical in the extreme.”  Secret Police Warning  In May 1924, Stone fired the FBI director and issued a
statement whose power resounds to this day. “A secret police
system may become a menace to free government and free
institutions because it carries with it the possibility of
abuses of power which are not always quickly comprehended or
understood,” Stone wrote. “The Bureau of Investigation is not
concerned with political or other opinions of individuals. It is
only concerned with their conduct and then only with such
conduct as is forbidden by the laws of the United States. When a
police system passes beyond these limits, it is dangerous to the
proper administration of justice and to human liberty, which
should be our first concern to cherish. Within them it should
rightly be a terror to the wrongdoer.”  The next day, Stone summoned Hoover, not yet 30 years old,
his hair slicked back, neck straining at his shirt collar, and
told him he would become the FBI director on one condition: The
bureau was out of the spy business. Hoover looked up to the 6-
foot-4 Stone and said yes, sir.  Stone remained attorney general for nine months before
ascending to the  Supreme Court . Hoover lasted in his job for 48
years. In that time, he never lost faith that the fate of the
nation lay with him and his work. And he never stopped spying.  With the terrible patience that became his trademark,
Hoover methodically built his disreputable force into an
American institution. Within a decade, it was famous as the
nation’s foremost pillar of the law. In secret it became
America’s most powerful intelligence service.  In August 1936, President  Franklin D. Roosevelt  invited
Hoover to the White House to talk about the threats of fascism
and communism. The director was mainly concerned about the Reds.
He warned the president that communists were taking over the
longshoremen’s union on the West Coast, that they had designs on
the United Mine Workers union and the nation’s supply of coal,
and that they had great sway over the  Newspaper Guild . “I told
him,” Hoover recorded, “that the communists planned to get
control of these three groups and by doing so they would be able
to paralyze the country.”  Special Authority  Hoover then told the president that the FBI needed the
power to conduct secret intelligence operations. Nothing was put
in writing, but without question Roosevelt gave Hoover an open-
ended order to attack America’s enemies, foreign and domestic.
Hoover cited that authority until the day he died. It remains in
force today.  Today millions of Americans know Hoover only as a
caricature: a tyrant in a tutu, a cross-dressing crank. But his
secret intelligence files, newly opened, show how, in the
darkest days of the  Cold War , he spied directly on the leaders
of the  Soviet Union  and  China , sent detailed intelligence
warnings of suicidal airborne attacks by Moscow against New York
and  Washington , and controlled a coup against a democratically
elected foreign leader in the Caribbean.  Hoover was not a monster, but an American Machiavelli.
Astute and cunning, in 55 years he never stopped watching his
enemies, and he was a masterful manipulator of public opinion.  Walk to the corner of Wall and Broad Streets today, and you
can run your hands over the deep gouges left by the 1920
bombing. You will have to look harder to see the cameras that
track your steps -- a 21st-century tribute to Hoover, the
architect of the modern surveillance state. Every fingerprint on
file, every byte of biographic and biometric data in the
computer banks of the government, owes its origins to him.  Today, the bureau’s leaders are far more attuned to civil
liberties and the rule of law. But as the instructors at the FBI
academy told thousands of agents-in-training back in Hoover’s
day, an institution is the lengthened shadow of one man. He has
been dead 40 years, but he still shadows us.  (Tim Weiner, a former reporter for the New York Times, is
the author of “ Legacy of Ashes: The History of the CIA .” This
article is adapted from his new book, “ Enemies: A History of the
FBI ,” to be published Feb. 14 by  Random House . The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Tim Weiner at  tiwein@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 