-- East Europe Cold Sparks Avalanche, Power Cuts as Ukraine Predicts Thaw
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   B e k i m   G r e i c e v c i
-- 2012-02-13T13:53:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/east-europe-cold-snap-sparks-avalanche-electricity-cuts-as-thaw-predicted.html
Eastern  Europe  suffered a fatal
avalanche and power cuts amid snowfall and chilling temperatures
as Ukraine predicted the worst of the freezing weather that’s
killed hundreds in the region may have passed.  A five-year-old girl was the only survivor from a family of
nine after an avalanche fell on two adjacent homes in southern
 Kosovo  Feb. 10. Serbia cut electricity supplies to non-essential
industries, while temperatures as low as minus 36.5 degrees
Celsius (minus 33.7 degrees Fahrenheit) disrupted the  Czech
Republic ’s power grid and Croatian islands lost power.  Eastern Europe has been hit by cold Siberian air from the
north, while the southern Balkans countries have suffered from
above-normal snowfall. Czech forecasters said temperatures may
rise to zero by mid-week, while Ukraine said conditions would
begin to ease tomorrow in signs the cold snap may be coming to
an end.  “Ukraine has survived the coldest period of winter this
year,” Mykola Kulbida, head of the country’s weather center,
said today in a statement on the Emergency Ministry website.
Temperatures may reach as high as minus 6 Celsius tomorrow and
minus 1 Celsius by Feb. 17, while snowfall will be heavy, he
predicted.  At least 112 people have died in Ukraine since Jan. 27,
while 3,360 have been hospitalized with frostbite, the Health
Ministry said today on its website. A boiler exploded in the
city of Feodosiya, 877 kilometers (545 miles) south of  Kiev ,
cutting heating supplies to 25 five-floor apartment buildings, a
school and a kindergarten.  Balkan Snow  The child who survived the avalanche in Kosovo was found by
rescuers in the arms of her mother who died when the snow and
ice crushed the two houses, killing both parents and seven
relatives, the  Beta  news agency reported. All schools in Kosovo
are closed through Feb. 20.  In northern  Montenegro , a 55-year-old man died from a
suspected heart attack after a train got stuck in snow-covered
mountains, forcing passengers to wait more than 30 hours to be
evacuated, the Tanjug news agency reported.  Several islands in  Croatia  lost power because of gale-force
winds after snow blanketed the country over the weekend,
according to the HINA  news agency . Croatian ice breakers are
clearing the Drava river to ensure the passage of ships.  ‘Conditions to Ease’  “The temperatures will continue to dip to minus 20 Celsius
(minus 4 Fahrenheit) tonight, but there will be no new snow,”
meteorologist Kristijan Bozarov said today in a phone interview
from Zagreb, the Croatian capital. “We expect the extreme
winter conditions to ease from the middle of this week.”  Elektroprivreda Srbije , Serbia’s power monopoly, said today
in an e-mailed statement that it cut off electricity to non-
essential industrial consumers over the weekend to stabilize the
grid. The outages enabled supplies to households to continue, it
said, reiterating calls for all consumers to save energy.  Serbia ’s government has extended a Feb. 15-16 national
holiday to Feb. 17 as part of efforts to lower electricity
consumption and reduce the traffic amid snow drifts. Schools are
in the second week of an unplanned break on advice from the
Education Ministry.  Six people have died since yesterday in  Romania  because of
freezing temperatures, bringing the death toll to 74 in the last
two weeks, the Health Ministry said today in an e-mailed
statement. More than 200 people have been treated for cold-
related injuries.  Ships Stranded  More than 100 schools and kindergartens were shut today
across the country, Romania’s Education Ministry said in a
statement on its website.  The Romanian section of the Danube river was closed as
icebreakers work to free five stranded ships, while about 10
national roads and motorways were closed because of heavy
snowfall and blizzards, the Transport Ministry said today.  Hungary sent four icebreakers to the Serbian-Croatian part
of the Danube at the weekend to prevent ice from forming and
causing flooding, according to the National Water Management
Directorate.  Police listed 11 deaths in  Poland  from cold and exposure on
Feb. 11-12, down from 16 the previous weekend. Temperatures in
Warsaw tomorrow will be as low as minus 10 Celsius, compared
with minus 9 Celsius today, according to CustomWeather Inc.
data.  Tbilisi, the Georgian capital, has arranged shelters for
the city’s homeless, mayor Gigi Ugulava told reporters today.  Moscow children in the first through fourth grades were
given permission to skip school today because of temperatures as
low as minus 30 Celsius, RIA Novosti reported Feb. 12, citing
Alexander Gavrilov, head of Moscow’s education department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net 
Bekim Greicevci in Pristina at 
 bgreicevci@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net 
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  