-- Obama Budget Calls for Cuts in Spending for U.S. Technology
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-02-13T22:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/technology-spending-shrinks-in-obama-budget-as-deficit-reduction-promoted.html
U.S. government spending on
 information technology  would decline 1.2 percent next fiscal
year under a budget proposal from President  Barack Obama  seeking
to balance investments with  deficit reduction .  The technology budget released today calls for $78.9
billion in spending next year, led by Defense Department
reductions, as the administration promotes savings and
efficiencies in federal-data programs. It’s part of a $3.8
trillion election-year budget plan sent to Congress.  “By doing more with less, the administration is driving
savings across government and using those savings to reinvest in
information technology and services that benefit the American
people,” Obama said in a message accompanying the proposed
budget for fiscal 2013, the year starting Oct. 1.  The Obama administration has been trying to hold federal IT
spending steady while increasing government efficiency through
the use of cloud computing and mobile devices. Information-
technology expenditures rose 7.1 percent a year on average from
2001 to 2009 and “has effectively been halted” with no growth
from 2009 to 2013, according to the budget.  Information-technology spending includes purchasing
computers, protecting government data, updating websites and
hiring employees who provide technical support. The reduced
expenditures in 2013 will be driven by cutting the Pentagon’s
information technology investments 3.6 percent to $37.2 billion
next fiscal year, according to the budget.  ‘Hot Areas’  Spending on information technology by major civilian
agencies will increase 1.1 percent to $41.7 billion, the budget
shows.  The budget plan demonstrates a commitment to initiatives in
progress, which is good news for companies specializing in
information technology products and services, said Alan Balutis,
director of the Internet Business Solutions Group for  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) , based in  San Jose ,  California .  “The hot areas will be cloud computing, data-center
consolidation, cybersecurity and mobile technology,” Balutis
said in an interview. He served as chief information officer for
the Commerce Department from 1995 to 2000 during the
administration of President  Bill Clinton .  Technology has largely stayed above the political fray
heading into this year’s elections, Balutis said. Politicians
generally haven’t attacked the idea of using technology to
improve government services or a reliance on companies for
services such as cloud computing, he said.  Innovation Focus  “There’s a growing bipartisan recognition that technology
is the vehicle that allows you to transform the way the
government does business,” he said.  TechAmerica , a trade association in Washington, considers
the spending proposal to be a “significant commitment” in the
budget to technology as total IT spending would be decreased,
Trey Hodgkins, the group’s senior vice president for national
security and federal procurement policy, said in an e-mail.  “This budget focuses on leveraging technology to increase
efficiencies and savings,” he said. “While federal IT spending
is going down, innovation in the federal government is going up.
This is a very positive thing.”  The association represents companies including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
 Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  Industry
executives said they plan to review the budget to understand
specific IT cuts or spending increases.  More Cloud Computing  The administration seeks to shift more federal applications
to cloud-computing networks operated by contractors, a move
aimed at saving money. The cloud is a Web-based pool of shared
computing resources such as software and data storage.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and IBM are
among companies competing for U.S. cloud-computing contracts.  Forty services have moved to the cloud while another 79 are
scheduled for transition by June 2012, according to the budget.
More than 50 legacy systems have been eliminated.  “The adoption of cloud solutions has eliminated
duplicative systems, while also integrating new levels of
security, reliability, and functionality, to include
collaboration, virtual meetings, and other innovations,”
according to the administration’s budget.  The administration began the  Federal Risk and Authorization
Management Program  in December to give U.S. agencies a one-stop
shop when it comes to minimum security requirements and
contracting language for cloud computing.  Spending Curbs  “The federal government spends hundreds of millions of
dollars a year securing the use of IT systems in a duplicative,
inconsistent, and time-consuming manner,” according to the
budget.  The White House also plans to curb IT spending by shrinking
the number of the data centers used by agencies to store large
amounts of information.  The U.S. government expects to close almost 1,100  data
center  by 2015 to try to save $3 billion, according to the
budget. The administration said it plans to close 525 data
centers by the end of 2012.  “Moving forward, the government will shift to a newer
operating model that requires agencies to review existing data-
center capacity for use before investing in a potentially
duplicative capability,” according to the budget.  The administration said it will take further steps to
protect federal computer systems from cyber attacks by foreign
governments and hackers.  Securing Federal Networks  The Homeland Security Department will work with agencies to
identify areas in need of improvement to better defend computer
systems and develop risk mitigation strategies.  “Threats to this infrastructure -- whether from criminal
elements or nation-states -- continue to grow in number and
sophistication, creating the potential that essential services
could be degraded or interrupted, and confidential information
stolen or compromised, with serious effects,” the
administration said.  The budget didn’t provide an estimate for how much will be
spent on cybersecurity in fiscal 2013.  The administration is also developing a strategy to ensure
that agencies are efficiently buying and using mobile
technologies like  laptop computers , smartphones and tablets,
according to the budget.  Agencies are increasingly using mobile technologies and
need stronger policies for purchasing and securing devices, the
administration said.  The strategy will be released in March and include
guidelines for agencies to combine contracts for voice and data
services,  Steven VanRoekel , the government’s chief information
officer, told reporters on a conference call today.  “We have agencies that have multiple contracts with the
same carrier,” he said. “The prices are all over the map.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in  Washington  at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  