-- Technocrats Spur Italy Debt Rally Over Spain: Chart of the Day
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 2012-02-13T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/technocrats-spur-italy-debt-rally-over-spain-chart-of-the-day.html
Italy’s technocratic government led
by Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is generating more confidence in
credit markets than Spain’s democratic administration as both
nations struggle to overcome the debt crisis.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the cost of insuring Italian
bonds with credit-default swaps tumbled about 200 basis points
since Monti took over from  Silvio Berlusconi  in November.
Spanish swaps lagged behind, falling about 130 basis points
after Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  won office the same month.
Italian contracts now exceed Spain’s by 33 basis points, after
being 141 basis points wider two months ago.  Monti has garnered praise from French President Nicolas Sarkozy for “spectacular progress” after pushing through
spending cuts and tax increases to eliminate Italy’s  budget
deficit  by 2013. Spain will struggle to reach this year’s
deficit targets as Rajoy seeks to balance budget cuts as he
faces regional elections.  “The new Italian government is showing firmness in
reaching the target of zero budget deficit for 2013,” said
Alessandro Giansanti, a senior rates strategist at ING Groep NV
in Amsterdam. “We see more execution risk in Spain, which
already failed in 2011 with its deficit target.”  The difference is also reflected in the nations’ borrowing
costs, with Italy’s 10-year bond yield tumbling almost 2
percentage points since November to 5.6 percent, while Spain’s
benchmark has dropped about 1.8 percentage points to 5.3
percent. Italian yields now exceeded Spain’s by 30 basis points,
down from 202 basis points at the end of last year.  The market may be signaling a downgrade for Spain, which is
rated one level above Italy by Moody’s Investors Service,
according to Giansanti.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  