-- EDF Advances Most in 2 1/2 Months on Nuclear Extension Report: Paris Mover
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-02-13T14:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/edf-rises-most-in-2-1-2-months-on-nuclear-report-paris-mover.html
Electricite de France SA rose after
a government-commissioned report said the country should extend
the operating life of  Europe ’s largest network of nuclear-
reactors to six decades.  EDF (EDF)  jumped as much as 4.3 percent, the steepest intraday
advance since Nov. 30, and traded at 18.49 euros as of 3:08 p.m.
in Paris. The shares have dropped about 40 percent since last
year’s nuclear accident at Fukushima in  Japan .  The report advocates extending the lives of nuclear
reactors, all 58 of which are owned by EDF, to ensure the
cheapest possible power prices in 2030. Debate over the future
of EDF’s nuclear plants divides President Nicolas Sarkozy from
his Socialist Party rival  Francois Hollande . Sarkozy is seeking
re-election amid weak poll ratings by pledging to guide the
economy through the euro-region crisis.  “Sarkozy has previously expressed support for nuclear and
it will clearly be a key policy difference between him and
Hollande in the run up to the elections,” Nomura analyst Martin Young said in an e-mail. “If price matters to the French, then
this would be a logical step to take.”  A pull-back from nuclear power would mean higher
electricity costs for consumers, more  carbon emissions  and a
greater need for investment in new sources of energy, according
to the study, headed by Jacques Percebois, an economics
professor at the University of Montpellier, and former
International Energy Agency Executive Director Claude Mandil.  Safety Regulators  France should only close reactors for technical reasons
defined by safety regulators, the report said.  “It would be a waste,” Mandil said of any move to shut
reactors for “administrative” reasons if they could continue
to operate safely. “We aren’t more pro-nuclear than anti-
nuclear. We tried to be objective. What we are against is
wastage of energy, money and expertise.”  The findings run counter to Hollande’s policy of reducing
France’s dependence on atomic power and halting EDF’s oldest
nuclear plant at Fessenheim because of concern it may be
vulnerable to earthquakes. Sarkozy backs atomic power and has
promised to keep Fessenheim running.  EDF’s reactors provide about three quarters of France’s
power output. The state-controlled company is developing a new-
generation 1,650-megawatt EPR model at Flamanville, in Normandy
at a cost of about 6 billion euros. The existing generators are
on average 25 years old with the first models undergoing safety
inspections for their operating lives to be extended to 40
years.  Second EPR  France should push ahead with building a second EPR at
Penly, also in Normandy, and EDF should start preparing to
invest in maintenance and safety at existing plants to keep them
operating, Industry Minister Eric Besson said today at a press
conference after the report.  The study examined four scenarios for French  energy policy ,
including investing to prolong EDF’s fleet to 60 years at a cost
of 55 billion euros in the next 15 years and then “massive”
spending from 2030 for new plants. Power production prices would
be 52 euros to 59 euros a megawatt-hour in 2030.  The case for replacing the existing fleet after 40 years
with EPRs would require 10 billion to 12 billion euros of annual
investment from 2020 to 2030 to build two a year and would
result in the cost of power production of 60 euros to 73 euros a
megawatt-hour. “Getting to this rate of construction seems hard
to achieve,” the report concluded.  ‘Gradual’ Retreat  The “gradual” retreat from atomic energy by replacing one
out of every two reactors reaching the age of 40 years with an
EPR would bring  France ’s dependence on nuclear power to 40
percent to 60 percent by 2030 and power production costs to 69
euros to 79 euros a megawatt-hour, according to the report.  Closing all reactors after 40 years and replacing them with
renewable and fossil fuel generators would push power production
prices to 80 euros to 102 euros a megawatt-hour depending on the
energy mix, raise emissions and cost 100 billion euros through
2030, the report said.  “Prolonging the lives of nuclear reactors would be the
least regrettable solution,” the study concluded.  EDF and the atomic safety watchdog known as the Autorite de
Surete Nucleaire are in talks on measures  needed for reactors
to operate for 60 years. At present, EDF generators undergo
safety checks every 10 years.  EDF has long said that investment needed to permit the
reactors to last beyond 40 years would be more cost-effective if
they would also allow operations to continue to 60 years. The
ASN has said it would keep the current system of inspections
every decade.  “An implicit decision” has already been made to extend
the lives of existing reactors because there’s not enough time
to develop replacement reactors such as EPRs or other forms of
energy, the country’s state auditor concluded in a report last
month.  The Socialist Party’s retreat from nuclear power is part of
a rising movement against nuclear power since the Fukushima
disaster. After protests in  Germany ,  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
decided to phase out atomic power and has already closed eight
reactors. Switzerland and Italy have scrapped plans to build
reactors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  