-- Elbit Discount to S&P Defense Stocks is a ‘Buy’ to Leumi: Israel Overnight
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-02-14T16:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/elbit-discount-to-s-p-defense-is-buy-to-leumi-israel-overnight.html
Elbit Systems Ltd. (ESLT) ’s biggest
discount to the Standard & Poor’s 500 aerospace and defense
index in five months is a sign to  Bank Leumi Le-Israel Ltd. (LUMI)  that
investors should buy shares of the Israeli security company.  Israel’s biggest non-government defense technology
developer  dropped  2.7 percent in New York yesterday, sending
valuations to 8.02 times estimated earnings, while the average
for members of the S&P defense index is 13.4, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The 40 percent discount was the biggest since
Sept. 16. The  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index  of the largest U.S.-
traded Israeli stocks added 0.1 percent. Elbit Systems rose 1.5
percent in  Tel Aviv  today.  Haifa, Israel-based Elbit is lagging behind peers after
saying on Feb. 10 that fourth-quarter net income will be  reduced 
by as much as $65 million as a contract expired and on concern
sales will fall should the U.S. government cut $487 billion from
the 10-year defense budget plan. The stock has slipped 4.8
percent in  New York  over the past month, while the S&P Aerospace
and Defense Index gained 5.2 percent.  “There is no reason why Elbit should suffer more than its
peer group,” Ella Fried, an analyst at  Bank Leumi , Israel’s
largest lender by assets, said by phone from Tel Aviv yesterday.
“The valuations don’t make sense. Once we see how much cuts
there will be in the U.S. budget, Elbit may be seen as a more
defensive option after the decline.”  Fried recommends investors buy shares of Elbit and sell
stock of companies on the S&P Aerospace and Defense index.
Companies including Chicago-based airplane maker Boeing Co. and
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC) , the  Falls Church , Virginia-based maker
of the U.S. military’s Global Hawk drone, make up the  12-member 
index.  Teva Leads  The Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index has gained 7.7 percent
this year, outperforming the  TA-25 Index (TA-25) ’s 2.5 percent climb and
the S&P 500 Index’s 7 percent increase.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s biggest
maker of generic drugs, is leading the 2012 advance after
subduing concern that it would struggle to find new revenue by
replacing its chief executive officer. The Petach Tikva, Israel-
based company  reports  fourth-quarter earnings tomorrow.  U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  presented an outline on
Jan. 26 for $613 billion in spending for the fiscal 2013 year.
The proposal is part of an effort to cut $487 billion from $5.62
trillion in defense spending that had been planned for the 10
years from 2012 to 2021.  Israel’s  Defense Ministry  instructed Elbit in December to
halt sales of its airborne intelligence gathering system to
 Turkey . The company’s share of the contract is about $90 million
and it may receive some compensation from the government,
according to IBI- Israel  Brokerage & Investments Ltd.  ‘Isolated’ Warning  Turkey suspended military relations with Israel in
September and expelled the Israeli ambassador over Israel’s
refusal to apologize for the deaths of nine Turkish nationals
during last year’s interception of a ship challenging the
blockade of the  Gaza Strip .  “Since this is an isolated profit warning that has been
given in light of a specific event, we think the declines will
be brief,” Guil Bashan, an analyst at IBI in Tel Aviv who rates
Elbit a “buy,” wrote in an e-mailed report on Feb. 12. “The
declines represent an opportunity to increase positions.”  Elbit is scheduled to  report  fourth-quarter earnings on
March 15. Its Tel Aviv shares rose to 144.80 shekels, or the
equivalent of $38.72.  The company, whose products include unmanned aerial
vehicles and remote weapon systems, said on Nov. 16 that third-
quarter net income dropped to $36.5 million, from $45.3 million
in the same period in 2010.  ‘Cocktail of Bad News’  Elbit’s canceled contract with Turkey as well as lower
revenue growth because of defense budget cuts is “a cocktail of
bad news,” Tsahi Avraham, an analyst at Clal Finance Brokerage
Ltd. in Tel Aviv, wrote in an e-mailed report yesterday.  “A cancellation like this means giving up profits and a
certain hit to the company reputation as a reliable supplier,”
said Avraham, who rates the stock “market perform.”  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM) , based in Migdal Haemek, Israel,
 surged  to the highest level in six months in New York yesterday,
gaining 6.5 percent to 86 cents. Its Tel Aviv shares dropped 0.8
percent to 3.195 shekels, or 86 cents, after climbing 6.7
percent yesterday.  Magic Software, Partner  The company’s Japanese unit will receive a capital-
expenditure subsidy from that nation’s Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry to improve logistics and facilities, Tower
Semiconductor said in a statement yesterday.  Magic Software Enterprises Ltd. (MGIC)  climbed 6.1 percent to
$6.93. The Or Yehuda, Israel-based company’s Tel Aviv shares
rose 8.2 percent today to 27.02 shekels, or $7.22, after the
 software developer  said net income rose in the fourth quarter as
sales gained. Magic was rated a “buy” in initial coverage at
Maxim Group yesterday.  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR) , Israel’s second-largest mobile
phone company, climbed 3.6 percent to $8.76 in U.S. trading
after its stock in Tel Aviv advanced 2.2 percent to 32.73
shekels, the highest closing price since Jan. 23. The Tel Aviv
shares declined 1 percent today.  Scailex Corp. -- which owns 44.5 percent of Partner,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg -- said on Feb. 2 that
it is considering selling its stake in the company at a premium.  “Speculation of a minority buyout or a selling of part of
Scailex’s stake may support wireless shares in the near-term
despite weak underlying trends,” Darren Shaw, a Herzliya
Pituach, Israel-based analyst at UBS AG, wrote in a report e-
mailed yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  