-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance on Greece Vote, Outlook for China Stimulus
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-02-13T22:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/emerging-market-stocks-advance-on-greece-progress-china-s-fine-tuning-.html
Emerging-market stocks rebounded
from the biggest drop in more than two months after Greek
lawmakers approved austerity plans and  China ’s premier said the
nation needs to “fine-tune” economic policies, adding to
speculation the government will take more steps to boost demand.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 1 percent to 1,053 at
the close in New York, following a 1.8 percent slide on Feb. 10.
The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland companies
listed in  Hong Kong  climbed 0.5 percent.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock
index surged 2.6 percent as higher commodities prices lifted
producers. The  Micex Index (MICEX)  jumped 2.3 percent in Moscow, the
most since Jan. 3. Turkish stocks gained 2.1 percent.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won parliamentary
approval for austerity measures to secure an international
bailout as rioters protesting the measures battled police and
set fire to buildings in downtown Athens. China’s economic
circumstances in January and the first quarter deserve
attention, Premier  Wen Jiabao  told business executives last week
in Beijing, the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.  “It’s nice to get the Greek vote behind us, but certainly
it would be great to get the whole European sovereign mess
behind us and I don’t think we’re there yet,” Greg Lesko, who
manages $700 million at Deltec Asset Management in  New York ,
said by phone. “Certainly with  Europe  slowing down, that’s
going to have an important influence on Chinese exports. They’ll
do something to stimulate demand.”  Emerging-market stocks have gained 15 percent this year,
beating the 8.2 percent increase for developed-nation shares.
Developing-country stocks trade for 10.5 times estimated
earnings, compared with the 12.6 times multiple in developed
markets.  China Lending  Wen’s remarks were released after China’s new lending
missed estimates by 26 percent in January and  money supply  grew
the least in more than a decade, according to data released by
the central bank on Feb. 10 after the market closed.  While Wen “did not specify what types of policy
adjustments were being contemplated, it would be remarkable if
lower bank reserve requirements were not one of them,” Michael Derks, chief strategist at FXPro Financial Services Ltd. in
 London , wrote in an e-mail.  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  led Chinese stocks in Hong
Kong higher, gaining 1.3 percent.  Sales at U.S. retailers probably increased in January by
the most in four months, economists said before a Commerce
Department report due tomorrow.  The Bovespa gained in  Sao Paulo  as higher commodity prices
lifted Petroleo Brasileiro SA and Vale SA.  Petrobras (PETR4) , as
Petroleo Brasileiro is known, rose 3.7 percent.  Vale (VALE5)  added 2.6
percent.  Sberbank, Gazprom  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI index  of 24 raw materials gained
1 percent.  OAO Sberbank (SBER) ,  Russia ’s biggest lender, added 2.3 percent
and  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) , the world’s largest natural-gas producer,
gained 2.2 percent in Moscow.  In Asian markets,  Taiwan ’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  and  South Korea ’s
 Kospi index  climbed 0.6 percent.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 379, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  