-- Empire State Building Owners File $1 Billion IPO, REIT Plan
-- B y   R o s s   L a r s e n   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-02-13T20:51:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/empire-state-building-owners-file-1-billion-ipo-plan-to-change-into-reit.html
The company that controls the Empire
State Building plans to raise as much as $1 billion in an
initial public offering, giving investors the opportunity to own
a piece of the landmark 102-story  Manhattan (COLA)  skyscraper.  Empire State Realty Trust Inc. plans to become a real
estate investment trust and list shares on the New York Stock
Exchange under the ticker symbol “ESB,” the company said in a
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filing today. A group of
closely held companies will be consolidated to form the REIT as
part of the IPO, according to a separate filing.  The offering would give investors ownership of one of the
world’s most famous buildings and other Midtown properties as
New York’s real estate values rebound after the recession.
Midtown Manhattan office values have gained 87 percent since a
mid-2009 trough, according to Green Street Advisors Inc., a REIT
research firm in  Newport Beach ,  California .  “Because it’s got an iconic building as a centerpiece, I
expect it will be successful anyway, but you’re going to have
more or less a higher percentage” of individual investors, said
Lawrence Longua, director of the REIT Center at New York
University’s Schack Institute of Real Estate. For institutional
investors, the owners “are very recognized names in the
industry, so I suspect all in all, it’ll do well,” he said.  Malkin Holdings  Malkin Holdings LLC, supervisor of the company that holds
the title to the tower, said in November that it had “embarked
on a course of action” that might result in it becoming part of
a new REIT. Malkin Holdings supervises property partnerships led
by Peter Malkin and his son Anthony Malkin. It owns the 2.9
million-square-foot (269,000-square-meter) Empire State Building
in conjunction with the estate of Leona Helmsley.  The REIT would consolidate  Manhattan  and New York area
properties owned by companies including  Empire State Building
Associates LLC (ZZDIR) , 60 East 42nd St. Associates LLC and 250 West
57th St. Associates LLC. Participants can opt to receive cash
instead of shares for as much as 15 percent of the value.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
will advise on the IPO. No price or number of shares was given
in the filing.  The companies that would make up Empire State Realty owned
12 buildings totaling about 7.7 million square feet of rentable
offices as of Sept. 30, according to the filing. Seven
properties, including the Empire State Building, are in Midtown,
totaling 5.8 million square feet. The other five are in New
York’s Westchester and  Connecticut ’s Fairfield counties.  Chain of Ownership  The REIT would also hold rights to develop land near the
Metro North railroad station in  Stamford , Connecticut, plus four
standalone retail properties in Manhattan and two in Westport,
Connecticut.  For years, the Empire State Building underperformed because
of friction and litigation between parties in a complex chain of
ownership. The landlord,  Donald Trump ’s organization for a time,
leased the entire building to a venture controlled by Peter
Malkin and Lawrence Wien, which then subleased it to a Helmsley
partnership.  The Malkins bought out the Trump Organization in 2002 and
settled litigation with Leona Helmsley in 2006, giving them
management rights to the tower. They began renovations, making
larger office suites to attract higher-paying tenants, at a cost
that may exceed $500 million by the end of 2013, according to
the filing.  Energy Makeover  The improvements included retrofitting the tower to reduce
its energy consumption and carbon emissions, in part by
replacing all 6,500 windows. The $20 million makeover, on which
former President  Bill Clinton ’s foundation was a partner, won
the building the second-highest rating in September from the
U.S. Green Building Council.  In 2010 and 2011,  Li & Fung Ltd ., a Hong Kong-based
consumer products marketing company, signed leases for 588,944
square feet in the tower.  The  Empire State Building   -- the tallest in the world from
its completion in 1931 until the World Trade Center’s north
tower was finished in 1972 -- accounted for 41 percent of Empire
Realty’s revenue in the nine months through September, the
company said in the filing. The tower’s observatory, one of New
York’s most popular tourist attractions, provided 17 percent of
the company’s revenue during that period.  Some proceeds from the public offering will be used as
payment to investors who choose to receive cash for their equity
in existing Malkin entities, according to the filing. Other
proceeds will be used to pay fees in connection with debt, and
possibly for future acquisitions.  Competition for Assets  Funds the Malkins raise in the public markets should
strengthen their hand in the competition to acquire assets,
according to Stuart Saft, chairman of the global real estate
practice at law firm Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP in  New York .  The offering is “well-timed because the market is looking
for investment vehicles,” Saft said in a telephone interview.
“It frees up equity in their properties, enables them to invest
in other ways, and it gives them interest in the IPO that they
can use to trade for additional properties.”  The money also will help defray the renovation costs, he
said. The company needs $55 million to $65 million more to
complete the work, according to the filing.  “From the Malkins’ point of view, the only risk is all the
public exposure they’re going to have to give when they file
their quarterly reports,” Saft said. “The problem with going
public is the fact that you’re public.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  