-- Tepco Widens Loss Forecast as Fukushima Costs Trigger $8.9 Billion of Aid
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-02-13T10:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/tepco-widens-loss-forecast-as-fukushima-costs-trigger-8-9-billion-of-aid.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , which
received an $8.9 billion lifeline from the Japanese government,
widened its full-year loss forecast as compensation and clean-up
costs rose after the Fukushima nuclear disaster.  The company known as Tepco expects to lose 695 billion yen 
($8.9 billion) in the year to March 31, compared with a November
estimate of 600 billion yen, it said in a statement today. The
utility serving 29 million customers in and around Tokyo had 
posted a loss of 1.25 trillion yen in the previous fiscal year.  Tepco today received extra aid of 689.4 billion yen from
the government and is seeking a larger bailout of as much as 2
trillion yen as it sits on the edge of bankruptcy. Japan’s trade
and industry minister,  Yukio Edano , today told Tepco President
Toshio Nishizawa the government won’t approve the broader
package unless it gets management control and voting rights.  “It’s all part of a game of chicken,” said Hirofumi
Kawachi, a Tokyo-based energy analyst at Mizuho Investors
Securities Co. By resisting government control “Tepco is
essentially holding its customers in the political and financial
centers of Japan hostage.”  The company is proposing increasing prices for households
to help cover the cost of using fossil fuels to produce
electricity now that all but one of its 17 nuclear reactors has
been shut down. Edano has told Nishizawa Tepco needs to recover
public trust before raising tariffs.  Rising Compensation  The utility, which is still struggling to control
temperatures at the stricken plant north of  Tokyo , in December
raised its estimate for compensation payments to those affected
by the disaster to 1.7 trillion yen. A government panel
estimates payments will reach 4.5 trillion yen by March next
year.  The company needs to show its commitment to becoming “a
newborn Tepco” after widespread criticism of its handling of
the disaster, Edano said last week. The government has set up a
fund to handle compensation claims and avert a collapse of the
company.  “If Tepco wants a capital injection from the fund, the
plan must also include ways to preserve the capital as well as
achieve the purpose of the capital injection,” Edano told
Nishizawa and officials of the fund at the meeting in Tokyo
today. “If Tepco submits a plan seeking capital injection
without sufficient  voting rights  reflecting the size of the
injection, I have absolutely no plans to approve it as long as
I’m in this position.”  Bailout Talks  Tepco is in talks with banks and the government’s Nuclear
Damage Liability Facilitation Fund to raise loans, two people
with knowledge of the negotiations said earlier. The banks will
lend 1 trillion yen each to the company and the same amount to
the fund, which would use the money to buy the utility’s shares,
the people said.  The utility’s management is resisting giving up control to
the government and wants to keep the ratio of the fund’s voting
rights to less than 50 percent, one of the people said. The
government may obtain more than one-thirds of voting rights to
have power of veto, the Asahi newspaper reported on Feb. 10.  Tepco will draw up a business plan by the end of March that
reflects Edano’s comment on the government’s management rights,
Nishizawa said today at the company’s earnings briefing in
response questions on the bailout. He declined to comment
further.  The company booked an extraordinary gain of 1.62 billion
yen reflecting the aid payments from the government, it said in
a  statement . Tepco wrote down 2 trillion yen on a non-
consolidated basis to cover compensation payments.  Decommissioning Costs  The full-year loss forecast was increased after the company
booked more decommissioning costs, Katsuyuki Sumiyoshi, general
manager of Tepco’s accounting and treasury department, said
today at the earnings briefing.  Tepco said its fuel bill for the full year will probably
rise by 760 billion yen. The utility said earlier its fuel costs
will increase by 830 billion yen to 2.31 trillion yen as it uses
more thermal  power plants  to fill the void left by nuclear
stations that were damaged or shut for safety checks.  Tepco, which earlier pledged to cut 7,400 jobs as part of
cost reductions, has seen a three-fold increase in the number of
staff quitting compared with recent years, Nishizawa said. He
declined to give numbers.  The shares rose 0.5 percent to close at 201 yen before the
earnings were released. About $40 billion of Tepco’s market
value has been wiped out since the day before the March 11
earthquake and tsunami caused reactor meltdowns at the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant 220 kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo.  Temperatures Rise  The worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl in 1986 led to
about 160,000 fleeing radiation and damaged fisheries, farms and
forestries in Fukushima prefecture in northern Honshu,  Japan ’s
most populous island.  The company is also coping with rising temperatures inside
the No. 2 reactor, one of three that melted down at the plant.
One of three thermometers indicated the temperature at the
bottom of the reactor pressure vessel rose to 93.7 degrees
Celsius (200.7 Fahrenheit) today, higher than the 80 degrees
limit set by the government, Ai Tanaka, a spokeswoman for the
utility known as Tepco, said by phone today.  There are no signs of isotopes that would suggest the
reactor has gone critical and there’s been no increase in
radiation around the site, the company said in a statement. The
other two thermometers at the bottom of the vessel showed
temperatures of 32.8 degrees and 33.1 degrees earlier today,
spokesman Naohiro Omura said. The thermometers have a margin of
error of as much as 20 degrees.  “We think the thermometer may be faulty,” Omura said. The
other two gauges indicate temperatures are falling, he said.  Tepco and Japan’s government announced on Dec. 16 they
succeeded in bringing the reactors into a safe state known as
cold shutdown, a claim that has been contested by some
independent observers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  