-- Tepco Says Fukushima Reactor Temperature Breaches Safety Limit
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   T a k e s h i   A w a j i
-- 2012-02-13T05:08:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/tepco-says-fukushima-reactor-temperature-breaches-safety-limit.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  said the
temperature in one of the damaged reactors at its Fukushima
nuclear station rose to levels above safety limits even as it
injected increased amounts of cooling water.  One of three thermometers indicated the temperature at the
bottom of the No. 2 reactor pressure vessel rose to 93.7 degrees
Celsius (200.7 Fahrenheit) today, higher than the 80 degrees
limit, Ai Tanaka, a spokeswoman for the utility known as Tepco,
said by phone today.  There are no signs of isotopes that would suggest the
reactor has gone critical and there’s been no increase in
radiation around the site, the company said in a statement.
The other two thermometers at the bottom of the vessel showed
temperatures of 32.8 degrees and 33.1 degrees earlier today,
spokesman Naohiro Omura said. The thermometers have a margin of
error of as much as 20 degrees.  “We think the thermometer may be faulty,” Omura said. The
other two gauges indicate temperatures are falling, he said.  It’s also possible that unstable water flow into the unit
may have kept the coolant from reaching parts of the melted
fuel, he said.  The utility increased the rate of coolant flow to 17.4
cubic meters per hour from 14.1 cubic meters per hour as of 3:30
p.m. yesterday, it said in a statement.  Tepco and  Japan ’s government announced on Dec. 16 they
succeeded in bringing the reactors into a safe state known as
cold shutdown nine months after the March 11 earthquake and
ensuing tsunami caused the worst release of radiation since the
Chernobyl accident in 1986.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Takeshi Awaji in 東京 at 
 tawaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  