-- Tepco Says Faulty Gauge Behind Temperature Rise in Fukushima
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   T a k e s h i   A w a j i
-- 2012-02-13T10:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/tepco-says-faulty-gauge-behind-temperature-rise-in-fukushima.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  said it
concluded a faulty gauge showed the temperature in one of the
damaged reactors at its Fukushima nuclear station rose to levels
above safety limits.  One of three thermometers indicated the temperature at the
bottom of the No. 2 reactor pressure vessel rose to as high as
285 degrees Celsius (545 Fahrenheit) today, higher than the 80-
degree limit, Junichi Matsumoto, a general manager of the
utility, said at a briefing in  Tokyo .  “We can’t use this figure,” he said, “Our conclusion is
it has to be a case of the thermometer being faulty.”  There are no signs of isotopes that would suggest the
reactor has gone critical and there’s been no increase in
radiation around the site, the company said in a statement
earlier in the day. The other two thermometers at the bottom of
the vessel showed temperatures of 32.8 degrees and 33.1 degrees
earlier today, spokesman Naohiro Omura said. The thermometers
have a margin of error of as much as 20 degrees.  The utility increased the rate of coolant flow to 17.4
cubic meters per hour from 14.1 cubic meters per hour as of 3:30
p.m. yesterday, it said.  Tepco and  Japan ’s government announced on Dec. 16 they
succeeded in bringing the reactors into a safe state known as
cold shutdown nine months after the March 11 earthquake and
ensuing tsunami caused the worst release of radiation since the
Chernobyl accident in 1986.  -- With assistance from Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo.
Editor: Aaron Sheldrick  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Takeshi Awaji in 東京 at 
 tawaji@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  