-- Tokyo Electric Receives Government Aid, Averts Threat of Being Delisted
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-02-13T05:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/tepco-receives-8-9-billion-government-aid-averting-threat-of-delisting.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  received a
$8.9 billion lifeline from the Japanese government, averting the
risk of a delisting 11 months after the Fukushima nuclear
disaster forced the evacuation of 160,000 people.  The utility, which is still struggling to control
temperatures at the stricken plant, should use the funds to
compensate victims of the disaster, Trade Minister  Yukio Edano 
told Tepco President Toshio Nishizawa in a meeting today 
attended by reporters. Tepco said it will announce earnings at
4:30 p.m., a day before all listed companies must report.  Tepco raised its estimate in December for compensation
payments to those affected by the disaster, the worst nuclear
accident since Chernobyl in 1986, to 1.7 trillion yen ($22
billion). The temperature in one of the damaged reactors at its
Fukushima plant rose to levels above safety limits, the utility
said today.  The company needs to show its commitment to becoming “a
newborn Tepco,” including allowing the government have a
majority stake and  voting rights , Edano said last week. The
extra aid of 689.4 billion yen agreed today wasn’t intended to
help Tepco meet the deadline to report its financial statements,
he said.  “If Tepco wants a capital injection from the fund, the
plan must also include ways to preserve the capital as well as
achieve the purpose of the capital injection,” Edano told
Nishizawa and officials of the fund in a meeting in Tokyo today.
“If Tepco submits a plan seeking capital injection without
sufficient voting rights reflecting the size of the injection, I
have absolutely no plans to approve it as long as I’m in this
position.”  Loss Forecast  The company said in November it expects a loss of 600
billion yen for the year March, bringing losses from the crisis
to 1.85 trillion yen. Tepco reported a full-year loss of 1.25
trillion yen last fiscal year.  Tepco must file a quarterly financial report to regulators
by tomorrow under Japanese law. Its shares can be struck from
the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange a month after being placed on a
watchlist if no quarterly report is filed, according to bourse
rules.  Tepco shares rose 2 percent to 204 yen as of 2:23 p.m. in
Tokyo, after gaining as much as 8 percent.  Rising Temperatures  The company also faces rising temperatures at its No. 2
reactor at the Fukushima plant. One of three thermometers
indicated the temperature at the bottom of the reactor pressure
vessel rose to 93.7 degrees Celsius (200.7 Fahrenheit) today,
higher than the 80 degrees limit, Ai Tanaka, a spokeswoman for
the utility known as Tepco, said by phone today.  There are no signs of isotopes that would suggest the
reactor has gone critical and there’s been no increase in
radiation around the site, the company said in a statement. The
other two thermometers at the bottom of the vessel showed
temperatures of 32.8 degrees and 33.1 degrees earlier today,
spokesman Naohiro Omura said. The thermometers have a margin of
error of as much as 20 degrees.  “We think the thermometer may be faulty,” Omura said. The
other two gauges indicate temperatures are falling, he said.  Tepco and  Japan ’s government announced on Dec. 16 they
succeeded in bringing the reactors into a safe state known as
cold shutdown nine months after the March 11 earthquake and
ensuing tsunami caused the meltdown of three reactors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  