-- Tepco Faces Delisting as Negotiations Stall
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-02-13T01:38:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/tepco-faces-delisting-as-negotiations-stall.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  risks
delisting from the city’s stock exchange as negotiations with
the government stalled over a bailout that would prevent a
collapse of the utility after the Fukushima nuclear disaster.  The owner of the crippled Fukushima nuclear plant must file
a quarterly financial report to regulators by tomorrow under
Japanese law. The shares may be struck from the Tokyo Stock
Exchange a month after being placed under supervision if no
quarterly report is filed, according to bourse rules.  The utility known as Tepco in December requested 689.4
billion yen ($8.9 billion) in further aid after raising its
estimate for compensation payments to those affected by the
disaster to 1.7 trillion yen and is resisting giving up control
to the government. Yukio Edano, the trade and industry minister,
said on Feb. 10 government support isn’t intended to help the
company meet the deadline and it needs to show it’s committed to
becoming “a newborn Tepco.”  “Tepco was supposed to offset losses from compensation
payments with money from the government,” Hirofumi Kawachi, an
energy analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co., said. “Once
that arrangement stops working, Tepco may slip into insolvency
when it closes its books.”  Tepco hasn’t decided when to report its earnings to the
exchange, Atsushi Sugiyama, a spokesman for the utility, said
today. It will be difficult to file the results for the nine
months ended Dec. 31 before Edano approves the aid request, he
said. Tepco is aware of the deadline tomorrow, he said.  ‘Newborn’ Tepco  Edano will meet Tepco President Toshio Nishizawa to discuss
the aid at 12:10 p.m., the ministry of trade and industry said
today in an emailed statement.  Tepco is in talks with banks and the government’s Nuclear
Damage Liability Facilitation Fund to raise loans, two people
with knowledge of the negotiations said in December. The banks
will lend 1 trillion yen each to Tepco and the same amount to
the fund, which would use the money to buy the utility’s shares,
the people said.  The utility’s management is resisting giving up control to
the government and wants to keep the ratio of the fund’s  voting
rights  to less than 50 percent, one of the people said. The
government may obtain more than one-thirds of voting rights to
have power of veto, the Asahi newspaper  reported  on Feb. 10.  Tepco won Edano’s approval for support totaling 891 billion
yen in November after the company pledged to cut jobs and costs.
The company requested the extra aid on Dec. 27 after the
government revised compensation guidelines and its policy on
evacuation zones.  The company said in November it expects a loss of 600
billion yen for the year March, bringing losses from the crisis
to 1.85 trillion yen. Tepco reported a full-year loss of 1.25
trillion yen last fiscal year.  About 160,000 people fled radiation as three reactors went
into meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant after the March 11
earthquake and tsunami.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  