-- EU High-Frequency Trades, CFTC Budget, Europe Trading Tax: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/eu-high-frequency-trades-cftc-budget-europe-trading-tax-compliance.html
High-frequency traders may win a
partial reprieve from proposed European Union rules designed to
prevent a repeat of the so-called flash crash after banks and
exchanges including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  warned
they could damage markets and lead to an exodus of traders.  The  European Parliament  may scrap plans to force firms that
use algorithmic-trading programs to continue trading throughout
the day, said Markus Ferber, the lawmaker writing the assembly’s
response to the proposals. The measure was meant to prevent them
creating volatility by diving in and out of the markets.  High-frequency traders came under increased regulatory
scrutiny following the so-called flash crash in May 2010, during
which the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly lost almost 1,000
points. The liquidity rule is one of several curbs proposed by
Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  last year as part
of a wider overhaul of an EU markets law, known as Mifid.  Barnier’s proposals would require algorithmic trading
strategies to be in continuous operation during trading hours
and to offer quotes at competitive prices regardless of
prevailing market conditions, according to a copy of the plans
published on the commission’s website.  The liquidity rule may increase costs for high-frequency
trading companies and place them at a disadvantage to other
traders who are allowed to withdraw from the market, NYSE
Euronext warned when the plans were announced last year. This
may encourage firms to shift their activities out of the 27-
nation EU, it said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Europe Trading Tax May Wipe 10% From Stocks Value, HSBC Says  A European-wide financial transaction tax may wipe off as
much as 10 percent from equity valuations and offset the
benefits to the region’s economy of governments raising money,
according to  HSBC Holdings Inc. (HSBA)   The proposed tax “does present a major downside risk to
both the banking sector and the broader market,” London-based
HSBC analysts Robin Down and Lorraine Quoirez wrote in a report
dated Feb. 9. “Investors should also anticipate a market-wide
increase in the cost of both equity and debt, and major upheaval
in the repo market.”  France and eight other European Union countries are seeking
to introduce the levy on shares, derivatives and high-frequency
trading. The  European Commission  in September suggested a tax of
0.1 percent on equity and bond transactions and 0.01 percent on
derivatives, which it said could raise 55 billion euros ($72
billion) a year. EU finance ministers are due to discuss the tax
next month.  Taxing transactions would prompt equity investors to expect
higher returns from the asset class, the analysts said. The tax
“as currently presented could see European valuations impacted
by up to 10 percent,” they wrote.  The proposed tax would amount to about 1 percent of a
typical transaction, as every purchase involves about 10 steps
and each would be subject to the tariff, Down said in a
telephone interview. It would therefore increase the cost of
equity, or the amount a company theoretically pays investors in
its shares, to about 9.5 percent from 8.5 percent and erode the
value of stocks, the analysts estimated.  The European Commission estimated in September that
derivatives turnover may decline as much as 90 percent in some
segments, especially in high-frequency trading.  Obama Said to Request 50% Increase in CFTC Budget for Dodd-Frank  President  Barack Obama  will request $308 million to fund
the U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission , the main U.S.
derivatives regulator, in the 2013 fiscal year, according to a
person briefed on the budget request scheduled to be announced
today.  The CFTC’s budget has been the focus of a debate between
Democrats seeking additional resources to complete Dodd-Frank
Act rules and Republicans trying to reduce the agency’s spending
as part of a broader effort to rein in deficits. The $308
million request would be a 50 percent increase from the agency’s
current $205 million budget.  Congress rejected Obama’s request last year for a $308-
million budget. The CFTC and Securities and Exchange Commission
are leading U.S. efforts to write new rules for the derivatives
market after largely unregulated swaps helped fuel the 2008
credit crisis. The agencies have set a goal to complete the
regulations this year.  Reuters reported earlier on the budget.  Compliance Action  Bachus Predicts ‘Full Exoneration’ in Ethics Investigation  The chairman of the U.S. House Financial Services Committee
said he expects “full exoneration” from an ethics
investigation following reports he made securities trades after
being briefed by Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  during
the 2008 fiscal crisis.  The Washington Post reported Feb. 10 that Representative
 Spencer Bachus , an Alabama Republican and the panel’s chairman,
is being investigated by the independent Office of Congressional
Ethics. The office opened its probe late last year and has
notified Bachus that it found cause to believe insider-trading
violations have occurred, the newspaper said.  In a Feb. 10 statement, Bachus said he welcomes the
opportunity to set the record straight and he “fully abided by
the rules governing members of Congress.”  CBS’s “60 Minutes” reported in November that Bachus and
other members of Congress bought stock in companies while
legislation that might affect those businesses was being
debated.  The House and Senate this month passed competing versions
of a proposal to strengthen the ban on insider trading by
members of Congress and other government officials.  For more, click here.  Treasury Said to Consider Sales of Stakes in Small U.S. Banks  The U.S. Treasury Department is considering selling stakes
and allowing mergers involving banks in the Troubled Asset
Relief Program, an Obama administration official said.  The Treasury is also weighing the restructuring of some of
about 370 remaining TARP banks that received government bailouts
during the financial crisis and allowing third-party
investments, said the official, who declined to be identified
because the information hasn’t been made public.  After lenders including  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. , and  Bank of America Corp.  repaid taxpayer-funded bailouts,
most firms left in TARP are small or regional banks. The largest
include  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  of Birmingham, Alabama;  Zions
Bancorporation (ZION)  of Salt Lake City; and  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  of Buffalo,
 New York .  In November, the Treasury said it was working with
investment firm Houlihan Lokey to explore options to help the
government recuperate TARP money from banks.  Under TARP, the Treasury put cash into banks in exchange
for equity stakes to help rescue financial institutions.     The
Treasury has estimated that it will profit by about $20 billion
on the bank portion of TARP.  BofA Subpoenaed by Massachusetts Over Collateralized Loans  Bank of America Corp. , the second-largest U.S. lender by
assets, was told to turn over documents to  Massachusetts ’s top
securities regulator related to the company’s involvement in
collateralized loan obligations.  The inquiry focuses on two CLOs the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank sold in 2007 that resulted in about $150
million in losses to investors, according to a statement Feb. 10
from the state’s secretary of the commonwealth,  William Galvin .  Galvin said in the statement that the securities division
is investigating whether the issuer knowingly over-valued the
assets “to get them off their books” and onto those of
investors.  Bill Halldin , a Bank of America spokesman, said the company
would cooperate fully with the probe and can’t comment further
on regulatory inquiries.  Separately, Bank of America and four of the other biggest
mortgage servicers agreed Feb. 9 to a $25 billion settlement of
state and federal probes into shoddy foreclosure practices.  For more, see Interviews section, below.  China solicits opinions on bank charge regulations, Xinhua Says  The  China Banking Regulatory Commission , with the central
bank and a reform commission, has invited the public to comment
on proposed regulations limiting the amount Chinese commercial
banks can charge for services, Xinhua reported.  The draft regulations, which were issued Feb. 10, were
compiled jointly by the regulatory commission,  the People’s Bank
of China  and the  National Development and Reform Commission ,
according to an online statement of the People’s Bank of  China ,
Xinhua said.  The purpose of the regulations is to “protect financial
consumers’ legitimate rights and promote healthy development of
bank services,” the central bank said in the statement,
according to Xinhua.  The comment period will be open until March 20, the news
service reported.  Interviews/Speeches  Brown, Rosner Comment on Banks’ Mortgage Settlement With U.S.  Thomas Brown , chief executive officer at Second Curve
Capital LLC and a Bloomberg contributing editor, talked about
the $25 billion settlement between the U.S. and the five biggest
mortgage servicers to end a probe of abusive foreclosure
practices. He spoke with Betty Liu and Dominic Chu on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop.”  For the Brown video, click here.  Joshua Rosner , an analyst at  Graham Fisher & Co. , also
talked about the settlement. He said we don’t know how much of
the settlement will end up “being born by the banks
themselves,” as opposed to investors. He thinks ultimately the
settlement will not hurt the banks.  For the Rosner video, click here.  Cridland Says U.K. Bankers Must Be Rewarded for Success  John Cridland , director general of the  Confederation of
British Industry , talked about U.K. banker bonuses and top
executive pay. He touched on the importance of transparency and
linking compensation to performance.  He spoke with Bloomberg’s Scott Hamilton in  London .  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 