-- EU Hits Indian Screw Makers With Duties to Counter Subsidies
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-02-13T07:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/eu-hits-indian-screw-makers-with-duties-to-counter-subsidies.html
The European Union imposed tariffs
as high as 16.5 percent on screws and bolts from India, saying
EU producers have been hurt by Indian subsidies.  The duties punish Indian manufacturers of stainless steel
fasteners including  Lakshmi Precision Screws Ltd. (LKPS)  for receiving
trade-distorting  government aid . The levies range from 3.2
percent to 16.5 percent, depending on the Indian exporter.
Lakshmi Precision Screws faces a 13.6 percent duty.  EU producers such as  Italy ’s Bontempi Vibo SpA and  France ’s
Ugivis SA suffered “material injury’” as a result of subsidies
to Indian competitors, the European Commission, the 27-nation
bloc’s regulatory arm in Brussels, said on Feb. 11 in the
 Official Journal . The duties, which took effect yesterday, are
for four months and may be prolonged for five years.  Indian exporters of stainless steel fasteners expanded
their combined share of the EU market to 18.3 percent in the 12
months through March 2011 from 12.1 percent in 2008, according
to the commission.  The trade protection is the preliminary outcome of an
inquiry that the commission opened last May after a subsidy
complaint by the  European Industrial Fasteners Institute  on
behalf of producers that account for more than 25 percent of EU
output of stainless steel fasteners.  EU governments, acting on a proposal from the commission,
must decide within four months whether to turn the provisional
duties into “definitive” levies lasting for five years. The
rates for definitive measures can change.  When it opened the subsidy probe, the commission began a
separate investigation into whether Indian exporters of
stainless steel fasteners also sell them in the EU below cost, a
practice known as  dumping . The commission announced no
provisional anti-dumping duties in this case on Feb. 11.  From the start of an EU anti-dumping inquiry, the
commission has nine months to decide on any provisional measures
and the bloc’s national governments have 15 months to impose
definitive anti-dumping measures.  The cases against  India  come less than two years after the
EU ended earlier threats to impose anti-subsidy and anti-dumping
duties on Indian stainless steel fasteners. In July 2010, the EU
closed similar inquiries covering imports of the same goods from
India and  Malaysia  without imposing duties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  