-- EU Parliament Committee May Back Carbon Set-Aside, Liese Says
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-02-13T09:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/eu-parliament-committee-may-back-carbon-permit-set-aside-liese-says.html
The European Parliament’s committee
on industry may back a plan to call on the bloc’s regulators to
temporarily withhold some carbon permits from the market after
2012, according to parliament member Peter Liese.  The committee, known as ITRE, is set to vote Feb. 28 on
draft amendments to the energy efficiency law, which include a
call on the European Union’s executive arm to propose setting
aside allowances in the emissions trading system to support
prices. The assembly’s environment committee, or ENVI, backed
the plan in December and in a report after the vote Liese
recommended ITRE follow suit.  “I’m optimistic that ITRE will agree on a wording to
address the problem,” Liese, who is a coordinator in the
environment committee, said in an interview on Feb. 10. “Of
course nothing is agreed before everything is agreed, but we’re
working on a compromise between ITRE and ENVI and different
political groups.”  At stake is the price of pollution in the world’s biggest
cap-and trade program, which covers more than 11,000 companies
in  Europe  and expanded this year into international airlines. EU
emissions permits dropped to a four-year low last month because
of oversupply, triggering calls by environmental groups and
investors including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  on EU policy-makers to
strengthen the system.  1.1 Billion Tons  EU carbon-dioxide allowances for delivery in December fell
2.2 percent to 7.75 euros ($10.28) a metric ton as of 8:25 a.m.
on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. The contract lost 50
percent from a year ago on concern that new energy savings
measures in the law the parliament is currently debating will
further erode demand for permits to discharge CO2.  The EU emissions trading system, or ETS, was valued at $120
billion last year. Analysts at Bloomberg New Energy Finance
predict that in the current trading period from 2008 to 2012 the
ETS will be oversupplied by around 1.1 billion metric tons,
worth 8.5 billion euros at today’s prices. This surplus may be
transferred into the next stage, or the so-called third phase,
from 2013 to 2020.  Liese said a compromise that he hopes to get in ITRE will
be less ambitious than some proposals on a set-aside that
narrowly passed in the environment committee last year and won’t
include any specific numbers of permits to be withdrawn. ITRE’s
decision will be a recommendation for the whole parliament on
how to vote on the proposed modifications to the energy law in
the final stage of the legislative process.  Compromise Amendment  “It should be the spirit of the compromise amendment from
ENVI, but it needs to be more precise and more legally sound,”
he said. “And that’s why we’re working on a new text which is
based on ENVI, but not with the same wording.”  In its Dec. 20 vote, the environment committee almost
unanimously backed an amendment calling on the European
Commission to delay sales of a “significant amount” of carbon
allowances from 2013. That compromise proposal was supported by
various political groups in the committee and its approval sent
emission permits up as much as 32 percent.  The word “significant” was still under discussion before
this month’s vote, according to Liese.  “But that’s not the key point; the key point is that the
text should be balanced and correct in a legal way,” he said,
adding that members of parliament were working with lawyers to
ensure the wording of the amendment makes clear that creating a
set-aside of permits requires a separate regulatory process.  Withholding Permits  The commission, which has the sole right to put forward
regulatory drafts, has said it needs political support to
propose a set-aside measure. Backing from the parliament could
give the bloc’s regulator the green light to act on this matter
even as member states, which can encourage the commission to
propose regulation, remain divided over the need to implement
more stringent climate policies.  The potential compromise in ITRE may also include a
reference to the need for the commission to conduct an analysis
on how a set-aside of permits would affect emitters, Liese said.  In December, his committee voted to add in a non-binding
part of the energy efficiency directive a clause that would
require the commission to set the number of permits to be
temporarily withheld at such a level that wouldn’t push carbon
prices above 30 euros.  Liese said that while he won’t insist on that provision to
be upheld in ITRE, he will seek references to the EU’s existing
impact assessments related to the costs of pollution to be
included in the compromise amendment.  “Too high carbon price can also be a problem, not only too
low,” he said.  While the commission and governments could agree to delay
the auctioning of some allowances without changing the EU law,
an eventual cancelation of permits at the end or during the next
trading period would effectively mean tightening the bloc’s
pollution cap. This would require a revision of the emissions
directive, a politically contentious step that also involves the
European Parliament and could take more than a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 