-- EU Vows to Keep Airline-Emission Levies as China-India Opposition Mounts
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-02-13T09:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/eu-won-t-halt-airline-emissions-levy-kallas-says-correct-.html
The European Union will press ahead
with emissions levies for international airlines, putting the
bloc on course for a trade spat with countries including China,
 India  and the U.S.  “The EU will not suspend the legislation,” Siim Kallas,
the European Commission’s vice president for transport, said
today in  Singapore  at an airline conference. “It’s a very high-
profile environmental issue.”  At least 27 countries are due to meet next week in Moscow
to discuss laying new charges on European airlines as they
protest the EU’s addition of aviation to a carbon-emissions
trading system last month. The governments say the move extends
EU regulations beyond the bloc’s border.  “What started out as a solution for environment has become
a source of potential trade conflict,”  Tom Enders , chief
executive officer of Airbus SAS, said in Singapore today. “That
should be a worry for all of us.”  China  and India have already asked airlines to rebuff
mandatory requests from the EU for data needed to fix emissions
payments. Carriers will have to hand over permits for 2012
carbon production by April 30, 2013. They will receive about 85
percent for free and will need to buy the rest in the market.  IATA Appeal  The  International Air Transport Association , the main
global trade body for airlines, has called on the EU to halt the
emissions cap while a global system is developed. The EU has
said that carriers can be exempted for its carbon system if
their home government introduces a similar program.  Chinese airlines are in an “intolerable” position because
of the spat between the country and the EU over the levies,  Tony Tyler , the head of IATA, said yesterday in a Bloomberg TV
interview. The industry needs a solution to the impasse, he
said.  Last week, China barred carriers from taking part in the EU
emissions-trading system because of concerns it will raise costs
and impinge on non-European governments’ sovereignty. The China
Air Transport Association asked its government to oppose the EU
levies and it is working on a legal challenge to be filed in
 Germany , Vice President Chai Haibo said Feb. 6.  Voicing Objections  “They are sovereign countries and have the right to voice
any objections they have,” said  Qatar Airways  Ltd. Chief
Executive Officer Akbar Al Baker. “Qatar Airways is abiding by
the rule, but we’re not happy.”  China hopes to reach an “acceptable solution” and will
consider “appropriate responses,” Foreign Ministry spokesman
Liu Weimin said Feb. 7.  The EU added flights to its cap-and-trade carbon program on
Jan. 1. Under the system, which is designed to pare pollution,
airlines must monitor and report their emissions on all flights
into and out of  Europe  each year, and purchase carbon permits to
cover these discharges.  Carriers will be given about 85 percent of their permits
free of charge in 2012. One permit is equivalent to one metric
ton of carbon dioxide.  “The issue here is that the EU is charging based on the
whole journey and whether they should be imposing anything out
of the European airspace,” said Goh Choon Phong, chief
executive officer of  Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  “The whole
principle doesn’t make sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  