-- Europe Job Losses Accelerate on AstraZeneca-to-PepsiCo Cuts
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-13T19:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/europe-job-losses-accelerating-with-astrazeneca-to-pepsico-cuts.html
Global companies from  NEC Corp. (6701)  to
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  are chopping jobs more than
three times faster than in 2011 as they brace for recession in
Europe and a slowdown in China.  Announced workforce reductions surged to 94,369 through
Feb. 10 from 26,561 a year earlier, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Employers based in Western Europe accounted for
the biggest group of job-cut disclosures, threatening to add to
unemployment in the euro area already running at a 13-year high.  Such firings are now running at the quickest pace to start
a year since a 2009 peak, when the European and U.S. economies
shrank amid the deepest slump since World War II. Now,  Europe ’s
debt crises may help spur a 0.5 percent contraction in the euro-
area economy in 2012, based on economists’ estimates.  “The problems that the European Union has to deal with
suggest that any recovery will be slow in coming and weak,”
said  Allen Sinai , chief global economist at Decision Economics
Inc. in  New York . “Businesses have started to change their
commitments in terms of their workforce in light of all the
uncertainty.”  Slowing economies in Europe and some developing markets
were cited by NEC President Nobuhiro Endo on Jan. 26 when the
Tokyo-based maker of mobile phones and computers lopped 10,000
jobs. London-based drugmaker AstraZeneca’s Feb. 2 plan for 7,300
firings follows the elimination of 21,600 positions since 2007.  Alcatel-Lucent, PepsiCo  At Paris-based  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) , where Chief Executive
Officer Ben Verwaayen plans 500 million euros ($660 million) in
cost reductions this year, job losses across Europe may reach
1,800, according to a union at the telecommunications-equipment
supplier.  Europe’s weakness contrasts with a U.S. labor market in
which economists project more job creation this year than at any
time since 2006. Even with PepsiCo joining 26 other companies in
North America in disclosing cuts in 2012, fewer than 25 percent
of the 8,700 jobs being trimmed at the Purchase, New York-based
company will be in the U.S.  Joblessness in the U.S. slid to 8.3 percent in January amid
the fastest growth in nonfarm payrolls in nine months.
December’s unemployment rate in the euro area reached 10.4
percent, the highest since June 1998.  “We look at the same data as everybody else,” said
Michael Lamach, chief executive officer of Swords, Ireland-based
 Ingersoll Rand Plc. (IR)  “But the part that we probably interpret
less positively is Europe.”  Dwindling Business  Europe revenue may fall as much as 12 percent in 2012 at
the maker of Trane air conditioners as business dwindles and the
euro weakens, Lamach said. Ingersoll Rand said last week it
expects $50 million in restructuring costs worldwide, including
in Europe. The company didn’t give a regional breakdown.  Gross domestic product in the euro area probably fell 0.4
percent in the final three months of 2011, based on the average
of 42 estimates compiled by Bloomberg before a Feb. 15 European
Commission report.  Adding to the squeeze on global companies is decelerating
growth in  China , whose projected 8.5 percent expansion would be
the least since 2001 after the government moved to squash
inflation and prick a real estate bubble.  “There’s a recession in Europe right now,” said  Jay Bryson , senior global economist with Wells Fargo Securities LLC
in  Charlotte , North Carolina. “China has slowed.”  The EU has been rocked by concern that  Greece  may default
on its sovereign debt and pull out of the euro pact.  Debt Crises  Countries such as Greece,  Portugal ,  Spain  and Ireland have
all been straining to meet sovereign debt payments because of
budget deficits that widened after the last recession crimped
tax receipts. Portugal, Ireland and Greece received EU bailouts
in exchange for pledges to slash spending.  “The confidence shock on financial markets in the second
half of last year has translated in a drop in orders and
activity,” Clemente De Lucia, a BNP Paribas economist, said in
an interview from Paris. “The employment situation remains
tough as business sentiment on activity hasn’t recovered.”  Greece’s latest crisis has rekindled the debt concern, with
a 14.5 billion euro bond payment due on March 20 for which the
government needs international assistance. Parliament approved
austerity measures early today to secure the aid as police
battled rioters in  Athens  protesting those steps, which include
state job cuts.  Government Spending  While an EU recession will last only a couple of quarters
before growth resumes in 2012’s second half, the pullback in
public-sector spending may mean slower European expansion
persists for years, said Gerd Hassel, an economist at BHF Bank
AG in  Frankfurt .  “It’s simply the austerity measures that dampen consumer
expectations,” Hassel said in an interview. That backdrop means
CEOs “are very reluctant to increase their production.”  Global companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  are
losing their advantage in earnings growth over domestic-focused
peers as the U.S. rebounds and overseas economies slow, said
 Jonathan Golub , chief U.S. market strategist at UBS Securities
LLC in New York.  Profits among  S&P 500  global companies are now growing only
0.5 percentage point faster than the other group, down from 8
percentage points last quarter, Golub said.  “It’s been a very powerful trend throughout the recovery
and it’s basically fallen off a cliff,” he said in an
interview.  Industry Conditions  Some of the biggest job cuts have more to do with company
or industry conditions than Europe’s economy.  AMR Corp (AAMRQ) .’s
American Airlines plans about 13,000 firings in bankruptcy.
Espoo, Finland-based  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  is eliminating 4,000 jobs in its
home country, Hungary and Mexico to shift manufacturing to Asia
as the mobile-phone maker falls behind rivals such as Apple Inc.  For others, such as AstraZeneca, the shrinking payrolls are
the result of pressures such as the expiration of pharmaceutical
patents on top of waning consumer demand and curbs on European
 government spending , said Alistair Campbell, health-care analyst
at Berenberg Bank in  London .  “You’ve got austerity measures in the background,
particularly hard in Europe, with uncertainties around what that
might do this year,” Campbell said in an interview. “Companies
are generally cautious about the outlook this year.”  Pull the Trigger  CEOs have learned to pull the trigger quickly on cuts to
keep profit margins in line with expectations when economic
growth cools, Decision Economics’ Sinai said. Stock prices
signal investors’ confidence that earnings will hold up, he said
in an interview.  This year’s 6.8 percent gain in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index 
through Feb. 10 actually exceeded the 4 percent advance for a
year earlier. The S&P 500 also climbed 6.8 percent this year
before today.  Ingersoll Rand is among the companies moving now to prepare
for a slump that may be worse than economists’ forecasts, with
steps that include “factory consolidation” in China. The
company also has closed two plants in  North America .  After posting the  largest decline  in the S&P 500
Industrials Index last year, the shares rose 25 percent through
last week, the third-biggest increase in the gauge of 61
companies.  “We’re a little bit more bearish on Europe at this
point,” Lamach said. “We hope to be proven wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  