-- Stocks, Commodities Rise After Greece Approves Austerity Plan for Bailout
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-02-13T21:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/euro-u-s-futures-climb-as-greek-lawmakers-approve-austerity-oil-gains.html
Global stocks rose, rebounding from
the biggest loss of the year, and commodities climbed after
Greek lawmakers approved austerity plans to secure rescue funds.
Treasuries climbed, while the euro reversed early gains.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  added 0.8 percent at 4:30
p.m. in  New York  after slumping 1.2 percent on Feb. 10. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.7 percent to 1,351.77. The
euro was little changed at $1.3194, erasing a gain of as much as
0.7 percent. The S&P GSCI index increased 1 percent as 13 of 24
commodities advanced. Yields on 10-year Treasuries dropped one
basis point to 1.98 percent.  The  S&P 500  climbed to within 1 percent of a  three-year 
high reached in April. Passage of the austerity bill puts the
spotlight on a Feb. 15 meeting of euro-area finance ministers
who must decide whether to approve the second bailout. Rioters
protesting the measures battled police and set fire to buildings
in downtown  Athens . Italy met its target at an auction today,
selling 12 billion euros ($16 billion) of bills as borrowing
costs fell.  “We still think you should buy stocks,”  Laszlo Birinyi ,
president of Birinyi Associates Inc. in Westport,  Connecticut ,
said in a Bloomberg Television interview in London today. “It’s
a continuation of the  bull market  and we’re encouraged by what
we are seeing in  Europe . I look at the markets, I find they are
strong. There’s real buying going on. This is not short-covering
or a temporary or transitory thing.”  Rally Resumed  The  S&P 500  climbed for the fourth time in five days and
rebounded from its first weekly loss of the year. The index,
which is up 23 percent from last year’s low in October, trades
for about 14 times its companies’ reported earnings and has been
stuck below its five-decade average  valuation  of 16.4 since May
2010, the longest stretch since a 13-year span beginning in
1973, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Financial, technology and industrial companies contributed
the most to the  advance  in the S&P 500 as nine of 10 industry
groups gained. Caterpillar Inc., United Technologies Corp. and
Chevron Corp. rose more than 1 percent for the top gains in the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average , which increased 72.81 points to
12,874.04. Chesapeake Energy Corp. rose 2.4 percent after the
natural-gas driller said it’s targeting as much as $12 billion
in asset sales and joint ventures this year.   Apple Inc. (AAPL)  advanced 1.9 percent to exceed $500 a share for
the first time, as a two-week gain spurred by the iPhone maker’s
first-quarter earnings report approached 20 percent.  ‘Key Stocks’  “Apple is one of the key stocks in the whole market and
it’s really driving things right now,” saidSteve Kilcullen,
head of flow derivatives sales for the Americas at Nomura
Holdings Inc. in New York. “No one expected this move we’re
seeing after they crushed earnings.”  More than 50 companies in the index are scheduled to report
results in the coming week,  data compiled by Bloomberg  show,
including Deere & Co. and Comcast Corp. Per-share profits have
topped analyst estimates at 70 percent of the 331 companies that
released results since Jan. 9, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Earnings-per-share have increased 3.9 percent for the group on 7
percent sales growth.  President Barack Obama sent Congress a $3.8 trillion budget
plan today with stimulus spending and tax increases for the
wealthiest Americans, spelling out election-year priorities that
are certain to draw Republican opposition. Obama is proposing
more money for jobs, highways and bridges, schools, student aid
and manufacturing research as well as higher taxes for
corporations, banks and oil, natural gas and coal companies.  The U.S.  dollar  weakened against 12 of 16 major peers and
the Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S. currency against those
of six trading partners, dropped 0.2 percent. The  New Zealand
dollar  surged 0.9 percent against the greenback, while the
Australian dollar advanced 0.6 percent.  European Stocks  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  rallied 0.7 percent as almost
three stocks gained for every one that fell.  Cable & Wireless
Worldwide Plc (CW/)  surged 45 percent after Vodafone Group Plc, the
world’s largest mobile-phone company, said it’s in early stages
of evaluating a potential offer for the company.  The  extra yield  investors demand to hold Italian 10-year
bonds instead of benchmark German bunds fell three basis points
to 367 basis points. Italy sold 365-day bills priced to yield
2.23 percent, down from 2.735 percent last month.  Germany 
auctioned 3.01 billion euros of six-month debt.  The cost of insuring against default on European  government
bonds  fell for the first time in four days. The Markit iTraxx
SovX Western Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 15
governments declined 0.8 basis point to 328.  Oil Embargo  Oil in New York climbed 2.3 percent to a one-month high of
$100.91 a barrel. Overseas Shipholding Group Inc., the largest
U.S. crude-tanker owner, said on Feb. 10 that the pool in which
its ships operate will no longer go to Iran after the European
Union agreed to an oil embargo. Natural gas declined 1.9 percent
for the biggest drop among 24 commodities in the S&P GSCI Index.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  added 1 percent, following
a 1.8 percent slide on Feb. 10, the biggest drop since November.  The Tel Aviv Stock Exchange’s benchmark TA-25 Index was
down 0.1 percent after Israeli embassy personnel came under
attack in  India , leaving four people injured, and an attempt to
blow up an Israeli car in Georgia was thwarted. Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu blamed both incidents on Iran.  Russia’s  Micex Index (MICEX)  jumped 2.3 percent as oil producers
rose. Erste Group Bank AG helped lead the Czech  PX Index (PX)  2
percent higher. Benchmark indexes Hungary, Poland,  South Africa 
and Turkey gained at least 0.9 percent. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong 
climbed 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  