-- Stocks, Euro Trim Loss on Report Greece Will Back Austerity Plan for Aid
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-02-14T23:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/euro-u-s-futures-fall-after-moody-s-cuts-european-ratings-yen-advances.html
Most (.TOTALAD)  U.S. stocks fell as a rally in
the final half hour spurred by optimism  Greece  will commit to
budget cuts stopped short of erasing a decline in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. The euro pared losses while Treasuries and the
dollar trimmed gains.  The  S&P 500  slipped less than 0.1 percent to 1,350.5 at 4
p.m. in New York after tumbling  as much as  0.8 percent. Almost
two stocks declined for each that rose on U.S. exchanges. The
euro was down 0.5 percent to $1.3120 after slumping 0.8 percent
earlier. Ten-year Treasury yields fell four basis points to 1.94
percent, paring a six-point decline. Most commodities retreated,
while natural gas surged 4.2 percent on forecasts for colder
weather in the western U.S.  The leaders of Greece’s biggest political parties will send
commitments tomorrow to the so-called troika to stand by
austerity measures, a government official said today. Equities
and the shared currency slid earlier as finance ministers
canceled a meeting for tomorrow and Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , chairman of the euro finance panel, said he
hadn’t received assurances from Greek lawmakers about measures
required for the 130 billion euros ($170 billion) bailout.  “For now, it looks like Greece may be able to kick the can
down the road again,” Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more than
$20 billion as chief investment strategist at the private-
banking unit of KeyCorp in  Cleveland , said in a telephone
interview. “The issue overseas is less a function of whether
they come to an agreement with respect to Greece. The odds are
that they will. The larger issue is how much continuing
deterioration do you have in the European economy?”  Retail Sales  U.S. equities opened the session lower after Commerce
Department data showed that sales at U.S.  retailers  rose 0.4
percent in January, half the 0.8 percent forecast of economists
in a survey. Separate government data showed U.S. business
inventories trailed the improvement in sales in December,
showing companies may continue to restock shelves and warehouses
in early 2012. The 0.4 percent increase in stockpiles followed a
0.3 percent advance the prior month, Commerce Department data
showed.  Financial, commodity and industrial companies lost at least
0.3 percent to lead declines in five of the 10 main industry
groups in the  S&P 500  today.  Bank of America Corp.  fell 3.3
percent after Citigroup Inc. cut its recommendation on the
shares.  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  retreated 5.2 percent as
revenue at the largest U.S. tiremaker missed analysts’
 forecasts . Masco Corp. dropped 12 percent after the home
building products maker reported a quarterly loss.  Earnings Season  The S&P 500 is up 7.4 percent so far this year and has
rebounded 23 percent from last year’s low amid better-than-
forecast earnings and improving economic data. Earnings have
 topped  analysts’ estimates at about 70 percent of the 342
companies in the S&P 500 that reported results since Jan. 9,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thirty-year Treasuries also advanced, sending their yield
down four basis points to 3.09 percent. Two-year yields were
little changed at 0.29 percent. The difference between the yield
on two-year note and 10-year securities, the so-called yield
curve, dropped to 1.65 percentage points today, the least since
Feb. 3. A narrowing yield curve suggests investors anticipate
slow economic growth and inflation.  Dollar Climbs  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , a gauge of the currency against six major
peers, climbed 0.6 percent to 79.444. The yen fell 1.1 percent
to a three-month low versus the dollar after the  Bank of Japan 
said it would increase the size of its asset-purchase fund,
damping demand for the Asian nation’s currency.  Among the 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI index, 11
advanced and 13 retreated, sending the gauge down 0.2 percent.
Oil for March delivery dropped 17 cents to settle at $100.74 a
barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It reached $101.84
earlier, the highest price since Jan. 19. Prices have gained 1.9
percent this year.  Natural gas for March delivery rose 10.1 cents to $2.532
per million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the biggest gain since Feb. 2. Gas has declined 15
percent this year and dropped to $2.231 on Jan. 23, the lowest
intraday price since February 2002. Today’s gain came as the
 National Weather Service  predicted the western U.S. may
experience below-normal temperatures over the next six to 15
days.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.2 percent, erasing an
early 0.4 percent advance. ThyssenKrupp AG fell 3.8 percent
after  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker posted a first-quarter loss
following project delays. Nokia Oyj, the biggest maker of mobile
phones, rose 2.1 percent after Nokia Siemens Networks’ Chief
Executive Officer, Rajeev Suri, was reported to say that he
doesn’t rule out holding an initial public offering.  German Confidence  Earlier gains in European stocks came after the ZEW Center
for European Economic Research in Mannheim said its index of
investor and analyst expectations rose to 5.4 this month from
minus 21.6 in January, compared with a median forecast of minus
11.8, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. The U.K.
and  France  may be stripped of their top Aaa ratings, Moody’s
said as it reduced the debt rankings of countries including
Italy,  Spain  and  Portugal .  “Signs that the European Monetary Union economy is
stabilizing, rather than collapsing as some have feared, and
hopes of a resolution of the EMU debt crisis seem to have
supported the economic sentiment,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-
income analyst at Newedge Group in  London , said in e-mails.
Italy’s debt offerings “were well absorbed, despite last
night’s downgrade by Moody’s that, in our view, was somehow
expected.”  Italian bonds advanced for a second day as the nation’s
borrowing costs fell at a sale of 6 billion euros ($7.9 billion)
of debt.  Italy’s two-year note yields decreased three basis points
to 3.05 percent and the 10-year rate fell three basis points to
5.57 percent. The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond rose two basis
points, paring an increase of as much as five basis points,
after the government sold 5.45 billion euros of bills.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  