-- Ex-Bear Stearns Managers Cioffi, Tannin to Pay $1.05 Million in SEC Suit
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-02-13T21:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/ex-bear-stearns-managers-cioffi-tannin-to-pay-1-05-million-in-sec-suit.html
Former  Bear Stearns Cos. (2942331Q)  hedge-fund
managers  Ralph Cioffi  and  Matthew Tannin , acquitted in 2009 of
criminal charges they misled investors, agreed to pay $1.05
million to settle a related civil case brought by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Cioffi agreed to pay $800,000 and accept a three-year ban
from the securities industry and Tannin agreed to a two-year ban
and $250,000 payment, SEC attorney John Worland told U.S.
District Judge Frederic Block in  Brooklyn , New York, in a
hearing today.  In November 2009, a federal jury found Cioffi and Tannin
not guilty of conspiracy and securities and wire fraud in the
first criminal trial stemming from a federal probe of the
collapse of the subprime-mortgage market. Cioffi, 56, was
portfolio manager for the  hedge funds . Tannin, 50, was their
chief operating officer. The government said investors lost $1.6
billion.  “This case is being settled for, relatively speaking,
chump change,” Block said at the hearing, adding that he was
“inclined to sign off on it.” He asked lawyers for both sides
to file more papers by next week.  Investment Pools  The SEC’s lawsuit, alleging the two men misled investors
about the funds’ deepening financial troubles and their own
holdings in the investment pools, was set to go to trial today.  After the hearing, Cioffi’s lawyer, Edward Little of Hughes
Hubbard & Reed LLP, and Tannin’s lawyer, Nina Beattie of Brune &
Richard LLP, declined to comment on the case. Cioffi and Tannin
weren’t in court today.  Cioffi’s payment includes having to give up $700,000 in
illegal gains and pay a $100,000 penalty. Tannin’s includes
disgorgement of $200,000 and a $50,000 penalty.  “These serious sanctions reflect the defendants’
misconduct, their ill-gotten gains and other considerations,
which we will set forth in the written submissions requested by
the court,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in an e-mailed
comment.  The two money managers were indicted in June 2008, a year
after their hedge funds failed. Bear Stearns collapsed less than
a year later and was bought by New York-based  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)   Home Loans  According to their indictment, Cioffi and Tannin conspired
to defraud clients by publicly touting the health of the funds,
made up mostly of subprime mortgage-backed securities.  The hedge funds, which filed for bankruptcy in July 2007,
were the Bear Stearns High-Grade Structured Credit Strategies
Enhanced Leverage Master Fund Ltd. and the Bear Stearns High-
Grade Structured Credit Strategies Master Fund Ltd.  The two funds failed when prices for collateralized debt
obligations linked to home loans fell amid rising late payments
by borrowers with poor credit or heavy debt.  The men claimed in e-mails and conversations to be adding
their own money to the funds in the months immediately prior to
their collapse, according to the government. Neither added any
money to the funds, once valued at $20 billion, the U.S. charged
in the criminal case.  The defense in the criminal trial argued Cioffi and Tannin
were innocent of any wrongdoing and had remained honestly
optimistic about the funds’ health.  Jurors interviewed after handing down not-guilty verdicts
on all the charges, said they believed Cioffi and Tannin had
worked to save the funds. E-mails presented by the government as
evidence of wrongdoing could be looked at as both favoring and
implicating the defendants, the jurors said.  The civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Cioffi, 08-cv-2457, and the criminal case is U.S. v. Cioffi, 08-
CR-00415, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  New York 
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court
at   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 