-- Mexico Stocks: Axtel, Maxcom, Ica, Ara, Urbi, TV Azteca
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-02-13T22:22:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/mexico-stocks-axtel-maxcom-ica-ara-urbi-tv-azteca.html
The following companies had unusual
price changes in  Mexico  trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the close of trading.  The IPC  index  rose 0.1 percent to 38,204.33.  Homebuilders and construction companies advanced after a
government report showed construction activity grew at an annual
rate of 3.6 percent in December, leading gains along with
manufacturing in Mexico’s gauge of industrial production.  Empresas Ica SAB (ICA*)  , the country’s biggest
construction company, jumped 7 percent to 23.97 pesos.  Consorcio
Ara SAB (ARA*)  , a Mexican homebuilder, gained 6.9 percent to
4.64 pesos. Homebuilder  Urbi Desarrollos Urbanos SAB (URBI*)  
rose 2.9 percent to 20.89 pesos.  Axtel and Maxcom gained on speculation that the government
may increase the limit on foreign investment of fixed-line
networks, said Juan Jose Resendiz, an analyst with Casa de Bolsa
Arka in Mexico City, in a telephone interview.  Axtel SAB (AXTELCPO) (AXTELCPO MM), Mexico’s second-largest land-line
phone company, climbed 7.5 percent to 5.45 pesos, the largest
gain on a closing basis since Nov. 14.  Maxcom Telecomunicaciones
SAB (MAXCOMCP)  , the fifth-largest land-line phone carrier in
Mexico, rose 8 percent to 3.76 pesos, the highest gain on a
closing basis since Dec. 29.  Grupo Herdez SAB de CV  (HERDEZ* MM), a Mexican packaged-
food producer, gained 1.3 percent to 26.23 pesos. The company
was rated “overweight” at HSBC by analyst Enrique Gomez-Tagle.  TV Azteca SAB (AZTECACP)  (AZTECACP MM), Mexico’s second-largest
broadcast television network, fell 1.4 percent to 8.85 pesos. TV
Azteca’s networks are being dropped today by Telecable, a
Mexican cable carrier controlled by closely held Grupo Hevi, in
a dispute over price. Azteca has raised its prices too much and
is asking the cable network to buy additional cable channels,
Telecable said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in New York at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  