-- Mexico Peso Rises as Greece Austerity Plan Boosts Export Outlook
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-02-13T22:57:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/mexico-peso-rises-as-greece-austerity-plan-boosts-export-outlook.html
Mexico ’s peso jumped the most in a
week after Greek lawmakers approved austerity plans to secure
rescue funds, boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  The peso gained 0.8 percent to 12.6982 per  U.S. dollar  at
the close in Mexico City, from 12.8021 on Feb 10. It was the
biggest increase since Feb. 3. The peso has gained 9.7 percent
this year, the most among major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Aversion to risk has declined, so this helps all  emerging
markets ,” Roberto Galvan, a currency trader at Intercam Casa de
Bolsa SA, said by phone from Mexico City.  While data showed today that Mexico’s industrial production
rose 2.8 percent in December from a year earlier, manufacturing
“is still behaving relatively well,”  Rafael Camarena , a Mexico
City-based economist at Banco Santander SA, said by phone.
Manufacturing output rose 3.7 percent in December from a year
earlier, compared with a 4 percent annual expansion in November,
the national statistics agency said on its website.  Germany  and the European Commission welcomed Greek approval
of the austerity steps demanded for a financial lifeline,
suggesting euro finance chiefs will pull Greece back from the
brink when they meet in two days. Euro-area finance chiefs will
convene in Brussels on Feb. 15 for their second extraordinary
meeting on Greece in a week.  The Greek parliament’s backing “is a crucial step forward
toward the adoption of the second program,” EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in
Brussels today.  The yield on peso-denominated debt due in 2024 fell nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 6.45 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price of the
securities rose 1.00 centavo to 130.92 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  