-- Fearful Irish Bankers Will Sidestep Armageddon, Minister Says
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-02-13T12:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/fearful-irish-bankers-will-sidestep-armageddon-minister-says.html
Irish banks may be suffering a
“fear factor” in lending after the collapse of a real estate
bubble that resembled “a  Ponzi scheme ,” according to Justice
Minister Alan Shatter.  Lenders handed out 623 million euros ($827 million) of home
loans in the third quarter, according to the  Irish Banking
Federation . They lent 11 billion euros in the same period five
years earlier, the height of the boom.  “What our financial institutions were running in the 2003-
2007 period was the nearest thing to a residential property
pyramid scheme,” Shatter said in a Feb. 10 interview at his
Dublin office. “We have gone from a situation from where they
were throwing money at any dog that moved,” to one where the
banks are being “unduly difficult” and “constipated.’”  Almost 13 percent of private residential mortgages were
either more than 90 days in arrears or restructured at the end
of September, according to the Irish central bank. Moody’s
Investors Service said last week Shatter’s proposed personal
insolvency laws may leave as much as 25 percent of the country’s
mortgage debt open to write-off.  “There was the implicit suggestion that there would be
some sort of banking Armageddon with this legislation,” said
Shatter, who took office after the change of government a year
ago, of the rating company’s report. “There are a whole range
of things Moody’s are missing.”  Shatter said that many home owners in negative equity are
paying their loans in full and only “an extraordinarily small
number” of home repossessions have been ordered by the courts.
Stress tests of the nation’s lenders last year also accounted
for “potential residential mortgage losses,” he said.  The state has injected about 62 billion euros into the
country’s  lenders  over the past three years amid soaring bad-
loan losses, as the economy struggles to emerge from what the
government calls the worst crisis since World War II.  “As we go along, there is going to be some hiccups and
there will also be some unexpected victories,” Shatter said.
“But we are going to keep at it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  