-- Fed to Decide ‘Soon’ on Capital One-ING Deal After Eight Months of Delays
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   P a t r i c k   C l a r k
-- 2012-02-14T09:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/fed-to-issue-decision-soon-on-capital-one-s-ing-direct-deal.html
The U.S.  Federal Reserve  said it
will soon decide whether to approve  Capital One Financial
Corp. (COF) ’s planned $9 billion purchase of  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s U.S.
online bank, eight months after the deal was announced.  “The board considered the application at its meeting this
afternoon and expects to issue a decision soon,” the central
bank said yesterday in a statement.  The Fed held three hearings to allow public input and
extended the comment period amid opposition to bank mergers from
advocates for consumer rights and affordable housing. The deal
would make McLean, Virginia-based Capital One the fifth-largest
lender by U.S. deposits. ING aims to repay aid from the Dutch
state with the proceeds, and is under European orders to divest
the bank before the end of 2013 as a condition of its bailout.  “This is a thoughtful and deliberate process and we
appreciate the thoroughness of the Fed’s review,”  Tatiana Stead , a Capital One spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“We look forward to their final decision and the positive
impact the acquisition will have on our customers, associates,
shareholders and our communities.”  The proposed purchase is the first the Fed is considering
under a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that requires the
central bank to consider whether mergers will result in
“greater or more concentrated” risks to the financial system.  Laura DiLello, a spokesman for ING Direct, referred
inquiries to Stead.  Stock ‘Overhang’  Capital One, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Richard Fairbank, climbed 0.4 percent to $48.49 in New York
trading yesterday. The shares have fallen 1 percent since the
ING deal was announced on June 16, trailing the 7 percent gain
by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index during that time.  “It’s an overhang on the company’s shares until there’s
some finality,”  Sanjay Sakhrani , an analyst with KBW Inc. who
has an “outperform” rating on Capital One, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “I’m not sure we can read anything into
this. We’re in uncharted territory.”  ING shares  fell  0.9 percent to 6.55 euros as of 9:25 a.m.
in Amsterdam, tracking the 0.7 percent drop in the 32-company
 Stoxx Insurance 600 Index .  The National Community Reinvestment Coalition wrote to Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  in September to say that the ING deal threatens the
goals of Dodd-Frank.  “I have never known the Federal Reserve to take this long
in issuing a decision,”  John Taylor , the coalition’s CEO, said
today in an e-mailed statement. “Today’s vote postponement is
encouraging news. This is a small sign that perhaps the era of
rubberstamping bank mergers is over.”  ING plans to use the proceeds from the ING Direct USA sale
to help repay part of the 3 billion euros ($4 billion) it still
owes the Dutch state by May, CEO Jan Hommen said last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Clark in New York at 
 pclark48@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  