-- First Solar-to-Vestas Wind Profit Crash Deters New CEOs: Energy
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   J e f f   G r e e n
-- 2012-02-13T17:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/first-solar-to-vestas-wind-profit-crash-deters-new-ceos-energy.html
Renewable-energy companies are
losing their allure with top executives after profits and stock
prices collapsed across the industry, making it more difficult
for boards to replace underperforming managers.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the biggest U.S. solar company, ousted
its chief executive officer in October and is still seeking a
replacement. At  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the largest turbine
maker, the chairman and finance director are leaving after the
company cut sales forecasts twice in three months and CEO Ditlev
Engel said his own job is safe.  “It’s becoming significantly more difficult to attract
people into this market,” said Shelly Fust, who leads clean
technology recruiting in  Los Angeles  at Korn/Ferry
International, the world’s largest executive search firm. “In
my 15 years, this is probably the most difficult time to
recruit.”  The renewable-energy industry, which just four years ago
drew managers from Silicon Valley to join the fight against
global warming, is suffering increased competition from Chinese
companies that gutted margins. The bankruptcy of Solyndra LLC,
which left the U.S. government responsible for $527 million in
debt, and concern that President  Barack Obama ’s administration
won’t be able to extend support for the industry, is driving
executives back to chipmakers, Fust said.  The interest from outside executives in the clean energy
industry peaked in 2008 when natural gas approached $14 per
million British thermal units, said Steven Goodman, North
America energy leader at executive recruiting company Egon Zehnder International. That sparked interest in alternative fuel
sources.  Gas Slump  “It was going gangbusters in 2007 and early 2008,”
Goodman said. The recruiting environment slowed in late 2009 as
gas prices fell, curbing demand for expensive renewable power,
he said. Gas in  New York  dropped 32 percent in 2011 to $2.99 per
million British thermal units, falling below $3 for the first
time in a decade.  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  Chief Financial Officer Marion Helmes resigned
in November, leaving her duties to Nedim Cen, the CEO, who has
concentrated on refinancing the solar company’s debt instead of
replacing her. Conergy AG, a German solar company negotiating
with creditors, last month named Chairman Philip Comberg to
serve as CEO until the end of this year, filling a post open for
15 months. Q-Cells declined to comment on recruiting issues.  Shares Slump  The  WilderHill New Energy Index (NEX)  of 97 companies tumbled 40
percent last year, and both Vestas and First solar told
investors profits will slump. Solyndra filed for bankruptcy in
September, touching off debate in Congress about whether the
government has any business subsidizing the industry.  Global oversupply battered wind and solar industries in the
past year as Germany, France and  Spain  trimmed support for the
technology. Prices for solar panels fell 51 percent in 2011, and
global purchases of  wind turbines  will fall 14 percent this year
from 2010 and won’t surpass 2011 levels for two years, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  “You will start to see a dearth of talent, and people will
leave this industry,” Goodman said. “We’re starting to see it
already.”  On Feb. 7, Vestas Chief Financial Officer Henrik Noerremark, 45, quit less than a month after he was promoted to
also serve as chief operating officer. Chairman Bent Erik Carlsen, Deputy Chairman Torsten Erik Rasmussen and board member
Freddy Frandsen also won’t stand for re-election, the company
said in a statement on Feb. 8.  Vestas Vacancies  That departures follows CEO Engel’s announcement on Jan. 12
that Vestas will cut 2,335 positions worldwide, or 10 percent of
its total. After reducing earnings forecasts four times in as
many years, the loss of 166 million euros ($220 million) in 2011
reported on Feb. 7 was four times wider than analysts had
estimated. Engel said it would be “unnatural” for him to leave
despite his performance.  “The right time to leave a company is not when it’s facing
challenges and is in trouble, it’s when things are going well,”
Engel said on Jan. 12. “Vestas is facing challenges now, both
externally and internally.”  With several open spots on the executive team, “a lot of
people are very interested in joining a company like Vestas,”
Engel said in a telephone interview from Aarhus on Feb. 8.  Bonus Crunch  Another hurdle is the reluctance of corporate boards to
offer big signing bonuses, said Guy Chaffin, president of Elite
Search International, a Roseville, California-based recruiting
firm that’s filled positions at First Solar and  Solar Millennium
AG (S2M) , a German company that filed for bankruptcy in December.  First Solar gave Rob Gillette $5 million in signing bonuses
to help induce him to take the CEO post and jump from  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  in 2009, according to filings. Gillette left
in October. The Tempe, Arizona-based company paid similar
bonuses to other executives, such as former legal counsel John
Gaffney, who was offered $14 million to join in 2007. He left
two years later to work at Solyndra.  “The brakes are on now because the search committee is
going to be under increased scrutiny,” Chaffin said, adding
that a CEO candidate “would have to bring some added value that
would improve their technology or open a new sales channel.”  First Solar is being run by Michael Ahearn, the chairman
and founder. As acting CEO, Ahearn is taking base pay of
$500,000 a year and didn’t get a signing bonus.  Stuck as CEO  Ahearn may be stuck in the job for a while, said Dawn
Dzurilla, founder and CEO of Gaia Human Capital Consultants, a
boutique renewable energy search firm that found a chief
financial officer in December for the solar developer Main
Street Power.  “First Solar will need to find a top-flight executive from
a public company, and the pool is really quite small,” she said
in an interview. “There aren’t nearly enough executives coming
into the clean  energy industry . How do we compete with the money
pouring into social networks and fossil fuels?”  First Solar, which declined to comment on the search, hired
Schweichler Price Mullarkey & Barry to find a new CEO, said Andy
Price, managing director at the Larkspur, California-based
recruiting company. “We are having no difficulty finding chief
executives that want to go to First Solar,” Price said today in
an interview.  Promising shares to executives is little inducement, she
said. The Bloomberg  Wind Energy  Index of 64 companies fell 22
percent in 2011 as Vestas  lost  65 percent of its market value.
First Solar’s market value plunged 74 percent last year, helping
 drag  the Bloomberg Industries Large Solar Energy Index of 17
companies down 68 percent.  Jobs are drying up across the industry. The end of a U.S.
grant program in December puts at risk more than 37,000 solar
jobs, about a third of the national total, according to the
Washington-based Solar Energy Industries Association. Vestas
says it will fire 1,600 in the U.S. unless incentives for wind
energy are extended.  Departing Executives  First Solar’s president of operations Bruce Sohn left in
April to join Fluidic Energy Inc., a startup developing metal-
air batteries. He quit in December.  Mark Morelli resigned as CEO of solar panel producer  Energy
Conversion Devices Inc. (ENER)  in May and this month started as chief
operating officer at  Brooks Automation Inc. (BRKS) , which makes
automation systems used in semiconductor manufacturing plants.
Energy Conversion replaced Morelli with Julian Hawkins, a former
senior vice president at Abound Solar Inc.  “There are a lot of folks who became disillusioned,” Fust
said. “The Solyndra failure, and the media storm that followed
it, has given a lot more folks cold feet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  