-- For China and the U.S., Better Living Through Chemistry: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-13T00:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/for-china-and-the-u-s-better-living-through-chemistry-view.html
Don’t expect any breakthrough deals
from this week’s meeting between the U.S. president and  China (CNGDPYOY) ’s
leader-in-waiting. In an election year for  Barack Obama  and Xi Jinping, who is in line to replace President  Hu Jintao  this
fall, the best outcome to hope for is good chemistry.  Given the tensions in the air, that can hardly be assured.
Consider Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s stump
bluster about how, on his “first day in office,” he will impose
tariffs on any Chinese goods that benefit from “unfair trade
practices.” Or the more than  five dozen  pieces of legislation
introduced in Congress in 2011 that took up Chinese behavior on
everything from rare earth mining to exports of American flags.
President Obama himself has occasionally shown a weakness for
tough talk. Vice President Xi also has made a few  brusque
pronouncements  on “foreigners with full bellies.”  The feel-good visits planned for Xi to California and  Iowa 
offer one way to rise above such acrimony. For Americans in
particular, the latter trip can be instructive. In 1985, Xi
visited Iowa when he was a provincial leader in  Hebei  to honor a
sister-state relationship, touring farms and baseball fields and
sharing views at the Rotary Club. Then, Xi was eager to learn
modern farming techniques. Now, Iowa does roadshows to  China  to
hawk its goods as U.S. growth wanes. Nor is Hebei the backwater
it was back then; its economy is bigger than  Hong Kong ’s.
Barring a serious crisis,  China’s economy  may be bigger than
America’s in 10 years.  China’s tremendous economic growth over the 27 years since
Xi’s Iowa trip has been a signal human achievement, lifting
hundreds of millions of Chinese out of poverty, and enabling
billions of consumers around the world to enjoy a higher
standard of living. That dynamism continues, and with it the
added double-edged benefit of Chinese savings still underwriting
U.S. profligacy.  Today, the U.S. and China share an enormous and widening
array of interests, such as maintaining peace on the Korean
peninsula, reducing greenhouse-gas emissions and preventing a
global financial meltdown. Just as the U.S. has sometimes seemed
oblivious to the enormous internal challenges that China faces,
so, too, China has resented or willfully ignored the reality of
the new responsibilities that it must shoulder.  The immediate task before Obama and Xi is to build a
relationship that will enable their countries to bridge that
perceptions gap. In that process, we imagine that Obama can turn
the harsh rhetoric of the Republican candidates to his advantage
-- something that must make former China hand George H.W. Bush
spin in his parachute. Moreover, the situations in Iran and
 Syria , not to mention recent abductions and killings of Chinese
workers in Egypt, Sudan and  Thailand , are forcing the Chinese to
re-examine their precepts about non-intervention, the importance
of upholding global norms and their own relative inability to
shape the situation on the ground. All those things can
contribute to a convergence of views.  The good news is that Xi, 58, seems better suited to
relationship-building than China’s current president. He’s
regarded as more affable and spontaneous. And his worldview is
colored by his years living in coastal provinces like Zhejiang,
home to some of China’s most successful entrepreneurs, such as
Zong Qinghou, a soft-drink merchant, and Li Shufu, founder of
automaker Geely International Corp. Many of the province’s
business owners pride themselves on succeeding without
government help, a dynamic China could use more of. Given Xi’s
background, for example, he should know China is imperiling its
future by letting  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the Information Age’s biggest
name, walk away and blocking Facebook Inc.  That’s not to say that the U.S. and China don’t have
different, competing and at times conflicting interests. We’ll
spare you the inevitable Valentine’s Day references: Obama and
Xi don’t have to love each other, but they do have to get along.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 