-- Foreclosure Windfall May Help U.S. States Prop Up Budgets, Tear Down Homes
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-02-13T12:52:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/foreclosure-windfall-may-help-u-s-states-prop-up-budgets-raze-houses.html
Wisconsin (STOWI1)  plans to use part of its
$140 million share of the national foreclosure settlement to
fill a budget hole.  Missouri (STOMO1)  would devote $40 million for
education.  Ohio (STOOH1)  wants to tear down vacant homes.  Ninety percent of the $25 billion settlement announced Feb.
9 goes to borrowers, with states receiving at least $2.66
billion, said Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney
General  Tom Miller , who helped negotiate the deal. The money for
states is to “help fund consumer protection and state
foreclosure-protection efforts,” according to the National
Mortgage Settlement  website , though states have discretion in
spending, and their tax bases and budgets were hurt by the
housing crash, Greenwood said in an e-mail.  Most states, especially those hit hard by foreclosures,
probably will spend the money on related purposes instead of
priorities that the public may not see as fitting the
settlement’s spirit, said David Adkins, executive director of
the Council of State Governments in Lexington,  Kentucky .  “If my home were in foreclosure, I would want to make
certain that the revenue in my state was directed at
ameliorating that specific problem,”Adkins said.  The deal, struck between 49 states and  Bank of America
Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Wells Fargo & Co. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
and Ally Financial Inc., ends a probe into abuses stemming from
the housing bubble’s collapse. It requires the banks to pay $20
billion to homeowners in mortgage relief and $5 billion to state
and federal governments. That includes the $2.66 billion,
according to the National Association of  Attorneys General .  ‘Not One Dime’  Hours after the settlement’s announcement,  Wisconsin ’s
Republican Governor  Scott Walker  and Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen said that $25.6 million of the state’s $140 million share
would be put toward a projected $143 million deficit.  That prompted a protest from Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, a
Democrat and Walker’s opponent in the gubernatorial election.  “Not one dime should be used to fund the unbalanced state
budget,” he said in a prepared statement. “Families and local
communities did not cause the foreclosure crisis, nor did they
have a hand in the mismanaged state budget.”  Missouri (STOMO1)  has similar plans. Democratic Governor Jay Nixon
and Attorney General Chris Koster said $40 million of its $155
million settlement would be set aside to lessen cuts to colleges
and universities.  Tom Kelley , a spokesman for  Texas (STOTX1)  Attorney General  Greg Abbott , said the Legislature will decide how to spend $141
million of its $428 million. Competition is taking shape.  Helping the Poor  “The best use of that money would be to restructure
loans,” said Molly Rogers, staff attorney with Austin-based
Texas Rio Grande Legal Aid Inc., which assists poor residents in
68 South Texas counties. “A good chunk of this money should go
to appropriate organizations who can help borrowers.”  In  New York (STONY1) , Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  said on
 MSNBC ’s “The Rachel Maddow Show” that most of the state’s
settlement money “is going for legal services for housing
counseling, so no  New Yorker  is ever wrongfully evicted because
they don’t have a lawyer.”  Financial conditions may change, altering the plans of
states. Arturo Perez, director of the fiscal affairs program at
the  National Conference of State Legislatures , said that in 1998
states were “flush” with money when they negotiated a
settlement with cigarette companies that provided $206 billion
over 25 years.  While states intended to use the money for health care and
anti-smoking programs, “they started looking around and put
their eyes on the tobacco settlement money” when the economy
softened in 2001, Perez said.  With a Thud  The 18-month recession that began in December 2007 ravaged
state budgets. Shortfalls in 2009 through 2012 totaled more than
$530 billion nationwide,  according to  the Center for Budget and
Policy Priorities.  Financial conditions have improved “but at a very slow
pace,” the Conference of Legislatures said in a Dec. 1  report ,
adding that “the effects of the Great Recession continue to
linger.”  “State revenues fell like a bowling ball and they have
bounced back, much like a bowling ball,” Perez said in a
telephone interview from Denver.  The deficits and foreclosures have left states and
municipalities racing to catch up with years of decay.  Ohio , which is receiving $97 million in its direct payment
from last week’s settlement, plans to allocate $75 million to
demolish vacant and dilapidated homes dragging down the values
of neighboring properties, Attorney General Mike DeWine said
Feb. 9.  Destroying the Village  At least 100,000 homes need to be demolished, DeWine said,
and he is establishing a program to match funds that cities and
land banks allocate for tearing down houses.  Using the settlement money for that purpose is appropriate
because many homeowners are paying their mortgages and did
nothing wrong, yet they face plummeting property values because
of foreclosures around them, said Jim Rokakis, a former Cuyahoga
County treasurer who directs  Cleveland ’s nonprofit Thriving
Communities Institute.  “If you don’t take these homes down, these neighborhoods
will continue to lose what little value they have left, they
will be less safe and there will be zero chance of those
neighborhoods coming back,” Rokakis said in a Feb. 9 telephone
interview. “You can’t build the new American city until you
take the old one down first.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  