-- Foxconn Cancels Convertible Bond Sale Amid European Crisis
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-02-13T09:16:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/foxconn-cancels-plan-to-sell-convertible-bonds-citing-market-conditions.html
Foxconn Technology Co. (2354) , a maker of
metal casings for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , canceled a plan to sell as much as
NT$8 billion ($271 million) in  convertible bonds , citing the
effect of  Europe ’s debt crisis on credit markets.  The application to the financial regulator to sell the
securities was withdrawn, the Taipei-based company said in an
exchange filing today. The company’s operations and outlook
remain strong, it said. Spokesmen C.K. Liu and Jack Huang didn’t
answer calls to their office today.  Foxconn, which  supplies  the metal cases for Apple’s iPad
and MacBooks, is looking to expand capacity and increase output
for new products including ultrabooks, high-end  notebook
computers  with thin metal shells, from  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and
 Acer Inc. (2353)  The unit of Foxconn Technology Group, the world’s
largest custom electronics maker, still needs cash, said Angela Hsiang, who rates the stock “outperform” at KGI Securities Co.
in Taipei.  “They’ve been riding on  Apple’s growth  trend to move into
ultrabook cases, and they need this cash to expand their
capacity,” Hsiang said. The company also assembles game
consoles for Nintendo Co., she said.  Foxconn Technology has NT$2.2 billion of bond payments due
this year, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The company
had NT$24.5 billion in cash and equivalents at the end of
September, with NT$18 billion in short-term borrowings and other
short-term liabilities, excluding accounts payable, according to
 data compiled by Bloomberg.   Metal Casings  The company  rose 2.7 percent to NT$134.50 at the close in
Taipei trading, reversing a decline of as much as 3.4 percent.
The benchmark Taiex index added 0.6 percent.  Foxconn, 10 percent directly owned by iPhone and iPad maker
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., supplies around 95 percent of
its metal casings output to Apple, said Allen Chang, who rates
the stock “neutral” at Barclays Capital Inc.  A cancellation of a convertible bond sale may result in the
company switching to a straight bond offering, a move which
could be positive for the shares because a convertibles issuance
may dilute the stock, Chang said.  Nine of 16 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg recommend
investors “buy” the stock while two say “sell” and five have
a “hold” recommendation.  European Union financial markets have been pummeled by
concern that  Greece  may default on its sovereign debt and pull
out of the euro pact.  Countries including Greece, Portugal, Spain and Ireland
have all been straining to meet sovereign debt payments because
of budget deficits that widened after the last recession crimped
tax receipts. Portugal, Ireland and Greece received EU bailouts
in exchange for pledges to slash spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 