-- France Telecom Egypt Venture Buyout to Cost $2 Billion
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-02-16T10:30:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/france-telecom-to-buy-most-of-orascom-telecom-stake-in-egypt-s-mobinil-ecm.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  may spend about $2
billion to buy most of billionaire Naguib Sawiris’s stake in
their Egyptian wireless venture and delist the operator.  France ’s largest telecommunications company reached a
preliminary agreement with Sawiris’s  Orascom Telecom Media &
Technology Holding SAE  over  Egyptian Co. for Mobile Services ,
the operator known as Mobinil, at 202.5 Egyptian pounds ($33.54)
a share, it said today. That’s 8.7 percent less than the price
it would have paid under an earlier option agreement with
Sariwis. France Telecom will offer the same price for Mobinil
shares traded on the Cairo exchange. Mobinil jumped by a daily
limit of 10 percent today.  France Telecom is refocusing its business on fast-growing
 emerging markets  as mobile revenue in Europe stalls. The Paris-
based company has announced the sale of its units in  Switzerland 
and  Austria , and in the past two years struck deals to enter
Morocco, Iraq and the Democratic Republic of Congo.  “In the long run,  Africa  should be an interesting story,”
said Tarkan Cinar, an analyst at WestLB AG. “In the short term
there is a risk of extra capex, because we don’t know what
investments France Telecom will have to make in  Egypt  to renew
any damaged infrastructure.”  Sawiris’s Stake  Sawiris plans to retain a 5 percent “economic interest”
in the Cairo-based operator, France Telecom said today. The
Mobinil shares France Telecom aims to take over are valued at
11.9 billion Egyptian pounds ($2 billion) based on the offer
price. If the public tender succeeds, Mobinil will be delisted.  Mobinil, which competes with  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s local
unit,  rose  10 percent to 137.89 pounds at 12:27 p.m. in Cairo.
France Telecom added 0.2 percent to 11.27 euros in Paris.  As part of a settlement in April 2010, Sawiris gained an
option to sell his stake in the operator to France Telecom
during certain periods beginning in September 2012, at a price
that would increase over time from 221.7 Egyptian pounds per
share later this year to 248.5 pounds next year.  Orascom holds a 20 percent stake in Mobinil, while about 29
percent is traded on the Cairo stock exchange. The holding
company controlled by France Telecom and Orascom owns the rest.  Doubling Revenue  France Telecom  owns about 71 percent of Mobinil Telecom
Co., the holding company, while Orascom owns the remainder.
Orascom confirmed the agreement in a separate statement today.  In 2010, France Telecom Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard set a goal of doubling emerging market revenue by 2015,
from about 3.3 billion euros ($4.4 billion) in 2009. Revenue in
Egypt has suffered as the economy stalls following last year’s
violent ouster of former president  Hosni Mubarak  and subsequent
clashes between pro-democracy activists and the interim military
government.  Still, the country -- the Arab world’s most populous, with
more than 80 million inhabitants -- is among the largest
developing economies in which France Telecom has a presence, and
represents a key part of its Middle Eastern strategy, which
includes operations in  Jordan , Tunisia, and Bahrain.  For his part, Sawiris has become an important political
figure in post-revolution Egypt, founding the pro-business Free
Egyptians political party and criticizing Islamist influence in
politics. He has recently pursued investments in Switzerland,
where he bid for France Telecom’s local unit, and Austria, where
he has teamed with investor Ronny Pecik to take a more than 20
percent stake in  Telekom Austria AG. (TKA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  