-- France, Belgium Lift Short-Selling Ban on Financial Stocks
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-02-13T15:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/france-s-short-selling-ban-reaches-end-of-three-month-term.html
France and Belgium ended bans on the
short-selling of financial stocks, the countries’ financial
markets regulators said today.  The French curbs, barring short sales on companies
including France’s biggest banks  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , expired Feb. 11 and haven’t
been renewed, France’s Autorite des Marches Financiers said in a
statement on its website without giving further reasons for the
decision.  “The lower volatility of the markets” made the ban no
longer necessary, Belgium’s Financial Services and Markets
Authority said in its statement.  France, Belgium, Spain and  Italy  moved to ban short selling
in August in an effort to stabilize markets after European banks
including Societe Generale hit their lowest levels since the
credit crisis of 2008.  The  European Securities and Markets Authority , which
coordinates markets policy in the region, “has been informed”
of the French and Belgian actions, ESMA Spokesman Reemt Seibel
said in a telephone interview today.  Both  France  and Belgium have bans on so-called naked short-
selling that remain in force.  April Group, CIC, CNP Assurances SA, Euler Hermes SA,
Natixis SA, and Scor SE were also covered by the French ban. The
AMF reiterated that it requires disclosure of short positions
under rules adopted last February. France also restricted short
sales in 2008 after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.  Short-sellers sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them
back later at a lower price, a practice politicians and some
investors blame for roiling markets. The practice is known as
“naked” when sellers haven’t first taken steps to ensure that
they can borrow the securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  