-- Garuda’s Wait for 777s Prolongs Use of Fuel-Guzzling Planes
-- B y   N e i l   D e n s l o w   a n d   F e m i   A d i
-- 2012-02-13T12:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/garuda-can-t-replace-aging-aircraft-quick-enough.html
PT Garuda Indonesia (GIAA) , the nation’s
largest listed carrier, said it can’t get new Boeing Co. 777
planes quickly enough as it tries to boost yields on long-haul
routes.  “We need 777s immediately, but they’re not available right
now,” Chief Executive Officer Emirsyah Satar said today in an
interview in  Singapore , ahead of the city-state’s airshow.
“Therefore, we cannot really renew our fleet quickly enough.”  The carrier is due to receive the first three of 10 on-
order 777s next year, which it will use on routes to  Europe  and
the  Middle East . The planes will help Garuda raise fares and
lower costs by replacing older 747-400s that are less fuel
efficient and offer fewer features for passengers.  “Indonesians will pay more if they get more,” Satar said.
With the 747s, “we really cannot get a good yield, as the
aircraft are old aircraft.”  Garuda, based in Jakarta, will also this week sign an order
for  Bombardier Inc. (BB/D)  regional jets to help bolster operations on
smaller islands in  Indonesia . The contract will comprise 18 firm
orders and 18 options, Satar said. The airline intends to take
25 of the planes by 2015, he said.  The carrier has locked in all of its plane-financing needs
through next year using export-credit agencies and lessors,
Satar said. It also raised 4.8 trillion rupiah ($530 million) in
an initial public offering about a year ago.  Garuda is now at looking for funding for planes arriving
from 2014, and the “response has been quite positive,” Satar
said.  The  airline ’s shares fell 1.6 percent to 610 rupiah in
Jakarta trading today. They’ve jumped 28 percent this year.  Indonesia Growth  Garuda expects to boost sales 21 percent this year from an
unaudited total of 27.1 trillion rupiah in 2011, as growth
stokes travel. The nation’s economy grew 6.46 percent in 2011,
the fastest pace since before the Asian financial crisis.  The airline is facing rising competition from low-cost
carriers led by PT Lion Mentari Airlines, which expected to
boost passenger numbers 30 percent last year to 27 million. The
closely held airline has agreed to a provisional order for 230
Boeing Co. 737 planes worth $21.7 billion at list prices.  Tiger Airways Holdings Ltd., part-owned by Singapore
Airlines Ltd., also last month completed the purchase of a 33
percent stake in PT Mandala Airlines to enter the Indonesian
market.  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s largest budget carrier,
already has an affiliate in the country.  Garuda’s own budget arm, Citilink, expects to almost triple
sales this year and to more than double passenger numbers to as
many as 4 million. The unit is due to receive 11 new Airbus
planes this year, roughly doubling its fleet, as it works to add
about four new domestic cities to its network.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net ;
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  