-- European Leaders ‘Confident’ Greece Meeting Bailout Demands
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-13T16:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/germany-hails-greek-austerity-vote-as-eu-ministers-prepare-for-aid-talks.html
Germany  and the European Commission
welcomed Greek approval of the austerity steps demanded for a
financial lifeline, suggesting euro finance chiefs will pull
Greece back from the brink when they meet in two days.  The Greek parliament’s backing “is a crucial step forward
toward the adoption of the second program,” EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in
Brussels today. “I’m confident that the other conditions,
including for instance the identification of the concrete
measures of 325 million euros ($430 million), will be completed
by the next meeting” of finance ministers.  Euro-area finance chiefs will convene in Brussels on Feb.
15 for their second extraordinary meeting on Greece in a week.
Frustrated after two years of missed budget targets, ministers
declined to ratify the 130 billion-euro package in a special
session on Feb. 9, demanding that Greek officials put their
verbal commitments into law.  “It’s important for now to complete this program -- and
the passage in the Greek parliament yesterday was very
important,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in Berlin.
“The finance ministers will meet again on Wednesday to
undertake the work on this, but there can’t and the won’t be any
changes to the program.”  ‘Greek Uncertainties’  Global stocks and the euro rose after the Greek lawmakers
passed the plan in the early hours of today as rioters battled
police and set fire to buildings in downtown Athens. By siding
with Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  to back the austerity
measures, legislators probably did enough to win the second
bailout on Feb. 15, said  Christian Schulz , senior economist at
Berenberg Bank in  London .  “Whether or not the vote will reduce Greek uncertainties
for long is a very open question,” Schulz said.  Pending approval of the bailout by euro finance chiefs this
week, attention will shift to national capitals. Merkel plans to
ask German lawmakers to vote on it Feb. 27. Other euro
governments including the Netherlands and  Finland  have yet to
schedule a date for parliamentary votes.  “There still is a risk that the whole process derails, but
I think we’ll get the package together by the summit” of
European leaders on March 1, Carsten Brzeski, senior economist
at ING Group in Brussels, said by phone.  Falling Short  Still, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told
German lawmakers on Feb. 10 that Greece was set to miss deficit
goals. Schaeuble said that current plans would leave Greece’s
debt as high as 136 percent of gross domestic product by 2020,
according to two people in the meeting. That compares with the
120 percent foreseen in the second bailout, down from about 160
percent last year.  Greek political leaders must provide written assurances of
their support for measures and policies in return for new
financing for the country, government spokesman Pantelis Kapsis
told reporters in  Athens .  More than two years after the debt crisis emerged in
Greece, European leaders face international pressure to do more
to tackle the source of contagion that threatens to drag down
the global economy. Group of 20 nations have signaled they won’t
reach a consensus on crisis aid for  Europe  via the  International
Monetary Fund  at a Feb. 24-26 meeting of G-20 finance chiefs
until Europe increases the size of its firewall.  ‘Devastating Consequences’  “A disorderly default of Greece would be a much worse
outcome with devastating consequences for the Greek society,
especially the weaker members of the Greek society,” Rehn said.
“It would of course also have very negative ramifications
through the contagion effect and chain-reactions through the
whole European economy.”  In Athens yesterday, Prime Minister Papademos appealed to
Greeks to support new measures before the final debate began.
The steps include a 22 percent reduction in the minimum wage,
smaller pensions and immediate job cuts for as many as 15,000
state workers.  Part of the rescue includes a bond swap intended to slice
 Greece ’s debt load. The swap for new 30-year bonds with an
average coupon of as low as 3.6 percent would cut 100 billion
euros off more than 200 billion euros of privately held debt.
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said the country needs to
make a formal offer to private bondholders for a debt swap by
Feb. 17.  Greece “will be saved in one way or another,” Schaeuble
told newspaper Welt am Sonntag yesterday, though the country
must still “do its homework.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net . 