-- DAX Index Advances; Commerzbank, Deutsche Bank Lead on Greek Approval
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-02-13T17:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/german-stocks-advance-commerzbank-deutsche-bank-lead-gains.html
German stocks  gained, rebounding
from last week’s decline, after Greece approved austerity
measures to secure an international bailout.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  advanced 1.6 percent, while Allianz AG rose
1.3 percent.  Bilfinger Berger SE (GBF) , Germany’s second-largest
builder, and  Hannover Re (HNR1) , the world’s fourth-biggest reinsurer,
rose after their earnings beat forecasts.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  climbed
after Morgan Stanley advised buying the carmaker’s stock.  The  DAX (DAX)  Index rose 0.7 percent to 6,738.47 at the close of
trade in Frankfurt, following its first weekly decline in eight
weeks. The DAX has jumped 14 percent this year amid speculation
the global economy will withstand the impact of the euro area’s
debt crisis and as central banks acted to fuel growth. The
broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  added 0.6 percent today.  “We don’t think though that the Greek situation has the
potential to completely destabilize the markets as it could have
last summer, especially given far more aggressive ECB
participation,”  Mislav Matejka , European equities strategist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London, wrote in a report today.
“Medium term, we think the case for an asset allocation shift
back into equities is becoming compelling.”  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won parliamentary
approval for austerity measures to secure an international
bailout after rioters protesting the measures battled police and
set fire to buildings in downtown Athens.  The  Stoxx 600 Banks Index  has surged 17 percent this year
even as Greece continued talks with bondholders for a debt-swap
agreement.  Commerzbank, the lender bailed out by Germany in 2008,
gained 1.6 percent to 2.09 euros. Allianz, Europe’s largest
insurer, climbed 1.3 percent to 88.08 euros.  Bilfinger Earnings  Bilfinger Berger advanced 1.9 percent to 72.44 euros, its
first gain in six sessions. The builder reported full-year net
income of 394 million euros ($522 million), beating the average
estimate for profit of 374 million euros in a Bloomberg poll of
analysts. Bilfinger said it had a “positive” outlook for 2012.  “The results beat was broad based; all divisions delivered
results above our expectations,”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  wrote in a
report following the release. “The combination of a moderate
result beat, a positive outlook and a strong dividend proposal
are clearly positive and underpin our investment case.”  The stock reached a record high of 73.85 euros on Feb. 6.  Hannover Re (HNR1)  rose 1.2 percent to 41.95 euros. The reinsurer
said last year’s earnings “comfortably surpass” its profit
target, helped by investment gains. Net income was about 600
million euros in 2011,  Hannover Re  said in a statement today,
citing preliminary figures. That beat the 520 million-euro
estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Volkswagen (VOW) , Europe’s largest carmaker by market value,
climbed 2.1 percent to 129.9 euros. Full ownership of Porsche AG
should boost VW earnings by 8 percent in 2013 and its shares’
value by 8 euros apiece, according to Morgan Stanley analysts.  A team of analysts at Morgan Stanley led by  Stuart Pearson 
in  London  reiterated an “overweight” recommendation on
Volkswagen shares in a report today entitled “Porsche’s
Valentine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  