-- Giants-Jets MetLife Stadium Chief Lamping Hired to Be Jaguars’ President
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-02-13T16:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/giants-jets-metlife-stadium-chief-lamping-hired-to-be-jaguars-president.html
Mark Lamping will become president
of the National Football League’s  Jacksonville Jaguars  after
running the  New York Giants  and Jets’ shared $1.6 billion
stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  Lamping spent four years as president and chief executive
of the teams’ joint venture, now called MetLife Stadium, where
he supervised development, construction and business operations.
Lamping also worked to attract the Super Bowl title game to the
stadium in 2014.  “This is a very important and exciting development in the
rebirth of the Jacksonville Jaguars,” owner  Shahid Khan  said in
a news release. “Mark will bring to the Jaguars and to the
Jacksonville community a mix of sports and brand marketing,
stadium management expertise and team front-office leadership
that is very difficult to find in one person.”  Lamping, a native of  St. Louis , was president of that
city’s Major League Baseball Cardinals between 1994 and 2008. He
previously worked at Anheuser-Busch between 1981 and 1993,
eventually as group director of sports marketing.  The Jaguars finished last season 5-11. In November, owner
Wayne Weaver fired coach Jack Del Rio and said he was selling
the team. The next month, NFL owners approved the sale to Khan,
the owner of auto-parts maker Flex-N-Gate Corp., who said he
plans to keep the franchise in the northeast Florida city.  The Jaguars hired Mike Mularkey as coach last month.
General Manager  Gene Smith  will continue to report directly to
Kahn.  “The Jacksonville Jaguars have vast potential, and I’m
honored that Shad Khan is asking me to play a leadership role in
reaching that potential,” Lamping said in the release. “We
have the opportunity to revitalize the franchise and build
something special, memorable and hopefully history for the
league, our partners and especially Jaguars fans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 