-- Gillard Faces Eroding Popularity as Report Revives Rudd Tensions
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-02-14T03:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/gillard-faces-renewed-leadership-tension-with-rudd-on-report-1-.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  faces a
new hurdle to reviving her popularity after a documentary
questioned her version of when she decided to challenge
predecessor Kevin Rudd for leadership of the  Labor Party .  The Australian Broadcasting Corp. program aired yesterday
cited unidentified sources in the Labor Party as saying
Gillard’s staff prepared a victory speech two weeks before she
ousted Rudd in June 2010. Gillard, Australia’s first female
leader, reiterated that she decided to seek party leadership the
day she ousted Rudd, she said on ABC radio today.  “This revelation will cause a bit more erosion to her
credibility,” said Rick Kuhn, a political analyst at the
 Australian National University  in Canberra. “Gillard’s
underlying problem is more her government’s fundamental
policies, and even a shift to Rudd wouldn’t erase those.”  The documentary comes amid reports that Rudd plans to
challenge Gillard for the leadership of the party as her public
approval slips. Support for Gillard fell 3 percentage points to
37 percent, according to a Newspoll survey published today in
the Australian newspaper, while backing for opposition leader
 Tony Abbott  rose 3 points to 40 percent.  The survey of 1,141 people conducted Feb. 10-12 had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. Gillard
denied seeking her approval speech to be written ahead of her
toppling Rudd in the documentary yesterday and again today on
the ABC radio program.  ‘Rudd’s Office’  “I didn’t direct the speech and the decision I made about
seeking the Labor leadership was made on the day that I walked
into  Kevin Rudd ’s office and discussed with him having a ballot
for the leadership,” Gillard said on ABC radio. She declined to
specify when she saw a draft of the speech.  A challenge from Rudd is possible by the end of March, the
Australian newspaper reported Feb. 3 without citing anyone. On
the same day, The Age newspaper said Gillard’s supporters in the
party feared there had been a “seismic shift” against her
towards Rudd, without naming its sources.  Gillard is also facing criticism from Abbott on her plan to
introduce a carbon tax and her handling of the economy. The
opposition Liberal National coalition leader has highlighted
that last year the nation recorded its worst jobs growth in 19
years as a higher currency made manufacturers uncompetitive.  Lower Forecast  Australia ’s central bank lowered its 2012 forecast for
economic growth on Feb. 10, three days after keeping  interest
rates  unchanged following consecutive reductions of 25 basis
points in November and December.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7302)  and General
Motors Co. have cut jobs in Australia this year, citing the
currency’s strength, while  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  is reviewing the future of
an aluminum smelter.  Gillard, 50, has forged agreements with the Greens party
and independent lawmakers on proposed legislation such as a 30
percent tax on coal and iron-ore profits since she took office.  Senior government ministers have rallied around Gillard
amid falling approval ratings, with Defense Minister Stephen
Smith telling Sky News on Feb. 3 he was a “strong supporter.”
Treasurer and deputy leader Wayne Swan and Manufacturing
Minister  Kim Carr  have also backed Gillard.  Labor Party members moved to depose Rudd, 52, in June of
2010 as his public support fell amid a backlash from mining
companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  Rudd had proposed a 40
percent tax on resources profits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  