-- Ginsburg’s Right, U.S. Constitution Is a Bad Model: Noah Feldman
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-02-13T00:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/ginsburg-s-right-u-s-constitution-a-bad-model-commentary-by-noah-feldman.html
U.S.  Supreme Court  Justice Felix Frankfurter had a close shave with public embarrassment recently
-- which might seem impossible for a man who has been dead for
almost 33 years.  Here’s why: In the late 1940s, Frankfurter advised B.N.
Rau, the chief draftsman of the Indian Constitution, not to
include a due process clause such as the one that the U.S.
Constitution cribbed from  Magna Carta . The concept was viewed as
an inspiring-yet-vague term that had plagued arguments of the
U.S. Supreme Court for two generations. Rau listened, omitting
the clause, which had previously enjoyed support from the other
drafters, and  India  was better for it.  At the time, this sort of advice was considered a service
to democracy.  Today, however, such advice is treated as a national
scandal. Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  has spent the last two
weeks in  hot water  for telling an Egyptian TV interviewer that
 Egypt  might do better to emulate the up-to-date South African
constitution rather than our 223-year-old model.  Insecure Americans  Why the uproar? It is not only that shameless politicians
today will take any opportunity to criticize any public figure
identified with the other party -- even a 79-year-old justice
who is a legitimate national hero. The worry goes deeper, to the
roots of America’s present insecurity and fear of its own
decline.  A study to be  published this summer  in the New York
University Law Review shows that the U.S. Constitution is now
copied less frequently by countries writing new constitutions
than in the immediate aftermath of World War II, the peak
measured by the study’s authors, David S. Law of  Washington
University  in  St. Louis  and Mila Versteeg of the  University of
Virginia .  The implicit fear, made manifest by a posse of
commentators, is that our constitutional “soft power” is in
decline -- much as our hard power is perceived to be faltering.  Fortunately, this worry is unfounded. A better measure of
the influence of the U.S. model would be to study how much other
countries copy our constitutional system, not the literal text
of our Constitution. By that standard, the Philadelphia
consensus is more influential than ever.  Consider judicial review, undoubtedly the fastest-growing
trend in new constitutions around the world. The practice of
justices reviewing legislation and being able to overturn
measures they deem in violation of the constitution was born in
the U.S. It represents a radical innovation in constitutional
design. And everyone seems to love it -- even Islamists who
think that their constitutional courts should review legislation
to make sure it conforms to the values of Islamic law.  But the words “judicial review” appear nowhere in the
U.S. Constitution. The practice is an innovation introduced in
1803 by the Supreme Court under Chief Justice  John Marshall  in
the now famous case of  Marbury v. Madison . Marshall claimed that
judicial review was required by the very structure of a written
constitution with a judiciary charged to “say what the law
is.” Yet this itself was an act of interpretation, one that has
not been uncontroversial in our history. And the Supreme Court
exercised this power extraordinarily sparingly until the modern
era.  Policing Constitutionality  Once the court was in the business of policing
constitutionality, it developed a set of rules for doing so. The
most prominent -- the bane of law students everywhere -- is the
so-called balancing test, which asks if an abridgment of
constitutional rights is justified by a compelling government
interest, and is narrowly tailored to achieve that interest.  Constitutions all over the world require similar balancing.
But the newer ones typically copy the Canadian constitution,
which provides more detailed (and very useful) instructions for
how this balancing should take place. Countries might prefer to
follow the U.S. model -- but they couldn’t even if they wanted
to. Balancing tests are never mentioned in the U.S.
Constitution. Indeed, the document presents our rights as
absolute -- even though common sense dictates that it must be
possible to abridge the free speech of someone who falsely
shouts fire in a crowded theater.  So why are some Americans worried if the language of the
U.S. Constitution is copied less frequently than it once was?
The answer lies in the very thing that drafters of new
constitutions are trying to avoid: the fight among the Supreme
Court justices about originalism. Today’s analogue to the old
wars over due process, the originalism debate pits those who
claim it is possible to recover and apply the framers’ intended
meaning against those who believe that the document must be
treated as a living thing, growing and developing in keeping
with changing needs, institutions and circumstances.  The truth is that no sane constitution-drafters would want
the future court of their country to spend its time arguing
about what they really meant -- or even about public perception
of what they meant. Debates about what the Constitution
originally meant become proxies for arguments about what the
Constitution ought to mean.  Subjective History  Today, Justices Antonin Scalia and  Clarence Thomas 
regularly find that the original meaning leads to conservative
conclusions. Yet Frankfurter’s antagonist, Justice Hugo Black,
was an originalist who used history to generate liberal results.
None of these justices was making up the past; but none was
engaged in “objective” history either.  This is why Ginsburg was telling the Egyptians to borrow
from modern constitutions -- because they spell out the answers
to contemporary problems. If a constitution is fresh from the
box, judges don’t have to channel historical figures to decide
whether violent video games are a form of free speech, or
whether owning handguns is covered by the right to bear arms for
the purposes of preserving a well-regulated militia.  When Ruth Ginsburg was a brilliant young law school
graduate, she was recommended to Frankfurter as a law clerk.
Frankfurter had hired the first African-American Supreme Court
clerk, but he turned Ginsburg down -- because she was a woman.
In retrospect, one suspects, Frankfurter would have acknowledged
his mistake. And he would have applauded Ginsburg’s advice to
new drafters. When it comes to constitutions, the lesson is do
as we do, not as we say.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 