-- GM Profits, but Taxpayers Are Still on the Hook: Shikha Dalmia
-- B y   S h i k h a   D a l m i a
-- 2012-02-13T00:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/gm-profits-but-taxpayers-are-still-on-the-hook-shikha-dalmia.html
Three years after being rescued by a
taxpayer bailout,  General Motors (GM)  last week announced some rather
ambitious profit targets for 2012. But even if it meets these
targets -- a big if -- taxpayers should not wait on one foot to
recover their remaining “investment” in the company.  There is no doubt that GM has returned from the brink. It
made $8 billion last year, a record high, and regained enough
global market share to once again become the world’s biggest
automaker, a title it had lost to Toyota. More impressive, it is
planning to bump its profit margins from 6 percent last year to
10 percent this year, on par with its best-in-class rivals such
as Hyundai and BMW. This, it hopes, will allow it to post $10
billion in profits this year, something that only 17 public
companies managed to do in 2010.  How did investors react to all this hope and cheer? With a
giant yawn: GM’s  stock price , which has been hovering around $25
for months, barely budged. That’s $8 below GM’s IPO price. And
it’s $30 below what’s needed for taxpayers to recover the $30
billion they still have stuck in the company.  Investor Caution  If investors aren’t buying GM’s rosy scenarios, it’s for
some good reasons. Peter De Lorenzo, editor of  Auto Extremist ,
notes that GM is facing the most competitive market in history
and investors are dubious that it can deliver. GM’s $8 billion
in profits last year resulted partly from the tsunami in  Japan 
that disrupted Toyota and Honda’s global supply chain.  Both are back this year and more formidable than ever.
While GM reported a 6 percent drop in January sales in  North
America  from a year earlier, its foreign competitors posted
impressive gains. GM will have a hard time matching last year’s
performance, let alone upping it if it has even one more month
like January, De Lorenzo notes.  Tougher competition in North America is not GM’s only
worry. Its sales in  China  are slowing. Also,  Europe  will
probably remain a trouble spot. GM suffered $2 billion in losses
in Europe last year, thanks to Opel, its hopelessly bloated
German brand. But GM has been unable to obtain permission from
the German government to restructure its labor costs, even as
European sales plummet in an economic meltdown.  Toyota (TM)  and Honda don’t have the same exposure in Europe and
hence have less to worry about. What’s more, GM’s global  pension
obligations  are underfunded to the tune of $22 billion, about
$10 billion in the  United States  alone.  If GM manages to address all these issues, notes  Sean McAlinden  of the  Center for Automotive Research , its share price
might go up $40 to $45, leaving taxpayers still $5 billion to $8
billion in the red. But that’s under the best scenario. If stock
prices remain at the current $25 level, the losses could mount
up to $15 billion. That’s not counting the $15 billion in tax
write-offs that GM got as part of the bankruptcy deal. All in
all, taxpayers are facing somewhere from $20 billion to $30
billion in losses.  That’s not all the exposure that taxpayers will have going
forward. The GM bailout has distorted the playing field so badly
that its competitors are demanding their own handouts to even
things out.  For example, McAlinden notes, the administration gave GM
about $10 billion more than was strictly necessary to finance
its bankruptcy. The money contributed to GM’s nice $33 billion
cash cushion right now. GM could use this money to buy its own
stock and bid up prices, mitigating taxpayer losses -- or pay
dividends. But McAlinden doesn’t believe that’s what GM will do.
It could use the money to pay off its obligations to the union
health-care trust fund, making this a direct infusion of cash
from taxpayers to unions.  Or it will use the money toward product development,
putting its competitors at a disadvantage. Moreover, because all
but $10 billion of the bailout money GM got was in the form of
equity, the company has no debt service costs.  Ford (F) , by
contrast, is still servicing the $23 billion in debt it took to
avoid a bailout.  Chrysler’s Pique  This is unfair, and the Obama administration knows it,
which is perhaps one reason it quickly approved a $5.6 billion
retooling loan for Ford. That, in turn, elicited howls of
protest from Chrysler’s  Sergio Marchionne . The administration
gave Marchionne’s parent company, Fiat, the majority stake in
Chrysler without asking Fiat to contribute a single euro of its
own.  Yet Mr. Marchionne complains that the administration hasn’t
been generous enough. In contrast with GM, it forced Chrysler to
service the bailout loan. Now it’s dragging its feet in
approving Chrysler’s new retooling loans, he claims.  Bailout supporters maintain that it was a one-time deal
necessary to shore up companies in acute economic times. In
reality, the rush for the bailout’s spoils has produced ripple
effects that may well haunt the economy for a long time.  As President Barack Obama campaigns to keep his job, he
will spin the bailout as a success story that saved millions of
American jobs. But taxpayers should bear in mind that the hit to
their wallets will be substantial and will probably grow in
years to come.  ( Shikha Dalmia  is a senior analyst at Reason Foundation and
a columnist at The Daily. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Shikha Dalmia at  shikha.dalmia@reason.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 