-- Goldman Sachs Profit Estimate Rises 21% at ISI on Cobalt’s Angola Oil Find
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-13T14:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/goldman-sachs-profit-estimate-rises-21-at-isi-on-cobalt-s-angola-oil-find.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s first-
quarter profit estimate was raised 21 percent at International
Strategy & Investment Group Inc. after an oil discovery near
 Angola  boosted the value of one of the firm’s investments.  Ed Najarian, an analyst at ISI, raised his earnings per
share estimate to $3.50 from $2.90, according to a research note
he distributed yesterday. Najarian cited the higher value of
 Cobalt International Energy Inc. (CIE) , a Houston-based deep-water oil
explorer whose stock surged 33 percent on Feb. 10 after it said
test results at an oil discovery off the coast of Angola were
better than expected.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, owns
19 percent of Cobalt through one of the firm’s private-equity
funds. Najarian estimates that 70 percent of the investment was
made with client money, with about 30 percent -- or about 6
percent of Cobalt -- owned by Goldman Sachs itself. At the
current price, Cobalt could provide Goldman Sachs with a $365
million private-equity gain, Najarian wrote.  “Overall, we now estimate that private-equity and debt
gains should cause Goldman’s total investing and lending revenue
to jump to about $2 billion” in the first quarter, Najarian
wrote. The gains probably won’t recur and the firm may fall
short of consensus earnings in subsequent quarters, Najarian
wrote, so he kept his “hold” recommendation on the stock. The
shares advanced 1.2 percent to $115.51 at 9:40 a.m. in  New York .  Effect on Volatility  Najarian’s analysis underscores the volatility of Goldman
Sachs’s earnings created by investment losses and gains in the
firm’s private-equity funds, which have traditionally received
about 30 percent of their money from the firm. Under the so-
called Volcker rule being drafted by regulators, banks like
Goldman Sachs would be prohibited from contributing more than 3
percent of the money in a private-equity or hedge fund.  David A. Viniar, Goldman Sachs’s chief financial officer,
said in a presentation to investors last week that the change
may mean that swings in the firm’s return on equity, or ROE, are
smaller because revenue from fund-management fees will be more
consistent than revenue from investment gains and losses.  “Interestingly, our ROE does not change materially,”
Viniar said on Feb. 8, describing a hypothetical analysis of the
firm’s results under the Volcker rule. “But the range of
outcomes is much narrower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 