-- Google Wins European Union Approval to Buy Motorola Mobility
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-02-14T01:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/google-wins-european-union-approval-to-buy-motorola-mobility-1-.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the biggest maker of
smartphone software, won European Union approval for its $12.5
billion acquisition of  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  to arm
itself with patents to protect the Android operating system.  While the European Commission said Google’s planned
purchase of Motorola Mobility didn’t raise competition concerns,
EU antitrust chief  Joaquin Almunia  said he’s “concerned” by
phone makers using patent litigation to block rivals.  “We are aware of the increasingly strategic use of patents
in the sector and are vigilant,” Almunia said in an e-mailed
statement. “We can avoid a continuation of this patent war,”
he told reporters in Brussels.  The U.S. Justice Department today also gave antitrust
approval to the transaction.  Google cited patent disputes as key to its agreement to buy
 Motorola Mobility (MMI)  and its trove of 17,000 patents. Apple Inc.,
maker of the iPhone, and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , developer of Windows
Phone software, have targeted phones that run on Google’s best-
selling Android system, including handsets built by Motorola
Mobility,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  HTC Corp. (2498) , in lawsuits
worldwide.  ‘Important Milestone’  The EU’s approval is “an important milestone in the
approval process,” Don Harrison, Google’s deputy general
counsel, said in a  blog post . He said the company was waiting
for decisions from a few other jurisdictions before it could
close the combination to “help supercharge Android.”  Motorola Mobility is “pleased with the progress” and
looks “forward to clearance in other jurisdictions,” Jennifer
Weyrauch-Erickson, a  San Diego , California-based spokeswoman for
the company, said in an e-mailed statement.  The commission said its probe showed that Google was
unlikely to block rivals’ access to Android software or to use
Motorola Mobility’s standard-essential patents to give an unfair
boost to its search and advertising services.  Google pledged last week to honor Motorola Mobility’s
commitments to license patents that are part of industry-
standard technology.  Google Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  said in August
the company’s bid for Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola
Mobility would help protect Android against “anticompetitive
attacks” from Apple and Microsoft.  ‘Launching Injunctions’  Samsung is under investigation by EU antitrust regulators
over whether it broke a commitment to license any standard
essential patents for phones on “fair, reasonable and non-
discriminatory terms.” The EU said its probe was triggered by
Samsung’s claims in European courts that rivals infringed its
patents.  Almunia said he didn’t rule out future antitrust probes
into companies using lawsuits to block rivals.  Owners of standard-essential patents shouldn’t abuse their
market power by “launching injunctions,” he told reporters.
Still, he said he can’t oblige them to withdraw such requests to
block product sales.  ‘Market Power’  “If they are using injunctions without a previous offer of
patent licensing” on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory
terms, “I would consider that they are abusing their market
power,” Almunia said. “We are trying to establish the rules of
the game.”  In approving the Motorola deal, the  Justice Department  said
it was monitoring Google and other companies that have not sworn
off injunctions.  Motorola Mobility, Samsung, Apple and Microsoft are
involved in numerous patent lawsuits in  Europe  as demand for
smartphones and tablets soar. Global smartphone shipments surged
55 percent in the fourth quarter as demand for Apple’s iPhone
4S, International Data Corporation said Feb. 6.  EU antitrust regulators are separately investigating Google
over claims it discriminated against other services in its
search results and stopped some websites from accepting rival
ads. Microsoft and shopping-comparison site Foundem are among
companies that asked the agency to examine the  Mountain View ,
California-based search engine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  