-- Google Loses Bid to Disqualify Lawyers Suing Android Partners
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-02-13T22:35:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/google-loses-bid-to-disqualify-lawyers-suing-android-partners.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the largest maker of
smartphone software, lost a bid to have a  law firm  it hired to
help obtain patents barred from working with rivals that are
pursuing infringement claims on the company’s Android system.  Google sought to disqualify Pepper Hamilton LLP from
representing Alexandria, Virginia-based Digitude Innovations LLC
in a patent lawsuit that targets makers of Android-based phones,
including  HTC Corp. (2498)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  Members of the
same law firm have worked on behalf of Google on the  Mountain
View , California-based company’s patent submissions for Android.  “Google offers no evidence regarding how Google’s business
interests will be harmed through this litigation,” U.S.
International Trade Commission Judge  Robert Rogers  in  Washington 
said in a decision today.  Pepper Hamilton has pledged not to question any Google
witnesses and it’s set up an “ethical screen” to keep lawyers
who are working on behalf of Digitude in Washington and Boston
from accessing confidential information related to Google’s
patents. The lawyers working on Google’s patent applications are
in Delaware and Pennsylvania, the judge said.  “I find that the actions taken by Pepper Hamilton serve as
a reasonable precaution to keep the confidential information of
Google and Digitude separate,” Rogers wrote.  Rogers said separately today that a trial in the Digitude
case will be held in January 2013, and he plans to issue his
findings in March 2013.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Portable Communication
Devices, 337-827, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  