-- Google Wins U.S. Antitrust Approval to Buy Motorola Mobility
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-02-14T05:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/google-s-12-5-billion-motorola-mobility-bid-wins-u-s-antitrust-approval.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  won U.S. antitrust
approval to purchase  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc (MMI) . for $12.5
billion and expand its mobile-phone patents to increase
competition with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The acquisition of Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola
Mobility gives Google, the biggest maker of smartphone software,
more than 17,000 additional patents in the largest wireless-
equipment deal in at least a decade, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The U.S.  Justice Department  said that the Motorola Mobility
patent purchases as well as two separate deals it approved
yesterday wouldn’t hurt competition in the mobile-phone
industry. Google earlier won approval for the purchase in the
European Union while the company is awaiting regulatory
clearance in  China  and Israel.  “The specific transactions at issue are not likely to
significantly change existing market dynamics,” according to a
Justice Department statement.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, cited
reinforcing its defenses in patent litigation as the prime
motive for buying Motorola Mobility and its patents.  Lawsuits Over Android  Apple, maker of the iPhone, and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , developer
of Windows Phone software, have alleged patent infringement in
lawsuits around the world over phones that run on Google’s
Android system, including handsets built by Motorola Mobility,
Samsung Electronics Co. and  HTC Corp. (2498)   In a blog posting on the European Union approval, Don
Harrison, Google’s vice president and deputy general counsel,
said the combination of Google and Motorola Mobility will
“supercharge Android” and “enhance competition.”  Niki Fenwick, a Google spokeswoman, said in a statement the
company hopes to complete the transaction early this year.  The deals approved by the department are part of a growing
trend of technology companies buying patents they can use to
defend themselves against intellectual-property suits. Google’s
Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  said in August that the
company’s bid for Motorola Mobility would help protect Android
against “anticompetitive attacks” from Apple and Microsoft.  The Motorola Mobility acquisition would make Google a
competitor to the other handset makers that make Android
devices.  Mobile-Device Industry  The patents include technology essential to the mobile-
device industry, including location services, antenna designs
and touch-screen motions.  A plan by a consortium led by Microsoft and Apple to buy
Nortel Network Corp. patents also received antitrust approval
yesterday, according to the Justice Department. The $4.5 billion
acquisition will give the consortium, which includes  Research in
Motion Ltd .,  Sony Corp. (6758) , Ericsson AB and  EMC Corp (EMC) ., control of
more than 6,000 patents and applications that cover wireless
technologies.  The department also said it approved Apple’s acquisition of
some  Novell Inc. (NOVL)  patents.  During the Justice Department investigation of the patent
deals, the agency said it became concerned with the increasing
tendency of patent holders filing lawsuits to stop other
companies from using their key smartphone technology. The
department said it will continue to examine companies such as
Google that haven’t sworn off the practice.  Enforcement Action  In its statement, the department said it “will not
hesitate to take appropriate enforcement action to stop any
anticompetitive use” of essential technology.  In approving the Google-Motorola Mobility deal,  Joaquin Almunia , the European Union’s antitrust chief, told reporters he
wouldn’t rule out future antitrust investigations into companies
using lawsuits to block rivals.  Companies shouldn’t abuse their market power by “launching
injunctions,” he said.  The EU is investigating whether  Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co.
broke a commitment to license its smartphone patents to rivals
on “fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms.”  Google said in a Feb. 8 letter that it would still consider
seeking court injunctions if it couldn’t resolve “standard
compliant” patent disputes. Google wrote the letter to answer
questions of EU regulators.  Microsoft, of Redmond, Washington, and Cupertino,
California-based Apple have said they won’t deny other companies
from using their technology if they have previously signed an
agreement to that effect.  “We are encouraged that the U.S. Department of Justice and
the European Commission both have raised concerns about the
misuse of standard-essential patents and Google’s failure to
address this issue in a satisfactory way,” said  Brad Smith ,
executive vice president and general counsel at Microsoft, in a
statement.  Companies often sign contracts agreeing to license
essential technology for a reasonable price as a way to ensure
steady improvement in the technology.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  