-- Rioters Set Fire to 45 Buildings in Athens Austerity Protest
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 2012-02-13T16:19:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/greek-police-arrest-67-people-after-buildings-burned-in-austerity-protests.html
Rioters set fire to as many as 45
buildings during violent street protests against government
austerity measures in central  Athens  late yesterday and
overnight, Greek police said.  Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  won parliamentary approval
early today for the spending cuts needed to secure an
international bailout of 130 billion euros ($172 billion). The
measures equal about 7 percent of gross domestic product over
three years and include a debt swap that would shave 100 billion
euros off more than 200 billion euros of privately held debt.
 Greece  was granted its first aid package of 110 billion euros in
May 2010.  A total of 170 businesses in Athens suffered attacks during
the protests, the Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry said
today in a  statement  on its website. Initial estimates put the
cost of damage to buildings and equipment as well as from theft
at tens of millions of euros, the chamber said.  Seventeen banks, four bookstores, five department stores
and shopping malls and 70 clothing and footware shops were among
businesses that suffered damage, the Athens-based association
said.  Several national heritage sites were burned including a
neoclassical building from 1870-1881, designed by German
architect Ernst Ziller, which was  gutted  by fire, according to
an e-mailed statement from the Athens City Hall.  Alpha Bank Blaze  The ground floor of an Art Deco building dating from the
1920s that was the site of a branch of Alpha Bank SA was
completely destroyed by fire. Athens City cleaning services
collected 40 metric tons of broken marble and stone that rioters
hacked from streets and sidewalks.  Police arrested the 67 people for attacking security forces
with gasoline bombs and stones and damaging buildings and shops
as well as for looting. Another 75 people were detained for
questioning, according to a  statement  posted today on the Greek
police website.  Tear gas and flash grenades were used to repel rioters. A
total of 106 police officers were injured during the protests,
68 of whom required hospital treatment, according to the
statement. More than 200 fire fighters and 80 fire trucks were
deployed across Athens to tackle the blazes, the Greek Fire
Service said in a separate statement.  Other buildings set ablaze in central Athens included a
 Starbucks (SBUX)  cafe. Greek clothing retailer  Sprider Stores SA (SPRDER)  said
in an e-mailed statement today its downtown Athens offices as
well as warehouses in the same building were damaged by fire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  