-- Washington Legalizes Gay Marriage, Extending Patchwork of States
-- B y   E s m e   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2012-02-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/gregoire-makes-washington-another-island-of-gay-marriage-in-divided-nation.html
Governor Christine Gregoire signed a
bill legalizing same-sex marriage in  Washington (STOWA1) , making it the
seventh in the patchwork of states granting the right to gay and
lesbian couples.  The state House of Representatives approved the legislation
Feb. 8 over the opposition of Republicans who said the practice
would erode traditional marriage and harm families and children.
Opponents are trying to mount a challenge at the ballot box in
November.  Gregoire’s signature extends to the West Coast the
archipelago of states where couples of the same sex may marry.
New York,  Massachusetts ,  Connecticut ,  Iowa ,  New Hampshire ,
Vermont and the  District of Columbia  permit the practice. The
New Jersey Senate yesterday passed a bill that would allow gay
and lesbian couples to marry, though Republican Governor  Chris Christie  has said he would veto it.  “It is a day historians will mark as a milestone for equal
rights,” Gregoire said yesterday at a bill-signing in Olympia,
the capital. “A day when we did what was right, we did what was
just, we did what was fair.”  Gregoire, a 64-year-old Democrat, acknowledged that
opponents haven’t given up. The law is to take effect in June,
though implementation would be delayed if enough signatures are
gathered to put a referendum on the ballot, said Karina Shagren,
Gregoire’s spokeswoman.  ‘Time Is Now’  “The people of  Washington  will say marriage equality is
right for our state and the time is now,” Gregoire said.  Nationwide, voters have rejected gay marriage in all 31
referendums held so far.  At least five other states are dealing with the issue this
year: Lawmakers in Maryland and  Illinois  are weighing
legalization, while ballot referendums in North Carolina and
 Minnesota  propose barring the practice. Maine voters may be
given a chance to decide whether to extend marriage rights to
same-sex couples.  The patchwork of laws leaves gay and lesbian Americans with
different rights depending on geography.  Gay couples who wed in Washington and the other states
where it’s legal wouldn’t see their marriages recognized by the
federal government or at least 40 other states that either
outlaw the practice or don’t recognize it, according to  Freedom
to Marry , a New York-based advocacy organization that supports
gay marriage.  That’s fine with John Eastman, chairman of the  National
Organization for Marriage , an advocacy group working to maintain
the traditional definition of marriage in the legal code.  We’re Surviving  “We have this system of laboratories called the states
where we can try different experiments and see what works well
and what doesn’t, without imposing a national rule on
everybody,” said Eastman, a professor at Chapman University
School of Law in Orange,  California .  “We have patchwork laws on all sorts of things” that vary
from one state to another, such as rules on custody and third-
cousin marriages, Eastman said in an interview. “It hasn’t
seemed to have brought us down yet.”  For advocates like  Evan Wolfson , founder and president of
Freedom to Marry, that translates to “a house divided.”  “We are one country, not 50 separate kingdoms, and we all
deserve equal protection under the law,” he said in an e-mail.
“Same-sex couples should not have to play ‘now you’re married,
now you’re not’ depending on which state they are in.”  Nor should they be treated as “legal strangers,” he said,
under the  Defense of Marriage Act , a 1996 law signed by
President  Bill Clinton , a Democrat. The law prohibits the
federal government from recognizing same-sex spouses.  Courts and Votes  Same-sex married couples, for instance, may not file joint
federal returns, which lower taxes, because the Internal Revenue
Service defines a marriage as “only a legal union between a man
and a woman as husband and wife.”  The Obama administration said last year it would no longer
oppose court challenges to the act.  State laws prohibiting the practice also face legal
challenges. A panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San
Francisco  voted 2-1 on Feb. 7 to strike down California’s
Proposition 8, which defined marriage to be only between a man
and a woman, as unconstitutional. Gay nuptials had begun in 2008
after the state’s top court overruled a ban passed by voters in
2000.  In Washington, opponents need petitions signed by more than
120,000 registered voters to get a referendum on the November
ballot, according to Brian Zylstra, a spokesman for Secretary of
State Sam Reed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  