-- Groupon Adds ‘Thumbs Up’ Deals Feedback in Revamp to Fend Off LivingSocial
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-02-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/groupon-adds-thumbs-up-deals-feedback-in-revamp-to-fend-off-livingsocial.html
Groupon Inc (GRPN) . is preparing a revamped
version of its website, starting with “thumbs up” and “thumbs
down” buttons to help the daily coupon service do a better job
tailoring offers to its 33 million active users.  The company began testing a new design of the site with a
small portion of users last month and plans to make it widely
available in the coming weeks, Chief Executive Officer  Andrew
Mason  said in a recent interview in  San Francisco .  Groupon, after raising $700 million in a November initial
public offering, is releasing new products to keep users from
defecting to such rivals as LivingSocial. The new website also
reflects Mason’s effort to make technology a greater focus at a
company brimming with thousands of salespeople, Mason said.  “Our goal is six months from now, when you go to Groupon,
it’s going to look and feel very different,” Mason said. “It’s
going to be a much more robust and refined service that
immediately jumps off the page.”  Software additions like the “thumbs up” and “thumbs
down” buttons can help Groupon avoid showing certain deals to
the wrong audience, such as offering bikini waxing to men, Mason
said. Internet radio service Pandora Media Inc. uses a similar
tool to match songs with users’ tastes.  Other additions to Groupon’s site will include more
prominent links to Groupon Now, a service for local deals good
only for a short period of the day, and categories like health
and beauty and food and drink.  Engineers, Photographers  Chicago-based Groupon opened an engineering office in  Palo
Alto ,  California  in 2010. Many elements of the new site design
were driven by that office’s 200 employees, Mason said.  Groupon has begun hiring photographers to shoot original
images of the local businesses offering deals, replacing the
generic stock photos that have populated much of the site, the
CEO said.  “We’re trying to bring these deals to life by working with
local businesses to take pictures,” he said.  Special events, such as Valentine’s Day, will be
prominently featured on Groupon’s home page with an array of
deals tied to those occasions. Other seasonal deals could
include those associated with back-to-school shopping or local
happenings like the Lollapalooza concert in  Chicago .  Groupon shares fell last week after the company reported an
unexpected loss, excluding certain costs, of 2 cents a share,
reflecting higher-than-expected overseas taxes.  The stock slipped less than 1 percent to $21.03 on Feb. 10,
the most recent trading day. The shares have climbed 5.2 percent
since their Nov. 3 debut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  