-- Gunfights in Saudi Oil-Rich Province Show Spread of Iran Political Tension
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-02-14T12:38:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/gunfights-in-saudi-oil-province-show-spread-of-iran-tensions.html
Armored anti-riot vehicles cluster
outside the police station in Awwamiya in  Saudi Arabia ’s oil-
producing eastern region, where unrest is turning violent.  “We have enough police force to deal with any criminal or
prohibited situation,” says Brigadier-General Yousef al-Qahtani
as he drives through the town. In nearby al-Qatif, graffiti
scrawled on a cemetery wall criticizes the Al Saud family,
founders of the kingdom eight decades ago, and calls for the
removal of their fellow  Sunni Muslim  monarchs in Bahrain. Black
Shiite flags adorn religious centers in the back-alleys.  Clashes between police and armed Shiite protesters in the
two towns have intensified since October, when 11 police were
injured in an attack. Since then, seven Shiites have been killed
by security forces, according to figures provided by Saudi
Arabia’s Human Rights First Society.  It’s in such places that tensions between the Gulf’s Sunni
nations and Shiite-led  Iran  may spark violence inside Saudi
Arabia, the world’s biggest oil exporter. Shiites here have
cultural and family ties with Iran, and also with Bahrain, where
Saudi troops helped crush Shiite-led protests that broke out a
year ago today. Saudi authorities accuse Iran, which is under
growing western pressure to back down over its nuclear program,
of stirring up unrest in both cases.  ‘Much Bigger Fire’  “This is another one of those possible flashpoints in the
region that could become a much bigger fire if it is not
contained early on,”  Paul Sullivan , a political scientist
specializing in Middle East security at  Georgetown University  in
 Washington , said in an e-mail.  After two Shiites were shot dead in gun battles in
Awwamiya and al-Qatif last week, the cost of Saudi Arabia’s
credit default swaps jumped 2 percent to 131.8, before
retreating to 129.2 yesterday. They reached a two-and-a-half-
year high last month as Iranian threats to block the  Strait of
Hormuz , in response to a planned western oil embargo, stoked
concerns of conflict in a region that supplies a fifth of the
world’s crude.  Most of that comes from Saudi Arabia, and the biggest Saudi
 oil fields  are in the Eastern Province, home to most of the
Saudi Shiite population. It’s the second-largest Shiite
community in the Gulf after  Iraq ’s, comprising between 10 and 15
percent of the total of 19 million Saudi nationals, according to
the  U.S. State Department .  Iran denies charges of interference by Saudi Arabia and
other Gulf nations, and accuses their Sunni rulers of
discriminating against Shiites.  Holy Sites  In Bahrain, linked to eastern Saudi Arabia’s Shiite regions
by a 16-mile (26-kilometer) causeway, protests have also been
escalating, in the run-up to today’s anniversary.  Yesterday, Shiite-led opposition groups accused the
security forces of attacking peaceful demonstrations with
teargas and stun grenades, while the Interior Ministry said
protesters hurled rocks and set fire to private property.
Twenty-five people were arrested early today on their way to a
rally and police stormed houses suspected of harboring
protesters, said Mohammed al-Maskati, president of the Bahrain
Youth Society for Human Rights.  Saudi Arabia largely escaped the unrest that spread across
the Arab world last year, though there were protests in
Awwamiya, al-Qatif and other eastern towns. Shiite cleric Tawfiq
al-Amir was arrested after he called for a constitutional
monarchy and equal rights.  Tensions between Saudi Arabia and Iran date back to Iran’s
Islamic Revolution in 1979.  Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini  accused
Saudi rulers of corruption and argued that the holy sites of
Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia shouldn’t be under a single
country’s guardianship. In December, the U.S. agreed to sell
Saudi Arabia 84 F-15 fighter jets in a $29.4 billion deal seen
as bolstering defenses against Iran.  ‘Card They Can Use’  “To ask if Iran has an interest in destabilizing Saudi
Arabia, yes they do,” said Khalid al-Dakhil, a political
science professor at  King Saud University  in Riyadh, in a phone
interview. “It is a card they can use to pressure the Saudis.”  In al-Qatif, the graffiti shows Shiite resentment at their
perceived exclusion from the country’s wealth. “Where is the
oil money?” one slogan asks. Smashed street lights and road
signs attest to recent violence in the Gulf city, where wooden
dhow boats anchor and families picnic as vehicles carrying riot
police speed along the coast road.  The U.S. State Department noted in a human-rights report on
Saudi Arabia  published in 2009  that Shiites in the kingdom face
“significant political, economic, legal, social and religious
discrimination condoned by the government.”  Job Discrimination  Saudi Grand Mufti Sheikh Abdulaziz al-Sheikh described
practices during the Ashoura festival, a day of mourning for
Shiite Muslims, as “against Islamic law” in an article
published in Al-Watan newspaper on Dec. 3.  Seventy-four students, mainly Shiites, from the  Jubail
Industrial College  north of al-Qatif called on the government to
penalize companies that discriminate in hiring,  Safwa News 
reported on Feb. 3. Their petition criticized Saudi Arabian
Mining Co., the kingdom’s largest miner, for excluding 60 Shiite
students from an employment program. Calls to the company’s
communications office weren’t answered yesterday.  Shiite leaders held meetings with the late King Fahd in
1993 and were promised measures to address the region’s
grievances. The  Eastern Province  is benefitting from King Abdullah’s $130 billion spending pledges last year, including a
new stadium and roads in Awwamiya.  “The majority of people in Qatif, while they do have
grievances and quite legitimate demands, they don’t believe it
is the right way to alleviate their grievances through
violence,” al-Dakhil said.  First Shootings  Violence, though, has been increasing since October when
security forces were fired upon from side streets of Awwamiya.
Gun battles between police and demonstrators broke out there and
in Qatif on Feb. 9 and 10.  “We never experienced shooting at the police before,”
Colonel Abdullah Aseeri, the police chief of al-Qatif, said in
an interview. Brigadier General Yousef, an almost 30-year
veteran with the Interior Ministry, said the use of weapons and
“endangering the lives and safety of citizens is a red line.”  Security forces are displaying more restraint than they
have in the past in their response to protests, said Ibrahim al-
Mugaiteeb, president of the Human Rights First Society. “A lot
of demonstrations happen without a police crackdown,” he said.  Loyalty Pledge  A delegation of Shiite Muslim scholars and clerics from al-
Qatif condemned clashes in November that left four people dead
and nine injured, Al-Yaum newspaper reported. They also pledged
loyalty to the Al Saud leadership.  Such community elders, seeking to soothe tensions, don’t
have the traction they used to have, said Tawfiq al-Saif, a
prominent Shiite cleric. Young Saudi Shiites, like their
contemporaries elsewhere in the Arab world, are demanding
change, he said.  “There is the sense of being marginalized in the country
among the Shiite young,” al-Saif said. “The younger generation
feels that it is no longer the role of the leaders or elders to
solve their problems. People want promises fulfilled.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in  Riyadh  at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 