-- Mideast Aid Bolstered in State Department’s Budget Plan After Arab Spring
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-02-13T22:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/mideast-aid-bolstered-in-state-department-s-budget-plan-after-arab-spring.html
President  Barack Obama ’s budget
seeks $8.2 billion in “extraordinary and temporary” funding
for State Department responsibilities in  Iraq ,  Afghanistan  and
 Pakistan .  The request comes on top of the $43.4 billion proposed for
the “core” budget for the State Department and the U.S. Agency
for International Development, which manages foreign aid. As the
military has pulled out of Iraq and drawn down in Afghanistan,
the administration has turned to the State Department to oversee
spending on political, security and economic projects, such as
the $1.8 billion for Iraq police training and military
assistance.  The administration is proposing to trim assistance to
 Europe , Eurasia and Central Asia in order to bolster spending in
areas given higher priority by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton . The  Middle East  would gain, with the creation of a
special $770 million fund to support political and economic
reform in the aftermath of the Arab Spring.  “This budget follows a year of transformational change in
the world,” Thomas Nides, the department’s deputy secretary for
management and resources, said today.  The $51.6 billion budget proposal for fiscal 2013 would
increase spending on global programs by 1.6 percent over the
amount approved by Congress last year, when the Obama
administration asked for $8.7 billion for Iraq and Afghanistan  “Even as our needs and responsibilities grow, our budget
increase is less than the rate of inflation,” Nides said at a
briefing on the budget.  Money for Egypt  The budget includes funding for  Egypt , despite the current
dispute over U.S. staff of nonprofit groups being threatened
with felony and misdemeanor charges for not registering or for
engaging in political activity.  The budget calls for $1.3 billion in assistance to the
military, $1.8 million in military education and another $250
million in economic assistance. U.S. lawmakers have threatened
to cut off funding until Egypt lifts the charges and lets the
Americans return home.  “There’s bipartisan support, once we get these issues
resolved, to support Egypt,” Nides said.  The State Department budget calls for $4.8 billion in
spending in Iraq -- including $2.7 billion to support the
embassy there and three consulates plus public outreach programs
-- and for $4.6 billion for Afghanistan, including $2.1 billion
to support “the expansion of diplomacy” and the
“extraordinary costs of security in a conflict zone.”  Trade Support  There is also a $78.9 million request to fund the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
Congress barred the administration from funding UNESCO after the
body accepted  Palestine  as a member. Nides said that the
president had requested a waiver because “UNESCO does a lot of
enormously good work.”  Five international trade-related organizations are
designated to receive $432 million, an increase of $19 million
over the previous year’s request, for trade promotion and
assistance to small businesses seeking broader export
opportunities. The funding, for five different federal
organizations, is to support the administration’s National
Export Initiative, which aims to double exports over five years.  The proposal lays out plans to make the State Department’s
overseas administrative operations more cost-efficient by
reducing travel, printing supplies and other costs to less than
2010 levels by increasing the use of phones and web-based and
digital video conferencing. Spending on contract services for
management support will be cut to 15 percent less than 2010
levels, according to the proposal.  ‘Stretch’ Tax Dollars  Those changes would save more than $100 million, according
to the budget documents.  Nides said the department was aware that this is a time of
“economic hardship.” The department’s budget proposal “seeks
to stretch every tax dollar as far as possible without
compromising our core national security interests,” he said.  So-called core spending -- the main State Department and
USAID operations excluding certain war-related funding -- isn’t
comparable year-to-year because of program shifts between the
main budget and the “overseas contingency operations.”  The proposed State Department budget is part of the $3.8
trillion budget Obama sent to Congress today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  