-- Liepert Says Alberta Needs Many Pipeline Outlets to Avoid Landlocked Oil
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-02-13T19:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/liepert-says-alberta-needs-many-pipeline-outlets-to-avoid-landlocked-oil.html
Alberta  Finance Minister Ron Liepert
said the province needs multiple pipelines to ensure its crude
doesn’t become “landlocked” as  oil companies  prepare to ramp
up production.  “Our biggest concern and challenge is getting our product
to market,” Liepert said in an interview at Bloomberg News
headquarters in New York today. “By 2020, Alberta could be
landlocked in bitumen.”  The western Canadian province, home to the world’s third-
largest pool of oil reserves, is working to obtain capacity to
transport crude amid opposition from environmental groups as
companies such as Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) 
invest about C$20 billion ($20 billion) annually in the oil
sands.  U.S. President Barack Obama last month denied a permit to
TransCanada Corp.’s planned Keystone XL pipeline that would
deliver 700,000 barrels a day of crude from Alberta’s  oil sands 
to the  Gulf of Mexico  through six U.S. states.  Enbridge Inc. has also proposed the Northern Gateway
pipeline that would run from Alberta to the Pacific coast, and
Kinder Morgan Inc. is seeking to expand its existing
Transmountain line to Vancouver.  “Keystone is only one of them, Enbridge is only one of
them, but the reality is by 2020 we are going to need two or
three Enbridge-Keystones,” Liepert said.  Liepert said he believes the decision to deny the Keystone
permit will be reversed after elections this November, and said
environmental groups are misrepresenting the province’s oil
industry.  ‘Makes No Sense’  “The common belief is that this will all change after the
presidential election, so I think that’s still where the
investor community is,” Liepert said. “The U.S. needs the
product.  Canada  has the product. It just makes no sense that
it’s not coming to the U.S.”  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  has called diversifying
Canada’s energy exports a “national priority” after the
Keystone pipeline permit was denied. Tapping markets in Asia may
raise the price received by Canadian producers by $13.60 a
barrel by 2030, according to a University of Calgary study.
About 99 percent of Canada’s crude exports go the U.S.  The federal government last month began hearings on a
proposed pipeline by Enbridge to move crude from Alberta’s oil
sands to British Columbia’s coast, where it could be shipped to
Asian markets.  The pipeline has become a flashpoint with
environmentalists, and Harper has said his government will
review regulatory-approval rules for new energy projects so they
can be concluded more quickly. That will include looking more
closely into complaints that “foreign” environmental groups
are seeking to overload the regulatory process, according to
Harper.  Liepert said environmental groups are relying on “stunts”
to generate attention because their arguments are weak.  “It comes down to honesty,” he said. “Let’s put all the
facts on the table and let Canadians, Americans, the world,
consider the facts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in  New York  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 