-- Obama Proposes Doubling Highway Spending on Military Savings
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2012-02-13T20:14:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/highway-spending-would-be-doubled-in-obama-s-budget-amid-military-savings.html
President  Barack Obama ’s fiscal 2013
budget proposed almost doubling the amount spent on U.S.
highway, bridge and mass transit projects by using money
previously spent on military operations in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  The White House budget released today proposes $476 billion
over six years for surface transportation, and the president
calls for an immediate $50 billion infusion in spending this
year. It also increases a transportation lending program by four
fold while reducing funding for airport grants.  “This transportation budget is fully paid for,” said
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood on a conference call with
reporters. “This is real money.”  The Highway Trust Fund, which finances U.S. transportation
projects using vehicle-fuel taxes, faces insolvency as soon as
October, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . Obama
would transfer about $38.5 billion a year from the U.S. general
fund for use on roads and bridges, offset by “reduced overseas
military expenditures,” to supplement  trust-fund  income, the
document said. No funding sources for transportation other than
the trust fund were specified in last year’s budget.  Half of the money from reduced war expenditures would go to
pay down the U.S. deficit, with the rest targeting
infrastructure, LaHood said. The president and some Republicans
have ruled out raising fuel taxes to fill the funding gap.  House, Senate Proposals  The House has proposed a five-year transportation spending
plan of $260 billion. The Senate’s proposal is for $109 billion
over two years. House and Senate committees have turned to non-
transportation funding ideas to offset the difference between
fuel-tax income and proposed spending in both bills, including
having federal employees pay more toward their pensions and
changing the tax treatment of some IRAs.  The Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation
Program, or TIFIA, would have financing authority of about $5
billion under the president’s budget. In fiscal 2012, financing
authority was $1.23 billion. The TIFIA program provides loans to
help pay for toll-road and other projects in combination with
private financing.  The budget reduces grants to airports by $900 million.
Larger airports would be permitted to raise more money for
improvements by increasing so-called passenger facility charges
on airline tickets, as grant money is directed more to small
airports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  