-- Immigrants Lured in Boom Lose Most in Imploding Spanish Market: Mortgages
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h
-- 2012-02-14T10:13:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/immigrants-lose-in-imploding-spanish-housing-market-mortgages.html
Lamin Numke, a 34-year-old man from
the Republic of  Mali , is one of the millions of immigrants who
settled in  Spain  during the  real-estate boom , attracted by
plentiful jobs and cheap mortgages, only to default on his loan.  Today, borrowers like Numke are the most likely to fall
behind on mortgage payments and lose their property, according
to a Moody’s Investors Service study of 890,000 mortgages from
2006 through 2008. The average  default rate  for foreign
residents is “strikingly high compared with  mortgage loans  to
Spanish residents,” Moody’s wrote in the report last month.  Faced with mounting losses, Spanish banks have reduced new
lending, which the National Statistics Institute in Madrid said
fell  35.8 percent  from a year earlier in November, the 19th
straight decline. The bad loans to immigrants are also
complicating a push for Spanish banks to recognize greater
losses on real estate they accumulated during the crash and
driving buyers from the 182 billion euro ($240 billion) Spanish
residential mortgage-backed  securities market .  “Deals with a significant portion of foreign residents,
whether immigrants or vacationers, are double no deals for me,”
said Alexander Fagenzer of Union Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt ,
which oversees 120 billion euros. “Incentives for those
borrowers to keep paying are significantly lower than for
Spanish residents,” and that’s “key in a country facing high
levels of unemployment and declining housing prices.”  Unwanted Assets  Financial institutions have foreclosed on 328,720 homes
since 2007, according to  Plataforma de los Afectados por la
Hipoteca , a group known as PAH that campaigns against evictions.
Repossessed houses in Spain are valued at 43 percent less on
average than the appraisals on the mortgages,  Fitch Ratings  said
in a Dec. 15 report.  Lenders, whose bad loans as a proportion of total lending
jumped to a 17-year high of 7.42 percent in October, have also
acquired properties from developers to cancel debt and may have
as many as 900,000 finished, unfinished and foreclosed homes on
their books, according to Borja Mateo, author of “The Truth
About the Spanish Real Estate Market.”  Spanish bonds fell today, increasing the extra yield
investors demand to hold the securities instead of 10-year
German bunds by three basis points to 336 basis points, after
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded Spain’s debt rating to A3
from A1.  Spain’s economy will contract by 1.7 percent this year,
according to forecasts by the  International Monetary Fund . The
economy grew at an average rate of  3.9  percent a year in the
decade through 2006, and the immigrant population swelled eight-
fold to 4.1 million as foreigners flocked to Spain, attracted by
plentiful jobs in construction and services.  Relaxed Requirements  That propelled demand for new mortgage loans which  peaked 
in 2005, according to the National Statistics Institute.
Immigrants held five percent of outstanding mortgages at the
peak of the home lending boom, according to a  report  by the
Institute of Fiscal Studies, a government-backed research
organization.  That year, Numke, who arrived in Spain a decade ago, paid
231,000 euros for his three-bedroom apartment in downtown Madrid
with a 100-percent mortgage granted by  Caja Madrid , a Spanish
savings bank that was merged with six other troubled lenders in
2010 to form  Bankia SA (BKIA) . Spanish banks had relaxed borrowing
requirements even for people who, like Numke, had short-term
work contracts with nothing to back the loans.  Like thousands of workers in the  construction industry ,
Numke lost his job in 2008 after the real-estate bubble burst.
Construction accounted for about 18 percent of gross domestic
product at the height of the boom, according to a McKinsey & Co.
 report . That’s fallen to about 11 percent,  data  compiled by the
Statistics Institute show.  Rising Unemployment  Spain’s unemployment rate rose to 22.9 percent in December,
Eurostat said. The country is home to a third of the euro
region’s jobless and half of young Spaniards are estimated to be
out of work, according to the  EU’s statistics office . The number
of unemployed non-Spanish residents surged to 1.23 million in
the fourth quarter of 2011 from 306,300 five years earlier,
according to Spain’s Statistics Institute.  Numke stopped paying his mortgage when his savings dried up
and repayments doubled, adding to the burgeoning number of
foreign residents driving up defaults for Spanish lenders
already facing a five-fold increase in residential mortgage
 arrears  since 2007.  “Bankia refused to take the keys and cancel our loan,”
Numke said in an interview at the property on Jan. 17, the day
before he, his wife, two-year-old son and 4-month-old daughter
were evicted. “The bank is only harming itself by taking on
another foreclosed home and still chasing us for a debt that
we’ll probably never be able to repay.”  Higher Defaults  The second-most risky debts are loans originated by
mortgage brokers rather than bank branches, according to
Moody’s. Historically, bank branches issued most mortgages in
Spain. When lending  peaked  brokers played an increasingly
important role.  “Loans originated by mortgage brokers have higher default
rates in large part because of the socioeconomic profile of
borrowers contacting a mortgage broker,” Moody’s analyst Tena Centeno wrote in the Jan. 12 report. “Broker remuneration is
fee-driven and linked more to volume than the credit quality of
the applicant.”  Marisa Mazabanda, a 35-year-old Peruvian, was earning 1,200
euros a month as a cleaner when she was granted a 100-percent
198,000-euro loan by a mortgage broker in 2005 that was 14 times
her gross annual salary. Milenium, the broker she used, added
other mortgage applicants to her loan request as guarantors to
get it approved. Milenium has since been dissolved.  ‘Prices Never Fall’  “I was a bit frightened of taking on such a huge amount of
debt, but the mortgage broker just kept telling me  home prices 
never fall and if I lost my job I could sell my home at a
profit,” Mazabanda said. “I thought: if this is legal and they
are offering me the money, what can go wrong?”  House prices , which more than  doubled  in the decade through
2007, turned negative in the first quarter of 2008 and have
since fallen by about 17 percent, the  Ministry of Public Works 
estimates. Home sales are down 65 percent from the peak in 2006,
according to the agency.  Mazabanda lost her job and found another that paid 600
euros a month, while her monthly payments rose to 1,200 euros.
She stopped paying her mortgage and lost her home in 2007
because she couldn’t sell it for as much as the loan.  “It’s well known that banks provided subprime loans during
the boom, even though they won’t admit it and there’s no
official data to prove it,” said Fernando Rodriguez de Acuna
Martinez, consultant at Madrid-Acuna & Asociados, a Madrid-based
real estate research and advisory company.  Inflated Valuations  Acuna says lenders regularly granted mortgages with
repayments that exceeded guidelines of 33 percent of families’
incomes, inflated valuations above actual selling prices in
order to distort loan-to-value ratios and accepted multiple
guarantors for individual mortgages, according to Acuna.  “We have seen cases of as many as nine parties being used
as guarantors for one property,” Moody’s Tena Centeno said in a
telephone interview.  The result is bad news for the banks that granted the
mortgages in the first place and for holders of RMBS tied to the
loans, Acuna says.  High Yield Bonds  The extra yield investors demand to hold top-rated Spanish
home-loan bonds more than lending benchmarks is 550 basis
points, or 5.5 percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. data. While the spread has narrowed from 640 basis points
this year, it’s expanded from 400 basis points since the start
of 2011. The spread compares with relative yields of 475 for
debt tied to Italian borrowers, 152 basis points for those in
the U.K. and 150 basis points for debt tied to Dutch homeowners.  It’s “a difficult year ahead for Spanish RMBS,” said Tina Stumpf, a Frankfurt-based securitization analyst at DZ Bank AG,
citing increasing unemployment rates and possibly declining home
prices.  “Foreclosed properties are hard to sell because anyone in
a position to buy simply doesn’t want them due to their quality
and location,” Acuna said. “Given the fact that most
immigrants just go back home, the probability of recovering the
money from these mortgage holders is zero.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Smyth in  Madrid  at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 