-- India’s Bharti, Jet Join Pakistan Mission as Trade Curbs Eased
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-02-13T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/india-s-bharti-jet-join-pakistan-mission-as-trade-curbs-eased.html
India’s latest business delegation
to  Pakistan  includes executives from its leading wireless
company and its largest domestic airline, as the nuclear-armed
rivals seek to trade their way to closer relations.  Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  is in Pakistan with more
than 120 company officials in what India’s government says is
the most substantive bilateral trade mission since both
countries won independence from British colonial rule in 1947.
Sharma will hold talks on Feb. 15 with his Pakistani counterpart
Makhdoom Amin Fahim in Islamabad to review the progress in
normalizing trade relations.  “This is a major step towards deepening economic
engagement between India and Pakistan,” Sharma said at a press
conference in New Delhi Feb. 12 before leaving for Pakistan.
“We will discuss all aspects of economic engagement and it is
our hope that by taking economic relations to a higher level we
will be creating an environment of trust and confidence.”  India aims by 2015 to double commerce with its neighbor
from $2.7 billion in the fiscal year that ended March 31.
Pakistan in November granted India Most Favored Nation status,
its biggest step to facilitate cross-border trade since peace
talks stalled by the 2008 Mumbai attack resumed last year.  Among those traveling with Sharma during the three-day,
three-city visit are Naresh Goyal, chairman of  Jet Airways India
Ltd. (JETIN) , and Rajan Bharti Mittal, managing director at Bharti
Enterprises Ltd., which partners  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  in India,
according to the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and
Industry.  Sunil Kant Munjal, whose family controls Hero Motocorp
Ltd., India’s biggest motorcycle company, is also part of the
delegation, the Confederation of Indian Industry said in a
separate statement in New Delhi.  Slowing Growth  “This is probably the largest ever trade delegation India
has sent to Pakistan,” said Dipankar Banerjee, an analyst at
the New Delhi-based  Institute of Peace and Conflict Studies .
While the trip will foster better relations, trade between the
two nations won’t reach its potential “unless there is a major
boost in infrastructure construction and removal of non-tariff
barriers,” Banerjee said.  India’s government Feb. 7 predicted gross domestic product
will rise 6.9 percent in the 12 months through March from a year
earlier, the least since 2009 as the global recovery falters.
The $1.7 trillion economy,  Asia ’s third largest, also faces
pressure from budget and trade deficits, and policy gridlock
inhibiting investment.  Pakistan’s $175 billion economy grew 2.4 percent in the
year through June 2011, one of the smallest expansions in a
decade, as floods, militant attacks and rolling power blackouts
fueled price rises, drove out investment and closed factories.  ‘Good Sign’  An $11.3 billion International Monetary Fund loan to
Pakistan expired in September, with disbursements suspended in
May 2010 after the country failed to meet conditions attached to
it. The lender forecasts Pakistan’s GDP will rise 3.4 percent in
this fiscal year.  The nuclear-armed rivals, which have fought three wars,
agreed last year to broaden the number of goods that can be
traded between the two countries and to grant more business
visas as they move toward normalizing economic ties. They vowed
to dismantle tariffs on about 8,000 items by the end of this
year, with all restrictions being lifted by 2013.  The display of Indian interest in boosting economic ties is
a “good sign,” said Khalid Tawab, vice president of the
Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce & Industry. The
volume of trade that is routed through third countries should
fall, Tawab said.  In Lahore, the Indian delegation attended a trade fair
where 400 Indian manufacturers are showcasing products ranging
from jewelry and cosmetics to auto parts.  Kashmir Trade  Wide-ranging negotiations to improve relations resumed in
February, after a more than two-year break following the
terrorist attack on Mumbai by 10 Pakistani militants.  India  says
it’s continuing to press Pakistan to dismantle guerrilla groups
based on its soil and targeting India.  Trade between India and Pakistan has been hampered by six
decades of distrust and hostility since the two nations gained
independence. The countries have twice gone to war over their
conflicting claims to the territory of Kashmir.  The two countries agreed in July to expand trade and travel
between the parts of Kashmir they control.  Sharma said he expects Pakistan to remove most barriers to
trade. Pakistan currently allows imports of nearly 2,000 items,
including cotton, sugar and textiles. Restrictions remain on
goods such as pharmaceuticals and jewelry.  “Barriers to investment are particularly high due to
restrictive visa regimes and difficult clearances,” the CII
said. “This results in the inability of industry on both sides
to leverage each other’s financial, technological and managerial
resources.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  