-- Indian Oil Posts First Profit in Three Quarters on Fuel Subsidy
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-02-13T18:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/indian-oil-posts-first-profit-in-three-quarters-on-fuel-subsidy.html
Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL) , the nation’s
biggest refiner, reported its first profit in three quarters
after the government compensated the company for selling fuels
below cost.  Net income  in the third quarter ended Dec. 31 rose 53
percent to 24.9 billion rupees ($506 million), or 10.25 rupees a
share, from 16.3 billion rupees, or 6.73 rupees, a year earlier,
the New Delhi-based company said in a stock exchange filing
yesterday. Sales climbed 29 percent to 982.7 billion rupees.  Indian Oil and state-run rivals  Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL)  and
 Hindustan Petroleum Corp. (HPCL)  depend on government subsidy and
discounts on purchases from state-run explorers to make up for
losses from selling fuels below cost, which is aimed at curbing
inflation. The subsidy and higher profit will help Indian Oil
cut  debt  and pay for crude as prices climb.  “Their profit is governed by the government and is very
difficult to predict,” said Avinash Gupta, vice president of
equity research at Globe Capital Market Ltd. in New Delhi.
“There’s always this hope the government will some day do away
with fuel price controls and these companies will become great
investments.”  The  shares  were little changed at 275.75 rupees at close in
 Mumbai  yesterday, before the earnings were announced. The stock
has gained 8.7 percent this year, compared with a 15 percent
increase in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   The government gave Indian Oil 164.2 billion rupees as
subsidy in the quarter, compared with 44.4 billion rupees a year
earlier. The company didn’t get any compensation in the two
preceding quarters, pushing it into losses.  Court Ruling  Indian Oil set aside 61.7 billion rupees after a court
ruling that the refiner was liable to pay levies on crude
supplies to Uttar Pradesh state, according to the filing.  India ’s top court on Jan. 17 ordered the company to deposit
half of the tax payable to the government of  Uttar Pradesh ,
where 12 percent of the company’s refining capacity is located,
and submit a bank guarantee for the remainder till it reaches a
verdict.  Indian Oil earned $4.31 for every barrel of crude it turned
into fuels in the quarter, 27 percent lower than a year earlier.
The company’s debt was 786.96 billion rupees as of Dec. 31,
Chairman R.S. Butola told reporters in New Delhi yesterday.  Brent oil in London trading, a benchmark price for two-
thirds of the world’s crude, has increased 10 percent this year.  Bharat Petroleum, the second-biggest state refiner,
reported an almost 17-fold rise in third-quarter profit to 31.4
billion rupees and Hindustan Petroleum’s net income rose 13-
fold.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  