-- Obama Budget Doubles Infrastructure Funds While Cutting Programs
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-02-13T18:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/infrastructure-funds-would-double-in-obama-s-plan-while-agency-budgets-cut.html
President  Barack Obama  would almost
double spending on the U.S. infrastructure over the next six
years and would pour $350 billion into a jobs plan while
reducing the budgets of most other domestic agencies.  The blueprint for the fiscal 2013 budget released today
would spend $476 billion through 2018 on highway, bridge and
mass transit projects, funded in part by winding down the wars
in Iraq and  Afghanistan . It would cut some energy programs,  farm
subsidies  and federal workers’ retirement plans, while bulking
up the Securities and Exchange Commission and creating a panel
to investigate unfair foreign trade practices.  Investing in the nation’s transportation grid is a fresh
attempt to create jobs for a president facing re-election this
year amid voter concern about the economy and  unemployment  at
8.3 percent in January. Republican congressional leaders
rejected the proposal as a political program that wouldn’t do
much to curb the deficit and has little chance of becoming law.  Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky called
the proposal a “campaign document” designed to win votes
rather than help the economy. “The president is shirking his
responsibility to lead and using this budget to divide,”
McConnell said in a statement. “It will make the economy
worse.”  ‘Gloomy Reflection’  House Speaker  John Boehner  called Obama’s budget plan “a
gloomy reflection of his failed policies of the past” that is
“bad for job creation, our economy, and America’s seniors.”
Obama “offered a collection of rehashes, gimmicks, and tax
increases,” Boehner, a Ohio Republican, said in a statement.  Obama said said the budget plan saves money where possible
and spends where needed to bolster economic growth.  “I’m proposing some difficult cuts that, frankly, I
wouldn’t normally make if they weren’t absolutely necessary,”
Obama said in remarks at Northern Virginia Community College in
suburban  Washington . “What that allows us to do is to invest in
the things that will help grow our economy right now. We can’t
cut back on those things that are important for us to grow. We
can’t just cut our way into growth.”  Obama proposed increasing spending on road and bridge
infrastructure to create jobs. In addition to gasoline tax
revenue, transportation spending would come from a $38.5
billion-a-year transfer from the fund that now goes to war
spending.  Budget proposals for discretionary spending must adhere to
August’s Budget Control Act, which imposed spending caps that
the administration estimates will generate about $1 trillion in
 deficit  reduction over the next decade.  Bearing Brunt  Because  Social Security (USBOSOCS)  and Medicare benefits and many of
the other mandatory programs that account for more than half of
the federal budget are exempt from cuts, domestic agencies and
the  Defense Department (USBODEFN)  would bear the brunt of reductions.  The White House had asked agencies to develop proposals
spending 10 percent less than in fiscal 2011. “Meeting the
spending targets in this budget meant some very difficult
choices,” Obama wrote in a letter to Congress accompanying his
budget.  “Every department will feel the impact of these reductions
as they cut programs or tighten their belts to free up more
resources for areas critical to economic growth,” the letter
said.  ‘Falls Exceptionally Short’  House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a
 Kentucky  Republican, said in an e-mailed statement that Obama’s
proposal “falls exceptionally short in many critical areas --
including a lack of any substantive proposal for mandatory and
entitlement spending reform.”  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, said yesterday on ABC’s “This Week” program that
he is crafting an alternative budget that would drive down the
deficit through an overhaul of  Medicare (USBOMDCR) . Ryan has proposed
shifting Medicare to a voucher system, something the Obama
administration and congressional Democrats oppose.  While most agency budgets would be frozen or cut, Obama
proposed some new spending.  Obama’s six-year transportation proposal would expand
inter-city passenger rail and adds new funding for road and
bridge repair. The budget would also create a National
Infrastructure Bank to lend money for infrastructure projects
including a next-generation, wireless broadband network.  Boosting Economy  The budget includes about $350 billion aimed at boosting
the economy, including $30 billion for school modernization and
another $30 billion to help states retain teachers and first
responders. The plan calls for an estimated $140.8 billion to
spur research and development, including a 19 percent increase -
- to $2.2 billion -- in spending on advanced manufacturing
research and development.  As part of his short-term stimulus efforts, Obama today
announced an $8 billion Community College to Career Fund
proposal that would link businesses and community colleges to
train as many as 2 million workers for jobs in high-growth, high
demand industries.  Those areas include health care, advanced manufacturing,
transportation, clean energy and information technology,
according to the statement. The initiative, part of Obama’s Jan.
24 State of the Union speech, would be administered by the
Departments of Education and Labor.  School Performance  Obama proposed $850 million for his Race to the Top program
to improve school performance, a $301 million increase from
fiscal 2012.  The regulators responsible for enacting much of the Dodd-
Frank law’s financial-system overhaul would see gains under the
president’s proposal.  The Securities and Exchange Commission would receive a 19
percent boost to $1.6 billion. With that $245 million addition,
the agency would add 561 employees, including more examiners to
focus on  hedge funds  and more enforcement staff. It also would
use a special  reserve fund  to modernize its website, set up a
repository for its planned markets-tracking system and update
the EDGAR digital filing system.  The  Justice Department  also would receive an additional $55
million and create 328 positions to fight financial fraud,
including new FBI agents and forensic accountants. The
department would receive a total of $700 million to investigate
and prosecute past crimes related to the financial crisis and
possible future ones including securities and commodities fraud,
and investment and mortgage foreclosure scams.  CFTC Budget  The proposal would again try to get $308 million for the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission -- the same amount the
president asked for last year. That would be a 50 percent
increase from its current $205 million for the main U.S.
regulator of the $708 trillion global swaps market after its
budget was held almost flat for 2012.  The CFTC would increase its staff by 41 percent to prepare
for what it estimates will be a tripling in the number of
exchanges and trading platforms under its authority from 2011 to
2013.  Obama also requested $26 million and at least 50 people for
a new panel to investigate unfair trade practices by nations
including  China (TBBLCHNA) .  The funds would go to establish an Interagency Trade
Enforcement Center that would monitor and enforce trade
agreements and laws, according to an administration official.
Obama’s request coincides with Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping ’s scheduled arrival today for a U.S. visit.  The president announced his intention to create the panel,
which would include lawyers, researchers, analysts and agents
supported by the Commerce Department and U.S. Trade
Representative, in the State of the Union speech.  Obama proposed a $1.4 billion, or 3.2 percent, increase
over 2012 discretionary levels for the Department of Housing and
Urban Development. The $44.8 billion in proposed HUD funding
includes $34.8 billion aimed at preserving rental housing
assistance for an estimated 4.7 million low-income families.  Spending Cuts  The administration would eliminate funding for the National
Drug Intelligence Center, a Johnstown, Pennsylvania-based
component of the Justice Department championed by the late
Representative John Murtha, a Pennsylvania Democrat.  The functions of the center, including producing drug-
related intelligence reports, would be transferred to the Drug
Enforcement Administration. The center received $20 million in
fiscal 2012,  Obama’s 2013 Energy Department budget would cut more than
$40 billion in tax breaks for oil, gas and coal companies over
the next decade, echoing previously unsuccessful efforts to free
up money for clean energy and energy conservation.  Alternative Energy  The cuts come in an energy budget that provides $27.2
billion in spending authority, a 3.2 increase over 2012,
according to the budget summary. Where fossil fuels lose,
renewable energy and conservation programs may gain, reflecting
the administration’s continued commitment to alternative sources
of energy amid Republican criticism about the collapse of
Solyndra LLC.  Spending on  food-stamp benefits  is projected to fall 0.6
percent to $69.9 billion in 2013 as employment improves,
according to the Agriculture Department.  Spending for the food-stamp component of the Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program still would be the second-highest
on record and 17 percent higher than in 2011, the government
said in its forecast for Agriculture department spending.  Agriculture spending would rise 2.5 percent to $154.5
billion in the year starting Oct. 1 before cuts to crop
subsidies kick in, beginning long-term reductions in aid to
farmers. Ending so-called direct payments, paid to growers of
major crops regardless of commodity prices, would save $22.7
billion through 2022, although spending for all subsidies would
rise 20 percent to $12.1 billion in fiscal 2013.  Oil Tax Breaks  Obama renewed his proposal to cut more than $40 billion in
tax breaks for oil, gas and coal producers in the next decade to
spend more for conservation and  alternative energy .  The Energy Department budget also includes $12 million for
a multiyear research effort to reduce risks associated with
hydraulic fracturing in shale formations. Pipeline safety would
receive a 70 percent, or $64 million, increase.  Obama proposed a consolidation of  job-creation  programs.
Spending for Labor Department discretionary programs would drop
to $12 billion from $12.5 billion in 2011, the last time
agencies had an enacted budget. Spending would rise for worker-
protection programs.  EPA Funding  The budget would cut Environmental Protection Agency
spending for the third straight year by trimming funding for
water grants to U.S. states and Superfund clean-up programs.  The fiscal 2013 budget seeks $8.3 billion, which is $105
million below the current funding level for the agency,
according to White House documents released today. If Congress
approves the proposal, it would be the first time since 1994
that the agency’s budget was cut for three consecutive years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  