-- Investors Warm to Climate Firms Seeking Efficiency, Osmosis Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-02-13T17:43:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/investors-warm-to-climate-firms-seeking-efficiency-osmosis-says.html
Osmosis Investment Management LLP 
said investors are more prepared to buy into riskier climate-
related businesses that seek resource efficiency amid  population
growth  and higher  oil prices .  Osmosis tracks companies active in low-carbon services and
technologies through the Osmosis Climate Solutions Index. The
index is showing early signs of growth after underperforming in
the past few years, said Benjamin Dear, a partner at the London-
based investment management company.  The index gained 10.8 percent in January, bettering the
MSCI World Index of global shares that rose 4.9 percent in the
same month. Investor appetite for companies that use resources
efficiently is being driven by rising middle-class consumption
and higher fossil-fuel costs, Dear said.  This comes as renewable energy investments rose to a record
$260 billion last year, boosted by a surge in solar
developments, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the
London-based industry analyst. Solar stocks gained the most in a
month on Feb. 9 on speculation that demand for panels will
increase in  China . The  Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index (BLGS)  of
37 companies jumped 4.6 percent, the most since Jan. 11.  “What we have seen in the last six months is sentiment
changing to a more ‘risk-on’ environment for equities,” Dear
said in a Feb. 10 interview.  “Investors are starting to look at this more closely.
They’re seeing the businesses have a sensible business strategy
and can operate withstanding the pressures on financial markets
and governments,” he said. As some European governments cut
clean energy subsidies to tackle austerity measures, businesses
have restructured, emerging as well-managed companies, he said.  The Osmosis index follows 100 companies including  Renewable
Energy Corp ASA (REC) , EDP Renovaveis SA and LDK Solar Co. in the
renewables and low-carbon energy production,  energy efficiency 
and water and waste management sectors.  Member companies generate more than 50 percent of revenue
from products and solutions that help fight climate change or
use natural resources efficiently.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  