-- Iran Should Explain Curbs on E-mail Services, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-02-13T11:42:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/iran-should-explain-curbs-on-e-mail-services-lawmaker-says.html
Iran ’s government risks alienating
the public by restrictions it has imposed on e-mail services
including Google Inc.’s Gmail, a senior lawmaker said.  “The recent practice of blocking services that are used by
most people, without prior notice or reasonable explanation by
officials, will lead to complaints,” Ahmad Tavakoli, the head
of the parliament’s research center, told the  Mehr   news agency .
“Such an irritating ban will be costly for the government.”  More than 30 million Iranian  Internet users  have been
unable to access e-mail accounts, including Gmail and Microsoft
Corp.’s Hotmail, Mehr said on Feb. 11. The news agency  said  late
yesterday that local users are facing “slow internet,
disconnections and blockage” on certain domestic and
international websites.  Iranian government interference in the country’s
telecommunications isn’t rare. In the aftermath of the disputed
presidential election of 2009, which resulted in a second term
for  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , the government limited people’s access
to internet, satellite news channels and mobile phones, aiming
to prevent opposition movements from building momentum.  Google Inc.’s encrypted search, Gmail, Google Videos and
YouTube have been blocked in Iran since Feb. 10, the company
said in an e-mailed response to a query. Certain websites such
as Facebook and Twitter were already banned by the government.  Iran’s Information Technology Organization and the
Telecommunication Infrastructure Co. said they are unaware of
the issue, Mehr said on Feb 11. The head of the former, Saeed
Mahdioun, said that any problems wouldn’t be the responsibility
of his group and that he doesn’t use foreign e-mail services.  “Officials need to explain this issue to people in a clear
and transparent way,” Tavakoli said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  