-- Misys Said to Draw Private-Equity Interest Following Temenos
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-14T11:15:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/misys-said-to-draw-private-equity-interest-following-temenos.html
Misys Plc (MSY) , the financial-software
maker merging with Swiss competitor  Temenos Group AG (TEMN) , has
attracted interest from buyout firms and would consider
alternatives to that deal if they’re deemed better for
shareholders, two people familiar with the matter said.  Misys hasn’t solicited offers from potential acquirers,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
deliberations are private. Suitors have until March 6 to declare
interest in London-based Misys, according to a Feb. 7 statement
announcing the all-stock deal with Temenos. Misys rose as much
as 3.9 percent in London trading today.  An alternative bidder may threaten Misys’s tie-up with
Geneva-based Temenos, a deal that would create the largest
vendor of banking software in the world. Misys agreed last week
to the transaction, which would give its  shareholders  about 54
percent of the combined company.  Companies that sell financial software for businesses are
proving attractive to private-equity firms as mounting banking
regulations increase demand for up-to-date systems. In August
 Bain Capital  agreed to buy a majority stake in MYOB Pty Ltd., an
Australian provider of  business software  that had also attracted
a bid from Sage Group Plc.  A spokesman for Misys declined to comment.  Terms of the Deal  Under the terms of the Temenos merger, the Swiss company’s
shareholders will receive 4.1 Misys shares for every Temenos
share they hold.  Misys was up 4.2 percent at 302.5 pence at 11:12 a.m.,
giving it a market value of 1.01 billion pounds ($1.6 billion).
The stock has declined 7.3 percent since the Feb. 3 announcement
of merger talks with Temenos.  Six months ago, Misys’s talks to sell itself to Fidelity
National Information Services Inc. collapsed after the two
failed to agree on price, a person with knowledge of the matter
said then.  U.K. deals tend not to include breakup fees, typically
included in U.S. transactions, meaning a company that terminates
a deal to pursue a more convenient opportunity doesn’t
necessarily incur extra costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 