-- MIT Begins Offering Free Online Course With Certificate
-- B y   A n d r e w   T h e e n
-- 2012-02-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/mit-begins-offering-free-online-course-with-certificate.html
Massachusetts Institute of
Technology  will begin enrollment today for the first course in
its enhanced online platform, where students around the world
can take classes and get a certificate upon completion.  The first class -- 6.002x: Circuits and Electronics -- will
be free, though subsequent courses will come with a small fee,
MIT Provost L. Rafael Reif said in a phone interview. The three-
month course will begin March 5.  For the past 10 years, MIT has provided documents and
lecture notes online for more than 2,000 courses through its
 OpenCourseWare program  to more than 100 million people. Through
its new MITx initiative, non-MIT students will, for the first
time, have their performance assessed and receive certificates
if they show mastery in the subject, the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based school said in a statement.  “Anybody anywhere that has the time, motivation, drive to
learn this kind of material should be given the opportunity to
do so,” Reif said. The new program will have more interactive
features than MIT’s current OpenCourseWare offerings, he said.  Students will have video lectures, midterm and final exams,
weekly deadlines to complete homework and labs and access to
discussion forums. They can expect to spend about 10 hours a
week on the course, MIT said.  While enrollment in the first course is unlimited, the
college isn’t making predictions on how many students may sign
on. The introductory course calls for an advanced mathematics
and physics background.  “Our estimate could be off by orders of magnitude on the
lower or higher end,” Anant Agarwal, the lead instructor of the
class, said on a conference call. More courses will begin later
this year.  The circuits and electronics class will focus on the inner-
workings of smartphones and other “cool gadgets,” Agarwal said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Theen in New York at 
 atheen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  