-- Moody’s Cuts European Sovereigns
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-02-13T23:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/italy-spain-portugal-ratings-cut-by-moody-s-u-k-downgraded-to-negative.html
Moody’s Investors Service cut the
debt ratings of six European countries including Italy,  Spain 
and  Portugal  and revised its outlook on the U.K.’s and  France ’s
top Aaa ratings to “negative,” citing  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Spain was downgraded to A3 from A1 with a negative outlook,
Italy was downgraded to A3 from A2 with a negative outlook and
Portugal was downgraded to Ba3 from Ba2 with a negative outlook,
Moody’s said. It also reduced the ratings of Slovakia, Slovenia
and Malta.  “The uncertainty over the euro area’s prospects for
institutional reform of its fiscal and economic framework” and
the resources that will be made available to deal with the
crisis, are among the main drivers of Moody’s action, the
ratings company said.  The euro slipped 0.2 percent to $1.3154, and the pound
weakened 0.3 percent to $1.5723.  Standard & Poor’s  took away France’s and  Austria ’s top
credit ratings last month in a string of downgrades. Investors
poured money into the government bonds of nations such as France
and Austria even after the countries lost their AAA ratings at
Standard & Poor’s last month.  Moody’s also lowered its outlook on Austria’s Aaa rating
today to negative outlook. Malta’s rating was downgraded to A3
from A2 and given a negative outlook, and Slovakia and Slovenia
were both downgraded to A2 from A1 and given negative outlooks.  ‘Weak’ Prospects  “Europe’s increasingly weak macroeconomic prospects, which
threaten the implementation of domestic austerity programs and
the structural reforms that are needed to promote
competitiveness,” are also factors, Moody’s said in a
statement. These factors will continue to affect market
confidence, “which is likely to remain fragile, with a high
potential for further shocks to funding conditions for stressed
sovereigns and banks.”  French and Austrian securities beat AAA rated company debt
since the two nations were deprived of the highest ranking at
S&P on Jan. 13. U.S. Treasuries returned three times as much as
AAA corporate bonds since the world’s biggest economy was cut by
one rank in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Livesey at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net  