-- Italy Meets Target as Borrowing Costs Decline at 12 Billion Euro Bill Sale
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-02-13T11:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/italy-meets-target-as-borrowing-costs-decline-at-12-billion-euro-bill-sale.html
Italy  sold 12 billion euros ($15.9
billion) of Treasury bills today, meeting its target for the
auction, and borrowing costs fell to the lowest since June from
the previous sale.  The Rome-based Treasury sold 8.5 billion euros of 365-day
bills at 2.230 percent, the lowest since June 10 and down from
2.735 percent at the last auction of similar-maturity securities
on Jan. 12. Investors bid for 1.09 times the amount offered,
down from 1.47 times last month. The Treasury also sold 3.5
billion euros of 127-day bills at a rate of 1.546 percent, down
from 1.644 percent last time.  While “in pricing terms, Italy has turned a corner,” the
country “is starting to become a victim of its own success,”
Nicholas Spiro, managing of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London ,
said in an e-mail. “The dramatic fall in yields over the past
several weeks has driven down borrowing costs to levels where
demand is ebbing. Today’s auction is an illustration of this.”  The  Bank of Italy  said a technical problem delayed its
reception of purchase requests and may have affected the bid-to-
cover ratio on the 1-year bill sale, “which wasn’t particularly
brilliant,” according to an e-mailed statement from the Rome-
based central bank.  ECB Assistance  Italy, which needs to sell about 450 billion euros of debt
this year, has benefited from the  European Central Bank ’s
efforts to fight the sovereign debt crisis by shoring up banks
and propping up demand for  government bonds . The Frankfurt-based
institute loaned euro-region banks a record 489 billion euros
for three years on Dec. 21 to avert a credit crunch and has been
purchasing Italian bonds since August.  The auction comes after Greek lawmakers approved spending
cuts demanded by European finance chiefs, giving the indebted
nation the chance of a financial lifeline and reducing investor
demand for the safest assets. Italian 10-year bonds advanced,
with the yield at 5.53 percent at 11:54 a.m.  Rome  time, which is
seven basis points lower than on Feb. 10 and compares with a
euro-era high of 7.55 percent on Nov. 29.  Mario Monti , the unelected premier who took over after
Silvio Berlusconi’s resignation in November, pushed through 20
billion euros in spending cuts and tax increases in December
while reducing red tape that he blames for Italy’s stagnant
economy. Italian gross domestic product expanded at an annual
average of 0.4 percent in the decade through 2010, compared with
1.2 percent in the euro area.  Weakening Economy  Italy’s government projects GDP to fall 0.5 percent this
year while the  International Monetary Fund  forecasts a
contraction of 2.2 percent. Bank of Italy Director General
Fabrizio Saccomanni told reporters in Rome last week that he
expects the economy to shrink as much as 1.5 percent in 2012.  “As yields find a floor after several weeks of sharp
declines, more attention will be paid to Italy’s economic
fundamentals which are deteriorating markedly,” Spiro said.
“Right now, the market is unsure about the fair value of
Italian sovereign risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  