-- James ‘Whitey’ Bulger’s Trial Set for November Over Defense’s Objection
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-02-13T21:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/james-whitey-bulger-s-trial-set-for-november-over-defense-s-objection.html
James “Whitey” Bulger, the reputed
 Boston  mobster and former FBI informant who was captured last
year after 16 years on the run, will face trial Nov. 5, a
federal judge said.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Marianne Bowler in Boston set the
trial date today over the objection of Bulger’s court-appointed
attorney, J.W. Carney Jr. Prosecutors have inundated him with
580,000 pages of documents and 921 tapes of secret wiretaps
related to the 48-count racketeering indictment, Carney said.  “We can’t possibly be ready,” he told the judge. His
client didn’t attend today’s hearing.  Bulger, 82, and his girlfriend,  Catherine Greig , were
arrested in June after the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
working on a tip, lured the fugitive out of an apartment
building in  Santa Monica ,  California . Bulger was wanted in
connection with at least 19 murders committed from 1973 to 1985
and crimes including extortion, bookmaking and drug trafficking.  “I think it’s best I give you a strict timeline,” Bowler
told Carney and federal prosecutors. “I urge you to work in a
cooperative fashion. This is a monumental task.” She said
Carney could request funding to hire more lawyers.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Brian Kelly  told the judge that
Bulger is trying to delay trial by raising issues prosecutors
have already litigated.  ‘Run Out’ Clock  “Mr. Bulger is trying to run out the clock,” Kelly said.
He said Bulger’s attorney has suggested in court papers that he
may argue his client had immunity to commit crimes while working
as an informant under corrupt FBI agents.  The federal courts threw out an attempt by Bulger’s
partner, Stephen Flemmi, to claim immunity as an informant.  “FBI agents don’t have the authority to grant immunity,”
Kelly said.  Bulger’s and Flemmi’s former FBI handler, John J. Connolly
Jr., served a 10-year federal sentence for racketeering and is
now serving 40 years in state prison in  Florida  for his role in
the murder of a former Bulger associate in Miami.  The case is U.S. v. Bulger, 99-10371, U.S. District Court,
District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@mac.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 