-- Japan’s Economy Shrinks More Than Forecast
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-02-13T00:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/japan-economy-shrank-at-2-3-annual-pace-last-quarter-more-than-estimated.html
Japan ’s economy contracted more than
economists forecast in the fourth quarter as exports slid on
weakness in global demand and strength in the yen.  Gross domestic product shrank an annualized 2.3 percent in
the three months ended Dec. 31, following a revised 7 percent
expansion in the previous quarter, the Cabinet Office said today
in Tokyo. The median forecast of 26 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 1.3 percent decline.  A pick-up in earthquake reconstruction work may aid a
return to growth this quarter even as gains in the currency pare
export earnings, worsening losses for companies such as  Sony
Corp. (6758)   The  Bank of Japan  may refrain from additional easing
tomorrow as officials assess a mixed global picture, from
improved U.S. employment to weaker Chinese trade and  Europe ’s
progress in taming its debt crisis, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  “The economy may have dipped into a contraction in the
fourth quarter, but it would be temporary,” Seiji Adachi, a
senior economist at Deutsche Securities Inc. in Tokyo, said
before today’s data. “There’s no need to be overly pessimistic
about the economic outlook as the overseas economies, such as
the U.S., are starting to pick up.”  The nation’s currency climbed to a postwar record of 75.35
per dollar on Oct. 31, making exports less competitive.
Manufacturers have also been hurt by flooding in  Thailand  that
disrupted production, while energy imports because of nuclear
shutdowns lead to the first annual trade deficit since 1980.  Quake Reconstruction  Parliament last week passed Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s
2.5 trillion yen ($32 billion) recovery package from the
earthquake and tsunami, the fourth supplementary budget since
the disaster. The government will allocate 300 billion yen for
the eco-friendly car subsidies as part of its fourth extra
budget.  Public investment in reconstruction works, which was
delayed mainly by administrative limitations, will start to kick
in, said Masayuki Kichikawa at Merrill Lynch Japan Securities
Co.  “If exports stop falling as the impact of the flooding in
Thailand winds down, overall GDP is likely to return to
growth,” Kichikawa said before the report.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said last week
that the economy is in a “severe” condition because of
deflation and gains in the yen.  ‘In a Lull’  “Japan’s economy is in a lull,”  Kiichi Murashima , chief
economist at Citigroup Global Markets Japan Inc. in Tokyo, said
before the report. “Japan’s economy will likely remain
vulnerable to a slowdown in global demand and the yen’s
appreciation.’  Panasonic, the world’s largest maker of plasma televisions,
said on Feb. 3 that it almost doubled its annual loss forecast
to a record 780 billion yen because of Thailand floods and
slowing demand for TVs.  Sony, Japan’s largest consumer-electronics exporter, said
on Feb. 2 that it widened its full-year net loss forecast to 220
billion yen from the 90 billion-yen loss predicted in November.  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates that Japan’s
economy will grow 1.7 percent in 2012, compared with a likely
1.8 percent expansion for the U.S. and an estimated 0.5 percent
contraction for the euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in  Tokyo  at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  