-- Japan Swings to Contraction as Yen Undermines Exports: Economy
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-02-13T04:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/japan-economy-shrinks-more-than-estimated-2-3-as-strong-yen-hits-exports.html
Japan ’s economy shrank an annualized
2.3 percent in the fourth quarter, more than economists
estimated, as slumping exports undermine a recovery from last
year’s record earthquake.  The contraction compared with the median forecast for a 1.3
percent decline in a Bloomberg News survey of 26 economists.
Growth was a revised 7 percent in the previous quarter, the
Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo.  Today’s report underscores pressure on  Bank of Japan 
officials meeting today and tomorrow to consider more monetary
easing as gains in the yen worsen losses for companies from  Sony
Corp. (6758)  to  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  At the same time, the world’s third-
biggest economy may get a boost this quarter from more
reconstruction work, fading disruptions from floods in Thailand,
and signs of improvements in the U.S.  “The drop was mainly due to weak exports exacerbated by
slowing global demand and the impact of the Thai floods,”
 Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at  Itochu Corp. (8001) , said in
Tokyo today. The central bank may reserve more easing for any
“excessive yen gains and a deterioration in overseas
economies,” Maruyama said.  In  Hong Kong , Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said the
city’s economy may shrink if exports fail to improve this
quarter, according to a transcript posted on a government
website yesterday. In  China , Premier Wen Jiabao said economic
“fine-tuning” may be needed as early as this quarter,
according to a Xinhua News Agency report yesterday.  Asian Stocks Climb  In Australia, home-loan approvals jumped by the most in
seven months in December after interest-rate reductions, a
statistics bureau report showed.  Asian stocks advanced, after Greek lawmakers approved
austerity measures to secure bailout funds. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index rose 0.7 percent as of 1:08 p.m. in  Tokyo . The yen
traded at 77.58 per dollar, compared with a postwar record of
75.35 per dollar on Oct. 31.  In other economic reports due today,  Germany  will release
wholesale price data, Switzerland gives producer and import
prices, and Mexico may report that industrial production grew
0.5 percent in December from the previous month after a 0.1
percent gain in November.  In Japan, analyst Junko Nishioka at RBS Securities Japan
Ltd. forecasts that GDP will expand 1.6 percent this quarter and
 Masamichi Adachi , senior economist at JP Morgan Securities in
Tokyo, forecasts 1.8 percent growth.  ‘Gradual Recovery’  Economy Minister Motohisa Furukawa cited the Thai floods
and a “weak overseas recovery” for the fourth-quarter
contraction, adding that the economy will “continue recovering
slowly” and is on an upward swing. “We expect a steady
increase in exports on a gradual recovery in the global
economy,” Furukawa said.  Net exports, or overseas shipments less imports, subtracted
2.6 percentage points from annualized GDP, today’s report
showed.  Fuel shipments are swelling the import bill after nuclear
plant shutdowns because of the earthquake and tsunami last
March. Japan’s government today agreed to $8.9 billion of aid
for Tokyo Electric Power Co., the owner of the crippled
Fukushima plant.  Capital investment  rose 7.9 percent, the first increase in
five quarters, and  consumer spending  rose 1.2 percent, the third
straight advance.  Shirakawa, Furukawa  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said last week
that the economy is in a “severe” condition because of
deflation and gains in the yen. The  GDP deflator , a gauge of
price trends, fell 1.6 percent in the fourth quarter from a year
earlier. In nominal terms, GDP contracted an annualized 3.1
percent from the previous quarter.  Furukawa said yesterday on television that the central bank
may need to improve communication of its stance on prices, after
the Wall Street Journal cited an unnamed person as saying that
the topic would be considered by officials. So far, the BOJ has
avoided setting an explicit inflation target.  Panasonic, the world’s largest maker of plasma televisions,
said on Feb. 3 that it almost doubled its annual loss forecast
to a record 780 billion yen because of the Thailand floods and
slowing demand for TVs.  Sony, Japan’s largest consumer-electronics exporter, said
on Feb. 2 that it widened its full-year net loss forecast to 220
billion yen from the 90 billion-yen loss predicted in November.  Earthquake Reconstruction  First-quarter growth may get a boost as earthquake
reconstruction work kicks in, said Masayuki Kichikawa at Merrill
Lynch Japan Securities Co.  Parliament last week passed Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s
2.5 trillion yen ($32 billion) recovery package from the
earthquake and tsunami, the fourth supplementary budget since
the disaster. The government will allocate 300 billion yen for
the eco-friendly car subsidies as part of its fourth extra
budget.  “If exports stop falling as the impact of the flooding in
Thailand winds down, overall GDP is likely to return to
growth,” Kichikawa said before the report.  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates that Japan’s
economy will grow 1.7 percent in 2012, compared with a likely
1.8 percent expansion for the U.S. and an estimated 0.5 percent
contraction for the euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  