-- Jeremy Lin Drives Sales of Knicks’ Merchandise as MSG Shares Reach Record
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-02-13T21:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/jeremy-lin-drives-knicks-sales-as-msg-shares-climb-to-record.html
Jeremy Lin’s one-week rise from
backup to the  National Basketball Association ’s Eastern
Conference Player of the Week helped drive shares in his boss,
 Madison Square Garden (MSG)  Co., to a record high and produced the
league’s best-selling jersey.  Since the beginning of the weekend, the  Modell’s Sporting
Goods Inc.  outlet on 34th street and Broadway in Midtown
Manhattan, near the Knicks’s home court, has run through
multiple shipments of Lin gear, including his No. 17 jersey and
T-shirts celebrating “Linsanity,” the catch phrase adopted by
the team since the Asian-American Harvard University graduate
led the club to a season-best five straight wins in eight days.  The jersey is the NBA’s top online seller since Feb. 4,
when Lin first dazzled NBA fans. Sales of Knicks merchandise are
higher than any other team in the league since then, accounting
for five of the 10 most popular items.  “Just last week I was reading in the paper about him for
the first time,” Miguel Gutierrez, the 28-year-old assistant
manager at Modell’s, said in an interview. “I didn’t see this
coming. We’re pretty much going to be getting new stuff every
day.”  Lin, a 23-year-old second-year player, was cut by the
 Golden State Warriors  and  Houston Rockets  before joining the
Knicks on Dec. 27.  He introduced himself to Garden fans with a 25-point,
seven-assist performance in a Feb. 4 win over the  New Jersey
Nets , playing extended minutes for the first time with the team.  Streak Continues  Two days later he had 28 points and eight assists against
the  Utah Jazz , the first player since Isiah Thomas in 1981 to
reach those numbers in his first career start.  He followed with a 23-point, 10-assist game against former
No. 1 draft pick John Wall and the  Washington Wizards  before
eclipsing five-time NBA champion  Kobe Bryant  with a 38-point,
seven-assist performance against the  Los Angeles Lakers  on Feb.
10.  No other player in NBA history has scored at least 20
points and collected seven assists in his first four starts,
according to the Elias Sports Bureau.  The Knicks’ average household television rating is up 70
percent since Lin, who was named the NBA’s Eastern Conference
Player of the Week, moved into the starting lineup. The win at
the  Minnesota Timberwolves  on Feb. 11 was the highest rated on
MSG since Carmelo Anthony’s February 2011 debut with the team.  Shares in Madison Square Garden, which also owns the
National Hockey League’s New York Rangers, climbed 3.8 percent
to $32.32 today at 4:04 p.m., after trading at a record-high
$33.18 this morning. It’s up 10 percent since Feb. 3, the day
before the team’s winning run began. Madison Square Garden, now
valued at $2.45 billion, was spun off by  Cablevision Systems
Corp. (CVC)  in February 2010.  Buy Time  “We even talked about buying MSG stock because of him,”
said Li Ouyang, a Manhattan resident who bought a white Lin
kids’ jersey for $39.99 even though she said she’s not a big
basketball fan. “We should have done that before the Lakers
game.”  Lin’s play might help Madison Square Garden shares by
bringing an end to the programming-fee standoff between the
company and Time Warner Cable Inc., according to  David Joyce , an
analyst at  Miller Tabak & Co.  in New York. Time Warner Cable’s
2.8 million MSG subscribers lost access to the channels on Jan.
1, with the two sides haggling over prices.  “Shares keep going up because he’s come on and is doing a
great job,” Joyce, who doesn’t own MSG shares and gives them a
neutral rating, said of Lin. “That hope then translates into
maybe this gets Time Warner Cable and MSG back to the
negotiating table.”  Small Impact  Increased Knicks’ merchandise sales would be worth “single
digit millions” to Madison Square Garden revenue, Joyce said in
a telephone interview.  “It’s a rounding error compared to not having the ad
revenue or affiliate fees but it does help to some degree,” he
said.  The Knicks had their first winning season in a decade last
year and moved to 13-15 two nights ago against  Minnesota . Lin,
8-for-24 from the floor, set up Steve Novak for a game-tying 3-
pointer and New York won 100-98 after Lin sank a foul shot for a
one-point lead.  “It was an ugly one, it was a gutsy one,” Lin told
reporters. “Everybody was tired. But that’s the duty of
basketball. We never gave up. I struggled a lot tonight but, I
mean, everyone who came in gave us a lift and picked us up.”  Upcoming Games  Anthony has missed the win streak with a groin injury
sustained against the Jazz, while an All-Star teammate, Amar’e Stoudemire, probably will return tomorrow night at the  Toronto
Raptors  after missing four games following the death of his
brother in a car accident. The Knicks lost 90-85 when the teams
met January 2.  The Knicks have climbed into postseason contention.
Entering last night’s games they were in eighth place in the
NBA’s Eastern Conference. The top eight teams in each conference
make the playoffs.  After playing the Raptors, the Knicks begin a five-game
home stand against the  Sacramento Kings , the New Orleans
Hornets, the defending-champion  Dallas Mavericks , the Nets and
the  Atlanta Hawks .  The average price for a ticket to one of those home games
has surged by 20 percent in six days, according to  TiqIQ , an
aggregator of the online ticket resale market.  The average price for the Kings visit on Feb. 15 was $190
yesterday morning, a 26 percent increase, Chris Matcovich, a
spokesman for TiqIQ, said in an e-mail.  Shirt Appeal  With more exposure, including increased television coverage
for the Knicks in  Asia ,  NBAStore.com  is selling Lin jerseys at
three  price levels  and will offer the same styles in youth sizes
this week, along with additional T-shirt styles and women’s
apparel.  Karen Devries, a nurse at Beth Israel Medical Center in  New
York , couldn’t wait. She bought a white kids extra-large Lin
jersey because Modell’s was out of adult sizes.  “It’s been a long time since we had somebody get the
Garden to that level of excitement,” Devries, a Knicks season-
ticket holder, said in an interview. “I don’t think he’s a one-
week thing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  