-- Sandusky Will Get Supervised Visits With Grandchildren Under Modified Bail
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-02-13T19:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/jerry-sandusky-gets-modified-bail.html
Jerry Sandusky, the former
 Pennsylvania  State University assistant football coach charged
with sexually abusing 10 boys, will be allowed supervised visits
with his grandchildren, a judge ruled, denying prosecutors’
requests for stricter limitations.  Sandusky, who is under home confinement, asked the court
last month to modify his bail conditions so he may have visits
with his 11 grandchildren, entertain friends and leave his home
to help locate potential defense witnesses. State court Judge
John M. Cleland in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, today granted the
request, excluding visits with three grandchildren who are
subject to custody litigation.  “The conditions of bail must always be analyzed bearing in
mind the presumption of innocence and the purposes of bail,”
Cleland said in his ruling.  Sandusky, 68, a former defensive coordinator for  Penn
State , is charged with more than 50 counts stemming from alleged
abuse of boys over a 15-year period. He waived a preliminary
hearing in December. Cleland last week set a tentative trial
date of May 14.  Witness Names Denied  Cleland today also denied the state’s request for an out-
of-county jury and ordered prosecutors to answer Sandusky’s
request for information detailing the alleged offenses. He
denied Sandusky’s request for the names, addresses and dates of
birth of potential prosecution witnesses. The defense has
already been given the names of Sandusky’s accusers.  Nils Frederiksen, a spokesman for Attorney General Linda Kelly, said the rulings are “under review.”  Joseph Amendola, an attorney for Sandusky, applauded the
rulings as “fair and consistent.”  “Jerry pursued visitation with his grandkids because they
missed him and wanted to see him and communicate with him,”
Amendola said in an e-mailed statement.  “Jerry is also happy he can now have visitation with long
time friends with the prior approval of the probation department
and will be able to continue to use the deck to his home to
exercise, care for and supervise his dog Bo,” Amendola said in
the statement.  Prosecutors had asked Cleland to impose new conditions
confining Sandusky to inside his home after neighbors complained
about the proximity of his residence to an elementary school.
Prosecutors also said the ex-wife of Sandusky’s son Matthew
didn’t want her three children having contact with the former
coach.  Not a Threat  Cleland said he would allow the judge in the custody case
to make the decision about Matthew Sandusky’s children. Cleland
told Sandusky to provide the probation department with a list of
as many as 12 people he wants authorized to visit. The program
coordinator at the probation department may approve all, some or
none of the names, Cleland said.  The state failed to present evidence that Sandusky poses a
threat to students at the nearby school, Cleland said.  “The generalized concerns of parents, while
understandable, cannot justify additional bail restrictions in
the absence of some evidence from the commonwealth that the
defendant’s presence or behavior on his deck presents a danger
to the community,” Cleland wrote in a 13-page order.  Prosecutors say Sandusky is a serial child molester who
used a charity he founded for needy children to recruit victims,
grooming them with gifts, trips to Penn State football games and
money before molesting them.  Penn State Firings  The case led to last year’s firings of university President
 Graham Spanier  and coach  Joe Paterno , who headed the football
program at Penn State for 46 years. Paterno died last month.  Penn State Athletics Director Timothy Curley and former
Vice President  Gary Schultz , who oversaw the university police,
have been charged with lying to a grand jury about a 2002 sex-
abuse allegation against Sandusky and failing to report the
incident to police.  Lawyers for Curley today filed court papers seeking to
dismiss the perjury charge because Paterno has died.  The prosecution’s case against Curley “fails as no other
facts or witnesses were presented at the preliminary hearing to
establish corroboration,” Caroline Roberto, one of Curley’s
lawyers, wrote in court papers.  Locker Room  Another judge in December ordered the case against Curley
and Schultz to trial after Penn State assistant football coach
 Mike McQueary  testified at a hearing that he told the two
officials he’d seen Sandusky with a 10-year-old boy in a locker
room in March 2002.  The two are free on $75,000 bail.  At the December hearing, prosecutors read into the record
Paterno’s seven-minute testimony before a grand jury in January
2011. Paterno testified he was told the incident was of a
“sexual nature.” He said he reported McQueary’s allegations to
Curley within a week.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  