-- Junius Peake, Early Advocate of Electronic Securities Trading, Dies at 80
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-02-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/junius-peake-early-advocate-of-electronic-trading-dies-in-colorado-at-80.html
Junius Peake, who poked and prodded
the finance industry as one of the earliest, most persistent
proponents of electronic trading, has died. He was 80.  He died on Jan. 27 in  hospice care  at Northern  Colorado 
Medical Center in Greeley, Colorado, said his son, Andrew. He
suffered a series of strokes over the past few years, following
his retirement in 2006 as professor of finance at the  Monfort
College of Business , part of the University of Northern Colorado
in Greeley.  Peake, known as Jay, had a front-row view as Wall Street
firms were inundated by paper during what became known as the
back-office crisis of the late 1960s. As partner in charge of
operations at the Manhattan brokerage firm Shields & Co., he
oversaw the use of a $500,000 computer system the firm purchased
in 1964 from National Cash Register Co., now known as NCR Corp.  The computer, which some employees called “the monster,”
calmed the frenzy of settlement days, the  New York  Times
reported in a 1965 article. “Our overtime has been minimal
recently,” Peake told the Times.  The back-office experience shaped Peake’s view that buying
and selling by shouting on trading floors such as the New York
Stock Exchange “was no longer viable in the modern world and
that it was essential to move to automated trading,” he wrote
in a four-page summary of his career. “This was a change in
which I passionately believed, and I began to express my
opinions and suggestions for change in many articles and papers,
which led to me being asked to testify at various congressional
hearings.”  Rethinking the Exchange  Peake teamed up with two like-minded financial thinkers --
 Morris Mendelson , a professor of finance at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, and R.T. Williams Jr., a computer
expert -- to devise an electronic stock exchange, presenting
their idea to the Securities and Exchange Commission in 1975.  “We wrote the SEC proposal in less than two weeks,” Peake
told the  Philadelphia Inquirer  in 2008. “Some Luddites argued
we were going to kill the NYSE, put many specialists out of
business, and ruin the U.S. financial system. They thought we
were the devil incarnate.”  The three men refined their idea and publicized it in
papers published in 1976 and 1979. Their 1976 proposal was
contained in a 50-page report to the SEC entitled “National
Book System: An Electronically Assisted Auction Market.”  New Vision  It envisioned a single, electronic national stock market,
with up-to-the-minute bids and offers available for all brokers
and customers to see on computer screens.  The plan also called for quoting prices in decimals, doing
away with the one-eighth increments that had long defined  Wall
Street  math. “This would make the markets better because
decimalization would create genuine price competition for
securities,” Peake wrote. “However, this was resisted, as the
market preferred the nice wide spreads, which trading in
fractions brings.”  Fractions would remain in place until 2000, when  stock
exchanges  moved to the dollars-and-cents pricing that Peake and
others had called for.  In 1981, Peake and Eugene M. Grummer, a former senior vice
president at Merrill Lynch International, announced plans to
open the first electronic trading system for futures contracts,
the International Futures Exchange, or Intex, based in  Bermuda .
They promised to provide “the most advanced computer
technology” to as many as 600 members who would order contracts
for future delivery on terminals in their offices, according to
a news release they issued at the time.  ‘Before Its Time’  The exchange opened in 1984, two years behind schedule,
with Grummer as chairman. It didn’t attract much business and
lasted only a few years. “It was a great idea before its
time,” Andrew Peake, 51, a  money manager  at Morgan Stanley’s
private wealth management group in New York, said yesterday in
an interview.  He said his father “never patented his ideas, never got
rich from all this. He’s one of the few guys on Wall Street who
wasn’t rich after being at it as long as he was. He just knew
that after a while the world would come around to his ideas.”  Junius Wentworth Peake was born on Feb. 12, 1931, in  New
York City , where he attended choir school at the Cathedral
Church of Saint John the Divine. He left  Syracuse University 
after just one year to work on Wall Street to help support his
family, after his father suffered a stroke.  Ticker Tape  Before joining Shields he worked at Garvin Bantel & Co.
starting in 1950. His first assignment, he said, was changing
the ink on the ticker machine. He observed that trading in those
days “was tilted in favor of the people who ran the trading
venues, whereas it seemed to me that the markets should serve
the needs of their customers,” he wrote.  He had two sons, Andrew and James, with his first wife,
Jean. That marriage ended in divorce. Survivors include his
second wife, Diane Ryerson-Peake.  Before and after his move to academia, he was outspoken
about the inevitability of electronic trading and the need for
the U.S. to stop resisting it.  “I’m scared we’re going to blow it as a country and lose
our  capital markets ,” he told Newsday in 1988.  When the NYSE announced in 2005 that it would merge with
electronic trading operator Archipelago, Peake scoffed at the
pledge by  John Thain , then the exchange’s chief executive, that
a “hybrid” of floor and electronic trading would be preserved.  “It is the end of the floor,” he told the Times, “in
spite of what John Thain says.”  In the career summary he composed in his later years, Peake
wrote that it was “satisfying to see so many of my ideas
implemented in today’s markets -- perhaps especially because
they were so widely derided when first suggested.”  He titled his composition, “A Career on The Street: From
Heretic to Sage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  