-- Keeping Patients Happy Hurts Outcomes as Costs Rise
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-02-13T22:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/keeping-patients-happy-hurts-outcomes-as-costs-rise-california-study-says.html
Patients are more satisfied when
doctors give them what they want, though it’s not always the
best treatment strategy, a study suggests.  Healthy outcomes didn’t correlate with satisfaction in a
study that surveyed more than 50,000 people nationally from 2000
to 2007. Patients who were the most satisfied spent more on care
and medicine, compared with the least content, according to the
 report  published today in the Archives of  Internal Medicine .
They also were 26 percent more likely to die.  Patient satisfaction is increasingly used as a metric for
quality of care, boosting doctor pay and health insurer loyalty,
the researchers said. Doctors are paid for each service they
provide, so they aren’t encouraged to consider whether a service
is necessary, said  Joshua Fenton , the study’s lead author.  “We may be encouraging spending money on health care that
ultimately is harmful to our population,” Fenton, an assistant
professor of family and community medicine at the  University of
California, Davis , said in a telephone interview. “In our
system, so much focus is on consumption, which can mean
treatment with more risk than benefit.”  Doctors urged to make patients more satisfied may not bring
up topics that challenge or disturb them, such as substance
abuse, the researchers wrote in the study. The physicians also
may fail to emphasize the risks when patients ask for tests that
are medically unnecessary, the authors wrote.  “Patients do make requests of physicians, and physicians
often honor those requests,” Fenton said. “Satisfaction is not
linked to quality of care.”  Those patients who were most satisfied among four groups
ranked by satisfaction spent about 9 percent more on health care
and  prescription drugs . While use of emergency rooms was lower
for the group, inpatient admissions were higher, the researchers
found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  