-- Keystone’s Thousands of Jobs Fall to 20 When Pipeline Opens
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-02-13T17:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/keystone-s-thousands-of-jobs-fall-to-20-when-pipeline-opens-1-.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL oil
pipeline, heralded by supporters as a major job creator, will
add few permanent positions once the $7 billion project is
built.  The number of people needed to operate and maintain the
1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) pipeline may be as few as 20,
according to the U.S. State Department, or as many as a few
hundred, according to TransCanada.  “I don’t see a big jobs impact,” Stephen Fuller, director
of the Center for Regional Analysis at  George Mason University 
in Arlington,  Virginia , said in an interview. “It gets the oil
into refineries that already exist. It’s like replacing a bridge
on the highway.”  The debate in  Washington  has focused on short-term
construction and manufacturing jobs, rather than on permanent
ones. Estimates for construction and manufacturing employment
range from 2,500 to 20,000, depending on assumptions of how much
of the project’s budget will be spent in the U.S. The company
says some of the steel will be made in  Canada  and  India .  TransCanada Vice President Robert Jones said permanent jobs
would be “in the hundreds, certainly not in the thousands,” in
a Nov. 11 interview on CNN.  Calgary-based TransCanada says construction will create
20,000 “new, real U.S. jobs.”  Temporary Jobs  Those positions represent temporary jobs that will “vary
in length,” TransCanada spokesman Shawn Howard said. The job
forecast for the $7 billion project includes 13,000 in
construction and 7,000 in manufacturing.  “At the end of the day, it’s 20,000 people who are going
to be getting checks from a contractor we hired,” Howard said.  TransCanada plans to use an average of six or seven
construction workers for every mile of Keystone XL, higher than
the four to five workers needed for each mile of pipeline on
earlier phases of the project already completed, according to a
Dec. 19 report by Bloomberg Government.  “This suggests that TransCanada either intends to hire
more workers for shorter periods of time and speed up the
project, or that the company’s pipeline jobs estimate is
overstated,” according to the report.  Ray Perryman, a consultant hired by TransCanada to assess
the economic impact of the project, said 20,000 temporary jobs
equates to 10,000 full-time jobs.  State Department Estimate  “The average number of full-time equivalent jobs per year
will depend on the construction time (10,000 if two years, 8,000
if 2.5 years, etc.),” Perryman said in an e-mail. “The most
important concept is that construction jobs are temporary.”  The State Department, which has jurisdiction over the
project because it crosses an international border, estimates
the construction workforce will be between 5,000 and 6,000. A
study from the Cornell Global Labor Institute School of
Industrial and Labor Relations in  New York  says construction
jobs may be in the 2,500 to 4,650 range.  Job forecasts are based on the number of positions created
for every dollar spent, according to Lara Skinner, associate
director of research at Cornell and author of the Keystone jobs
report. TransCanada is overstating construction jobs by assuming
the entire project budget will be spent in the U.S. when about
half will be spent on the Canadian segment and on design and
permitting in the U.S. and Canada, Skinner said.  The pipeline will support 127 permanent jobs, she said.  Pump Stations  Skinner’s analysis doesn’t take into account the fact that
the project has already created jobs, TransCanada’s Howard said.  “Pump stations are being manufactured,” he said. “Those
are jobs that weren’t there. You don’t build a project like this
with ghosts.”  Even higher projections come from assumptions about how the
project would affect the broad economy. The boost will come when
businesses hire “hundreds of thousands” of new workers
assuming the pipeline lowers oil prices, according to backers
such as U.S. Senator  Richard Lugar , an Indiana Republican.
Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, called
those numbers “grossly inflated.”  Lugar’s “hundreds of thousands” estimate is based in part
on Perryman’s 2010 study for TransCanada, according to the
senator’s spokesman, Andy Fisher.  Perryman, president of the Waco, Texas-based Perryman
Group, a financial analysis firm, said that new supply from
Canada will lower U.S. oil prices by about 1 percent.  Permanent Jobs  The savings to U.S. companies would lead to 250,348 and
553,235 permanent jobs over the life of the pipeline, an
estimate that reflects “the long-term effects of having a more
stable source of that level of oil supply,” Perryman said in an
e-mail.  Because the pipeline would replace “dwindling and/or less
reliable” supplies from Venezuela and  Mexico , Canadian oil “is
unlikely” to change the level of U.S. oil imports or “cause an
increase in employment or other economic activity,” the State
Department said in a Jan. 18 report to Congress.  TransCanada, which has not cited indirect job gains, stands
by Perryman’s findings, Howard said.  “Common sense tells you that when you have more and more
supply coming into a market it does have competitive pressure on
prices,” Howard said in an interview.  TransCanada applied for a permit in 2008. The State
Department announced in November it would delay a decision until
2013 to evaluate a new route that would avoid the Sandhills
region of the Ogallala aquifer in Nebraska, which serves 1.5
million people.  Indian Steel  That pushed until after the 2012 presidential election a
decision on a project that’s supported by some labor
organizations and opposed by environmental groups. Congressional
Republicans sought to accelerate a decision, prompting Obama to
reject the pipeline in January. Legislation that would transfer
power over the project from Obama to the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission advanced last week in the house.  The  Natural Resources Defense Council , 350.org, and  Sierra
Club  announced today a campaign to have their members e-mail and
call their senators to say Keystone XL is dangerous. They plan
to take boxes of signed protest letters to the offices of Harry
Reid, the Senate majority leader and a Democrat from  Nevada , and
the chamber’s Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky 
tomorrow, groups leaders said.  Steel Pipe  The same groups previously organized sit-downs and human
chains around the White House, encouraging Obama to reject the
investment.  The 7,000 manufacturing jobs projected by TransCanada will
come from making “hundreds of millions of dollars” of steel
pipe, fittings, valves and other equipment, according to
TransCanada. The company has contracts with more than 50
suppliers in the U.S.  The pipeline will require more than 800,000 tons of 36-inch
carbon steel pipe, about half of which will be produced outside
of the U.S., Skinner said. TransCanada has contracted with
Mumbai, India-based  Welspun Corp Ltd (WLCO) , India’s second-biggest
producer of pipes, and Moscow-based Evraz Plc, a Russian
steelmaker, for steel pipe.  Evraz will make pipe for Keystone XL at its mills in
Canada, according to the Cornell report. Welspun will probably
make pipe in India for final processing at its plant in
 Arkansas , an arrangement that allows TransCanada to state that
about 75 percent of the pipe for the U.S. portion of the project
will be purchased from North American plants, according to the
Cornell report.  Waxman Letter  Last week, Congressional Democrats led by Representative Henry Waxman, of  California , asked TransCanada Chief Executive
Officer  Russ Girling  to disclose where steel for the project
will be manufactured.  “TransCanada is entitled to decide where to purchase its
materials,” Waxman’s Feb. 10 letter said. “However, providing
misleading information to Congress in order to obtain a
legislative earmark for the approval of its pipeline would be
clearly improper.”  TransCanada plans to buy as much steel as possible in  North
America  and to build about half the pipe in the U.S., Howard
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  