-- KGHM Board Ends Discussion on Quadra Purchase, Chairman Says
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-02-13T16:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/kghm-board-ends-discussion-on-quadra-purchase-chairman-says-1-.html
The supervisory board of  KGHM Polska
Miedz SA (KGH)  has ended a review of the Polish sole copper producer’s
agreement to buy Canada’s  Quadra FNX Mining Ltd. (QUX) , Chairman Jacek Kucinski said.  The board held a second meeting in the last 17 days on the
purchase, which state-controlled KGHM agreed in December,
Kucinski said in a phone interview today. The panel didn’t make
any new decisions today, he said.  “It’s a signal to shareholders that the transaction has
government backing,” said Robert Maj, an analyst at KBC
Securities in Warsaw. “Now there’s one less reason to doubt the
deal will go through.”  KGHM, based in Lubin, south-western  Poland , agreed to buy
Quadra for C$2.87 billion ($2.87 billion) in what would be the
largest foreign acquisition by a Polish company. KGHM is buying
companies abroad to cut production costs and raise output.  Five of the panel’s 10 members were replaced last month at
a shareholders meeting. The previous board approved the Quadra
agreement before it was signed on Dec. 6.  The Polish government, which holds a 32 percent stake in
KGHM, wanted to find out more about the purchase, approved
before Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski joined the cabinet,
Magdalena Kobos, a spokeswoman for the ministry, said on Jan.
24.  The board will next meet in mid-March, after Quadra’s
shareholders vote on the takeover on Feb. 20., Kucinski said.
The panel will “most probably” discuss the company’s 2012
budget during that meeting.  “We won’t know for certain what’s going to happen until
Feb. 20,” Maj said. “Doubts remain about how Quadra
shareholders will vote and whether there’ll be a counterbid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pawel Kozlowski at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net  