-- Naira Retreats Most in Two Weeks on Bets of Oil Dollar Decline
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-02-13T14:54:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/naira-declines-1st-day-in-five-on-bets-of-oil-dollar-decline.html
Nigeria ’s naira depreciated the most
in two weeks against the dollar on speculation oil industry
dollar sales will decline, putting the local currency under
pressure.  The currency of  Africa ’s largest oil producer declined 0.2
percent to 159.11 per dollar as of 3:30 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, headed for its biggest fall since Jan. 30,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nigeria’s central bank offers foreign currency to lenders
at twice-weekly auctions and the  interbank market  as it tries to
keep the exchange rate around a midpoint of 155 naira to a
dollar. The oil industry is the next major source of dollar
supply to lenders, particularly around the month-end when
companies exchange dollar earnings for naira to meet local
obligations. The naira appreciated at the interbank foreign
exchange market last week on the back of dollar sales by  oil
companies , analysts at Lagos-based Cowry Asset Management Ltd.
said in a note to clients today.  “Traders are expecting a slowdown in oil industry dollar
sales halfway in the new month, creating uncertainly on the
supply side of the market,” Sewa Wusa, currency analyst at
Lagos-based Sterling Capital, said by phone. The central bank
may not be able to meet the additional demand, putting the naira
under pressure, he said.  Dollar Sale  Nigeria sold $250 million at a foreign-currency auction
today, the Abuja-based  Central Bank of Nigeria  said, without
mentioning the amount demanded by lenders. Dollars were sold for
between 156.50 naira and 156.92 naira each, with the marginal
rate, which is also used as the prevailing  exchange rate  at
156.50 naira, unchanged from the previous sale on Feb. 8, it
said in an e-mailed statement.  The central bank would like to keep the exchange rate stable
after lowering its band against the dollar last year, Governor
Lamido Sanusi said Jan. 31. The regulator kept its  benchmark
interest rate  unchanged at a record high for a second
consecutive meeting on Jan. 31, to curb inflation after the
government partially removed fuel subsidies, boosting gasoline
costs.  There may be increased demand for the dollar this week as
there was only one auction last week because of a public
holiday, Cowry Asset Management analysts said. The central bank
will hold the second of its twice-weekly foreign currency
auction on Feb. 15.  Ghana ’s cedi was unchanged at 1.7084 per dollar as of 3.30
pm in Accra, the nation’s capital, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Brand at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net  