-- Navy Discloses $811 Million Overrun on Gerald Ford Carrier
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-02-13T17:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/navy-discloses-811-million-overrun-on-gerald-ford-carrier.html
The cost of the  aircraft carrier 
Gerald R. Ford has increased by $811 million, or about 16
percent, over its $5.16 billion target price, the Navy said.  The overrun, up from the $650 million acknowledged in
April, was disclosed today in a Navy document highlighting the
service’s share of the Defense Department’s fiscal 2013 plan.
The Navy documents indicate the service estimates a worst-case
overrun of as much as $1.1 billion.  “To address fact-of-life cost increases as well as the
government’s share of the ship construction variance to date,
the Department added $811 million to the Gerald R. Ford
budget,” through 2017, according to the document.  The carrier is being built by  Huntington Ingalls Industries
Inc. (HII)  under a “cost-plus, incentive-fee” contract in which the
Navy pays for most of the overruns. Even so, the service’s
efforts to control costs are putting the company’s $579.2
million profit at risk, according to the Navy.  The Navy said last month that Huntington Ingalls of  Newport
News ,  Virginia , is being docked millions of dollars in profit
because of the cost overrun. It didn’t disclose the overrun
amount or Huntington’s share.  The company didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail today
seeking comment.  Huntington Ingalls is continuing “to see improvements in
our performance” on the carrier, Beci Brenton, a spokeswoman
for the company, said in an e-mail last month.  ‘Unique Challenges’  “Although this is a first-in-class ship with the unique
challenges that come with that, we anticipate we will further
increase efficiencies and continue to retire risk associated in
the four years that remain until delivery,” Brenton said.  The Navy said it has begun periodically withholding some of
the shipbuilder’s $579 million profit that is set out in the
contract as the service adds money to cover the increasing costs
on its design and construction contract.  The completed initial vessel, the first of three in the
$40.2 billion program, is projected to cost at least $11.5
billion.  The $11.5 billion includes $2.9 billion in detailed design
and $8.6 billion for construction and government-furnished
equipment, such as its nuclear reactor. An additional $3.7
billion is for research that applies to all three vessels in the
class, the Navy said.  The  Congressional Budget Office  wrote in a June report that
cost growth typically occurs when a ship is more than half-
finished. The Ford design contract is about 42 percent complete.  Huntington, which had 2010  sales  of $6.7 billion, became a
separate company in March when  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  spun off
its shipbuilding unit.  The Navy budget released today indicates it plans to
provide $608 million in fiscal 2013 for CVN-79, the second
carrier, to initiate the design and construction contract
similar to Huntington’s contract for the Ford.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  