-- Israel Raises State of Alert After Attacks on Diplomats in India, Georgia
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-02-14T15:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/netanyahu-blames-iran-backed-terrorism-for-india-georgia-car-bomb-attacks.html
Israeli police elevated alerts
across the country following assaults against diplomats in  India 
and Georgia, while Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said a botched
grenade attack in Thailand bolstered the case for blaming Iran.  Police will emphasize heightened “security awareness” in
public places throughout  Israel , focusing on foreign embassies,
tourist sites and airports, police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld 
said today in a phone interview. Foreign Ministry spokesman Paul
Hirschson declined to comment on security at embassies abroad.  Iran denied any connection to the bombing of an embassy
vehicle in New Delhi that injured an Israeli diplomat’s wife
yesterday and a bomb planted under an Israeli diplomatic car in
the Georgian capital of Tbilisi that was discovered before it
could be detonated. Barak, visiting  Singapore , pointed to the
injuring of an Iranian by his own grenade in Thailand today,
saying that terrorism linked to  Iran  is spreading.  “The attempted terrorist attack in Bangkok proves once
again that Iran and its proxies continue to perpetrate terror,”
Barak said in comments e-mailed by his office. He said Iran and
the Lebanese Hezbollah organization it backs are “unrelenting
terror elements endangering the stability of the region and
endangering the stability of the world.”  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told members of
parliament yesterday that Israel will “act methodically”
against Iranian-backed terrorism.  Nuclear Scientists  The incidents today and yesterday follow a series of deadly
attacks on Iranian nuclear scientists, which the government
blamed on Israel. They also come during the week marking the
fourth anniversary of the 2008 car-bomb death of Hezbollah
security chief Imad Mughniyeh, which the group has blamed on
Israel. Hezbollah, a Shiite political party, is considered a
terrorist organization by Israel and the U.S.  In Tehran, Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said allegations against his country are part of an
Israeli “propaganda war,” Press TV reported.  “We categorically reject the accusations made by the
Zionist regime,” Mehmanparast said, according to a report
published on the state-run news channel’s website today. His
comments were made before news about the attack in  Thailand  was
reported.  Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 index  fell for a second day this
week, retreating 0.6 percent to 1,112.64.  Attacks Condemned  Indian and Georgian authorities said they were trying to
determine who was behind the attacks, which were condemned by
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and the European Union’s
foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton.  Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra said it was too
early to assume terrorists were to blame for today’s blasts and
urged the public not to panic.  The Iranian man was injured by his own grenade as he and
two other sought to escape arrest following an explosion at
their rented Bangkok home, according to government spokeswoman
Thitima Chaisang. Four others were hurt in the incident.  Police found C-4 explosives in the house the three men were
renting, TNN television network reported, without saying where
it got the information.  Thai police last month charged a Swedish-Lebanese man they
said was linked to Hezbollah with possessing illegal substances
after detaining him in connection with a plan to attack sites
frequented by Americans and Israelis.  The bomb in  New Delhi  exploded about 500 meters (1,640
feet) from Israel’s embassy, injuring the wife of an Israeli
diplomat and her Indian driver, Indian Foreign Ministry
spokesman Syed Akbaruddin said.  The attack was carried out by somebody who had been “well
trained,” India’s Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told
reporters today. The government is not “pointing the finger”
at any group as its investigation is continuing, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  