-- N.J. Senate Passes Gay Marriage; Christie Threatens Veto
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-02-13T20:50:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/new-jersey-senate-approves-gay-marriage-bill-as-christie-veto-threat-looms.html
The  New Jersey (STONJ1)  Senate passed a bill
that would allow gay and lesbian couples to marry, in the face
of Republican Governor  Chris Christie ’s promise to veto it.  The Senate voted 24-16 in favor of the measure, three votes
more than needed. It heads to the Assembly, where Reed Gusciora,
a sponsor, said he expects passage on Feb. 16. Democrats, who
control both houses of the Legislature, have made gay marriage a
priority, two years after they failed to pass a similar bill
supported by then-Governor  Jon Corzine .  Christie, 49, opposes gay marriage and wants voters to
decide the issue in a referendum. New Jersey is among at least
six U.S. states dealing with the issue this year. Washington
Governor Christine Gregoire signed a bill today making her state
the seventh to allow same-sex couples to wed. Lawmakers in
Maryland and  Illinois  are debating the unions as  North Carolina 
and  Minnesota  have proposed initiatives to ban them.  “When marriage equality was enacted in  New York  and more
recently in Washington state, it could not have done so without
the support of courageous Republicans who bucked their party
because they knew they had to do the right thing,” Senate
President  Stephen Sweeney  said during debate. “I know many of
you deep down know this is absolutely the right thing to do.”  Fifty-four percent of New Jersey voters support gay
marriage and 35 percent don’t, according to a Rutgers-Eagleton
 poll  released today. When lawmakers weighed the issue in 2009,
46 percent were in favor and 40 percent weren’t.  Civil Rights  Voters nationwide have rejected gay marriage in all 31
referendums on the issue. Democrats in  New Jersey  say the right
to marry is a civil freedom that shouldn’t be subject to a
popular vote. Sweeney, a West Deptford Democrat, said “there’s
not a chance in hell” he’d post a referendum bill.  Corzine, a one-term Democrat, signed a measure in 2006 to
allow civil unions after the state  Supreme Court  ordered
lawmakers to extend marital rights to gay couples. The law is
being challenged in state court by  Lambda Legal , a national gay-
rights advocacy group, which argues that it doesn’t provide the
same benefits and protections as marriage.  Hospitals, insurance companies and out-of-state businesses
often deny spousal rights to gay couples, supporters of the so-
called marriage equality bill said.  New Jersey’s civil-unions law is “government sanctioned
and justified homophobia,” Senator Loretta Weinberg, a Teaneck
Democrat and a sponsor of the marriage bill, said during debate.
“The marriage of two committed and consenting people in love,
whether they’re gay or straight, should make absolutely no
difference to anyone else in the world.”  ‘Pandora’s Box’  Senator Gerald Cardinale, a Cresskill Republican, said the
bill seeks to change “thousands of years of human history.”  “The very definition of the term is that it involves at
least one male and at least one female,” Cardinale said of
marriage. “This bill opens a Pandora’s box. The unintended
consequences may be more than we can imagine.”  Gusciora, a gay Democrat from Trenton, said he expects the
measure to pass the Assembly with most Democrats and a “good
showing” of Republicans supporting it.  Two years ago, a gay-marriage bill never made it to the
Assembly floor. It was defeated 20-14 in the Senate with three
abstaining, including Sweeney, who later said he made a mistake
in not voting. It needed 21 votes for approval.  Override Votes  Two Republican senators, Diane Allen of Burlington and
Jennifer Beck of  Red Bank , voted for the bill today, while two
Democrats, Ronald Rice of  Newark  and Jeff Van Drew of  Cape May ,
voted no. Van Drew said his vote came down to a personal belief
in the definition of marriage as between a man and a woman.  “I respect the opinions and views of all my colleagues,
but it is my opinion that our republic was established to
guarantee liberty to all our people,” Beck said during debate.
“It’s our role as elected representatives to protect all of the
people who live in our state.”  Democrats control the Senate, 24-16, and the Assembly,
48-32, and would need a two-thirds majority, or 27 members in
the Senate and 54 in the Assembly, to override vetoes.  Senator Ray Lesniak, an Elizabeth Democrat and a sponsor of
the gay-marriage bill, said his party can get the override if
Christie lets Republicans vote their consciences, not politics.  Steven Goldstein, chairman of Garden State Equality, which
has advocated for gay marriage, said Senate passage is a
victory, even with a promised veto. The number of lawmakers
voting for gay marriage surged to 24 from 14 two years ago, and
supporters now have the entire two-year legislative session to
win the three votes needed to override a veto, he said.  “An override now becomes a very real possibility,”
Goldstein said in an interview. “To have a 70 percent increase
in support doesn’t show you the world is changing -- it’s
already changed. Wake up and smell the equality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  