-- Nexans Pauses for Integration After $275 Million AmerCable Deal
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-02-13T11:54:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/nexans-pauses-for-integration-after-275-million-amercable-deal.html
Nexans SA (NEX) , the cable and wire maker
that agreed today to buy AmerCable Holdings Inc., will probably
take a breather to integrate acquisitions rather than make more
purchases this year, the French company’s chief executive said.  Nexans plans to complete the $275 million acquisition of
AmerCable this month to become the leader in cables used by the
oil and gas industry. It aims to finish acquiring 75 percent of
 China ’s Shandong Yanggu Cables Group’s power-cable business in
the third quarter, CEO  Frederic Vincent  said in an interview
today. And it’s building an extra-high voltage plant in the U.S.
and an assembly line for rail-car harnesses in Morocco, he said.  “We have to consolidate and integrate all that,” said
Vincent, who became CEO of the Paris-based company in 2009.
“Management can’t multiply itself indefinitely.”  Nexans, which was leapfrogged as the world’s largest cable
maker by  Italy ’s  Prysmian SpA (PRY)  last year, has said it wants to
expand in energy infrastructure in emerging markets, and
specialty cables for rolling stock, automation and oil and gas
in mature economies as well as in China. The market for cables
used by the oil and gas industry may grow by 5 percent to 10
percent a year, Vincent said.  “The growing shift in  North America  towards unconventional
oil and gas development is set to increase demand for
AmerCable’s products and services,” Vincent said in a
statement. “AmerCable’s presence in mining and oil and gas will
double the size of Nexans’ activities in those segments.”  AmerCable, based in El Dorado,  Arkansas , had earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
representing 13.3 percent of revenue at constant copper prices
last year, and that margin “will evolve” between 12 percent
and 15 percent, Vincent said. Nexans said it’s paying about
9.5 times adjusted Ebitda for AmerCable, which is owned by
Houston-based Quintana Energy Partners.  AmerCable had revenue of about $270 million in 2011, up
more than 30 percent from a year earlier, Nexans said. The cash
purchase will boost Nexans’ Ebitda margin and earnings per share
from the first year, the French company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 