-- Norilsk Says Nickel, Palladium Prices Rising on Investor Demand
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-02-13T09:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/norilsk-says-nickel-palladium-prices-rising-on-investor-demand.html
OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (GMKN) , the world’s
largest producer of nickel and palladium, sees metals prices
rising this quarter as investment demand rebounds, according to
Anton Berlin, head of marketing.  Norilsk Nickel  has booked sales for several weeks ahead,
Berlin said in an interview in Moscow. “Our order book was as
long as half-a-year when nickel prices peaked in 2007 and as
short as one week in the 2008 crisis,” he said. “Now it’s
somewhere in the middle.”  Customers are buying on short-term contracts rather than
long-term, reflecting uncertainty in their own sales in the
future, Berlin said. The nickel market is balanced this year,
and price movements will largely depend upon fluctuations in
investors’ positions, rather than changes in industrial demand,
according to Berlin.  Norilsk plans to increase nickel production at mines in
Africa and  Australia  this year after prices recovered from a
slump to as low as $9,050 a ton in 2008. The metal used in
stainless steel has gained more than 12 percent so far this
year, trading at $21,010 today on the London Metal Exchange. The
Russian company said Jan. 30 it may boost total nickel output as
much as 3.4 percent this year, after forecasting 2012 capital
spending of $3 billion.  Palladium sales by the Russian government won’t lower
prices, Berlin said. The state may sell as much as 4.5 metric
tons of palladium a year in 2012 and 2013, RBC Daily reported
Oct. 14. This is less than 2 percent of global supply, which
isn’t sufficient to affect the market, he said.  A 19 percent decline in Russian nickel exports last year
while production levels remained little changed is most likely a
“glitch” in official statistics, Berlin said. The country has
no significant stockpiles of the metal set aside for future
sales, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  