-- Obama Futures Gaining With S&P 500 on Best Start in 21 Years
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-02-13T14:37:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/obama-futures-rallying-in-correlation-with-s-p-500-best-start-in-21-years.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index’s
biggest rally to start a year since 1991 is coinciding with a 15
percent increase in President Barack Obama’s re-election odds,
showing growing investor confidence in the  U.S. economy .  The benchmark gauge for American shares has climbed as much
as 7.5 percent in 2012, the most in 21 years, as unemployment
fell and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke vowed to keep
 interest rates  near zero through 2014, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of a bet paying $10 should Obama
win another term rose to $6 on Feb. 10 from $5.20 on Jan. 1 and
below even money in November at Dublin-based bookmaker Intrade.  “A better economy clearly improves the president’s re-
election chances,”  David Kelly , who helps oversee $394 billion
as chief market strategist for JPMorgan Funds in New York, said
in a Feb. 8 interview. “The markets are pretty good at figuring
this out. If you look at the economy and you look at the string
of data you can pretty much figure out what the odds are.”  Prospects for an improving American economy have added
almost $3 trillion to equity prices since October and helped
spur a 14-percentage-point swing in the odds of re-election.
While Bernanke warned on Feb. 7 of persistent dangers to the
economy, Laurence D. Fink, chief executive officer of BlackRock
Inc., the world’s largest money manager, said last week
investors should have 100 percent of their holdings in equities
because they offer higher returns than bonds.  Best Start Since 1991  The S&P 500  slipped  0.2 percent last week to 1,342.64,
trimming its gain for the year to 6.8 percent, still the best
start since the index surged 8.8 percent in the first six weeks
of 1991. The index advanced 0.6 percent to 1,351.26 at 9:34 a.m.
in New York today.  Netflix Inc., the Los Gatos, California-based movie rental
service, has  climbed  79 percent in 2012, Hoffman Estates,
Illinois-based Sears Holdings Corp. rallied 50 percent and  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina , rose 45 percent.  Companies with  earnings  least-tied to the economy, last
year’s market leaders, are trailing now. Utilities have
retreated 3.5 percent  since the start of 2012 , the biggest
decline in the index, while phone companies lost 2.8 percent and
houseware makers are down 0.1 percent. Banks and brokers,
technology companies and commodity producers have rallied 11
percent, on average, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Greek Budget  Stocks fell for the first time this year last week as
concern  Greece  would reject budget reductions overshadowed data
showing the U.S. economy is recovering. Fewer Americans than
estimated sought jobless benefits and  consumer confidence  rose
to the highest level in a year, data compiled by the Labor
Department and Bloomberg showed on Feb. 9.  Obama’s re-election prospects have tracked the stock market
for more than a year after  Europe ’s debt crisis threatened the
global recovery  in April  and U.S. unemployment fell  below 9
percent  in October. His odds peaked in May, three days after the
 S&P 500  reached a 35-month high of 1,363.61, and bottomed a week
before the index tumbled to 1,099.23 on Oct. 3, the data show.  Intrade bets proved prescient in 2008 when futures put
Obama’s odds above 50 percent on all but eight days in the five
months before the Nov. 4 election. John McCain averaged about a
33 percent chance he would win during the same period, Intrade
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The week that traders bet
McCain had a better chance of winning was when Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy in September 2008.  Romney, Republicans  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and other
opponents have cast Obama as an ineffective steward of the
economy and his policies, such as the 2009 stimulus plan, as
failures. The gains may make it harder for Republicans,
traditionally the party aligned with American business because
of their appeals for smaller government, said  Julian Zelizer , a
political historian at Princeton University.  “For a Republican, good news on the stock market is not
necessarily good news for them,” Zelizer said in a Feb. 9 phone
interview. “They don’t want to be begrudging about it or
complaining about good stock prices. But that said, they’re in a
bind. Their major case in this election really depends on a bad
economy, so any measure that that’s not true, like the market,
undercuts the claim.”  The price of equities means less to voters than how much
they make and what it costs to buy food, Kristen Kukowski, a
spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee in  Washington ,
D.C., said in an interview on Feb. 9.  Economic Confidence  “What is still lagging and going to be a problem for this
president is economic confidence,” she said. “I don’t think
that people are paying attention to the stock market every
day.”  R.C. Hammond, a spokesman for  Newt Gingrich , said: “Last
time I checked, the 16 million unemployed were not worried about
their stock portfolios.”  Bets Democrats would keep the White House were never
cheaper than on Sept. 30 after $3.1 trillion had been  wiped  from
equity prices in five months. The decline, which pushed U.S.
shares within less than a percentage point of a  bear market ,
came as S&P stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating and
Obama’s debate with Congress over the debt ceiling threatened a
government default.  Odds of re-election slid from 56.1 percent to even money as
the S&P 500 dropped 11 percent in three days starting Aug. 4,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The week was one of the most
 volatile  in the history of the American stock market, with the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  alternating between daily gains and
losses of more than 400 points for four straight days.  Nixon’s Presidency  Equity valuations have been stuck below the historical
average for the longest periods since Richard Nixon’s
presidency, even after the S&P 500 rallied about 20 percent
since last year’s low in October. More than $469 billion has
been pulled from U.S. equity mutual funds over five years and
 New York Stock Exchange volume  slipped to the lowest since 1999
last month.  The index’s  price-earnings ratio , a measure of how much
investors will pay for U.S. corporate profits, has fallen to
13.9 times reported income, down from 24.1 at the end of 2009.
The ratio slipped as low as 10.2 at the end of the 17-month bear
market in 2009, when the S&P 500 declined as much as 57 percent.  The S&P 500 has gained 9.8 percent annually including
dividends since 1926, compared with 5.7 percent for  U.S.
Treasury bonds , according to Ibbotson Associates, a research
unit of Chicago-based Morningstar Inc.  Missed Opportunities  “Too many people are underweight equities, and one of the
things I’m trying to do is to get people to think about the
opportunities they’re missing, with valuations at these
levels,” Fink said in Beijing last week. BlackRock, based in
 New York , manages $3.5 trillion in assets, including $1.25
trillion in fixed-income and $1.56 trillion in stocks.  Of the 8.8 million jobs lost in the U.S. due to the
recession, about 3.2 million have been recovered, figures from
the Labor Department show. Bernanke cited Labor Department data
released Feb. 3 showing the share of working-age people in the
labor force had declined to the lowest level in 29 years.  Since World War II, only one U.S. president has been re-
elected with a jobless rate above 6 percent:  Ronald Reagan  won a
second term with the rate on Election Day 1984 at 7.4 percent, a
drop of more than three percentage points in the previous 23
months.  “Yes, the better economy works to Obama’s favor, but the
economy is not exactly on fire,” said Howard Ward, who helps
oversee $35 billion at Gamco Investors Inc. in Rye, New York.
“Of course, a lot can happen between now and November,” he
added. “It is too early to put much weight in this.”  Odds Bottomed  Since Obama’s odds bottomed, the U.S. unemployment rate has
decreased from 9 percent to 8.3 percent as 715,000 nonfarm jobs
were added to the economy. Forecasts for growth in gross
domestic product climbed to 2.2 percent from 2 percent while an
 exchange-traded fund tracking retailers  advanced 24 percent. His
odds reached 60.7 percent on Feb. 9, the highest since June.  More than a year after Republicans from House Speaker John Boehner of  Ohio  to presidential candidate Ron Paul of  Texas 
warned that the Fed’s second round of asset purchases risked a
sharp acceleration in prices, the surge has failed to
materialize. The personal-consumption-expenditures price index
rose 2.4 percent for the 12 months ending in December, near the
2 percent top of the Fed’s preferred range.  “A reason you find a strong correlation with stocks is
because the equity markets are a forward-looking indicator,”
said Justin Wolfers, a professor of business and public policy
for the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
“We’re seeing increasingly good news on the state of the
economy. That’s being reflected in stocks and also being
reflected in an improvement in Obama’s position.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  