-- Obama’s Budget Misses an Opportunity to Tackle Tax Reform: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-13T23:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/obama-s-budget-misses-an-opportunity-to-tackle-tax-reform-view.html
Do as I say, not as I do. That was
the unwelcome message in President Barack Obama’s federal budget
for 2013. The president calls on Congress to begin work on
corporate  tax reform , including simplifying and lowering the
overall corporate rate. Yet his fiscal blueprint doesn’t even
hint at how he would achieve that. Instead, he would add new
layers of tax complexity.  The $3.8 trillion budget, released yesterday, is stuffed
with dozens of tax initiatives, including a tax on millionaires,
a $61 billion tax on banks, and various changes that punish or
reward specific industries and behaviors. In the unlikely event
that congressional Republicans play along, some of the
president’s initiatives would do the U.S. little good in the
short run, and are unlikely to prepare it for the challenges
ahead.  This is a wasted opportunity, even considering that the
final budget of the president’s term is largely a political
document. The U.S. should be doing more to streamline an already
cluttered  tax code  -- a chief request of business leaders. It
would certainly help, too, if voters understood how Obama would
overhaul corporate taxes should he be re-elected.  The U.S. has one of the highest effective corporate tax
 rates  in the world, topping out at 35 percent. That rate puts
U.S. companies at a competitive disadvantage to trading
partners, whose effective taxes are, on average, lower than 30
percent. A higher  corporate  tax rate makes it cheaper to do
business overseas, encouraging companies to send jobs abroad.
What’s more, higher taxes are largely passed on to U.S. workers
and consumers in smaller paychecks and higher prices.  The administration claims to understand this. Yet its
latest budget, which projects a $901 billion deficit in fiscal
2013, perpetuates the clumsy way the U.S. has tried, for
decades, to reduce the overall  tax rate  with ever more credits
and deductions. The budget encourages manufacturers, for
example, to invest in the U.S. by proposing new deductions for
companies that stay onshore and new credits for those investing
in hard-hit communities. It would also impose a minimum tax on
overseas earnings and make it harder for companies to defer
taxes on overseas profits. In total, Obama would spend more than
$120 billion over the next decade on tax breaks for U.S.
manufacturing.  The president would partially pay for this by ending a tax
deduction on domestic oil and gas production, saving almost $12
billion over a decade. That’s a good thing; such companies are
highly profitable and able to attract capital on their own. The
president would apply those funds toward the more generous tax
deduction for manufacturers, and would even double the deduction
to 18 percent for high-tech manufacturers. That could raise all
sorts of questions about what qualifies as high-tech: Would
companies that make iPad accessories, or the packaging they come
in, make the cut?  The bigger problem is that tax credits rarely drive
corporate behavior, especially decisions as important as a
facility’s location. Economists say that other factors,
including wages, the availability of skilled labor and proximity
to customers, carry more weight and that the Obama tax changes
would probably be marginal, at best.  Manufacturing is an important driver of growth, but it’s no
secret the industry is doing far more with fewer workers.
 Productivity (PRODMANH)  has soared even as  employment  has fallen, with much
of the work becoming automated. The sector already benefits from
dozens of tax subsidies. Manufacturers in 2008 claimed $12.2
billion, or 66 percent, of the same domestic production tax
break that benefited oil and gas companies, according to an
 analysis  by Bloomberg Government.  A better use of limited resources would be to target money
to areas that can benefit all U.S. businesses, such as improving
labor-force skills. A  study  by the National Science Board found
high-tech manufacturing jobs in the U.S. declined by 687,000
between 2000 and 2010. Many of the jobs went overseas, including
to China, and not simply because of lower wages.  China  now
outpaces the U.S. in awarding doctoral degrees and nearly
doubled its number of engineering degrees over the past decade.
More than 90 percent of respondents in a Harvard Business School
survey said the U.S. is either falling behind or just keeping
pace in the availability of skilled labor.  More money for training, education, and research and
development would be a better way to prepare the U.S. for its
long-term challenges. Yesterday’s budget proposes a good start
with an $8 billion community college program to train 2 million
workers. Congress would be wise to approve this and other
training initiatives.  The tax proposals in the White House’s budget seem designed
more for political advantage than to put forward the best
policy. White House officials hint that a corporate tax overhaul
may come later this year -- something they’ve predicted in the
past, only to back away. Before asking voters to give him a
second term, Obama needs to show how he would fix a fractured
system.  Tax reform would be a high hurdle in an election year,
particularly with  Washington  so paralyzed by partisanship.
Still, in laying out its priorities, the administration should
have aimed higher, instead of making the tax code murkier than
it already is.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 