-- Business Mailers Rankled by Obama Call to End Saturday Delivery
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-02-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/obama-urges-end-to-u-s-postal-service-saturday-mail-delivery.html
President  Barack Obama ’s call for
the U.S.  Postal Service  to end Saturday mail delivery and raise
rates will drive away customers while not addressing needed cost
reductions, some business users and U.S. lawmakers said.  Obama, as part of his spending plan released yesterday,
proposed to let the Postal Service reduce delivery from six to
five days a week by January 2013 and to return $10.9 billion it
overpaid into a federal retirement account. The proposal was
made to and not acted upon by Congress’s deficit-reducing
supercommittee last year.  “Eliminating Saturday delivery should be the last resort,
not the first choice,”  Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine
Republican, said through a spokeswoman. “It would force
businesses ranging from newspapers to home-delivery of medicine
to explore non-postal delivery options. Once these customers
leave the mail system, they won’t be coming back, and the Postal
Service’s revenues would suffer another blow.”  A bill with sponsors including Collins and Tom Carper, a
Delaware Democrat, would prevent cutting a day of mail delivery
for at least two years. Obama’s proposal is in a bill sponsored
by  Darrell Issa , a California Republican. Issa also wants to
require a financial-control board if the service defaults on
obligations to the U.S. government and create a commission to
speed up post office closings.  Both bills have been passed by committees.  Billions in Losses  The Postal Service has said ending a day of delivery each
week would save $3.1 billion annually. The service has said it
expects to lose $14.1 billion in the year ending Sept. 30, and
according to Obama’s budget, it may lose $13.6 billion in its
2013 fiscal year.  Ending Saturday delivery would harm customers mailing
pharmaceuticals and time-sensitive newspapers and magazines,
said Gene Del Polito, president of the Association for Postal
Commerce. The Alexandria, Virginia-based group’s members include
 Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS) ,  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  and Conde Nast
Publications Ltd.  “Businesses abhor uncertainty,” Del Polito said in a
telephone interview. “So they will do what they can to try to
create for themselves a predictable cocoon in which to operate.
And in this case the predictable cocoon does not include mail.
And that exacerbates Congress’s challenges.”  Rate Increases  Rate increases will also push business customers away, said
 Art Sackler , coordinator for the Coalition for a 21st Century
Postal Service, whose members include  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and Bank of
America Corp.  “Raising postal rates won’t save the Postal Service; it
will only hasten its demise,” Sackler said in an e-mail.
“Higher rates will force companies away from using the mail,
and push them into finding other ways to reach their
customers.”  The Postal Service has proposed each of the changes Obama
advanced as well as reducing its workforce by firing as many as
220,000 employees and closing post offices and mail-processing
plants.  Obama’s budget didn’t address the facility closings or job
cuts.  “It’s a political hot potato for them,” Del Polito said.
“They don’t want to tick off a key Democratic constituency
going into a national election.”  $25 Billion  The Postal Service reported a $3.3 billion loss in the
quarter ended Dec. 31, which is typically its strongest because
of holiday-season mailing of packages and cards.  Most of the quarterly loss came from a U.S. law requiring
the service to pay in advance for future retirees’ health-
benefits costs. Obama proposed changing that payment schedule to
account for fewer employees.  The package of postal changes would provide $25 billion of
cash over the next two years and would result in $25 billion of
savings over 11 years, Obama said in the budget plan.  The president’s proposal includes some provisions of the
Senate proposal, Carper said in a statement. “We can’t let the
Postal Service fail on our watch,” he said.  Issa, while praising the proposal to end Saturday delivery,
said Obama’s package won’t make the service solvent. “Infusing
the agency with cash and hiking postage rates without requiring
USPS to reduce costs and realign itself to meet America’s
changing use of mail is just buying a very small amount of time
with a very big check,” he said in a statement through his
spokesman, Ali Ahmad.  The House bill is H.R. 2309. The Senate bill is S. 1789.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  