-- Obama Sends $3.8 Trillion Election-Year Budget to Congress
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-02-13T21:31:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/obama-sends-3-8-trillion-budget-to-congress-with-stimulus-tax-increases.html
President  Barack Obama  sent Congress
a $3.8 trillion budget plan today with stimulus spending and tax
increases for the wealthiest Americans, spelling out election-
year priorities that drew immediate Republican opposition.  Obama is proposing more money for  jobs , highways and
bridges, schools, student aid and manufacturing research as well
as higher taxes for corporations, banks and oil, natural gas and
coal companies, even as the nation’s  debt  grows faster than the
administration predicted in September.  The spending measures will ensure the recovery is sustained
and the tax increase will help draw down the deficit, Obama said
today at Northern Virginia Community College in suburban
Washington.  “We can cut back on the things that we don’t need, but we
also have to make sure that everyone is paying their fair share
for the things that we do need,” Obama said.  Obama’s fourth budget includes measures that are similar to
his September jobs and  deficit -reduction proposal that
Republicans in Congress largely blocked or rejected as
unworkable or unnecessary. The budget lays out Obama’s
priorities for the economy as Republicans campaigning for
president question the direction of the federal government.  $1.33 Trillion Deficit  The budget shows Obama will fail to keep his 2009 pledge of
cutting the deficit in half by the end of his first term. The
forecast shows a fiscal 2012 deficit of $1.33 trillion, or 8.5
percent of the economy, marking the fourth straight year the
shortfall will exceed the trillion-dollar mark. That’s up from
the administration’s estimate in September of $956 billion.  Next year, the deficit is projected at $901 billion, or 5.5
percent of the economy, and up from the $648 billion that
Obama’s economists predicted five months ago. The
administration’s forecasts for 2014-2021 are all higher than the
outlook issued five months ago.  Public debt is taking a bigger bite out of the economy,
rising to $18.7 trillion by 2021, or almost 77 percent of the
economy, compared with $17.1 trillion, or 70 percent of the
economy expected in September.  The deficit forecasts may have little validity beyond this
year, partly because they assume enactment of Obama’s tax
increase proposals in the face of opposition from Republicans,
who control the House and have enough votes in the Senate to
block legislation.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, called
Obama’s budget plan “a gloomy reflection of his failed
policies” that is “a collection of rehashes, gimmicks, and tax
increases that will make our economy worse.”  ‘Decline of America’  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin Republican and chairman of the House
Budget Committee, said the president’s budget was
“irresponsible” and a “recipe for a debt crisis and the
decline of America.”  “His refusal to honestly confront our nation’s most
pressing challenges does real harm to the economic security of
millions of American families,” Ryan, who is working on a
Republican alternative, said.  Obama’s deficit projections depend on allowing expiration
of Bush-era tax cuts for couples earning $250,000 or more a
year, limiting the value of itemized deductions to 28 percent
for those families, and imposing a minimum tax for individuals
with annual incomes of at least $1 million. It would also raise
taxes on dividends received by the wealthy to 39.6 percent from
the current 15 percent.  Delayed Decisions  Those proposals, along with an across-the-board $1.2
trillion cut in spending and possible debt-ceiling increase,
probably won’t be acted on before the Nov. 6 elections, and
decisions either way may affect the deficit by hundreds of
billions of dollars.  The minimum tax on $1 million-earners, named for
billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , who originated the idea
last year, would replace the Alternative Minimum Tax, “which
now burdens middle-class Americans rather than stopping the
richest Americans from paying too little as was originally
intended,” according to the budget document. The plan doesn’t
give a detailed proposal for the tax beyond setting a 30 percent
threshold for the minimum rate.  Obama also calls for revamping the  tax code  to “cut and
simplify tax breaks that are now inefficient, unfair, or both,”
also without a specific proposal for how the new tax would be
structured. The changes should cut the deficit by $1.5 trillion
over the next decade, according to the budget plan.  Corporate Taxes  The administration proposes an overhaul of the  corporate
tax  system that would eliminate tax benefits to lower the rate
from the current maximum of 35 percent. The budget didn’t give
specifics. The administration will provide “more detail” by
the end of the month,  Gene Sperling , the head of Obama’s
National Economic Council, said at a briefing today.  The budget reiterates Obama’s proposal to tax so-called
carried-interest income earned by hedge fund managers and
private equity partners at ordinary income rates, rather than at
the 15 percent capital gains rate, raising $13 billion over a
decade.  Obama’s plan would impose $156 billion in new or expanded
government fees including higher  Medicare (FFSOMED)  premiums for wealthier
beneficiaries beginning in 2017. It would also increase the
terrorism-security fee charged to airline passengers as well as
the premiums paid by companies for federal pension insurance,
among other changes.  Big financial institutions would face $61 billion over 10
years in a “Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee” to help pay
for the bank bailout program and a home-mortgage refinance
initiative.  Credits and Subsidies  Obama would end credits and deductions that help subsidize
the oil and natural gas industries, for a savings of $41 billion
over a decade. Depreciation rules on corporate purchases of
aircraft would be abolished, for a savings of $2 billion over 10
years.  Spending cuts over a decade include $278 billion in  farm
subsidies , federal workers’ retirement plans and the Pension
Benefit Guarantee Corp., which insures company pensions.  The budget proposes to cut payments to  Medicare (USBOMDCR)  providers
by $268 billion over 10 years. It would require pharmaceutical
companies to provide bigger rebates on drugs sold through
Medicare, reduce federal reimbursements for patients’ bad debts
and cut payments to teaching hospitals, among other changes.  It would also cut over the same period $51 billion out of
 Medicaid (USBOMDCA) , the joint federal-state health care program for the
poor, in part by shifting more of the program’s costs to the
states.  The budget anticipates war costs will fall next year by
about one-quarter to $97 billion. It would be the first time
since 2004 that annual costs have dipped below $100 billion.  Agency Cuts  Most federal agencies would see their budgets cut or
essentially frozen. The  Pentagon (USBODEFN)  would receive $525 billion,
about $5 billion less than last year. Funding for the F-35 Joint
Strike Fighter, the military’s costliest weapons program, would
fall by $1.6 billion.  The Environment Protection Agency would shrink by 2 percent
to $8.3 billion. The Department of Housing and Urban Development
would fall by 7.5 percent. Agriculture would take a 3 percent
cut.  One of the biggest winners would be the Department of
Education, which would see a 3.5 percent increase to $69.8
billion. The administration’s “Race to the Top” program, which
awards competitive grants to states, would receive a 55 percent
increase. Funding for college work-study programs would increase
by 15 percent.  The Department of  Veterans Affairs  would see a 4 percent
increase, to $61 billion, in part because of growing medical-
care costs.  Jobs Measures  Obama is seeking $350 billion in short-term jobs measures,
including additional infrastructure spending, extending
 unemployment benefits  and increasing aid to cash-strapped state
governments. He would also extend an expiring  payroll tax  break
for the rest of this year.  In other areas to boost the economy, the budget sets aside
almost $121 billion over a decade for expanding U.S.
manufacturing, including tax credits for clean-energy vehicles,
tax breaks for bringing jobs back from overseas and credits for
companies locating in hard-hit communities.  Small businesses would be in line for $25 billion in
various tax cuts, including ending capital gains taxes on small
business stockpiles. Expensing provisions scheduled to expire
Dec. 31 would be extended through calendar 2013, for a value of
$26 billion.  The White House said it’s supporting a six-year, $476
billion renewal of a highway bill that would add thousands of
 construction  jobs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  