-- Obama Seeks Consolidation of Jobs Programs in Labor Agency Cuts
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2012-02-13T16:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/obama-seeks-consolidation-of-jobs-programs-in-labor-agency-cuts.html
President  Barack Obama  has proposed
a consolidation of job-creation programs as part of his 2013
Labor Department budget, which would see a 4 percent reduction.  Spending for Labor Department discretionary programs would
drop to $12 billion from $12.5 billion in 2011, the last time
agencies had an enacted budget, according to Obama’s budget
released today. Spending would rise for worker-protection
programs.  The savings reflect elimination of overlapping job-training
programs and consolidation of regional offices. The budget
increases funding for agencies that protect worker wages,
benefits, health and safety and invests in detecting employer
misclassification of workers as independent contractors. Labor
unions back efforts to crack down on incorrect classification,
which lets companies avoid paying overtime and benefits.  The budget ends funding for a program called Women in
Apprenticeship in Non-Traditional Occupations. The Labor
Department said it can meet the goal of the program in other
ways. It also ends funding for the Veterans Workforce Investment
Program.  The budget proposes to change the federal Jobs Corp
program, which helps train low-income young people. The agency
will close some low-performing Jobs Corp offices. “The program
could be more effective and efficient,” the Labor Department
said in the budget proposal.  The budget includes an additional $5 million over the 2012
spending for the  Occupational Safety and Health Administration ’s
whistle-blower protection program. It also provides a $6 million
increase for the Wage and House division of the Labor Department
for intensified enforcement of the  Fair Labor Standards Act  and
the Family and Medical Leave Act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in  Washington  at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  