-- Obama Budget Seeks Funding for Trade as China’s Xi Arrives
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-13T20:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/obama-budget-seeks-funding-for-trade-unit-as-china-s-xi-arrives.html
President  Barack Obama  asked
Congress for $26 million and at least 50 people for a new U.S.
panel to investigate unfair trade practices by nations including
China, whose Vice President Xi Jinping arrives today for a U.S.
visit.  The 2013 budget proposal Obama submitted to Congress today
contains funds for an Interagency Trade Enforcement Center that
would monitor and enforce trade agreements and laws,  Gene Sperling , director of the National Economic Council, told
reporters. Obama announced his intention to create the panel,
which includes lawyers, researchers, analysts and agents
supported by the Commerce Department and U.S. Trade
Representative, in his Jan. 24 State of the Union speech.  “This is designed to significantly increase our capacity
to bring additional trade cases that will level the playing
field against countries around the world, including  China ,”
Sperling said.  Double Exports  Obama in his budget also is seeking an additional $13
million for Customs and Border Protection efforts to target
pirated goods, $10 million to post 16 Food and Drug
Administration employees in China and three U.S.-based analysts
to protect against unsafe imports, according to an
administration official, who asked not to be named before the
budget plan was announced.  The efforts may aid Obama’s attempt to boost economic
growth and  cut unemployment  by doubling exports to $3.14
trillion by 2015, from $1.57 trillion in 2009.  Obama is proposing a 3.4 percent increase in the Commerce
Department’s 2013 budget to $8 billion. The request includes an
additional $62 million for the  International Trade
Administration , which promotes trade, including $24 million in
spending for enforcement of trade laws, Rebecca Blank, the
acting deputy Commerce secretary, told reporters today in a
telephone briefing.  The U.S. Trade Representative’s office, which Blank said
will also help fund the new trade enforcement center, is seeking
a budget increase of 3.9 percent to $53 million, $2 million more
than its estimated 2012 level.  Focus on China  “There’s a widespread perception in  Washington  that the
Chinese are not always playing by the rules,” Matthew Goodman,
an Asia analyst at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington, said in an interview.  Though the panel will be empowered to investigate all
foreign trade, Obama cited  China (TBBLCHNA)  as a source of particular
concern in his January speech to Congress. That could become a
source of tension as Xi begins a five-day visit to the U.S.  Xi is in line to replace President  Hu Jintao  as general
secretary of China’s ruling Communist Party this year.  “Both sides have an interest in seeing this visit focus
more on relationship-building between the leadership of the two
countries rather than trying to resolve the longstanding
issues,” said Goodman, who served as Obama’s coordinator for
Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation until two months ago.  The  U.S. Senate  has voted to punish China for maintaining
an undervalued currency as Republican presidential candidates
have pledged to label China a currency manipulator.  WTO Complaints  Obama filed five World Trade Organization complaints
against China since taking office three years ago, compared with
the seven that  George W. Bush  filed from 2001, when China joined
the WTO, and the end of his term in 2009. The U.S. and China
have clashed over access to each others’ markets for products
including steel pipes, poultry, tires, movies and music.  China’s violations of WTO rules have contributed to more
than 400,000 lost jobs since 2000, according to a report
released last month by the Alliance for American Manufacturers,
a group that includes Pittsburgh-based  United States Steel Corp. (X)   “Too many American workers have had their jobs stolen from
them by foreign unfair, predatory and illegal trade practices,”
 Leo Gerard , president of the  United Steelworkers  of America,
said yesterday in a statement. Obama’s proposal “makes an
important investment in trade law,” he said.  Solar-Energy Complaints  U.S. industries say the government isn’t doing enough to
let companies compete with China.  SolarWorld AG (SWV) ’s U.S. unit says
the solar-energy industry is being harmed by China’s cash
grants, discounts on raw materials, preferential loans and tax
incentives. The U.S. is investigating the complaint.  Obama has also called on Congress to create a program to
provide credit to companies competing against foreign
counterparts that benefit from preferential credit from their
governments.  The trade enforcement center will probably take two years
to reach its full strength, according to the administration
official.  China’s economic growth is driving an increase in imports
from the U.S. China’s economy expanded 8.9 percent in the last
three months of 2011 from the year ago period. The  U.S. economy 
grew 1.6 percent during the same period.  U.S. goods  exports  to China rose 13 percent to $104 billion
last year from $91.9 billion a year earlier. That topped the 9.4
percent rise in  imports  from China, according to the U.S.
Commerce Department. That still left a trade deficit of $295
billion, $23 billion wider than a year earlier.  U.S. exports have been spurred by a stronger yuan. The
currency reached an 18-year high on Feb. 10 and advanced 0.1
percent last week to 6.2986 per dollar in  Shanghai , according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  “While  Xi Jinping  brings a change in leadership for China,
I am hopeful that this transition also bring changes in policy
for the U.S.-China economic relationship,” Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican who heads the House Ways and Means
Committee, said in an e-mail. “China has been both an
opportunity and an obstacle when it comes to our economy and
American jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  