-- Obama Requests Increase in U.S. Education Spending to Almost $70 Billion
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-02-13T17:55:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/obama-requests-increase-in-u-s-education-spending-to-almost-70-billion.html
President  Barack Obama  asked for
almost $70 billion in education spending, a 2.5 percent increase
over last year, while he cut several other agencies’ requests.  Obama’s 2013 proposal includes a three-year, $8 billion
plan to shore up career programs at community colleges that
would be co-administered by the Education and Labor departments.
The proposed budget would also keep  interest rates  on federal
Stafford loans for college students from doubling to 6.8
percent, according to White House documents released today.  Obama is asking to expand education programs as Republican
presidential candidates call to abolish or shrink the Education
Department. The budget request, which includes cuts in the
Defense, Agriculture and Justice departments, indicates that
education and job training remain high on the list of the
administration’s priorities.  “Education and lifelong learning will be critical for
anyone trying to compete for the jobs of the future,” Obama said
today in the budget documents. “That is why I will continue to
make education a national mission.”  Obama’s request will keep the maximum level of annual  Pell
Grants  for poor college students at $5,635 through the 2014-2015
academic year. Congressional Republicans had proposed cutting
the maximum grant by 15 percent last year.  The community college plan designates funds in the 2013
budget to establish training courses for skilled careers,
develop partnerships between the schools and employers, and help
state and local governments attract businesses, the Education
Department said.  Can’t Afford Upgrades  Community colleges lack funds for buildings and equipment
needed to teach specialized courses for highly skilled jobs,
said Karen Stout, president of  Montgomery County Community
College  in  Pennsylvania , which has campuses in Blue Bell and
Pottstown. The college’s budget was cut 10 percent last year,
and it hasn’t had new funds for building in four years, she
said.  While she would like to expand her college’s programs for
health-care workers and nuclear-engineering technicians, they
require equipment and specialized instructors she can’t
currently afford, Stout said.  “It sounds like this program matches up exactly with those
needs,” said Stout, who hadn’t seen all the details of Obama’s
plan. Obama unveiled the program today at  Northern Virginia
Community College , in Annandale, Virginia.  For-Profit Colleges  The Coalition for Educational Success, a for-profit college
trade group, said the Obama administration should “widen the
impact” of its career-training program by extending it to all
institutions of higher education.  “Career colleges have more students enrolled in high-
growth fields” than both public and private not-for-profit
schools, the Coalition said today in a  statement . For-profit
colleges also return taxpayer money in the form of millions of
dollars in taxes annually, the group said.  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) ’s University of Phoenix is the largest
for-profit college chain by enrollment.  The administration has also proposed measures to make
higher education more affordable. Colleges that meet or beat the
Education Department’s criteria will gain greater access to a
pool of  student loans  and campus-based grants.  “College administrators get to decide who gets the money,”
said  Mark Kantrowitz , publisher of FinAid.org, a college grant
and loan website. “It’s very popular with financial-aid
administrators because it lets them solve problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  