-- Obama Proposes $8 Billion to Enhance Worker Training at Community Colleges
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-02-13T11:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/obama-proposes-8-billion-to-enhance-worker-training-at-community-colleges.html
The Obama administration will
propose an $8 billion, three-year plan for shoring up career
programs at community colleges to help train 2 million people
for the workforce.  The plan, to be administered by the Education and Labor
departments, designates funds in the 2013 budget to establish
training courses for skilled careers, develop partnerships
between the schools and employers, and help state and local
governments attract businesses, according to an Education
Department statement.  Shrinking state budgets and increasing numbers of
unemployed people in the wake of the recession that began in
2007 have strained community colleges. The funding would help
colleges accommodate more students in need of job skills, said
David Baime of the  American Association  of Community Colleges in
 Washington .  “It looks pretty darned good at this point,” said Baime,
the association’s vice president for government relations, in a
telephone interview. “At this scale, these resources could have
a real benefit in helping colleges meet the demands of the
workforce and the expectations that people have of them.”  The  association  represents about 95 percent of the 1,200
community colleges in the U.S., Baime said. About 8 million
students take courses for credit at community colleges each
term, and an additional 5 million take non-credit courses,
according to the association.  Technical Skills  Many Americans looking for work lack the experience to fill
positions that require technical skills, such as in health care,
advanced manufacturing, energy, and  information technology , the
Education Department said. Employers in the science, technical,
and engineering fields frequently report that they need more
trained workers, said  Thomas Bailey , director of the Community
College Research Center in  New York .  “This is an area where investment of resources could be
useful,” Bailey said.  The program, called the Community College to Career Fund,
will pay to expand training and certification programs at
community colleges for growing employment fields. It will also
support internship programs for low-income community college
students, according to the statement.  States will be allowed to apply for funds to help
businesses increase workers’ skills. The plan also calls for
online courses in entrepreneurship for small-business owners to
be offered through community colleges.  Lack of Funds  Over the next three years, an additional $1.5 billion will
go to extending programs that help train and find employment for
workers who have been hurt by international trade agreements,
according to the statement.  Community colleges have been hurt by a lack of funds for
buildings and equipment needed to teach specialized courses for
highly skilled jobs, said Karen Stout, president of  Montgomery
County Community College , which has two campuses in the county
just west of Philadelphia. The college’s budget was cut 10
percent last year, and it hasn’t had new funds for building in
four years, she said.  While she would like to expand her college’s programs for
health-care workers and nuclear engineering technicians, they
require equipment and specialized instructors she can’t
currently afford, Stout said.  “It sounds like this program matches up exactly with those
needs,” said Stout, who hadn’t seen all the details of
President Barack Obama’s plan.  Obama in Virginia  Obama will unveil the program later today at  Northern
Virginia Community College , in Annandale,  Virginia , the
Education Department said. Later this month, Labor Secretary
Hilda Solis, Education Secretary  Arne Duncan , and Vice President
 Joe Biden ’s wife  Jill Biden  will travel across the country to
recognize community colleges and businesses that are working
together to train and employ workers.  Obama in 2009 proposed a $12-billion, 10-year-plan to
support community colleges that Congress cut to $2 billion.
State budget cuts have fallen hard in  California , where in the
2009-2010 academic year, 133,000 first-time students couldn’t
get into any course as community colleges cut offerings,
according to a statement from Jack Scott, California Community
Colleges Chancellor, in a statement Feb. 1.  “Those trends of terrible fiscal situations and surging
enrollments are still there at community colleges,” said Bailey
at the Community College Research Center.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  