-- Obama Budget Would Cut $40 Billion in Fossil-Fuel Credits
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-13T21:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/obama-proposes-cutting-40-billion-in-u-s-fossil-fuel-credits.html
President  Barack Obama , who pledged
an “all of the above” energy strategy that included fossil
fuels, renewed his proposal to cut more than $40 billion in tax
breaks for oil, gas and coal producers in the next decade to
spend more for conservation and alternate energy.  “We need to reduce our dependence on foreign oil by ending
the subsidies for  oil companies  and doubling down on clean
energy that generates jobs and strengthens our security,” Obama
said today in a speech on at Northern Virginia Community College
in Annandale, Virginia.  Republicans sided last year with companies including  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of Irving, Texas, and  ConocoPhillips (COP)  of Houston, to
push back Obama’s repeal of the fossil-fuel breaks, saying U.S.
jobs would be lost as producers denied the credit would move
operations overseas.  The budget, which boosts spending to add jobs in the short
term while reducing the deficit over a decade, will trigger
election-year sparring. The proposal borrows heavily from a
package of tax increases and spending cuts Obama offered in
September. Spending for energy efficiency and alternate energy
would rise 25 percent.  ‘Remain Difficult’  Winning support in the  U.S. Senate  “to single out the oil
and gas industry will remain difficult,” Whitney Stanco, senior
policy analyst at New York-based Guggenheim Securities LLC, said
today in a note to clients today. The prospect for repealing tax
credits for fossil fuels “will likely increase if Congress
makes progress on comprehensive corporate  tax reform ,” she
said.  The U.S. Energy Department’s 2013 budget, for the year
starting Oct. 1, provides $27.2 billion in overall spending
authority, a 3.2 increase over the current year, according to a
summary. A loss for fossil fuels will boost U.S. aid for
renewable energy and conservation programs, reflecting Obama’s
commitment to alternative sources of energy amid Republican
criticism about the collapse of Solyndra LLC, which had won a
$535 million U.S. loan guarantee then filed for  bankruptcy
protection  two years later.  The program that backed Solyndra ended in September and
isn’t renewed in the 2013 budget.  ‘All-Out’  Obama said in his State of the Union address in January the
U.S. needed an “all-out, all-of-the-above” strategy on energy.  The plan calls for a $4.75 billion cut in tax credits for
oil companies in 2013, including repeal of $3.49 billion in so-
called intangible drilling costs, for a savings of $38.6 billion
by 2022. The budget shows cuts equal about 1 percent of domestic
oil and gas revenue in the next 10 years.  “The president’s 2013 budget plan returns to the well of
bad ideas and back tracks on his State of the Union
commitment,” said  Jack Gerard , chief executive officer of the
 American Petroleum Institute  in  Washington , on a conference call
with reporters.  Scott Slesinger, legislative director of the  Natural
Resources Defense Council , said the “forward-thinking” budget
proposal would create jobs and protect the environment.  The Energy Department budget includes $12 million for
research that would reduce risks associated with hydraulic
fracturing for natural gas in shale formations. The process,
called fracking, uses a mixture of water, chemicals and sand
injected underground to free trapped gas. The Interior
Department budget includes a $13 million increase for the  U.S.
Geological Survey  to work with agencies on fracking studies.  Offshore Royalties  While the technique has driven up domestic production and
reduced prices for natural gas, environmentalists say it poses a
risk to drinking water sources.  The Interior Department’s 2013 budget projects royalties
from offshore oil and gas production to remain flat at $5.86
billion in 2013. The department is proposing inspection fees on
federal lands and waters, which would collect $48 million, fees
for non-producing oil and gas leases, to raise $13 million, and
royalties on silver, gold and copper production. Those fee
proposals were included in last year’s budget.  Obama’s budget would cut tax preferences for coal, valued
at $235 million in 2013 and $2.88 billion by 2022. The tax
benefits include letting companies expense exploration and
development costs.  Fossil-Fuel Aid  The budget would fund research in fossil-fuel energy,
primarily for  carbon capture  and storage programs, at $421
million in 2013, a 21 percent reduction from current spending.  Last year, the president requested authority for an
additional $36 billion in loan guarantees for nuclear energy,
which Congress denied. The budget for 2013 didn’t renew the
request.  “The 2013 budget does not include any additional loan
authority or appropriated credit subsidy as the program will
focus on deploying the significant amount of remaining resources
appropriated in prior years,” according to the budget document.  The coastal oil-producing states of  Louisiana ,  Texas ,
Mississippi,  Alabama ,  California  and Alaska face a $200 million
cut in an Interior Department conservation and preservation
program to protect fish and wetlands. The six states failed to
use about $540 million out of $1 billion provided in 2007-2010,
according to the Obama’s budget plan.  “States have been slow to obligate funding,”  today’s
budget proposal said. “In a period of severe fiscal restraint,
leaving these unobligated funds in an account where they are not
being deployed is no longer defensible.”  Energy Research  Among programs benefiting in Obama’s Energy proposals is
the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, which would get
$350 million in 2013, an increase from $275 million in 2012.
Secretary Steven Chu has described ARPA-E as a “swing for the
fences” program that supports research into cutting edge clean
energy innovation.  “We’re very focused on saving money by saving energy,”
Chu said at a department briefing.  Energy efficiency  and renewable energy would get $2.27
billion, an increase from $1.81 billion, under the budget
proposal.  The spending includes money for solar-energy research as
part of Chu’s SunShot Initiative to make solar competitive with
other fuel sources without subsidies by 2020. Solar energy would
get $310 million in the budget, from $289 million in 2012.  The budget would also increase spending to develop and
promote technologies to cut the energy use of buildings. That
program would get $310 million in the proposal, an increase from
$219 million.  Pipelines, NRC  An advanced manufacturing program to help industries cut
their energy use also sees an increase, from $116 million in
2012 to $290 million.  Pipeline safety budget got a 70 percent, or $64 million,
increase under the Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and
Hazardous Materials Safety Administration plan for 2013.  The president requested $1.05 billion for the  Nuclear
Regulatory Commission , a 1.5 percent increase from last year’s
budget. The proposal includes a $9.7 million increase for
reactor safety, primarily for costs to implement regulations
developed as a result of meltdowns at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant last year. The NRC expects to recover about 88 percent of
its budget authority from industry fees, according to the
regulator.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  