-- Obama Focuses on Taxing High Earners in Proposing Dividend Shift in Budget
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-02-14T15:31:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/obama-s-budget-plan-proposes-doubling-dividend-tax-in-focus-on-the-wealthy.html
President  Barack Obama  called for
$1.4 trillion in fresh revenue from Americans at the top of the
income scale, proposing higher taxes on wages and investments
and limiting breaks for retirement savings and health insurance.  The tax proposals in the administration’s fiscal 2013
budget plan, released yesterday, were immediately rejected by
business groups and congressional Republicans, who said the
ideas are part of Obama’s re-election strategy and gave them
little chance of advancing into law in 2012.  “Whether this occurs in Congress this year or this is the
tax platform for this year’s election, it’s disconcerting for
businesses,” said  Caroline Harris , chief tax counsel at the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest business group.  In what he billed a bid for tax fairness and deficit
reduction, Obama reversed his previous policy of taxing
dividends more lightly than wage income. The budget plan would
raise $206.4 billion over 10 years by treating dividends as
ordinary income for married couples making more than $250,000 a
year and individuals making more than $200,000.  “We simply can’t afford to devote $206 billion for lower
tax rates for the highest-income Americans,”  Gene Sperling ,
White House director of the National Economic Council, told
reporters. “Our system for taxing investment income for the
most well-off Americans is clearly broken.”  Higher Rates  Obama is proposing a top  individual income tax  rate of 39.6
percent in 2013, up from 35 percent. His budget would tax long-
term  capital gains  at a top rate of 20 percent, up from 15
percent. The top dividend tax rate is now 15 percent.  An additional 3.8 percent tax on the unearned income of
couples earning $250,000 and individuals making at least
$200,000 will take effect next year as part of the 2010 health-
care law. As a result, under Obama’s plan some taxpayers would
pay 43.4 percent in federal taxes on their dividends next year.
That’s almost triple what they now pay and comes on top of
corporate taxes.  A coalition of companies, including AT&T Inc. and  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , has been lobbying to maintain the current
rates on capital gains and dividends. Democratic leaders in
Congress may take their cues from Obama and propose a higher tax
rate on dividends than on capital gains, said Jim McCrery, a
lobbyist for the coalition.  “There was some comfort in knowing that the president was
supporting a top rate for both of 20 percent, and now that’s
been taken away,” said McCrery, a former Republican member of
Congress from  Louisiana  who sat on the House Ways and Means
Committee.  Policy Difference  Clint Stretch, managing principal of tax policy at Deloitte
Tax LLP in Washington, said the administration’s proposal to tax
dividends at higher rates than capital gains is surprising,
because such gains tend to go to those with the highest incomes.  “What is the policy difference that the administration has
suddenly found between qualified dividends and capital gains?”
he said. “Why do they get different rates now?”  The administration also wants to impose a 30 percent
minimum tax for individuals with annual incomes of at least $1
million, known as the Buffett rule after billionaire investor
 Warren Buffett , who originated the idea last year.  That would replace the alternative minimum tax, “which now
burdens middle-class Americans rather than stopping the richest
Americans from paying too little as was originally intended,”
the administration said.  Tax Code Rewrite  Sperling said the AMT would be eliminated as part of a
broader rewrite of the U.S. tax code. The administration hasn’t
made such a proposal, and the budget released yesterday didn’t
include repealing the AMT or imposing the Buffett rule.  Obama’s budget doesn’t say how much revenue the Buffett
rule would generate and it doesn’t provide details on how the
proposal would affect individuals’ tax calculations. The U.S.
collected $39.1 billion from the alternative minimum tax in
2011, according to projections from the  Tax Policy  Center, a
nonpartisan research organization in Washington.  The budget plan revives calls to allow the 2001 and 2003
tax cuts for income and capital gains to expire at the end of
2012 for families earning more than $250,000 a year. Obama wants
to raise the top estate tax rate to 45 percent from 35 percent
and lower the exemption amount to less than $4 million from more
than $5 million. Obama proposes capping at 28 percent itemized
deductions and other tax benefits for high-earning families.  Municipal Bond Interest  The list of capped tax breaks includes municipal bond
interest and employer-sponsored health insurance. In its budget,
the administration expanded the proposal to include
contributions to tax-advantaged retirement accounts such as
401(k) plans.  The president’s plan would tax the profits-based
compensation paid to private equity managers at ordinary income
rates instead of a preferential 15 percent rate. It also would
curtail tax breaks for corporate jets and oil and gas companies.  Obama reintroduced previous years’ proposals to limit U.S.
companies’ ability to defer taxation on income earned overseas.
He proposed new breaks for businesses that hire more workers,
manufacture advanced vehicles, make capital investments or bring
jobs into the U.S.  “This is not an integrated plan for  tax reform ,” said
Hank Gutman, principal in charge of federal tax legislative and
regulatory services at KPMG LLP in  Washington . “These are ad
hoc proposals to address issues the administration perceives as
important.”  Picking Winners  Representative  Dave Camp , who heads the House Ways and
Means Committee, said Obama’s proposals wouldn’t foster the
neutral platform that businesses need to compete.  “The president has decided to play the age-old Washington
game of picking winners and losers and handing out favors to
industries he thinks will help him politically, making the code
less fair and more complex for average Americans,” said Camp, a
Michigan Republican who is developing a tax-code overhaul.  Separately from the budget, Obama is proposing a rewrite of
the  corporate tax  system to eliminate tax benefits and lower the
top corporate rate from 35 percent. The administration plans to
release more details of its corporate tax framework by the end
of the month.  “It’s easier to talk about it in the generic terms that a
proposal coming out later could be discussed in than the
specifics of what goes into a budget book,” said Pamela Olson,
deputy U.S. tax leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in
Washington and the Treasury’s top tax policy official under
President  George W. Bush . “You can avoid talking about some of
the harsh things that you have to do in specific terms.”  The administration also proposed a boost to tax enforcement
for the  Internal Revenue Service , increasing the agency’s budget
by 8 percent to $12.8 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  