-- Obama Budget Unique Source for $3 Trillion
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s   a n d   S h a r o n   L .   L y n c h
-- 2012-02-13T16:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/obama-budget-proves-unique-with-no-similar-source-for-3-trillion-spending.html
President  Barack Obama ’s budget
outlines his ideas for how the government may spend $3.8
trillion in fiscal 2013. There’s no similar document accounting
for where taxpayers’ money actually goes.  At least three federal sources tally spending, each
following its own rules to produce a different total. For the 15
Cabinet-level agencies and Social Security, the White House
Office of Management and Budget put expenses at $3.18 trillion
in fiscal 2010, the last year for which data are complete. Ask
the Census Bureau, and the amount rises by $13.1 billion to
$3.19 trillion.  USASpending.gov , a website Obama championed as a
senator, accounts for $2.23 trillion of spending.  (For an interactive graphic, click  here .)  The nation’s budget has more than doubled in the past
decade, pushing the annual deficit to more than $1 trillion and
the national debt to $15.2 trillion. Spending dominates the
political agenda, with at least three presidential candidates
advocating the elimination of entire Cabinet agencies, while
billionaires and street protesters debate raising taxes on the
wealthy. Yet government institutions that track expenses differ
in their estimates by billions of dollars, making the budget
process less transparent to taxpayers.  ‘Bad Spending Decisions’  “If the public can’t easily find and understand quality
spending information, they can’t use that information to make
their opinions heard by Congress,” said Sam Rosen-Amy, a
federal fiscal policy analyst at the Washington-based nonprofit
research group  OMB Watch , in an e-mail. “Since insiders are the
only ones who know what’s going on, Congress ends up listening
to them, and our representatives make bad spending decisions.”  The plan Obama sent to Congress today asks for more money
for jobs, highways and bridges, schools, student aid and
manufacturing research as well as higher taxes for corporations,
banks and oil, natural gas and coal companies.  So how much does the U.S. spend? It depends on where you
look.  Consider the  Department of Health  and Human Services, which
spends more than any other government agency and pays for the
health care of one in four Americans through the Medicare and
Medicaid programs for the elderly, poor and disabled. In fiscal
2010, HHS paid out either $854 billion, according to the OMB, or
$944 billion, according to the Census. The $90 billion
difference is almost half the value of  Johnson & Johnson , the
world’s biggest supplier of health-care products by market
capitalization.  Analyzing Spending Accounts  “To  Washington , these are rounding errors,” said Pete Sepp, executive director of the Alexandria, Virginia-based
 National Taxpayers Union , in a telephone interview. “To the
rest of America, this is real money that could help real people
with real problems.”  Bloomberg examined publicly available spending accounts
from the Census Bureau, the White House’s OMB and
USASpending.gov. The first contained 4.3 million records in the
Consolidated Federal Funds Report, an annual Census  survey  of
 government spending  since 1993. The White House Public Budget
Database  compiles  estimated federal spending in 4,800 separate
accounts dating back to 1962.  USASpending.gov, operated by the White House budget office,
includes outlays via federal grants and direct payments, as well
as details on the almost 1 million contracts the government
awards each year.  One reason for the discrepancies is that the White House
database accounts for foreign and domestic spending, while the
Census limits its analysis to payments in the U.S. and its
territories. The institutions also account for funding transfers
between agencies differently.  Accounting Challenges  For example,  HHS  spends about $500 million a year running
health programs for employees of other government agencies,
according to  Bill Hall , a Health and Human Services spokesman.
The other departments then reimburse HHS for the costs. The
White House budget office does a better job of accounting for
these inter-agency transfers, Hall said in an e-mail.  Labor Department figures pose a different set of accounting
challenges. Labor administers federal unemployment programs, and
its spending surged in fiscal 2009 and 2010 to the fourth-
highest in the government, behind HHS, Social Security and
Defense.  A February 2009 Labor Department  document  shows the Obama
administration requesting $13.3 billion from Congress for fiscal
2010. What the three-page “funding highlights” proposal
doesn’t say is that an additional $91.2 billion in spending was
required by law for programs such as  unemployment insurance .  By the Numbers  Congress set the department’s spending authority at $178.4
billion, and actual spending that year totaled $172.2 billion,
according to Geoff Kenyon, director of Labor’s budget center.
The Census report showed the agency spending $91.9 billion, in
part because Labor didn’t fully report the cost of  unemployment
benefits  to the bureau, Kenyon said.  USASpending.gov accounts for no more than $14 billion in
Labor Department spending that year, a figure Kenyon said he
couldn’t explain. The site was developed to comply with the 2006
Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act sponsored by
Obama, then a Democratic senator from  Illinois , and Oklahoma
Republican Senator Tom Coburn.  Some federal spending on contracts, salaries and awards of
less than $25,000 isn’t captured by the site, said Moira Mack, a
spokeswoman for OMB. The office is still adding information to
USASpending, she said.  Discretionary Spending  The president’s budget proposal is the starting point for a
plan that is ultimately set by Congress. More than half of
spending is dictated by existing law or is required interest
payments on government debt, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  Social Security and Medicare, which provide income and
health benefits to the elderly and the disabled, are examples of
fixed, or mandatory, spending programs that account for hundreds
of billions of dollars that can’t be cut without legislation.  The actual amount on the table during the congressional
appropriations process is known as discretionary spending, which
agencies request for programs. Examples include Pentagon weapons
systems and most federal assistance to schools.  Congress typically disputes less than 10 percent of the
discretionary requests in the president’s budget, according to
Washington-based  Taxpayers for Common Sense , which promotes
government transparency and advocates more efficient spending.  Big Margins  “Congress doesn’t have the resources or the time to do
much more than tweak the margins,” said  Steve Ellis , vice
president of the group. “Of course, when you’re talking about a
trillion-dollar discretionary budget, the margins are still
potentially in the tens of billions of dollars.”  From fiscal 2000 through fiscal 2010, federal spending
totaled $24.6 trillion for Cabinet-level departments and Social
Security, according to the White House’s OMB. The Census Bureau
put the amount at $24.98 trillion.  The Washington-based  Sunlight Foundation  has compiled
annual reports on the OMB’s USASpending.gov website for the past
three years. For fiscal 2010, it found that information related
to 95 percent, or $1.31 trillion, of government grant
obligations was incomplete, based on a review of 18 required
data points.  Question of Transparency  Obama signed an  executive order  in June creating the
Government Accountability and Transparency Board to implement
guidelines for collecting and displaying spending data. In
December, the board recommended creating an independent panel as
well as a single framework for presenting information.  Representative  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, and
Senator Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, have their own ideas,
laid out in the  proposed  Digital Accountability and Transparency
Act. It would create an oversight board and a new website for
disseminating federal spending data. The Congressional Budget
Office in September estimated their plan would cost $575 million
over five years.  Meanwhile, the Census Bureau is discontinuing its annual
spending report to save $700,000, said Robert Bernstein, an
agency spokesman, in an e-mail. The government maintains at
least 14 websites dedicated to different segments of federal
spending, and none provide a definitive way to track cash flows.  “It all depends on where you’re sitting, who you’re
talking to, and when you’re talking to them,” said the
Taxpayers Union’s Sepp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frank Bass in New York at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon L. Lynch in New York at 
 sllynch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert L. Simison in  San Francisco  at 
 rsimison@bloomberg.net  