-- Oil Rises to One-Month High as Greek Approval of Austerity Plan
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-02-13T20:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/oil-advances-as-greek-approval-of-austerity-bolsters-economic-optimism.html
Oil rose to a one-month high after
the Greek parliament approved an austerity plan, easing  Europe ’s
debt crisis, and sanctions tightened on Iran. Technical issues
halted electronic trading late in the session.  Futures climbed 2.3 percent and global equities advanced
after passage of the package needed for 130 billion euros ($172
billion) in aid. Companies controlling more than 100
supertankers said they would stop loading cargoes from Iran, the
second-biggest crude producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  “We popped overnight on the Greek austerity measures and
have maintained the gains,” said  Stephen Schork , president of
the Schork Group in Villanova, Pennsylvania. “Crude is aping
the equity market. If equities continue to move higher, crude
will follow.”  Crude oil for March delivery rose $2.24 to $100.91 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement
since Jan. 10. Prices are up 18 percent from a year ago.  CME Group Inc.’s Globex crude and products markets were
halted by technical issues, the company said on its website.
Trading resumed at 3:15 p.m. New York time.  Brent oil for March settlement rose 62 cents, or 0.5
percent, to end the session at $117.93 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  European Union finance ministers are scheduled to meet on
Feb. 15 in Brussels to decide whether to approve the aid
package. Resolution of the negotiations would help contain the
threat that speculators will target debt-saddled countries,
including Italy and  Portugal .  ‘Won’t Fix Greece’  “This won’t fix Greece but it does buy time,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in  St. Louis . “This time should be used to come up
with an exit strategy for countries to leave the euro zone in a
controlled fashion.”  The 27 EU member states accounted for about 16 percent of
global oil demand in 2010, according to BP Plc’s annual
Statistical Review of World Energy.  “The approval of the Greek austerity measures gave the
euro a boost and sent equities higher,” said Chris Dillman, an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.
“The news that shippers will stop loading Iranian cargoes is
also driving the market higher.”  Stopping Shipments  Overseas Shipholding Group (OSG)  said Feb. 10 the pool of 45
supertankers from seven owners in which its carriers trade will
no longer call at Iran. Nova Tankers A/S and Frontline Ltd.,
with a combined 93 vessels, said Feb. 9 and Feb. 11 they won’t
ship crude from the Persian Gulf nation.  The EU’s Jan. 23 agreement to embargo Iran’s oil starting
in July because of its nuclear program extended the ban to ship
insurance. With about 95 percent of the tanker fleet insured
under rules governed by European law, fewer vessels will be able
to load in Iran.  “Iran is what’s really pushing crude up,” said
 Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in
 London . “If Iranian exports are choked off because of the
insurance issue, we will see higher prices.”  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said Feb. 11 he will
unveil “major nuclear accomplishments” in coming days, state-
run Press TV reported.  Iran  has threatened to block shipments
through the Strait of Hormuz, a transit route for about 20
percent of the world’s globally traded oil.  Blaming Iran  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  blamed Iran for
two attacks on Israeli embassy personnel in India and Georgia.
The Persian Gulf nation has blamed Israel for a series of deadly
attacks on scientists involved in its nuclear program. Iran’s
Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  pledged Feb. 3 to help
“any nation or group that confronts the Zionist regime.”  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased bullish
bets on oil by 4,440 contracts, or 2.2 percent, to 205,709 in
the week ended Feb. 7, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said in a weekly report Feb. 10.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 484,686
contracts as of 3:26 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 653,655 on
Feb. 10. Open interest was 1.49 million contracts, the highest
level since Sept. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  