-- Oil Rises From Three-Day Low on Iran Supply Threat, Greek Vote
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-13T13:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/oil-rises-as-greece-passes-austerity-measures-iran-supply-threat-grows.html
Oil recovered from a three-day low
in  New York  as concern grew that a ban on Iranian crude may cut
supplies while the Greek parliament’s approval of austerity
measures boosted hope for a solution to Europe’s debt crisis.  Futures climbed as much as 1.3 percent as the euro headed
toward a two-month high after 199 lawmakers supported the bill
in a roll-call vote shown live on state-run Vouli TV, against 74
who opposed it. The measures were needed for a 130 billion-euro
($172 billion) aid package, Greece’s second since May 2010. Oil
may extend gains after companies controlling more than 100
supertankers said they would stop loading cargoes from Iran,
tightening sanctions on OPEC’s second-biggest producer.  “Iran is what’s really pushing crude up,” said
 Christopher Bellew , a senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in
London who predicts prices may rise further. “If Iranian
exports are choked off because of the insurance issue we will
see higher prices. The stronger euro is contributing to today’s
price increase, but I don’t think a bailout will lead to a
miraculous recovery in Greece.”  Crude for March delivery rose as much as $1.32 to $99.99 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $99.78 at 12:57 p.m. London time. Futures
fell 1.2 percent to $98.67 on Feb. 10, the lowest settlement
since Feb. 7, and are up 18 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for March settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was up $1.06 at $118.37 a barrel. The
more-actively traded April contract was up 99 cents at $117.74.
The European benchmark crude was at a  premium  of $18.59 to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate grade, compared with a
record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Iran Sanctions  Overseas Shipholding Group said Feb. 10 the pool of 45
supertankers from seven owners in which its carriers trade will
no longer call at  Iran . Nova Tankers A/S and Frontline Ltd.,
with a combined 93 vessels, said Feb. 9 and Feb. 11 they won’t
ship crude from the Persian Gulf nation.  The European Union’s Jan. 23 agreement to embargo Iran’s
oil from July because of its nuclear program extended the ban to
ship insurance. With about 95 percent of the tanker fleet
insured under rules governed by European law, fewer vessels will
be able to load in Iran.  Nuclear Claims  “Latest reports on Iran suggest that financial sanctions
are already hitting oil production, with falls in output and
exports likely to accelerate,”  Mark Pervan , head of commodity
research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in
 Melbourne , said in a note today. “The nation is looking to
showcase its nuclear capabilities to the rest of the world in
the coming days, which we think could provide additional support
to  oil prices  in the region as tensions flare.”  Iran’s crude output dropped the most in six months by an
average 30,000 barrels a day, or 0.8 percent, to 3.55 million
barrels a day in January, according to a Bloomberg survey of
analysts and producers. President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said Feb.
11 he will unveil “major nuclear accomplishments” in coming
days, state-run Press TV reported. Iran has threatened to block
shipments through the  Strait of Hormuz , a transit route for
about 20 percent of the world’s globally traded oil.  Passage of the austerity bill in  Greece  puts the spotlight
on a meeting of euro-region finance ministers on Feb. 15 in
Brussels to decide whether to approve the aid package.
Resolution of the negotiations, which started in July, would
help contain the threat that speculators will target debt-
saddled countries, including Italy and  Portugal .  The 27 EU member states accounted for about 16 percent of
global oil demand in 2010, according to BP Plc’s annual
Statistical Review of World Energy.  Speculative Positions  Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased bullish
wagers on oil by 4,440 contracts, or 2.2 percent, to 205,709 in
the week ended Feb. 7, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said in a weekly report Feb. 10.  Money managers raised bullish bets on  Brent crude  by 3,972
contracts in the week ended Feb. 7, according to data from ICE
Futures  Europe . Speculative bets that prices will rise, in
futures and options combined, outnumbered short positions by
90,395 lots, the exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. That’s up from 86,423 the previous week.  Morgan Stanley predicts Brent crude may fall as low as $85
a barrel this year as supplies increase and global demand slows.  Crude inventories may increase in the first half of this
year, putting pressure on prices to come lower if geopolitical
tensions subside and no unplanned supply disruptions occur,
 Hussein Allidina , the bank’s head of commodity research in New
York, said in a report today. Currently high prices and a weaker
economic outlook will also slow demand, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  