-- Okun’s Law ‘Broken’ as U.S. Jobless Rate Unexpectedly Declines: Tom Keene
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-13T22:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/okun-s-law-broken-as-u-s-jobless-rate-unexpectedly-declines-tom-keene.html
A gauge known as Okun’s Law that’s
historically used to predict the U.S.  unemployment rate  based on
the economic growth outlook is “broken,” according to Goldman
Sachs Inc.  Okun’s law indicated the unemployment rate should have
remained steady when the rate unexpectedly dropped 1.7
percentage points from a recent peak,  Andrew Tilton , a senior
economist in  New York  at the firm, said in an interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  “For a long time, we and most other economists used Okun’s
Law as a rule of thumb for deciding what kind of unemployment
rate we should expect given a GDP outlook,” Tilton said,
calling the recent loss of correlation “really quite
striking.”  Okun’s law is named for the late Arthur Okun, a Yale
University professor who was chairman of the White House Council
of Economic Advisers in the late 1960s. The law holds that year-
on-year growth of 2 percentage points above the trend rate --
widely considered 2.5 percent -- is needed to lower unemployment
by one point.  “We’ve actually had growth almost exactly in line with
that over the last couple of years, just below 2½percent,”
Tilton said. “That would historically have suggested
unemployment would be relatively steady. But, instead, it’s down
almost 2 points from the peak in late 2009, early 2010.”  The gauge reflects lower potential growth over that
period, said Tilton.  ‘Dropped Sharply’  The unemployment rate unexpectedly dropped in January to
8.3 percent, a three-year low, the Labor Department reported
Feb. 3. The rate touched a high of 10 percent in October 2009,
 the highest  since 1983. The same report showed the share of
working-age people in the  labor force  had declined to the lowest
level in 29 years.  “Labor force participation has dropped sharply over the
last couple of years,” Tilton said. “That the labor market has
been so bad has caused a number of people to stop looking
actively for work.”  The  U.S. economy  needs GDP growth of about 3 percent for
the next four years to catch up to potential, Tilton said,
adding that the economy may take at least four to five years to
reach its potential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  