-- Molecule Restores Motor Function in Mouse Study of Huntington’s Disease
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-02-13T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/molecule-restores-motor-function-in-mouse-study-of-huntington-s-disease.html
Researchers of  Huntington’s disease ,
a brain condition with no cure, said they restored motor skills
in mice, pointing to a possible therapy for humans.  Infusing a brain molecule called GM1 into the laboratory
animals eased motor impairment within days, scientists at the
University of Alberta in Edmonton, Canada, said today in the
 Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences  of the U.S.  Huntington’s is a genetic disorder that causes cells in the
brain to break down, potentially impeding movement and causing
antisocial behavior, hallucinations and dementia. Doctors have
no means to stop the disease, which generally begins from ages
30 to 50, according to the  U.S. National Institutes of Health .
It’s too early to know whether GM1 therapy would work in humans,
said the senior study author,  Simonetta Sipione .  “Although our data are encouraging, translating our
findings to patients might still take quite some time,” said
Sipione, an assistant professor in the university’s pharmacology
department, in an e-mail yesterday.  Clinical trials are needed
to determine whether GM1 can delay or stop the effects of the
disease, she said.  For the study, the researchers infused a synthetic form of
GM1, made by closely held Seneb Biosciences Inc., of North
Wales,  Pennsylvania , into the brains of mice for 28 days. The
animals had what scientists call a model of the disease in
humans.  Motor Skills  After 12 to 14 days, the mice saw motor skills return to
normal, Sipione said. While the benefits appeared to last at
least 14 days after treatment, the mice worsened and eventually
returned to pre-treatment condition, according to the study.
That may mean that if the treatment works in humans, GM1 would
need to be taken for the entire course of the  disease , Sipione
said.  GM1, a molecule produced in the body, is a type of lipid
and is part of the membrane that surrounds each cell. GM1
modulates communication between neurons in the brain and their
response to their environment, Sipione said. Levels of GM1 in
the body can be depressed by the disease.  Restoring GM1 may help neurons communicate and interpret
signals from the environment, Sipione said. The treatment also
may make a mutant protein called huntingtin less toxic.  “GM1 does not block the production of the toxic mutant
huntingtin, but seems to make it less toxic and/or help neurons
cope with it,” Sipione said.  Tests of GM1 in humans with the disease may begin in the
next two years, according to the researchers. GM1 is already
being tested in  Parkinson’s disease  and other neurodegenerative
diseases, the scientists said.  ‘Really Promising’  “It’s a really promising strategy,”  Jang-Ho Cha , an
advisory-committee chairman for the  Huntington’s Disease Society
of America , and director of clinical research in neuroscience at
 Whitehouse Station , New Jersey-based  Merck & Co. , said today in
a telephone interview. “Before you go forward you need to know
how many different processes does GM1 hit.”  If GM1 affects a specific enzyme in the brain that works on
the mutant protein huntingtin, a treatment might target that
enzyme rather than GM1, he said.  The society is continuing a mission begun by Marjorie
Guthrie, the widow of folk singer Woody Guthrie, who died of
Huntington’s disease, according to the New York-based nonprofit
group’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  