-- Olympus Forecasts $412 Million Annual Net Loss, Missing Analyst Estimates
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-02-13T10:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/olympus-forecasts-412-million-annual-loss-missing-estimates.html
Olympus Corp. (7733) , the Japanese camera
maker that admitted a 13-year accounting fraud, predicted an
annual loss that was worse than analysts’ estimates as it wrote
off equipment damaged by Thailand’s record floods.  President Shuichi Takayama, whose management team may be
forced out in an April 20 shareholder meeting, said the company
may seek an alliance to bolster capital. The net loss in the
year ending in March may total 32 billion yen ($412 million),
Olympus said in a statement today, while analysts from  Barclays
Capital  and Deutsche Bank Group estimated a 25.5 billion-yen
average shortfall.  Olympus  shares  have plunged 48 percent since  Michael Woodford  publicly questioned inflated takeover costs after being
ousted as chief executive officer. Fujifilm Holdings Corp., a
camera maker with plans to expand in health care, has proposed a
partnership. Sony Corp. also is considering an investment, the
Nikkei newspaper reported.  “The biggest problem for Olympus is its equity capital,”
said  Yoshihiro Okumura , who helps manage the equivalent of $365
million at Chiba-Gin Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “The
current balance sheet is agonizing. The company needs to
increase its capital as soon as possible.”  Operating Profit  Takayama said today that Olympus isn’t involved in any
talks on capital alliances and may choose not to sell shares
since it secured its listing with the Tokyo Stock Exchange in
the aftermath of the fraud. The company rose 0.4 percent to
1,282 yen in Tokyo trading today, before the earnings
announcement.  The scandal, which involved a $1.7 billion cover-up of
losses, had no major impact on business, Olympus said. The
company wrote down 14.05 billion yen to reflect a drop in the
value of its inventories after  Thailand ’s worst floods in 70
years swamped factories and warehouses.  Operating profit  will probably decline 6.2 percent to 36
billion yen while revenue may increase 0.8 percent to 854
billion yen. The revenue forecast matched estimates, and the
operating-profit forecast missed the average of 41 billion yen.  New Management  Olympus is considering ways to boost capital after taking a
$1.3 billion cut in net assets in December. The world’s biggest
maker of endoscopes  plans  a special shareholder meeting on April
20 for investors to vote on a new management. The new management
will make any “large” decisions, Takayama said.  “The focus now is who will head the company next and who
will be the strategic partner,” said Ichiro Takamatsu, a
portfolio manager at Tokyo-based Bayview Asset Management Co.
“The company needs to form an equity alliance” because its
 capital structure  is weak, he said.  TPG Capital, the private-equity firm based in  Fort Worth ,
 Texas , and run by billionaire  David Bonderman , is considering
whether to join with a strategic partner to invest as much as $1
billion, a person familiar with the matter said last month.  Terumo Corp., Olympus’s top  supplier  and the 10th- largest 
shareholder, also is considering ways to strengthen the
partnership, it said last month.  The Tokyo exchange last month allowed Olympus to keep its
stock market listing after fining the company 10 million yen and
telling it to submit reports on efforts to improve management.  Criminal Investigations  The exchange put Olympus on a watchlist last year following
the company’s admission it inflated fees to advisers on the $2.1
billion acquisition of London-listed Gyrus Group Plc in 2008 and
overpaid for three Japanese companies.  The 92-year-old company still faces criminal probes and
shareholder lawsuits against executives, including Takayama,
even after purging ex-Chairman Tsuyoshi Kikukawa and other
executives it found to be involved in the scheme. The fraud to
conceal soured investments dating back to the 1990s raised
concerns among investors and lawmakers over  Japan ’s corporate
governance rules.  Founded in 1919 as a microscope and thermometer business,
Olympus produced its first camera in 1936 and a predecessor to
the modern-day endoscope in 1950, according to the company’s
website. Endoscopes are instruments that doctors use to look
inside the body cavity and can help detect diseases such as
colorectal cancer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  