-- Thom Browne Dares Bankers to Sport Sharp Suits With Munster Cut
-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 2012-02-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/thom-browne-dares-bankers-to-sport-sharp-suits-with-munster-cut.html
Thom Browne could not be more
different from the severe suits that made him famous.  Walking me through his blindingly white studio, he was
almost disconcertingly pleasant. This came as a surprise, given
his reputation as a perfectionist and the circus-level pageantry
of his shows.  A small pack of willowy eastern-European models milled
about, waiting to be cast for his Autumn/Winter 2012 women’s
fashion show that takes place today.  Browne is 47, though he looks 10 years younger. He designs
his own clothing label, the  Black Fleece  line for Brooks
Brothers Inc., and Moncler’s  Gamme Bleu  collection.  While each of these is distinct, it’s apparent to even the
most casual observer that every piece he designs is a Thom
Browne creation. (His last show drew headlines for its Herman
Munster style menswear.)  We spoke about his aesthetic, his fashion shows and why a
well-made gray suit will never go out of style.  Tarmy: How can you be this relaxed a few days before your
show?  Browne: Well, now is when I get to do what I really like to
do: I get to see the clothes, have them around, really live with
them -- because once the show is over, the clothing goes away
forever, off into the world.  Tarmy: In your actual fashion shows, though, the clothing
almost seems beside the point.  Show Story  Browne: When I do my shows I want people to see the
clothing, of course, but I also want them to see the story I’ve
created about the clothes.  And I like to put my clothes in a setting that makes
viewers remember it. Which is why my shows are unlike anything
else you’ll see in the world.  Tarmy: Do people actually wear the looks that go into your
shows?  Browne: That question drives me crazy: “Who’s going to
wear that?” Well, first of all, maybe there is somebody who’s
actually going to wear one of the  runway looks , I’d say around
85 percent of what’s in the shows is actually bought.  But more importantly, the 40 looks that you see in every
show are there to make you think differently about a varsity
jacket, think differently about a cardigan sweater. They’re
presented in a fairly avant-garde way to open your eyes.  Tarmy: Who are your customers?  Browne: My business started out as a made-to-measure,
custom suit business, and that’s still a big part of what I do.
When I started, my clients were mostly artists; now my client
base is across the board. I have bankers, attorneys, architects,
actors.  Banking Uniform  Tarmy: It’s hard to imagine bankers coming to you -- isn’t
the Wall Street uniform an ill-fitting American suit?  Browne: That’s changing. I think guys are more in tune with
looking better, and appreciating quality. And you get one guy in
the office dressed in my clothes, and it makes everyone else
start to think “Oh I guess I should try a little harder.”  Tarmy: Would you ever create a suit for someone that breaks
with your aesthetic? Like a suit with a pant leg that breaks?  Browne: Some people think I tell my customers that their
suits have to be cut really short, and that’s just not the case.  With that said, I never want my suits to lose their
sensibility. If someone is buying a suit from me, they should
really like it, and they should feel comfortable in it. And if
they want to get something different, I would rather tell them
where to go than have them not come to me at all.  Bespoke Style  Tarmy: So part of your bespoke services is as a stylist,
not just a tailor?  Browne: I think that’s what a good salesperson is: someone
who advises the customer, and who asks: “What do you like?”
It’s important to make your customers think about themselves,
about what their true style is.  Tarmy: But what if their true style is terrible?  Browne: It’s the responsibility of the salesperson. They
have to know about the clothing, and know how clothing should
fit. I can only do so much. I can’t force customers into the
clothes. But it’s usually enough once someone sees the way that
my clothing fits him.  Tarmy: Is there such a thing as American style?  Homogenized World  Browne: No, I think the world has been too homogenized.
Everyone has access to everything. I think  Tokyo  is the one
exception. It’s the only place where people have true
originality and confidence in the way that they dress.  Tarmy: You’ve had such a profound impact on the way men
wear suits. What’s next?  Browne: Every six months I move that gray suit up, down,
sideways, all over the place. It doesn’t ever need to change,
and it won’t ever change. It will always be a well-made suit
that fits well.  The Thom Browne New York Autumn/Winter 2012-13 Women’s
Collection show is at  New York Public Library . Information:
 http://www.thombrowne.com/   (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York at  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 