-- Thomas Storrs, Who Set Stage for Bank of America in ’80s Deals, Dies at 93
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-02-13T03:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/thomas-storrs-who-set-stage-for-bank-of-america-in-1980s-dies-at-93.html
Thomas Storrs, whose determination
to expand North Carolina National Bank beyond state borders laid
the foundation for today’s  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , has died. He
was 93.  Storrs died Feb. 10 in  Charlotte , North Carolina, according
to a notice in The State newspaper of Columbia,  South Carolina .
No cause was given.  As chairman and chief executive officer from 1974 to 1983
of NCNB Corp., the Charlotte-based parent of North Carolina
National Bank, Storrs set his sights on challenging federal laws
that generally limited a bank’s operations to its home state.  In 1982, using a quirk in Florida law, he successfully
arranged the acquisition of three Florida banks, beginning with
First National Bank of Lake City, with $24 million of assets,
and Gulfstream Banks Inc. of Boca Raton, with assets of $665
million, according to accounts in the  New York  Times.  When he retired in 1983, he handed the reins to Hugh McColl
Jr., who would lead an acquisition spree that culminated with
the 1998 merger of NationsBank Corp., NCNB’s successor, with San
Francisco-based BankAmerica Corp. to create Bank of America,
then the largest U.S. bank by deposits.  McColl credited Storrs for the push to expand across state
lines, Rick Rothacker wrote in his 2010 book, “Banktown: The
Rise and Struggles of Charlotte’s Big Banks.”  “We realized that if we didn’t leave North Carolina, we
would never amount to anything, that we would not be
important,” McColl said, according to the book. Regardless of
how quickly North Carolina could grow, “we could never catch up
with New York or somebody like that who already had the benefit
of hundreds of years of being a money center.”  ‘Tom’s Vision’  In an e-mailed statement yesterday about Storrs’ death,
Bank of America CEO  Brian T. Moynihan  said: “We can serve
customers from Charlotte to  China  and everywhere in between
because of Tom’s vision and banking acumen. Tom was an architect
of Bank of America and one of the giants on whose shoulders his
successors all have stood.”  Thomas Irwin Storrs was born on Aug. 25, 1918, in Nashville,
 Tennessee , the son of Robert Williamson Storrs Jr., and Addie
Sue Payne Storrs, according to the notice in The State. He grew
up in Richmond,  Virginia , and earned a bachelor’s degree from
the  University of Virginia .  He served as a destroyer officer in the U.S. Navy during
World War II and was recalled to active duty during the Korean
War. He earned a Ph.D. in economics in 1955 from  Harvard
University .  He worked his way up to vice president of the Federal
Reserve Bank of Richmond, which in 1959 made him officer in
charge of its branch in Charlotte. A year later he joined  North
Carolina  National Bank as an executive vice president and became
vice chairman and president before taking over as chairman and
CEO, succeeding Addison Reese.  With the former Kitty Stewart Bird, his wife since 1948,
Storrs had a son, Thomas, and a daughter, Margaret.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  