-- Central London Home Rents Fall in January as Financial Service Jobs Vanish
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-02-13T08:14:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/london-january-home-rents-fall-from-september-high-as-city-jobs-disappear.html
Home rents in central  London  fell in
January from the month before because of job losses and cutbacks
in London’s financial services industry,  Knight Frank LLP  said.  Residential rents declined 0.2 percent in January from
December and 0.6 percent from an all-time peak in September,
according to an  index  compiled by the real estate broker.
January rents were 7 percent higher than a year earlier, Knight
Frank said.  “With the banking sector expected to deliver much lower
bonuses in the first quarter of 2012 compared to last year,
tenants who are building deposits for eventual entry to the
housing market are looking to reduce their rental costs,”  Liam Bailey , head of residential research at  Knight Frank , said in a
statement. “Our view looking ahead is that rents will begin to
rise slightly from the spring onwards.”  U.K. financial-services firms eliminated 58,000 jobs last
year, more than any other country in the world, as London is
squeezed by both the European sovereign-debt crisis and
politicians who blame financiers for the global credit crunch.
The cost of renting, which slid 20 percent from March 2008 to
June 2009, jumped 27 percent in the two years to September,
reaching the highest level ever, Bailey said.  “At best, disposable income even in central London, only
rose by around 8 percent over the same period,” he said.
“Landlords are having to accept that continually rising rents
are not a fixture of the market.”  Companies cut their rent budgets by as much as 15 percent
over the last 12 months for employees relocated to London, the
report said.  Knight Frank doesn’t anticipate “significant rises from
here,” Bailey said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in London at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Ross Larsen at 
 Rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 