-- Toronto Bubble Risk Tops New York in Condos: Mortgages
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-02-14T20:58:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/toronto-bubble-risk-topping-new-york-in-market-for-condominiums-mortgages.html
(Corrects Toronto housing price in 32nd paragraph of story
that ran yesterday.)  A sliver of land wedged between
Toronto’s elevated expressway and an off-ramp that pumps traffic
into downtown may become the epicenter for a Canadian housing
bubble.  In four years, this site that’s now used as a parking lot
and police impound near the shores of  Lake Ontario  will be home
to  Ten York , a 75-story glass building that would be the
country’s third-tallest condo tower.  Toronto has more skyscrapers and high-rises under
construction than any North American city -- almost three times
as many as  New York  -- stoking debate on whether the condominium
market in Canada’s largest city is headed for a U.S.-style
correction as prices rise and household borrowing hits a record.
Canadian lenders including Toronto-Dominion Bank last week
raised  mortgage rates  to cool off the housing market.  “Condo construction has always been rather prone to boom
and bust cycles, and this one seems particularly strong,” said
Sheryl King, an economist with Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
Toronto. “Builders seem to overestimate how much demand is
going to be out there, and that’s when you tend to see some
abrupt pull-back.”  Canada ’s housing market is about 10 percent overvalued,
with inflated prices primarily in Vancouver, Montreal and
Toronto, King said in a telephone interview. “We would call it
a bubble,” she said.  Mortgage Lending Expands  Rising home prices have led to a 53 percent increase in
residential mortgage credit in the past five years, or an
average rate of 8.9 percent a year. The volume of outstanding
mortgages rose to C$1.08 trillion ($1.08 trillion) as of August,
according to the Canadian Association of Accredited Mortgage
Professionals. Defaults remain low, at 0.42 percent, according
to data from Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp., a government-run
housing agency.  The country’s financial authorities have become
increasingly vocal about the housing market. The heads of Bank
of Montreal and  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) ; the country’s banking
regulator, and Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  have all
expressed concerns about the condo markets in recent months as
cranes and construction crews swamp Toronto.  Toronto has 148 high-rises and skyscrapers being built,
compared with 59 tall buildings for No. 2-ranked  New York City ,
and 22 in  Chicago , according to  Emporis , a Hamburg-based
building data company.  Trump Toronto  Most of the work is for housing, with 105 residential high-
rises proposed or under construction, according to a database by
 SkyscraperPage.com . Fourteen are slated to finish this year,
including two hotel-condos. Trump International Hotel & Tower
Toronto, Canada’s tallest residential building, opened Jan. 31,
adding 118 luxury residences to the city’s inventory.  “The number of units under construction is quite high,
start levels have trended up, and the number of units coming to
completion is growing,” said Shaun Hildebrand, a senior market
analyst for the Greater Toronto Area with Canada Mortgage &
Housing Corp. “Supply at all ends of the development process is
growing quite quickly.”  A record 27,504 condo units in the City of Toronto were
under construction at the end of last year, according to
Canadian Mortgage & Housing annual data, adding to the city’s
total of 199,000 units.  “If builders stopped building today, there’s five years
worth of supply that is about to be delivered, relative to what
normal population growth is,” Bank of America’s King said.  Rates to Rise  Investors are piling into Toronto’s condo market because of
cheap borrowing costs and that may become risky when  interest
rates  rise, said John Andrew, a real estate professor at Queen’s
University in Kingston, Ontario.  “They’re being bought because the interest rate is very
low,” Andrew said in a telephone interview. “They’re financed
to the hilt, so they’re very sensitive to the refinance risk
when the loans come up.”  Banks are also cutting their funding costs by selling
covered bonds, a form of corporate bond backed by assets such as
home loans. Bank of Montreal and Bank of  Nova Scotia  sold $4.5
billion of the securities last month, after a record $25 billion
of sales in 2011. Relative yields on the covered bonds fell to
130 basis points on Feb. 9, down from 170 at the start of the
year, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  The  Bank of Canada  has held its benchmark lending rate at 1
percent since September 2010 and will probably maintain that
level until the second quarter of 2013, according to median
forecasts from economists compiled by Bloomberg. Carney has said
“excesses may exist in certain areas” of Canada’s housing
market.  Market Overshoot  “The elevated levels of ‘multiples’ inventories, the ample
pipeline of developments underway, and heavy investor demand
(much of it foreign) reinforces the possibility of an overshoot
in the condo market in some major cities,” Carney said in a
June 15 speech in Vancouver.  Investors are underestimating the potential impact of the
surge in condo supply coming onto the market in the next 12 to
24 months, according to King. That could drive down resale
prices and rents, even with low interest rates and a stable
mortgage funding market.  “Investors are a concern given rental rates no longer
fully cover costs and unit price increases going forward will
not likely provide sufficient return,” the  Office of the
Superintendent of Financial Institutions  said in a June draft
report obtained last month by Bloomberg News through an Access
to Information request.  Foreign Buyers  Foreign buyers are also affecting housing, according to
OSFI. The bank regulator has been monitoring the impact of
foreign investment on the housing markets in Toronto and
 Vancouver , the documents obtained by Bloomberg show. Authorities
in  China ,  Hong Kong  and  Australia  have recently taken measures
to cool off their residential real-estate markets, the documents
note.  “The stability of Canada has moved it to the forefront of
investor preference, in some cases ahead of the U.S.,” states a
draft analysis of Toronto’s condo market.  Investors represent a “significant portion” of Toronto’s
condo market, with 20 percent to 30 percent or higher for some
projects, the report said.  High-rise homes reached a record 62 percent of all new home
sales last year as condos outsold traditional detached homes
three to one, RealNet said in a Jan. 20 report with the Building
Industry and Land Development Association. That’s up from 25
percent of the market in 2000.  Demand Won’t Fall  “In absence of another recession, we’re not expecting
demand to fall,” Canadian Mortgage’s Hildebrand said. “We’re
expecting it to hold steady so long as the economy holds
steady.”  Toronto is home to about 2.5 million people -- more than
double that including its suburbs -- and accounts for about 11
percent of Canada’s economic output, according to the  City of
Toronto . The city is home to Canada’s five-biggest banks, two of
the three largest Canadian insurers as well as some of the
country’s largest pension funds, asset managers and financial-
services firms.  Realtors and others in the industry say the record condo
units under construction will be easily absorbed by 100,000
immigrants streaming into the city each year, wealthy foreign
investors looking for a haven to park their money and young
urbanites demanding to work near the financial industry that is
the backbone of the city’s economy.  ‘Good Place’  “There are reasons why people want to spend time in
Toronto, and that’s part of what supports these real-estate
markets,” said William Strange, RioCan Real Estate Investment
Trust Professor of Real Estate and Urban Economics at Rotman
School of Management in Toronto. “Toronto tends to be a pretty
good place to do business and, with respect to Canada, it also
tends to be a place where people want to live.”  Tridel , Toronto’s biggest condo developer, is already
fielding calls for the 783 units of Ten York and plans to start
selling in April, more than a year before the C$295 million
project begins construction.  “There’s a tremendous amount of interest,” said Jim
Ritchie, senior vice president of sales and marketing for
Tridel. “We have thousands of names of people who want to buy
here.”  Developers sell most units of a project before building
begins, and many investors buy the condos to either resell or
rent out when the construction is finished. Rental units
accounted for 24 percent of all condos in Toronto last year, up
from 21 percent in 2010, according to CMHC.  Vacancy Rates  A total 8,250 condo apartment rental units were added to
Toronto last year, CMHC said. The average vacancy rate for
Toronto rental condos was 1.3 percent last year, down from 2
percent in 2010.  Toronto’s rising prices for townhouses and single-family
homes are driving more homebuyers into condos. In January, the
 average price  for a detached home in Toronto was C$743,993, up
15 percent from the same month in 2011, according to Toronto
Real Estate Board. The average price for a condo was C$343,835,
up 5 percent.  U.S. housing prices plunged by a third between the peak of
July 2006 and November 2011, according to S&P/Case-Shiller
Composite-20 Home Price  Index (SPCS20) . By comparison, Canadian housing
prices rose 32 percent in the same period, according to the
Teranet-National Bank National Composite House  Price Index .  No Bubble  Toronto isn’t facing a bubble because price increases have
been steady, said Ben Myers, executive vice president of
Urbanation, a Toronto-based real-estate research firm.  “We’ve seen the same level of increase in the market year-
over-year in terms of index pricing in 10 of the last 15
years,” Myers said. “If we didn’t have an explosion of the
bubble in those years, I’m not sure what would cause it to
happen now.”  The housing gains have sparked worries that CMHC, Canada’s
federal mortgage agency that insures some mortgages, is becoming
overexposed to a potential slump, leaving taxpayers at risk.  Canadian Mortgage & Housing said Jan. 31 that it’s
rationing  mortgage insurance  for lenders as the housing agency
approaches the C$600 billion legal limit for backstopping the
loans. Lenders have increased their demand for insurance of
their mortgages amid “liquidity needs” since the 2007
financial crisis, CMHC said.  Lenders are becoming “increasingly liberal” with
mortgages that don’t require borrowers to verify income, OSFI
said in the documents obtained by Bloomberg News.  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said that he’s concerned
about loosening of standards by some Canadian financial
institutions on those types of mortgages, and steps are being
taken to “correct” the practice.  Tightening Standards  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  Chief Executive Officer  Edmund Clark 
said in a Feb. 8 interview at Bloomberg’s New York headquarters
that banks are tightening lending on loans for condominiums.
Toronto-Dominion, Royal Bank of Canada and Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce scrapped their promotional 2.99 percent
mortgage rates last week, less than a month after they were
introduced.  “Banks are leaning against it in the condo market right
now and leaning against it in the unsecured lending market and
just a general leaning against borrowing,” Clark said. He said
the changes may lead to a “successful soft landing” for the
housing market.  The government has already taken measures to restrain the
housing market, including reducing amortizations and requiring
stricter criteria for mortgage qualifications. Housing price
gains have  slowed  in the past three months.  Still, housing markets in Vancouver and Toronto have become
“severely unaffordable,” according to a January report by
Demographia, a public policy firm.  Unaffordable  Vancouver’s median home price of C$678,000 in the third
quarter was 10.6 times its median pretax household income of
C$63,800, making the city the least-affordable housing market
after Hong Kong among large English-speaking cities, Demographia
said. Toronto’s home price of C$406,400 was 5.5 times household
income of C$73,600, a 40 percent deterioration in affordability
since 2004.  Fallout from Toronto’s construction boom may not surface
immediately, according to Queen’s University’s Andrew.  “It’s going to be three-and-a-half to four years from now
when these loans are all coming up and you’ve got a number of
people who say they can’t afford to refinance it, so they’ll
just sell,” Andrew said. “They’ll find out that 40 units in
the building all went on the market in the same month, and now
they’ve got a big problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  