-- OSE Declines Comment on Report Shareholders Want New Deal Terms
-- B y   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2012-02-13T04:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/ose-declines-comment-on-report-shareholders-want-new-deal-terms.html
An  Osaka Securities Exchange (8697)  Co.
spokesman declined to comment on a report shareholders want
management to demand better terms for Tokyo Stock Exchange Group
Inc.’s takeover bid.  “The opinions of the shareholders aren’t public and I
can’t comment on anything beyond what’s in the public record,”
said bourse spokesman Masahiro Yada. Shareholders are pushing
for better terms in the deal announced Nov. 22, the Financial
Times reported today, citing investors it didn’t name. The price
is set and won’t be revised, Osaka bourse President  Michio Yoneda , said in an interview with Bloomberg News on Feb. 8.  If the deal’s terms aren’t revised, investors said they may
vote for the removal of OSE directors at the annual meeting of
shareholders in June, a move which might derail the  deal ,
according to the FT.  Tokyo  offered 480,000 yen a share for its smaller rival,
representing a value of 21.6 times estimated earnings, according
to calculations by Bloomberg. That’s below the  valuation  for
Singapore Exchange Ltd., which trades at 25.6 times estimated
earnings, and above ASX Ltd., valued at 15.1 times estimated
earnings.  “Depending on where you stand, there are different ways to
look at this, but I don’t think the terms are going to change
too much,” said  Naoki Fujiwara , chief  fund manager  at Shinkin
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “The price of the takeover bid
was set based on publicly available valuations set by deal
advisors, so it’s probably an appropriate price.”  Osaka Shares  Shares of the  Osaka  Securities Exchange rose 0.4 percent to
454,000 yen as of 1:10 p.m. in Tokyo. The benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average advanced 0.8 percent.  “The terms are what the two companies agreed on,” said
Kazuhiko Yoshimatsu, a spokesman at the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  Fidelity Investments Japan Ltd., London-based Jo Hambro
Capital Management, and Chicago-based Northern Trust Corporation
are among the bourse’s top shareholders, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg News.  “The price was set when the financial markets were at
their worst, but there are no other parties interested in
Osaka,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million
at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo. “The market
has improved from its bottom, but  Japan ’s potential growth is
still slowing.”  Japan’s Fair Trade Commission this month started the second
phase of its review into the merger between Osaka and the 133-
year-old Tokyo Stock Exchange. Deals worth $37 billion have been
proposed between global exchanges in the past 15 months, with
cross-border plans meeting resistance from regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toshiro Hasegawa in
Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 