-- Adele, Kanye Win Grammys at Subdued Show
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-02-13T01:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/houston-s-death-casts-shadow-over-grammys.html
Adele,  Kanye West  and the  Foo Fighters  won multiple Grammy awards as the  music industry 
honored its biggest stars on a night marked by the loss of
singer Whitney Houston.  Adele’s “21” won best pop vocal album and the singer won
best pop solo performance for “Someone Like You” at the 54th
Grammy Awards, telecast by  CBS Corp. (CBS)  today from Los Angeles.
West’s “My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy” was named the top
rap album and the Foo Fighters’ “Wasting Light” best rock
album at the Recording Academy event.  Organizers added  Jennifer Hudson  to the lineup to perform a
tribute to Houston, who died yesterday at 48 in  Beverly Hills .
Houston’s death generated an outpouring from fans and her peers,
and shone an added spotlight on the Grammys.  “We have had a death in our family,” host LL Cool J said
from the stage. “The only thing that feels right is to begin
with a prayer, for a woman who we loved, for our fallen sister,
Whitney Houston.”  West has 7 nominations, most of any artist. Adele, with six
nominations including best album for “21,” will perform for
the first time since throat surgery last year.  “I’m getting real emotional,” Adele said from the stage.
“I should thank my doctors, since they did bring my voice
back.”  Houston’s Death  Bruce Springsteen  and the E Street Band opened the live
show with the single “We Take Care of Our Own,” from the album
“Wrecking Ball,” due out in the U.S. on March 6.  The Beach
Boys , reuniting for a 50th anniversary tour, will perform with
Foster the People and Maroon 5, fellow acts from  Southern
California . Last year’s show drew the most viewers since 2001,
according to data from  Nielsen (NLSN) .  Houston, a natural talent who won six Grammy awards in a
career slowed by drugs and alcohol, was found unresponsive
yesterday afternoon in her room at the Beverly Hilton hotel,
where she was planning to attend the annual pre-Grammys party
held by Clive Davis, the Arista Records founder.  Sales of Houston’s albums soared with her death. “Whitney
- The Greatest Hits” was the top album at Apple Inc.’s ITunes
online store. Two other Houston albums were in the top 10,
according to Nielsen SoundScan.  Houston’s first Grammy came in 1985 for her vocal
performance of “Saving All My Love for You.” She won the same
award in 1987 for “I Wanna Dance With Somebody (Who Loves
Me).” Her soundtrack for the movie “The Bodyguard” and the
album’s single, “I Will Always Love You,” earned her three
Grammys in 1993, including album of the year.  She received a Grammy for best female R&B vocal performance
for “It’s Not Right But It’s Okay” in 1999.  Alternative, Dance  Bon Iver won best alternative music album and Skrillex took
best dance album. The Foo Fighters, the  rock band  formed by
former Nirvana drummer Dave Grohl, also won best hard rock/metal
performance for “White Limo” and best rock song for “Walk.”  West, a previous  winner  of 14 Grammys including best rap
solo performance in 2007 for “Stronger,” also won the best rap
song and best rap/sung collaboration for “All of The Lights.”
“My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy” was distributed by  Vivendi
SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group .  Jay-Z and West won the best rap performance Grammy for
“Otis” from “Watch the Throne.”  The Recording Academy will grant 78 Grammys, down from 109
a year ago.  Jesse Jackson , president and founder of the
Rainbow/PUSH Coalition advocacy group, called on the academy to
revisit its decision because many urban-music categories were
eliminated.  Sales Bump  Albums and tracks by Grammy winners and performers often
spike after the telecast. The day after last year’s show, nine
of the top-10 best selling albums on iTunes were from artists
who had won or performed.  U.S. music sales rose 6.9 percent last year as consumer
purchases of albums increased for the first time since 2004,
propelled by digital downloads, according to Nielsen and
Billboard magazine. Sales of digital albums climbed 19.5
percent, fueled by demand for Adele’s “21,” the year’s best-
selling album with 5.8 million copies sold in all formats.  The Foo Fighters, signed to  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s RCA record label,
and Bruno Mars, who records for Warner Music Group’s Elektra
label, are each up for six Grammys.  Mars is nominated for album, record and song of the year,
as well as best pop solo performance and best pop vocal album.
Record of the year recognizes a track’s artists, engineers and
producers, while song of the year credits songwriters.  The Band Perry, Bon Iver, J. Cole, Nicki Minaj and Skrillex
are nominated in the best new artist category.  Recording artists who released albums between Oct. 1, 2010,
and Sept. 30, 2011, are eligible for the 54th annual Grammys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  