-- Move Climbs on Forecast, Web Search Tools: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   S a m a n t h a   Z e e
-- 2012-02-13T21:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/move-climbs-on-forecast-web-search-tools-san-francisco-mover.html
Move Inc. (MOVE) , an owner of real-estate
websites, rose to the highest since July as a stronger forecast
and a jump in demand for online services signaled transaction
growth in a weak housing market.  Move gained 2.9 percent to $8.99 at the close in Nasdaq
Stock Market  trading . The shares rose 15.2 percent Feb. 10. They
fell 39 percent in 2011.  “There has been a powerful shift in the way consumers
source information with users turning to the Internet, and this
sits really well with real estate,” said  James Dobson , an
analyst at Benchmark Co. in  Boca Raton ,  Florida . “It’s an
industry that works really well with mobile devices and this
bodes well for companies like Move and Zillow.”  Move, led by Steve Berkowitz, who ran  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s MSN
business from 2006 to 2008, has focused on boosting its online
presence. The Campbell, California-based company runs Move.com,
Realtor.com, Moving.com and SeniorHousing.com. The sites link up
renters and buyers with properties.  Zillow Inc (Z) . is an online real estate information service
directed at consumers.  Rental properties were added to Realtor.com last year, as
were search capabilities outside the U.S. Move also expanded its
use of social media as clients use iPads and iPhones to view
property pages.  Users on Move’s main site, Realtor.com, the official
website of the National Association of Realtors, spent more than
2.8 billion minutes on the network, viewing more than 6 million
pages in 2011. The company reported a 400 percent increase
during the past year in the number of leads delivered to
Realtors from its social applications.  ‘In Its Infancy’  “Mobile use is in its infancy, which is why you see these
astronomical growth rates,” Dobson said. “People are out at
the weekend, they are in the street in front of a house and look
up a listing. If they call the Realtor on that listing then
that’s a qualified lead.”  Move last week forecast revenue of between $195 million and
$200 million, up from $191.7 million last year and $197.5
million in 2010. The company, as it seeks to boost business
through online applications and other technology, appointed  John Robinson  as chief technology officer to revamp its online
strategy.  Even with weaker home prices, Move can help real-estate
agents who need support marketing homes in a stagnant economy.  ‘Transaction Pick-Up’  “Home prices may not rise, but companies like Move and
Zillow are hoping for transaction pick-up, which means more
sales, and more commissions,” Dobson said. “It’s the number of
transactions that will benefit them most. So while none of the
companies are looking for a positive year, they are cautious,
and hoping for stability and some upside.”  Zillow and Move “offer investors two different plays on
the market,” Dobson said. He has a buy rating on Zillow.  After a six-year slide in  home prices , demand is showing
signs of strengthening, bolstered by a jobless rate that fell to
8.3 percent last month. The number of Americans who signed
contracts to buy previously owned homes in December held near a
19-month high.  Proposals by President  Barack Obama  earlier this month to
revive the U.S. housing market could supplement more than half a
dozen programs put in place to aid homeowners after the 2008
Financial crisis.  Shares of Seattle-based Zillow rose to their highest since
September, climbing 2 percent to $33.20 on the Nasdaq.  Editors: Jeffrey Taylor, Daniel Taub  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Samantha Zee in  San Francisco  at 
 szee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  