-- How to Manage the 'Crazy Ideas' Conundrum
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S c h r a g e
-- 2012-02-13T14:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/how-to-manage-the-crazy-ideas-conundrum.html
     The most painfully awkward debates I hear in ostensibly
innovative organizations revolve around "crazy ideas." When
unexpected challenges arise, what ideas are acceptably crazy?
Which ideas are too crazy? Which ideas are so crazy that no
one looks at or listens to their champions quite the same way
ever again?  Consequently, top management teams tend to be the
Goldilocks of crazy: They don't want insane, and they don't
need conventional; they want their craziness to be "just
right." Defining those crazy zones is one of the most
difficult but more important cultural decisions innovation
leadership teams can make. Crazy ideas, of course, can be a
source of sustainable competitive advantage.  But where should they come from? What I increasingly
observe are intensifying "make vs. buy/open source vs.
proprietary" conflicts between getting outrageous ideas from
inside the enterprise versus acquiring them from external
eccentrics and lunatics. Crazy ideas create cultural — and
political — quandaries for organizations. Outside-the-box
eccentricities are OK coming from the inside. But truly
"crazy" ideas — ones that tempt fate and taunt taboos — appear
better off and safer coming from the outside. Accessing crazy
ideas may matter more than generating them.  A superb illustration comes from
a Nobel laureate physicist and Secretary of Energy Steve Chu's
decision to put together a crisis team of outside experts to
brainstorm approaches for handling  Japan 's Fukushima nuclear
reactor. A trove of recently released emails indicate that
this outside group had no shortage of crazy ideas. Noted
physicist Richard Garwin (who, not incidentally, was long a
member of the Jasons, the Pentagon's elite "crazy ideas"
advisory group) proposed setting off a controlled shaped
charge to breech the concrete shield protecting the steel
containment structure, so cooling water could be pumped in
from the outside. An internal  Nuclear Regulatory Commission 
scientist described the idea as "madness."  Put aside (for the moment) its technical details. Look
instead at the provocative innovation question it effectively
raises: Does the  Department of Energy /Nuclear Regulatory
Commission want its people coming up with ideas that its own
internal experts declare mad? Or is it smarter —
politically, culturally, and organizationally — to position
those technocracies as skeptical and discriminating consumers
of crazy ideas, instead of their originators?  In short, organizations frequently have both
institutional biases and incentives to avoid developing crazy
ideas. Real craziness is what gets outsourced. It's too risky
to be seen as too crazy.  Of course, as anyone following global trends in
manufacturing, software development, and customer support well
knows, outsourcing dynamics create their own dysfunctional
dependencies. Firms lose the ability to innovatively
manufacture, modify their systems on the fly, and build bonds
with key customers when they overcommit to outsourcing.
Similarly, organizations lose the ability to discriminate
between — and gain insight from — usefully crazy ideas when
they take asylum in outsiders. When organizations aren't
careful, the craziness becomes predictably comfortable and
comfortably predictable. Even worse, some organizations
institutionalize their "crazy" and create a petting zoo of
provocative eccentrics.  IBM, for example, had its "Fellows," who were tasked with
assuring the computer giant would never be blindsided by
technological surprise. The (cruel) joke I was told in T.J.
Watson Labs was that these Fellows had access to everything at
IBM but budgets. The problem with "designated crazies," of
course, is that everyone expects them to live up to their
designation.  Admittedly, a crazy idea — like beauty — is in the eye of
the beholder. And, like obscenity, most executives think they
know it when they see it. But in industry after
industry, seemingly crazy ideas are playing a greater
disruptive role in shaping competition. That's why the
innovative organizations I know struggle with whether they
want "crazy" as a core competence or as an accessibly
outsourced option.  How does your organization manage the craziness
conundrum? Are you a leader in defining the right kinds of
crazy for your enterprise? You'd be crazy not to.  Michael Schrage, a research fellow at MIT Sloan School’s
Center for Digital Business, is the author of Serious Play and
the forthcoming Getting Beyond Ideas. 