-- Gilani Faces Contempt Trial After Pakistan’s Supreme Court Brings Charges
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-02-13T08:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/pakistan-s-gilani-faces-contempt-trial-after-supreme-court-brings-charges.html
Pakistan’s  Supreme Court  charged
Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  with contempt for failing to
reopen corruption investigations against the president, and will
begin a trial that threatens to force him from office.  Hearings were adjourned till Feb. 22, when the prosecution
will record its evidence. Aitzaz Ahsan, Gilani’s lawyer, has
argued that the constitution and international conventions grant
President Asif Ali Zardari immunity, and that as a result the
premier, who today appeared before top judges for the second
time in a month, can’t be held in contempt of court.  “The case is likely to take two weeks from the date of the
next hearing to be concluded,” Nasira Iqbal, a retired
judge said by phone from Lahore. If Gilani complies with the
“court’s orders and then asks for mercy, he may be granted
that. Otherwise, he may be convicted and will have to leave the
job and face the consequences.”  Judges may hand Gilani a six-month term in jail and
disqualify him from holding the National Assembly seat he needs
to remain as premier if he’s found guilty of contempt. The court
Feb. 10 rejected Gilani’s review plea seeking to end contempt
proceedings over his refusal to ask Swiss authorities to pursue
decades-old graft investigations involving Zardari.  Gilani’s indictment, the first time a prime minister has
been charged with contempt of the apex court in  Pakistan ’s
history, intensifies a struggle between the elected government
and senior judges.  Musharraf Amnesty  A separate court probe into claims Zardari sought U.S. help
in May to ward off a feared coup by an army humiliated by the
killing of Osama bin Laden north of Islamabad has slowed as the
key witness refused to travel to Pakistan, citing security
concerns. That case had triggered the biggest confrontation
between civilian and military leaders since the end of army rule
in 2008.  While the court’s pursuit of Gilani is unlikely to trigger
the collapse of his Pakistan People’s Party-led government it
will complicate the party’s strategy for elections to the upper
house of parliament, or senate, expected next month, Eurasia
Group’s Shamila Chaudhary said in an e-mailed analysis Feb. 10.  Judges issued a contempt notice to Gilani on Jan. 16 after
saying he violated his oath of office by failing to re-open
graft probes against Zardari and others that former military
ruler  Pervez Musharraf  suspended in 2007 in an amnesty.  In an interview with  Al Jazeera  broadcast yesterday, Gilani
said charges against Zardari, who has never been found guilty of
corruption by a court, were politically motivated.  Swiss Probes  The Supreme Court in 2009 ordered the government to
formally ask Swiss authorities to revive cases there against
Zardari and his assassinated wife former Prime Minister  Benazir Bhutto .  Bhutto and Zardari collected and laundered bribes totaling
$11.7 million for awarding customs inspection contracts to Swiss
companies in 1994, an investigating magistrate in Geneva
recorded in 2003. The couple were given a six-month suspended
prison sentence the same year by a Swiss judge. That sentence
was canceled by a Swiss tribunal in 2004 after Bhutto appealed.
New bribery charges were then brought, the Swiss newspaper Le
Temps reported.  Zardari has denied all charges against him. Bhutto was
killed at a political rally in 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  