-- Palm-Oil Output May Fall on Oilseed Sowing, Rabobank Says
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-02-13T14:26:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/palm-oil-output-may-fall-on-oilseed-sowing-rabobank-says-1-.html
Palm-oil  production may fall as
farmers reduce the amount of land planted with oilseeds,
Rabobank International said.  Output in Malaysia, the world’s second-biggest producer,
will drop about 5 percent this month to 1.22 million metric
tons, Rabobank said in a report today. U.S. and Chinese farmers
will sow fewer oilseeds because corn is more profitable to grow,
it said. Adverse weather in South America and  India  will curb
global oilseed output and erode inventories of palm oil,
according to the report.  “Reduced global availability of rapeseed and soybeans in
major palm oil-importing countries will further draw down palm-
oil stocks,” Rabobank said. “ China ’s domestic oilseed
production is likely to decline as growing grains is more
profitable for farmers.”  Palm oil gained 5.1 percent in the past six months on the
 Malaysia  Derivatives Exchange, partly as dry weather in South
American threatens soybean output. Consumers will use more palm
oil if soybean and rapeseed oils are unavailable.  Soybean production globally will total 251.5 million tons
and growers will harvest 60.8 million tons of rapeseed, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  has forecast. That’s probably too
high, Rabobank said, pointing to the weather.  “USDA is overestimating global soybean and rapeseed
production, which will reduce the availability of alternative
vegetable oils,” the bank said. “We see further downside risk
to supplies as oilseeds struggle to find additional acreage
during the upcoming North American planting window, which will
increase the shift of end-user demand to palm oil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 