-- Panetta Says He’s ‘Acutely Aware’ of Lockheed F-35 Challenge
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-02-13T21:15:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/panetta-says-he-s-acutely-aware-of-lockheed-f-35-challenge-1-.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  told
lawmakers he is “acutely aware” of the “many challenges” in
production and testing facing  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35
fighter, the military’s costliest weapons program.  Panetta commented in a letter today to leaders of the
Senate Armed Services Committee, who questioned his Jan. 20
decision to lift a yearlong “probation” on the most complex
version of the plane, the Marine Corps’s F-35B short-takeoff and
vertical-landing model.  “I made the decision to lift probation because the F-35B
is now demonstrating development, test and production maturity
comparable to, and not substantively different from, the other
variants” of the jet, Panetta said in the letter obtained
today. “I am acutely aware of the many challenges remaining. My
decision will result in absolutely no reduction in the oversight
and attention given to each of the variants going forward.”  Panetta’s predecessor,  Robert Gates , placed the plane on a
two-year probation in January 2011. The jet needed to
demonstrate greater reliability in testing and show progress
toward identifying solutions to unique problems with the Marine
Corps model’s propulsion system, he said.  The B model is being watched as a bellwether for the $382
billion F-35 program. The Marine Corps plans to buy about 340 of
the aircraft that can take off like a conventional fighter and
land like a helicopter. The Defense Department’s fiscal 2013
budget, released today, proposes buying 41 B models through
2017, including six annually through 2015. Italy also plans to
buy as many as 60 of the jets.  ‘Technical Issues’  “Some additional technical issues have been identified
since probation began, however these are consistent with the
kind of discovery to be expected in a development program,”
Panetta wrote to the Senate committee’s chairman, Democratic
Senator  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , and its top Republican, Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona .  McCain and Levin had asked Panetta to explain what specific
actions Lockheed and the Pentagon had taken before probation was
lifted.  Panetta responded in his six-page letter to the lawmakers’
specific concerns. Progress was being made in identifying issues
with software, lift-fan door actuators and the propulsion
system’s auxiliary air inlet doors, clutch and drive shaft and
bulkhead fatigue cracks, he said.  Tester’s View  Michael Gilmore, the Pentagon’s testing chief, said his
office didn’t participate in the decision to put the aircraft on
probation or to lift it.  “The program has not completed the final re-designs for
all of these deficiencies,” Gilmore said in response to
questions from Bloomberg News.  “A significant amount of flight test and development of
system maturity of the final propulsion system designs remain
before the fleet will be able to use” its short-takeoff and
vertical landing capability in combat situations, Gilmore said.  The B model also will face “difficulty” integrating new
components into the aircraft as it’s being tested, he said.  That’s because “the designs of the new components have to
assure no new, unacceptable deficiencies are created” by adding
weight or changes that affect the aircraft’s structural strength
or durability, according to Gilmore.  The F-35B has only a 230-pound margin between its current
weight and a maximum threshold that Gilmore said “will be a
significant challenge” to avoid breaching.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  