-- Patrizia Immobilien Shares Gain $1.89 Billion LBBW Deal: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-02-14T17:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/patrizia-to-buy-lbbw-s-real-estate-unit-for-eu1-4b.html
A group led by  Patrizia Immobilien
AG (P1Z)  agreed to buy Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg’s real estate
unit for 1.44 billion euros ($1.89 billion) in  Germany ’s biggest
property deal since 2008. Patrizia shares climbed 1.8 percent.  The acquisition of LBBW Immobilien GmbH, which owns 21,000
apartments in Germany, will be completed by the end of March,
LBBW and Patrizia said in separate statements yesterday.
Patrizia is acting as investment and asset manager for a group
of insurance companies and pension funds including  Sweden ’s AP3
fund. Patrizia rose 7 cents to 4.01 euros a share at the close
of Frankfurt trading today, the highest since Oct. 28.  Selling the unit by the end of this year was a European
Union condition for approving LBBW’s 5 billion-euro bailout by
the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg and regional savings banks
during the financial crisis. Other German banks are also selling
real-estate units and assets as they seek to raise capital and
exit less-profitable businesses.  “It’s good for Patrizia,” said Frank Neumann, an analyst
with Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf who  recommends  investors
buy the stock. “Patrizia can generate fees while keeping their
business model stable and not committing too much capital.”  The deal is the largest involving a German real estate
company since IVG Immobilien AG agreed to sell 70 underground
oil and gas storage caverns to a fund backed by institutional
investors for 1.7 billion euros in September 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That excludes the acquisition of
mortgage bank Hypo Real Estate Holding AG by the German state in
2009.  Patrizia Investment  Patrizia said it will probably invest as much as 15 million
euros of equity and provide management and property services to
the buyers and LBBW Immobilien after the transaction is
complete. Patrizia will also invest 25 million euros a year in
service and maintenance, Chief Executive Officer Wolfgang Egger
said in the statement.  The investors are LVM Versicherung and four other German
insurance companies with 40 percent of the company, AP3 and a
Swiss pension fund with about 30 percent, three German pension
funds with about 25 percent, a Baden-Wuerttemberg savings bank
with 3 percent and Patrizia with 2 percent,  LBBW  said.  The apartments are mainly located in the southern German
state of Baden-Wuerttemberg, LBBW said.  “Baden-Wuerttemberg is an attractive real-estate region
with growth prospects and there was also interest in the assets
from outside Germany,” said Neumann.  Executives at  Austria ’s Conwert Immobilien Invest SE and
Immofinanz AG have said they had considered buying the business.  The transaction is subject to the LBBW subsidiaries selling
the business formally accepting the offer and its completion has
to be approved by the Federal Cartel Office, Patrizia said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  