-- Patriot League to Offer Football Scholarships for First Time Starting 2013
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-02-13T21:50:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/patriot-league-to-offer-football-scholarships-for-first-time-starting-2013.html
The  Patriot League , which has the
most-played rivalry in college football, will begin offering
scholarships in the sport beginning with 2013’s incoming class,
the conference’s Council of Presidents announced today.  The league, founded in 1986 on the principles of
“admitting athletes who are academically representative of
their class,” previously allowed need-based financial aid to
athletes in all sports and merit-based scholarships for all
sports except football.  The decision will raise the level of play and strengthen
the conference’s future, Patriot League Executive Director
Carolyn Schlie Femovich said in a news release.  “The introduction of this financial-aid model for
football will strengthen the Patriot League’s ability to compete
for outstanding student-athletes while continuing to uphold the
high academic standards of the league and its member
institutions,” she said.  The league has eight full members and two associate members
for football,  Fordham University  and  Georgetown University . The
football conference, which competes in the  National Collegiate
Athletic Association ’s Football Championship Subdivision, the
sport’s second tier, includes seven teams -- Bucknell
University, Colgate University, Fordham, Georgetown, Lafayette
College, Lehigh University and the College of the  Holy Cross .  Lehigh, of Bethlehem,  Pennsylvania , and Lafayette, of
Easton, Pennsylvania, have played football 147 times, more than
any two college teams, dating back to 1884. Roughly 16,000 fans
came to the 2011 game, when host Lehigh beat Lafayette 37-13.  No financial impact of the change was cited in the
statement from the Center Valley, Pennsylvania-based league or
on a media conference call.  Scholarship Limit  Starting with the 2013 academic year, each school will be
allowed no more than the equivalent of 15 scholarships to
incoming football players, according to the release. The total
number of scholarships can’t exceed 60 in any season.  The league began in 1986 as the football-only Colonial
League. In 1990 it adopted its current name and expanded to 22
sports. In 1996 it voted to allow basketball scholarships and
expanded aid to all sports except football in 2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  