-- Scranton Strains Under Pennsylvania Ruling Cutting Fiscal Repair Measure
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-02-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/pennsylvania-s-scranton-strains-under-ruling-cutting-fiscal-repair-measure.html
Scranton (9664MF)  Mayor Christopher Doherty
is blunt when asked about a court order forcing his Pennsylvania
city to pay about $30 million in wages withheld from police and
firefighters under a state-approved fiscal recovery plan.  “I don’t have the money,” said Doherty, 53. As for the
chance of borrowing the cash, more than half of the city’s
projected general-fund revenue, he added, “there’s no financial
institution that’s going to give me $30 million to pay it.”  The effect of a state  Supreme Court  ruling that put
contract-arbitration awards ahead of fiscal recovery plans under
 Pennsylvania (STOPA1) ’s Act 47 law may reach beyond Doherty’s city of
76,100 by removing a tool for communities in distress. The order
probably will mean higher taxes, said Brian Jensen, whose
nonprofit group counsels local governments. The decision also
underscores the difficulty U.S. cities have in handling mounting
labor costs without resorting to  bankruptcy protection .  “This highlights a real gap between what’s available
under a lot of the state recovery acts such as Act 47, and
Chapter 9,” James J. Holman, a bankruptcy lawyer at Duane
Morris LLP in Philadelphia, said by telephone, referring to U.S.
municipal bankruptcy law.  “If the issue of insolvency relates fundamentally to
collective-bargaining agreements, Chapter 9 has a fairly swift
and fairly effective provision” to resolve those, Holman said.  Bankruptcy Option  Officials in other states have chosen bankruptcy. Robert Flanders, the receiver in charge of  Central Falls , put  Rhode
Island ’s smallest city in bankruptcy after failing to win
concessions from unions last year. In  California , the Bay Area
city of Vallejo emerged from court protection in August, three
years after entering Chapter 9 proceedings to cut labor costs.  Scranton’s Act 47 plan in 2002 barred raises for employees
and capped longevity pay for three years, according to Matt
Domines, a specialist in the state Local Government Services
Center. The city, where 19 percent of residents live in poverty
compared with less than 14 percent nationwide, is 125 miles (200
kilometers) north of Philadelphia.  An arbitrator awarded raises to police and fire unions, and
the dispute ultimately was decided by the high court in October.  “Someone’s going to have to pay that freight,” said
Jensen, the executive director of the  Pennsylvania Economy
League of Southwestern Pennsylvania LLC  in Pittsburgh. “That’s
going to come down to real estate taxes, and they will
escalate.”  Containing Labor Costs  About 40 percent of Pennsylvania residents live in
financially distressed cities, and those entering Act 47 often
seek to contain labor obligations, Jensen said. Such expenses
took 74 percent of Scranton’s 2011 spending, its recovery plan
shows.  Public safety expenses add up. The median cost to U.S.
cities is 52 percent of the budget, according to  Richard Ciccarone , managing director at McDonnell Investment Management
in  Oak Brook ,  Illinois . He keeps data on municipalities.  Pay raises for police and firefighters in Act 47 cities
recently ranged from 2 percent to 8.2 percent, according to
Jensen. By contrast, an arbitrator awarded a 21.5 percent
increase from 2006 to 2010 to police in Bethlehem, which isn’t
under the distressed cities program.  Scranton’s recovery plan won community approval in a 2002
referendum, with 72 percent voting for it, said Domines.  The Supreme Court ruling doesn’t say when workers have to
be given the additional money, said Fred Reddig, the executive
director of the local government center. City, state and union
officials are still working on what the final tab will be.  Broke the Law  Scranton violated collective-bargaining law by withholding
raises, said Thomas W. Jennings, a senior partner at Jennings
Sigmond PC in Philadelphia.  The ruling may compel municipalities to be more
“flexible” on labor costs, said Jennings. He represents police
and firefighter unions in Scranton and other Act 47 cities such
as  Harrisburg (9661MF) , the state capital. He said the decision forces
government officials to develop plans with unions.  Members of one Scranton union, the International
Association of Fire Fighters Local 60, are open to keeping the
taxpayer effects to a minimum through a payment plan, Jack
Gaffney, a vice president, said by telephone.  “We’re willing to sit down and talk about this,” said
Gaffney. “We have a stake in this as well as the taxpayers.”  Doherty said he’s asking lawmakers to prevent arbitration
awards from trumping Act 47 fiscal plans, and include Scranton.
He is also lobbying for the chance to impose local sales taxes.  If Scranton borrows to cover the cost, property taxes would
probably rise 35 percent, Doherty said. Residents of the city,
where about 55 percent own their homes, have a median household
income of about $35,600, 29 percent under the state average,
U.S. Census Bureau  figures  show.  Doherty cut 29 firefighting jobs to deal with this year’s 9
percent increase in personnel costs, driven by the court ruling.  “You just keep going and make it work,” he said. “We
don’t go out of business. We’re cities. I still got to plow
tomorrow if it snows and put the fire out the next day and have
to plan for the new park.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  