-- Petrobras Oil Discovery Makes STX OSV 30% Undervalued: Real M&A
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 2012-02-14T16:43:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/petrobras-225-billion-investment-means-stx-osv-30-undervalued-real-m-a.html
STX OSV Holdings Ltd. (SOH) , the world’s
biggest maker of oil-rig support vessels, may attract a takeover
premium of more than 30 percent as buyers look to profit from
the  Western Hemisphere’s  largest oil discovery in three decades.  South Korea ’s  STX Group  is seeking to sell its  51 percent
stake  in STX OSV as the Singapore-listed builder of  anchor
handlers  and supply ships trades at  3.5 times  earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s cheaper than 97 percent of
marine transportation services companies with market
capitalizations of more than $1 billion, the data show.  STX OSV is building a second shipyard in Brazil, where
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  plans to spend $225 billion to help tap a
possible 50 billion barrels of oil under the Atlantic Ocean.
That may make STX OSV more attractive to  Keppel Corp. (KEP)  and
 Sembcorp Marine Ltd. (SMM) , the largest oil-rig builders, according to
Shinyoung Securities Co. With Singapore’s takeover guidelines
requiring a buyer of a 30 percent stake to bid for the rest of
the company, STX OSV may get an offer valued at $1.86 billion,
36 percent more than yesterday’s level, Citigroup Inc. said.  “Having not just one but two yards in Brazil is what makes
STX OSV all the more attractive because Brazil requires the
vessels and rigs it uses to be built in the country,” said Um Kyung A, an analyst at Shinyoung Securities in  Seoul . “There’s
a very high barrier to getting into the OSV market, so buying
STX OSV will immediately resolve that problem.”  Breaking Ice  Spokesmen for STX Group and STX OSV declined to comment on
the sales process in e-mailed messages. STX Group, which is
selling its stake to repay debt, acquired Alesund, Norway-based
STX OSV through the takeover of Aker Yards ASA in 2009 and
completed an initial public offering of the company’s shares in
 Singapore  in November 2010.  STX OSV surged as much as 9.6 percent in Singapore today to
S$1.595, the  highest level  since its IPO. The shares closed up
 5.8 percent  at S$1.54.  The company  is the world’s largest builder by capacity of
vessels that carry supplies to floating platforms, manage rig
anchors and break ice. STX OSV has  nine shipyards  -- five in
 Norway , two in  Romania  and one each in Brazil and  Vietnam .  With oil trading at about $100 a barrel in  New York  and
existing resources depleting, deep-water oil explorers are
projected to spend a record  $232 billion  on new equipment in the
next five years, according to Canterbury, England-based
researcher Douglas-Westwood.  ‘Harsher Environments’  “Increasingly both national  oil companies  and independent
oil companies will have to move offshore and move to harsher
environments,” said Steve Robertson, director at Douglas-
Westwood. “When you start looking at these large offshore
vessel companies, the big competitors are going to be interested
as well as some private equity firms.”  The largest increase in capital expenditure forecast by
Douglas-Westwood will come from  Latin America , led by Rio de
Janeiro-based Petroleo Brasileiro. Petrobras, as the Brazilian
state oil company is known, is spending more than any major oil
company to develop the largest crude discovery in the Americas
since  Mexico ’s Cantarell field in 1976.  STX OSV has “first-mover advantage” in  Brazil  with 45
percent of the deep-water market, according to Citigroup. The
company’s new shipyard in the country’s northeast is set to
begin building ships in 2013.  Atlantic Ocean’s Floor  Petrobras will need equipment including 568 ships and 95
floating production vessels as it seeks to drill wells that lie
as much as four miles below the Atlantic Ocean’s floor, the
company’s former Chief Executive Officer Jose Sergio Gabrielli
said in November. Petrobras requires ships used to develop
fields off Brazil’s coast to be built in the country.  While Keppel and Sembcorp already have  facilities in
Brazil , STX OSV may also appeal to Korean shipbuilders who, with
no presence in the country, are looking to diversify out of the
market for large ships that haul commodities and  consumer goods ,
according to Kay Lim, an analyst at DNB Bank ASA in Singapore.  “It is not easy to expand capacity in Brazil as there are
restrictions on the amount of land you can get and in acquiring
the permit,” Keppel Chief Executive Officer Choo Chiau Beng
said last month. The Singapore-based company is looking for
opportunities to increase the capacity of its yard in Brazil to
tap orders in the South American nation, Choo said.  Deep-water rigs require more support vessels than those
used in shallow-waters. A semi-submersible rig, used in deep
water and held by anchors weighing more than 10 metric tons,
needs as many as eight support vessels, according to DNB’s Lim.  ‘Pent-Up Demand’  “We may see pent-up demand in the second half,” said Lim,
referring to OSV orders. “If you look at oil discoveries last
year, there have been significant finds in the  North Sea  and in
Brazil they are still in their early cycle.”  STX OSV received orders worth  11.12 billion kroner  ($1.94
billion) for 28 vessels last year, compared with 12.6 billion
kroner the year before, the company said today. More than half
of the new orders signed in the fourth quarter of 2011 were
contracts with  Petrobras Transporte SA , the state  oil company ’s
transportation unit known as Transpetro.  Even after shares of STX OSV rallied  33 percent  this year,
the company is valued at 3.5 times Ebitda, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg that includes net debt. That’s cheaper
than 36 of 37 other marine transportation services companies
with a market capitalization over $1 billion.  STX OSV may still be worth at least S$2 a share in a
takeover, 37 percent more than yesterday’s close, according to
Shinyoung’s Um. “The stock hasn’t fully reflected the company’s
potential in the offshore support vessel industry,” she said.  Relative Value  A “plausible, best-case scenario,” is for another
shipyard to pay as much as S$1.98 a share for full control of
STX OSV, Si Xian Goh, a Singapore-based analyst at Citigroup,
wrote in an e-mailed reply to questions. That’s 20 percent
higher than his  target price  of S$1.65, and would value the
company at 36 percent more than its market capitalization of
S$1.72 billion ($1.37 billion) yesterday.  Keppel, backed by Temasek Holdings Pte, Singapore’s state
investment fund, said last month the offshore market is “hot”
after booking record orders in 2011 and posting fourth-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Singapore-based Sembcorp Marine, created in 1963, last week
won a $793 million contract to build a drill ship for Sete
Brasil Participacoes SA to develop oil and gas fields discovered
around the coast of Brazil.  ‘Various Investments’  On Jan. 18, after STX Group disclosed its plans to sell STX
OSV, both Keppel and Sembcorp said they were “currently” not
making a bid for the stake. In e-mailed responses, Keppel’s
Singapore-based spokeswoman Wong Chai Yueh repeated that
statement, while Sembcorp Marine’s Judy Han referred to it.  “The company reiterates that, in the course of its
business, it will explore various investments and acquisitions
proposals,” according to Keppel’s Wong.  “The company will make the necessary announcements when
appropriate,” wrote Sembcorp’s Han.  STX Group may decide to sell only a portion of its stake
and avoid triggering an offer for the entire company, Chia Jiunyang, a Singapore-based analyst at OCBC Investment Research,
wrote in a note on Feb. 6, referring to Singapore’s guidelines
on large stake purchases in public companies.  “The cash requirement of such a transaction may be too
prohibitive for some interested buyers,” the analyst said.  Still, buyers may be lured by the opportunity to take full
control and extract cost savings from a shipyard that also has
cash reserves, according to DNB Bank’s Lim. STX OSV ended
September with  net cash  of $324 million, the third-highest level
among rival marine transportation services companies worldwide,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The 51 percent will be the key draw,” Lim said. “It
will give them control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Kyunghee Park in  Hong Kong  at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at 
 dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net . 