-- TPG’s GlobeOp Takeover Seen Topped as Carlyle’s SS&C Weighs Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-02-13T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/tpg-s-globeop-takeover-seen-topped-as-carlyle-s-ss-c-weighs-bid-real-m-a.html
Traders are betting TPG Capital’s
agreement to take  GlobeOp Financial Services SA (GO/)  private is
anything but a done deal.  The London-based hedge fund administrator last week ended
21 pence above the 435 pence-a-share offer from TPG, the buyout
firm run by  David Bonderman , after  SS&C Technologies Holdings
Inc. (SSNC) , a U.S. developer of software for financial firms backed by
Carlyle Group LP, said it is weighing a competing bid. The gap
shows arbitragers are anticipating GlobeOp will get the biggest
price increase of any pending takeover in western Europe worth
$500 million or more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While the hedge fund industry had its second-worst year in
2011, JO Hambro Capital Management Ltd. says GlobeOp is poised
to win a greater share of the market for maintaining financial
records from rivals such as State Street Corp. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co., boosting sales and profit that  analysts  project
will reach all-time highs. With TPG’s offer valuing GlobeOp at
3.5 times sales, the industry’s lowest in five years, a bidding
contest with SS&C may push the price to 500 pence a share, Oriel
Securities Ltd. said. That’s 75 percent higher than GlobeOp’s
average before news of a deal emerged last month.  “It’s entirely possible we could see SS&C coming in and
then TPG having to come back and pay more,” Mark Costar, who
oversees about $520 million at JO Hambro Capital in London and
owns GlobeOp stock, said in a telephone interview. “The TPG bid
is opportunistic and significantly undervalues the company.”  Relative Value  GlobeOp could be worth at least 12 times  projected  earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in a
takeover, based on comparable transactions, Costar said. That
would value the company at more than 500 pence a share using
analysts’ 2012 estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Joan Wasylik, a spokeswoman for GlobeOp, declined to
comment on whether the terms of the agreement with TPG
undervalued the company. Gavin Davis, a spokesman for  Fort Worth ,
Texas-based TPG, declined to comment on whether the firm is
considering raising its bid for GlobeOp.  Patrick Pedonti, chief financial officer for SS&C, declined
to comment on whether the Windsor, Connecticut-based company
would make a formal offer for GlobeOp.  “Carlyle is supportive of management,” said  Rosanna
Konarzewski , a spokeswoman for Washington-based private equity
firm Carlyle, which  owns  about 37 percent of SS&C. She declined
to say whether SS&C should buy GlobeOp.  Founded in  2000 , GlobeOp calculates funds’ management and
performance fees and determines monthly net asset values for
hedge fund clients and other asset managers that oversee a total
of $173 billion, according to the company’s  website .  Shareholder Returns  On Feb. 1, TPG said it agreed to acquire GlobeOp for 508
million pounds ($800 million). The deal was announced less than
a month after GlobeOp said it had started a review to determine
whether shareholders would benefit from the sale of the company.  At 435 pence a share, the all-cash offer is 52 percent
higher than GlobeOp’s  average price  of 285.44 pence in the 20
days before the company said Jan. 5 that it was in talks with
TPG on a potential sale, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  GlobeOp jumped 21 percent to 430.5 pence a share on the day
of TPG’s announcement. The stock then surged above the deal
offer after SS&C said Feb. 5 that it has been conducting due
diligence on GlobeOp since Jan. 14.  The company ended at 456 pence last week, the highest price
since selling shares in its initial public offering in 2007,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The stock is also 4.8 percent above TPG’s offer price,
indicating traders who profit from mergers and acquisitions are
betting on a higher bid, the data show.  Top Rated  SS&C, which Carlyle took public in March 2010 after buying
the company in a  leveraged buyout  in 2005, could profit from
buying GlobeOp, which has technology that is helping increase
sales in the market for fund-administration services as the
hedge fund industry recovers, JO Hambro’s Costar said.  Investors may add about $80 billion of new capital to hedge
funds globally this year, the most since 2007, Barclays Plc of
 London  said last month. That may help bolster demand for
services provided by GlobeOp, rated one of the best hedge fund
administrators in a survey by  Global Custodian  last year.  Having more funds under administration will boost GlobeOp’s
profitability because most of the company’s costs are fixed,
letting it reap higher returns, according to Keith Baird, a
London-based analyst at Oriel Securities.  GlobeOp’s profit margin will rise to 19.6 percent this year,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg, an
almost fivefold jump from 2007. Sales at SS&C, which agreed to
buy Irish accounting firm BDO’s fund administration unit in
August, would also increase more than 50 percent with GlobeOp.  Hedge Fund Assets  “What happens is that as the hedge fund industry grows,
their clients grow in size, they get new clients, the positive
returns of those funds roll up and the whole thing expands,”
Baird said in a telephone interview. SS&C “can get  synergies 
out of it, so shareholders could benefit from that,” he said.  Still, SS&C has yet to make a formal bid, and investors
that own more than 40 percent of GlobeOp’s shares plan to accept
TPG’s offer, according to a Feb. 1 statement.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index, the benchmark gauge for the
region’s common equity,  slumped  as much as 22 percent last year
and concern stocks may fall further could prompt more investors
to settle for TPG’s proposal, according to Christopher Olson,
who helps manages about $30 billion at Columbia Wanger Asset
Management in  Chicago .  “I would expect people to sell at this price,” he said in
a telephone interview. “I don’t think in this market you
necessarily look a gift horse in the mouth.”  Opening the Door  Olson said his firm is still considering whether to tender
its GlobeOp shares to TPG.  Aviva Investors’ Toby Belsom, who also holds shares of
GlobeOp, says that TPG’s bid undervalues the company’s growth
prospects, leaving the door open for SS&C to sway  shareholders 
with a higher price. Based on the agreement with TPG, the
company is valued at a 57 percent discount to the median revenue
multiple of 8.1 times for comparable deals valued at more than
$500 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Certainly, we’re disappointed in the initial offer,”
Belsom, who helps oversee about $945 million at Aviva in London,
said in a telephone interview. “It’s likely that SS&C creates a
competing bid situation that drives the price  significantly
higher  than the current offer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 