-- Philadelphia Gas Works Sale May Bring City $496 Million Gain, Lazard Says
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-02-14T18:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/philadelphia-gas-works-value-may-exceed-1-4-billion-in-sale-lazard-says.html
Philadelphia should sell its gas
utility, the largest municipally owned system in the U.S., to
reduce the city’s financial risk,  Lazard (LAZ)  Ltd. said in a report.  The city may gain as much as $496 million from a sale,
after accounting for costs tied to the utility, Lazard said in
the study released yesterday. It placed the 176-year-old
Philadelphia Gas Works Co.’s potential value to a buyer at $1.4
billion to more than $2 billion, depending on what is included.  “We are surely at the beginning of a tremendously
complicated process,” Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter said
yesterday at a briefing for reporters at  City Hall . “One that
will strengthen city government on the behalf of the taxpayers
while at the same time provide a bright future for ratepayers.”  A sale would remove operational and financial risks for the
city while maintaining services to customers, who already pay
among the state’s highest rates, Lazard said. The utility serves
more than 500,000 accounts, the most of any government-owned
system, according to the American Public Gas Association in
 Washington . Philadelphia is the fifth-most-populous U.S. city.  “It could be a crown jewel in someone’s system,” said
James H. Cawley, a member of the state Public Utility
Commission, which regulates the gasworks.  Improvements Needed  “You would have to make improvements, but utilities take
the long-term view,” Cawley said before the report was
released. The gasworks has about $1.2 billion in rated bonds
outstanding, as well as about $225.5 million in variable-rate
obligations, Moody’s Investors Service said in an August report.
It is the oldest municipally owned system in the U.S., according
to the gas-industry group.  Infrastructure investment funds and companies serving other
parts of  Pennsylvania  and  New Jersey  may be potential bidders,
 Paul Patterson , an industry analyst in  New York  with Glenrock
Associates LLC, said today by telephone. Nearby utilities could
reduce costs through sharing systems and employees with the
municipal gasworks, he said.  Exelon Corp., based in  Chicago , might be able to boost the
city system’s rate of return while expanding its Peco Energy Co.
subsidiary, Patterson said. Also known as PECO, the
Philadelphia-based company is the state’s largest utility, with
1.6 million electric and 490,000 gas customers, according to its
website. An Exelon spokesman wasn’t immediately available for
comment.  Long-Term Liabilities  The Philadelphia Gas Works’ retirement plan had about 83
percent of the money needed to cover projected obligations, up
from 68 percent in 2009, Moody’s said in the August report. It
also lacked about $636 million of the money needed to cover
other future post-employment benefits, Moody’s said.  By covering pension-related liabilities, the city may raise
the system’s value to as much as $2.15 billion, Lazard said in
the study. The city’s potential gain also may be limited if
those costs are retained, Lazard said, putting the potential
city gain as low as $146 million.  Nutter said a buyer would be required to maintain services
for low-income and older residents; honor employee contracts,
and keep rates frozen through August 2016. Selling the system
may eliminate the need for a 2016 rate increase, Lazard said.  One in four Philadelphia residents lives below the federal
poverty level, compared with 14 percent nationwide,  according  to
U.S. Census Bureau data. The gas utility’s services to a large
disadvantaged population result in higher rates than competitors
such as PECO, Moody’s said.  Removing Financial Risk  Selling the system would remove associated financial risk,
said Rebecca Rhynhart, the city budget director. While a $45
million Philadelphia loan was repaid in 2008, there’s no
flexibility to do that again, she told reporters.  From 2004 through 2010, the city refunded the system’s
annual $18 million municipal payment. It kept the money last
year. The Lazard study counted the loss of the payment against
any gain from selling.  A sale would help the city by letting it concentrate on
vital services, said Alan Schankel, director of fixed-income
research at Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia.  “It’s important to focus on government’s main functions
and when you deviate from that, it can create problems,” he
said today. A protracted sale process will mitigate immediate
effects on the city’s debt, he said.  Bond Trade  A Philadelphia bond maturing in 2020 traded today at a
yield of 2.7 percent, down from 2.82 percent on Feb. 7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond is rated Aa3
by Moody’s, its fourth-highest investment grade. A Bloomberg
Fair Value index of top-rated 10-year municipal bonds rose to
1.87 percent from 1.77 percent over the same period.  Proposals from advisers seeking to guide the process will
be sought next month, Nutter said. The city may use any proceeds
to offset longer-term obligations such as pensions, he said.  Selling the system would require City Council and state
commission approvals, he said, and may take two years.  The gasworks’ debt load, which is higher than for a typical
system, has hindered past attempts at a sale or lease, said John Medina, a Moody’s analyst, before the Lazard study was released.
The New York-based company rates most of the system’s credit
Baa2, the second-lowest investment grade.  Lazard, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , is the largest
independent merger adviser.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  