-- Portsmouth Seeks Bankruptcy Protection Again, Official Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-02-13T15:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/portsmouth-seeks-bankruptcy-protection-again-official-says.html
English soccer club Portsmouth will
lodge a petition today to enter  bankruptcy protection  for the
second time in two years to pay its players and creditors, its
administrators said today.  The team has been run by accountants UHY Hacker Young since
parent Convers Sports Initiatives Plc entered administration, a
form of bankruptcy protection, on Nov. 29. CSI, a U.K.-based
investment vehicle used by former owner  Vladimir Antonov  to buy
Portsmouth, defaulted on an interest payment to former owner
Balram Chainrai.  Creditors include electricity suppliers that have
threatened to cut the team off, UHY’s Peter Kubik said in an
interview.  It may take “a few days” for the courts to formally
accept Portsmouth’s move into administration, Kubik said today.
Portsmouth’s accounts were frozen earlier last month by tax
officials, leaving players and coaching staff unpaid.  “During the last week it’s been very difficult to trade,”
Kubik said. “Administration would allow us to get the bank
account unfrozen and pay the electricity board, who’ve
constantly been threatening to cut us off.”  Antonov is fighting extradition to  Lithuania  where he and a
business partner are facing fraud and embezzlement charges
linked to about $1.6 billion missing from banks he controlled
there and in  Latvia .  Portsmouth has unsuccessfully been searching for its fifth
owner in less than two years. It was demoted to the Championship
in May 2010 after becoming the first Premier League team to go
into administration. The club will face a 10-point deduction for
entering administration.  The move may tempt potential buyers to take the club at a
discount, Kubik said. He said Chainrai, who deferred payment for
the club following its 17 million pound ($27 million) sale,
would be lucky to get some of his money back. Chainrai agreed to
CSI’s request to defer the payment for the club for two years
and imposed an interest rate of about 8 percent on the new
owners. Antonov is another creditor. He’s loaned the team 10.2
million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  