-- Private Equity Tax Break ‘Indefensible,’ Calpers’ Dear Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-02-13T21:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/private-equity-managers-tax-treatment-is-indefensible-calpers-cfo-says.html
The  tax rate  paid by private equity
managers on much of their income, less than half that for
ordinary wage earners, is an “indefensible” tax break, the
chief investment officer of the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System  said.  Calpers, as the pension fund is known, is one of the
largest investors in private equity with about $50 billion as of
June 30. The fund, the largest public pension in the U.S., has
$234 billion of assets under management.  “General partners should recognize that tax treatment of
their income has become indefensible,” said  Joe Dear , the
fund’s chief investment officer, at a meeting of Calpers’ board
today in  Sacramento .  Private equity managers’ carried interest is taxed at the
15 percent rate for  capital gains , rather than the 35 percent
top rate that applies to regular income. U.S. public and private
pensions provide 42 percent of the capital for all private
equity investments, according to the Private Equity Growth
Capital Council in  Washington .  “The tax treatment is incomprehensible to ordinary
taxpayers and citizens,” Dear said in an interview.
“Ultimately private equity depends upon a public policy
environment which encourages and fosters their investment style.
If people come to believe that private equity general partners
are reaping giant returns while paying less in taxes than wage
earners do, their support for those policies that enable private
equity to work will be withdrawn.”  ‘Gross Unfairness’  Mitt Romney’s campaign for the Republican presidential
nomination has put a spotlight on the industry, including
Romney’s former firm, Boston-based Bain Capital LLC. President
 Barack Obama ’s budget proposal today reiterates his proposal to
tax carried-interest income earned by hedge fund managers and
private equity partners at ordinary income rates, raising $13
billion over a decade.  Private equity firms typically charge about 1.5 percent of
assets to cover their expenses, and 20 percent of the profits
from investments as compensation, or carried interest.  Under pressure from rivals, Romney, whose wealth is
estimated at between $190 million and $250 million by his
campaign, last month disclosed tax returns showing he paid a
13.9 percent tax rate in 2010 on income of $21.6 million.  “The private equity industry can use logical argument all
day long,” Dear said. “It does not diminish the gross
unfairness that people perceive. That some of the wealthiest and
most prosperous people in this county pay a lower tax rate on
their income than wage earners.”  U.S. Representative  Sander Levin  of  Michigan , the top
Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, said on Jan. 18
that he plans to reintroduce legislation that would tax carried
interest at ordinary income rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  