-- Puerto Rico Authority Plans Biggest Muni Sale of 2012
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-02-14T15:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/puerto-rico-authority-with-rating-near-junk-plans-biggest-muni-sale-of-12.html
(Corrects spelling of Otero starting in second paragraph in
story published Feb. 13.)  The  Puerto Rico  Aqueduct and Sewer
Authority, which carries the lowest investment grade by  Standard
& Poor’s , plans to issue $1.25 billion in tax-exempt revenue
bonds tomorrow in the year’s biggest muni sale.  The authority, which provides water to 1.2 million
households in the U.S. territory, will also issue about $350
million of taxable debt to island residents, Jose Otero, vice
president of financing at the Government Development Bank for
Puerto Rico, said in a telephone interview. The bank is the
authority’s fiscal agent.  The tax-exempt portion will be the largest offering in
2012, eclipsing $1 billion deals by the Government Development
Bank and  Washington (STOWA1)  state, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “This is the big liquid deal of the year so far,” said
Mark Paris, a New York-based senior portfolio manager for
Invesco Ltd., which owns $5 million of the authority’s bonds.
“You’re going to see people be a little bit more willing on the
credit side to invest in this.”  S&P rates the bonds BBB-, one level above so-called junk
status, citing the authority’s unwillingness to raise rates and
its deferred capital needs, according to a report.  5 Percent Range  Yields on the 25-year-and-longer portion of the sale will
be in the low 5 percent range, said Paris, who manages the
 Invesco Van Kampen High Yield Municipal Fund. (ACTHX)  That’s high enough
to interest funds that manage speculative-grade debt, he said.
Revenue bonds with an average rating of BBB maturing in 25 years
yield 6.6 percent, according to a  Bloomberg Fair Value (635M25Y)  index.  Puerto Rico debt has returned 3.61 percent this year, the
most of any U.S. state or territory and more than the total
market, general obligations and revenue bonds, according to
Barclays Capital Indexes tracking prices and interest income.  Proceeds of the sale will be used primarily to refinance
lines of credit extended by the Government Development Bank,
according to a preliminary official statement. The authority may
also fund the capital-improvement needs for the next fiscal
year, Otero said.  The deal may be increased, Otero said. “We have more
capacity than $1.25 billion if investors have the appetite,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  