-- Rand Appreciates First Time in Three Days as Risky Assets Rally on Greece
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 2012-02-13T14:53:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/rand-leads-emerging-rally-on-greece-austerity-vote-higher-commodities.html
The rand strengthened for the first
time in three days as stocks and commodity prices gained after
the Greek parliament approved austerity measures to secure an
international bailout, boosting demand for riskier assets.  South Africa ’s currency appreciated 0.7 percent to 7.6992
per dollar as of 4:37 p.m. in Johannesburg. Against the euro, it
gained 0.4 percent to 10.1903.  Passage of Greece’s austerity bill will help the country
prevent a default and allow it to remain part of the euro area,
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  told parliament, shifting the
spotlight to a meeting of euro-area finance ministers who must
decide whether to approve the rescue. The euro, which pays for
about 30 percent of South Africa’s exports, approached to a two-
month high against the dollar. The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index 
of raw materials gained as South Africa’s benchmark stock  index 
rallied, led by commodity exports including Anglo American PLc
and BHP Billiton Ltd.  “With the crisis in  Greece  simmering down, the euro has
rallied strongly this morning, pulling the rand along with it,”
 Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  analysts Nomvuyo Guma and Tebogo Mosepele said in an e-mailed note today. “The positive
sentiment all round could see the rand strengthen further into
the week.”  The rand also rallied after Central Bank Governor  Gill Marcus  apologized for “confusing” markets on Feb 10 with a
statement that she was planning a joint announcement “of
national importance” with President  Jacob Zuma  and Finance
Minister  Pravin Gordhan , fueling speculation that helped drive
the rand down as much as 2.6 percent.  Mandela on Notes  The nation’s new bank notes will bear the image of former
president  Nelson Mandela , Zuma and Marcus announced on Feb. 11.  “When the three pillars of economic policy issue a joint
statement to inform markets that there will be an announcement
of national importance, imaginations can run wild, and they
did,” George Glynos, an economist at Johannesburg-based ETM
Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments today. “The net result is
that the rand weakened significantly further than other
emerging-market currencies. The bulk of that South Africa-
related weakness is now back out of the price.”  South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 gained for the
first time in seven days, driving the yield down six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 7.82 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net 
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  