-- Debelle Defends RBA’s Ability to Manage Economy With Rate as Banks Split
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-13T23:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/rba-s-debelle-says-ecb-loan-plan-stabilizes-region-uncertainty-may-linger.html
Australia ’s central bank said it 
still holds sway over the nation’s economic cycle, downplaying 
suggestions that domestic lenders are blunting policy makers’ 
influence.  The RBA a week ago left its benchmark  interest rate  at 4.25
percent, defying the predictions of 24 of 27 economists for a
third straight quarter percentage-point cut. Australia’s four
largest lenders boosted  mortgage rates  anyway, citing higher
funding costs that are narrowing their  margins .  “I don’t think that changes the effect of monetary policy
on the economy much at all,” Assistant Governor  Guy Debelle , who 
oversees financial markets, said in response to questions at a 
Bloomberg conference in Sydney today. “When we move interest 
rates, it’s still going to have some impact on lending rates.”  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  increased the interest on a
variable rate home loan by 10 basis points to 7.41 percent
yesterday, followed by  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , which added
9 basis points to 7.31 percent.  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  boosted
the cost by 10 basis points to 7.46 percent on Feb. 10, after
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd . added 6 basis points
to 7.36 percent. ANZ Bank and Westpac cited higher debt premiums
and competition for deposits.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  condemned the banks’ actions, urging
customers to shop around for better rates.  Foreign Purchases  Debelle said in his speech that a surge in international
holdings of Australian government bonds, equal to more than 3
percent of gross domestic product over the first three quarters
of 2011, has propelled the nation’s currency and pushed yields
down to half-century lows.  “The Australian dollar is close to its recent highs
despite the terms of trade declining from their peak in the
September quarter,” Debelle said in the speech.  The local currency has risen about 5 percent this year and
reached a six-month high of $1.0845 last week after the RBA
unexpectedly kept rates unchanged at its Feb. 7 meeting.  Demand for Australian resources and rates that were higher
than any other major developed nation spurred the Australian
dollar to $1.1081 on July 27, the highest level since it was
freely floated in 1983.  In response to questions, Debelle said the appreciation of
the currency “is a tightening in conditions, which was taken
into account in the board’s deliberations.”  Rate Forecasts  Questioned on the difficulty in predicting the central
bank’s intentions on borrowing costs, after only three
economists correctly forecast no rate change last week, Debelle
said he wasn’t sure if the RBA was hard to read.  When economists get “two months to think about things
that’s dangerous, rather than four weeks,” he said, referring
to a January break from monthly policy meetings. “What matters
is the general direction on rates. What we’re doing is setting
rates which are appropriate for the economy as a whole not
what’s appropriate for bond-market position holding.”  Debelle’s prepared remarks were focused on the fallout of
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis on Australia. He said European
policy makers’ introduction of a long-term refinancing operation
has stabilized the region’s financial system, though uncertainty
is likely to persist.  “There have been outbreaks of optimism over the past
couple of years which were dashed,” Debelle said. “I think the
only thing which is certain, is that uncertainty is likely to
persist for some time to come.”  ECB Liquidity  The  European Central Bank  is flooding the banking system
with cheap money in a bid to avert a credit crunch after the
market for unsecured bank debt seized up last year and funding
from U.S. money markets disappeared. Any bank in the region can
borrow an unlimited amount, provided it pledges eligible
collateral.  Debelle, 45, said “a sizable share” of recent buying of
Australian  government bonds  appears to have come from sovereign
asset managers, spurring the nation’s currency toward a record.  He said that while fallout in Australia from Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis has been limited, it’s being felt in
investors demanding “much higher compensation” for bank credit
risk than they were in mid-2011.  “This global repricing of bank debt has clearly affected
the Australian banks’ wholesale funding costs,” he said.  More than two years after the debt crisis emerged in
 Greece , European leaders face international pressure to do more
to tackle the source of contagion that threatens to drag down
the global economy. Group of 20 nations have signaled they won’t
reach a consensus on crisis aid for Europe via the  International
Monetary Fund  at a Feb. 24-26 meeting of G-20 finance chiefs
until Europe increases the size of its firewall.  Debelle said there was the prospect of more relief on the
issue of sovereign debt on the horizon.  “The ECB will conduct another 3-year operation at the end
of the month,” he said. “There is some possibility that banks
will use that operation to fund increased purchases of sovereign
debt and earn the large carry on offer, which might help
alleviate the sovereign pressures for a time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  