-- U.S. 10-Year Break-Evens Rise on Greek Austerity Vote, Risk-Asset Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-13T22:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/treasuries-halt-advance-as-greece-s-parliament-approves-austerity-measures.html
The difference between yields on
U.S. 10-year notes and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities
reached the highest since August amid optimism that  Europe ’s
debt crisis is improving, boosting investor demand for risk.  Treasuries (YCGT0025)  10-year note yields traded above 2 percent for a
fourth day before fluctuating, amid lingering questions on
whether finance chiefs will succeed in pulling Greece back from
the brink when they meet in two days after Greek lawmakers
approved austerity measures, prompting riots in  Athens . Stocks
and commodities advanced. Treasury 30-year bond yields briefly
fell as the  Federal Reserve  bought $1.8 billion in longer-term
securities.  “We’ve been in a general risk-on atmosphere and that has
put a lot of steam in break-evens, which have been on a one-way
move this year,” said Aaron Kohli, an interest-rate strategist
BNP Paribas in  New York , one of 21 primary dealers that trade
with the Fed. “Positive news of out Europe aids the move, and
inflation expectations should continue to rise as the
fundamentals point to even higher break-evens.”  The difference between yields on 10-year TIPS and
comparable Treasuries, a gauge of trader expectations for
consumer prices during the life of the debt known as the break-
even rate, was 2.23 percentage points 5:05 p.m. in New York. It
reached 2.25 percentage points, the most since Aug. 15.  Yield Swings  Yields on 10-year notes were little changed at 1.97 percent
in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2
percent securities maturing in February 2022 traded at 100 7/32.
The yield fell to as low as 1.96 percent and traded as high as
2.03 percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 0.7 percent and
the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials added
0.6 percent.  The Treasury’s lengthening of the average maturity of  U.S.
debt  may help shore up its  credit quality  and depress bond
yields amid contained inflation, according to Steve Lear of J.P.
Morgan Asset Management. U.S. debt securities are due in 62.8
months on average, the longest since 2002 and up from a low of
49 months in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The risk of a Treasury-yield rise comes less from
inflation and more from the potential for investors to attach a
credit premium to Treasury bonds,” Lear, deputy chief
investment officer of fixed income in New York at the unit of
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said Feb. 10 in a telephone interview.  Bearish Survey  Investors in a weekly survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP, a unit
of the world’s largest interdealer broker, maintained their
bearish stance on Treasuries. Ried’s index on the market outlook
through June slid to 44 for the week ended Feb. 10 from 45 the
previous week. A figure below 50 shows investors expect  U.S.
government debt  to decline.  U.S. government bonds have lost 0.7 percent in February,
following a 9.8 percent gain in 2011, according to a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index.  The Greek parliament’s backing “is a crucial step forward
toward the adoption of the second program,” EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in
Brussels today. “I’m confident that the other conditions,
including for instance the identification of the concrete
measures of 325 million euros ($430 billion), will be completed
by the next meeting” of finance ministers.  Greek Talks  “The only thing that can temper Treasuries is a lack of
drama out of Europe, but we are getting plenty of drama,” said
Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $12 billion in fixed-
income assets. “The  Greece  situation is weird because  capital
markets  are focused on the austerity while the Greek population
is focused on what the plan will mean for employment. Both are
fraught with pain.”  Greek police said as many as 45 buildings and shops were
set on fire and 67 people arrested during street protests
against austerity measures in central Athens yesterday and
overnight.  The Fed purchased Treasuries due from 2036 to 2041 today
as part of a plan announced in September to replace $400 billion
of shorter maturities in its holdings with longer-term debt to
cap borrowing costs.  “There are still buybacks, which is helping the
Treasuries, and the  bond market  has been less convinced than the
stock market in the recovery and more convinced that the Fed
will stay accommodative and that inflation will stay in check,”
said  Dan Greenhaus , chief global strategist at BTIG LLC in New
York.  Sales at U.S. retailers gained 0.8 percent last month after
a 0.1 percent increase in December, according to the median
forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before the
Commerce Department report tomorrow. Labor Department data on
Feb. 3 showed the jobless rate unexpectedly fell in January to
8.3 percent, the lowest since February 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  