-- Republicans Offer to Extend Payroll-Tax Cut May Shift Blame to Democrats
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-02-14T16:28:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/republicans-make-offer-to-extend-payroll-tax-cut-aides-say.html
U.S. House Republican leaders
offered to vote this week to extend a  payroll-tax  cut through
2012 in an attempt to shift blame to Democrats if they balk and
Americans’ take-home pay shrinks next month.  Republican leaders yesterday dropped their demand for
spending cuts to offset the $94 billion cost of continuing the
 payroll tax  cut through the rest of 2012. They proposed passing
the tax cut while continuing to negotiate on long-term federal
unemployment benefits and a measure to prevent a 27 percent cut
in Medicare reimbursements to doctors. All three provisions are
set to expire Feb. 29.  The Republicans’ move focused attention on unresolved
negotiations over the expanded jobless benefits. The chief
Democratic negotiator, Senate Finance Committee Chairman  Max Baucus  of Montana, said today his party would fight to make sure
that neither jobless benefits nor the payroll tax cut expires.  “We can’t let that happen to working families in our
economy,” Baucus said at a committee hearing this morning.  President  Barack Obama  held an event on the White House
grounds today seeking to pressure Congress to act quickly on the
payroll tax cut and additional  unemployment insurance . He said
that with the recovery still fragile, lawmakers “shouldn’t hike
taxes on working Americans.”  Obama said while there are “hopeful signs” that lawmakers
are moving closer to an agreement, “you can’t take anything for
granted in Washington.”  Initial Rejection  In late December, House Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  under
political pressure accepted a two-month extension of those
measures and the Medicare provision to allow time for talks on
how to continue them through 2012. Boehner’s Republican rank and
file at first had rejected a similar plan.  Democratic Representative  Chris Van Hollen  objected that
separating the payroll  tax cut  from the other two proposals
“would leave millions of Americans who are out of work through
no fault of their own hanging” and would leave Medicare
patients “in the lurch.”  “That’s why these three things were dealt with as one
package the first time around, and they should stay together in
the next round,” Van Hollen of  Maryland  told reporters.  Republican strategist Ron Bonjean, who was the chief
spokesman for former Speaker Dennis Hastert of Illinois, said
yesterday it would be better for the party to pass the payroll
tax cut, and “get this behind them and fight another day than
it is to continue this debate, which Republicans lost in
December.”  Senate Democrats  Bonjean said passage of the House measure would pressure
the Democratic-controlled Senate to approve the tax-cut
extension or face being blamed by voters for allowing the
payroll tax to increase by 2 percentage points in March.  “If it stalls in the Senate, that’s where the blame will
lie if taxes will go up,” Bonjean said.  House Republican leaders, who earlier had insisted on
financing the payroll-tax cut with spending reductions, said in
a joint statement yesterday that simply extending the measure
“is not our first choice.”  “Our goal is to reach a responsible agreement” on the
package, said the joint statement by Boehner, Majority Leader
 Eric Cantor  of  Virginia  and Kevin McCarthy of  California . “But
in the face of the Democrats’ stonewalling and obstructionism,
we are prepared to act to protect small businesses and our
economy from the consequences of  Washington  Democrats’ political
games.”  Streamlined Vote  To raise the stakes for Democrats even higher, Republican
leaders signaled in a  notice  to lawmakers that the House may
consider the payroll-tax extension under streamlined procedures
requiring a two-thirds vote for passage. Democrats would risk
being blamed for killing the extension if they withhold support.  Support of all 242 Republicans isn’t guaranteed. The House
has 87 new Republicans elected in 2010, many with Tea Party
support. The party’s leaders must be sure of their vote count
before putting the measure on the floor because significant
rank-and-file opposition “would step all over their
narrative,” said Brian Gardner, senior vice president for
Washington research at KBW Inc.  Republican leaders might have trouble gaining support from
Tea-Party backed lawmakers. Senator  Rand Paul , a  Kentucky 
Republican who has criticized the payroll tax break because it
would reduce funding for Social Security, said not paying for it
makes the provision an “even worse idea.”  ‘Feel Trapped’  “I just don’t think it’s a good idea, particularly not to
pay for it,” Paul told reporters yesterday. The House
Republican leaders “feel trapped,” he said. “The president’s
beating them up saying they don’t want to do anything and
they’re just obstructing things.”  Republicans, who have expressed a resolve to extend the
payroll tax through the rest of the year, may be more unified
this time. The leadership statement indicates “that all or most
of the conference is going to go for this,’ Bonjean said.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
in an interview he was reviewing the Republican proposal and
that it moved negotiations closer to an agreement.  Senate Republican Leader  Mitch McConnell , asked by
reporters whether he supported a payroll tax extension without
offsetting spending cuts, said, “I’m in favor of extending the
payroll tax holiday.”  “How to do that is a matter under discussion,” said
McConnell of Kentucky.  $94 Billion  Obama’s 2013 budget released yesterday estimated it would
cost $94 billion to extend the payroll tax through the rest of
2012.  Republicans also have sought new restrictions on who can
receive jobless benefits, including allowing states to drug-test
beneficiaries and require them to get a high school equivalency
degree if they don’t have a diploma.  Extending the  unemployment benefits  through the end of the
year would cost from $30 billion to more than $40 billion,
depending on the duration of jobless pay in states hardest hit
by the economic downturn. Unemployed people in those states can
receive benefits for as many as 99 weeks, while Republicans have
sought to cut the maximum to 59 weeks.  Some Democratic negotiators, such as Senator  Ben Cardin  of
Maryland, have said unemployment benefits are emergency
provisions and shouldn’t have to be financed elsewhere in the
budget. Others, including Van Hollen, have said they are open to
paying for an extension by raising taxes for oil-and-gas
companies or changing the tax treatment of carried-interest
compensation paid to private equity managers.  Senator  John Barrasso , a Wyoming Republican and a member of
the Senate-House negotiating committee on the payroll tax cut,
accused Reid of “trying to pull the rug out of any successful
completion of this effort.”  Republican negotiators “are continuing to look for ways to
pay for all parts” of the plan, including the payroll tax cut
extension, Barrasso said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  