-- Romanian Inflation Rate Drops to Record Low on Food Prices
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-02-13T08:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/romanian-inflation-rate-declines-to-new-low-on-food-prices.html
Romania’s  inflation  rate dropped
faster than economists estimated to a new post-communism low in
January, as faltering economic growth and a bumper 2011 harvest
limited price increases.  The annual rate fell to 2.7 percent from 3.1 percent in
December, the  National Statistics Institute  in Bucharest said
today by e-mail. The median estimate of 14 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a 3 percent rate. Prices advanced 0.4
percent from the previous month.  Policy makers have cut the  benchmark interest rate  three
times since November to a record-low 5.5 percent to buoy the
economy as inflation slows and Europe grapples with a debt
crisis. Rates are being lowered “in small steps to keep from
harming the equilibrium,” Governor Mugur Isarescu said Feb. 7.  “Even though we expect inflation to hit new record lows in
the first half of this year, which is in line with the central
bank’s view, it is worthwhile reiterating that a further
slowdown of inflation will mainly be the result of a favorable
base effect in the first half while the monthly rates of
inflation could be elevated,” Erste Group Bank AG analysts said
in a note to clients today.  The Romanian leu was almost unchanged at 4.3460 per euro as
of 10:41 a.m. in Bucharest, while the Bucharest Stock Exchange’s
benchmark BET Index rose 0.8 percent to 5,090.37 points.  Price Targeting  The central bank is targeting price growth of 2 percent to
4 percent. It raised its 2012 inflation forecast to 3.2 percent
from a November estimate of 3 percent, citing possible increases
in food and energy prices, Isarescu said. The bank met its
inflation goal for the first time in five years in 2011, when
the rate fell to a record-low 3.1 percent.  Food-price growth eased to 0.1 percent from a year earlier
in January, compared with 0.95 percent growth in December, on
falling vegetable prices, the institute said.  Non-food cost growth slowed to 4 percent from a year
earlier, driven by lower electricity and heating costs, compared
with 4.45 percent in December, according to the institute.
Service-price growth accelerated to 4.7 percent from 4.2 percent
the previous month, on rising phone and transport prices, the
institute said.  “Regarding our inflation outlook ahead of this release. we
looked for a favorable base effect to drive inflation lower over
the coming months -- taking it below 2 percent during March-May
-- before food prices push higher in the second half, in the
region of 4 percent,” ING Bank  Romania  SA economist Vlad Muscalu wrote in a note to clients. “We are expecting the
central bank to keep the rate unchanged at the next meeting and
we think these expectations will be largely maintained given the
hints coming from the central bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  