-- Rostelecom May Invest $4 Billion in Wireless Networks, CEO Says
-- B y   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 2012-02-13T14:30:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/rostelecom-may-invest-4-billion-in-wireless-networks-ceo-says.html
OAO Rostelecom (RTKM) , Russia’s dominant
fixed-line operator, may invest $3 billion to $4 billion to
develop mobile networks in the next four years as the state-run
company seeks a bigger share of the wireless Internet market.  “Mobile data services are growing at a very serious rate,
and we plan to focus our main efforts in this segment in
particular,” Chief Executive Officer Alexander Provotorov said
in an interview. “Mobile voice services have stopped growing.”  Rostelecom, which took over regional fixed-line companies
last year, aims to gain 22 percent of the mobile wideband
Internet market by 2015, according to its website. The Moscow-
based operator has less than 2 percent of the market now, while
 Russia ’s three biggest mobile operators have 95 percent,
according to Advanced Communications & Media. The market may
more than double to 160 billion rubles ($5.4 billion) by 2015
from 75 billion rubles last year, Oksana Pankratova, a partner
at the research company, said by phone.  Rostelecom plans to start developing LTE networks, for
faster data transmission, in Russia’s largest cities without
waiting for a federal licensing round, as is  OAO MegaFon (MFON) , one of
Russia’s three biggest mobile operators. Rostelecom agreed last
year to work with Scartel, which operates under the Yota brand
and has the necessary frequencies.  ‘Unbelievable’ Investment  Talks are in progress with Megafon and its larger
competitors OAO Mobile TeleSystems and VimpelCom Ltd. about
collaborating on network development, Provotorov said.  “All the operators are keen to find ways to consolidate
the huge expenses and are ready to share their infrastructure,”
Provotorov said. “It costs about $3 billion to $4 billion to
develop a nationwide mobile network, while the figure would be
far higher for a fixed-line network like Rostelecom’s. The
investment required would be unbelievable.”  Rostelecom, which reported revenue of 276 billion rubles in
2010, has already started building 3G infrastructure in 27
regions, including Moscow, Yekaterinburg, and Irkutsk, he said.  The operator is still seeking regulatory approval to list
in  London , which may happen in the first half of this year after
consolidated results for 2011 are ready, Provotorov said. A
listing may still be shelved, he said.  “The listing for us is not a goal in itself, but a way to
give investors access to our shares and to achieve maximum
liquidity,” Provotorov said. A London listing may no longer be
necessary if the merger of Russia’s two biggest bourses, Micex
and RTS, and creation of a central depositary boosted liquidity
at home, he said.  Election WebCams  Rostelecom is now focusing on setting up web cameras at
more than 91,000 polling stations for the March 4 presidential
election. Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  ordered the move to
fight fraud after nationwide protests against the results of the
Dec. 4 parliamentary elections. As of today, 25,000 devices have
been installed, according to the company’s website.  The state-run operator was awarded the 13 billion-ruble
contract as there was no time to hold a tender before the
presidential vote. The project may cost as much as 30 billion
rubles and Rostelecom may be responsible for the difference,
UralSib Financial Corp. said Jan. 16.  Part of the investment has already been planned into
Rostelecom’s investment program for the next several years and
would have been carried out regardless of the government
contract, Provotorov said.  “It’s a great contract for the company,” Provotorov said.
“I don’t know other telecoms contracts worth as much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  