-- San Francisco Gasoline Surges to Six-Week High on Tesoro Work
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-02-13T23:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/san-francisco-gasoline-surges-to-six-week-high-on-tesoro-work.html
California-blend gasoline in San
Francisco jumped to a six-week high against futures after  Tesoro
Corp. (TSO)  was said to extend a maintenance turnaround at the
Martinez refinery by two weeks on longer-than-expected repairs.  Carbob in  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  strengthened 7.5 cents to a premium
of 19.5 cents against gasoline futures traded on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 5:43 p.m. East Coast time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the largest spread for the
fuel since Dec. 30.  San Antonio-based Tesoro may take a few more weeks than
originally scheduled to finish a planned turnaround at the
170,000-barrel-a-day Martinez refinery in Northern California,
two people familiar with the plant’s operations said. Work on a
crude unit and a hydrodesulphurization unit is taking longer
than expected, one person said.  Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman in  San Antonio , declined to
comment on the delay. Maintenance at the plant isn’t expected to
affect the refinery’s “ability to meet regional contractual
product supply commitments,” she said in an e-mail.  “It is Tesoro’s long-standing policy -for understandable
proprietary and competitive reasons— not to discuss status of
specific units or maintenance activities,” she said.  The premium for Carbob in  Los Angeles  (MOGLDB85) narrowed 1.5 cents to
19.5 cents against gasoline futures.  San Antonio-based  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  was “wrapping up” a
turnaround at the 135,000-barrel-a-day  Wilmington (VAWICRUD)  refinery and
expects to start units over the next few days,  Bill Day , a
company spokesman in San Antonio, said in an e-mail.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD)  slipped
0.25 cent to a premium of 0.75 cent to Nymex heating oil
futures.  San Francisco  CARB diesel strengthened 0.75 cent to a
premium of 0.25 cent against futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland, Oregon (MOGHD87P) , rose
5.5 cents to a discount of 9.5 cents versus gasoline futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  