-- Santorum Draws Even With Romney in Poll Showing Both Men Trailing Obama
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-02-14T05:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/santorum-says-romney-making-desperate-attacks-on-his-record.html
Republican presidential contender
 Rick Santorum  has overtaken Mitt Romney in the battle for the
party’s nomination, according to a Pew Research Center poll that
also shows both losing to President  Barack Obama  in hypothetical
matchups.  Santorum drew the backing of 30 percent of Republican and
Republican-leaning registered voters in the Feb. 8-12 poll,
while Romney got 28 percent, Pew said on its website. Obama held
a 10 percentage point lead over Santorum and 8 points over
Romney among a survey of all registered voters, Washington-based
Pew said.  Romney’s status in the race was shaken when Santorum won
all three contests on Feb. 7 -- in Colorado, Minnesota and
 Missouri .  Last night, Romney told a rally of more than 2,400 in an
outdoor amphitheater in Mesa,  Arizona , that his experience as a
businessman, governor of  Massachusetts  and running the 2002
Winter Olympics makes him best qualified to be president. “Let’s
not nominate someone who hasn’t run anything and hasn’t been a
leader,” he said.  Santorum said over the weekend that Romney has become
“desperate” in trying to attack Santorum’s conservative
credentials. “You reach a point where desperate people do
desperate things,” he said. “He’s having trouble finding out
how to go after someone who is a solid conservative, who’s got a
great track record of attracting independents and Democrats and
winning states as a conservative,” Santorum said in an
interview on ABC Television’s “This Week.”  Washington State  Yesterday, the Romney campaign organized supporters in
Washington state to tout their candidate and his Feb. 11 win in
 Maine ’s caucuses, while Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator,
campaigned in the state in the far Northwest.  “There’s a lot of campaign momentum,” said Cathy McMorris Rodgers, a U.S. representative who is Romney’s campaign
chairwoman in Washington state, during a conference call for
reporters. “There’s no question in my mind that he’s the most
electable of the Republican candidates.”  The next primaries, on Feb. 28, are in Arizona and
 Michigan .  Santorum and onetime U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  have
been vying for weeks to become the chief alternative to Romney
and unite the conservative Republican activists who haven’t
warmed to Romney’s candidacy. Yesterday, National Review Online
suggested Gingrich should step aside.  ‘Proper Course’  “When he led Santorum in the polls, he urged the
Pennsylvanian to leave the race,” the publication said in an
editorial on its website. “On his own arguments, the proper
course for him now is to endorse Santorum and exit.”  The National Review in December warned Republicans against
nominating Gingrich, saying he might ruin the opportunity to win
the White House. Yesterday, the publication said, “It would be
a grave mistake for the party to make someone with such poor
judgment and persistent unpopularity its presidential nominee.”  In the Pew Poll, Gingrich drew the support of 17 percent of
Republican and Republican-leaning voters, while U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas got the backing of 12 percent.  Support for Romney and Gingrich in the Republican race is
virtually the same as recorded in a Jan. 4-8 national Pew poll.
The backing for Santorum has almost doubled.  Obama Matchups  In the matchups with Obama, the president led Romney 52
percent to 44 percent among all registered voters and ran ahead
of Santorum 53 percent to 43 percent. Obama topped Gingrich 57
percent to 39 percent.  The poll’s margin of error in its survey of Republican and
Republican-leaning voters is plus-or-minus 5 percentage points;
for all registered voters, it is 3.5 points.  While Romney has struggled to unite the party behind his
candidacy, he scored a victory over the weekend in a straw poll
at the Conservative Political Action Conference, a group of
activists who oppose  government spending , abortion rights and
gay marriage.  Santorum, who has a record of working against abortion
rights,  downplayed the CPAC straw poll’s importance, saying
Paul had won it in the past by paying for participants’ tickets.
He declined to say whether the Romney campaign had rigged this
year’s contest when asked on CNN’s “State of the Union”
program.  Ticket Question  “You have to talk to the Romney campaign and how many
tickets they bought,” he said. “We’ve heard all sorts of
things.”  Santorum has “a history of making statements that aren’t
grounded in the truth,” Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Romney,
said in an e-mail. “ Mitt Romney  won the CPAC straw poll.”  In a Feb. 10 speech at the CPAC gathering, Romney termed
himself “severely conservative” during his governorship as he
sought support from his audience.  The Pew poll shows that, among his party’s electorate,
those viewing him as a “strong conservative” has dipped to 42
percent from 53 percent in a November survey.  Santorum said he’s in a strong position heading into the
primaries in Arizona and Michigan, where Romney’s father,  George Romney , was governor. Santorum’s wins last week underscore his
potential strength in the Midwest and Mountain West,
particularly in areas with large blue-collar populations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  