-- Satellites for Climate Checks Get Boost After Durban Talks
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-02-13T14:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/satellites-for-climate-checks-get-boost-after-durban-talks.html
Brazilian deforestation and melting
polar ice caps are feeding a boom in demand in the $2.1 billion
market for satellite data, images and services used to monitor
the planet.  More images means more satellites and that need has spurred
the development of the  European Space Agency ’s Vega rocket,
which lifted off from Kourou,  French Guiana , today at about 7
a.m. local time and  released  nine satellites into orbit on its
maiden flight.  “We’re adding this smaller brother to our launchers as
there is more and more demand for Earth observation,” Franco Bonacina, a spokesman for the Paris-based ESA, said in an
interview. “There is an increased need to keep an eye on the
environment.”  European Aeronautic, Defense & Space Co. ’s  Astrium  unit and
e-GEOS, controlled by Telespazio, the satellite-services venture
of  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and  Thales SA (HO) , are among companies working
with governments and international organizations on
environmental monitoring. They got a fillip when envoys at the
United Nation’s latest talks in Durban,  South Africa , agreed to
aim for a 2015 deal to cut  carbon emissions .  Data sales and value-added services from Earth-observation
satellites may more than double to $4.5 billion in the decade
ending 2020, according to  Northern Sky Research . Part of the
growth may come from tracking deforestation, which the UN says
makes up 17 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. Climate envoys
have made reducing forestry emissions a crucial component of the
global talks.  Next Launch  Vega was designed to place small satellites made for
science and planet observation. Today’s main payload was the
Italian space agency ASI’s LARES laser relativity satellite,
which is designed to measure the Lense-Thirring effect, part of
 Albert Einstein ’s theory of general relativity. The next
satellite launch, set for the end of the year or beginning of
2013, will be the Proba-V -- where V stands for vegetation -- to
monitor tree coverage and forests, Bonacina said.  Vega performed as planned, ESA said in a  statement , and
conducted a “flawless qualification flight.”  “The planet needs a checkup and satellites are the best
instrument to pursue it,” said Axel Oddone, head of multi-
mission data access at  e-GEOS . “Environmental monitoring has
grown very strongly in the past few years, and I expect this
trend to accelerate. Durban has contributed to an awakening on
environmental issues among governments.”  Amazon  Brazil , home to the Amazon rainforest, uses satellites to
detail how deforestation is driven and is open to helping other
 developing countries  do likewise, Brazilian lead climate
negotiator Ambassador Andre Correa do Lago said in an interview
in Durban.  “Satellite monitoring is key to the conservation of
forests,” he said.  By combining hundreds of images from satellite coverage
with software analysis, experts can analyze patterns of
deforestation down to a single tree and calculate the emissions
resulting from removing trees that would otherwise sequester
carbon dioxide.  Once countries know their baseline deforestation rate, they
can measure efforts to lower it and be rewarded by international
programs. Climate envoys are working to raise $100 billion of
annual funding by 2020 for climate protection and emissions
reduction projects in developing nations.  Illegal Logging  “In the short term, emerging markets are not generating
profits for us but in perspective they will need services to
fight deforestation and will allocate significant resources to
get these data,” Didier Rigal, head of sustainable development
at Astrium Services, said in an interview. “A potentially big
market related to the carbon economy will open up. Forests are a
hot topic even if it’s a long-route to make it profitable.”  Satellites also serve to step up surveillance of illegal
logging, said Mark Brender, executive director of the GeoEye
Foundation, a non-profit organization set up by  GeoEye Inc. (GEOY)   “Satellites are like a silent watchman in space looking
down on Earth,” Brender said, citing a project to unveil
rosewood trafficking and illegally sourced timber in Madagascar.  Gabon, Nigeria, DRC  One developing country that’s tapping satellite
intelligence is the African republic of Gabon. President Ali-Ben Bongo Ondimba in 2010 set up AGEOS, a national space observation
agency that will also monitor the environment in 20 neighboring
nations, including  Nigeria  and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.  “The knowledge of our environment is thanks mainly to
satellites,” the project’s chief, Aboubakar Mambimba, said in a
phone interview from Gabon’s capital, Libreville. “It gives us
knowledge on the state of our forests, our water resources and
helps us implement effective policies to preserve the
environment.”  Astrium and  France ’s development agency are working with
Congo Basin countries such as Cameroon and  Gabon  to monitor
forest cover. A website with more than  600 satellite images  is
available for projects to reduce emissions from deforestation
and promote sustainable logging.  Companies are increasingly asked to comply with
requirements put in place by local governments for environment
protection, boosting demand for data and services, said Claude Rousseau, a Strasbourg, France-based analyst at Northern Sky
Research.  Declining Sea Ice  As well as monitoring deforestation, a cause of global
warming, satellites are used to observe its effects. In the
Arctic, the U.S. National Snow and Ice  Data Center  uses orbiting
instruments to track the declining sea ice. Instruments and
satellites built by Astrium, Lockheed Martin Corp. and  Japan ’s
NEC Corp. are all part of the effort. Satellites can also track
glaciers, coastal erosion and ocean currents.  “Climate change monitoring goes beyond measuring carbon in
the atmosphere,” said Nancy Colleton, president of  the
Institute for Global Environmental Strategies  in Arlington,
Virginia. “We must have global, long-term data and information
to help us understand how a change in one part of the world may
impact another.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  