-- Saudi Arabia Halts Cement Exports to Meet Local Market Needs
-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2012-02-13T17:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/saudi-arabia-halts-cement-exports-to-meet-local-market-needs.html
Saudi Arabia  said it halted exports
of cement and clinker to prevent shortages of the products and
stabilize prices in the Arab world’s largest economy.  The kingdom’s western region, which includes the Red Sea
port city of Jeddah and the Islamic holy cities of Mecca and
Medina, has suffered a cement shortage as the government
increased spending for infrastructure. Prices for new homes in
Jeddah rose as much as 10 percent this month because of the
higher cost of cement,  al-Eqtisadiah  reported Feb. 8.  Cement makers outside the western region, including Abha-
based  Southern Province Cement Co. (SOCCO) , are required to regularly
supply that area, Ahmed Bin Abdul Rahman, spokesman for  the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry  said in a statement on the
ministry’s website today.  “This is a common measure used by the authorities to
regulate local demand,” said Kais Kriaa, an analyst at
AlphaMena in Tunis. “The local demand problem is the supply
variation from one region to another.”  Southern Province, the kingdom’s second largest cement
producer by market value, will have to deliver the output of its
new line to the western region, according to the ministry’s
statement. The company said on Feb. 11 it started trial
production on a 5,000 tons a day line at its Tihama plant and
that commercial output will start next month.  The ministry said it may take “additional measures in the
future to guarantee the availability and stability of this basic
product.”  Cement production in the kingdom rose 23 percent in January
from the same month a year earlier, according to industry  data 
on the website of Yamamah Saudi Cement Co.  “The real solution to this problem in a sustained demand
environment would be the increase of production capacity,
especially in regions where supply is relatively low,” Kriaa
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  