-- Scarred Hearts Can Be Mended With Stem Cell Therapy, Study Shows
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-02-14T17:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/scarred-hearts-can-be-mended-with-novel-stem-cell-therapy-study-finds.html
Stem cells  grown from patients’ own
cardiac tissue can heal damage once thought to be permanent
after a heart attack, according to a study that suggests the
experimental approach may one day help stave off heart failure.  In a trial of 25 heart-attack patients, 17 who got the stem
cell treatment showed a 50 percent reduction in cardiac scar
tissue compared with no improvement for the eight who received
standard care. The results, from the first of three sets of
clinical trials generally needed for regulatory approval, were
 published  today in the medical journal Lancet.  “The findings in this paper are encouraging,” Deepak Srivastava,  director  of the San Francisco-based Gladstone
Institute of Cardiovascular Disease, said in an interview.
“There’s a dire need for new therapies for people with heart
failure, it’s still the No. 1 cause of death in men and women.”  The study, by researchers from  Cedars-Sinai Heart Institute 
in  Los Angeles  and  Johns Hopkins University  (43935MF) in Baltimore, tested
the approach in patients who recently suffered a heart attack,
with the goal that repairing the damage might help stave off
failure. While patients getting the stem cells showed no more
improvement in heart function than those who didn’t get the
experimental therapy, the theory is that new tissue regenerated
by the stem cells can strengthen the heart, said  Eduardo Marban ,
the study’s lead author.  “What our trial was designed to do is to reverse the
injury once it’s happened,” said Marban, director of Cedars-
Sinai Heart Institute. “The quantitative outcome that we had in
this paper is to shift patients from a high-risk group to a low-
risk group.”  Minimally Invasive  The stem cells were implanted within five weeks after
patients suffering  heart attacks . Doctors removed heart tissue,
about the size of half a raisin, using a minimally invasive
procedure that involved a thin needle threaded through the
veins. After cultivating the stem cells from the tissue, doctors
reinserted them using a second minimally invasive procedure.
Patients got 12.5 million cells to 25 million cells.  A year after the procedure, six patients in the stem cell
group had serious side effects, including a heart attack, chest
pain, a coronary bypass, implantation of a defibrillator, and
two other events unrelated to the heart. One of patient’s side
effects were possibly linked to the treatment, the study found.  While the main goal of the trial was to examine the safety
of the procedure, the decrease in scar tissue in those treated
merits a larger study that focuses on broader clinical outcomes,
researchers said in the paper.  Heart Regeneration  “If we can regenerate the whole heart, then the patient
would be completely normal,” Marban said. “We haven’t
fulfilled that yet, but we’ve gotten rid of half of the injury,
and that’s a good start.”  While the study resulted in patients having an increase in
muscle mass and a shrinkage of scar size, the amount of blood
flowing out of the heart, or the  ejection fraction , wasn’t
different between the control group and stem-cell therapy group.
The measurement is important because poor blood flow deprives
the body of oxygen and nutrients it needs to function properly,
Srivastava said.  “The patients don’t have a functional benefit in this
study,” said Srivastava, who wasn’t not involved in the trial.  The technology is being developed by closely held
 Capricor Inc. , which will further test it in 200 patients for
the second of three trials typically required for regulatory
approval. Marban is a founder of the Los Angeles-based company
and chairman of its scientific advisory board. His wife, Linda
Marban, is also a founder and chief executive officer.  “We’d like to study patients who are much sicker and see if
we can actually spare them early death, or the need for a heart
transplant, or a device,” Eduardo Marban said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  