-- Scene Last Night: Chefs Bouley, Humm Cook With Olympic Swimmer
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-02-13T15:30:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/scene-last-night-chefs-colicchio-bouley-humm-cook-with-olympic-swimmer.html
On Saturday night, chefs  Daniel Boulud ,  Tom Colicchio , Daniel Humm,  David Bouley  and Florian
Bellanger gathered in Bouley’s test kitchen in Tribeca to
prepare a meal for 50 guests.  The occasion was the Gold Medal Dining Experience, a
benefit for the USA Swimming Foundation, which supports athletes
in training and teaches swimming to children in underserved
areas. Tickets were $1,500; All-Clad was the sponsor, providing
frying pans in the goodie bag.  While Humm, chef of Eleven Madison Park, is a marathoner,
and Bouley a boxer and swimmer, the real athlete in the kitchen
was Garrett Weber-Gale, an Olympic swimmer and amateur cook.
Think of him as a budding  Martha Stewart  for the Maxim crowd: a
handsome, affable 26-year-old who -- when he’s not training for
the  Summer Olympics  -- posts recipes on his website,
 AthleticFoodie.com , and teaches cooking classes at Whole Foods
stores.  At Weber-Gale’s request, the meal had to be healthy. So
Boulud, of Daniel, offered peekytoe crab with apple and poppy-
seed gelee. Bouley, whose latest venture is the Japanese eatery
Brushstroke, grilled wild mushrooms; they clear toxins out of
the body, he said. Humm poached loup de mer in citrus. Colicchio
served venison (half the fat of beef, he said) rubbed with
rosemary and juniper; on the side was a mix of quinoa, spelt,
red bean and wild rice.  Weber-Gale’s contribution: butternut squash soup, made
without cream.  ‘Really Good’  “I used rice milk and infused the soup with nutmeg, some
cinnamon and star anise,” Weber-Gale said. “I usually find a
way to alter things. I’ll use less butter, less sugar and add
vegetables. I’ll use whole grain rice.”  “The soup is good, the soup is really good,” Boulud said
after tasting.  A native of Stevens Point,  Wisconsin , Weber-Gale won two
gold medals in 2008 Olympics, swimming with  Michael Phelps  in
the 4-by-100-meter medley relay and the 4-by-100-meter freestyle
relay. He is now training for the Olympic trials in July in the
hopes of competing in  London  in August. He is the first American
to swim the 100-meter freestyle in less than 48 seconds.  He started cooking healthfully when he was a swimmer at the
 University of Texas at Austin . A physical exam in 2005 revealed
his  blood pressure  had soared.  “My diet was better than most college students, but I was
eating a lot of cold-cuts for lunch, lots of pasta and biscuits
that probably had too much salt,” Weber-Gale said.  His culinary training took a serious turn when he met
Boulud on the set of the “Today” show in Beijing.  Time in France  Boulud arranged an apprenticeship for Weber-Gale at La
Maison Troisgros in Roanne,  France , for five weeks in 2010.  Last summer, the swimmer spent about four weeks looking
over the shoulder of chef Rene Redzepi, founder of Noma
restaurant in Copenhagen, which won last year’s S. Pellegrino
World Best Restaurant in the World award.  The meal finished with lime millefeuille prepared by
Bellanger, a former pastry chef at Le Bernardin and co-owner of
Mad Mac, a wholesale baking company.  His cooking done, Weber-Gale donned one of his Olympic gold
medals over his white apron and dug in.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 