-- Scottish Widows Investment Bets on U.S. With Wells Fargo
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-02-13T16:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/scottish-widows-investment-bets-on-u-s-economy-with-wells-fargo.html
Scottish Widows Investment
Partnership bought shares of U.S. banks and consumer-related
companies on signs the world’s largest economy will sustain its
recovery as Europe struggles to contain a debt crisis.  Edinburgh’s second-biggest fund company lifted holdings of
North American shares in the fourth quarter to 59 percent of its
2.8 billion pounds ($4.4 billion) of global stocks, from 49
percent at the end of June, said William Low, who is in charge
of the money. It added to  Wells Fargo & Co.  shares and
maintained its “already high” position in  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. (PNC) , betting they will beat European peers. Low
also bought  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest retailer.  “The  U.S. economy  is showing clear signs of sustainable
growth,” Low said in an interview at the company’s office on
Feb. 3. In Europe, it’s “more challenging to find names that we
can get particularly excited about because the economic
headwinds are fairly strong,” he said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is up 6.8 percent this
year, after ending last year unchanged. It was up 0.6 percent at
11:40 a.m. New York time today.  A report on Feb. 3 showed a
more-than-forecast 243,000 jump in U.S. payrolls in January,
pushing the  unemployment rate  to the lowest since February 2009.
Gross domestic product in the U.S. will probably expand by 2.3
percent in 2012, while the euro area may shrink by 0.5 percent,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  Global View  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco ,  has gained 11 percent 
this year after losing 11 percent in 2011. Bentonville,
Arkansas-based  Wal-Mart’s shares  have risen 3.6 percent in 2012
so far, adding to last year 11 percent advance. Wells Fargo rose
1.3 percent today, while Wal-Mart was 0.2 percent higher.  BlackRock Inc. Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink
said last week investors should have 100 percent of their
holdings in equities because they offer higher returns than
bonds. Low, 45, joined Scottish Widows Investment, part of
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , from BlackRock, the world’s largest
 money manager , in Edinburgh last April.  He is responsible for the company’s money invested in
stocks worldwide. His firm oversaw 136.9 billion pounds in total
at the end of September, according to its website. Standard Life
Investment, the biggest money manager in the Scottish capital,
has about 150 billion pounds of assets.  Standard Life is counting on the U.S. as part of a strategy
to safeguard capital in its biggest fund for outside investors,
Euan Munro, head of the firm’s multiasset team, said in an
interview. The firm favors technology-related stocks.  Performance  The 19.2 million-pound SWIP Global Fund that Low manages
with Iain Fulton and Stephen Corr ranked 85 out of 223 peers in
the second half of 2011, losing 8.75 percent, compared with an
average decline of 10.27 percent, according to research company
Morningstar Inc. It gained 18 percent in the same period in
2010, trailing behind an average 19 percent gain by its peers.  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-market stocks lost 10
percent including dividends in the six months though Dec. 31 as
the debt crisis escalated, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.
That’s compared with returns of 7.3 percent and 10 percent by
U.S. Treasuries and German bonds, according to indexes devised
by Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  Scottish Widows Investment sold its shares in  Coca-Cola
Co. (KO) , the world’s largest soft-drink maker, as it moved “a bit
more toward slightly riskier assets,” Low said. Coca-Cola is
“a classic well managed company, but is just becoming too
expensive relative to the market because people were paying a
high price for safety.”  Coke Ratio  Coca-Cola shares  value the company  at about 18 times profit
compared with an average price-to-earnings ratio of 14 for
members of the  S&P 500 Index , Bloomberg data show. The  stock  is
up 8 percent over the past year. Low also sold  Novartis AG (NOVN) ,
Europe’s biggest drugmaker, he said. The stock has fallen 4.6
percent over the last 12 months.  Gains in European stocks partly reflect easing concern of a
Greek debt default and bank failures after the  European Central
Bank  took steps to pump more money into the financial system,
though the rally might not last because of the effect of
austerity measures on economies in the region, Low said.  The ECB offered unlimited three-year cash to the region’s
financial institutions on Dec. 8. The central bank also cut its
main refinancing rate during its November and December policy
meetings, matching a record low 1 percent.  “There’s a tactical rotational rally taking place within
 Europe ,” Low said. “I’m afraid Europe is going to remain quite
tough into the future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  