-- SEC Review of Private Equity Said to Focus on Smaller Firms
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-02-13T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/sec-said-to-look-at-smaller-firms-in-review-of-private-equity-valuations.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s review of how private equity firms value assets and
market their funds is so far looking at mainly smaller firms,
omitting some of the industry’s largest, publicly traded
companies, said a person familiar with the inquiry.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the biggest private equity firm, and
KKR & Co. haven’t received the SEC’s December request for
information, said the person, who asked not to be named because
the information is private. The inquiry stems from a task force
set up two years ago to look into practices ranging from asset
valuation to conflicts of interest at private equity firms and
 hedge funds , said another person with knowledge of the matter.  Officials for Blackstone and KKR, both based in New York,
declined to comment.  The SEC late last year sent letters to several firms asking
for details on fund investments and the valuation of assets, as
well as communication with clients, according to the copy of a
letter obtained by Bloomberg News. Among issues regulators are
examining is whether firms use inflated valuations to attract
investors when marketing new funds, a person familiar with the
matter said last week.  Private equity came under scrutiny in the aftermath of the
financial crisis, which forced firms to mark down holdings
acquired during a three-year boom that ended in 2008 when the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. froze credit markets.
Financial reform measures such as the Dodd-Frank Act have
proposed more oversight of the firms’ businesses.  Proactive Approach  SEC enforcement director  Robert Khuzami  said in 2009 he
would set up an asset management  task force  to keep up with the
growing number of investment advisers it was tasked with
policing.  Robert Kaplan  and Bruce Karpati, who lead the unit,
have said they will use proactive investigative approaches and
industry outreach to probe issues including valuation and
conflicts of interest at hedge funds, mutual funds and private
equity firms.  Khuzami has said publicly that investigators are targeting
asset managers who have consistently reported above-market
returns.  The SEC typically polices public securities offerings and
transactions. It hasn’t traditionally focused on areas such as
private equity that involve sophisticated investors and private
placements that are exempt from registration with the regulator,
although it can enforce private equity managers’ fiduciary duty
to their funds.  SEC enforcement attorney Chad Alan Earnst said at an
industry conference last month that while general partners in
private equity funds have some discretion in how they value
their portfolio, valuation is still subject to the fiduciary
duties the general partner owes the fund, according to a report
in Private Equity International.  ‘Conflicts of Interest’  Private equity firms pool investor money to buy companies,
using mostly debt, with the intention of selling them or taking
them public later for a profit. They typically charge an annual
management fee of 1.5 percent to 2 percent of committed funds
and keep 15 percent to 20 percent of profit from investments.  SEC investigators are also teaming up with other agency
staff who perform routine examinations of asset managers to
identify potential problems with firms’ practices.  In May, Carlo di Florio, head of the SEC’s office of
inspections and examinations, said the consistency and
comparability of a firm’s valuation methods, the disclosure of
pricing methodology and unrealized performance were areas that
concerned the agency.  “There are likely to be conflicts of interest over how
investment valuation is calculated, whether in reporting
performance to fund investors or in marketing materials for
raising capital for new funds,” Di Florio said.  ‘Census-Like Data’  “In addition to such conflicts, there is also potential
for more egregious conduct, such as misleading reporting to
current or prospective investors on PE fund performance by
selectively highlighting only the most successful portfolio
companies while ignoring or underweighting portfolio companies
that underperform,” he said.  The SEC in June voted to require private-fund advisers to
register with the agency, although publicly traded private
equity firms already provide detailed information in quarterly
and yearly filings. The mandate forces 750 advisers to disclose
“census-like data” about their investors and employees, the
assets they manage, potential conflicts of interest and their
activities outside of fund advising.  In the 16-page letter dated Dec. 8, the SEC said its
“request should not be construed as an indication by the
commission or its staff that any violation of the federal
securities law has occurred, nor should it be a reflection upon
any person, entity or security.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  