-- Shun $2,000 Bottles of Geriatric Vintages, Go With Younger Wine
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-02-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/shun-2-000-bottles-of-geriatric-vintages-go-with-younger-wine.html
Pianist Arthur Rubinstein was fond
of telling the story of the wine connoisseur who once invited
the composer Johannes Brahms to dinner: “This is the Brahms of
my cellar,” said the collector to his guests, filling the
master’s glass from a dusty bottle. Brahms looked at the color
of the wine, smelled it and finally took a taste. “Hmmm,” he
said after putting down the glass. “Better bring your
Beethoven.”  That’s the trouble with old wines. Even if kept in
temperature- and humidity-controlled conditions in a million-
dollar cellar: they can go bad, oxidize or simply not taste very
good after years of aging.  As someone who has occasion to sample a lot of older wines,
I have ceased being shocked that even a great vintage, kept
under ideal conditions, can be a complete dud. Indeed, the older
I get and the older those wines get, the more convinced I am
that keeping wines for decades is a very risky business.  In some cases even the greatest wines can begin to
evaporate in the bottle, causing an air space at the neck,
called ullage, which is why some collectors have their old
bottles opened at intervals and topped off under the supervision
of the estate owners.  There is also the possibility of the wine being corked,
with some estimates suggesting that up to 15 percent of all
bottles may be so damaged. For this reason none of the most
illustrious auction houses like  Christie’s International (CHRS) ,
 Sotheby’s (BID)  and Hart Davis Hart will guarantee the soundness of
wines offered.  China Effect  Of course, many who buy rare old wines at auction are not
connoisseurs at all and have no intention of ever opening the
bottles. Instead, they wait to re-sell the wines at higher
prices, a multiplier effect that has largely been driven for the
last few years by the Chinese auction market.  Restaurateurs get equally antsy about selling very old,
very expensive wines on their list, which are sometimes there
more for show than anything else. While policies differ from
restaurant to restaurant, many will absorb the cost of a
verifiable bad bottle on their list bought by a guest.  “We can’t put warning labels on our wines,” says Charles Masson, owner of La Grenouille in  New York , where the customers
tend to be very affluent and very faithful. “There is always a
risk in storing old wines. But if a bottle is truly bad, we will
not make our guest pay for it.”  And if a guest spurns a bottle because he simply doesn’t
care for the taste or erroneously insists it’s gone bad? “It’s
an awkward situation,” says Masson. “But then we do charge for
the wine if we know it’s sound.”  Attraction of Youth  As La Grenouille replenishes its list, Masson is stocking
fewer older vintages. “The prices are now so high and there is
a diminished demand from our clientele,” he says. “We actually
encourage them to try a younger, less expensive wine more
conducive to the meal rather than go for the 1998 Haut-Brion on
our list that costs $2,250.”  The tradition of drinking very old wines is more British
than French, especially among those Brits who have been involved
in the French wine trade for centuries. Now, technology and
contemporary preference have made the idea of drinking younger,
fresher, dependable wines more reasonable than taking a risk on
an old one whose best days may be behind it.  “An average vintage will age and pass its peak faster,”
says Corinne Mentzelopoulos, owner of the first growth  Chateau
Margaux  in Bordeaux. “But great vintages, such as 1953, 1959,
and 1961 are today the best and the most moving experiences one
can have and when kept by the wine experts who know those wines,
might still get better with further aging.”  Harvest Timing  Mentzelopoulos says modern viticulture allows her more
leeway in how she makes her wines: “We can wait and pick the
grapes when we believe them to have achieved maturity, which I
find is one of the major changes at Margaux and in Bordeaux.”  In the past, growers had to bring the grapes in before the
rot set, she said. Now, in vintage years Bordeaux winegrowers
can harvest at the optimum time, when the tannins are ripe and
therefore softer, making the wines more pleasant to drink from
the beginning.  “So, yes, they can be drunk earlier, although there are
some vintages which remain very harsh when young,”
Mentzelopoulos said. “In good-to-great vintages it is still
better to wait.”  She says only a few estates in Bordeaux and Burgundy make
wines that improve as they age. Wines of other regions and
lesser vintages should be drunk earlier “because they will pass
their peak faster.”  In other words, few wines, or those who drink them, will
age gracefully -- something to keep in mind when ordering a
bottle older than yourself.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 