-- Sina Leads Internet Stock Surge as Market Grows: China Overnight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-02-13T21:59:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/sina-leads-internet-stock-surge-in-n-y-on-cheapness-lure-china-overnight.html
Sina Corp. (SINA)  gained, helping Chinese
shares traded in New York to a five-month high, after analysts
recommended buying the nation’s Internet companies as users
climb and their stock trades cheaper than peers in the U.S.  Sina, which runs the Twitter-like Weibo service in  China ,
jumped the most in two weeks, while  E-Commerce China Dangdang
Inc. (DANG) , China’s largest Internet bookseller, and  Renren Inc. (RENN) ,
operator of a social networking website, also advanced. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the most-traded Chinese equities
in the U.S. gained 1.6 percent to 106.72 at the close in New
York, the highest since Aug. 31.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s largest social networking site,
may be valued at as much as $100 billion in a public offering,
people familiar with the matter have said. That’s about 26.9
times trailing 12-month sales. Sina trades at about 9.8 times
 sales  and has a market value of $4.6 billion. Renren said
yesterday users may top 200 million in 2012, while Sina had 110
million active users in December, about 13 percent of Facebook’s
user base, according to Ming Zhao, an analyst at Susquehanna
International Group LLP.  “There’s no doubt that social networking has a big future,
a bright future in China,” said Kevin Carter, co-founder and
chief executive officer at Baochuan Capital Management LLC in
Walnut Creek,  California . He manages $50 million including Sina
shares. Sina, with its short messaging product similar to
Twitter, is “experiencing outsized growth and that platform
continues to explode in popularity.”  China ETF Climbs  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced for the first time in
three days, increasing 1.3 percent to $39.42.  Shanghai-based Sina lost 13 percent last week after
 Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) , owner of China’s third-biggest search engine,
posted a decline in fourth-quarter net income that missed
analysts’ estimates by as much as $21 million, boosting concern
of a looming slowdown in Chinese  Internet advertising .  Beijing-based Sohu gained 0.2 percent to $51.02 in New York
trading after losing 19 percent last week. Sina advanced 7.8
percent to $70.21.  E-Commerce, known as Dangdang and also based in Beijing,
gained 7.7 percent to $7.41. The retailer trades for 1.2 times
sales, compared with a 1.8 times multiple for  Amazon.com Inc (AMZN) ,
the world’s largest online retailer.  Adam Krejcik , an analyst at  Roth Capital Partners ,
estimates Sina’s Weibo will add 10 million users a month this
year. He rates the shares “buy.”  ‘Compelling’ Valuation  The valuation of Sina’s Weibo service is “pretty
compelling in light of the valuations that Facebook is getting,
so I think people are revisiting it,” Krejcik said by phone
from  Newport Beach , California yesterday. “It remains the pre-
eminent microblog service. When you value it and compare it to
peers, it’s getting a steep, steep discount, so we don’t think
it’s warranted.”  Renren may add more than 40 million users this year,
boosted by demand from smartphone buyers, Chief Executive
Officer Joseph Chen said yesterday in an interview. The company
had 137 million users at the end of September.  American depositary receipts of Renren advanced 3.5 percent
to $5.38, the highest level since Feb. 2.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s largest solar-panel
maker, dropped 6.9 percent to $3.75 in New York, the biggest
slide in almost a month. Analysts at UBS AG downgraded the
company to “neutral” from “buy.” The shares have gained 70
percent this year after plunging 72 percent in 2011.  Macau Revenue Boost  Casino operator  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  added 4.3
percent to $12.03, the biggest advance in a week. Harry Curtis,
an analyst at Nomura Securities International Inc., said gaming
revenues in the only Chinese city where public gambling is
allowed in the first 12 days of February imply a jump of as much
as 28 percent in revenue for the period January to February,
compared with a year earlier. That’s above Curtis’ estimate for
a 25 percent rise, he said in a research note dated yesterday.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of mainland shares
traded in  Hong Kong  gained 0.5 percent to 11,467.66 and the
 Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  was little changed at 2,351.85
yesterday.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said that the nation needs to
start “fining-tuning” economic policies this quarter,
according to a Xinhua News Agency report on Feb. 12, adding to
speculation that the government will take more steps to boost
demand.  ‘Proper Judgement’  Economic circumstances in January and the first quarter
deserve attention, Wen told business executives last week in
Beijing as he sought opinions on a government report, according
to the report.  “We have to make a proper judgment as early as possible
when things happen and take quick action,” Wen was cited as
saying by Xinhua.  China’s central bank has refrained from lowering the amount
of cash banks are required to keep in reserve since a 50 basis-
point cut in December to 21 percent, the first reduction in
three years. The nation’s 6.56 percent lending rate has remained
unchanged since July.  “Wen’s comments on fine tuning economic policies have had
a positive impact on Chinese stocks,” Kevin Pollack, a  fund
manager  at Paragon Capital LP in  New York , said by e-mail.
“They are creating a greater expectation that the reserve-
requirement ratio will be cut and easing will continue, fueling
greater economic growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  