-- Singapore Begins Consultation on Derivatives Rules
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-02-13T11:12:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/singapore-begins-consultation-on-derivatives-rules-correct-.html
The  Monetary Authority of Singapore 
released a discussion paper about proposals to regulate over-
the-counter derivatives transactions.  The city-state’s central bank joins regulators in  South
Korea  and  Hong Kong  in efforts to reduce risks in derivatives
markets. The MAS said in a statement it plans to initially
require interest-rate, foreign-exchange and commodity
derivatives products to be cleared by central counterparties and
reported to trade repositories by the end of 2012.  The reforms “form part of the global efforts to strengthen
the international financial regulatory system in the wake of the
2008 global financial crisis,” according to the statement. The
MAS today issued a consultation paper seeking industry feedback
on the proposed rules. The consultation runs until March 26.  Regulators worldwide are increasing scrutiny of over-the-
counter derivatives after they were blamed in part for masking
risk in the lead up to the 2008 credit crisis and the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Governments globally are
working to move the trades on to exchanges and through central
clearing houses, which manage risk.  The notional value of derivatives transactions in  Singapore 
amounted to S$9.8 trillion ($7.8 trillion) in 2010, the MAS
said, citing data from the  Bank for International Settlements .
Interest-rate derivatives products account for 55 percent of the
market, while 38 percent are foreign exchange derivatives. The
rest are commodities, which are currently regulated by
 International Enterprise Singapore , the country’s trade
regulatory agency.  Mitigate Systemic Risk  “The MAS proposals are timely and we believe it will
improve the transparency in the market and mitigate the  systemic
risk  for the parties involved should the failure of a
counterparty happen,” Lam Kun Kin, head of global treasury and
investment banking at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., said in an
e-mailed statement.  A derivative is a contract between two parties linked to
the future value or status of the underlying asset to which it
refers, including  interest rates  or the price of commodities
such as oil or wheat. An over-the-counter derivative is
privately negotiated between two parties, rather than being
traded on an exchange.  Hong Kong last year started consultations on proposals for
regulating the city’s over-the-counter derivatives markets.
Korea Exchange Inc., which operates South Korea’s stock market,
said last month it plans to start a clearinghouse for OTC
derivatives. The Japan Securities Clearing Corp. began clearing
over-the-counter credit default swaps on the iTraxx Japan Index
in July.  Clearinghouse  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , the only licensed clearinghouse in
the city-state, processes non-deliverable forwards and
standardized interest rate swaps in Singapore dollars and U.S.
dollars. The MAS said it may allow other entities to provide
clearing and repository services.  Clearinghouses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members. Each party posts
collateral to the clearinghouse, which is the intermediary in
the trade, reducing the risk in the event a trader defaults on a
deal as the counterparties would spread the open positions to
the remaining members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  