-- Skymark Air Drops After Lowering Profit Forecast: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-02-13T07:46:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/skymark-air-drops-after-lowering-profit-forecast-tokyo-mover.html
Skymark Airlines Inc. (9204) ,  Japan ’s
largest low-fare carrier, dropped the most in more than two
weeks in  Tokyo  trading after lowering its annual profit forecast
amid higher fuel prices.  Skymark  fell  9.2 percent to 670 yen as of the 3 p.m. close
of trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the biggest decline
since Jan. 27.  The carrier lowered its  net income  forecast 13 percent to
7.7 billion yen ($99 million) for the year ending March 31, the
company said on Feb. 10 after markets closed. Skymark is also
bracing to withstand competition from three new budget carriers
that will start flights this year in Japan.  “The market is taking a dislike to the forecast
downgrade,” said  Ryota Himeno , an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ
Morgan Stanley Securities Co. “Oil prices have been on the
upturn since January and if this continues, then it’s going to
impact next fiscal year’s earnings as well.”  Skymark has tumbled 45 percent in the past six months amid
concern that competition from new airlines will damp profit. The
airline is counting on its larger fleet and established brand to
help withstand the startups and competition that newcomer
Jetstar has predicted will be “brutal.”  Jetstar Japan Co., which is backed by Japan Airlines Co.
and  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) ’s Jetstar unit, will begin flights from
Narita airport later this year using three planes. It aims to
increase its fleet to 24 within a few years.  AirAsia, Peach  AirAsia Japan Co., a venture between  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202) 
and  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) , the region’s biggest low-cost carrier, also
intends to start flying from Narita this year. Peach Aviation
Ltd., backed by ANA and Hong Kong-based Far Eastern Investment
Group, will start flights from Kansai airport next month.  Skymark President Shinichi Nishikubo said in a Feb. 9
interview in Tokyo that the airline’s profit will rise next
fiscal year as it adds more flights and utilizes its main base
at Tokyo’s downtown Haneda airport.  Skymark is building up a hub at Narita and adding flights
from  Osaka ’s Kansai to boost sales. These two operations will
have a “strong impact” on  earnings  in the second half of the
next fiscal year, Nishikubo said.  “The Narita flights we’ve started so far have been making
a decent profit and I expect that to continue,” Nishikubo said.
The airline plans to serve nine domestic destinations from its
Narita base, which opened last year, by September 2014.  The carrier expects net income to rise 22 percent to 7.7
billion yen in the year ending March 31. It earlier predicted a
profit of 8.8 billion yen. The airline, which doesn’t hedge
fuel, is paying more for jet kerosene after prices have risen
4.4 percent in Singapore trading since Skymark last announced
its earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  