-- Slain Student Leaves Prosecutor Targeting Son in Landay Novel
-- B y   L a u r i e   M u c h n i c k
-- 2012-02-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/slain-student-leaves-prosecutor-targeting-son-in-landay-novel.html
What would you do if your 14-year-
old son was arrested for murder?  Andy Barber, the narrator of  William Landay ’s smashing new
novel, “ Defending Jacob ,” refuses to consider that he might be
guilty. Andy’s wife, Laurie, thinks back to the times when
Jacob’s preschool friends were mysteriously hurt around him --
falling off the monkey bars, losing control of a tricycle -- and
wonders if he might actually have done it.  Taking a page from  Scott Turow ’s playbook, Landay has made
his narrator a prosecutor. Andy is the First Assistant District
Attorney for a suburban Massachusetts county. When one of
Jacob’s middle-school classmates, Ben Rifkin, is found dead in
the woods, stabbed while walking to school, Andy naturally takes
on the investigation.  Days go by and there’s one promising lead -- a known
pedophile lives nearby. But it’s also suspicious how little the
kids at school seem to want to talk to the investigators.  Finally, in a nice contemporary twist, one of Jacob’s
friends tells Andy to check out the “Friends of Ben Rifkin”
 Facebook (FB)  page -- where he finds messages addressed to his own
son saying things like “JB what are you mouthing off here for?
go die. the world would be a better place.”  Shocked, Andy turns to Jacob’s own profile, where he finds
this written by Jacob’s best friend:  “Jake, everyone knows you did it. You have a knife. I’ve
seen it.”  Missing Knife  The book opens with Andy testifying before a grand jury,
where he quickly admits to having thrown away the knife he found
after searching Jacob’s room. Landay pulls you in with Andy’s
interesting perspective as both father and prosecutor and with
his own good writing:  “In the grand jury room that morning, the jurors were in a
sullen, defeated mood. They sat, thirty-odd men and women who
had not been clever enough to find a way out of serving, all
crammed into those school chairs with teardrop-shaped desks for
chair arms.”  Then you start to wonder: What happened to Jacob and his
trial? Why is Andy being questioned?  Landay does a lovely job setting up the many strands of
this complex novel, so I don’t want to give too much away. We
soon find out that the grand jury is taking place a year after
the murder, and Andy begins narrating the story of what’s
happened during that time -- telling us everything as he
experienced it, but clearly knowing a lot more than he’s letting
on, since he’s telling it in hindsight.  Family Tensions  Family tensions arise as Laurie tries to get Andy to talk
about what happens if Jacob is guilty: not found guilty by a
jury, but actually guilty. Andy refuses to discuss that, and
just keeps investigating the murder, determined to prove that
the pedophile did it.  There’s plenty of sharp legal maneuvering from Jacob’s
defense attorney, Jonathan Klein, who’s tailor-made for the
inevitable movie: “With his backswept white hair, white goatee
and benevolent smile, I thought there was a magical quality
about him,” Andy says. (This too reminded me of Turow’s
“Presumed Innocent,” with its elegant defense attorney, Sandy
Stern.)  I didn’t entirely buy the “shocking twist” at the end --
that quote is from the jacket flap, so I’m not spoiling anything
-- but I’m sure a lot of readers will disagree with me. That’s
part of the fun.  “Defending Jacob” is published by Delacorte (421 pages,
$26). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Laurie Muchnick is an editor for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Laurie Muchnick in  New York  at 
 lmuchnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 