-- Azerbaijan to Keep Control of Pipeline After Offering Stakes
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-02-13T16:19:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/socar-to-sell-shares-from-its-80-azeri-turkish-pipeline-stake.html
State Oil Co. of  Azerbaijan  plans to
keep control of a pipeline development with  Turkey  to carry gas
to  Europe  as the state-run company offers part of its 80 percent
holding to producers such as  BP Plc (BP\) ,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and  Total SA. (FP)   The three Western oil producers may be interested in buying
stakes in the Trans-Anatolia pipeline, or Tanap, said Rovnaq Abdullayev, president of the Azeri company, known as Socar. The
Baku-based company will consider the matter after Azerbaijan and
Turkey sign accords, probably in March or April, he said today.  The two countries are developing the pipeline to provide an
alternative supply for Turkey and Europe, which are dependent on
Russian natural gas. It will link with the proposed Nabucco line
that’s being developed by  Germany , Austria,  Hungary , Romania,
Bulgaria and Turkey, or smaller volume projects vying for export
rights, Abdullayev told Azeri television channel ANS yesterday.  Turkish state pipeline company Botas Boru Hatlari ile
Petrol Tasima AS and oil and gas producer Turkiye Petrolleri AO
have a combined 20 percent of Tanap.  The 2,000-kilometer (1,243 mile) Tanap pipe, with initial
capacity of 16 billion cubic meters a year, may cost $5 billion
to $7 billion, according to a preliminary feasibility study,
Abdullayev said. Turkey will get 6 billion cubic meters of gas a
year through the pipeline, with the rest going to Europe, after
the project is completed in 2017, he said. Azeri and Turkish
officials began work on the project in Ankara today, he said.  Local Partner  Socar, which plans $17 billion to $20 billion of investment
in Turkey in the next decade, is also interested in an auction
of Igdas Istanbul Gaz Dagitim Sanayi Ve Ticaret AS, Istanbul’s
gas grid company, Abdullayev said. Socar may get a local partner
for a bid and also make an offer for Desfa SA, Greece’s gas
transmission company, should the government sell, he said.  Socar, creating a $5 billion refinery with  Turcas Petrol
AS (TRCAS) , is seeking as much as $4 billion in loans by the fourth
quarter to build the facility, said Abdullayev. Socar is also
interested in a Turkish plan to lease coal fields to investors.  The company is studying Ukraine’s request for liquefied
natural gas supplies from Azerbaijan, Abdullayev said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 