-- Spain’s Bumper January Bond Sales Widen Funding Gap to Italy: Euro Credit
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   K e i t h   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-02-13T15:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/spain-s-bumper-january-bond-sales-widen-funding-gap-to-italy-euro-credit.html
Spain ’s bonds are poised to
outperform Italy’s for a second year after the nation’s debt
agency in  Madrid  raised more than a quarter of the funds it
needs this year in the past six weeks.  Spain has issued 25.4 billion euros ($34 billion) of debt
so far this year, according to UBS AG estimates. Italy has sold
8 percent of its requirement while  France  has issued 16 percent
and Germany 12 percent, the calculations show. All four nations
will sell securities this week amid concern that a plan to help
Greece avoid default is unraveling and may spark a fresh wave of
contagion in the euro-region.  “Spain’s funding this year has been massive,” said
Gianluca Ziglio, an interest-rate strategist at UBS AG in
London. “That is a huge amount and they’ve done it in one and a
half months. The picture for  Italy  is the opposite and it
doesn’t bode well because demand is weak.”  Investors made 7 percent on Spanish debt last year as the
nation’s 10-year bonds rose, pushing yields down 37 basis points
to 5.09 percent. Italy’s fell, with benchmark 10-year bond rates
climbing 229 basis points, or 2.29 percentage points, to 7.11
percent. Holders of Italian debt lost 5.7 percent, according to
indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. The rates were 5.21 percent
and 5.53 percent, respectively, at 3:27 p.m. London time. Yields
on both nations’ 10-year securities climbed to euro-era records
last year as contagion from the debt crisis spread.  Bond Rally  Spanish and Italian bonds have rallied since Dec. 8, when
the  European Central Bank  said it would give three-year loans to
banks to boost lending, a measure Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  says is helping the  bond market .  Spain’s accelerated issuance has come at a cost: its 10-
year bond yield rose 32 basis points last week, while Italy’s
fell nine basis points. The yield difference between the two
securities has narrowed to 32 basis points, from a high of 202
basis points on Dec. 30.  “It’s a question of whether you want pain up front or pain
later,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , the Paris-based head of euro-area
rate strategy at Societe Generale SA. “It’s longer-term
positive for Spain. Italy will have to make up for lost time.”  Spain has raised more than Italy this year by being
“opportunistic” about when and how it accesses the market,
according to  David Schnautz , a fixed-income strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  London .  Benchmark Sale  The nation sold an additional 4 billion euros of benchmark
10-year bonds through banks last week. Italy last sold
securities through banks in June.  Spain is set to sell 12- and 18-month Treasury bills
tomorrow and as much as 4.5 billion euros of securities on Feb.
16, according to Commerzbank AG. Italy plans to auction bonds
tomorrow after a sale of 12 billion euros of bills today.  “Spain has been prudent by selling bonds when and where it
sees demand; they want to be as flexible as possible in order to
get the debt away,” said Lyn Graham-Taylor, a fixed-income
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “Italy has
bigger funding requirements and a strong domestic investor base,
which may prefer supply to be smooth throughout the year.”  Italy has 175 billion euros of debt to issue this year,
according to UBS. The nation’s debt agency usually sticks to a
monthly auction plan, which spreads issuance over the calendar
year, according to  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London.  Fundamentals ‘Poor’  “Italy has so much debt to issue,” said Peter Allwright,
head of absolute rates and currency at RWC Partners Ltd., a
London-based asset-management company that oversees about $4
billion. “It’s difficult to be long Italian debt because the
underlying fundamentals are still poor.”  Spain and Italy may face difficulties as the euro-region
slips into a recession, Allwright and Eric Wand, a fixed-income
strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London, said.  The euro-area economy will probably contract 0.5 percent
this year with recessions in crisis-hit  Greece  and  Portugal ,
compared with a 2.3 percent expansion in the U.S., according to
Bloomberg surveys of economists. Spain’s economy will contract
0.1 percent, while Italy’s will decline 1.2 percent, the surveys
show.  “We see ominous dark clouds looming in the second half of
the year as austerity bites,” Allwright said. “That raises the
question of where economic growth will come from in  Europe .”  The Spanish government said Dec. 30 that its 2011 deficit
would reach 8 percent of gross domestic product, exceeding the
European Commission’s 6.6 percent forecast, after growth
stalled. While Italy’s deficit probably shrank last year to 4
percent from 4.6 percent a year earlier, according to the EC’s
projections, its debt load, estimated at 120.5 percent of GDP
last year, is almost double the 69.6 percent forecast for Spain.  “Spain’s done a really good job in front-loading its
sales,” said Lloyds’s Wand. “Italy has a lot of work to do, it
still has a wall of supply it needs to sell.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  