-- Speculators Hike Commodity Wagers
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-13T22:07:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/speculators-lift-wagers-to-highest-since-september-commodities.html
Hedge funds  increased bets on rising
commodity prices to the highest since September on mounting
confidence that growth in the U.S. will strengthen demand.  Money managers boosted their combined net-long positions
across 18 U.S. futures and options by 13 percent to 929,199
 contracts  in the week ended Feb. 7, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show. That’s the highest since Sept. 20. Bullish
wagers on copper rose to a six-month high, and soybean holdings
jumped by the most this year.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot  Index (SPGSCI)  of 24 commodities
rose to a six-month high on Feb. 9, a day after the MSCI All-
Country World  Index (MXWD)  entered a  bull market , as indicators
signaled accelerating growth. Fewer Americans than forecast
filed claims for jobless benefits in the week to Feb. 4, and
 consumer confidence  rose to a one-year high. Investments in
commodities expanded for a seventh week, the longest streak
since February 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The improving economic data, not just in the U.S., we’ve
seen better data in Europe as well, has put recession fears on
the back burner,” said Anthony Valeri, a market strategist with
 LPL Financial  in  San Diego , which oversees $330 billion of
assets. “That augers well for commodity demand.”  Silver Rally  The S&P GSCI gauge rose 1 percent last week. The number of
futures contracts on 24 commodities from oil to copper rose 0.8
percent, extending this year’s expansion to 13 percent. The MSCI
index of equities ended the week down 0.4 percent, and the yield
on 10-year Treasuries rose 6.4 basis points, or 0.064 percentage
point, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Seventeen of the raw materials tracked by the S&P GSCI
gained this year, led by a 20 percent advance in silver. Zinc
jumped 13 percent and copper climbed 12 percent. The GSCI rose 1
percent to settle at 680.1 today.  Prospects for the  U.S. economy  improved as more Americans
returned to work. The  unemployment rate  fell to the lowest in
three years last month, the government said Feb. 3. Applications
for jobless  benefits  dropped 15,000 in the week ended Feb. 4 to
358,000, Labor Department figures showed. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg forecast 370,000 claims.  The U.S. will probably grow 2.2 percent this year, from 1.7
percent in 2011, according to the median of 89 economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Investors should take on more
risk because the world isn’t going to “fall apart,” Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive officer of BlackRock Inc., the
world’s largest money manager, said in a Feb. 8 interview in
 Hong Kong .  Commodity Funds  Investors added $941 million to commodity funds in the week
ended Feb. 8, a second consecutive gain, according to data from
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global, which tracks money
flows. Gold and precious-metals inflows totaled $495 million,
said  Cameron Brandt , the director of research.  Signs of a slowdown in China, the world’s biggest consumer
of everything from pork to soybeans to aluminum, may limit
commodities demand. The country’s exports and imports declined
last month for the first time in two years and lending increased
less than forecast, reports showed Feb. 10.  The MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD)  tumbled 1.2 percent on
Feb. 10, the biggest loss this year, on concern European leaders
will struggle to contain the debt crisis. Greek Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos  won approval of a bill on austerity measures to
secure a second bailout package. The parliamentary vote took
place as police battled rioters in  Athens  protesting the
measures including state jobs cuts.  Investment Officer  “The issues that we’ve had in the past regarding the debt
crisis and  government spending  and the crisis in  Europe , that
hasn’t gone away,” said Stephen Hammers, the Nashville,
Tennessee-based chief investment officer at Compass EMP Fund,
which manages about $450 million of assets. “As soon as that
comes back to the forefront, it will affect how consumers spend
their money.”  Funds boosted their bullish  bets  on copper by 60 percent to
12,298 contracts, the CFTC data show. That’s the highest since
the week ending Aug. 2. Inventories tracked by the London Metal
Exchange are at a two-year low after global mine production fell
by a record 200,000 metric tons in 2011,  Barclays Capital 
estimates.  Thirteen of 25 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect copper
to gain this week and three were neutral, the first overall
bullish response in seven weeks. Chinese officials will boost
support for affordable housing, the People’s Bank of  China  said
Feb. 7. The nation is the world’s biggest copper consumer.  The
metal fell 0.7 percent to $8,425 a ton on the LME today.  Corn Prices  A  measure  of 11 U.S. farm goods showed speculators raised
bullish bets in agricultural commodities by 16 percent to
455,628, the highest since the week ended Nov. 8. Corn wagers
rose 11 percent to 210,084, the most since Jan. 10. Bets on
rising soybean prices surged 55 percent to 62,856 contracts, the
government said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. expects corn prices to advance 9.2
percent in six months to $6.90 a bushel, the bank said in a Feb.
9 report. Stockpiles of the grain in the U.S., the world’s
biggest exporter, will tighten further. Soybeans may climb 5
percent to $12.90 a bushel as South American production
declines, the bank’s analysts said.  Hot, dry weather is curbing oilseed crops in Brazil and
 Argentina , the top growers after the U.S., prompting the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  to lower its forecast for world
soybean  inventories  by 5 percent on Feb. 9.  “You have pretty low inventory levels on a historic basis,
which basically leaves ourselves open to supply-side shocks,”
said Kelly Wiesbrock, who helps manage $1.3 billion of assets
for San Francisco-based hedge fund Harvest Capital Strategies.
“If we end up with a bad crop, we could end up with commodity
prices jumping a lot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  