-- Sri Lanka Stocks May Slump More on Rates, HSBC Private Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2012-02-14T12:43:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/sri-lankan-stocks-may-extend-slump-on-rates-hsbc-private-says.html
Sri Lanka’s benchmark stock index,
the world’s worst performer this year, may extend its slump as
the central bank raises borrowing costs to curb inflation,
according to HSBC Holdings Plc’s private banking unit.  HSBC Private Bank , which oversees about $499 billion, will
wait for stock valuations to fall to “single digit” multiples
before it considers buying shares,  Arjuna Mahendran , Singapore-
based head of Asia investment strategy, said in an interview
yesterday. HSBC Private may purchase bank stocks, he said,
declining to be more specific.  The benchmark  Colombo  All-Share Index lost 3.7 percent to
5,009.96 at the 2:30 p.m. time close, its lowest level since
Aug. 9, 2010, while the rupee tumbled 2.6 percent to its lowest
since May 2009. Stocks and the currency sank yesterday on
concern consumer prices will accelerate after the government
increased fuel prices. The monetary authority raised benchmark
interest  rates  for the first time since 2007 on Feb. 3 to curb
credit growth in the nation’s $50 billion economy.  “Monetary tightening is always bad for the market,” said
Mahendran. “The share market has been impacted and could be
impacted for a little while longer. We have to watch prices.”  The Colombo All-Share Index, which had its steepest drop
since October 2010 today, has sunk 18 percent so far this  year ,
the most among 93 major benchmark gauges tracked by Bloomberg.
The Sri Lankan measure trades at 10.8 times reported profit, the
lowest level since March 2009. The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) 
is valued at 12 times earnings.  ‘Quite Cheap’  Some stocks “are quite cheap,” said Mahendran. “We start
to buy when multiples become single digit, 7 or 8 times.”  The strategist said in a Bloomberg Television interview in
January 2011 that emerging stocks would take a “breather.” The
MSCI Emerging Markets Index retreated 20 percent in 2011. He
said in December 2009 that HSBC Private had been buying Pakistan
stocks on declines. The Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index gained
28 percent the following year.  The 241-stock Sri Lankan gauge slid 4.8 percent last  week 
following the interest-rate increase and as the central bank
ended a currency trading band to help conserve foreign-exchange
reserves. The rupee lost 0.8 percent last week and has weakened
4.4 percent this week to 120.13 per dollar.  Fuel Protests  Ceylon Petroleum Corp. ,  Sri Lanka ’s state-run oil company,
raised prices of several products effective Feb. 11 midnight,
according to a statement published in the state-owned Daily News
yesterday. The increases sparked protests by the transport and
fisheries industries, the Xinhua news agency reported.  “There is selling pressure in the market as the move is
expected to boost inflation expectations,” Bimanee Meepagala, a
Colombo-based analyst at NDB Aviva Wealth Management Ltd., the
nation’s biggest non-state fund, said by phone yesterday.  Consumer prices in Colombo  rose  3.8 percent in January from
a year earlier after gaining 4.9 percent in December.  Sri Lanka devalued the currency by 3 percent in November to
boost exports. The central bank lowered the rupee’s trading band
against the dollar on Feb. 3, Feb. 6 and Feb. 9, prior to
announcing its removal. Central Bank of Sri Lanka Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said policy makers would “intervene” in the
 currency market  through “supply and not based on price.”  The dismantling of the trading band came after calls by the
 International Monetary Fund  for a more flexible  exchange rate .
Sri Lanka’s foreign-exchange reserves have dropped by about 25
percent from an unprecedented $8 billion last year, as the
central bank sold dollars to defend the local currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  