-- State Bank of India Shares Decline as Bad Loans Increase: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-02-13T10:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/state-bank-of-india-quarterly-profit-climbs-15-on-gains-in-lending-income.html
State Bank of India , the nation’s
largest lender, dropped in Mumbai trading as bad loans expanded
and capital buffers shrank in the third quarter.  Net income  climbed 15 percent to a record 32.6 billion
rupees ($664 million) for the three months ended Dec. 31, from
28.3 billion rupees a year earlier, according to a filing to BSE
Ltd. today, surpassing the 30.8 billion-rupee median of 39
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Still, the bad-loan
ratio widened to 2.22 percent from 1.61 percent.  Shares of State Bank headed for their second day of
declines on concern that an  economic slowdown  may trigger more
defaults by borrowers. The lender last month said that it would
receive a 79 billion-rupee capital infusion from the government
to bolster risk buffers and help take its Tier I ratio above the
regulatory target of 8 percent.  “Asset quality is still a worry,”  Brian Hunsaker , an
analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong , said
by telephone today. “Even after the capital is injected, the
ratio will be low by international standards.”  Shares of State Bank  declined 2 percent to 2,129.25 rupees
as of the close of trading in Mumbai. The government-controlled
lender dropped 42 percent in 2011, the most in 18 years, as bad
debts increased and Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the
financial strength rating citing low risk buffers. The
government’s capital injection have helped drive shares up 32
percent this year.  Shrinking Risk Buffers  State Bank’s capital adequacy ratio under Basel II rules
narrowed to 11.6 percent at the end of December, from 12.11
percent a year earlier, according to the filing. The Tier I
ratio shrank to 7.59 percent from 8.52 percent, it said.  The government’s investment, along with profits, will push
 State Bank ’s Tier I capital ratio above 9 percent by March 31,
Chairman Pratip Chaudhuri told reporters in Mumbai today.  Moody’s downgraded the outlook for  India ’s banking system
in November to “negative,” citing concern that a domestic
slowdown and the surge in borrowing costs may boost bad loans.
 India’s economy  may expand 7 percent in the fiscal year through
March 31, according to a survey compiled by the central bank in
January. That’s lower than the 7.6 percent projected in October.  The bank’s net interest margin, a measure of its lending
profitability, widened in the quarter to 4.05 percent from 3.61
percent a year earlier, according to the filing. Net interest
income, or revenue from borrowers after deducting interest paid
to depositors, climbed 27 percent to 114.7 billion rupees.  Fees tied to debit cards and offering customers foreign-
exchange services, as well as income from distribution of mutual
funds and insurance products, fell 36 percent to 21.3 billion
rupees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  