-- Swiss Stocks Climb as Greece Approves Austerity Deal; Credit Suisse Rises
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-02-13T16:46:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/swiss-stocks-climb-as-greek-parliament-approves-austerity-deal.html
Swiss stocks  rose, erasing last
week’s slide, as Greece’s Prime Minister,  Lucas Papademos , won a
parliamentary vote to approve an austerity package that the
country needed to obtain further financial aid.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest
lenders, advanced at least 1.5 percent after Greek lawmakers
voted for the legislation in the early hours of this morning.
 Zurich Financial (ZURN)  Services AG, the country’s largest insurer,
climbed 1.7 percent after Chief Executive Officer Martin Senn
said that resolving a U.S. tax conflict is “crucial” for its
business in the country, according to a report.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the largest and most
actively traded companies, increased 0.8 percent to 6,177.44 at
the close in Zurich. The gauge has advanced  4.1 percent this
year  as investors speculated that policy makers will contain the
euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis. The broader Swiss Performance
Index added 0.7 percent today.  “Investors are relieved after the Greeks passed austerity
measures, which was the absolute minimum requirement to allow
the other euro-area nations to approve the bailout,” said
Witold Bahrke, a senior strategist at PFA Pension A/S in
Copenhagen, which manages $45 billion. “This year’s rally will
slow as more uncertainty has been added to market conditions and
a Greek euro exit is no longer a negligible option.”  Finance Ministers’ Meeting  Euro-area finance ministers will convene in Brussels on
Feb. 15 in an extraordinary meeting that they called after
declining in a special session on Feb. 9 to ratify a 130
billion-euro ($172 billion) rescue package for  Greece . The
ministers had demanded that Greece’s political parties enshrine
their verbal commitments in law.  Greece faces a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20
and must secure financing to avert a collapse of the economy
that may lead to further contagion in the euro area.  UBS rose 1.6 percent to 12.93 Swiss francs, while Credit
Suisse climbed 1.5 percent to 24 francs.  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN)  rose 2.1 percent to 101.20 francs.
SonntagsZeitung reported that the insurer will reveal additional
cost-cutting measures later this year, citing three unidentified
people close to the board of directors.  Zurich Financial increased 1.7 percent to 233 francs after
NZZ am Sonntag reported Senn as saying that the company needs to
maintain a “friendly dialogue” with the U.S. authorities
because the world’s largest economy generates 40 percent of its
business.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  rose 1.1 percent to 51.75 francs, making the
biggest contribution to the  SMI’s advance . The U.S. Food and
Drug Administration asked for more data on the drugmaker’s
Menveo meningitis vaccine before it approves the use of the
vaccine for toddlers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  