-- U.K. Is Poised to Avoid Recession as Stabilization Signs Emerge: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-13T11:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/u-k-is-poised-to-avoid-recession-as-stabilization-signs-emerge-economy.html
The  U.K. economy  will escape a
recession and the recovery will gain momentum this year,
avoiding the need for more quantitative easing by the  Bank of
England , the  Confederation of British Industry  said.  “After a pretty stagnant winter where we flatlined, we
think growth is starting again because we’ve got tentative signs
of optimism,” CBI Director-General  John Cridland  said in an
interview in London on Feb. 10. “There will be marginal
growth” this quarter and “we’re not assuming in our growth
forecasts that there will be a further package of QE.”  The Bank of England announced its latest round of  bond
purchases  on Feb. 9 after the economy shrank in the fourth
quarter amid turmoil from the euro-area debt crisis, bringing
Britain to the edge of a recession. Cridland said sentiment had
improved in recent weeks as signs of “stabilization” emerged
in  Europe  and the global economy showed signs of resilience.
Stocks advanced today and the euro strengthened after Greek
lawmakers approved austerity plans to secure rescue funds.  “Economic conditions will continue to be tough, especially
in the first half of the year, and the U.K. recovery will depend
on the successful resolution of the euro-zone crisis,” Cridland
said. “Although risks remain, we expect growth this year,
improving modestly in 2013, primarily driven by positive net
trade and business investment.”  Stocks Advance  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  added 0.5 percent as of
11:03 a.m. in London, while the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  gained
0.8 percent. Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed
0.6 percent, indicating the U.S. gauge will climb for the fourth
time in five days. The euro strengthened 0.5 percent against the
dollar to $1.3261.  Passage of the Greek austerity bill puts the spotlight on a
meeting of euro-region finance ministers on Feb. 15 that must
decide whether to approve the second aid package for the nation.  Demands from the European Commission, European Central Bank
and  International Monetary Fund  “show the kind of pressure the
troika is ready to continue to put on  Greece ,”  Gilles Moec , co-
chief European economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London, said in
a Bloomberg Television interview. “The Europeans are not ready
to create any kind of leeway to Greece; it has to give
everything.”  Japan Shrinks  In  Asia  today,  Japan ’s Cabinet Office said the economy
shrank an annualized 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter, more
than economists estimated, as slumping exports undermined a
recovery from last year’s record earthquake. The contraction
compared with the median forecast for a 1.3 percent decline in a
Bloomberg News survey of 26 economists.  The report underscores the pressure on  Bank of Japan 
officials meeting today and tomorrow to consider more monetary
easing as gains in the yen threaten to curb growth.  The Bank of  England  raised its bond-purchase target by 50
billion pounds ($79 billion) to 325 billion pounds on Feb 9.
Governor  Mervyn King  will hold a press conference on Feb. 15 to
publish the central bank’s new growth and inflation forecasts.  In other economic reports today, German wholesale-price
inflation remained at 3 percent in January, while Swiss  producer
and import prices  dropped more than economists forecast as
companies lowered costs to address cooling growth.  Mexico  may
report that industrial production grew 0.5 percent in December
from the previous month after a 0.1 percent gain in November.  U.K. Forecasts  In the U.K., sentiment among CBI member companies has
picked up in the past few months after the  European Central Bank 
increased liquidity to the banking system in the euro area,
Britain’s largest export market, and the U.S. and German
economies showed signs of improvement, Cridland said. ECB
President  Mario Draghi  signaled last week that the euro-region
economic outlook had strengthened, saying recent data shows
signs of “stabilization” amid Europe’s debt crisis.  While U.K.  gross domestic product  will rise less this year
than previously forecast due to the 0.2 percent fourth-quarter
slump, growth has restarted and “will pick up” during 2012,
Cridland said. The economy will expand 0.9 percent this year and
2 percent in 2013, the CBI, the U.K.’s largest business lobby
group, said.  In a separate report, accountancy firm BDO LLP said its
business optimism index rose the most in 11 months. The index
forecasts business confidence two quarters ahead, suggesting the
economy could begin to recover in the second half of 2012,
London-based BDO said in an e-mailed statement.  Data this week will show U.K.  inflation  probably slowed to
a 14-month low in January and jobless claims increased for an
11th month, according to economist surveys.  Consumer prices rose an annual 3.6 percent after a 4.2
percent gain in December, the median forecast of 36 estimates
showed.  Jobless claims  rose 3,000, according to the median of 24
estimates in another survey.  The inflation data is released tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. in
 London , while the unemployment report is published on Feb. 15  “Back in November, we had reached rock bottom,” Cridland
said. “A couple of months on, I think the storm clouds are not
as black as they were. There are tentative signs of optimism,
particularly for those who can take advantage of growth outside
Europe, elsewhere in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  