-- U.K. Stocks Climb as Greek Lawmakers Agree on Austerity Package
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-02-13T16:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/u-k-stocks-climb-as-greek-lawmakers-agree-on-austerity-package.html
U.K. stocks  climbed to the highest
level since July, rebounding from last week’s drop, as Greek
lawmakers approved austerity measures to obtain a financial
rescue package.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc (CW/)  rallied 45 percent as
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s largest mobile-phone company,
said it’s evaluating a bid for the telecommunications services
provider.  Anglo American (AAL)  Plc led gains in mining companies.  The  FTSE 100  Index rose 53.31, or 0.9 percent, to 5,905.7
at the close in London, the highest since July 26. The measure
has advanced 6 percent this year amid signs the  U.S. economy  is
improving. The  FTSE-All Share Index (ASX)  also climbed 0.9 percent
today and Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.1 percent.  The Greek parliament passed the legislation in the early
morning hours today as rioters battled police and set fire to
buildings in downtown Athens. Euro-area finance ministers will
convene in Brussels on Feb. 15 to discuss the measures. Last
week, they declined to ratify the 130 billion-euro ($172
billion) package, demanding that Greek officials put their
austerity commitments into law.  “Greek politicians have effectively thrown the ball back
into the court of eurogroup finance ministers,” said  Michael Hewson , a markets analyst at CMC Markets in  London . They “are
due to meet on Wednesday, where they will have to either ratify
the agreement, or reject it as insufficient, and demand more
austerity measures.”  A total of 199 Greek lawmakers voted in favor of the
austerity measures, with 74 against, Parliament Speaker Filippos
Petsalnikos said.  ‘One Way or Another’  Greece  “will be saved in one way or another,” German
Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble told newspaper Welt am
Sonntag yesterday.  The European Financial Stability Facility will supply a
“significant” portion of aid needed for Greece’s rescue,
WirtschaftsWoche reported, citing EFSF Deputy Chief Executive
Officer Christophe Frankel. The EFSF will make its contribution
in coming months and the period thereafter, the German magazine
cited Frankel as saying.  U.K. stocks fell last week as Greece’s coalition government
failed to agree on the remaining spending cuts needed to obtain
financial aid from the European Union and stave off a default.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide  surged 45 percent to 28.54
pence, the highest since November. Vodafone rose 1 percent to
174.4 pence.  Potential Bid  Vodafone is in early stages of evaluating a potential offer
for  Cable & Wireless . A bid for Cable & Wireless will probably
be in cash, Vodafone said in statement today. Vodafone may offer
700 million pounds ($1.1 billion), the Sunday Times of London
reported yesterday.  “There is no certainty that an offer will be made nor as
to the terms on which any offer might be made,” Vodafone said
in its statement.  Cable & Wireless Plc split into two companies -- Cable &
Wireless Worldwide and  Cable & Wireless Communications Plc (CWC)  -- in
March 2010. Cable & Wireless Communications climbed 4.7 percent
to 38.02 pence today.  Anglo American gained 2.6 percent to 2,817 pence and Rio
Tinto Group added 2 percent to 3,845.5 pence.  Fidessa Group Plc (FDSA)  lost 4.8 percent to 1,616 pence, the
largest drop since October, after the financial-software
developer said market conditions will remain difficult for some
time.  1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  