-- U.S. Expansion of 2.7% Seen in Obama Budget Exceeds Economists’ Estimates
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-02-13T19:18:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/u-s-expansion-of-2-7-seen-in-obama-budget-exceeds-economists-estimates.html
The Obama administration’s budget
predicts the  U.S. economy  will grow 2.7 percent this year, a
forecast that’s more optimistic than those of private economists
and Federal Reserve policy makers.  The White House raised the 2012 estimate from 2.6 percent
in September. Economists forecast an expansion of 2.2 percent at
an annual rate, according to the median of 79 estimates in a
survey by Bloomberg News conducted from Feb. 3 to Feb. 9.  “Today, we are seeing signs that our economy is on the
mend,” President  Barack Obama  said in a letter to Congress
accompanying the 2013 budget proposal and the projections. “But
we are not out of the woods yet. We need to finish the work we
started last year by extending the payroll tax cut and
 unemployment  benefits for the rest of this year.”  The White House’s growth forecast for 2013 was cut to 3
percent from 3.5 percent in September. The administration’s
projections released today are based on information available as
of November.  The president’s economic team has become more optimistic
about the economy, leading them to lower their unemployment
forecast. Obama’s advisers see employers adding 2 million jobs
this year if administration policies are adopted, Alan Krueger,
chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said
in a statement Feb. 8.  Unemployment Rate  That may bring the  unemployment rate  closer to 8 percent by
the November election, Krueger said, while the numbers released
today foresee an average rate of 8.9 percent this year. Krueger
called the November-based predictions, which also forecast an
8.6 percent jobless rate for 2013, “stale and out of date.”  “The economic forecast underpinning the president’s budget
is perfectly reasonable,” said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “It is
very consistent with my projections.  While the budget’s near-
term real GDP growth outlook is a bit higher than the
consensus, its unemployment rate outlook is also higher.”  Zandi said the threats to the outlook, including the
European debt crisis and dropping housing prices, “appear
increasingly less threatening, and judging by the recent job and
other economic data, the economy is on increasingly more
solid ground.”  Fifth Decline  Unemployment last month fell to 8.3 percent, the fifth
consecutive decline.  “While concerns lingered over the financial developments
in  Europe  and the risk they posed to the U.S. economy, the pace
of real GDP growth increased in the second half” of last year,
the White House said in a statement.  While the Obama administration’s projection on a yearly
basis is for 2.7 percent growth, the forecast is 3 percent when
comparing the fourth quarter of last year to the fourth quarter
of this year. That tops Fed policy makers’ projections of 2.2
percent to 2.7 percent.  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates a 1.8 percent
increase for this year on an annual basis.  The White House projections released today call for GDP
growth of 3.6 percent in 2014 and 4.1 percent in 2015. They
foresee the jobless rate dropping to 8.1 percent in 2014 and 7.3
percent in 2015.  In today’s budget report, the administration projected the
 consumer price index  would rise 2.2 percent this year, 1.9
percent in 2013 and 2 percent the following year.  Yields on 10-year Treasury notes are expected to be 2.8
percent this year, 3.5 percent in 2013 and 3.9 percent the
following year, according to the projections released today. The
yield was 1.96 percent at 11:04 a.m. today in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  