-- Multifamily Buildings to Lead U.S. Construction Gains: Economy
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-13T15:46:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/multifamily-buildings-to-lead-u-s-construction-gains-this-year-economy.html
Construction of multifamily units
will lead the U.S. building industry again this year, allowing
housing to contribute to growth for the first time in seven
years, according to economists  Michelle Meyer  and  Celia Chen .  Work will begin on about 260,000 apartment buildings and
townhouse developments in 2012, up 45 percent from last year and
the most since 2008, according to Meyer, a senior economist at
Bank of America Corp. in  New York . Chen, an economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , is even more
optimistic, projecting a record 74 percent jump to 310,000.  Home ownership rates, which have declined to the lowest
levels since 1998, may keep dropping as the foreclosure crisis
turns more Americans into renters. In addition, household
formation will probably accelerate as an improving economy and
growing employment embolden more people to stop sharing
residences and strike out on their own.  “Given the ongoing shift from owning to renting, there is
increasing demand for multifamily construction,” Meyer said in
an interview. “Foreclosures are transitioning people out of
ownership.”  Stocks rose today as  Greece  approved austerity plans to
secure rescue funds. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3
percent to 1,346.58 at 10:45 a.m. in New York.  In  Europe  today, the  Confederation of British Industry  said
the U.K. economy will escape a recession and the recovery will
gain momentum this year, avoiding the need for more quantitative
easing by the  Bank of England .  Japan Contracts  Japan ’s economy shrank an annualized 2.3 percent in the
fourth quarter, more than economists estimated, as slumping
exports undermined a recovery from last year’s record
earthquake, other data showed today.  The projected increases in U.S. multifamily construction
extend gains in that began with a 6.8 percent increase in 2010
and a 54 percent surge last year to 178,300 units, according to
figures from the Commerce Department. That portion of the market
reached a record-low of 108,900 units in 2009 after declining
for four consecutive years.  By contrast, starts on  single-family  homes fell last year
to 428,600, the fewest in five decades of data. Bank of
America’s Meyer projects single-family construction will grow 5
percent this year.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week
highlighted the weakness in housing as limiting the economic
expansion that began in June 2009.  Bernanke’s View  “The state of the housing sector has been a key impediment
to a faster recovery,” Bernanke told the annual convention of
homebuilders in  Orlando ,  Florida , on Feb. 10. “Homebuilding
remains depressed in most areas,” he said. “In contrast to the
situation for owner-occupied homes, rental markets around the
country have strengthened somewhat. Rents have been increasing
and the construction of apartment buildings has picked up.”  A lack of investment in residential real estate subtracted
0.03 percentage point from economic growth last year, the
smallest decline since the industry last expanded in 2005.  A report later this week may show  housing starts  opened the
year on a positive note. Builders broke ground on 675,000 houses
in January, up 2.7 percent from the prior month, according to
the  median forecast  of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before Commerce Department data on Feb. 16.  One reason why multifamily units may rebound faster than
single-family houses is the drop in demand. The  homeownership
rate  fell in the fourth quarter to 66 percent, according to
Commerce Department data. It peaked at 69.2 percent in the
second quarter of 2004 and fell to a 13-year low of 65.9 percent
in the second quarter of 2011.  More Foreclosures  An increase in foreclosures may push the rate down even
more. Lenders had slowed the pace of home seizures as they
negotiated with  attorneys general  in all 50 states for more than
a year over allegations of faulty and fraudulent paperwork used
to repossess homes. That delayed the clearing of the market
necessary to any recovery and increased demand for rental units.  The rental  vacancy rate  fell to 9.4 percent in the last
three months of 2011 from 9.8 percent in the previous three
months, according to data from the Census Bureau. It reached a
nine-year low of 9.2 percent from April through June of last
year.  Rental payments climbed 2.5 percent in 2011, the biggest
gain since 2008, Labor Department figures showed.  Apartment real estate investment trusts such as  AvalonBay
Communities Inc. (AVB)  have profited from the turn to rentals. It’s up
235 percent since its recession low on March 2, 2009, through
Feb. 10. During the same period, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
is up 92 percent.  Strengthening Demand  “Apartments should benefit once again in 2012 from a
combination of gradually improving labor market, a weak for-sale
market, favorable demographics and modest levels of new
supply,” Tim Naughton, chief executive officer at AvalonBay,
said on a Feb. 2 earnings call. “We expect that demand will
outpace supply again this year, which would propel operating
performance and result in another strong year for AvalonBay.”  The jobless rate dropped to 8.3 in January, the lowest
level in three years, and employers in the world’s largest
economy add 243,000 workers to payrolls, according to a Labor
Department report this month.  The improvement will contribute to an increase in the
number of households being formed, further stoking demand for
rental housing, according to economists like  Patrick Newport  at
IHS Global Insight in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  “We will see a surge in household formation because of
pent-up demand as people move away from their parents,” Newport
said. “We will see a pickup in housing where there is a much
stronger pickup in multifamily.”  IHS forecasts 1.5 million households will be formed in the
12 months through March 2013 from an estimated 972,000 in the
year through March 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 