-- Hungary Central Bank Takes $3.1 Billion in Swap Bids
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-13T12:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/hungary-central-bank-takes-3-1-billion-in-swap-bids-correct-.html
(Corrects conversion in first paragraph.)  Hungary ’s central bank accepted 2.34
billion euros ($3.11 billion) in foreign-currency swap bids from
local lenders to ease pressure on the forint from the early
repayment of  mortgage loans  at below market exchange rates.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  paid out 1.57 billion euros to
lenders from October to January, the central bank said in a
 summary  of the transactions posted on its website today.  The government forced commercial banks to swallow exchange-
rate losses on foreign currency denominated mortgages by giving
the option for borrowers to repay their loans in a lump sum at
below-market rates. Two-thirds of housing loans were denominated
in foreign currencies, mostly in Swiss francs, and installments
on them soared as the forint weakened.  The central bank allowed domestic lenders to tap its
foreign currency reserves to cope with an expected increase in
demand for Swiss francs and euro.  The offer was aimed at easing depreciation pressures on the
forint, which fell to a record-low against the euro last month
and was the worst-performing currency in the world in the second
half of last year. The forint strengthened 1.4 percent against
the euro to 290.4 per euro at 1:39 p.m. in Budapest today,
rising the most in two weeks.  Hungarian banks lost 210 billion forint ($958 million) on
the early repayment plan, the financial regulator PSZAF said in
a report published on Feb. 8. Lenders were able to deduct part
of an extraordinary bank tax from their losses, which cut the
total cost of the mortgage initiative by 88 billion forint.  Foreign-Currency Loans  About 160,000 borrowers are estimated to have taken
advantage of the plan until a Dec. 31 deadline, repaying 19
percent of the total outstanding foreign currency debt at
financial institutions, PSZAF said on Feb. 7. Ninety-six percent
of the repaid mortgage loans were denominated in Swiss francs.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest lender, competes mostly
with units of international banks including  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Bayerische
Landesbank AG,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , and   Intesa Sanpaolo SpA. (ISP)   Hungary’s foreign currency reserves dropped 12 percent in
January from December, according to central bank data published
on Feb. 7. Foreign currency reserves fell to 31.1 billion euros
at the end of January from 35.1 billion euros at the end of
December. Total reserves dropped to 37.3 billion euros from 37.8
billion euros in the same period as an increase in “other
reserve assets” tempered the drop.  The forint has been the best-performing currency this year
as investors speculate that Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  will obtain a loan from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund . Formal talks on the loan haven’t
started because of objections from the institutions to an array
of legislations, including a new central bank law, which Orban
has pledged to change to clear the way for a bailout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  