-- Muni-Bond Tax-Break Curbs, Build America Revival Are Sought in Obama Plan
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-02-13T17:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/muni-bond-tax-break-curbs-build-america-revival-are-sought-in-obama-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  is seeking to
limit the tax breaks wealthy investors can receive on municipal
securities and to revive the Build America Bonds program, which
allowed states and localities to sell federally subsidized debt.  In the proposed 2013 budget released today, Obama reprised
his call to cap deductions, including tax-exempt interest, for
families earning more than $250,000 a year. He also wants to
revive Build Americas, taxable bonds whose interest bills are
paid in part by the federal government. Obama also proposed
lifting restrictions that prevent states and cities from
refinancing bonds.  The president’s proposals may face obstacles in Congress,
where Republicans have resisted his plans to raise taxes on the
highest earners. The Build America program, created under
Obama’s economic-stimulus plan, lapsed at the end of 2010 amid
opposition from Republicans. Bids to revive it have stalled.  “We have to take everything the president wants to do in
this political environment with a grain of salt,” Matt Fabian,
an analyst with Municipal Market Advisors in Concord,
 Massachusetts , said before Obama’s plan was released. “With the
inability of people in Washington to get anything done, there
won’t be an immediate effect on the market.”  Tribal Bonds  Separately, the president proposed lifting some
restrictions on the ability of American  Indian tribes  to issue
municipal bonds by allowing them to operate under rules similar
to those that now apply to states and localities.  Today’s budget recommendation is Obama’s final blueprint
for taxes and spending before the November election. In
September, he introduced his plan to limit the use of tax-exempt
interest to lower rates. His deficit-cutting commission also
proposed eliminating the exemption.  The suggestion that Congress should move to pare the tax-
breaks have raised concerns among investors in the $3.7 trillion
municipal-bond market. They say the exemption faces a greater
risk after the election if politicians in Congress agree on ways
to cut the  budget deficit . The exemption costs the U.S. about
$37 billion a year, according to the Office of Management and
Budget.  “We still don’t think it has much of a chance this year,
at least prior to the election,” said John Hallacy, a Bank of
America Merrill Lynch municipal bond analyst in  New York . “But
the topic keeps coming up. It does get caught up in the tax-
reform discussion that will start up in a serious way after the
election.”  Reaction Muted  The president’s proposals had little influence today on the
municipal market, said Ken Kollar, a trader with Arbor Research
& Trading Inc. in New York. Yields were little changed, and
global issues such as the European debt crisis are the main
drivers for fixed income, he said.  Curbs on the tax-exemption, if enacted, could diminish the
appeal of munis by limiting the tax benefits investors receive.
Because the interest is exempt from federal income tax,
investors are willing to accept lower returns, which hold down
borrowing costs for local governments.  The president’s proposal would cap the value of itemized
 tax deductions  for top earners at 28 percent. Those in the top
marginal tax bracket get a benefit of as much as 35 percent from
such deductions because that’s the rate they would otherwise
have to pay on their highest earnings.  The federal budget also seeks to reintroduce Build America
bonds while cutting the subsidy. The U.S. pays 35 percent of the
interest costs on Build Americas that were sold before the
program lapsed. Obama proposes bringing them back at 30 percent
for two years before cutting the rate to 28 percent, which would
make it no more costly than the tax-exemption given to
traditional muni bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  