-- News Corp.’s Sun Decries Arrest of Journalists as Murdoch Flies to London
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-02-13T18:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/murdoch-flies-to-london-as-sun-arrests-increase-push-for-press-regulation.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Sun, the best-selling
U.K. newspaper, said multiple police and government inquiries
into the press are hurting free speech and constitute a “witch
hunt,” following the arrest of five of its employees.  “In what would at any other time cause uproar in
Parliament and among civil liberty and human rights campaigners,
its journalists are being treated like members of an organized
crime gang,” Trevor Kavanagh, associate editor, wrote in the
newspaper today. While New York-based News Corp. is right to
hand over evidence, some reporters “have been held, at least on
the evidence so far revealed, for simply doing their jobs” for
the company, he said.  Five Sun journalists were arrested during the weekend as
part of police investigations into bribery of U.K. officials.
News Corp. Chief Executive Officer  Rupert Murdoch  is flying to
London this week to reassure employees, a person familiar with
his plans said on condition of anonymity Feb. 11.  Murdoch reaffirmed his “total commitment to continue to
own and publish the Sun,” according to a memo obtained by
Bloomberg News and sent from News International Ltd. CEO  Tom Mockridge  to the tabloid’s workers.  News Corp. created a Management and Standards Committee to
assist police after reporters at its U.K. News of the World
newspaper hacked into the voicemail of murdered schoolgirl  Milly
Dowler  for stories. News Corp. shut the tabloid in July.  New Press Rules  Paying for stories is common practice and “has been
standard procedure as long as newspapers have existed,”
Kavanagh said. “There is nothing disreputable about it. And, as
far as we know at this point, nothing illegal.”  Kavanagh also criticized what he says are overly large
numbers of officers and resources that the  Metropolitan Police
Service , London’s police force, have been using to run the three
investigations into phone hacking, computer hacking, and
improper payments.  “Given the seriousness of the allegations currently under
investigation and the significant number of victims,” the
police said in a separate statement, “the MPS does not believe
that the level of resources devoted to the three inquiries is in
any way disproportionate to the enormous task at hand.”  The police have 169 officers on the three investigations,
they said in the statement, adding that as many as 10 police
went to each of the arrested reporters and editors’ homes.  Media Consensus  U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  said an agreement is
emerging on changes to press regulation after newspaper
executives and hacking victims gave testimony in nearly three
months of hearings on media ethics.  “We’ve come much closer to a consensus on the way forward
than I would perhaps have predicted” Hunt, whose department
oversees the media, told BBC television yesterday. “Everyone
agrees that we don’t want the state regulating content” and
that the industry should take the lead, he said.  The inquiry led by Judge Brian Leveson was set up last year
by Prime Minister  David Cameron  in response to the phone-hacking
scandal. Police are also probing alleged computer hacking and
bribery of police by the company’s journalists, leading to more
than 30 arrests.  ‘Clean Up’  “I would like Rupert Murdoch to stand up for clean
investigative journalism and I’d like him to clean up what went
on at News International,”  Tom Watson , the opposition  Labour
Party  lawmaker who has been at the forefront of a separate
parliamentary probe into phone-hacking, told BBC television
yesterday. “I just want him to take responsibility for what’s
happened at this company, and thus far there are a lot of people
lower down the food chain who’ve carried the can for this.”  Watson said Murdoch was not a “fit and proper person” to
hold a television broadcasting license at  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , in which News Corp. is the largest
shareholder.  The five journalists arrested two days ago were Geoff
Webster, deputy editor of The Sun; reporter John Sturgis;
picture editor  John Edwards ; chief reporter John Kay; and chief
foreign correspondent Nick Parker, according to Mockridge’s
memo. A police officer, a member of the armed forces and a
Ministry of Defense employee were also detained.  ‘Not Be Repeated’  News Corp.’s Management and Standards Committee provided
the information to London’s Metropolitan Police, which led to
the arrests, according to a company statement. “News Corp.
remains committed to ensuring that unacceptable news-gathering
practices by individuals in the past will not be repeated,” the
company said.  News International has agreed to pay $15.6 million in
settlements to victims of phone hacking.  Speaking on the BBC yesterday, Hunt said that a replacement
for the media’s current Press Complaints Commission regulator
will need to be “tougher,” though he was waiting to hear what
Leveson would recommend. The inquiry in  London  has been hearing
testimony from newspaper owners, journalists, celebrities and
victims of phone hacking.  Hunt said there could be no possibility of some proprietors
opting out of any new arrangements, as  Richard Desmond , the
owner of Express Newspapers Group, has done from the PCC.  “I would like it to be an industry-led system, but it
needs to be properly independent of newspaper proprietors and
newspaper editors, and if a newspaper is going to be punished
for stepping out of line, then it needs to be a credible
punishment,” Hunt said. “I would love the industry to come to
me with their proposed solution, but what I would say to them is
that whatever you propose must have the confidence of the
public, because the public are not happy with what’s been going
on.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  