-- Turkey’s Current Account Deficit Narrows for Second Month
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-02-13T09:26:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/turkey-s-current-account-deficit-narrows-for-second-month-1-.html
Turkey ’s  current-account gap 
narrowed for a second month in December after reaching a record
high last year that helped cause a plunge in the lira.  The deficit was $6.6 billion, compared with $7.5 billion in
December 2010, the central bank in Ankara said on its website
today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg  survey  of nine
economists was $6.5 billion.  The 12-month cumulative deficit shrank to $77.1 billion,
about 10 percent of gross domestic product, extending the
previous month’s decline, the first for two years. Easing
concern about Turkey’s ability to finance the gap has helped the
lira gain 7.6 percent against the dollar this year, recouping
some of last year’s 18 percent loss, the biggest among emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The deficit will drop to 7.5 percent of GDP by the end of
this year and “we do not see any significant funding issues,”
 Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist for the region at  Morgan Stanley &
Co . in  London , said in an e-mail.  Tim Ash, the head of emerging-market research at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in London, said the adjustment in the
deficit “is moving ahead only slowly, and that will remain
Turkey’s Achilles heel this year.”  The central bank spent about $15 billion of its foreign
exchange reserves since August last year to support the lira,
Governor Erdem Basci said Jan. 6. The lira rose 0.4 percent to
1.755 per dollar at 11 a.m. in Istanbul.  Turkey’s  reserves  stood at $77 billion as of Feb. 3,
equivalent to about four months of imports and down from a peak
of $93.9 billion in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@blooberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 