-- Venezuela Bonds Gain as Chavez Rival Wins Primary Landslide: Caracas Mover
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-02-13T21:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/venezuela-bonds-rally-as-capriles-wins-presidential-primary-caracas-mover.html
Venezuelan bonds rallied after
opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski won more than 60
percent of the vote in a nationwide primary, a margin of victory
that analysts said could strengthen his bid to unseat President
 Hugo Chavez  in October elections.  The yield on  Venezuela ’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds due
in 2027 fell 30 basis points, or 0.30 percentage point, to 11.80
percent, the lowest since April 2010, at 3:30 p.m. in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose
1.75 cents to 82 cents on the dollar.  Capriles, a 39-year-old governor of Miranda state who
promises to gradually unwind Chavez-imposed state controls on
the economy, won the South American country’s first presidential
primary with 1.8 million votes. The margin of victory and
stronger-than-expected voter turnout of almost 3 million people
increase the possibility of a “democratic and peaceful
transition” in 2013, providing support to Venezuelan assets,
Barclays Plc said in a note to clients.  “The global risk rally has helped Venezuelan bonds but the
political issue is beginning to be a catalyst that could give
them more of a boost,” Alejandro Arreaza, an analyst at
Barclays in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “Even
though Capriles is behind in polls for the presidential
election, with this momentum he could close the gap quickly and
he emerges as a strong leader of a unified opposition.”  Pablo Perez, who had 30 percent of the vote, and Maria
Corina Machado, with about 5 percent of the vote, both announced
their support for Capriles after yesterday’s primary.  Yield Spread  Chavez, 57, has said that he will win a third-consecutive
six-year term in presidential elections on Oct. 7 regardless of
who the opposition candidate is. He says that he’s now “cancer
free” after having a tumor removed in June and receiving
chemotherapy treatment late last year.  The extra yield investors demand to own Venezuelan bonds
over U.S. Treasuries narrowed 39 basis points to 1,045 today,
the lowest level on a closing basis since May 2010, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index. That compares to a 30
basis point drop for  Argentina  and a 12 basis point decline on
average in  Latin America .  Venezuela has the highest borrowing costs of emerging-
market countries in the EMBI Global after Belize and  Pakistan .  Bonds of state-run oil company Petroleos de Venezuela SA
also surged today. The yield on PDVSA’s 4.9 percent bonds due in
2014 fell 51 basis points to 10.72 percent today, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose 1.08 cents to
86.66 cents on the dollar.  ‘Temporary Boost’  “We expect a post-nomination boost in Capriles’ poll
numbers, but also expect this boost to be temporary,”  Francisco Rodriguez , an economist at Bank of America Corp. in New York,
said in a note to clients. “We continue to see a Chavez victory
in the October elections as the most likely scenario.”  Nationally, Chavez was leading voter preferences with 47.3
percent support, compared with 44.9 percent for Capriles,
according to a December poll by Caracas-based Consultores 21,
published by Barclays in a separate note to clients. The report
did not specify dates or a margin of error for the survey.  The cost of protecting Venezuelan debt against non-payment
for five years with credit-default swaps fell 28 basis points to
794, according to data compiled by CMA in  London . Credit-default
swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the underlying
securities or the cash equivalent should a government or company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  ‘Country in Crisis’  While pledging to reverse some of Chavez’s economic
policies that have fueled an inflation rate of 26 percent, the
highest of 78 countries tracked by Bloomberg, and left the
economy dependent on oil-financed fiscal spending, Capriles has
said the process would be gradual. He’s cited the more than 70
free health clinics in poor neighborhoods of Miranda and a
subsidized food program for low-income families as proof of how
he’d continue a more efficient version of Chavez’s social
initiatives.  “Our country is in crisis and we have a government that
only cares about politics,” Capriles said last night in his
victory speech in front of thousands of supporters waving flags
and dancing. “We’re going to take this country into the 21st
century.”  Capriles has said that he’d temporarily maintain currency
controls to avoid a plunge in the bolivar and leave subsidized
gasoline prices unchanged.  ‘Market Positive’  “The result, although somewhat expected, is still market
positive,”  Alberto Ramos , an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., said in a note to clients following yesterday’s vote.
“President Chavez will face in October perhaps the most serious
challenge to his hitherto solid grip on power, the economy, and
the country overall.”  Investors will probably begin to focus on polling data now
to gauge Capriles’ momentum in a head-to-head race against
Chavez and the president’s public appearances as he recovers
from cancer, Alfredo Viegas, managing director of  emerging
markets  at  Knight Capital  in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said in a
telephone interview.  “We’re going to phase into poll watching mentality and if
it starts to show some significant momentum past the high 40
percent levels, that’s going to galvanize the market more,”
Viegas said. “There’s potential for the  risk premium  to erode
significantly, especially where similarly trading emerging
market dollar sovereigns are trading.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  