-- Venezuela’s Opposition Picks Capriles in Bid to Outflank Chavez
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-02-13T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/venezuela-s-opposition-picks-capriles-in-bid-to-outflank-chavez.html
Henrique Capriles Radonski, who aims
to outflank President  Hugo Chavez  in October’s vote by promising
to defend gains made by the poor during his 13 years in power,
won a landslide victory in Venezuela’s opposition primary.  The 39-year-old Miranda state governor won with 64 percent
of the vote in yesterday’s primary, compared with 31 percent for
Zulia state Governor Pablo Perez, Teresa Albanes, head of the
primary electoral council, said on Globovision. About 95 percent
of the votes had been counted, she said.  “We’ve come to build a future for all Venezuelans,”
Capriles told thousands of supporters outside his campaign
headquarters in Caracas. “The message is very clear:
Venezuelans are fed up with confrontation and divisions.”  Capriles has pledged stability in the polarized country
should he defeat Chavez in the Oct. 7 vote by maintaining social
programs and only gradually unwinding state control over the
economy. That may enable him to capture votes from among the
poor who make up more than half of the electorate and represent
Chavez’s bedrock support, said Carlos Romero, a political
analyst at the Universidad Central de  Venezuela  in Caracas.  “Capriles’ strategy has been to not confront or threaten
President Chavez and his socialism directly in an effort to
recover some of the undecided voters and to capture some
disgruntled Chavez supporters,” Romero said. “The policy has
been to reach out to the undecided.”  Capriles frequently refers to how he has set up more than
70 free health clinics in poor neighborhoods of Miranda and
financed a subsidized food program for low-income families as
proof of how he’ll continue a more efficient version of Chavez’s
social programs.  Economic Platform  The grandson of a Polish Jew who fled Nazi persecution and
founded the local unit of  East Hanover , New Jersey-based Nabisco
Inc., Capriles says he favors former Brazilian President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s mix of market-friendly economic policies
combined with income redistribution.  While pledging to unwind some of Chavez’s economic policies
that have fueled an inflation rate of 26 percent, the highest of
78 countries tracked by Bloomberg, and left the economy
dependent on oil-financed fiscal spending, Capriles said the
process will be gradual to ensure a soft landing.  Should he defeat Chavez, currency controls would be
maintained temporarily to avoid a slump in the value of the
bolivar, while heavily subsidized gasoline prices wouldn’t be
raised.  Voter Turnout  Voter turnout of more than 2.8 million exceeded the 2
million Capriles predicted last week. The turnout and the margin
of victory will give him momentum as he begins his campaign
against Chavez, said Jose Vicente Carrasquero, a political
analyst at the Universidad Central de Venezuela.  “The strength of the victory by Capriles will mean that
the rest of the opposition parties will now see him as a leader
who has popular support,” Carrasquero said in a phone
interview. “It could also draw in people indifferent to
politics and even some disgruntled Chavez supporters.”  Pablo Perez and Maria Corina Machado, who won 3.7 percent
of the vote, both pledged their support for Capriles’ campaign.  “Capriles, my good friend, count on me, you’ll be the next
president of Venezuela,” Perez said in Caracas on Globovision.
“A new leadership is born.”  Capriles is a “more viable presidential candidate than the
opposition has presented previously,” Credit Suisse analysts
Casey Reckman and  Igor Arsenin  wrote Feb. 10 in a note to
clients. “He espouses a gradualist, inclusive, left-of-center
but market friendly approach that could be appealing, rather
than polarizing, to independent and moderate Chavista voters.”  ‘21st Century Socialism’  Under his “21st century socialism,” Chavez has
expropriated more than 1,000 companies and assets and imposed
price controls on hundreds of products, leading to shortages of
staples such as milk.  Capriles has made efforts to distance himself from Chavez’s
style of leadership, saying he would impose presidential term
limits of two four-year periods after Chavez changed the
constitution to remove them.  Capriles has also promised a more proactive form of
government and criticized Chavez’s penchant for televised
speeches that last as long as nine and a half hours.  “You don’t build houses or make a country progress with
marathon speeches, that’s why we’re going to change the way of
doing politics and of governing Venezuela,” Capriles said Feb.
3. “We will work more and talk less.”  ‘Bourgeoisie’  “The result, although somewhat expected, is still market
positive,”  Alberto Ramos , an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc., said in a note to clients following yesterday’s vote.
“President Chavez will face in October perhaps the most serious
challenge to his hitherto solid grip on power, the economy, and
the country overall.”  Still, Chavez can point to an economy that is picking up
after contracting in 2009 and 2010. Record revenue for state-
owned Petroleos de Venezuela SA of $128 billion in 2011, after
crude prices rose 40 percent to an average of $101.06 a barrel
from the year earlier, allowed for a surge in public spending
that helped gross domestic product grow 4 percent.  “They’re all candidates of the bourgeoisie,” Chavez said
in comments broadcast on state television Feb. 9. “I’m waiting
to see who wins, because we’re going to demolish their ideas.”  Cinema Owners  Capriles, whose relatives own Suramericana de Espectaculos
SA, or Cinex, the country’s largest cinema chain by number of
theaters, has tried to avoid Chavez’s taunt that the opposition
represent the old elite renown for corruption and cronyism. At
age 26 he was elected president of the chamber of deputies and
vice president of congress, the youngest Venezuelan in history
to hold those positions.  After two terms as mayor of Baruta, a predominantly middle
class municipality in south eastern Caracas, he defeated
longtime Chavez ally and former vice president Diosdado Cabello
to win the governorship of Miranda, the second most populous
state in Venezuela.  Like Chavez, who was imprisoned for his role in a failed
attempt to overthrow the government of Carlos Andres Perez in
1992, Capriles spent four months in jail on charges of leading a
mob that attacked the Cuban embassy during a failed coup against
Chavez in 2002.  Capriles said he was trying to calm demonstrators by acting
as an intermediary. His case was thrown out for lack of evidence
and reopened four times by lower court justices. It remains
open. The Caracas-based Venezuelan Program for Education-Action
in Human Rights, or PROVEA, said his case is a “flagrant
violation of the right to a speedy trial.”  National Lead  Edward Gonzalez, 40, said he voted for Capriles looking for
a candidate that can challenge Chavez later this year, while
also seeking a break with the opposition’s old guard.  “He’s not with the old parties that are the reason why
Chavez is in power today, they’re to blame,” said Gonzalez,
after voting in 23 de Enero, a sprawling Caracas slum long
considered a pro-Chavez bastion. “Chavez has had 13 years to
improve things and he hasn’t done it.”  While the opposition has made ground on Chavez since he won
the 2006 election with 63 percent of the vote by capturing
Venezuela’s most populous, urbanized states, Chavez still holds
an advantage in rural areas and controls 17 out of 23 states.  Nationally, Chavez is leading voter preferences with 47.3
percent of support, compared with 44.9 percent for the
opposition candidate, according to a December poll by Caracas-
based Consultores 21, published by  Barclays Capital  in a note to
clients. The report did not specify dates or a margin of error
for the survey.  Chavez has portrayed the election as a choice between
“independence or colonialism, the future or the past.”  It is a rhetorical trap Capriles must not fall into, Romero
said.  “Capriles’ greatest challenge is to avoid a situation
where the election is polarized because that’s what Chavez is
going to try to do,” he said. “He needs to continue with this
strategy that has brought him results.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 