-- C&W Worldwide Hires Advisers Ahead of Potential Takeover Bid
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-02-13T17:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/vodafone-is-in-very-early-stages-of-evaluating-potential-offer-for-c-w.html
Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc ,
which jumped 45 percent in  London  trading after  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD)  said it’s evaluating a potential bid, hired NM Rothschild &
Sons Ltd. and  Barclays Capital  as advisers before any approach.  Any offer for the British fiber-network operator will
likely be in cash, Vodafone, the world’s largest mobile-phone
company, said today. Cable & Wireless, with a market value of
783 million pounds ($1.2 billion) after today’s gains, said
separately that it noted the approach.  Cable & Wireless, which has replaced two chief executive
officers since June and has assets ranging from the largest
British core fiber network to an overseas enterprise unit,
previously rejected a bid for part of the company. Newbury,
England-based Vodafone lacks a core fixed-line network in the
U.K., needed to carry surging data traffic.  “We would view an offer from Vodafone as a possibility
rather than a probability but given the assets you can
understand why they and others are running the rule,” Guy Peddy, an analyst at Macquarie in London, said via phone.
“ Cable & Wireless  has previously said there would be a lot of
re-engineering to separate the business into parts. It’s not
impossible but it does require work.”  Vodafone said it’s not certain that an offer will be made.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide rose 8.79 pence to close at a
three-month high of 28.54 pence. Vodafone added 1 percent to
174.40 pence. The operator has until March 12 to decide whether
to make a formal offer.  Revamp  Vodafone may offer 700 million pounds while Apax Partners
LLP may also consider a purchase, the Sunday Times reported
yesterday.  Apax’s spokesmen didn’t respond to calls seeking comment.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide, which separated from its parent
company in 2010, is revamping its business after CEO Jim Marsh
and his successor John Pluthero stepped down last year. Its
shares  slumped 74 percent  in the 12 months through Feb. 10.
Gavin Darby, who was appointed CEO in November, previously
headed Vodafone’s U.K. business and later oversaw its U.S.,
Africa, India and China operations.  While Cable & Wireless Worldwide assets are “particularly
unattractive,” U.K. mobile operators such as Vodafone and
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2 could make more use of its network
infrastructure,  Mark James , an analyst at  Liberum Capital  in
London, said in November.  Cable & Wireless Worldwide said in June it “considered and
rejected” an approach for its global business division. Pacnet
Ltd. CEO Bill Barney said on Sept. 14 that operator of undersea
phone and Internet cables in  Asia  looked at Cable & Wireless
Worldwide assets but didn’t plan to make a bid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  