-- Volcker Says More Market Liquidity Doesn’t Bring Public Benefit
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-02-13T23:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/volcker-says-more-market-liquidity-doesn-t-bring-public-benefit.html
Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  said those attacking his namesake rule for reducing
trading activity in  capital markets  ignore that higher volumes
may actually lead to bigger risk-taking.  “There should not be a presumption that evermore market
liquidity brings a public benefit,” Volcker, 84, wrote in a
letter submitted yesterday to regulators in defense of the rule
curtailing banks’ bets on asset prices with their own money.
“At some point, great liquidity, or the perception of it, may
itself encourage more speculative trading.”  Congress included the so-called Volcker rule in the Dodd-
Frank Act financial-reform package it passed in 2010, leaving
the specifics of implementation to regulators. Yesterday was the
deadline for comments on guidelines proposed by the Fed and
other bank supervisors on how the rule would be put in place.  Banks have argued that the rule would constrain their
efforts to broker client trades while attempting to curtail
their proprietary trading. That would reduce liquidity, make
transactions more expensive for investors and raise borrowing
costs for firms, according to banks and some fund managers.  Republican Congressmen have also criticized the rule, which
was passed when Democrats had majority in both chambers.
Republican Representative  Spencer Bachus  of  Alabama , who chairs
the House Financial Services Committee, said last month that the
rule was misguided because proprietary trading didn’t cause the
2008 financial crisis. Volcker in his letter argued that it did.  ‘Spectacular Trading Losses’  “The recent years of financial crisis have seen
spectacular trading losses in large commercial and investment
banks here and abroad,” Volcker said. “Consequently, the
stability of important banks was jeopardized, contributing to a
financial crisis of historic dimension.”  Between mid-2006 and 2010, the six largest U.S. banks had
13 quarters of trading  profits  while recording losses in five,
according to calculations by  Mark Williams , a professor at
 Boston University . During the positive quarters, the lenders
made a total of $15.6 billion in trading profits while losing
$15.8 billion in less than half the time in the losing periods,
Williams found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or @yalman_bn on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer in New York at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  