-- Volcker Rule Will Raise Risk, Costs for U.S. Financial System, Critics Say
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-02-13T18:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/volcker-rule-will-raise-risk-costs-for-u-s-financial-system-critics-say.html
Representatives for the world’s
largest banks said a U.S. proposal to ban proprietary trading
would increase risk, raise costs for investors and be vulnerable
to legal challenge.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , alongside foreign banks and governments, were set
to file letters today in opposition to the Volcker rule, a
proposal made under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act that seeks to limit
risky trading at banks that receive federal assistance.  “The proposal will severely limit banking entities’
ability to hedge their own risk, thereby increasing rather than
decreasing the risk to banking entities and the financial
system,” the Clearing House Association,  American Bankers
Association , Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, and Financial Services Roundtable said in joint
173-page  letter .  The rule named for former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , who
championed it as an adviser to President  Barack Obama , would
seek to ban banks from proprietary trading while allowing them
to continue short-term trades for hedging or market-making. It
also would limit banks’ investments in private-equity and hedge
funds.  The proposal is one of the most contentious provisions of
Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in 2010 that
requires the ban on proprietary trading to be in place by July
21. A 298-page proposal released by U.S. regulators in October
included more than 1,300 questions for affected banks to
consider during the comment period, which closes today.  Volcker Speaks  Volcker himself weighed in to defend his namesake rule,
arguing the proposal is “not at all likely” to have an effect
on liquidity and that bankers’ arguments that U.S.
competitiveness would suffer are “superficial at best.”  “Losses within large trading positions were in fact a
contributing factor for some of our most systemically important
institutions, and proprietary trading is not an essential
commercial bank service that justifies taxpayer support,”
Volcker wrote.  Series of Exemptions  The proposal included a series of exemptions for
permissible market-making trading, underwriting and hedging
transactions. Lawmakers exempted market-making from the rule,
along with certain forms of hedging and underwriting, because of
concerns that a broad ban on proprietary trading could bring
some U.S. and world markets to a halt.  SIFMA, which represents large financial institutions
including Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, and Blackrock, argued
in its letter that rule, as proposed, wouldn’t pass judicial
scrutiny in part because regulators have “fallen far short” of
conducting a cost-benefit analysis.  In their letter, the bank lobbying associations said the
cost-benefit analysis in the Volcker rule didn’t meet the
standards set in a court case overturning a Securities and
Exchange Commission rule last year. The letter referenced the
 Business Roundtable ’s victory against the SEC, which overturned
the so-called proxy access rule designed to let shareholders put
their own candidates on corporate ballots. The  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in  Washington  agreed with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
and Business Roundtable.  Higher Fees  Banks that make markets may pass on higher fees to their
investors if the rule restricts their revenue from holding
large, or block, positions as inventory, according to Janet McGinness, senior vice president at NYSE Euronext.  “In facilitating the ability of the customer to quickly
sell such a large block of stock, the market maker may hold in
inventory that portion of the purchase shares that it cannot
resell without driving down the price of the stock,” McGinness
said in a letter to regulators. The proposal may lead traders to
set higher fees because of restrictions on how long inventory
can be held, she said.  Douglas Sheline, senior vice president and assistant
treasurer of  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) , said the proposed rule would impose
a harsh burden on regional banks. Banks like his would be
required to “develop and implement, in extremely short order,
compliance, internal controls, record keeping and reporting
regimes simply to ‘prove a negative’ -- that we are not engaged
in impermissible proprietary trading,” Sheline said in a
letter. The Volcker threshold for banks with average trading
assets could be raised from the current $1 billion to $5 billion
or higher and still capture “at least 98% of total average
trading assets and over 97% of total trading liabilities.”  Small Business  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce argued that the proposed rule
would restrict credit for small businesses or result in higher
costs for basic financing. “Small businesses will have to forgo
business opportunities altogether due to the increased  capital
costs  and diminished access” to credit, David Hirschmann,
president and CEO of the Chamber of Commerce, wrote in a letter.  Foreign banks and governments also are fighting the rule
for its extraterritorial reach. While non-U.S.  government bonds 
would fall under the rule as proposed,  U.S. government debt 
would be exempt.  Officials from  Canada ,  Japan , the  United Kingdom , and the
European Banking Federation have sent letters to the U.S.
Treasury Department and other regulators saying the measure
would harm global liquidity and international cooperation. G-20
leaders have not endorsed the rule.  Overseas Reach  Regulators should “limit the scope of the rule only to the
territory of the  United States ,” European Union Financial-
Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said in a letter to
regulators. “Moreover, the current exemption for non-U.S. banks
as well as for activities outside of the U.S. would appear very
restrictive.”  Six Canadian bankers and the Canadian government said the
Volcker rule’s inclusion of Canadian securities in the
proprietary trading ban would violate the  North American Free
Trade Agreement  that guarantees that banks be allowed to trade
equally in both U.S. and Canadian debt obligations.  “Failure to exclude Canadian public funds will undermine
years of cooperation between U.S. and Canadian regulators as
demonstrated by NAFTA provisions and by efforts to carefully
adapt the U.S. securities laws to the realities of the growing
economic and business integration of Canada and the United
States,” wrote the  Bank of Montreal , the  Bank of Nova Scotia ,
Canadian Imperial Bank of Canada, Royal Bank of Canada and the
 Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  