-- Wall Street Banks May Thaw Japan Hiring Freeze on M&A Boom, Recruiter Says
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-02-14T00:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/wall-street-banks-may-thaw-japan-hiring-freeze-on-m-a-boom-recruiter-says.html
Foreign banks in  Japan  may resume
hiring this year to advise local clients taking advantage of the
stronger yen to acquire companies abroad, while cutting jobs for
other  investment banking  services, a recruitment firm said.  “Wall Street firms are largely lacking workers for M&A” in
Japan after paring staff since the 2008 global financial crisis,
said Katsunobu Komizo, chief executive officer at Executive
Search Partners Co., the country’s biggest recruitment company
focusing on investment banks. “They may lift their hiring freeze
sometime soon and recruit people who are good at execution.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are among overseas financial firms that cut
about 2,000 jobs in Japan since June 2010 as the record
earthquake and Europe’s debt crisis roiled markets and dissuaded
companies from raising funds. The yen’s advance and a shrinking
domestic economy prompted Japanese enterprises to make the most
overseas takeovers in more than a decade in 2011.  “Japan’s cross-border M&A activities are outstanding
compared with the global trend, and overseas firms can offer
their global reach and information,” Komizo, who worked at
lenders including Sumitomo Bank Ltd. before joining the
recruitment industry in 1989, said in an interview.  Japanese companies made 800 cross-border takeovers last
year valued at $89 billion, the most overseas acquisitions since
at least 2000, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Goldman Sachs,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Deutsche Bank and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  were
among the top five advisers on the deals.  More Global Deals  “We always look for good bankers, especially so as we see
more cross-border M&A deals coming through the door,” said
Yuichi Jimbo, head of investment banking at Citigroup Global
Markets Japan Inc. “As to new graduates, we try to maintain the
same level of hires regardless of the cycle.”  Hiroko Matsumoto, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in Tokyo,
declined to comment on its hiring policies. Deutsche Bank’s
Tokyo-based spokesman Aston Bridgman and Bank of America’s
spokesman Takayuki Inoue also declined to comment.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) , the No. 1 adviser on takeovers
involving Japanese companies in 2011, including domestic deals,
expects more companies to seek acquisitions offshore.  “We are seeing continued growth in outbound M&A as small
and medium-sized businesses across Japan join large corporations
in seeking growth abroad,” Kentaro Okuda, Nomura’s joint head
of global mergers, said in an interview. “Nomura is looking to
build a stronger M&A team to tap into this demand.”  After the Earthquake  Outside of mergers advisory, banks in Japan will continue
to trim payrolls amid global cost cutting, said Komizo. As well
as  Europe ’s woes and tighter global regulations, a failure by
Japan to overhaul its economy following the March 11 quake and
tsunami is a reason for the reduction, he said.  Some 200 overseas banks,  hedge funds  and buyout firms
reduced their Japan staff to 22,000 as of Dec. 31 from 24,000 in
June 2010, according to Executive Search.  Business managing share and bond sales in Japan dwindled
last year. Equity and equity-linked transactions in the country
fell to 1.8 trillion yen ($23 billion) in 2011 from 5.5 trillion
yen in 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Japanese companies
and institutions sold 13.4 trillion yen of bonds last year, down
from 14.7 trillion yen a year earlier.  “Just after the earthquake, people in Japan began saying
they should take advantage of the event to turn around the
economy,” Komizo said. “It ended up being an empty slogan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  