-- Westminster Judge Vets Ears, Tails, Testicles to Pick Best Dog: Interview
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-02-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/westminster-judge-vets-ears-tails-testicles-to-pick-best-dog.html
The fate of 2,000 pampered purebreds
gathered in New York this week ultimately rests in the hands,
eyes and sensibility of  Cindy Vogels .  Shortly before 11 p.m. tomorrow at  Madison Square Garden (MSG) ,
Vogels is scheduled to select the best in show from seven
finalists at the  Westminster Kennel Club  pageant. The 136th
annual spectacle is billed as the most prestigious canine
competition in the U.S., as well as the second-longest
continuously held sporting event after the  Kentucky Derby .  “I don’t think of it as power,” said handler  David
Fitzpatrick , as he arrived from  Pennsylvania  on Thursday with
Palacegarden Malachy, a Pekingese ranked No. 2 in American
Kennel Club competition last year. “That’s a big
responsibility.”  From her home last week in a Denver, Colorado, suburb,
 Greenwood Village , the 60-year-old Vogels described her task as
difficult.  “There is no right answer,” she said of her choice. “It
will be my answer.”  Greyhounds and Terriers  The daughter of a  Long Island , New York, orthodontist, she
grew up with a beloved poodle. Next for the family was a soft-
coated wheaten terrier, a native Irish farm dog. As the breed
was rare, she was encouraged to show it competitively.  “The bug bit,” she said.  Vogels went on to breed terriers, as well as Brittanys,
greyhounds and Pekingese. (Her mother, Jackie Gottlieb, is also
a breeder. To avoid the perception of a conflict of interest,
Vogels curtailed dog breeding when she began judging in the
1990s, she said.)  Her pack of six dogs today -- she and her husband, David,
show and raise horses on their 15-acre farm -- consists of three
greyhounds, two Pekingese and a Japanese Chin.  Nationwide,
she’s judged terriers, toy dogs and sporting breeds, which
include retrievers and spaniels.  “You can be harder on the breeds you know the most
about,” she said.  For the three rounds at Westminster, the job of judges is
to assess how a dog stacks up to a written description of the
breed’s ideal specimen in appearance, movement, temperament and
physical traits, such as height and weight.  “So many of the dogs, I will have judged or seen before,”
said Vogels. “We all have our likes and dislikes. The job is to
be kind and objective and judge with integrity.”  Pooch Perfection  How does one decide among seven perfect and distinct
specimens? “They’re not all going to be perfect,” she said.
“They’re not all going to perform as well on the night.”  As finalists are culled from 2,000 entrants, Vogels will be
“sequestered” for most of the two-day show. Tonight, she plans
to watch a DVD with her 18-month-old granddaughter to avoid the
coverage on  cable television .  Once she arrives at the Garden tomorrow evening at about 10
p.m. she’ll have a few minutes to study the standards of the
final seven, if necessary.  “Ours is an open-book test,” she said.  What’s it like giving those intimate exams in the ring?  “Are you asking if I have my 10 favorite sets of
testicles?” Vogels asked with a laugh. “We go over every inch
of the dog. You’re looking for the essence of the breed.”  Surprise Winners  It isn’t easy handicapping Westminster. Last year’s winner,
a Scottish deerhound named Hickory, wasn’t in the top-10-ranked
dogs prior to the show. Two years earlier, a Sussex Spaniel
named Stump ambled out of retirement to win.  In 2011, the two most winning dogs were a black cocker
spaniel nicknamed Beckham and the Pekingese Malachy. Both made
it to the final seven at Westminster last year. The top 10 also
included two standard poodles, one co-owned by Martin Sosnoff, a
 New York  money manager.  There are about 17 standard poodles registered. Toy
poodles, with a dozen this year, have had the most dramatic
increase, growing 15 percent annually since 2008, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Six new breeds are making an
appearance, including Xoloitzcuintlis, or Mexican hairless dogs,
and Finnish Lapphunds.  Describing her cherished sport as “graying,” Vogels said
she’s eager to promote it, as well as the dog-related  charities 
with which she’s involved. Once an “old-boys sporting club,”
Westminster has grown more inclusive, she said.  Outsiders still associate this world with the Christopher Guest-directed 2000 comedy “Best in Show.” Vogels said she
didn’t initially find its caricatures funny.  “It strikes a little close to home,” she said. “By the
time I had seen it a third time, I could laugh.”  (With assistance from Jennifer Prince. Philip Boroff is a
reporter for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg
News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 