-- Whitney Houston Death Probe Isn’t a Homicide Investigation, Police Say
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-02-13T20:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/whitney-houston-death-probe-isn-t-a-homicide-investigation-police-say.html
A probe into the death of pop-soul
diva Whitney Houston isn’t a homicide investigation, police in
 Beverly Hills ,  California , said.  “It’s a normal investigation,” Lieutenant Mark Rosen, a
police spokesman, said today at a televised news conference
while declining to speculate on the cause of her death. “We
follow the evidence where that evidence leads us.”  The cause of death won’t be known until the  Los Angeles 
County Coroner completes its report, which may take two or three
weeks, Rosen said. Police have completed an investigation at the
Beverly Hills Hilton hotel, where Houston died in her fourth-
floor room on Feb. 12, Rosen said.  Rosen declined to comment on whether  prescription drugs 
were found in Houston’s room. Police won’t comment on the
condition of her body or room and the investigation will be
sealed, he said. Police haven’t ruled out anything and won’t
conclude the investigation until they receive the coroner’s
report, Rosen said.  Houston, 48, was the only artist to have seven consecutive
No. 1 singles on Billboard magazine’s pop chart. The streak
began with “Saving All My Love for You,” from her  debut album 
in 1985. She also reached the top of Billboard’s rhythm-and-
blues, adult-contemporary and dance charts.  The singer died on the eve of the music industry’s Grammy
Awards ceremony in Los Angeles. She was found unconscious and
unresponsive in her hotel-room bathtub by one or more members of
her staff, who pulled her out, Rosen said.  No. 1 Streak  Houston’s self-titled first album was the biggest-selling
debut for a female artist at the time. After the record yielded
a top-five single, “You Give Good Love,” the No. 1 streak
began. “Saving All My Love for You” was followed by “How Will
I Know” and “The Greatest Love of All” at the top of the pop
charts.  Starring roles in three movies, “The Bodyguard,”
“Waiting to Exhale” and “The Preacher’s Wife,” broadened her
resume in the 1990s. Her version of “I Will Always Love You,”
from the “Bodyguard” soundtrack, was the biggest-selling
single ever.  Houston’s personal and artistic descent stemmed from her
dependence on marijuana and cocaine, and turmoil in her 15-year
marriage to singer Bobby Brown. Remarks that she blurted out on
television became part of popular culture.  “Crack is whack,” she told ABC News’s  Diane Sawyer  in
2002 when asked about  crack cocaine , which she denied using.
“Hell to the no!” she told her then-husband on “Being Bobby
Brown,” a reality show that the Bravo cable network broadcast
in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 