-- Whitman Capital, BNY Mellon, Apple, Bayer, EPA in Court News
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-02-13T11:38:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/whitman-capital-bny-mellon-apple-bayer-epa-in-court-news.html
Whitman Capital LLC’s president was
charged with taking part in two separate insider-trading
conspiracies, using illegal tips on Google Inc.,  Polycom Inc. (PLCM) 
and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to make more than $900,000 for
the hedge fund.  Doug Whitman traded on information he got from two sources,
including one who already admitted to sharing tips with Galleon
Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, according to an indictment
filed Feb. 10 in Manhattan federal court. The U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission also sued Whitman, 54, and his Menlo
Park, California-based hedge-fund firm for insider trading.  “Whitman recognized the value of the information he got,
and paid cash for it in one case, and bartered his own inside
information in the other,” Janice Fedarcyk, assistant director
in charge of the FBI’s  New York  office, said in a statement.  Some of the tips were supplied by  Roomy Khan , a former
executive at Intel Corp. and Whitman’s neighbor, according to
the SEC. Khan tipped Whitman about earnings at Polycom, a maker
of video-conferencing equipment, and search-engine operator
Google before they were made public, the SEC said.  “Doug Whitman is innocent of the insider-trading charges
that have been brought against him,” his attorney, David L.
Anderson, said in an e-mailed statement. “Mr. Whitman traded on
the basis of lawful research and analysis, not unlawfully
obtained inside information.”  Anderson said his client had cooperated with the U.S.
probe. He said the charges were based on allegations by Motey
and Khan, who hope to get reduced sentences by accusing his
client.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125; the
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Whitman, 12-
cv-01055, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Mets Used Madoff Money for Deferred Compensation, Picard Says  The liquidator of   Bernard Madoff ’s firm said the New York
Mets owners were so “hooked” on money from the con man that
they used it in place of disability insurance for the baseball
team and to fund players’ deferred-compensation plans.  Irving Picard , the Madoff trustee, told a federal judge he
is entitled to pursue a $386 million lawsuit against the Mets
owners because they chose to be “willfully blind” to the fraud
to maintain an income stream that was essential to their
business. The Mets’ Madoff accounts funded working capital, as
well as insurance and compensation, he said.  “When faced with cash crunches from week to week, the Mets
routinely and confidently relied on future Madoff returns to
bridge the gap,” and any excess cash went back into Madoff’s
firm, Picard said in a Feb. 9 filing in U.S. District Court in
Manhattan. “The Mets relied on Madoff’s returns as a
predictable source of income for a business -- professional
baseball -- with an otherwise unpredictable revenue stream.”  The Mets owners, after losing money in the Ponzi scheme and
an income stream from Madoff, have said they are trying to sell
stakes in the Major League Baseball team. They have cut the
team’s payroll and hired a restructuring firm to advise them on
their finances, which remain under threat from Picard’s claims.  Sterling Equities Inc.’s partners declined to comment in an
e-mailed statement, saying they would respond to Picard’s filing
this week.  Sterling partners Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz have said they
trusted their broker and never suspected him of any fraud, let
alone a Ponzi scheme. Picard’s suit should be thrown out because
he cannot prove willful blindness, only make allegations, they
have said.  The Mets owners said they should be allowed to keep $83
million in fictitious profits taken from Madoff’s Ponzi scheme
as well as their principal, because the money was owed by the
registered brokerage to its clients. Picard had asked U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff to rule now on his right to take the
profits, in advance of a trial set for March 19.  Madoff, 73, pleaded guilty in 2009 to orchestrating what
prosecutors called the biggest Ponzi scheme in history. He is
serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in North
Carolina.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  BNY Mellon Denied Second Bid to Dismiss Virginia Fraud Case  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the world’s largest custody
bank, failed a second time to win dismissal of the state of
Virginia’s lawsuit accusing it of defrauding pension funds in
foreign-currency trades.  A state judge in Fairfax, Virginia, on Feb. 10 again
rejected the bank’s argument that it can’t be sued under the
Virginia Fraud Against Taxpayers Act because alleged false or
fraudulent claims were never submitted to the state for payment.  Fairfax County Circuit Judge Terrence Ney, who ruled
against a similar request by the bank in November, said during a
hearing on Friday the case may turn on the contracts between the
pension funds and the bank.  The bank will have another opportunity to seek dismissal of
the case at a hearing scheduled for Feb. 22. That hearing, which
may last more than a day, will examine evidence produced by the
bank in an effort to show it didn’t violate the law.  At the Feb. 10 hearing, Virginia attempted, and failed, to
resurrect another argument as to why the bank was liable under
the anti-fraud statute.  Brandy Bergman, a spokeswoman for the bank, said in an
interview that the bank is pleased the court again rejected that
argument and will “closely scrutinize the remaining claim at a
hearing later this month.”  State Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli sued in August,
claiming the bank violated state law by charging “undisclosed
markups” on currency-exchange trades to six retirement funds.
Virginia is seeking about $931.6 million in damages.  “We are pleased that the judge has determined our
complaint can move forward,” Brian Gottstein, a spokesman for
Cuccinelli, said in an e-mail.  Attorneys general in New York and Florida have sued over
the same issue. Massachusetts filed an administrative action
against the bank.  All the cases center on the pricing of small foreign-
exchange transactions handled automatically by the custody banks
on behalf of the pension funds, a service known as standing  The case is Commonwealth of Virginia v.  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK) , 09-15377, Circuit Court for the County of Fairfax,
Virginia (Fairfax).  Wegelin Doesn’t Appear at Hearing, Called ‘Fugitive’ by U.S.  Wegelin & Co., the 270-year-old Swiss bank facing criminal
charges in a U.S. crackdown on firms suspected of aiding tax
evasion, failed to appear at a court hearing as prosecutors
called the bank a “fugitive.”  Prosecutors said after the hearing on Feb. 10 in Manhattan
federal court that three Wegelin client managers charged in the
case also failed to appear and were considered fugitives.  When no defendants or defense attorneys showed up in court,
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff asked prosecutors for a proposal
on how to proceed. Prosecutors said they will confer with the
Justice Department and advise Rakoff on their proposals.  “Unlike an individual, arresting a company is somewhat
difficult,” Rakoff said.  Wegelin said in a statement after the hearing that it
didn’t appear because “the legal prerequisites to initiating
criminal proceedings under U.S. law have not been met.”  According to the statement, the case can’t begin until the
defendant has been served with a summons. Because Wegelin hasn’t
been properly served, the bank said, it wasn’t required to
appear and proceedings may not begin.  Wegelin is the first overseas bank to be indicted by the
U.S. for aiding tax fraud, federal prosecutors in New York said
this month. The three Wegelin client managers at the Zurich
branch, Michael Berlinka, Urs Frei and Roger Keller, were also
indicted.  The managers serviced “undeclared accounts” for U.S.
taxpayers, meaning the income derived from them wasn’t reported
to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, according to the
superseding indictment filed this month.  The case is U.S. v. Wegelin, 12-00002, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Mark Cuban Faces SEC Deposition in Insider Trading Lawsuit  Mark Cuban, the billionaire owner of the Dallas Mavericks
basketball team, appeared at the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission on Friday to face questions related to the agency’s
insider-trading lawsuit against him.  Cuban, 53, has been fighting for more than three years
against SEC claims that he traded on confidential information
when he sold his stake in Mamma.com, a Canadian Internet search
company now known as Copernic Inc., just before it announced a
private placement of shares. He arrived at the SEC’s offices in
Fort Worth, Texas, at 8:45 a.m. with his attorney  Stephen Best 
following a Jan. 13 court order to appear for the deposition.  In a 2008 lawsuit, the SEC claimed Guy Faure, then chief
executive officer of Mamma.com, told Cuban in a 2004 phone call
about plans for a private share offering. Cuban sold shares
ahead of the deal, avoiding $750,000 in losses after the
offering diluted his holdings, the SEC said.  The agency claims that Cuban agreed with Faure at the
beginning of their call to keep the information confidential and
told the CEO after learning details of the plan, “Well, now I’m
screwed. I can’t sell.”  U.S. District Judge Sidney Fitzwater threw out the case in
July 2009, ruling that Cuban didn’t agree not to trade on the
information, only to keep it confidential.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans overturned
Fitzwater’s decision, finding the SEC’s allegations “provide
more than a plausible basis to find that the understanding
between the CEO and Cuban was that he was not to trade.”  Cuban has accused the SEC staff of engaging in “egregious
acts of misconduct” in their probe of his trades. The SEC’s
inspector general investigated Cuban’s allegations and issued a
report last year saying they were unfounded.  The case is  Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-2050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  Martha Stewart Living Fires Back Against Macy’s in Lawsuit  Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO) , sued last month by
Macy’s Inc. over its deal to sell merchandise in J.C. Penney Co.
stores, defended the agreement and filed counterclaims against
Macy’s.  The agreement with J.C. Penney is permitted under an
existing contract between Macy’s and Martha Stewart Living, the
company said in a filing Feb. 10 in New York State Supreme Court
in Manhattan.  “Macy’s simply has no exclusive right to MSLO’s creativity
or design concepts, now or in the future,” Martha Stewart
Living said.  Macy’s sued in January seeking to stop New York-based
Martha Stewart Living from executing the J.C. Penney agreement.
Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, claims its contract gives the
retailer an exclusive right to sell Martha Stewart-branded
products within certain categories.  In its filing Feb. 10, Martha Stewart Living accused Macy’s
of breach of contract, saying the retailer has stocked and
priced Martha Stewart products in a manner that favors Macy’s
own private-label brands.  “They have used Martha Stewart Collection products to draw
customers into Macy’s Home Store, where its own private-label
brands take center stage and, of course, generate higher profits
for Macy’s without the burden of paying royalties,” the company
said.  Jim Sluzewski , a Macy’s spokesman, declined to comment on
the claims.  The case is  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia
Inc., 650197/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Twitter Subpoena Challenged by N.Y. ‘Occupy’ Protester  Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s subpoena of
Twitter Inc. for information about the account of an Occupy Wall
Street protester and Brooklyn-based writer is improper, the
National Lawyers Guild said in a motion to block the request.  Martin Stolar, an attorney with the National Lawyers Guild,
filed the request to invalidate the subpoena on Feb. 6,
according to court papers posted on the guild’s website. Vance
is seeking information about the “@destructuremal” account of
Malcolm Harris, 22, who was arrested with about 700 protesters
on the Brooklyn Bridge on Oct. 1, according to the filing.  “It’s like swatting a gnat with a sledgehammer,” Stolar
said Feb. 10 in a phone interview. “This is one count of
disorderly conduct for being one of 700 people arrested,.”  There was no indication Harris had a conspiratorial role or
did anything out of the ordinary, Stolar said.  Joan Vollero, a spokeswoman for Vance, said prosecutors
previously subpoenaed Twitter and declined to comment further.  The National Lawyers Guild is providing free defense for
arrested Occupy Wall Street protesters including Harris. The
group has provided attorneys for almost 2,200 people since the
protests began Sept. 17, according to a statement.  Jenna Sampson, a Twitter spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
return a call and e-mail seeking comment on the filing.
According to Twitter’s privacy policy, it may preserve or
disclose information believed necessary to comply with a law or
legal request.  The case is People of the State of New York v. Harris,
11-80152, Supreme Court of the State of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Motorola Mobility Loses Patent Case Against Apple in Germany  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI) , which has won two rulings
against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in Germany, failed to win a third in a patent
case involving the use of mathematical sequences in mobile
telecommunications.  The Regional Court in Mannheim rejected the suit Feb. 10.
Motorola Mobility didn’t show that Apple is violating the
patent, Presiding Judge Andreas Voss said when delivering the
ruling.  The decision ends a winning streak by Motorola Mobility,
which has twice prevailed over Apple in the same court. More
cases between the two are pending in German courts, including a
bid by Motorola Mobility to enforce its first win from December,
which forced Apple to briefly remove some older iPhones and iPad
models from its online store in Germany last week.  “While we can’t comment on specific details, we will
continue to protect our intellectual property,”  Jennifer
Weyrauch-Erickson, a spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Apple spokesman Alan Hely declined to comment.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is buying Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola
Mobility to gain mobile patents and expand its hardware
business. Google’s Android operating system is used by
smartphones from  HTC Corp. (2498)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  that
compete with Apple’s iPhone.  The case is LG Mannheim, 7 O 230/11.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Bayer Sues Watson Over Patent for Beyaz Birth Control Pill  A unit of  Bayer AG (BAYN) , Germany’s largest drugmaker, sued
 Watson (WPI)  Pharmaceuticals Inc., accusing the generic-drug maker of
violating a patent for Beyaz birth control pills.  Watson, based in Parsippany,  New Jersey , is trying to
develop a copy of Beyaz in violation of the patent, Bayer Pharma
AG and partner Merck & Cie. claimed Feb. 10 in court papers
filed in U.S. District Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  Bayer and Merck “are entitled to an award of damages and
treble damages for any commercial sale or use” of Watson’s
generic version of Beyaz, the companies said.  Bayer, of Leverkusen, Germany, asked a judge to ban the
sale of any Watson birth control product based on the patent.  Watson plans to challenge the validity of the patent,
Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for Watson, said in a telephone
interview Friday.  The lawsuit “initiates the formal process of challenging
the patent on the product,” Mayr said.  The case is Merck Cie. v. Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc., 12-
cv-00161, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To see the patent, click: 6,153,401.  EPA Sued by 11 States to Enforce Standards Limiting Soot  New York, California and nine other states sued to enforce
clean air standards after the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency failed to meet a deadline to limit soot pollution.  The lawsuit, filed Feb. 10 in federal court in New York,
asks a judge to order the EPA to propose and complete the
standards, Attorney General Peter P. Kilmartin of Rhode Island,
one of the plaintiffs, said in a statement. The complaint
couldn’t be immediately confirmed in court electronic records.  “The science is clear that the current federal standards
for soot emissions are woefully inadequate, causing premature
deaths and serious chronic respiratory harm,” Kilmartin said.  According to the American Lung Association, one in 17
Americans lives in areas with unhealthy year-round levels of
soot pollution, Kilmartin said. Most soot comes from diesel
vehicles and power plants, he said.  Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Mexico,
Oregon, Vermont and Washington also sued the EPA, according to
the statement.  EPA spokeswoman Enesta Jones had no immediate comment on
the lawsuit.  Koch Industries Sued by Madoff Trustee for $21.5 Million  Koch Industries Inc., the company run by billionaire
brothers Charles and David Koch, was sued for $21.5 million by
the trustee liquidating Bernard Madoff’s firm.  The trustee, Irving Picard, sued to recover money received
from a feeder fund that invested with Madoff, according to the
complaint filed Feb. 9 in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.
Madoff is serving 150 years in federal prison for running the
biggest Ponzi scheme in U.S. history.  One of the largest closely held companies in the world,
Koch Industries has businesses in chemicals, refining, consumer
products and commodities trading.  Charles Koch  is chairman and
chief executive officer of the company, and David Koch is an
executive vice president.  Melissa Cohlmia, a spokeswoman for the Wichita, Kansas-
based company, said Picard’s complaint was “without merit.”  “The Koch entity involved made an investment in an
entirely separate fund,” she said in an e-mailed statement.
“That Koch entity no longer exists and its investment was
redeemed in 2005, long before anyone knew of Madoff’s fraud.”  The case is Picard v. Koch Industries Inc., 12-01047, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Tearful Stanford Investor Tells Jury of Losing Life Savings  A retired U.S. Air Force medic told jurors at R. Allen
Stanford’s criminal trial that she lost four-fifths of her
savings and her dream of a comfortable retirement on now-
worthless certificates of deposit from Stanford’s bank.  “Being in the military, I was just a middle-class, hard-
working person who took care of my family and made my ends
meet,” a tearful Dianne Hammer testified Feb. 10 in Stanford’s
fraud trial in federal court in Houston. “You really don’t get
rich serving in the military.”  Hammer’s broker at Stanford Group Co. and marketing
brochures from Stanford International Bank didn’t say that
investors were supposed to have a net worth of $1 million or
annual incomes of $250,000 to buy CDs from the Antiguan bank,
she said. Prosecutors claim Stanford ran the bank as a Ponzi
scheme that defrauded investors of more than $7 billion.  Testifying for prosecutors, Hammer, 54, said she increased
her Stanford CD holdings from $50,000 to $260,000 in August
2008, after she discussed deteriorating financial market
conditions with her Stanford broker.  “He said since it was an overseas bank, it was safer than
banks in the U.S. were at the time,” she said. The adviser also
recommended she combine investments with her elderly parents so
the family could qualify for a higher  interest rate  on their
joint holdings at SIB, she said.  Stanford, 61, has denied wrongdoing. His lawyers have told
jurors that all of Stanford’s customers were wealthy, accredited
investors, with sophisticated investment knowledge.  Hammer told jurors that she now lives on a modest military
pension. When U.S. securities regulators seized Stanford’s
operations on suspicion of fraud in February 2009, Hammer said
her SIB statement listed her CD account balance as $280,679.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is SEC v. Stanford International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  Primary Global’s James Fleishman Denied Bail Pending Appeal  Former Primary Global Research LLC executive James
Fleishman, convicted of taking part in an insider-trading
scheme, will have to report to prison this month to start
serving a 2 1/2-year sentence after losing a bid for bail
pending appeal.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York denied Feb. 10
Fleishman’s request to remain free while it considers the
challenge to his conviction on two conspiracy charges.  Fleishman is accused of participating in a scheme to obtain
and pass along confidential information from technology company
employees who moonlighted as consultants for Mountain View,
California-based Primary Global, a so-called expert-networking
firm. The tips were given to fund managers who paid Primary
Global for consultation calls, prosecutors said.  In December, U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan
denied Fleishman’s request to dismiss his conviction or grant
him a new trial.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-32, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Bard Wins Ruling Upholding $371 Million Award Against Gore  C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR) , a maker of catheters, won a U.S. court
ruling that upholds a $371 million patent-infringement judgment
against  W.L. Gore & Associates Inc.   There was “substantial evidence” to support a verdict
that Gore infringed a patent for vascular grafts, the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington said Friday in
a  ruling . Including interest, royalties and fees, Gore owed $783
million as of June, Bard said in a regulatory filing last year.  The case began in 2003 and involves a dispute dating back
to 1974 over a tube that helps retain the shape of non-coronary
blood vessels using a substance known as ePTFE that is similar
to DuPont Co.’s Teflon, according to the patent. Closely held
Gore, a Newark, Delaware-based maker of surgical products and
fibers, said it uses the substance for its Gore-Tex fabrics.  Resolution of the case may bring in about $1 billion for
Bard, adding $1 a share to annual earnings, Raj Denhoy, an
analyst with Jefferies & Co. in New York, said in a note to
clients. While the litigation isn’t over, Bard “is very close
to the finish line,” Denhoy said.  Bard rose 3.6 percent to $95.67 at the close of New York
trading, the biggest percentage gain since Nov. 30. The stock
has climbed 12 percent this year.  Scott Lowry, a spokesman for Murray Hill, New Jersey-based
Bard, said the company is pleased with the ruling.  Michael Ratchford, a spokesman for Gore, said in an e-
mailed statement that “undoubtedly, we are disappointed with
the court’s decision. But the company is as strong as it’s ever
been, and this does not change our plans to continue to bring to
market innovative and reliable products that improve health and
save lives.”  The case is Bard Peripheral Vascular Inc. v. W.L. Gore &
Associates Inc., 2010-1510, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is Bard
Peripheral Vascular v. W.L. Gore & Associates, 03cv597, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Court Filings  Credit Suisse Trader Case Was Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s suit against
Kareem Serageldin,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s former global head
of structured credit trading, was the most-read docket on the
Bloomberg Law system last week.  Serageldin was charged in a scheme to falsify prices tied
to collateralized debt obligations to meet targets and boost
year-end bonuses for his $5.35 billion trading book.  Serageldin, 38, who lives in the U.K. and led the
securities department of Credit Suisse’s investment banking
division, was named in an indictment on Feb. 1 in New York. Two
of his former subordinates, David Higgs, 42, and Salmaan
Siddiqui, 36, pleaded guilty in federal court in New York on
Feb. 1 and said they’re cooperating with the U.S. in the probe.  The cases are U.S. v. Higgs, 12-cr-00088, and U.S. v.
Siddiqui, 12-cr-00089, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The SEC case is U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission v. Serageldin, 12-cv-00796, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 