-- Euro Strengthens After Italian, Spanish Borrowing Costs Drop; Yen Weakens
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-02-14T12:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/yen-strengthens-as-europe-rating-cuts-boost-demand-for-safety-euro-drops.html
The euro advanced as Italian and
Spanish borrowing costs dropped at debt sales even after Moody’s
Investors Service lowered the two countries’ credit ratings.  The common currency strengthened against 12 of its 16 major
counterparts as a German report showed investor confidence
increased more than economists forecast. The yen fell to a
three-week low versus the dollar after the  Bank of Japan  said it
would increase the size of its asset-purchase fund. Moody’s
Investors Service yesterday cut the ratings of six European
nations, citing the region’s debt crisis.  “The Moody’s decision could not be a surprise, and the
euro has held up in a worse situation,” said Peter Rosenstreich, chief currency analyst at Swissquote Bank SA in
Geneva. “The euro may be under pressure in the near term, but
in a broader context I think the overall economic environment
has improved and the appetite for risk will continue.”  The euro gained 0.8 percent to 103.07 yen at 7:26 a.m. in
 New York  after rising to 103.29 yen on Feb. 9, the most since
Dec. 12. The single currency rose 0.1 percent to $1.3196. The
yen declined 0.7 percent to 78.11 per dollar after dropping to
78.19, the lowest since Jan. 25.  Italy sold 6 billion euros of debt, meeting its target as
its three-year borrowing costs fell to 3.41 percent, the lowest
since March.  Spain  sold 12-month bills at an average rate of
1.899 percent, the least since October 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Belgium,  Greece  and the Netherlands also
sold debt today.  German Confidence  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of German investor confidence climbed to a 10-
month high of 5.4 from minus 21.6 in January. Economists
forecast a gain to minus 11.8, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Moody’s downgraded Italy, Spain and  Portugal , and said it
may strip France and  Austria  of their top Aaa ratings.  UBS AG raised its one-month euro forecast to $1.30 from
$1.20, the bank said in an e-mailed note yesterday. “We have
revised our currency forecasts, after the removal of some of the
tail risks in the  euro zone , the better macro environment, and
the ECB’s ongoing liquidity measures,” UBS said.  The yen fell against all but one of its major counterparts
after the central bank increased its asset-purchase fund by 10
trillion yen to 30 trillion yen, expanding economic stimulus
measures for the first time since October. The BOJ also said it
will target 1 percent inflation “for the time being.”  Greece Concern  The euro pared gains versus the dollar amid concern the
region’s debt crisis will worsen.  Greece’s gross domestic product dropped 7 percent from a
year earlier in the fourth quarter after contracting a revised 5
percent on an annual basis in the third quarter, the Hellenic
Statistical Authority said in an e-mailed statement today.  The implementation of Greece’s austerity measures “is not
going to happen in the form desirable by most of those in
 Europe ,” said Alex Sinton, a senior dealer at ANZ National Bank
Ltd. in Auckland. “The euro is looking tired.”  The euro has declined 3.9 percent in the past six months,
the second-worst performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar gained 4.2 percent, and the yen rose 0.5 percent.  The pound fell for the first time in three days against the
euro after Moody’s said Britain risks losing its top  credit
rating  should the economy deteriorate.  A  house-price index  by the  Royal Institution  of Chartered
Surveyors was unchanged at minus 16 in January from the previous
month, indicating more surveyors saw price declines than gains,
the London-based group said in a statement today.  Moody’s “has given sterling a punch in the ribs,” said Lee McDarby, head of dealing on the corporate and institutional
treasury desk at Investec Bank Plc in  London . “Compounding that,
firmer ZEW confidence figures have kept the downward pressure on
the pound against the euro.”  The pound dropped 0.2 percent to $1.5736, and declined 0.3
percent to 83.85 pence per euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  