-- Zambia Wins First Africa Cup of Nations Title to Honor Memory of 1993 Team
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-02-13T02:17:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-13/zambia-wins-first-africa-cup-of-nations-with-8-7-shootout-victory.html
Zambia beat tournament favorite
 Ivory Coast  8-7 in a penalty shootout to win soccer’s Africa Cup
of Nations for the first time.  The teams failed to score through 120 minutes of play in
last night’s final in Libreville, Gabon. After 14 penalties were
converted, Kolo Toure and Gervinho missed for Ivory Coast and
Zambia’s Rainford Kalaba also fired over. Stoppila Sunzu’s shot
then found the top corner to secure the title.  Zambia, the runner-up in 1974 and 1994, becomes the first
southern African country to win the biennial continental
championship since  South Africa  in 1996. The victory came 19
years after 18 members of the Zambian team died in a plane crash
close to where the final was played in the Gabonese capital.
Current team members said during their run to the championship
that they were motivated by the memory of the 1993 squad.  “We know what we wanted to honor this evening,” Zambia
coach Herve Renard said in comments on the tournament’s website.
“It was a sign of destiny, written in the sky, there was a
force with us.”  Ivory Coast, whose captain  Didier Drogba  missed a penalty
kick in regulation play, failed to claim the title after going
through the entire tournament without allowing a goal. The
Elephants, who won the 1992 edition, also lost the 2006 final in
a penalty shootout to  Egypt .  “It’s difficult to end this way after playing very well at
the tournament; scoring nine goals and not conceding,” Ivory
Coast coach Francois Zahoui said in comments on the tournament’s
website. “We came here with a lot of ambition.”  Drogba’s Miss  Drogba glared at the penalty spot after side-footing his
70th-minute kick over the crossbar. Ivory Coast substitute Max
Gradel shot inches wide of the post with three minutes
remaining.  Zambia went closest to scoring in extra time when Elephants
goalkeeper Boubacar Barry deflected Chris Katongo’s shot against
the post after the Zambian captain had been set up by his
younger brother Felix.  In the shootout, Zambia goalie Kennedy Mweene scored with
the 10th penalty kick to take it to sudden death and five kicks
later dived to his left to stop Toure’s shot. Kalaba then fired
over the crossbar and Arsenal striker Gervinho also sent his
effort high to give Sunzu the chance to win it.  “It is wonderful to be African champions and words cannot
describe how happy we are,” Mweene said. “I hear that in
Lusaka the city and the country has gone wild and I don’t even
know if our plane will be able land when we return due to the
number of people at the airport.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  