-- ‘Hunger Games’ Brings Lions Gate $155 Million Sales Record
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-03-26T13:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/-hunger-games-sets-lions-gate-record-on-sales-of-155-million.html
“The Hunger Games,” the action
thriller from  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF) , collected $155
million in weekend sales in the U.S. and  Canada , a record
opening for the company and for the month of March.  The film, about teenagers battling to the death on live
television, opened in 4,137 theaters,  Hollywood.com Box-Office 
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The sales total marked
the third-biggest weekend ever, behind 2011’s “ Harry Potter  and
the Deathly Hallows: Part 2” and 2008’s “The  Dark Knight .”  The movie crushed even the most optimistic expectations.
Entering the weekend, analysts estimated “The Hunger Games”
would earn $125 million to $135 million, having raised earlier
forecasts as it gained buzz. Based on the first day’s receipts,
 Paul Dergarabedian , president of Hollywood.com’s box-office
division, on March 24 projected $140 million for the weekend.  “This is a great opening weekend for the film,” said  Paul Sweeney , an analyst for Bloomberg Industries, in an e-mail. “It
continues the trend of very strong box-office results so far
this year.”  A marketing blitz associated with the movie included a
collector’s edition of People magazine, an eight-city mall tour
this month by the stars, and ticket giveaways on websites from
Access Hollywood to Yahoo.com. At least 6,000 weekend shows sold
out in advance, according to ticket sellers Fandango and
MovieTickets.com. More than 450 showings of “Hunger Games” are
already sold out for this week, MovieTickets.com said.  Lions Gate’s shares rose 3.7 percent to $15.06 at 9:30 a.m.
in  New York . The stock had advanced 75 percent this year before
today.  Suzanne Collins’s Novel  The picture is based on Suzanne Collins’s 2008 novel of the
same name set in a post-apocalyptic  North America . There are
more than  11 million  copies of the book in print, according to
its publisher,  Scholastic Corp. (SCHL)   The film features Oscar nominee  Jennifer Lawrence  as
Katniss Everdeen, a girl from an impoverished region who
volunteers to take her younger sister’s place in the
competition. “The Hunger Games” cost about $80 million to
make, according to Lions Gate Chief Executive Officer  Jon Feltheimer .  Prior to the weekend opening, the independent film and TV
studio’s top-performing domestic release was “Fahrenheit 9/11”
from  Michael Moore , which collected $119.1 million in the U.S.
and Canada during its entire run in theaters.  Disney’s ‘John Carter’  Among the weekend’s returning films, “21 Jump Street,” a
spoof of the 1980s TV series that led the U.S. and Canadian box
office last weekend, fell to second with $21.3 million in ticket
sales for Sony Corp.’s  Columbia Pictures , Hollywood.com said.  “Dr. Seuss’ The Lorax,” the No. 1 film for the two
weekends before that, fell to third place with $13.1 million in
receipts for  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures .  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s big-budget film “ John Carter ” collected
$5 million in its third weekend. Disney announced last week that
the film would lose an estimated $200 million and lead to a
second-quarter operating loss of as much as $120 million at the
company’s film unit.  “Act of Valor,” from Relativity Media LLC, had $2.1
million in sales for fifth place and has earned $65.9 million in
five weeks.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 91 percent to
$206.9 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
For the year-to-date, box-office sales have risen 19 percent to
$2.41 billion while attendance is up 22 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
 Dan Hart  in  Washington  at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net . 