-- ‘Mormon Factor’ Won’t Go Away With Nominee Romney
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2012-03-25T15:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/-mormon-factor-won-t-go-away-with-nominee-romney.html
Mitt Romney  has a persisting Mormon
problem. Less certain is whether this is limited to the
Republican primaries or it’s a general-election worry, too.  “This nomination would be in the bag if it weren’t for the
Mormon factor,” says John Geer, a professor of political
science at  Vanderbilt University  who works on the intersection
of religion and politics.  The exit polls from a plethora of primaries confirm that.
Romney, a deeply devout leader in the Church of  Jesus Christ  of
Latter-day Saints, gets clobbered among white evangelicals and
those who believe the religious views of a would-be president
matter a great deal. This has caused him to lose a few primaries
and denied him decisive wins in others.  Sometimes this hostility is openly articulated. Last year,
 Robert Jeffress , an evangelical leader who is the pastor of the
First Baptist Church of  Dallas , called Mormonism a “cult,” and
suggested Romney’s faith wouldn’t get him to heaven. It’s
expressed by some rank-and-file conservatives, too.  Scott
Thomas , a Catholic and Rick Santorum supporter in Broomall,
 Pennsylvania , wondered if Romney, rather than President  Barack Obama , “is the Antichrist.”  Anti-Mormon Bigotry  Usually this anti-Mormon bigotry is expressed more subtly,
camouflaged by voicing doubts on other matters. Some pollsters
say surveys don’t really capture the reservations; though they
surface more in focus groups.  In political circles there is division over how religion
might play in the fall campaign.  Many Republicans believe that anti-Mormon voting is
concentrated among Christian evangelicals and that the distaste
for Obama, among these voters, will trump those feelings. The
anti-Obama venom is palpable. In Mississippi and Alabama, about
half of Republican primary voters said the president, who is
Christian, was a Muslim.  Jeffress, the anti-Mormon preacher, says given this choice
he’d “hold my nose and vote for Romney.” Former Mississippi
Governor  Haley Barbour , a Republican, said: “There are 25,000
Southern Baptist preachers that’ll vote for a Mormon before they
vote for Obama.”  Although they belong to one of the fastest-growing
religions, Mormons still only account for about 2 percent of the
electorate.  Geer  suggests, however, that they may turn out in
large numbers to support their co-religionist in a general
election, making a difference in swing states such as Nevada and
 Colorado .  Some Democrats say that is unlikely. Mormons turn out in
high numbers anyway, and most are conservative Republicans; a
poll by the  Pew Research Center  last year found that 74 percent
of Mormons were Republicans. Thus, a Mormon presidential
candidate gets little added value from his religion.  By contrast, in 1960, when  John F. Kennedy  was elected,
Catholics constituted a voting bloc ten times larger than
Mormons are today. A half century ago, a majority of Catholics
were Democrats -- it’s about evenly divided now -- and there
still were sufficient numbers of Republican-leaning Catholics
who  voted for Kennedy to offset the resistance of some
Protestants.  Moreover, it isn’t just evangelicals who harbor
reservations. In a national poll by Bloomberg News this month, a
plurality of voters had an unfavorable view of the Mormon
Church; they held positive attitudes about the Catholic Church
by an almost 2-to-1 margin. The negativity about Mormons was
expressed by a plurality of important swing voters, political
independents and married women with children.  Born-Again Christians  There’s also a question, the anti-Obama effect
notwithstanding, of whether born-again Christians would
enthusiastically rally behind Romney if he’s the nominee. Their
reservations are clear. In a number of primaries, in the Midwest
as well as the South, Santorum beat Romney by double digits
among evangelicals, according to exit polls.  More striking was the behavior of those who say a
candidate’s religious beliefs matter a great deal. Romney, a man
of demonstrable religious involvement, should appeal to these
voters. Instead, he was trounced by Santorum among those who say
religion matters a great deal: 52 percent to 21 percent in  Ohio ;
51 percent to 17 percent in  Tennessee ; and 47 percent to 16
percent in  Alabama . In last week’s primary in  Illinois , which
Romney carried easily, he was pummeled again among these voters.  The most plausible explanation is anti-Mormonism, which may
transcend doctrinal and cultural attitudes. Southern Baptists
and Mormons are competing for similar converts: “There is a
high cost associated with mainstreaming your competition,” says
 Brett Benson , a political scientist at Vanderbilt who works with
Geer on these issues.  There are three strains of political anti-Mormonism, says
Benson, whose great-uncle, the late  Ezra Taft Benson , was the
head of the Mormon church: evangelicals, political left-wingers
who dislike the conservatism of members, and a middle group, not
that well-informed, that considers the religion  “weird or
strange.”  On the campaign trail, Romney occasionally talks about
faith and has mentioned his experiences in  France  in the late
1960s when he was a young missionary; he never utters the word
Mormon.  Yet his religion affects his campaign’s considerations and
calculations. An example: Florida Senator Marco Rubio, a
conservative Catholic, is on the short list to be Romney’s
running mate. A recent revelation that Rubio, as a child,
attended a Mormon church with his parents unsettles some
Republican strategists, who worry that the tidbit would provide
a feast for conspiracy buffs.  There is debate within the party over whether Romney should
directly address his religion. He gave a well-received speech
four years ago that didn’t change anything.  Benson cautions that Romney has a delicate balancing act.
He could appeal to the middle group, uninformed about Mormonism,
by stressing his Christian values. That would pose other
difficulties. “If Romney says he’s a Christian, it drives
Evangelicals away,” Benson says.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 