-- Egypt Shares Slump Most in Four Months on Soccer Clashes
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-03-25T14:53:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/abu-dhabi-shares-gain-most-in-2-weeks-as-oil-rise-boosts-outlook.html
Egypt’s benchmark stock index fell
the most in four months after soccer-related clashes left one
person dead and tension between the biggest party and the
military fueled concern about the transition to democracy.  EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO) , the biggest publicly traded Arab
investment bank, tumbled 6.4 percent. Egyptian Resorts Co., the
Red-Sea resort developer, plunged the most since April. The
benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  declined 3.6 percent, the most since Nov.
22, to 4,962.42 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. Most Persian
Gulf markets and Israel’s benchmark index gained.  Sixty-eight people were injured in clashes between security
forces and supporters of soccer club Al Masry, the state-run
 Middle East  News Agency reported yesterday, citing the health
ministry. They were protesting against a ban on the Port Said-
based team after deadly violence in February. Separately, the
Muslim Brotherhood, whose Freedom and Justice Party dominates
parliament, criticized the ruling military council for not
firing the cabinet of Prime Minister Kamal El-Ganzouri.  “There was no real positive news coming out over the
weekend so today we’re seeing mainly the concerns of retail
investors about rising tensions between the military council and
the Muslim Brotherhood, the clashes in Port Said and the fuel
shortage,” said Teymour El-Derini, head of Middle East and
North Africa sales at Naeem Brokerage in Cairo.  Dubai Index Rises  Footage on Egyptian televisions over the weekend showed
long lines of vehicles waiting at gas stations and some were
closed or turning drivers away, citing a shortage of fuel.
Egyptian General Petroleum Corp., a state-owned company, said
March 22 it’s increasing supplies of diesel and gasoline to
local filling stations to meet a surge in demand driven partly
by buyers who illegally export subsidized fuel.  EFG-Hermes declined the most since Nov. 22 to 12.79
Egyptian pounds.  Egyptian Resorts Co. (EGTS)  plunged 7.8 percent to
1.19 pounds.  Egypt’s benchmark index has climbed 37 percent this year,
making it the best-performing measure in the Arab world,
followed by  Dubai’s gauge , which is up 23 percent. The measure
gained 0.5 percent today and Abu Dhabi’s benchmark ADX General
Index climbed 0.8 percent, while Bahrain’s measure and Qatar’s
 QE Index (DSM)  added 0.6 percent. Kuwait’s benchmark index fell 0.4
percent and Oman’s MSM30 Index declined 0.7 percent.  Saudi Rally  Abu Dhabi’s Tourism Development & Investment Co. invited
companies to bid for main contract work for the emirate’s Louvre
museum, according to an advertisement in the Gulf News daily
newspaper.  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR) , the real-estate developer in
merger talks with  Sorouh Real Estate Co. (SOROUH) , gained 2.3 percent to
1.34 dirhams.  Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index increased 1.1
percent. The index climbed 1.8 percent yesterday after  oil
prices  rose, boosting the outlook of the Gulf Cooperation
Council, which holds one-fifth of the world’s proven oil
reserves.  “The sentiment right now is positive, not just because of
positive announcements from the U.A.E. but also from regional
developments and the performance of Saudi Arabia yesterday,”
said  Marwan Shurrab , assistant  fund manager  and chief trader at
Gulfmena Investments Ltd in Dubai.  Crude oil  for May delivery rose 1.4 percent to settle at
$106.87 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  on March 23
after Reuters reported Iranian oil exports will drop by 300,000
barrels a day this month because of tighter sanctions.  Israel’s TA-25 benchmark index advanced 1.1 percent, as
 Isramco Negev 2 LP (ISRAL)   and  Mizrahi Tefahot Bank Ltd. (MZTF)  gained.
Israel’s benchmark Mimshal Shiklit government bonds due January
2022 were at 107.08, pushing the yield on the 5.5 percent notes
down one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.69 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  