-- Madonna Grabs Back Pop Crown With Shock Disco
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-03-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/madonna-grabs-back-pop-crown-with-shock-disco-breakup-ballads.html
Madonna sets herself some tough
challenges on her 12th studio album, “MDNA.” She wants to
attack her former husband, keep up the tempo, look relevant and
sweep away all those preening young pretenders to her crown.  “There’s only one queen, and that’s Madonna,” she has one
of those pop princesses, Nicki Minaj, declare on one song.  “MDNA” tries hard, often too hard, and is soaked in slick
production. After 30 years in the business, Madonna Louise
Ciccone should know she doesn’t need the lavish studio effects
of newer stars such as Lady Gaga,  Britney Spears  or Rihanna.  It’s a better record than was suggested by the first
single, “ Give Me All Your Luvin’ .” That cheerleader number was
previewed to 111 million viewers on Feb. 5 at the most-watched
Super Bowl Halftime Show in history -- then stalled at No. 10 in
the charts. Not content with that piece of disposable pop
recalling  Toni Basil , Madonna’s lightweight follow-up single
“Girl Gone Wild” references Cyndi Lauper’s 1980s disco line
“girls, just wanna have fun.”  The first four tracks sound like castoffs from Madonna’s
dance-crazed “Hard Candy” from 2008, “Confessions on a Dance
Floor” from 2005 and accompanying live releases.  The twist this time is her renewed desire to provoke. While
she says “MDNA” is an abbreviation for “Madonna DNA,” it
also references the drug MDMA on “I’m Addicted.”  Lover Shot  “Gang Bang” -- another misguided title -- has her wanting
to shoot a lover and ends “I wanna see him die, over and over
and over and over.”  It’s like a Guy Ritchie movie. Her divorce from the U.K.
director looms over the record. “Would you have married me if I
were poor?” she asks on “Love Spent,” adding “I guess if I
was your treasury, you’d have found the time to treasure me.”  In “I Don’t Give A,” Madonna declares “I tried to be
your wife, I diminished myself” and “you were so mad at me,
who’s got custody? Lawyers, suck it up. Didn’t have a pre-nup.”  As ever, Madonna’s words and singing rarely match her
catchy tunes and attitude. She’s happier recalling past glories.
“MDNA” opens by quoting from the excellent “Like a Prayer”
(1989). The final four tracks reunite her with William Orbit,
who produced her glacial “Ray of Light” in 1998.  With Orbit at the helm, the boasting ends. We hear the
confessional side of the woman behind the Madonna brand. There’s
the acoustic “Masterpiece,” a Golden Globe-winning love song
from the film “W.E.” The ballad “Falling Free” is better,
all tender strings and a vulnerable voice shorn of bombast.  Madonna, 53, is preparing for another world tour. (The last
raised $408 million, the most by a solo artist, according to its
promoter  Live Nation (LYV)  Entertainment Inc.) She has fame and
fortune aplenty, of course, yet signs off with the wistful hope
that she can “turn around a love again.”  Rating: ***.  “MDNA” is released today on Interscope/Live Nation,
priced about $10 in the U.S. There’s a deluxe edition for $16,
adding five tracks. Download fees vary across services.  Information:  http://www.madonna.com .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 