-- Ahmadinejad Gets Blame and Sanctions as Economy Sputters
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-03-25T20:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/ahmadinejad-gets-blame-and-sanctions-as-economy-sputters.html
Mehdi slams a bottle of Heinz
ketchup on the counter of his Tehran grocery store and says it’s
the kind of item Iranians have stopped buying, after the price
doubled in two months.  “People are spending their cash with more caution,” Mehdi
said. He blames  Iran ’s government, as well as international
sanctions, for the inflation that is hurting his business.
“It’s a crisis in policy making, there’s not much thought
behind it,” he said. “It was obvious from the start that this
is what we were heading for.”  Iranians are celebrating the Persian New Year under
austerity conditions exacerbated by the U.S. drive to isolate
the Islamic republic’s $480 billion economy -- about the size of
 Norway . Measures aimed at curbing  Iran’s nuclear program  have
targeted trade, banking and oil exports. Some imports have
disappeared from the shelves and others have soared in price
amid a run on the Iranian currency that saw its dollar value
drop by half on the black market.  The sanctions are pushing up costs that were already
surging after the government started removing energy subsidies
less than a year and a half ago. Inflation has been above 20
percent since May, according to central bank figures.  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  this month became the first Iranian president to be
summoned to parliament and grilled about his economic policy,
and in legislative elections his allies lost ground.  ‘Worried About Inflation’  “Sanctions impact the most when the domestic policies of
the government are unsuccessful,” said Hossein Raghfar, an
economist at Al Zahra University in Tehran. “Purchasing power
has decreased and Iranians are worried about inflation,
especially employees who have a fixed income. The public
perception is that there is no management of the economy.”  Iran has the  Middle East ’s second-biggest oil reserves
after  Saudi Arabia . It earned about $100 billion from crude
exports in the 2011/2012 fiscal year, according to  International
Monetary Fund  projections. The U.S. and European Union are
blocking financial transactions with Iran, and an EU ban on
Iranian oil is due to enter force in July. Iran denies western
charges that it’s seeking to develop nuclear weapons capability.  More local production is the best way to counter the
effects of sanctions, Supreme Leader  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei  told
Iranians last week as they began almost two weeks of
celebrations for Nowrouz, the start of the Iranian calendar year.  Supreme Leader  “If we manage to boost our domestic production, a large
part of enemies’ efforts will no doubt be unsuccessful,”
Khamenei said. “If we lift domestic production we will solve
the issues of inflation and unemployment and our economy will be
reinforced.” He also urged Iranians to favor domestic products
whenever possible and shun imports.  In some cases, there’s no choice but to comply. In Tehran,
shoppers and retailers list the international brands they can no
longer obtain. Shahram, the head of a pharmacy on Vali-Asr
Avenue, says he had to stop stocking items including Gillette
razors and Pampers diapers, both made by  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)   Though sanctions prevent U.S. companies from selling to
Iran, their products often make their way to shelves in Tehran
and other cities through traders who purchase them in the U.S.
or abroad and send them to Iran.  Hit by Sanctions  The U.S. and  Europe  are using sanctions to ratchet up
economic pressure on Iran’s leaders in an effort to persuade
them to abandon any illicit part of their nuclear program. The
U.S., Europe and Israel have accused Iran of seeking the
capability to build a nuclear weapon. Iran says its program is
solely for civilian energy and medical research.  The Obama administration is under pressure to turn the
screws on Iran even tighter as  Israel  warns that it’s prepared
to take military action to prevent Iran from developing nuclear
weapons.  “The future of foreign products is unclear,” said Shahram,
who like Mehdi and many others interviewed in Tehran, declined
to be identified by his surname, citing concern that Iranians
who speak to foreign media risk reprisals. “Some shops had
stocks and stored them away, thinking that in the new year
perhaps prices will increase even more.”  Shahram said the price of locally made drugs “hasn’t
changed a cent” because it’s fixed by the government, and that
is hurting his business as costs rise. “When there’s inflation
and the government seeks to control prices, it’s not possible to
make profits,” he said. “We need to be able to go along with
inflation.”  Food Prices  At the Tajrish bazaar, Abdullah, 50, wearing plastic boots
up to his knees as he rinses fish for display, says the price of
a kilogram (2.2 pounds) of white fish, the traditional Nowrouz
meal, has risen as much as 50 percent to 120,000 rials ($10).
People are opting for cheaper options such as trout, selling at
65,000 rials, he says. Nuts and pistachios, another holiday
staple, have doubled to 300,000 rials a kilogram.  Higher food prices show how the effects of sanctions have
spread through the economy. Iran relies on imported manure,
while operating costs for farm machinery rose after subsidies
were cut in December 2010.  The measure aimed to save government money, make energy use
more efficient and direct spending toward the neediest Iranians,
who receive cash handouts. Officials say the second round of
subsidy cuts may start as early as June.  Expansionary Policies  The IMF backed the policy in a report published in July,
which forecast that Iran’s economy was set to grow 3.4 percent
this year, up from 2.5 percent in 2011. The fund predicted that
inflation would quicken initially, to an average of about 23
percent in the fiscal year ending in 2012, before retreating to
about half that level the following year, provided the
government maintained “tight credit and fiscal policies.”  Ahmadinejad’s administration failed to meet those
guidelines, pursuing expansionary policies when it should have
cut costs, limited imports and supported local producers,
economist Raghfar said. Under Ahmadinejad, who benefited from
high  oil prices  after taking office in 2005, Iran became a more
consumer-oriented society and imports surged, he said.  The president  defended  his policies during the special
parliament session on March 14. “The government faced the most
severe restrictions,” he said. “In this context of sanctions
and global crisis, it performed extremely well.”  Ahmadinejad, who isn’t eligible to run again when his term
ends in 2013, said recent price increases were caused by “games
around the gold and currency markets” not the subsidy cuts.  Nowhere for Nowrouz  The central bank limited the availability of dollars and
other currencies for Iranians after the rial plunged in January.  In any case, many Iranians who would usually have gone
abroad for Nowrouz couldn’t afford to do it this year, said
Mohsen Ghasemi, director of the Pardis tourism network. A knock-
on effect is increased demand for domestic travel, and hotels in
Iran’s main touristic cities such as Shiraz have lifted their
prices by 25 percent, Ghasemi said.  “My wife and I used to travel somewhere abroad every year
during the Nowrouz holidays,” said Hamid, in his mid-thirties
and manager of a hotel in the capital. “This year, everywhere
we’ve looked at is too expensive.” Packages to short-haul
destinations such as India and Lebanon cost at least 20 million
rials per person, he said.  Wealthier Iranians also are buying fewer  consumer goods . In
a northern Tehran computer shop dedicated to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  products,
salesman Khashayar says customers are dwindling after the price
of Apple computers and iPhones increased by about 30 percent in
a few months. “There were times when the shop would get so busy
we would close it just to take a break,” says Khashayar. “Six
months ago when we sold a dozen computers a day we would whine.
Now if we sell three or four we pat ourselves on the back.”  No More Tips  At the other end of Tehran’s economic ladder is Hassan
Jafarzadeh, 23, a former shepherd who moved to Tehran from the
northern province of Gorgan three years ago. For the past three
years he has worked for a restaurant, delivering food on his
motorbike for 150,000 rials a day.  “When I first came to Tehran, there was a lot of money
around,” Jafarzadeh said. “When I delivered food, people would
pay me tips. Now they don’t put their hands in their pocket
anymore.” He said the effect of Ahmadinejad’s cash handouts to
the poor has been wiped out by the jump in prices.  Mehdi, the grocer, predicts that inflation and scarcity
will worsen in the coming months, as routes for consumer goods
to reach Iran are closed off. He likened the standoff between
the U.S.-led bloc and Iran to “a game of cat and mouse.”  Listening, his assistant chipped in: “Until the mouse is
cornered.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  