-- Hannibal Lecter’s Beloved Chianti Gets More Sophisticated
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-03-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/hannibal-lecter-s-beloved-chianti-becomes-more-sophisticated.html
Chianti used to be so simple. It
was the pizza wine you bought in a green bottle in a straw
(later plastic) basket amusingly called a fiasco. Even if the
wine wasn’t all that good, you could always use the bottle
afterwards as a candleholder.  It was the drink on the table of every movie scene set in
an Italian restaurant, even the romantic dogs’ dinner in “Lady
and the Tramp.” A “nice Kee-ann-tee” was the preferred tipple
for Hannibal the Cannibal with his dinner of liver and fava
beans in “The Silence of the Lambs.”  That plonky image has been outdated for quite some time.
Starting in the 1970s, well-heeled, market-savvy innovators such
as aristocrats Marchese Piero Antinori of  Antinori  and Marchese
 Mario Incisa della Rocchetta  of  Sassicaia  within the Chianti
Classico region upgraded their own image and that of all
Chiantis in Tuscany. This helped the entire region obtain the
D.O.C.G. appellation from the Italian government that guarantees
high  quality  among wines along with strict standards that go
into making them.  If a vintage proves inferior, Chianti Classico can be
labeled only as a lowly vino da tavola (“table wine”), a
demotion that has never actually happened. In 1996, the Classico
zone received a separate D.O.C.G. appellation to distinguish it
from the rest in Tuscany. The Classico regional consortium was
founded in 1924 with 33 members and has more than 600 producers.  Blending Grapes  Chianti Classico must now be made with a minimum of 80
percent  sangiovese  grapes, based on modern, healthier clones. As
much as 20 percent of canaiolo, colorino,  cabernet sauvignon  or
other grapes are allowed. Beginning in 2006, the long tradition
of blending in white  trebbiano  and malvasia grapes was no longer
permitted. Also, the old “governo” process, by which unfermented
grape juice is added to young wines to restart fermentation and
make the wines marketable at an earlier date, is rarely done.  This leads to the question of just how different Chianti is
today from what it was when the name was first protected in
1716.  It was a legitimate query that came up at a media luncheon
at  New York ’s Morrell Wine Bar & Cafe held by the  Consorzio Vino
Chianti Classico . One wine writer complained that he missed the
lighter style and taste of the old Chianti. He preferred more
traditional examples from less prestigious regions like Colli
Aretini, Montalbano, Colli Senesi, and Rufina to the fuller-
bodied Classicos.  More Complexity  While I understood his nostalgic sentiment, I believe that
Chianti Classico is a much finer wine than it ever was, with
more complexity and body, even if the alcohol levels are
creeping up.  The food, by chef Jake Klein, was chosen to go with the
wines, rather than vice versa, to show off stylistic
differences. With herb-smoked buffalo mozzarella, fried porcini
and candied artichokes, a big, still very tannic 2007 Castello
di Monsanto Riserva ($20) showed those bold black cherry flavors
I associate with the sangiovese grape.  Terrabianca Scassino 2007 ($19) had a minty edge and went
very well with a chestnut puree with sweet spices and green
onion. Roasted duck breast with rosemary pound cake and tart
cherry needed a drier, less fruity wine than the 14 percent
alcohol  Fontodi  2008 ($30) that showed an overly lush style that
reminded me of some California sangiovese experiments.  Riserva Style  Castello La Leccia  2009 ($16) showed its fruit and acid in
a youthful balance, with pleasing, loose tannins. A 2007 San
Fabiano Calcinaia Cellole Riserva ($27) proved the intensity of
a riserva style -- riservas must spend 24 months aging, three in
the bottle. It had delicious black pepper and mint giving it a
power that, while impressive, seemed a real divergence from the
traditional subtleties I associate with fine Chianti Classico.  All the savory dishes that day had sweet elements that
Chianti Classico bonds to very well. Still, the serving of a
 Querciabella  2008 ($26), light in body and more in the old
familiar style, didn’t click with a dessert of floating island,
hot chocolate and Graham cracker. I would have matched it with
an aged Tuscan caprino cheese.  Overall, I thought the wines showed well, with the
distinctive flavors of the sangiovese grape preserved within the
many stylizations of a wine that’s moved out of the pizzeria
into the ristorante. Then again, pizza has now become
fashionable, so maybe the two can still make for an honorable
marriage. But finding one of those Chiantis in a fiasco isn’t so
easy anymore.  ( John Mariani  writes about wine for Muse, the arts and
culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 