-- Harper Welcomes Canadian Stamp on Glencore’s Takeover of Viterra
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-03-25T08:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/harper-welcomes-canadian-stamp-on-glencore-s-takeover-of-viterra.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper 
welcomed efforts by  Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  to keep assets in
“Canadian hands” through its proposed $6.1 billion takeover of
 Viterra Inc. (VT) , calling foreign interest in the country’s grain
sector a “tremendously good thing.”  The government’s main concern is the ability of farmers to
“retain choice in terms of their marketing options,” Harper
said at a news conference today in  Tokyo  after meeting with
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda .  “My understanding of the deal is that many of the assets
will actually remain in Canadian hands, so I’m not sure it
really would be categorized at this point as primarily a foreign
investment,” Harper said.  Glencore has teamed with Canadian companies to acquire
Viterra, Canada’s biggest grain handler, in a strategy that may
help the acquisition clear a review by the federal government
under the nation’s foreign-takeover law.  As part of the transaction, Calgary-based  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  will
acquire about 90 percent of Viterra’s Canadian retail facilities.
Glencore has also agreed to sell assets to Richardson
International Ltd., a unit of Winnipeg-based James Richardson &
Sons Ltd.  Political Backlash  The alliance with Canadian companies may help Glencore
avoid the political backlash faced by  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , which
had its takeover of  Potash Corp. (POT)  of Saskatchewan Inc. rejected
by the government in 2010. “The most important thing is that it
does show with the reforms we’re making to the grain sector, how
much interest there is now in the expansion of the grain sector
and the  agriculture sector  in Canada, and I think that’s a
tremendously good thing,” Harper said.  The federal government passed a law last year that will end
the Canadian Wheat Board’s monopoly and give farmers in western
Canada the choice to sell wheat and barley to other buyers as of
Aug. 1. Farmers have been required by law to sell the grains to
the Wheat Board under a system the government created to
stabilize prices.  Under the Investment Canada Act, the federal government
reviews foreign acquisitions of companies with assets valued at
more than C$330 million ($330 million).  The government’s rejection of  BHP Billiton ’s proposed
acquisition of Potash was only the second time a foreign
takeover has been scuttled under the act, which has been in
force since 1985.  ‘General Openness’  Harper’s Conservative government also blocked a bid by
Minneapolis-based  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK)  in 2008 to acquire
the aerospace division of Vancouver-based MacDonald, Dettwiler
and Associates Ltd.  Harper said the fact that only two takeovers have been
rejected demonstrates his government’s “general openness to
foreign investment.” It is only under “very rare and very
particular circumstances” that the government finds that
foreign acquisitions aren’t in Canada’s national interest, he
added.  “As long as we have a foreign investment review process in
Canada, there will always be some degree of uncertainty,” the
prime minister said. “We are committed to the concept, we’re
committed to having foreign investment in Canada, but we’re also
committed to the concept that that investment has to be reviewed
and we have to assure ourselves that it’s in the best interests
of this country.”  ‘Caution’  Harper said in a Sept. 21 interview with Bloomberg News
that  Canada  will “proceed with caution” as it considers
opening its doors to more foreign takeovers, making sure they
don’t lead to a loss of head office jobs and declining industry
leadership.  Canada’s policy for weighing takeovers is “highly
subjective and unpredictable,” the Toronto-based C.D. Howe
Institute said in a  study  released in December. The system,
which is more restrictive than in countries such as  Australia ,
may have contributed to the decline in Canada’s share of global
foreign-direct investment over the last 30 years, said Philippe
Bergevin and Daniel Schwanen, the study’s authors.  The C$16.25-a-share offer announced by Baar, Switzerland-
based Glencore will also require approval from Canada’s
Competition Bureau, which said it would be reviewing the
proposed transaction.  Saskatchewan Premier Brad Wall said in a March 22 interview
with Bloomberg that Glencore’s bid raises concerns about reduced
competition in the market for crop inputs such as fertilizer,
which Agrium sells at its retail outlets.  Wall said March 12 Viterra isn’t “strategic” for
Saskatchewan like Potash, though his government will review any
takeover bid for the grain handler to make sure a sale benefits
the province.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  