-- Australian Dollar Rises Against U.S. Peer on Yield Hunt
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-03-26T18:22:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/australian-n-z-dollars-maintain-gains-on-u-s-outlook.html
The Australian dollar advanced
against its U.S. counterpart after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  said accommodative monetary policy is still needed,
sending investors searching for higher yields.  The Australian and New Zealand currencies have climbed this
quarter against the greenback as shares and commodity prices
advanced on signs of improvement in the  U.S. economy  and as
concern eased that  Europe ’s debt crisis would damp growth. New
Zealand’s dollar advanced as the nation recorded a  trade surplus 
last month.  “U.S. economic indicators are good,” said Toshiya Yamauchi, a senior analyst in Tokyo at Ueda Harlow Ltd., which
provides currency margin-trading services. “What’s supporting
the Australian and New Zealand dollars are commodity prices that
remain elevated.”  Australia’s dollar, known as the Aussie, climbed 0.4
percent to $1.0508 at 1:22 p.m. in  New York . It rallied 1
percent to 87 yen.  New Zealand’s currency, or kiwi, advanced 0.3 percent to
82.07 U.S. cents and gained 0.9 percent to 67.96 yen.  The decline in U.S. unemployment may reflect “a reversal
of the unusually large layoffs that occurred during late 2008
and over 2009,” Bernanke said in a speech today in Arlington,
Virginia. “To the extent that this reversal has been completed,
further significant improvements in the  unemployment rate  will
likely require a more-rapid expansion of production and demand
from consumers and businesses, a process that can be supported
by continued accommodative policies.”  Interest Rates  The Fed has said it will probably hold interest rates
steady through 2014.  Australia ’s benchmark 4.25 percent interest
rate and New Zealand’s 2.5 percent compare to Japan’s near-zero
percent.  New Zealand’s exports exceeded imports in February by
NZ$161 million ($131 million), compared with a revised NZ$159
million deficit in January, the statistics bureau said today.
Economists had estimated a NZ$153 million surplus.  The Aussie has advanced 3 percent this year against the
greenback, while the kiwi has gained 5.6 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Total Return  Index (SPGSCITR)  for commodities has risen 8.4
percent during the period, while the  MSCI All Country World
Index (MXWD)  of stocks has climbed 12 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  