-- Lawmakers Call for Investigation of Facebook Password Requests
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2012-03-26T04:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/lawmakers-call-for-investigation-of-facebook-password-requests.html
Two U.S. senators want the  Justice
Department  to investigate whether employers who require job
applicants to hand over confidential passwords to Facebook and
other social networking sites are violating federal law.  New York Senator  Charles Schumer , the Senate’s third-
ranking Democrat, and Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a Democrat
from  Connecticut , said yesterday that they will ask the U.S.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to examine the practice
as well.  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the world’s biggest social networking site,
has described as “alarming” reports that some businesses ask
potential employees for passwords in order to view private posts
and pictures as part of the job-application process. The two
Democratic lawmakers said the practice could violate federal
anti-hacking statutes.  “Employers have no right to ask job applicants for their
house keys or to read their diaries. Why should they be able to
ask them for their Facebook passwords?” Schumer said in a press
release sent to reporters.  Blumenthal said that by requiring job applicants to provide
login credentials, employers could gain access to protected
information that would be impermissible for them to consider
when making hiring decisions. Those include religious
affiliation and sexual orientation, which are protected
categories under federal law.  Discrimination Lawsuits  Facebook said on March 23 that accessing such information
also could expose businesses to discrimination lawsuits. The
company said it might ask policy makers to take action to stop
the practice.  “An investigation by the  Department of Justice  and Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission will help remedy ongoing
intrusions and coercive practices,” Blumenthal said in the
senators’ statement.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman who
responded by e-mail, had no immediate comment yesterday on the
lawmakers’ request.  Facebook and other sites are already used by some potential
employers seeking additional background on job applicants
because of the personal information posted there. As Facebook
has given users additional ways to protect that information from
public view, reports have surfaced of employers asking job
applicants to voluntarily give them access by providing personal
login credentials.  The  Associated Press  first reported the growth in the
practice last week.  Elliot Schrage , a Facebook spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond yesterday to an e-mail requesting comment on
the call for an investigation.  Anti-Hacking Law  In a copy of the letter sent to Attorney General Eric Holder and provided to reporters, Blumenthal and Schumer asked
the department to investigate whether the practice is a
violation of the  Computer Fraud and Abuse Act , the primary
federal anti-hacking statute.  The lawmakers also asked the department to investigate
whether the practice violates the Stored Communications Act,
which prohibits intentional access to electronic information
without authorization or in excess of authorization.  In their letter to EEOC chairman Jacqueline Berrien, the
lawmakers requested an investigation into whether the practice
“may be used to unlawfully discriminate against otherwise
qualified applicants.”  “We strongly urge the commission to investigate and issue
a legal opinion,” the letter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington
at   michaelriley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  