-- Ban Prop Trading Under Other Names: Kelleher and Jarsulic
-- B y   D e n n i s   K e l l e h e r   a n d   M a r c   J a r s u l i c
-- 2012-03-25T23:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/ban-prop-trading-under-other-names-kelleher-and-jarsulic.html
The Volcker rule, the part of the
 2010 Dodd-Frank Act  that seeks to limit the threat that big
banks’ high-risk trading poses to the entire financial system,
is in trouble.  Named after former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker ,
the rule requires that bank holding companies stop proprietary
trading, in which they speculate with the banks’ own money. The
law specifically allows certain traditional, lower-risk
transactions, including market making, in which banks trade in
response to customer requests.  But banks are lobbying regulators to expand the  allowable
activities  by redefining market making. Regulators shouldn’t be
fooled: The banks want the right to continue prop trading, only
under a different name.  Market making isn’t new; it has been around for centuries
and has an established meaning. Market makers are intermediaries
who continuously stand ready to buy or sell some financial
instrument, often by providing bid-and-ask prices at which they
are willing to trade. That is, they provide immediacy to their
clients. They typically try to sell after they buy, and buy
after they sell, avoiding the risk of harmful price changes by
hedging and keeping inventories small. They make their income
from the difference between the prices at which they offer to
buy and sell, also known as the bid-ask spread. Done smartly,
market-making spreads cover operating and risk-bearing costs.  Bid-Ask Spread  For example, on any given day, a market maker may offer to
buy a corporate bond for $100 and sell the same bond for $102.
The $2 difference on the round trip is the bid-ask spread -- and
the source of the market maker’s revenue. Such a trade could be
done for a specific client or in anticipation of a client’s
needs.  Proprietary traders, by contrast, take positions in hopes
of profiting from price changes. If, for example, a trader
expects the asking price of the same corporate bond to increase
to $105, he could use the bank’s borrowing ability to acquire
1,000 bonds at $100 apiece, for a total of $100,000. The trader
would be betting that he can make $5,000 in gross revenue when
he sells the bonds.  In this example, the trader’s business is not providing
immediacy to clients, and his income comes not from spreads but
price appreciation on his holdings. This isn’t market making.  Proprietary trading can be very risky. When done on a large
scale, it involves borrowing vast amounts of money and making
huge bets on the price direction of securities or markets. If
the bet pays, banks and their traders reap millions, if not
billions, of dollars. If the bet is a bust, it can threaten the
trader, the bank and the entire system, as we  saw  in 2008.  The agencies responsible for enforcing the Volcker rule
understand that they must be able to distinguish between market
making and other kinds of trading. Their proposal would require
that trading desks generate revenue “primarily” from bid-ask
spreads or other types of intermediary payment, including one-
time fees or broker-type commissions.  Regulators are also proposing that employee compensation
that “primarily reward[s] proprietary risk-taking” would be
evidence that traders are not involved in market making. The
regulators have published a set of metrics to allow after-the-
fact determination of what traders have been up to.  The agencies understand the problem, yet their approach
would put them at a huge practical disadvantage. Traders in
pursuit of large bonuses would have an incentive to disguise
proprietary positions as client-related inventories or risk-
mitigating hedges. It would also be easy for traders to claim
large spikes in revenue arose from unanticipated market
volatility.  Whac-A-Mole Forensics  Under the proposed rule, regulators would be forced to
reconstruct history to counter claims by traders and their
lawyers that their money-making positions really were necessary
inventory or hedges; that market circumstances really were
unusual; or that in the long term their income really was
“primarily” from acceptable sources. This is a prescription for
endless and fruitless Whac-A-Mole forensics.  In their  comment letters  on the proposed regulations, large
banks provide a taste of the enforcement battles to come. Morgan
Stanley, for example, says that because market makers have to
hold inventories of large or illiquid assets for “days, weeks or
months,” they must necessarily have “substantial revenues from
market movements in their principal positions.” Citigroup Inc.
says that in “all but the most liquid portions of the equity,
rate and foreign exchange markets, profitability from bona fide
market-making-related activity is significantly derived from
price appreciation of inventory positions.”  In other words, when bank supervisors try to enforce the
rules, the banks are going to say their revenues are from
client-driven inventory holding and hedging. Regulators will
have the Sisyphean task of proving otherwise.  Fortunately, there are more  effective ways  to address these
problems. For example, the rule must presume that only trading
activity producing income from actual and observable spreads --
brokerage fees and commissions are suitable alternatives -- is
true market making. This means that a trader who takes a
successful speculative position, whether it was designated as
client inventory or as a hedge, cannot claim he is earning money
from market making. A crucial element of the incentive structure
that currently motivates proprietary trading -- big bonuses --
would be eliminated as a result.  Still, changing the allowable compensation structure is not
enough, given the outsized gains that can be realized on
successful trading bets. Clever people will look for ways to
game it. An effective enforcement program and substantial
penalties are needed as deterrents.  Minimal Enforcement  Sadly, the enforcement provisions in the proposed rule are
minimal. They merely state that when proprietary trading is
found, the bank may be ordered to “restrict, limit or terminate
the activity and, as relevant, dispose of the investment.”  This threat is likely to deter very little. If prop trading
is detected, the bank may be told to stop it, and may even be
required to unwind trades on its books. In other words, the
consequences of a violation would be minimal. Moreover, the bank
and its traders would keep any winnings from successful, but
undetected, trading. This is a bet that many traders would
gladly take.  A meaningful enforcement program must have financial
penalties that are multiples of the gain from violating the
rule, and must be assessed on the individuals, supervisors and
executives who sought to benefit. Without that, the cost of the
penalty could be shifted to stockholders.  Strengthening the proposed rule this way wouldn’t please
the major Wall Street banks. Doing so would significantly curb
their ability to make large, leveraged trading bets, which can
produce very large profits and bonuses when things go well. But
the social costs of allowing proprietary trading are just as
large -- and unacceptable. An effective Volcker rule is
essential to preventing a crisis from happening again.  (Dennis Kelleher is president and chief executive officer,
and Marc Jarsulic is chief economist, of Better Markets Inc., a
nonprofit advocacy group that promotes transparency in financial
markets. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Dennis Kelleher at  dkelleher@bettermarkets.com 
Marc Jarsulic at  mjarsulic@bettermarkets.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  