-- Bats CEO Scuttled IPO on Potential for Erratic Trading
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-03-25T13:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/bats-ceo-scuttled-ipo-on-potential-for-erratic-trading.html
The potential for “uncoordinated
and chaotic” trading after bad code corrupted its computers
spurred  Bats Global Markets Inc. (BATS) , the third-biggest U.S. stock
exchange operator, to scuttle its initial public offering,
according to the company’s chief executive officer.  Joe Ratterman, picked as CEO of the six-year-old stock
venue in 2007 after the high-frequency trader who founded Bats
left, said in a telephone interview that the board hasn’t
discussed leadership changes. While his team in Lenexa,  Kansas ,
responded in seconds when computer errors related to software
for the IPO auction derailed its stock and forced a halt in
Apple Inc., it wasn’t enough to salvage the public debut.  “It was embarrassing,” Ratterman said. “We feel terrible
about it. But the steps that were taken, I believe, were taken
at the right pace and the right actions were taken,” he said.
“The firm is responsible. We take responsibility. There’s no
outside influence here.”  Ratterman, 45, faces the biggest crisis of his career after
scrapping the IPO, intended to raise money for the Wall Street
firms that guided Bats from a company with 13 employees six
years ago into the third-largest American equities exchange. The
cancellation emboldened critics of modern market structure, who
say the mosaic of more than 50 trading sites that grew up in
tandem with electronic trading during the last 15 years has put
investors at risk.  ‘Isolated Events’  “There are going to be isolated events at the different
market centers over time,” Ratterman said. “We’ve had
historically very few instances where our systems have gone
down, but they have gone down in different ways in the past like
every other venue. I don’t think this is anything new as much as
it was under a bright spotlight.”  Bats priced 6.3 million shares at $16 on March 22 and was
ready to begin trading a day later when one of its computers
malfunctioned, triggering events that ended with the IPO’s
cancellation. While the company reported its opening transaction
for $15.25 a share at 10:45 a.m. New York time on its  website ,
feeds including those sent to Bloomberg LP displayed different
prices. At 11:14 a.m., data showed 1.26 million shares had
traded, with the lowest at 0.02 cent.  Compounding the confusion, a single trade for 100 shares
executed on a Bats venue briefly sent  Apple (AAPL)  down more than 9
percent to $542.80, setting off a circuit breaker that paused
the stock everywhere in the country for five minutes. The shares
rebounded and the errant trade at 10:57 a.m., along with all
transactions in Bats shares, was canceled.  Wall Street Owners  Bats held a conference call with its underwriters starting
before the opening auction process began at 10:30 a.m. that
lasted into the afternoon. The glitch became obvious
“immediately following the auction” when the transaction
didn’t reach public feeds and quotations weren’t processed,
Ratterman said. Engineers rushed to diagnose the problem and
software developers began to fix the code once the problem was
identified.  The $15.25 level generated by the auction, even though it
was down 75 cents from the price set by underwriters the night
before, was valid because the software glitch didn’t affect the
process of establishing it, he said. Bats planned to be the
first company to list on its exchange.  “That print, we believe, was a correct price,” said
Ratterman, who holds a bachelor’s degree in math and computer
science from Central Missouri State University. “It was a
little disappointing personally, but we were more focused on the
functioning of the system than we were on the value of the
print.”  Expanding Exchanges  Pulling the IPO hurt Bats and the brokerage and trading
firms who steered it to prominence as a way of holding down fees
when the New York Stock Exchange and  Nasdaq  Stock Market
expanded by buying electronic rivals. The company was initially
built to service high-frequency firms like Tradebot Systems
Inc., whose CEO Dave Cummings founded it. Automated trading firm
Getco LLC and Wedbush Inc., owner of an investment bank whose
clients include high-speed traders, have equity stakes.  The malfunctions are refocusing scrutiny on market
structure in the U.S., where two decades of  government
regulation  have broken the grip of the biggest exchanges and
left trading fragmented over dozens of venues, including
electronic communications networks and dark pools. Bats, whose
name stands for Better Alternative Trading System, expanded in
tandem with the automated firms that now dominate the buying and
selling of American equities.  “Bats is obviously for-profit and NYSE and Nasdaq are
public companies,” said Joseph Saluzzi, a partner at Themis
Trading LLC in Chatham,  New Jersey , said in a phone interview
March 23. “They need to address shareholder wealth first and
investor protection second.”  Investigating ‘System Issues’  Bats sent a notice about 10 minutes before the Apple halt
saying it was investigating “system issues.” More than three
hours after trading closed, the company said in a statement that
a computer that matches orders in companies with ticker symbols
starting with A to BFZZZ “encountered a software bug related to
IPO auctions.” The glitch made existing customer orders for
those securities unavailable for trading.  Ratterman said the decision to cancel the offering was made
by his  executive team  in consultation with the syndicate desks
of the underwriters.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Credit Suisse Group AG and
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , all of which own stakes in the company, managed
the offering. Bats also discussed withdrawing the IPO with board
members on the pricing committee. Scrapping the deal reflected
its responsibility as a so-called self-regulatory organization
to maintain fair and orderly trading, he said.  Exchange Obligation  “We had the ability to decide to pull the IPO because we
were the issuer,” he said. “But our decision to do so was
based off what we thought was potentially going to be a very
uncoordinated and chaotic open on the first day of an issue. It
was more about our function as an exchange that we made the
decision for the trading community and we put our interest in
the IPO completely aside.”  Almost half of the 6.3 million Class A shares being offered
were from the estate of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , with
another 1.1 million from Getco, according to Bats’s March 21
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Bats also
planned to pay a $100 million dividend to shareholders including
its 10 main financial company investors such as  Bank of America
Corp. , Deutsche Bank AG and Instinet Inc. The failure of the
deal voided the payment.  Ratterman said the company, which operates two trading
platforms in the U.S., prepared for the first day of trading by
running mock IPO auctions in which its technicians tried to
anticipate problems. In a February filing with the SEC, Bats
said its BZX Exchange was accessible to users 99.94 percent of
the time, while its BYX Exchange, its second market, was
available 99.998 percent of the time.  ‘Daily Auction Testing’  “There was an amazing amount of testing,” he said. Bats
earlier this year had successful debuts for nine exchange-traded
funds. “Those tests were happening for three to four weeks
leading up to this with daily auction testing. This is an
example of an edge scenario -- that despite hundreds and
hundreds of tests and code reviews, there was a condition code
that had not been seen.”  The exchange operator was trying to raise money for its
selling shareholders less than two years after a crash erased
$862 billion in less than 20 minutes from U.S. share values, a
plunge that critics linked to the fragmented market structure
that helped Bats thrive.  An official with the SEC’s enforcement division said last
month that the agency is examining trading practices that gained
dominance in the past decade amid the shift to automation.
Daniel Hawke, head of the market-abuse unit, said the SEC is
looking at techniques such as co-location, in which exchanges
let traders place computers close to the market to shave time
off executions.  SEC Request  Bats itself got a request from the SEC for information on
the types of orders its customers use. The inquiry, disclosed in
a regulatory filing Feb. 23, sought information about how order
types have evolved. Bats said regulators asked for documents
“related to the development, modification and use of order
types, and our communications with certain market
participants,” including some of Bats’s owners.  The company hasn’t commented on the SEC’s request. Once the
computer errors emerged on the day of the IPO, Bats was in
contact with the commission “within minutes” of the 10:45 a.m.
auction and stayed in touch during the day, Ratterman said. His
team of programmers and engineers responded in “fantastic
fashion” even though trading in the company’s shares never
resumed.  “If we were to find wrongdoing or incompetence on the
development side as we review this, then clearly we would need
to take action. I don’t suspect we’ll find that,” he said.  “If we could go back, we would clearly hope to find the
bug in testing before it was found in production.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  