-- Bats Founder Says Suspend Bonuses, Resurrect IPO
-- B y   N i c k   B a k e r
-- 2012-03-25T21:23:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/bats-founder-says-suspend-bonuses-resurrect-ipo.html
Bats Global Markets Inc. (BATS)  should
suspend employee bonuses and resurrect its botched initial
public offering by the end of June, according to founder Dave Cummings, who defended the changes to U.S. equities markets that
the company benefited from.  The third-largest operator of U.S. stock exchanges withdrew
the IPO on March 23 after errors on its own computers kept the
stock from trading and halted Apple Inc. Pulling the deal capped
a day of embarrassments for the Lenexa, Kansas-based company,
which rose to prominence with the electronic trading industry.  “This was a freak one-time event,” Cummings, 43, wrote in
an e-mail today. He left Bats, which he founded in 2005, to
rejoin high-speed trading firm Tradebot Systems Inc. in 2007.
“American capitalism is sometimes messy, but it is what makes
this country great.”  Chief Executive Officer Joe Ratterman said in an interview
yesterday that the potential for “uncoordinated and chaotic”
trading after bad code corrupted its computers prompted Bats to
cancel the deal.  “Ironically, the software bug itself is probably the
easiest thing to correct,” Cummings wrote. “Bats has built
great software,” he said. “However, the code to open an IPO is
new. It has been tested in the lab, but until this week not in
real-world production. These systems are very complicated.  Bugs
do occur. Bats just happened to discover a bug at the most
embarrassing time possible.”  Archipelago, Inet  Bats was formed two months after the New York Stock
Exchange announced plans in 2005 to go public by combining with
Archipelago Holdings Inc. and Nasdaq Stock Market announced its
purchase of Inet ECN. Archipelago and Inet were then the largest
electronic communication networks, or ECNs, which match buy and
sell orders and compete with exchanges.  Cummings created Bats with 12 employees to counter the
emerging NYSE and Nasdaq duopoly. Executives at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., Citigroup Inc., Merrill Lynch & Co. and other banks
said in 2005 that the lack of competition after the purchases
would hurt users by limiting their choice about how and where to
execute orders and enabling exchanges to raise transaction fees.  “When the public wants to invest, they can push a button
and get a fair fill in less than a second,” Cummings wrote
today. “The markets will never be perfect, but the reality is
that they work very well.”  Cummings, a Bats director, said employee bonuses should be
suspended because of the failed offering.  “Bats won’t pay bonuses which were based on the completion
of the IPO, since it wasn’t completed successfully,”  Randy Williams , a Bats spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Baker in New York at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  