-- Bitter Money Fights Shaped U.S History (Part 1): Johnson
-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n   a n d   J a m e s   K w a k
-- 2012-03-25T23:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/bitter-money-fights-shaped-u-s-history-part-1-johnson-kwak.html
On June 1, 1812, President  James Madison  asked Congress to consider a declaration of war against
Britain. The Democratic-Republican majority was happy to oblige.  Britain’s insults to the U.S. ranged from seizing its ships
and forcing its sailors into the Royal Navy to supporting
American Indian attacks along the Western frontier.  With war approaching, it fell to Treasury Secretary Albert
Gallatin to figure out a way to pay for it. Gallatin hoped to
borrow the money, but he wanted to raise taxes to cover the
interest on the new debt. He worried that, otherwise, bond
investors would be unwilling to lend large amounts of money to a
young country. But the war hawks were ideologically and
politically opposed to taxes -- particularly the excise
(internal trade) taxes that Gallatin favored.  As the party of small government, the Democratic-
Republicans believed that higher federal taxes were a threat to
individual and states’ rights. They also feared that raising
taxes could hurt them at the ballot box. Congress did increase
some tariffs (taxes on external trade) in the run-up to war, but
failed to approve internal taxes while still expecting Gallatin
to find funds to borrow. As Gallatin feared, there weren’t
enough investors willing to lend the amount needed. The
government was forced to print money.  Too Late  By 1813, with the war in full swing and the government
weeks away from running out of money, Gallatin convinced
Philadelphia banker Stephen Girard to underwrite a huge loan.
Later in the year, with the U.S. military unable to achieve any
of its major objectives, Congress finally agreed to impose
excise taxes. But it was too late to build a world-class
military.  After a decade of tight budgets, the U.S. Navy had begun
the war with all of 17 ships. The Royal Navy commanded more than
1,000 ships. Even with many of them committed elsewhere, Britain
was still able to blockade America’s Eastern shoreline and raid
the coast. Chesapeake Bay, the broad waterway leading to both
Washington and Baltimore, was defended by a collection of barges
and gunboats outclassed by the British navy and soon trapped in
the Patuxent River.  In August 1814, British ground forces landed in Benedict,
 Maryland , less than 40 miles from the U.S. capital. The soldiers
marched overland from Benedict, defeated an American militia at
the Battle of Bladensburg, and eventually reached Washington,
where they encountered little resistance. On the night of Aug.
24, they burned the Capitol, the Treasury Building and the White
House, after eating the dinner that had been set for that
evening.  What the British had, more than anything else, was money.
By contrast, without a stable source of tax revenue, the U.S.
struggled to attract lenders willing to bet on the country’s
unproven armed forces. This deep fiscal crisis had its roots in
a bitter, decades-long political battle.  Beginning in 1790, Treasury Secretary  Alexander Hamilton 
had pushed through controversial fiscal policies that included a
restructuring of the national debt, federal government
assumption of state debts, a national bank and excise taxes.
Opposition to Hamilton’s policies led  Thomas Jefferson  and James
Madison to found the Democratic- Republican Party  (often known
simply as the Republican Party), which faced off against
Hamilton’s Federalists.  No New Taxes  The small-government, anti-tax Republicans swept the
elections of 1800, with Jefferson defeating Federalist incumbent
President  John Adams , and proceeded to reverse many of
Hamilton’s policies, including his excise taxes. To pay for
these tax cuts, the Republicans cut defense spending. It was
this battle over taxes and spending that led to the country’s
fiscal weakness in 1812.  Ironically, the Republicans, who voted for war but not for
the taxes to pay for it, were the political victors of the War
of 1812. The Federalists’ opposition to the war, which extended
to attempts to undermine the Treasury Department’s fundraising
efforts, made the party appear unpatriotic, and it never again
gained national power.  At the same time, the war vindicated the principles laid
out by Hamilton two decades earlier. Both Federalists and
Republicans had always been “fiscally responsible” in the
shallow sense that they believed the country should make
required payments on its debts. But there is a deeper meaning of
fiscal responsibility: the recognition that if you want
something, you have to pay for it, either now or in the future.
If a government cannot demonstrate that type of fiscal
responsibility -- through the willingness and capacity to levy
taxes when necessary -- it will have trouble borrowing money in
a time of crisis. This was missing in the Congress of 1812.  Fast forward to 2011. Once again,  Washington  is embroiled
in a bitter partisan fight over taxes and spending. On Aug. 2,
2011, political squabbling brought the nation within a few days
of defaulting on the national  debt .  Because of the debt ceiling -- a legal limit on the total
national debt -- the Treasury Department could no longer borrow
new money and was in danger of running out of cash to pay the
country’s bills. Republicans demanded that any increase in the
debt ceiling be accompanied by dollar-for-dollar reductions in
spending. Democrats insisted either that the debt ceiling be
increased without conditions or that any deal to reduce the
deficit also increase taxes. (Both sides declined to mention
that they had just months before collaborated on a major  tax cut 
that increased the national debt by almost $860 billion.)  Record Deficits  This latest battle was provoked by record federal
government budget  deficits , which in 2009 and 2010 exceeded $1
trillion for the first and second times in history. These
deficits were primarily due to the 2007-2009 financial crisis,
which triggered a severe recession, reduced tax revenues and
increased spending. The second-most important cause of those
deficits was major tax cuts in 2001 and 2003 that, unlike the
1802 tax cut, were not offset by spending reductions. But the
real debate is over future spending.  In 1812, some Republicans opposed the war because they
didn’t want higher spending or higher taxes. But the majority of
Republicans wanted war without the necessary tax increases.
Today, the central debate is over increasing federal spending on
retirement, disability and health-care programs such as Social
Security, Medicare and Medicaid, which threaten to outstrip
growth in tax revenue.  One possibility, favored by most Republicans, is to scale
back those programs to avoid the need for higher taxes. Another
possibility, favored by many Democrats, is to maintain those
spending commitments while raising taxes to pay for them. A
compromise position -- some spending reductions and some tax
increases -- is also conceivable. But our highly polarized
political system is on the course set by the 1812 Congress:
higher spending without higher taxes. This inability to make any
fiscally responsible choice is how a dysfunctional political
system could cause a true fiscal crisis in one of the richest,
most powerful nations in the history of the world.  The specter of national deficits has been a fixture of
American politics for most of the three decades since 1980, when
 Ronald Reagan  won the presidency by promising higher defense
spending, lower taxes and lower deficits. Reagan oversaw what
were, at the time, the largest peacetime deficits in history,
caused largely by a huge 1981 tax cut.  Since then, inflated rhetoric about the national debt has
mainly served as a tool that politicians use to argue for
unrelated policy objectives, which as often as not increase the
debt.  But we should not be too quick to place all the blame on
politicians. Ordinary people, at least as measured by opinion
polls, are also deeply divided -- within themselves. In early
2011, 64 percent of Americans worried a great deal about
“federal spending and the  budget deficit ” (second only to the
“economy”).  No Program Cuts  In one survey, 95 percent of respondents supported reducing
the deficit by cutting  government spending  (on its own or in
conjunction with tax increases). At the same time, 78 percent
opposed cuts in Medicare spending, 69 percent opposed cuts in
Medicaid spending, and 56 percent opposed cuts in military
spending.  Politicians behave accordingly. During the health-care
debate of 2009, Republicans positioned themselves as defenders
of Medicare spending by opposing cuts proposed by the Obama
administration (remember, people like Medicare). On Dec. 6, the
Senate Republican leader,  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , issued a
news release titled “Cutting Medicare Is Not What Americans
Want.” But the next day, responding to a Democratic proposal to
allow people ages 55 to 64 to buy into Medicare, McConnell
played the deficit card with another news release, “Expanding
Medicare ‘A Plan for Financial Ruin.’”  Although it is possible to reconcile both positions, the
politics are quite simple: Oppose any effort to expand popular
programs on the grounds that they are fiscally unsustainable,
while simultaneously attacking any effort to make those programs
sustainable as a cut in benefits (or an increase in taxes).  As a nation, we will have to make a choice, one way or
another. If the national debt grows faster than the economy for
long enough, investors could lose their appetite for Treasury
bonds, making it impossible for the government to borrow money
at any price -- as almost happened in 1813.  ( Simon Johnson  and  James Kwak  are authors of “13 Bankers”
and co-founders of The Baseline Scenario, a blog on economic and
public policy. Johnson is also a Bloomberg View columnist. This
is the first of three excerpts from their new book, “White House
Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It
Matters To You,” to be published by the Knopf Doubleday Group on
April 3. The opinions expressed are their own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Simon Johnson at  sjohnson@mit.edu  and James Kwak at
 jamesykwak@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 