-- BOE’s Cohrs Says Culture Change at Banks Needed for Stability
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/boe-s-cohrs-says-culture-change-at-banks-needed-for-stability.html
Bank of England  Financial Policy
Committee member Michael Cohrs said the culture and incentives
at banks need to change in order avoid systemic problems.  “Ultimately, it is the culture within individual banks and
the incentive systems that drive risk taking which need to be
changed,” he said in the text of speech delivered March 23 in
Edinburgh. “The good news is that I see evidence that banks are
changing incentive systems and this will lead to a different
culture within the banks which society will prefer.”  The record of the FPC’s March 16 meeting published last
week noted that banks have made progress in limiting pay while
they build buffers against future shocks, though the panel said
they still need to raise more capital. The FPC meets quarterly
on an interim basis while legislation on its powers is
considered in Parliament.  The 11-member panel, chaired by Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King , will ask lawmakers for three tools to help it limit
system-wide financial risks. It set aside a request for tools to
limit mortgages in part because these would need a “high level
of public acceptability,” and said it would welcome debate on
the issue. Lawmaker  Andrew Tyrie  said the decision reflected an
“accountability gap” in the legislation.  Cohrs said accountability and transparency are “extremely
important” as the panel may one day need to make politically
unpopular decisions such as constraining an “electorally
popular credit boom,” said Tyrie, who chairs the Treasury
Select Committee that scrutinizes the Bank of England. Making
such decisions will require a panel that is independent in the
same way as the Monetary Policy Committee.  “The howls one will inevitably hear when doing it make it
hard unless the FPC, and the Bank, have a strong degree of
independence,” he said. “The FPC is in a tricky position as it
faces a difficult balancing act between public accountability
and the need for independence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  