-- BOJ Crosses Rubicon With Desperate Monetary Policy, Hirano Says
-- B y   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-03-25T23:51:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/boj-crosses-rubicon-with-desperate-monetary-policy-hirano-says.html
The  Bank of Japan ’s decision to
expand bond purchases and set a 1 percent inflation goal was a
step too far that leaves the monetary authority likely to 
finance government deficit spending, a former executive said.  “They looked like really desperate measures,” Eiji Hirano, 61, who was a BOJ  executive director  in charge of
international affairs from 2002 to 2006, said in an interview
last week in Nagoya, central Japan.  The yen weakened and stock prices rose in the world’s
third-largest economy after Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his
policy board unexpectedly pledged on Feb. 14 to buy 10 trillion
yen ($121 billion) in government debt and set the inflation
target. That market reaction creates the “illusion” that
 monetary policy  alone can cure Japan’s economic woes and may
compel the BOJ to bolster bond purchases further and monetize
public debt, Hirano said.  “It looks like they have crossed the Rubicon,” said
Hirano, who is now executive vice president at Toyota Financial
Services Corp. That term means passing a point of no return and
refers to  Julius Caesar  leading his army across the river in an
act of war.  Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average rose to the
highest in a year and the yen fell to an 11-month low against
the dollar after the February decision, buoying earnings
prospects for exporters who last year faced a currency at a
postwar high against the dollar. Easing concerns on  Europe ’s
debt crisis and optimism about the  U.S. economy  have been
factors in yen and stock moves, Hirano said.  Mired in Deflation  Japan’s output gap widened to minus 3.4 percent of gross
domestic product in the three months to December, Cabinet Office
data show, suggesting that supply still trumps demand in an
economy that has been mired in deflation for more than a decade.
It will take more than two years to eradicate the gap, according
to Junko Nishioka, chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd.  “It’s hard to imagine that the gap between supply and
demand will be filled and prices climb close to 2 percent,”
Hirano said. “Rather, a nightmare scenario is possible” in
which increased pessimism on  Japan  lowers the value of the yen,
stocks and bonds, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  