-- Chavez Says He’s Going to Cuba for First Radiation Therapy
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-03-25T01:21:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/chavez-says-he-s-going-to-cuba-for-first-radiation-therapy-1-.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said he’ll leave for Cuba today to begin his first rounds of
radiation therapy tomorrow as he tries to recover in time to
campaign for a third consecutive term in October elections.  Chavez, speaking on state television, said he should return
to  Venezuela  in the next few days after several sessions of
radiation therapy, which will take place over four to five
weeks. Doctors yesterday removed the final stitches from an
operation in February, Chavez said at a meeting with ministers.  “We are intent on my full recovery from this disease that
caught me off guard, as they say, so I can move forward and
continue together with all of you,” Chavez, 57, said from the
presidential palace, with flowers and a bust of his hero, South
American liberator  Simon Bolivar , in the background. “My
recovery has been fast, progressive.”  The socialist leader, who had a second cancerous tumor
removed from his pelvic area during an operation Feb. 26, says
he’s fit enough to win another six-year-term after undergoing
his third cancer surgery in eight months. Still, the former tank
commander’s treatment of his illness as a state secret has
fueled speculation his health is worse than he’s letting on.  Chavez has not disclosed what type of cancer he has. Chavez
returned from Cuba last week following the surgery and a three-
week convalescence on the communist island.  Chavez said that doctors in Cuba on Feb. 26 removed a two-
centimeter “lesion” from the same area where a larger tumor
was removed in June 2010. Doctors determined it was probably a
malignant recurrence that hasn’t spread to other parts of his
body, Chavez said.  Chavez and opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski
are locked in a statistical tie, according to one poll. Chavez
was supported by 46 percent of those surveyed in the poll by
Caracas-based Consultores 21 taken between March 3 and March 13,
while Capriles had 45 percent. The poll used a sample of 2,000
people with a margin of error of 2.3 percentage points,
Consultores 21 Vice President Saul Cabrera said in a phone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  