-- China Soft Landing May Be Hard for Commodity Exporters
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-26T08:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/china-s-soft-landing-still-may-be-hard-for-commodity-exporters.html
The good news:  China ’s government
will engineer a soft landing. The bad news: Even a soft landing
is painful for industries that have become dependent on the
world’s fastest-growing major economy as their main profit
engine.  Analysts at Deutsche Bank AG, Nomura Holdings Inc. and
Daiwa Capital Markets raised forecasts this month for 2012
expansion to as high as 8.6 percent, partly on anticipation of
looser monetary policy. The projections, still below last year’s
9.2 percent rate, offer little comfort for Australian mining
company  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , seeing slower steel production in
China, or German automaker  Daimler AG (DAI) , whose Mercedes dealers in
the nation are giving record discounts.  “China’s still going to be growing reasonably strongly,”
said  Nicholas Lardy , senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington and author of the 2012
book “Sustaining China’s Economic Growth after the Global
Financial Crisis.” Even so, “the super commodity cycle that
was driven by China is moderating, and exporters that have
ridden the property boom over the last four or five years face a
much tougher time.”  Premier Wen Jiabao’s curbs on property sales and his plan
to tilt the economy toward consumption and away from a
dependence on capital spending have reduced production of steel
and cement and helped push iron-ore prices  down  more than 20
percent from last year’s high. At the same time, policy makers
are ready to take any action necessary to avert a steep
deceleration in a year when the ruling Communist Party desires a
stable leadership transition, said  Tim Condon  of ING Financial
Markets.  ‘One-Way Bet’  “The idea that commodities are just a one-way bet as an
asset class is over,” said Condon, ING’s Singapore-based head
of Asia research, who previously worked at the World Bank. “My
baseline view is that China will still do whatever it takes to
keep growth going. It if slows too much, they will stimulate.”  Copper fell to a two-week low in  New York  March 22 after a
preliminary purchasing managers’ index for China from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to 48.1 from a final
49.6 in February. Readings below 50 signal contraction. Nickel
and lead also erased gains for the year. China is the world’s
largest user of copper.  BHP Billiton , based in Melbourne, Australia, and  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) , a Baar, Switzerland-based supplier of
commodities and raw materials, already have been roiled by the
slowest expansion rate in China since the global recession ended
in 2009, with shares of both down more than 20 percent from a
year ago.  Weaken Currencies  Concerns about China and its property market probably will
weaken Australia’s and Brazil’s currencies, according to Stephen Jen, managing partner at SLJ Macro Partners LLP in  London . The
Australian dollar, which traded at $1.0467 March 23 against the
U.S. dollar, may test parity within the next few weeks, while
Brazil’s real may drop to as low as 2.50 per U.S. dollar, a
level not seen since 2008, he predicted. It traded at 1.8102
March 23.  While the yuan was fixed today at 6.2858, a record high
against the dollar, the currency has been little changed this
year amid slowing export growth, after a gain of 4.7 percent in
2011. Pressure for appreciation has declined as China’s current
account and trade surpluses have fallen over the past four years,
said  Louis Kuijs , an economist with the Fung Global Institute in
 Hong Kong .  Boosting Consumption  China’s government has been trying to reverse a surge in
home prices, boost consumption and move away from exports and
capital spending without causing a sharp reduction in growth.
Wen pared this year’s expansion target to 7.5 percent from an 8
percent goal in place since 2005, he announced March 5 at the
legislature’s annual conference.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 2.7 percent in three days
on the news. U.S. and European stocks fell March 20 on concerns
about China after the country raised fuel prices by the most in
two years and BHP Billiton said China’s steel-output growth has
flattened.  Any slowdown may be offset by increasing momentum in the
U.S., still more than double the size of China’s economy. The
Labor Department recently reported the best six-month streak of
job growth since 2006, sales of previously owned homes held in
February near an almost two-year high and the  Federal Reserve 
has said it will keep its benchmark  interest rate   near zero 
until at least late 2014.  Boao Debate  Debate over China’s economic direction may take center
stage next week at the Boao Forum for Asia, a three-day
conference for business and political leaders modeled on the
World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, and held on China’s
southern resort island of Hainan. More than 150 officials and
executives are scheduled to attend, including Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , PepsiCo Inc. Chairman  Indra Nooyi  and World Bank
President Robert Zoellick.  Some resources may get a boost from Wen’s efforts to shift
the economy toward consumer spending. So-called soft commodities
that are grown, including corn and wheat, “may in fact benefit
from dietary changes and upgrades, boding well for agricultural-
related sectors,” said Jenny Tian, a managing partner at
Springs Capital Ltd., which oversees about $700 million in Hong
Kong.  Animal-Feed Growth  Tian owns Chinese animal-feed companies including  Guangdong
Haid Group Co. (002311) , based in Guangzhou, and Beijing Dabeinong
Technology Group Co., while avoiding construction machinery and
so-called hard commodities, such as metals, that are mined or
extracted, she said.  These industries are suffering from slower capital spending
and curbs on the property market, which accounts for more than
one-fourth of final domestic demand, according to UBS AG. Higher
down payments and restrictions on mortgage interest rates and
housing purchases in 40 cities contributed to home prices in
February posting the worst performance in a year, and sales
falling 25 percent in the first two months of 2012.  Wen on March 14 indicated no imminent relaxation of the
cooling measures, saying home prices remain far from a
reasonable level and easing curbs could cause “chaos” in the
market.  Investment in roads and other infrastructure may decline 25
percent in China’s five-year plan through 2015 when adjusted for
inflation, and home ownership, at 67 percent, already is above
the global average, said Tao Dong, chief regional economist at
Credit Suisse AG in Hong Kong. The “golden age” of China’s
boom in these economic segments is over, he said.  Shoring up Growth  China’s leaders, while guiding the economy to a soft
landing, have monetary, fiscal and regulatory ammunition to
shore up growth as they deem necessary.  Inflation that touched a 20-month low of  3.2 percent  in
February will allow policy makers to “ramp up money supply and
stimulate the economy if they need to,” said  Mark Mobius , Hong
Kong-based executive chairman of the Templeton Emerging Markets
Group, which manages $50 billion in assets.  Policy makers, in theory, have large scope for lowering big
banks’ reserve requirements from the current level of 20.5
percent of deposits, People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said March 12, comparing it with a 6 percent ratio as
recently as 2003. They’ve also kept a benchmark interest rate at
 6.56 percent , even as central banks in Europe, Brazil and
Australia have cut borrowing costs.  Easing Curbs  The government will ease its property curbs as early as
midyear, predicts Fred Hu, chairman of Primavera Capital, a
Beijing-based private-equity firm he founded.  “It’s not a question of whether, it’s a question of how
soon” policy makers will act to support local-government income
from land sales and migrant construction workers’ jobs, said Hu,
former chairman of Greater China for Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Wen’s 7.5 percent national growth target may prove to have
little resemblance to the final result, as regional governments
are aiming higher. The southwestern province of Guizhou has a
goal of 14 percent; central Shaanxi province, 13 percent; and
Chongqing, China’s wartime capital on the Yangtze River, 13.5
percent.  “For backward areas, 7.5 percent is not enough,” said Liu
Gang, Communist Party secretary for the city of Heihe bordering
Russia in Heilongjiang, which envisages growth of 12 percent.  The country’s fiscal position is “very strong,” with
 foreign-exchange reserves  of more than $3 trillion, Mobius said.
“They have a high savings rate, debt levels are low and that
means they are in pretty good shape.”  Hit to Commodities  The news is less sanguine for nations and companies focused
on commodities, with Jen predicting Australia and Brazil in
particular will feel the impact of “the hit to commodity
imports, particularly iron ore and building materials.” Shares
of London-based  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-largest
mining company, have dropped 16 percent in London to 3,382.5
pence from a Feb. 2 high this year. Rio de Janeiro-based Vale SA,
Brazil’s biggest exporter, has slumped 15 percent to $22.85 from
a Feb. 3 high.  Mexico’s peso slipped on March 22 to the weakest level
against the U.S. dollar in two weeks after manufacturing slowed
in China.  Stocks of developing countries extended their longest
losing streak this year on the news. The  MSCI Emerging Markets
Index (MXEF)  fell 0.7 percent on March 22 to 1,040.58 in New York,
slipping for a sixth day. Energy and materials companies
retreated the most, with Russia’s OAO Gazprom, the world’s
largest natural-gas exporter, sliding 2.2 percent.  The MSCI index today was down 0.4 percent at 5:11 p.m. in
Tokyo.  “China is definitely slowing down,” said  Andy Mantel ,
founder and chief executive officer of Pacific Sun Advisors, an
asset manager in Hong Kong. “Over the course of a few months,
the numbers will be quite weak.” Mantel said he’s optimistic
China nevertheless will avoid a hard landing. “People’s
expectations are too high, and you have to allow China to grow
as it can.”  --Kevin Hamlin. With assistance from Li Yanping, Stephen Engle
and Michael Forsythe in Beijing. Editors: Scott Lanman, Melinda Grenier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  