-- Court Can’t Let Broccoli Get in Way of Health Care Law
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-25T23:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/court-can-t-let-broccoli-get-in-way-of-health-care-law-view.html
Once upon a time, the health-care
debate was political. It was  messy  and  mean  and occasionally
 absurd , but it made progress, and the result was an imperfect
but historic  law  justifiably seen as President Barack Obama’s
legacy.  Today, the legal debate over health care reaches the
Supreme Court. But not only is the president’s legacy on trial,
so is the court’s. Almost as important as what the court says --
and  we think  the case against the law is pretty thin -- will be
how it says it: The purpose of the judicial branch is to provide
guidance and clarity to the other two branches. A 5-to-4
decision will not do that.  The main issue before the court, and the topic of two of
the unprecedented six hours of  oral argument  the court will hear
over the next three days, is the individual mandate. This is the
requirement that Americans either have health insurance or pay a
penalty. Challengers to the law, which include 26 states and the
small-business lobby, argue that Congress lacks the authority to
impose such a mandate. It is, as the aggrieved states say 19
times in  their brief , unprecedented.  Not Unprecedented  Unprecedented is a good word to throw around if you want to
get people’s attention, but it  does not  a legal argument make.
Let’s take a step back: One of the main purposes of the
(uppercase) Law is to explain how almost every case is, for lack
of a better term, precedented. Every  Supreme Court  opinion for
at least the last 200 years has been an exercise in comparative
analysis, explaining how the  controversy  it is now considering
is a lot like one it has seen before. Of course, every case
presents new issues -- if it didn’t, the court wouldn’t agree to
hear it -- but they are never as novel or (that word again)
unprecedented as the litigants would have the court believe.  But enough about the Law; what about this law? How does the
individual mandate compare to previous exercises of
congressional power?  The power is derived from the  Commerce Clause  of the
Constitution, which gives Congress the authority to “regulate
commerce … among the several states.” The question is what
qualifies as interstate commerce. For most of the second half of
the 20th century, the answer has been clear -- and forgive us if
we lapse into legal jargon: pretty much anything.  Is a farmer growing wheat for his own consumption engaging
in interstate commerce?  Yes . A small restaurant in  Alabama 
refusing to seat blacks?  Yes . A sick Californian growing her own
medicinal marijuana, as allowed by state law?  Yes . And so on.  Fine, say opponents of the law. We can’t help it if the
court has interpreted the Commerce Clause too broadly. They
point to a few more recent cases, involving laws about  guns near
schools  and  violence against women , in which the court has said
Congress overstepped its bounds. They also argue, not without
reason, that Congress’s power under the Commerce Clause cannot
be completely without limits.  Here is where they invoke broccoli. If Congress can force
me to buy health insurance, they ask -- and this analogy has
 actually appeared  in a federal judicial opinion -- can’t it also
force me to eat broccoli?  In a word (or two): Yes and no. Congress could certainly
pass a law requiring the consumption of broccoli. And the courts
would certainly  invalidate it . Without disputing the point that
the Constitution grants the U.S. government only limited powers,
it is easy to conclude that Congress is well within its
authority to enact the individual mandate.  Not Broccoli  Every American, by virtue of his or her existence, is a
consumer of health care. The same, sadly, cannot be said for
broccoli. Health care accounts for  about 18 percent  of the
economy, and an even  larger share  of the federal budget.
Hospitals and insurance companies and their affiliates operate
and treat patients on a national scale and across state lines.
Precise figures are unavailable, but broccoli’s role in the  U.S.
economy  is considerably smaller.  The power to regulate interstate commerce also comes with
the power (or so the Supreme Court said  188 years ago ) to choose
“the rule by which commerce is to be governed.” The individual
mandate is that rule.  This is not, when all is said and done, a hard case. Which
raises two final questions: How did it ever reach the Supreme
Court? And why is the court spending so much time on it?  To a certain extent the lower courts, with their divergent
opinions on the case, forced the Supreme Court’s hand. As for
why the court has decided to spend three days on the case, no
one can say for sure. One  charitable answer  is that the court
realizes this issue is divisive and wants to ensure that all
sides feel they have been heard. (Arguing in favor of this
theory is the fact that the court has asked for briefs on
questions neither the administration nor the states dispute.)  The less charitable answer brings us back to where we
started. The politics of health care date back not just three
years or two decades but at least  a century , and the  politics of
the courts  are increasingly stark. Politics certainly played a
role in opposition to the law, which passed along purely
partisan lines. And the ink was barely dry on the president’s
signature when the first suit against the law was filed on March
23, 2010.  The law is supposed to be above politics, of course --
though we could as easily say that our political debates needn’t
be confined by the law. In the debate over health care in the
U.S. -- how to extend it to more people, how best to pay for it,
how to make it more fair and efficient -- most of the points of
contention are not constitutional.  That larger discussion will outlast the one the Supreme
Court is holding this week. The best contribution the court can
make is a strong, lucid decision in favor of the law. Then the
health-care debate can become, once again, political.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 