-- Danaher, Cooper Said to Seek Sale of Apex Tool Venture
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-03-26T17:44:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/danaher-cooper-said-to-seek-sale-of-alex-tool-venture.html
Danaher Corp. (DHR)  and  Cooper Industries (CBE) 
Plc are seeking buyers for a joint venture that makes hand tools
for Sears Holdings Corp.’s Craftsman brand, said two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The venture, Apex Tool Group, may fetch $1.5 billion or
more and attract interest from private-equity firms, said one of
the people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
talks are private.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is advising on the
potential sale, the people said.  The owners of Apex join  United Technologies  Corp. and
DuPont Co. in seeking private-equity bids for major divisions
this year. U.S. leveraged-buyout investors are looking to put to
work the $425 billion of unspent capital commitments they had at
the end of 2011, according to Pitchbook Data Inc.  The tool unit no longer fits either Danaher’s or Cooper’s
growth strategy, and investors have expected Apex to be sold,
said Jeffrey Sprague, an analyst with Vertical Research
Partners. He has hold ratings on Danaher and Cooper.  “They struck the joint venture fully intending to someday
part ways with it and sell,” Sprague said.  Apex, based in Sparks,  Maryland , describes itself as one of
the world’s largest makers of hand and power tools. It has
dozens of its own brands, including GearWrench ratchets, and
makes some of the tools sold by Sears. Apex had net income of
$134 million on sales of $1.46 billion last year, according to a
Cooper regulatory filing. Apex employs 7,600 people, according
to its  website .  Formation in 2010  Danaher and Cooper formed Apex in 2010 by combining their
tool businesses and naming Steve Breitzka, previously the head
of the Danaher tool unit, chief executive officer. Each has a 50
percent stake.  Cooper rose 0.8 percent to $63.43 in  New York  at 1:36 p.m.
Danaher rose 1.1 percent to $54.95. Both stocks had gained 16
percent this year before today.  A Cooper spokesman, Kyle McClure, declined to comment
beyond a statement his chief financial officer made at a
February meeting. “We’re considering all options and
opportunities that might present themselves with respect to that
business,” CFO David Barta told investors then. Cooper is
incorporated in Dublin and has administrative headquarters in
Houston.  Valuation  Matt McGrew, a spokesman for  Washington , D.C.-based
Danaher, didn’t respond to a phone call or e-mail.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to comment.  Snap-On Inc. (SNA) , the Kenosha, Wisconsin-based maker of tools
and diagnostic equipment for the auto repair industry, had a
stock market value last week of about 13 times 2011  net income .
Applying that multiple to Apex would value the venture at about
$1.7 billion.  United Technologies is seeking buyers for three units that
make pumps and compressors, in a sale that people with knowledge
of the effort said in February may be worth $2 billion or more.
DuPont is seeking buyers for an auto-paint unit that may be
worth $4 billion, people with knowledge of that sale process
said in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  