-- Hedge Funds Make Wrong-Way Bets for a Fourth Week: Commodities
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-03-26T21:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/hedge-funds-make-wrong-way-bets-for-a-fourth-week-commodities.html
Hedge funds  wagered the wrong way
on commodity prices for a fourth consecutive week, boosting
bullish holdings just before reports showing a contraction in
manufacturing from China to Europe drove prices lower.  Money managers lifted net-long positions in 18 U.S. futures
and options by 2.9 percent to 1.17 million  contracts  in the week
ended March 20, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
dropped 1 percent last week, led by declines in lead and corn.
 Orange juice  tumbled 11 percent, the most since August.  The S&P GSCI fell to a three-week low on March 22 after
reports showed factory output in Germany and  France  shrank in
March and a measure of China’s manufacturing was the weakest
since November. U.S. government data the next day showed new
home purchases unexpectedly fell last month, increasing investor
concerns about the durability of the world’s largest economy.  “There are headwinds to growth right now, and therefore
there are headwinds to commodities,” said Walter ‘Bucky’ Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion of assets at BB&T Wealth
Management in Birmingham,  Alabama .  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares fell 1.1 percent
last week, with about $607 million erased from the value of
global equities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
dollar retreated 0.6 percent against a basket of six major
trading partners, and Treasuries returned 0.4 percent, a Bank of
America Corp. index shows.  Corn, Coffee  Eighteen of the 24 raw materials tracked by S&P fell last
week. Corn tumbled 3.9 percent, the most since mid-January, as
improving U.S. weather boosted the outlook for crops. Arabica
coffee declined to the lowest since October 2010 on March 22 on
signs of expanding output from  Brazil , the world’s top grower.
The GSCI rose 0.3 percent to close at 705.29 in  New York .  A preliminary reading in a Chinese purchasing managers’
index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics dropped to
48.1 this month. Readings below 50 signal contraction. A gauge
of euro-region manufacturing fell to 47.7 in March from 49 in
February, Markit said March 22.  China’s steel output is slowing as the economy focuses more
on consumers than large infrastructure projects, Ian Ashby,
president of  iron ore  at BHP Billiton Ltd., the biggest mining
company, said March 20. Rio Tinto Group, the second-biggest
iron-ore exporter, also sees a slowdown in China,  David Joyce ,
the London-based company’s managing director of expansion
projects, told a conference in Perth,  Australia  the same day.  ‘Petrified’ Speculators  “The general concern of a slowdown in China has petrified
market speculators,” said Chad Morganlander, a  Florham Park ,
New Jersey-based money manager at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which
oversees more than $115 billion in assets. “A deceleration in
demand from major economies like China will continue to be a
thematic concern for investors.”  Forecasting moves in commodity markets has become more
difficult as price swings have increased, said  Peter Sorrentino ,
a  fund manager  who helps oversee $14.5 billion at Huntington
Asset Advisors in Cincinnati. The 15-day historical volatility
on the S&P GSCI was near the highest in two months last week,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Demand for some raw materials may rebound as  China ’s
government adds to stimulus measures to shore up growth, Morgan
Stanley analysts led by New York-based Hussein Allidina said in
a March 18 report.  China Lending  The People’s Bank of China lowered the requirement for
reserves at large banks in February for the second time since
November to spur lending. The nation decided last week to boost
rural credit by cutting reserve ratios for more branches of
Agricultural Bank of China Ltd., the nation’s third-biggest
lender by market value.  While China’s growth will slow to 8.3 percent in 2012 from
9.2 percent last year, the expansion will rebound to 8.6 percent
in 2013, according to the median of 19 economist estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Premier  Wen Jiabao  cut the country’s
annual growth target to 7.5 percent earlier this month, the
lowest since 2004. China is the world’s biggest energy user and
consumes about 40 percent of its copper.  Sales of previously owned U.S. houses held in February near
an almost two-year high, a report from the National Association
of Realtors showed March 21. Two days later, the government
reported that new home sales dropped in February for a second
straight month, a sign that the housing recovery may be uneven.  Investment Flows  Investors pulled $127 million out of commodity funds in the
week ended March 21, according to Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
EPFR Global, which tracks investment flows.  Money managers boosted bets on a copper rally by 20 percent
to the highest since August even as prices last week fell by the
most in five weeks, the CFTC data show. Inventories monitored by
the Shanghai Futures Exchange have more than doubled this year,
signaling slowing Chinese demand. Lead dropped 5.4 percent to
$1,995 a metric ton in  London  last week, the biggest decline
since December. Corn tumbled 3.9 percent to $6.465 a bushel in
 Chicago , the most since mid-January.  TD Securities Inc. cut its 2012 price forecasts for most
precious and industrial metals last week, citing “diminishing
China growth expectations,”  Bart Melek , the Toronto-based head
of commodity strategy, said in a report March 23.  “With China deteriorating,  Europe  in recession and the
U.S. recovery looking uncertain, the picture for commodities is
bearish,” said Steve Mathews, the chief investment officer of
Flintlock Capital Asset Management LLC in New York, which has
$116 million in assets under management. “I don’t see a lot of
impetus right now for commodities to go higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  