-- Hedge Funds Capitulating Buy Most Stocks Since 2010
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-03-26T20:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/hedge-funds-capitulating-buy-most-stocks-since-2010.html
Hedge funds trailing the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 (SPX)  Index for the last five months are giving up on
bearish bets and buying stocks at the fastest rate in two years.  A gauge of hedge-fund bullishness measuring the proportion
of bets that shares will rise climbed to 48.6 last week from 42
at the end of November 2011, the biggest increase since April
2010, according to data compiled by the International Strategy &
Investment Group. The Bloomberg aggregate hedge fund index
 gained 1.4 percent  last month, lagging behind the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index by 2.65 percentage points.  Money managers struggling to catch up with the gains have
contributed to the rally that pushed the  S&P 500  up  29 percent
since October  as economic reports beat estimates. Market bulls
say they are a continuing source of cash that can move stocks
higher. Bears say capitulating hedge funds are further evidence
that equities have risen too far, too fast as economic growth
remains sluggish, warning that the pool of potential buyers is
being depleted.  “It’s encouraged me to gradually increase my exposure to
stocks,”  Barton Biggs , founder of hedge fund Traxis Partners LP
in New York, said in a March 23 phone interview, referring to an
improving economic outlook. “The shift has occurred gradually
in the six or so months since the beginning of October. I’d be
inclined to raise my net long further because the potential to
the upside would be greater” should the S&P 500 fall 5 percent
to 7 percent, he said.  Biggest Shorts  Short bets reached a five-year peak in October 2008 just
before the S&P 500 started a  rally  that has lifted it 109
percent over three years, according to data compiled by ISI and
Bloomberg. Hedge funds trailed the index for six of the first
seven months of that advance. Overall short interest reached
4.86 percent of outstanding U.S. shares in July 2008, according
to data compiled by NYSE Euronext.  Companies with the most shares  borrowed  and sold by short
sellers have led this quarter’s rally as gains forced bearish
traders to repurchase them.  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  has returned
126 percent for the  biggest gain  in the S&P 500 as short
interest fell to 8.8 percent of outstanding shares last week,
the lowest since August 2010, according to New York-based Data
Explorers.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  have each
increased more than 76 percent and seen a drop in pessimistic
bets this year.  ‘Maximum’ Bullish  ISI’s index, based on a survey of 36 mostly U.S. hedge
funds with about $89 billion under management, tracks net
exposure on a zero through 100 scale. Readings of zero show
“maximum” short selling, while 100 means “maximum” bullish
bets. At 50, hedge funds are deploying a “normal” ratio of
long to short investments, according to ISI.  The S&P 500  slipped  0.5 percent last week to 1,397.11, the
first decline since the five days ended Feb. 10, after
manufacturing contracted more than forecast and  China  raised
fuel prices. The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities is on track
for the best first-quarter gain since 1998, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, with a rally of 13 percent. The index
advanced 1.4 percent to 1,416.51 today.  Investors placed $70.6 billion with hedge fund managers
last year, pushing industry assets to $2.01 trillion, according
to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research. The total has risen
another 5 percent in 2012 through February. Hedge funds are
largely unregulated investment vehicles that aim to make money
whether markets rise or fall. The fund managers, who may buy or
sell any asset, charge annual management fees, traditionally 1.5
percent to 2 percent, and receive a portion of investment gains
equal to 20 percent.  ‘Missed It’  “These people have missed it again,”  Philip Orlando ,
chief equity strategist at Federated Investors Inc., which
oversees about $370 billion, said in an interview at Bloomberg
headquarters in  New York  on March 20. “They’ve been unduly
bearish in their outlook. That’s certainly come back to hurt
them.”  While equities gained as the world’s largest economy began
expanding in the second half of 2009, helped by President Barack Obama’s stimulus measures and the  Federal Reserve ’s easy money
policies, it’s been the smallest post-recession recovery rate
since at least the 1940s, according to Bloomberg data.  Bruce McCain, at KeyCorp in  Cleveland , says that even
though a slower-growing economy is better than a recession, the
29 percent gain in the S&P 500 since October isn’t justified and
stocks will probably drop before they climb.  ‘Too Much Enthusiasm’  “There should be a pullback, there’s been just too much
enthusiasm,” McCain, who helps oversee more than $20 billion as
chief investment strategist at the private-banking unit of
KeyCorp in Cleveland, said in a March 22 phone interview. “One
of the last parts of the rally is when people throw in the towel
and buy into it, and there is that risk for the hedge funds
right now.”  For Paulson & Co., the hedge fund founded by billionaire
 John Paulson , taking a more bullish stance on the U.S. economic
recovery last year meant record losses. One of his largest funds
declined 51 percent in 2011, prompting the manager to reduce
risk just as markets stabilized. Since then, Robert Lacoursiere,
the partner who oversaw the $23 billion hedge fund’s team of
banking analysts, quit to start his own fund.  Trading volume  has plunged this year, with about 768.44
million shares a day changing hands on the New York Stock
Exchange in the 50 days through March 5, the least since 1999,
Bloomberg data show. While bears say that’s an indication
investors lack confidence in the rally, bulls say it means more
money is available to be lured back to equities.  ‘On the Sidelines’  “It’s been pretty painful to sit on the sidelines,”
 Walter Todd , who oversees about $950 million as chief investment
officer at  Greenwood Capital  in Greenwood,  South Carolina , said
in a March 20 phone interview. “It’s one of the reasons we’ve
gone as high as we have without correction. Any little pullback
in the market has been bought. You’ll continue to see that with
the hedge funds and others, there’s a lot of money that’s not in
the market right now.”  Investors may be convinced to increase stock purchases
after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  raised his assessment of the
economy this month and signaled he would keep benchmark rates
near the record zero percent through late 2014. The easing has
damped demand for the perceived safety of  U.S. Treasuries, (USGG10YR)  which
lost 1.4 percent so far this quarter through last week, compared
with the 11 percent rally in the S&P 500. Equities haven’t
beaten bonds by that much since the last three months of 2010.  U.S. Growth  Economists estimate the U.S. expanded 2 percent in the
first quarter, five times the rate of a year ago, according to
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “The search for returns versus low yields on bonds is
certainly helping drive the rally, and there is certainly a fear
of having missed the rally that’s feeding on it, especially
among hedge funds,” said Dennis Leibowitz, managing general
partner at Act II Partners LP, a New York-based hedge fund that
oversees about $400 million. “We have moved exposure up
steadily since fall as a result of the settlement of European-
related high anxiety and volatility, and improving U.S. economic
numbers.”  The five-month stretch of trailing the S&P 500 is the
second-longest in data going back to 2005. The longest was when
hedge funds lost to the index for six months from September 2010
and February 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
equity index rallied 26 percent over that period, compared with
an 11 percent advance for hedge funds.  Sears Rally  Sears, the department-store chain based in  Hoffman Estates ,
 Illinois ,  missed  analysts’ average earnings estimates for seven
straight quarters and said it plans to close 62 stores in the
first half of this year to cut costs. The shares are up 126
percent in 2012 after losing 56 percent last year.  Netflix shares gained almost  seven times  as much as the S&P
500 in 2012 even after consumers grew angry about a 60 percent
increase in prices for the online and mail-order video-rental
service and canceled subscriptions last year. The  stock  tumbled
79 percent from a high of $298.73 on July 13 to November last
year.  Short selling  in the stock decreased to 8.1 percent of
outstanding shares last week from 20 percent on Feb. 1, 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg and  Data Explorers .  Bearish bets on  Bank of America , the second-biggest U.S.
lender by assets, fell to 1.2 percent from a two-year high in
February. The stock has climbed 79 percent this year and topped
$10 for the first time since August, pushed higher after the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based company passed Federal Reserve
stress tests.  “Hedge funds are at least part of the underlying strength
in the recent move, and it has to do with not only buying
stocks, but first and foremost covering,”  Michael Holland ,
chairman and founder of New York-based Holland & Co., which
oversees more than $4 billion, said in a March 22 phone
interview. “It’s been a brutal time to be on the short side.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  