-- Medtronic’s Nerve-Searing Therapy Treats Hypertension for Years
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-25T15:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/medtronic-s-nerve-searing-therapy-treats-hypertension-for-years.html
A  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  device used to
control hard-to-treat high blood pressure by burning overactive
nerves with a burst of radio-frequency energy helped reduce the
condition in 24 patients over three years in a study.  The device, dubbed Symplicity, is threaded using a catheter
from an artery in the groin to nerves that lead to the kidneys.
They were then seared to disable them in 153 patients with drug-
resistant hypertension, the form seen in a third of those with
the disease, or about 120 million people worldwide.  After six months, 71 percent improved in the study, funded
by Minneapolis-based Medtronic and reported at the  American
College of Cardiology  meeting in  Chicago . Two dozen patients who
were followed for three years all recorded lower  blood pressure 
after the procedure, which is approved for sales abroad. Studies
needed to obtain U.S. clearance are under way.  “As the duration of follow-up in these Symplicity clinical
trials grows, so too does our confidence in the enduring safety
and effectiveness,” said George Bakris, director of the
hypertension center at the  University of Chicago  and president
of the American Society of Hypertension, in a statement.  People with untreated high blood pressure, or hypertension,
are at greater risk for heart attack, stroke, kidney disease and
death, according to Medtronic. Overactivity in the sympathetic
nerve system near the kidneys seems to help initiate and sustain
hypertension and may affect salt and water retention, according
to an October, 2009, report in the  journal Hypertension.   ‘Longest Term Data’  The latest research is “the longest term data to date
involving renal denervation,” said Bakris, who is running one
of Medtronic’s studies on the device.  Patients treated with the Medtronic system saw their
systolic blood pressure, the top number measured when the heart
contracts, plunge by 33 millimeters of mercury after three
years. Their diastolic pressure, when the heart fills with
blood, fell by 19 mmHg, the data shows.  Previous studies show treatment with medications reduce
diastolic pressure by 5 mmHg decline, cut heart disease risk by
15 percent and strokes by 42 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  