-- Tepco Faces Post-Fukushima Future Dictated by Bureaucrats
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-03-26T02:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/tepco-confronts-post-fukushima-future-dictated-by-bureaucrats.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) , facing a
$20-billion-and-counting compensation bill for the Fukushima
disaster, has a week to produce a business plan that includes a
request for government aid and will lead to nationalization of
what was once the world’s biggest private power producer.  Since the reactor meltdowns at  Tokyo Electric ’s Fukushima
plant last year, Chairman  Tsunehisa Katsumata  has watched $37.5
billion in market value evaporate. He sits atop a business that
once proudly powered Japan’s postwar recovery, only to see it
now surviving on government handouts and its last operating
reactor goes offline today.  Nationalizing the utility, known as Tepco, may portend a
breakup of Japan’s 10 regional power monopolies that ring up
combined sales of 15.7 trillion yen ($190 billion) a year to
produce, transmit and distribute electricity, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Breaking off Tepco’s transmission
business from power generation would end its monopoly in  Tokyo 
and may provide a model for the rest of the country, said Penn Bowers, who tracks utilities at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  Tepco’s Katsumata, who turns 72 this week and may step
down, has been publicly snubbed by Trade and Industry Minister
 Yukio Edano . The 47-year-old former patent lawyer turned
politician controls the funds Tepco needs to stay solvent and
has stated the government wants a stake and a “sufficient” say
in running the utility in exchange for a cash injection of
almost 1 trillion yen.  Money Rules  “The government has the dominant bargaining position
because Tepco needs money,” Tomohiro Jikihara, a Tokyo-based
electricity and gas utility analyst at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
said in a phone interview.  Bailout funds for Tepco will be funneled through the
government’s Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation Fund. The
fund was set up after the Fukushima disaster with a mandate to
manage compensation payments for the 160,000 people displaced by
radiation fallout and others affected. It’s also charged with
releasing funds to ensure stable power supplies.  The fund already has moved into Tepco’s headquarters in
Uchisaiwaicho in central Tokyo and taken an office on the
seventh floor. It has seven working groups in the building each
day poring over Tepco’s operations, checking the books, finance
management, cost cutting and monitoring compensation payments,
according to two people familiar with the operations. Part of
its task is to draw up the road map to rebuild Tepco.  Attractive Tepco?  “You want to create something that people in the credit
and equity markets are willing to fund in the long term,”
CLSA’s Bowers said in a telephone interview. “The government is
more interested in making Tepco profitable than anyone else.”  The utility has “basically” accepted a plan under which
the government acquires about half of  voting rights  and raises
it to more than two-thirds if Tepco fails to make progress in
restructuring, the Yomiuri newspaper reported March 14, without
saying where it got the information.  Under such an arrangement, Tepco’s existing shareholders
will be swamped by the government stake and their holdings could
be diluted by as much as sevenfold, Hiroyuki Sakaida, a Tokyo-
based analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a March 15
report.  Tepco shares fell 1.4 percent to 212 yen as of 11:02 a.m.
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The stock has plunged 90 percent
since the day before the March 11 quake and tsunami caused the
disaster.  Shareholder Dilution  “The new issue price would need to be low enough to avoid
erosion of the public funds used for a capital injection,”
Sakaida said. The market consensus expecting a dilution rate of
as much as four times is “optimistic,” Sakaida wrote.  In a report on March 22, the Yomiuri said Tepco’s business
recovery plan includes hiring most directors, including the
chairman, from outside the utility, as well as renovating or
selling aging oil and gas power plants. It will also establish
in-house corporations to export power-generating technology. The
paper didn’t say who provided the information.  Tepco and the nuclear damage fund aim to have the business
rehabilitation plan approved by March 31, the end of  Japan ’s
fiscal year, as they are concerned a delay will cause further
downgrades in Tepco’s long-term credit rating from B+, two
people familiar with the negotiations said.  Two issues that could cause delay are thrashing out what
voting rights the government gets and finding a replacement for
Katsumata, because candidates approached so far have all
refused, the people said.  Rating Risk  On March 22, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services reiterated
it is keeping Tepco on the creditwatch it announced on Feb. 20
with the same revised implications to negative from developing.  “The change in the implications to negative from
developing reflects our opinion that the potential to upgrade
Tepco has diminished because we expect the company to post huge
operating and net losses in fiscal 2012,” Hiroki Shibata, a
Tokyo-based credit analyst for S&P covering power producers,
said in the latest report.  “We could lower the ratings on Tepco if government
approval of a restructuring plan is significantly delayed beyond
the due date of March 31,” the rating company said in the Feb.
20 report. S&P plans to review the rating after the government
approves the business plan, it said.  S&P has downgraded Tepco’s long-term  credit  rating by 10
notches from AA- to B+ since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
crippled the Fukushima plant.  On a Tightrope  Tepco will revise its estimates for compensation payments
based on updated guidelines from the Ministry of Education,
Culture, Sports, Science and Technology. The utility  raised  the
estimate for compensation payments to 1.7 trillion yen from 1
trillion yen in December.  It may request as much as 900 billion yen in additional
funds for compensation based on the updated guidelines, the
Asahi newspaper reported March 21.  Residents who can’t return home for more than five years
because of high radiation levels may receive as much as 6
million yen each under the new guidelines, the Nikkei newspaper
 reported . Compensation for about 20,000 people who lived in the
highly contaminated zone would total about 120 billion yen, the
Nikkei said.  While Tepco will get  government aid  to compensate victims
of radiation fallout, it’s still threatened by insolvency from
having to shoulder the cost of dismantling and decommissioning
the Dai-Ichi reactors, said Jikihara at JP Morgan.  “Tepco is walking a tightrope,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  