-- Merkel’s Party Wins Saarland State in Show of Crisis Backing
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-03-26T08:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/merkel-s-cdu-wins-saarland-elections-zdf-exit-poll-shows.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
party won a regional ballot in the western state of Saarland,
the first electoral test of her crisis-fighting policy since she
persuaded European leaders into a pact to limit budget deficits.  Merkel’s Christian Democrats are set to return to power in
Saarland, a former coal-and-steel state that borders Luxembourg
and  France , at the head of a so-called grand coalition with the
main opposition Social Democrats after yesterday’s election. Her
Free Democratic Party ally crashed out of the state assembly
after taking its worst share of the vote in more than 50 years.  Saarland is the first of three state ballots in eight weeks
that offer a snapshot of Merkel’s crisis handling and chances of
winning a third term in federal elections due in 2013. As she
signals the worst of the crisis may be over, the result marks an
end to the run of defeats suffered by her CDU since May 2010
that party officials blamed on voter anger at aiding Greece.  “However small Saarland is on the electoral map, this
result will be booked by Merkel as a confirmation of her
policies,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Groep in
Brussels. Her party now enjoys a “tailwind” for the two bigger
state votes due in May, and Merkel will back a Saarland grand
coalition to send a signal of her intentions “should such a
constellation repeat itself in the federal vote” next year.  Merkel is due to hold a press conference on the election
result at 1 p.m. in Berlin.  Preliminary Results  The CDU took 35.2 percent to remain the biggest force in
Saarland, while the  Social Democrats  came second with 30.6
percent, preliminary results showed. The anti-capitalist Left
Party led by Oskar Lafontaine, the state’s former prime
minister, took 16.1 percent.  Saarland, which represented 1.2 percent of German gross
domestic product in 2010, the  smallest proportion  of any state
except the city of Bremen, held elections more than two years
early after Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, the CDU state premier,
dumped the Free Democratic Party in January out of a government
that also comprised the Greens. The FDP, Merkel’s national
coalition partner, got 1.2 percent, well below the 5 percent
threshold needed to return Liberal seats in Saarbruecken.  The Greens took 5 percent while the Pirate Party, which
campaigns for open  internet access , had 7.4 percent, allowing it
to enter a second regional parliament after winning seats last
year in Berlin’s state assembly. While the Social Democrats and
Left won enough seats to form a coalition, Heiko Maas, the SPD
state leader, ruled out such an alliance in favor of a coalition
with Kramp-Karrenbauer.  ‘Clear Mandate’  “The CDU has been given a clear mandate to form the
government” in Saarland,  Peter Altmaier , the majority whip for
Merkel’s party in Berlin, said on ZDF television. The result
“is a vote of confidence in Angela Merkel’s policies” and
“will give new impetus to the federal government.”  Outside of the Saarland, the Social Democrats were able to
claim a success after their candidate, Peter Feldmann, was voted
in as mayor of  Frankfurt  in elections also held yesterday.
Feldmann took 57 percent to 42 percent for Christian Democrat
Boris Rhein in the  direct vote , winning control of Germany’s
financial capital after 17 years of Christian Democratic rule.  Saarland sets the stage for two more state elections this
year that offer the latest indication of voter sentiment in
 Europe ’s largest economy. Next up is Schleswig-Holstein on May
6, then North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany’s most populous state,
which votes on May 13 after the government collapsed this month.  Federal Bellwether  With almost a quarter of Germany’s 82 million people, North
Rhine-Westphalia is a bellwether for federal political fortunes.
The SPD took the state from Merkel’s party in May 2010 in a
result Merkel blamed on agreeing days earlier to a first bailout
for  Greece . The vote deprived her of a majority in the national
upper house, where states are represented, and presaged defeats
or a loss of support for her coalition parties in all seven
state votes in 2011.  Merkel’s approval ratings have since risen this year to the
highest level since her re-election in 2009 as she pushed for
fiscal austerity across the euro area while swinging Germany
behind a second bailout for Greece to keep the currency union
from splintering. Leaders of 25 of the 27 European Union
countries signed the German-inspired fiscal pact on March 2.  As Merkel won back support, her Free Democratic coalition
ally has slumped from a record 14.6 percent in the last national
election in 2009 to as low as 2 percent in Germany-wide polls.  FDP Collapse  The Free Democrats led nationally by Philipp Roesler, the
economy minister and vice chancellor, can now add Saarland to
the list of five state assemblies that it crashed out of last
year. Polls suggest that it will fail to win seats in either
Schleswig-Holstein or in North Rhine-Westphalia, known as NRW.  The Free Democratic result in Saarland “is very worrisome
for the party but also for the coalition in Berlin,” Brzeski
said by phone. “If the FDP fails to qualify for parliament in
the state of NRW -- a state in  a different league  to Saarland --
then it’s curtains for its current leadership.”  Saarland, which still produces steel, was  Germany ’s third
most-indebted region on a per capita basis at the end of 2010
after the city-states of Bremen and Berlin, according to the
Federal Statistics Office.  Merkel, who paid several campaign visits to the state, was
rewarded by victory even as Saarland struggles to meet Germany’s
so-called debt brake, which forces states to balance their
budgets. The debt brake is the model for Merkel’s fiscal pact.  “ Chancellor Merkel  really backed me up in this election
and the result is also in part her victory,” Kramp-Karrenbauer
said on ZDF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  