-- EU’s Rehn Expects Debt-Crisis Firewalls to Be Reinforced
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-03-25T10:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/eu-s-rehn-expects-debt-crisis-firewalls-to-be-reinforced-1-.html
European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said the region will
toughen debt-crisis defenses to guard against future risks.  “The key thing now is to conclude the comprehensive crisis
response,” Rehn told reporters today in Saariselkae,  Finland .
Rehn said he trusts that euro-area finance ministers “will take
a convincing decision on the reinforcement of the firewalls”
next week.  Europe  has so far set aside a total of 500 billion euros
($663 billion) for crisis-busting measures in two war chests.
The temporary rescue fund, the European Financial Stability
Facility, has disbursed 192 billion euros in three bailouts.
Under the current rules, the unused funds would be passed on to
the permanent fund, the European Stability Mechanism.  Policy makers are discussing how to add to the funds. Under
the least-ambitious option, the ESM would be allowed to start
afresh with its entire half-trillion euro capacity available for
future use, a euro-area official said on March 16. The EFSF
would continue to administer the programs in progress while its
unused capacity would no longer be available. That would bring
the total crisis backstop to 692 billion euros.  ‘Bit Better’  “Luckily the economic situation is a little bit better
than just a few months ago,” Finnish Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said at the briefing. He hosted a seminar in
Saariselkae, 1,100 kilometers (684 miles) north of Helsinki and
past the Arctic Circle, to brainstorm on Europe’s role in the
global economy and how to get the European Union’s economy back
on track after the debt crisis.  Spain  will reach the target of reducing its  budget deficit 
to 3 percent of gross domestic product next year, Inigo Mendez
de Vigo, Spain’s minister for European affairs, told reporters.
“We’re going to do it,” he said. “We’re on the way and we’re
serious. We’re going to give our word.”  Rehn said he’s “fully confident” Spain will meet the
fiscal target in 2013.  The  European Central Bank  stepped in to quell the acute
crisis by lending banks about 1 trillion euros for three years
and by keeping its benchmark  interest rate  at a record-low of 1
percent. It has also bought bonds of countries whose yields rose
last year.  The ECB “has played a key role,” Rehn said. The lending
helped “prevent a credit crunch” and improved financing
conditions for European businesses and households, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  