-- Leung Victory in Hong Kong Poll Turns Focus to Democracy
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g ,   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g   a n d   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-03-26T03:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/leung-projected-to-defeat-tang-in-hong-kong-chief-executive-race.html
Leung Chun-ying, a former property
surveyor, pledged to address  Hong Kong ’s  wealth gap  and demands
for universal suffrage as the city’s next chief executive after
winning a poll in which only one in 5,900 people could vote.  A 1,193-member panel of Hong Kong billionaires, academics
and professionals chose Leung over two other candidates to lead
the city for the next five years. Crowds outside the election
venue protested the lack of democracy in the former British
colony, with one waving the colonial-era flag and others holding
signs opposing China’s ruling Communist Party.  Leung, 57, will help shape the city’s  economy  and
relationship with China through 2017, when Beijing has pledged
to allow Hong Kong to elect its own leaders. He must also
address anger over rising living costs spawned by an influx of
money from mainland  China  and surging property prices that have
made Hong Kong the world’s most expensive place to buy a home.  “Rule of law, human rights, integrity, lack of corruption
and press freedom are all part of our life,” Leung told
reporters after his selection. “This election has helped build
a foundation for universal suffrage in 2017.”  While the city’s 7.1 million people couldn’t vote, public
opinion helped shape yesterday’s selection, with some committee
members saying they had to heed opinion polls that put Leung 17
percentage points ahead of his main rival,  Henry Tang . Tang was
seen as the front-runner and Beijing’s favored candidate until
an admission of an extra-marital affair and a basement built
without proper permits damaged his poll numbers.  Switched to Leung  As the vote neared, Hong Kong media including the  South
China Morning Post  reported that Beijing had switched to backing
Leung. China may want to keep Hong Kong stable as the ruling
Communist Party begins its own leadership transition later this
year, a process that was complicated by the removal of Chongqing
party secretary  Bo Xilai  on March 15.  China’s leaders also want a prosperous Hong Kong because
the city, which has a fully convertible currency, is used as a
way to internationalize the yuan. Companies are issuing more
bonds denominated in yuan in Hong Kong, and cross-border yuan
flows have surged.  “Leung has strong backing from China,” said Vasu Menon, a
vice president of  wealth management  at Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. in  Singapore . “China is quite committed to ensuring that
Hong Kong thrives because it is going to help the mainland get
plugged into the global financial system in a bigger way. Leung
is going to be a conduit for change.”  Positive for Markets  Menon said Leung’s selection should be “modestly
positive” for Hong Kong stocks. The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has  gained 
12.1 percent this year after falling 20 percent in 2011. The
benchmark was little changed at 10:50 a.m.  Hong Kong’s economy is at risk of contracting should
exports fail to improve, Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said in
February. Growth will be between 1 percent and 3 percent in
2012, down from 5 percent last year, according to government
estimates.  Prior to the vote, Leung was dogged by claims that he is a
secret member of the Chinese Communist Party.  Martin Lee , the
co-founder of Hong Kong’s Democratic Party, wrote an article
published in Next Magazine last week saying he believed Leung
has been an underground party member, an allegation that Leung
denied. The Basic Law, Hong Kong’s mini-constitution, bans its
leader from having any party affiliations.  Party Voice  “I think CY is part of the communist party,” said
protester Gary Cheung, 33, who works at a trading company, using
Leung’s initials. “His behavior and attitude is well documented
to be in line with the communists. This is not a guess. He will
be a voice for the party and not for the Hong Kong people.”  An estimated 2,000 people turned out to protest yesterday’s
selection, according Candice Siu, an officer at the Hong Kong
Police public relations branch. Leung, speaking at a press
conference in Cantonese, pledged to maintain “harmonious
stability,” echoing his two predecessors as chief executive in
using phrases that are staples of the Chinese Communist Party.  Leung, a former government adviser who advocates  closer
ties  with mainland China to boost growth, has pledged to build
more public housing, increase land supply and provide residents
with tax-breaks to help them buy homes. He also promised to
speed up public projects like expanding the city railway system
and encourage the use of electric and hybrid cars.  689 Votes  The election committee chose Leung with 689 votes, or 61
percent of ballots cast. Tang garnered 285 votes while
 Democratic Party  lawmaker Albert Ho got 76 votes. Leung succeeds
 Donald Tsang , who has led Hong Kong since 2005.  Leung must restore confidence in the city’s leadership and
build trust between political parties, newspapers including the
Apple Daily and Hong Kong Economic Times said today in
editorials.  “You have a chief executive that doesn’t have the people’s
mandate, and the integrity and credibility are in question,”
lawmaker Emily Lau said today. “I think he’s really got a very,
very tough task ahead.”  While looking to boost the economy, Leung must also
navigate growing friction between Hong Kong residents and
mainland Chinese. A Feb. 1 advertisement in the local Apple
Daily newspaper portrayed mainland Chinese mothers as locusts
for entering Hong Kong to give birth in local hospitals and
taking up city resources.  Hong Kong residents enjoy civil liberties including a free
press and freedom of assembly not available in mainland China
under the “one country, two systems” formula that returned
Hong Kong to China in 1997.  Best for Business  One of Leung’s tasks will be retaining Hong Kong’s spot as
the best place in the world to do business. The city, which
serves as the main gateway to China, placed top in the Bloomberg
Rankings index based on six factors including economic
integration and the costs of setting up business.  Leung, a graduate of the Hong Kong Polytechnic, founded his
own surveying company in 1993. He became Asia chairman and a
director for London-based DTZ Holdings Ltd. in 2006 following a
merger between the two companies. Leung resigned last year to
run in the election.  At age 31, Leung was appointed by Beijing as a member of
the committee to help draft the city’s basic law, which would
become Hong Kong’s de-facto constitution after its handover to
China in 1997. Speaking yesterday, he said that Hong Kong “does
not need major reform.”  Leung must battle a public perception that he is stiff and
uncomfortable in the spotlight.  “ Bill Clinton , he’ll make you think he’s your best friend
inside of 10 minutes,” said Ronnie Chan, chairman of developer
 Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101)  who has known Leung for 30 years and
is one of his most vocal supporters. “For CY, you may not feel
that even after knowing him for 10 years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net ;
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  