-- Euro Gains Versus Yen on Prospect of Combined Rescue Fund
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-03-26T21:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/euro-gains-versus-yen-on-prospect-of-combined-rescue-fund.html
The dollar fell against its higher-
yielding counterparts as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  said accommodative monetary policy is still needed to
reduce U.S. unemployment.  The euro strengthened to an almost one-month high against
the U.S. currency as Germany said it may back plans to increase
the debt-crisis rescue funds before the region’s finance
ministers meet March 30. The Swiss franc fell against the euro
after Swiss Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said he
would “generally like” the franc to weaken toward 1.35 or 1.40
versus the euro. The Australian dollar and South African rand
rallied versus the yen as global stocks and commodities
advanced.  “The concern has been that the Fed may have to retract its
January statement where it said exceptionally accommodative
policy through 2014,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior
currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in  New York .
“Bernanke’s speech seems to have put that to rest. There had
also been nagging doubts about the strength of the firewall for
Europe. Both had crystal-clear implications for euro.”  The dollar fell 0.7 percent to $1.3359 per euro at 5 p.m.
New York time, the least since Feb. 29. It rose 0.6 percent to
82.82 yen, after gaining as much as 0.8 percent. The Japanese
currency fell 1.3 percent to 110.65 per euro.  Swiss Currency  The franc fell 0.1 percent to 1.20604 per euro, the biggest
intraday move in a week.  “It would be fatal if the minimum  exchange rate  was
suddenly removed,” Schneider-Ammann said, according to comments
posted on Swiss television’s website today. He referred to the
Swiss central bank’s franc cap of 1.20 versus the euro. Asked
whether the ceiling should be raised, he said while the central
bank is “independent,” the purchasing power parity “is
higher” than 1.20.  The yen has fallen against all its most-traded counterparts
year-to-date, declining 7.2 percent against the dollar and 9.9
percent versus the 17-nation shared currency. The dollar is the
second-worst performing major currency tracked by Bloomberg this
quarter. It has fallen 3 percent against the euro and 9.1
percent versus the Mexican peso.  Japan ’s currency declined against all its major
counterparts today as investors sold the yen to invest in
higher-yielding counterparts. The so-called carry trade selling
the yen to purchase the  Brazil ’s real, Australia’s dollar and
Mexico’s peso returned 1 percent today.  Aussie Gains  The Australian dollar added 0.6 percent to $1.0534 and 1.2
percent to 87.25 versus the yen. The rand gained 1.3 percent to
7.5815 per dollar, as its largest export gold advanced 1.7
percent.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced 1.4 percent. The
S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials gained 0.3 percent.  The decline in U.S. unemployment may reflect “a reversal
of the unusually large layoffs that occurred during late 2008
and over 2009,” Bernanke said in a speech today in Arlington,
Virginia. “To the extent that this reversal has been completed,
further significant improvements in the  unemployment rate  will
likely require a more-rapid expansion of production and demand
from consumers and businesses, a process that can be supported
by continued accommodative policies.”  “The whole environment should be really quite ideal for
risk and equities, given that the Fed is still very focused on
levels in terms of the unemployment rate,” said  Henrik Gullberg , a currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .  Fed Stance  Foreign-exchange traders, faced with lower volatility and
record-low  interest rates  in the U.S.,  Europe , the U.K. and
Japan, are searching for returns as far afield as Kazakhstan and
Nigeria. The  JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index (JPMVXYG7)  has fallen to 10.04
percent from 12.37 percent in January, reducing money managers’
ability to exploit price moves.  Investec Asset Management Ltd., which trades currencies of
nations from  Colombia  to  Uganda , said demand for assets in so-
called frontier markets increased in the past six months. The
Cambridge Strategy (Asset Management) Ltd. invested in the
Nigerian naira from December to February. Money manager Adrian
Lee & Partners will add positions in six currencies, including
Kazakhstan’s tenge and the Kenyan shilling by the end of the
second quarter.  European Finance  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said that  Germany  may back plans
for the temporary and permanent euro-area rescue funds to run in
parallel. Ministers are due to discuss plans to combine the
temporary European Financial Stability Facility and its
permanent successor from July, the European Stability Mechanism
in Copenhagen this week.  European sentiment was also buoyed after Munich-based Ifo
institute’s German business climate  index  rose more than
expected.  “Looking forward to the European finance ministers
possibly increasing the size of the bailout facility, that adds
to the risk-positive environment and the tendency will be to buy
some of the high-yielding, risk-sensitive currencies,” said
 Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co .
in New York.  The euro climbed 0.4 percent year-to-date, according to
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-
market currencies. The yen has weakened 10.6 percent during the
period, while the dollar fell 2.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  