-- Alonso Secures Surprise Win at Malaysian Formula One Grand Prix
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-03-25T16:06:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/ferrari-s-alonso-wins-rain-hit-malaysian-formula-one-grand-prix.html
Fernando Alonso  of Ferrari won the
rain-interrupted Malaysian Grand Prix to secure his first
victory in 12 races and take the 2012 Formula One world
championship lead after two events.  Alonso held off Sauber’s Sergio Perez by 2.2 seconds at
Sepang International Circuit yesterday in a race that was
suspended for 51 minutes after nine laps when rain soaked the
track. McLaren’s  Lewis Hamilton , who started from pole position,
was third.  Alonso’s 28th career victory was the first for Ferrari
since the Spaniard won the British Grand Prix in July and lifted
the former world champion atop the drivers’ standings with 35
points in a car he has described as “uncompetitive.”  “It was a big surprise, the win,” Alonso, who took the
title in 2005 and 2006, said in a televised news conference.
“We maximized the potential we had in our hands, keeping calm
in some extreme conditions. It’s a tough time for us at the
moment, but this is a Sunday we will remember.”  Perez was challenging Alonso for the lead when he ran over
a curb with six laps remaining, potentially costing him his
first career win. His second-place finish collected more points
than he managed in the entire 2011 season.  He’s the first Mexican driver to secure a podium place in a
Formula One race since  Pedro Rodriguez  finished second in the
Netherlands 41 years ago. It was also Sauber’s best result as an
independent team since  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  quit the
sport at the end of the 2009 season.  “I was catching Fernando towards the end,” Perez said.
“I ran wide in the quick left-hand corner and I touched the
curb and went onto the dirty side. It was completely wet and I
lost the win probably.”  Vettel 11th  Mark Webber  of  Red Bull  finished fourth ahead of Kimi Raikkonen of Lotus and Williams’  Bruno Senna . Force  India ’s Paul
di Resta, Jean-Eric Vergne of Toro Rosso,  Nico Hulkenberg  in the
other Force India car and  Michael Schumacher  of Mercedes rounded
out the top 10.  Defending world champion Sebastian Vettel of Red Bull
finished out of the points in 11th, three spots ahead of
McLaren’s  Jenson Button , who won the season opener in  Australia 
on March 18.  “Pretty much everything that could have gone wrong did go
wrong,” Button, who struggled with the grip on his tires and
also damaged his car in a collision, said in a team statement.
“It’s always going to be tough when you’re down in 14th or 15th
position.”  ‘Like a Lake’  Alonso started in eighth place in the race, which was
halted in the ninth of 56 laps because of the wet conditions.
Button described one of the sections of the track as being
“like a lake” over the team radio.  The race resumed behind the safety car for four laps with
all cars fitted with wet-weather tires. While drivers including
Hamilton and Button then went into the pits to change to
intermediate tires, Perez stayed out on the wet tires to take
the lead.  Hamilton dropped to 10th place following his tire change
and Button slipped to the back of the field after damaging his
front wing in a collision with HRT driver Narain Karthikeyan
that forced him to return to the pits.  Alonso then overtook Perez to hit the front. The Spaniard
increased his advantage to more than seven seconds at the
halfway mark, though Perez cut the margin to 3.9 seconds with 20
laps remaining.  Mistake  Alonso pitted on the 40th lap to allow Perez to temporarily
take the lead before the Mexican came in on the next lap. Perez
closed the gap over the next 10 laps before his mistake gave
Alonso a five-second cushion with which he was able to seal his
third win in  Malaysia .  The win moved Alonso ahead of Jackie Stewart for fifth
place all-time. He trails Schumacher, Alain Prost,  Ayrton Senna 
and Nigel Mansell.  The next event in the 20-race calendar, the Chinese Grand
Prix, is scheduled April 15 in  Shanghai .  “Our aim was damage limitation for these early races of
the championship and now we even find ourselves leading the
classification,” Alonso said in a team statement. “Now we
absolutely have to improve the performance starting right away
with the races in  China  and Bahrain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  