-- German Business Confidence May Hold at Seven-Month High
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-03-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/german-business-confidence-may-hold-at-seven-month-high-in-march.html
German  business confidence  probably
held at a seven-month high in March, suggesting  Europe ’s largest
economy will return to growth even as the sovereign debt crisis
curbs euro-area demand for its exports.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, stayed at February’s reading of
109.6, according to the median forecast of 44 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey . Ifo releases the report at 10 a.m. in
Munich today.  German manufacturing output unexpectedly contracted this
month as governments and households reduced spending across the
euro region, Germany’s largest export market. At the same time,
policy makers have made progress in tackling the debt crisis,
with the  European Central Bank ’s injection of more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the banking system helping
to bolster investor sentiment.  Germany ’s benchmark  DAX share
index  is up 18 percent this year.  “Overall the economy is in good shape,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in London. A decline in
the Ifo index, which has posted four straight monthly gains,
would “just mean Germany’s recovery is taking a breather after
a couple of pretty spectacular months,” he said.  Ifo’s gauge of the  current situation  may have slipped to
117 from 117.5 and an index measuring executives’ expectations
probably advanced to 102.6 from 102.3, the survey of economists
shows.  Fourth-Quarter Contraction  Germany’s economy contracted 0.2 percent in the final
quarter of 2011. While it “may still be moving sideways,”
confidence indicators suggest “a rejuvenation of the economy in
the early part of 2012” as unemployment at a two-decade low
boosts domestic demand, the Bundesbank said last week.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said March 8 that the outlook
for the 17-nation euro area “has improved enormously” and
there are “many signs of returning confidence.”  Euro-area growth will recover to 1.1 percent next year
after a 0.1 percent contraction in 2012, ECB forecasts show. The
German economy will expand 0.8 percent this year, according to
the panel of economic experts who advise the government.  While euro-area services and manufacturing output
contracted more than economists forecast in March, a separate
report showed that consumer confidence improved for a third
straight month.  Debt Crisis  Policy makers have made strides in solving the debt crisis.  Greece reached a debt-swap deal with its private creditors
earlier this month and European leaders approved a second
bailout package for the nation. Euro-region governments have
also signed up to a tighter set of budget rules.  As austerity measures curb demand in Europe, German
companies are compensating with sales in faster-growing markets.  “We are currently seeing demand in the European market
weaken,” Juergen Geissinger, chief executive officer at
Schaeffler AG, the world’s second-largest maker of roller
bearings, said on March 20. “Globally, however, our business is
continuing to show a positive trend.”  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest maker of
 luxury vehicles , said on March 13 that it plans to surpass last
year’s record profit. “We are off to a promising start,” with
car sales in the first two months of the year at an all-time
high, BMW Chief Executive Officer  Norbert Reithofer  said.  Continental AG (CON) , Europe’s second-largest tire maker, is
sticking to its forecast for a 5 percent revenue increase this
year even as signs mount that growth in  China , the world’s
second-largest economy, is slowing.  “Even if the Chinese economy only grows 7 percent, then
the car market has to grow by at least 5 percent,” Chief
Executive Officer Elmar Degenhart said on March 21, adding that
the Asian car market as a whole will grow about 5 percent this
year, offsetting declines anticipated in Europe and  North
America .  Germany and its companies “are still the euro region’s
Champions League players,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist
at ING Group in Brussels. “There will be growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  