-- Gillard Hurdles Multiply After Australian State Poll Wipeout
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-03-26T00:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/gillard-hurdles-multiply-after-australian-state-election-wipeout.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  confronts mounting challenges to her own re-election
after her Labor party suffered a landslide poll defeat in
Queensland, leaving her with allies governing just two of the
nation’s six states.  The opposition Liberal National Party ended 14 years of
Labor rule in the resource-rich state that generates a fifth of
 Australia ’s wealth, winning 78 out of 89 seats in Queensland’s
parliament in the March 24 poll, according to results on the
 electoral commission ’s website.  Campbell Newman, a 48-year-old former army lieutenant who
replaces  Anna Bligh  as premier, is pledging to cut Queensland’s
unemployment rate to 4 percent from the current 5.7 percent and
restore its AAA credit rating, lost in part after Labor spent
A$54 billion ($56 billion) to improve infrastructure. The scale
of Labor’s defeat, its worst at a state election in Queensland,
underscores the difficulties facing Gillard as she seeks to turn
around the party’s flagging popularity before a national ballot
due in 2013.  “There are federal ramifications to this annihilation,”
said  Paul Williams , a political analyst at Griffith University
in Brisbane. “The Labor brand is on the nose at a state and
federal level and Gillard should be very concerned. If voters
believe the party should still be punished, they’ll do it in any
election that comes up.”  Labor leads in seven Queensland electorates, down from the
51 seats it held in the previous state parliament, with more
than 70 percent of votes counted, according to the electoral
commission.  National Barometer  With national elections due within 20 months, the poll
served as a warning at the depth of discontent with Labor in the
state that accounted for more than half the federal seats it
lost in 2010. Should the 15.7 percent swing away from Labor be
replicated, the party would lose all eight of its federal seats
in Queensland, including that of Treasurer and Deputy Prime
Minister  Wayne Swan .  National opposition leader  Tony Abbott  sought to capitalize
on the ruling party’s reversal, saying the “Labor brand has
become toxic.”  The result is a “disaster” for the party and indicates
that “governments which are all about spin, which don’t deliver
for the Australian people” will be ousted, he said in an
interview on  Sky News  yesterday.  Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition leads Gillard’s Labor
party by 12 percentage points, according to the latest Newspoll.
The survey of 1,153 people, conducted March 9-11, had a margin
of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  Newman’s Priority  Gillard needs to spend as much time as possible in
Queensland selling her government’s policies, former Labor state
Premier Peter Beattie told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s
“Insiders” program yesterday. Labor “can lose the next
federal election in Queensland alone,” he said.  Newman has set as a priority restoring Queensland’s top
credit rating, stripped in May 2009 by Moody’s Investors
Service, which cited Bligh’s capital-spending plan for roads,
hospitals and schools, along with slowing economic growth.
Bligh, 51, who announced yesterday she is quitting politics,
helped funded the infrastructure spending by raising A$15
billion in sales of state assets such as coal-train operator  QR
National Ltd. (QRN)   Investors demand 31 basis points more to buy Queensland
Treasury Corp.’s 6 percent bonds due in April 2016 compared with
similar-maturity debt issued by top-rated New South Wales,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Sunshine State’  “We don’t for a moment underestimate the magnitude of the
task ahead,” Newman, the former Brisbane mayor, said in his
victory speech.  Newman may struggle to put spending on hold after
infrastructure, including thousands of kilometers of roads and
rail tracks, was damaged in cyclones and floods that hit the
state last year.  Queensland (AULFQLD%) , known as the “Sunshine State” and almost the
size of  Mexico , was Australia’s agricultural heartland and
dominated by conservative politics until the end of the 1980s.
In that decade, a wave of international tourism, led by  Japan ’s
booming middle class, led to a surge of development in the
southeast capital of  Brisbane  and nearby  Gold Coast , now the
nation’s third- and sixth-largest cities.  The state, the nation’s third most-populous, has endured
the same two-pronged forces that have created what Gillard calls
Australia’s “patchwork” economy.  ‘Patchwork’ Economy  A Chinese-demand-led mining boom has propelled a 50 percent
surge in the nation’s exchange rate against the  U.S. dollar  in
the past three years, hollowing out businesses sensitive to
currency strength. Queensland’s unemployment rate jumped more
than 2 percentage points during Bligh’s five years in power, as
the local dollar’s climb hurt industries including tourism.  Gillard’s minority government, which needs the backing of
independent and Green party lawmakers to pass legislation, is
set to introduce laws on July 1 that will tax  carbon emissions 
and the profits of iron-ore and coal producers including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group. Queensland produces 80
percent of Australia’s coking coal exports.  The government has “real challenges in Queensland” after
the bigger-than-expected defeat, Trade Minister Craig Emerson
told ABC radio today. “We will be addressing those challenges
by explaining the benefits of our policies to the working people
of Queensland.”  ‘Close the Book’  Labor, which traces its origins to a strike by sheep
shearers in rural Queensland in 1891, ruled the state for all
but two of the past 22 years.  “The size of the loss, the loudness and clarity of the
message sent by the people of Queensland is unmistakable,”
Bligh, a former social worker who grew up in a single-parent
home during adolescence, told reporters in Brisbane yesterday,
announcing she was resigning as party leader and from her
electoral seat. “Queensland voted for a new government. It also
voted to close the book on my era in Queensland politics.”  The party will need to select a new leader from a drained
talent pool after at least 10 Labor ministers lost their seats
in the election rout, including former Deputy Premier and
Treasurer  Andrew Fraser .  “Losing the AAA credit rating and relatively high
unemployment, on top of voter apathy toward a government in
power for so long, has all added up to a perfect storm,”
Griffith University’s Williams said. “Labor has suffered a
complete and utter annihilation. All its talent is gone and it
could be out of power for 20 years or more.”  ‘Feeling Lonely’  The defeat will make it harder for Gillard to shape health
and education policies in the states, said  Andrew Hughes , who
hails from Queensland and conducts political-marketing research
at the  Australian National University  in Canberra.  “Since Labor won the 2007 federal election, it’s lost
power in the four most important states, significantly reducing
its influence,” said Hughes. “Gillard may be starting to feel
a bit lonely in Canberra as she doesn’t have many friends left
in the states.”  The magnitude of the loss in Queensland may mean voters
have already vented their anger at Labor and won’t be so harsh
in next year’s federal election, said Norman Abjorensen, a
political analyst at the ANU.  “The election may have bled some of the anger out of the
voters there,” Abjorensen said. “While Labor’s brand has been
damaged there, Gillard can take some heart in that the
Queensland poll was fought almost exclusively on state issues,
not federal ones.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  