-- Goldman’s Succession Fight Roiled by Infamous Op-Ed
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-03-25T23:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/goldman-s-succession-fight-roiled-by-infamous-op-ed.html
More often than not during the past
100 years, succession to the top job at  Goldman Sachs (GS)  has been a
blood sport.  A careful reading of former Goldman employee Greg Smith’s
infamous New York Times op-ed article -- along with a twist of
conspiracy theory -- suggests that the jockeying to replace
 Lloyd Blankfein , who has been Goldman’s chief executive officer
since June 2006, is well under way.  It’s also possible that Smith may have unwittingly, or
perhaps wittingly, given a boost to one candidate previously
thought to have been out of the running: J. Michael Evans, head
of the firm’s global growth markets.  Despite what Goldman would have you believe about how
carefully orchestrated its leadership changes have always been,
the firm has rarely had an orderly succession. Consider the exit
of Waddill Catchings, the first person from outside the family
to run Goldman Sachs. In 1930, partners  Sidney Weinberg  and
Walter Sachs decided that Catchings, whose creation of the
Goldman Sachs Trading Corporation had by then cost the firm $13
million and nearly put it out of business, had to go.  Firm’s Near-Collapse  Sachs first met with Catchings in  Chicago  to clip his
wings, and Catchings apologized for having taken gambles without
the approval of all partners. A few months later, Sachs and his
brother Arthur decided to buy Catchings out of his contract for
$250,000. “We had made up our minds to ask him to retire,”
Walter Sachs recalled in an oral history in the 1950s. “This
was because it had become clear to us that we just didn’t think
alike, that he had come as near ruining the name and the
reputation of the firm as any man could do.”  The Sachses selected Weinberg to be the senior partner, and
he went on to become one of the greatest investment bankers of
his generation. Yet he, too, refused to leave the stage
gracefully in favor of his successor, Gus Levy. So in the mid-
1960s, Levy forced Weinberg to move from Goldman’s headquarters
in downtown  Manhattan  to an office in the Seagram’s Building in
Midtown. But even kept out of the day-to-day flow, Weinberg
would not go quietly, and until his death in 1969 he made sure
Levy knew that he was still responsible for pay and promotions
at Goldman.  After Levy’s sudden death in 1976 -- he suffered a stroke
at a Port Authority board meeting -- the “Two Johns” (John Whitehead and John Weinberg, son of Sidney) succeeded him,
although Whitehead thought he should have had the position
alone. Things went fairly smoothly after Whitehead retired and
joined the State Department, with Weinberg running the firm
alone beginning at the end of 1984.  Yet by the end of the decade, Weinberg -- like his father
before him -- was sent packing to the Seagram’s Building to make
way for  Robert Rubin  and Steve Friedman to lead Goldman, in
December 1990. Rubin and Friedman had grown impatient that
Weinberg would not leave gracefully. That partnership worked
fine until Rubin left in January 1993 to join the Bill Clinton
administration, and then Friedman abdicated his position for
health reasons. This set off a week of ferocious infighting in
1994 at Goldman Sachs, with  Jon Corzine  being named senior
partner and  Hank Paulson  becoming his No. 2.  But Corzine and Paulson never got along. Corzine seemed
eager to merge Goldman with another Wall Street firm, an idea
Paulson resisted. Eventually, in January 1999, Paulson seized
his opportunity to get the four votes he needed on Goldman’s
five-member executive committee to remove Corzine, a swift coup-
d’etat. Two of the four votes came from partners  John Thornton 
and  John Thain  -- a longtime Corzine ally. In exchange, Paulson
promised the men that they would succeed him one day.  Promise Not Kept  But Paulson reneged on that promise, deciding in the end
that neither man had the right stuff to lead Goldman. When
Paulson became Treasury secretary in 2006, he thought Blankfein,
who had come from the trading floor, would be the better choice
to lead a firm so heavily dependent on trading revenue and
profit.  The machinations inside Goldman to succeed Blankfein are no
less Kremlin-like than at other times in its history. Lately,
Goldman insiders have been positioning  Gary Cohn , Goldman’s 51-
year-old president and a longtime Blankfein ally, as the obvious
candidate to succeed Blankfein when the time comes. This is a
relatively new development because many thought that promoting
Cohn, another former trader, would conflict with Goldman’s
supposed new priority on being client-friendly and a corporate
good citizen. But insiders note that Cohn has become much more
statesmanlike in the past year, and point to his high-profile
appearance at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , in
January as evidence.  No doubt Cohn’s renaissance has miffed the uber-competitive
Evans, a former Olympic gold-medalist (in rowing) and a Goldman
vice chairman. Evans had been a serious contender for the top
job, and in 2010 was made co-chairman of Goldman’s internal
Business Standards review committee, which published  a report  on
the firm’s role in the financial meltdown in January 2011.
However, insiders tell me, Evans’s ambitions and sharp elbows
had upset a number of important colleagues, and his star was
falling.  Enter  Greg Smith  with his bombshell. Evans has spent much
of his Goldman career at the London office, where Smith worked,
and they certainly knew each other. In his op-ed article, Smith
specifically cited Blankfein and Cohn as responsible for the
deterioration of Goldman’s culture during his almost 12 years at
the firm. Smith made no mention of Evans.  The logical question is, who benefits from Smith’s
embarrassing public indictment of Goldman’s culture under the
leadership of Blankfein and Cohn? How about the Machiavellian
Evans, a former protege of Paulson’s who can be presented to the
Goldman board -- and to the public -- as a worldly, client-
oriented, cleaner-than-clean savior and return of the old-school
style investment-banker at Goldman?  “Why doesn’t anyone call the Greg Smith story what it is,
the next round of alpha war at the top of GS?” one observer
recently e-mailed me. Why not, indeed.  (William D. Cohan , a former investment banker and the
author of “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Today’s
highlights:  The editors on health care’s day in court and fixing public
pensions. ( Link .)
 Noah Feldman  on the economics of Obamacare. ( Link .)
 Al Hunt  on Mormons and politics. ( Link .)
Dennis Kelleher and Marc Jarsulic on the Volcker Rule. ( Link .)
 Simon Johnson  on the debt ceiling and the War of 1812. ( Link .)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 