-- Iceland Is Hottest Airline Route as Tourism Attracts Easyjet
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-03-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/iceland-is-hottest-airline-route-as-tourism-attracts-easyjet.html
When Kurt Sperling chose  Iceland (ICGPSAQ) 
for a vacation off the beaten path, the American didn’t expect
his hotel to be thronged with visitors from around the world.  “I was amazed at the number of people,” said the 55-year-
old psychotherapist, who made his first trip to the island this
month. “I’m selfishly concerned that tourism may really boom
and all of the unspoiled aspects of the country will be
sullied.”  Adventurers like Sperling may face even bigger crowds this
year. Spurred by passenger growth double the average of European
hubs, U.K. budget airline  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  will begin services
tomorrow, followed by local startup WOW Air in June.  The turnaround since an $85 billion bank default in 2008
made the nation of 320,000 an emblem of the global financial
crisis has been spurred by a weakening of the krona that’s made
prices cheaper for visitors. An economic revival and volcanic
eruptions attracting adventurous travellers have also helped.  Keflavik airport , Iceland’s only international terminal,
boosted passenger numbers 18 percent to 2.1 million last year
and forecasts the total will reach a record 2.4 million in 2012.  Traffic to Iceland is climbing even as sagging demand and
spiraling oil prices undermine profitability across swathes of
the  airline industry , with earnings likely to plunge 62 percent
this year to $3 billion, equal to a 0.5 percent margin on sales,
the  International Air Transport Association  said on March 20.  Volcanic Eruptions  The failure of the financial system prompted two years of
losses at  Icelandair Group HF (ICEAIR) , which had survived for seven
decades with a business model based largely on providing one-
stop flights between  Europe  and  North America . The carrier says
the crisis and volcanic eruptions that followed ultimately had a
positive impact, forcing it into a strategic review and putting
its home country on the international map.  An eruption of the Eyjafjallajokull volcano in April 2010
caused the cancellation of more than 100,000 flights as an  ash
cloud  drifted over Europe, with further disruption occurring
just over a year later when the Grimsvotn caldera blew.  “Iceland was getting tremendous appearances in the news,”
Chief Executive Officer Birkir Holm said in an interview. “In
the short term it could harm the tourist industry, but long term
it could be a huge opportunity. We saw a chance to take all our
resources, marketing and everything, and attract more
tourists.”  WOW Factor  Icelandair aims to carry a record 2 million people in 2012,
helping the stock to a 17 percent gain this year. The stock
closed at 5.91 kronur on March 23, valuing a company that listed
in Reykjavik in 2006 at 29.6 billion kronur ($234 million).  The stock  surged 60 percent in 2011  after three years of
declines, outdoing not only mainline carriers such as Deutsche
Lufthansa AG and  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, which suffered declines,
but also  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , the best performer on the seven-
member  Bloomberg EMEA Airlines Index (BEUAIRL)  with a 3.8 percent drop.  Discount operator  WOW  will start “fairly conservatively,”
flying to 13 cities including London, Berlin, Paris and Alicante
in  Spain  before adding routes next year, founder Skuli Mogensen
said in an interview. It will use leased Airbus SAS A320 planes.  “Assuming Iceland continues to invest in infrastructure,
airports and tourism we think that there’s a great opportunity
ahead,” said Mogensen, 43. “The economy has recovered far
better than most people would have believed, or even have
realized, and we think that is very sustainable.”  Mogensen made his money as founder and chairman of
Oz Communications, which he sold to Nokia Oyj for an undisclosed
sum in 2008. He declined to say how much he’s investing in WOW.  Easyjet Expansion  Iceland  completed a 33-month International Monetary Fund
program in August, and  Fitch Ratings  in February raised the
island to investment grade, praising an “unorthodox crisis
policy.” The IMF said March 2 that the economy will expand 2.5
percent in 2012, versus a 0.3 percent contraction in the euro
area forecast by the European Commission. It grew 1.9 percent
last quarter and 4.4 percent in the three months to Sept. 30.  EasyJet will fly to Iceland three times a week with Airbus
A319 jets from its base at Luton, north of London. Europe’s
second-biggest discount airline initially planned a summer-only
service before deciding on year-round flights as the level of
demand became clear, Hugh Aitken, the company’s U.K. commercial
manager, said in a telephone interview. More than 50 percent of
summer seats have already been sold, the carrier says.  “Iceland is a destination that has become a lot more
visible over the past couple of years, partly because of their
efforts and partly because of external events,” he said. “A
lot of travelers have been to Paris and Barcelona and they’re
asking for something different. Reykjavik definitely fits the
bill.”  Flight Schedules  Like EasyJet, WOW will fly through the Icelandic winter,
when the sun barely rises, joining Icelandair, Nordic carrier
SAS Group and local no-frills operator  Iceland Express , which
began flying in 2003 and is limiting its summer schedule to 16
cities after withdrawing from U.S. routes. These routes could
resume in 2013, spokesman Heimir Mar Petursson said.  Keflavik’s 2012 timetable also features 12  summer-only
carriers , including  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , Delta Air Lines Inc.
and discount operators  Air Berlin Plc (AB1) , Germanwings and  Norwegian
Air Shuttle ASA (NAS) , which makes its first scheduled flight to the
airport 30 miles from the capital on June 7. Passenger numbers
should reach 15,000 a day on 23 flights, the hub’s website says.  Visitors are drawn by the volcanic landscape, with its lava
flows and geysers, the northern lights and the  Blue Lagoon hot
springs . Natural charms aside, Iceland’s allure has been buoyed
by the drop in the krona, which has yet to recover a 25 percent
slide against the dollar over two weeks in December, 2008.  Icelandair CEO Holm plans to cash in by adding a ninth
North American destination, Denver, to the network in May. Four
of those routes have been opened since the financial crisis.  Sperling, a resident of Greenwich,  Connecticut , who flew
with the carrier from  New York ’s John F. Kennedy airport, said
he’s already planning his second trip of the year.  “It’s a cinch from the east coast,” he said. “We enjoyed
ourselves and it was so reasonably priced compared to some other
destinations. And I feel like I only scratched the surface.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  