-- Israel Weighs Measures Against Palestinians Over UN Inquiry
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-03-25T11:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/israel-weighs-measures-against-palestinians-over-un-inquiry-1-.html
Israel  is considering measures
against the Palestinian Authority for promoting a United Nations
human rights inquiry into West Bank Jewish settlements, an
Israeli official said today.  The government is discussing various options, said the
official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not
authorized to speak on the record, and declined to go into
further detail. Israel has in the past temporarily withheld  tax
revenue  it collects on behalf of the Palestinian Authority as
punishment for unilateral diplomatic actions that it views as
directed against it.  The UN Human Rights Council agreed on March 22 by a vote of
36 to 1 to send a fact-finding mission to investigate how
Israeli settlements in the  West Bank  and East Jerusalem are
affecting the rights of Palestinians. The U.S., which cast the
sole vote against the resolution, said the council is biased
against Israel.  Israel said it won’t cooperate with the mission. “Since
the conclusions of the future fact-finding missions are already
dictated in advance by the resolution on which it is
established, there is no point in working together with this
travesty of an investigation,” Israeli Foreign Ministry Yigal Palmor said today in a phone interview.  Talks Frozen  Peace negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians have
been frozen since September 2010, when Israeli Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  declined to extend a 10-month freeze on
construction in West Bank settlements that  Palestinian Authority 
President  Mahmoud Abbas  has demanded as a precondition for
formal talks.  Abbas has subsequently pursued diplomatic steps to win the
Palestinians diplomatic recognition as a state by the
international community. An effort last autumn to gain full UN
membership fell short of the necessary votes in the  Security
Council . The Palestinian Authority successfully lobbied the UN
cultural agency Unesco to accept it as a full member-state last
November.  Abbas adviser Saeb Erakat said that any move by Israel to
withhold Palestinian tax funds would represent a deliberate
effort to destroy the Palestinian economy, and he called for an
immediate freeze on settlement-building. The U.S. vote against
the UN settlement probe proves its bias toward Israeli
positions, Erakat told the Voice of Palestine radio today.  The U.S. vote “reaffirmed its strong opposition to a
series of anti-Israel measures that continue unnecessarily to
politicize the Council’s human rights agenda,” State Department
spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said March 23, according to an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  