-- Jackson Seeks Voter Drive Against Florida Shooting Law
-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u   a n d   J e r r y   H a r t
-- 2012-03-25T18:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/jackson-seeks-voter-drive-against-florida-shooting-law.html
The Reverend  Jesse Jackson  called
for a voter-registration drive to elect officials who would
repeal a Florida law that prevented police from arresting a
crime-watch volunteer suspected in the fatal shooting of a black
teenager.  “There’s something toxic in the structure” of a system
where the shooter “was allowed to walk free,” Jackson said
today at a church in Eatonville, about 14 miles (23 kilometers)
from Sanford, the central Florida town where Trayvon Martin, 17,
was killed Feb. 26.  George Zimmerman said he shot Martin in self-defense.
Without contradictory evidence, police are prohibited by
Florida’s “stand your ground” statute from making an arrest,
Sanford City Manager Norton Bonaparte Jr. said in a report on
the city’s website.  Jackson called for an end to the law, saying 700,000
eligible unregistered black voters could be enlisted to elect
candidates who would support its repeal.  “Zimmerman is the mailman; ‘Stand your ground’ is the
ground system -- it’s the post office,” said Jackson, calling
Martin a martyr. “We must end the institution of ‘stand your
ground.”’  He called for an effort akin to a military operation.  “If it’s a moment, we go home,” he said. “If it’s a
movement, we go to war.” He urged supporters to “remain
nonviolent.”  Clarice Hopkins, executive assistant to the pastor at the
Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church, said she was informed of
Jackson’s appearance earlier in the week and that staff told the
congregation by word of mouth.  Full Church  The two-level church auditorium, which seats 1,150, was “a
little” more crowded today than usual, she said.  The  Florida  “stand your ground” law gives someone who feels
threatened greater latitude to use deadly force outside a home.
Jackson said the measure provides “an incentive for vigilantes
to kill people.” Martin “didn’t get killed because he was
wearing a hoodie, he got killed because he was black,” he said.  Jackson appeared on “Youth Sunday,” where children
dressed in white with blue collars opened the church service
amid gospel music. When he asked attendees if any had relatives
in jail, most stood in acknowledgement.  Members said they would hold a protest march tomorrow.
People who aren’t registered voters were called to the pulpit;
about a dozen came forward. Jackson asked all others to swear
they are registered. Those who aren’t will be registered today,
he said.  Congressional Hearing  U.S. Representative Corrine Brown, a Democrat whose
district includes Sanford, said after Jackson spoke that a
Congressional hearing would be held in Washington March 27.  “He still has that gun, and he has the right to carry that
gun,” she said, referring a firearm Zimmerman carried under
legal permit at the time of the shooting.  The  Justice Department  has opened a civil rights probe into
the slaying after 14 Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee
wrote Attorney General Eric Holder.  Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a first-term Republican,
assembled a  task force  led by Lieutenant Governor Jennifer Carroll, the state’s highest-ranking black official.  “You want to make sure everybody feels comfortable with
public safety in our state,” Scott said on CNN today when asked
about “stand your ground.” “I’m going to have different elected
officials appoint individuals, but we’ll look at all of it.”  Martin was walking through a residential neighborhood after
buying iced tea and candy at a convenience store when the
shooting occurred, Benjamin Crump, an attorney for the Martin
family, said at a March 20 news conference.  Zimmerman was identified as a white male in a Feb. 27
Sanford Police Department report posted on the city’s website.
His father, Robert Zimmerman, described him as “a Spanish-
speaking minority” in a March 15 letter to the Orlando
Sentinel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Sanford, Florida, at
 simonebaribeau@gmail.com ;
Jerry Hart in Miami at   jhart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Thompson at   cthompson1@bloomberg.net  