-- Juventus Ties Club Record to Keep Pressure on Milan; Malaga Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-03-25T23:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/juventus-ties-club-record-to-keep-pressure-on-milan-malaga-wins.html
Juventus beat  Inter Milan  2-0 to
stay unbeaten in Italian soccer’s Serie A and keep within four
points of leader AC Milan. Malaga won 2-1 at Espanyol to pull
even on points with third-place Valencia in  Spain .  Martin Caceres and Alessandro Del Piero scored second-half
goals in Turin last night as Juventus extended its unbeaten run
to 30 straight league games stretching back to last season to
tie the club record.  Juventus moved to 59 points through 29 games. AC Milan has
63 points after defeating Roma 2-1 two days ago, with Zlatan Ibrahimovic scoring both goals to take his Serie A total to 22
this season.  “We needed to win, regardless of Milan’s result,”
Juventus manager Antonio Conte told his team’s website. “The
title is in their hands, and we’ll need to be clever and take
advantage of every chance.”  Mobido Diakite’s late goal gave third-place Lazio a 1-0 win
against Cagliari yesterday to boost the Rome club’s chances of
qualifying for the  Champions League . It leads Napoli and Udinese
by three points after both were held to draws, 2-2 against
Catania and 1-1 at Palermo respectively.  Malaga took advantage of Valencia’s 3-1 loss at Getafe two
days ago to join it on 47 points in La Liga. Real  Madrid  and
 Barcelona  both won on March 24 to continue their domination in
Spain. Madrid holds a six-point lead over Barca, with a 22-point
gap to the next two teams.  Ruud van Nistelrooy and  Martin Demichelis  scored in a
second half comeback for Malaga at Espanyol. Levante missed an
opportunity to keep pace with Malaga as it lost 2-0 at home
against Osasuna.  Dortmund’s Rout  German Bundesliga leader  Borussia Dortmund  routed Cologne
6-1 yesterday to maintain its five-point lead over  Bayern
Munich . Japanese midfielder Shinji Kagawa got two of the goals.  Bayern beat Hanover 2-1 two days ago, while third-place
Schalke, which is four points further back, won 2-0 against
 Bayer Leverkusen .  Paris Saint-Germain missed the chance to regain top spot
from Montpellier in  France ’s Ligue 1 last night after a 1-1 draw
against mid-table Bordeaux. PSG and Montpellier have 60 points
through 29 games.  Montpellier beat St. Etienne 1-0 two days ago, while third-
place Lille, the defending champion, is a further seven points
back after a 3-0 win at Evian.  AZ Alkmaar and Ajax both won in Dutch soccer’s Eredivisie
yesterday, one day after  FC Twente  was held to a 1-1 tie by Den
Haag which drops it to third place.  Alkmaar beat RKC Waalwijk 1-0 and maintains a one-point
advantage over defending champion Ajax, which defeated PSV
Eindhoven 2-0.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  