-- Kentucky, Kansas Complete NCAA Tournament’s Final Four
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-26T05:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/kansas-beats-north-carolina-to-join-kentucky-in-ncaa-final-four.html
The University of  Kentucky  is back
in the Final Four of college basketball’s national men’s
tournament for the 15th time, while  Kansas  earned a 14th trip.  Kentucky opened a 20-point halftime lead and defeated
Baylor University 82-70 yesterday in the South Regional final in
Atlanta. The University of Kansas used a game-ending 12-0
scoring run to beat the University of North Carolina 80-67 in
the Midwest Regional final in  St. Louis ,  Missouri .  Only three schools have been to the National Collegiate
Athletic Association tournament’s Final Four as many or more
times than Kentucky and Kansas. Kentucky (36-2) plays Louisville
(30-9) and Kansas (31-6) meets Ohio State (31-7), both on March
31 in  New Orleans , for berths in the April 2 championship game.  Kentucky is the lone No. 1 regional seed to reach the Final
Four, one year after losing to eventual champion  Connecticut  in
the national semifinals. Kansas was the second seed in the
Midwest, Ohio State the No. 2 team in the East and Louisville
was seeded fourth in the Western Regional.  “All that amount of work that we put in that whole year
and we lost like that, it really hurt us,” Kentucky senior
guard Darius Miller said about last season’s Final Four loss.
“That was kind of motivation for us this year too. We know how
it feels to lose, and we don’t want to feel that way again.”  Both Final Four games are rematches.  State rivals Kentucky and Louisville will play three months
after the Wildcats won 69-62 in Lexington. Kentucky is an 8.5-
point favorite, the biggest spread for a Final Four game since
1999, according to Las Vegas-based handicapping information
website Pregame.com.  Talented Team  “They are a very talented team and they compete,” said
Kentucky coach  John Calipari , who is in the Final Four for a
fourth time. “I’m going to enjoy this. I’m not worried about
who we’re playing. I’m just happy we’re still playing.”  Kansas beat Ohio State 78-67 at home on Dec. 10, though the
Buckeyes played without leading scorer Jared Sullinger. Ohio
State is listed as a 2.5-point favorite this time, according to
Nevada oddsmakers.  “The last time we played them they had their best player
on the bench and it was a home game, so it’s definitely their
chance to get back at us,” said Kansas senior guard Tyshawn
Taylor, who scored a team-high 22 points in yesterday’s win.
“But we feel like we didn’t play our best that game either.”  Kentucky is two wins from its eighth championship, second
only to the 11 of the University of  California ,  Los Angeles .  Three Titles  Kansas won the last of its three titles in 2008, Louisville
has won two championships and Ohio State claimed its lone NCAA
tournament victory in 1960.  After falling behind Baylor 10-5 during the opening minutes
yesterday, Kentucky went on a 16-0 scoring run and led 42-22 at
halftime. The Wildcats pushed their lead to 51-28 less than four
minutes into the second half.  Baylor (30-8) never got closer than 10 points the rest of
the way in suffering its first loss of the season against a
school outside the Big 12 Conference.  “This team is actually even better than I thought,”
Baylor coach Scott Drew said of the Wildcats. “We definitely
haven’t played a better team than them all year.”  Michael Kidd-Gilchrist scored a team-high 19 points for the
Wildcats, while fellow freshman forward  Anthony Davis  had 18
points, 11 rebounds and six blocked shots. Kentucky’s 109 NCAA
tournament wins are the most in college basketball history, one
more than  North Carolina .  Quincy Acy scored 22 points and Pierre Jackson had 21 for
Baylor, which shot 39 percent to Kentucky’s 53 percent.  12-0 Run  Kansas held a 68-67 lead over North Carolina and former
coach  Roy Williams  with 3:58 remaining before closing the game
with 12 unanswered points.  “We just switched our defense up a little bit and it kind
of took them out of what they wanted to run,” Taylor added.  Thomas Robinson finished with 18 points and nine rebounds
for the Jayhawks, who won for the fourth time in 10 meetings
against North Carolina. The previous four matchups between the
schools had come in the Final Four.  James Michael McAdoo had 15 points and Harrison Barnes
added 13 for North Carolina (32-6), which played without
starting point guard Kendall Marshall because of a broken wrist.
The Tar Heels were denied a record-extending 19th Final Four
trip, while UCLA has made 17 trips to the national semifinals
and Duke 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 