-- NBNK Bids $2.4 Billion for 632 Lloyds Branches: Telegraph
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-03-25T15:07:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/nbnk-bids-2-4-billion-for-632-lloyds-branches-telegraph.html
Lloyds Banking Group (LLOY)  said it
remains in exclusive talks to sell 632 branches to Co-Operative
Bank Plc after the Sunday Telegraph reported  NBNK Investments
Plc (NBNK)  is still pursuing the assets.  Lloyds spokesman Ed Petter said Britain’s second-largest
state-controlled lender is in “exclusive negotiations” with
Co-Op, which remains the “preferred bidder” for the branches.  NBNK, created by former Lloyds of London Chairman  Peter
Levene  to bid for financial businesses, will offer 1.5 billion
pounds ($2.4 billion), the Sunday Telegraph said. That’s the
same price as NBNK was said to offer before Co-Op was picked as
the preferred bidder by Lloyds in December. Co-Op has offered
1.4 billion pounds, the newspaper said.  Olly Scott, a spokesman for NBNK, declined to comment by e-
mail today. Lloyds is selling the branches to comply with
European Union rules on state aid in the wake of its rescue by
the British government following the 2008 financial crisis.  Lloyds delayed a detailed report on the sale last week and
said it was preparing the branches for an initial public
offering, fueling speculation Co-Op’s bid is struggling as
regulators demand a full-time chief executive officer for the
customer-owned lender’s banking arm. The Telegraph has
previously reported that Co-Op had tried to hire NBNK’s chief
executive, Gary Hoffman.  The Sunday Telegraph said NBNK’s bid proposes that Lloyds
spin off the branches and list them on the stock market as a
separate company, with shareholders in Lloyds being allowed to
choose between accepting new shares or cash from NBNK. The
newspaper didn’t say how it got the information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Harrison  at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net  