-- Newcastle Wins 3-1 at West Brom in League as Cisse Scores Twice
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-03-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/newcastle-wins-3-1-at-west-bromwich-in-soccer-s-premier-league.html
Papiss Cisse scored twice as
Newcastle beat West Bromwich Albion 3-1 to move level on points
with fifth-place Chelsea in soccer’s Premier League.  Hatem Ben Arfa also got a goal at the Hawthorns yesterday
as the Magpies ended a run of two straight away defeats.  Shane
Long  replied for West Brom.  “To have the same points as Chelsea at this point is
phenomenal really,” Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew  told Sky
Sports. “We had a real good control of our passing and our
movement was terrific, our best players stepped forward.”  Chelsea and Newcastle have 50 points, five fewer than
Tottenham, which holds the last spot that secures qualification
for the Champions League.  Manchester City  and  Manchester United 
have 70 points, with City ahead on goal difference, and Arsenal
is on 58. Seventh-place Liverpool has 42 points.  Fifth position guarantees a spot in the second-tier Europa
League, while as many as two extra spots could be available
depending on whether the domestic cup winners qualify through
their league positions.  Cisse, signed from  Germany ’s Freiburg in January, got the
opening goal after six minutes. The Senegal striker converted a
close-range shot from a cross by Ben Arfa.  Ben Arfa doubled the visitor’s advantage six minutes later
following a quick counterattack, firing a powerful shot past
goalkeeper Ben Foster.  Peter Odemwingie  had an effort ruled out on 32 minutes
because West Brom strike partner Marc-Antoine Fortune was
offside. Within two minutes Newcastle had scored its third goal.  ‘Momentum’  Cisse finished with his left foot for a fifth goal in six
games for the Magpies.  “If we keep this momentum going anything can happen,”
Newcastle defender Mike Williamson told Sky Sports.  West Brom made two changes at halftime, introducing Chris
Brunt and Long, while an injury to Newcastle captain Fabricio Coloccini saw him replaced by Davide Santon.  Long got his team’s goal on 52 minutes following a mix-up
in Newcastle’s defense between Williamson and goalkeeper Tim Krul.  Cisse was carried off the field on a stretcher with 12
minutes remaining.  West Brom’s James Morrison suffered a leg injury in the
82nd minute and was unable to continue, leaving the Baggies with
10 men after using all three of their substitutes.  Winless Run  West Brom, in 14th spot, is now on a three-match winless
run.  “We were 3-0 down at halftime from their counter-attacks, I
don’t think we dealt with that very well,” West Brom manager  Roy Hodgson  told  Sky Sports . “All we could do was try to make a game
of the second half.”  Two days ago, Manchester City was held to a 1-1 tie at
Stoke City. United can take a three-point lead if it wins
against Fulham today.  Arsenal beat Aston Villa 3-0, Chelsea drew 0-0 against
Tottenham, while Liverpool lost 2-1 at home against Wigan.
Wolverhampton Wanderers are last in the 20-team standings after
a 2-1 defeat at Norwich, Bolton beat Blackburn 2-1, Everton won
2-0 at Swansea, and Sunderland defeated Queens Park Rangers 3-1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 