-- Nordea Shunning ECB Cash Gets Market Thumbs Up, CEO Says
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-03-26T09:08:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/nordea-shunning-ecb-cash-gets-market-thumbs-up-ceo-says.html
Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ’s decision to avoid
three-year loans offered by the  European Central Bank  is proving
a winning strategy as investors reward the bank with lower
borrowing costs, Chief Executive Officer  Christian Clausen  said.  “For us it’s more important to have a very strong,
consistent, market-oriented funding strategy,” Clausen, who is
also the president of the European Banking Federation, said in
an interview in Stockholm. “We get clear feedback that
investors really like that.”  The ECB has poured more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) into Europe’s banks since December in an effort to
support debt markets and stem the region’s crisis. While the
cash infusion initially showed signs of propping up bonds sold
by Italy and  Spain , yields last week crept up again, signaling
the effect may not be long-lasting. For Nordea, the facility
didn’t offer enough benefits, Clausen said.  It’s “not so much a stigma,” he said. Instead, “we don’t
think it will be regarded as three-year money, but more like
one- to two-year money. Then the price is not significantly
different from what we could fund ourselves at.”  The cost of the ECB’s three-year loans is based on the
bank’s  refinancing rate , 1 percent since December, and
calculated as an average over the life of the loan. The ECB has
suspended rating requirements for bonds from  Greece ,  Portugal 
and Ireland, meaning it accepts securities rated junk as
collateral.  ‘Tremendously Risky’  The facility helped send yields on 10-year Italian debt
below 5 percent at the beginning of last week from more than 7
percent in November as banks used the cash to invest in
sovereign-debt markets. Still,  Italy ’s 10-year yield approached
5.10 percent last week. The yield on Spain’s 10-year note also
rose above 5 percent, after having slipped below that level at
the beginning of March.  “The ECB LTRO program is tremendously risky,” said Daniel Sachs, chairman and chief executive officer at Stockholm-based
corporate-bond investment firm Proventus AB. “It is leading to
banks with large structural problems getting new funding at
rates below market levels and suddenly becoming more active
again on the lending market.”  According to Clausen, the only way to restore confidence in
Europe’s banks is by demonstrating they have adequate capital
buffers. Lenders will struggle to win over investors if they
have less than 10 percent in reserves backing their risk-
weighted assets, he said.  ‘Significant Factor’  At Nordea, “it’s a significant factor that we are above 10
percent capital, which other banks in Europe might not be,”
Clausen said. “That is a disqualifier. You have to be above a
certain hurdle.”  Sweden’s four biggest banks, Nordea,  Svenska Handelsbanken
AB (SHBA) ,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and SEB AB, all have core Tier 1 capital ratios
of at least 11.2 percent. All four have issued senior unsecured
debt this year, rejecting the ECB’s emergency cash.  Clausen said he is “not criticizing” banks that used the
facility. “I can perfectly well understand why they do it and
we would have also done it if it had matched our funding
strategy. It just doesn’t match our strategy.”  Sweden’s government in November told the country’s four
biggest banks to target higher capital buffers than those set by
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  and to reach the
goals six years earlier than Basel’s 2019 deadline.  More Not Better  Swedish banks need to bring their core Tier 1 capital
ratios -- a measure of financial strength -- to at least 10
percent of their risk-weighted assets by next year. That ratio
needs to rise by 2 percentage points by 2015. Basel sets a
minimum target of 7 percent by 2019.  Still, once a bank has passed the 10 percent capital
threshold, the benefits start to wane, according to Clausen.  “The more the better is not the case,” he said. “ Risk
diversification is extremely important, volatility in the income
stream is very important, the level of income is very important,
then you move into other areas.”  Finance Minister Anders Borg says the stricter capital
rules will protect tax payers from potential losses. Sweden’s
banks, whose combined balance sheets are about four times the
size of the $500 billion economy, will win investor confidence
thanks to the stricter rules, according to Borg.  “In a risky environment, strong  capital requirements  can
be good for shareholders,” Borg told Bloomberg. “It should be
much more acceptable for investors to be willing to put money in
a bank that is safe.”  Credit Derivatives  Credit-default swaps tied to Nordea, Handelsbanken,
Swedbank and SEB all trade at lower prices than the average for
banks in  Europe . That means investors are willing to pay less to
insure against default at the four lenders than on their
European rivals.  Handelsbanken raised 1 billion euros of debt in January due
July 2017, while Nordea sold two-year floating-rate notes that
were priced to yield 95 basis points more than the benchmark
euro interbank offered rate. Sweden’s biggest bank also sold 4
percent fixed-rate bonds due July 2019 to yield 195 basis points
over the mid-swap rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  lashed out last month at bankers
who said tapping the three-year-loan program carries a stigma,
after executives including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s  Josef Ackermann 
said they shunned the loans.  “Mario Draghi was very clear that there was no stigma
attached to being a part of this broad-based support system,”
Borg said. “There are some 800 banks in Europe that are taking
part in this system. What the ECB is trying to do is to get the
transmission mechanism to work, to get interest rate cuts to
feed through in terms of demand stimulation.”  The facility has given troubled banks time to adjust,
Clausen said.  “You could say there’s some good oil in the system to make
everything work together in a good way,” he said. “There are a
few that will have real issues. They’ll just get a little more
time to handle that and restructure.”  Nordea’s  shares  fell 1.2 percent to 61 kronor at 11:06 a.m.
in  Stockholm , compared with the 43-member Bloomberg Europe banks
and financial services index that was down 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  