-- Nuclear Industry Says Back on Track After Fukushima `Speed Bump’
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r ,   S a n g i m   H a n   a n d   S h i n h y e   K a n g
-- 2012-03-25T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/nuclear-industry-says-back-on-track-after-fukushima-speed-bump-.html
Within months of the Fukushima
nuclear disaster, the worst in 25 years,  Germany , Belgium and
 Italy  vowed to quit atomic energy. Twelve months on, the nuclear
industry says it’s almost back to business as usual.  “Fukushima put a speed bump on the road to the nuclear
renaissance,” Ganpat Mani, president of Converdyn, a company
that processes mined uranium, said at a nuclear industry summit
in Seoul last week. “It’s not going to delay the programs
around the world.”  As  Japan  mourned this month for the 19,000 people killed or
presumed dead from the earthquake and tsunami that also wrecked
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station,  India  last week overrode
six months of local protests to approve the start of its
Kudankulam plant. In February, the U.S. gave the green light to
build the nation’s first reactor in 30 years.  China  is “very
likely” to resume approval of new nuclear projects this year,
said Sun Qin, president of China National Nuclear Corp.  With 650 million people in China and India living without
access to electricity, the nations are looking to the atom to
provide power without raising emissions and fossil fuel costs.
Nuclear is not the only alternative to fossil fuels, but the use
of renewable energy for now is restricted by technology and
costs, according to  South Korea ’s Prime Minister Kim Hwang Sik.  Fifty Years  “It would be a more practical and viable solution, at
least, for the next forty to fifty years, to make commitments to
the safe use of nuclear energy,” Kim told the industry summit
before welcoming counterparts including U.S. President Barack Obama for a nuclear security meeting that starts today.  Indonesia, Egypt, and Chile are among more than a dozen
nations planning to build their first nuclear station to join
the 30 countries operating atomic plants. Sixty one reactors are
currently under construction and a further 162 units are
planned, according to the  World Nuclear Association .  The planned reactors alone have a greater capacity than all
of the  435 reactors that supply 13.8 percent  of the world’s
electricity today. By 2030 at least 60 units will need to be
retired, the WNA estimates. Still, global nuclear capacity may
grow by about 50 percent to 600,000 megawatts by 2030,  Areva SA (AREVA) 
Chief Executive Officer Luc Oursel told reporters in Seoul.  The nuclear industry has faced three major accidents in the
last 32 years, with the first two delaying construction of
atomic plants for decades in the countries where the disasters
happened. The 1979 Three Mile Island core meltdown in the U.S.
and the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear plant explosion in the former
 Soviet Union . And now Fukushima.  Waiting on Fukushima  After the quake and tsunami engulfed Japan’s northeast
coast the plant operated by  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  lost mains
and battery power to cool its reactors, resulting in three core
meltdowns and radiation leakage. About 160,000 people, or 8
percent of the Fukushima prefecture population, evacuated and
about 132 square kilometers remain as a no-go zone around the
station.  A unified report on Fukushima with an estimate of the total
radiation fallout and the levels of food contamination will not
be ready for at least another 14 months when the United Nations
Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation issues
its first global and independent assessment.  The industry has already learned lessons from Fukushima and
they are incorporated into the safety systems of today’s power
plants and the new models, said John Welch, chief executive
officer of  USEC Inc. (USU) , the U.S. uranium enricher.  Amazed  “One thing that never ceases to amaze me about the
industry, especially in the U.S., is that they take their job of
running those plants safely and continuing to self-evaluate”
very seriously, Welch said in an interview in Seoul.  France ’s state-controlled nuclear company Areva will spend
2 billion euros ($2.65 billion) or a quarter of its investments
over the next five years on safety improvements, Oursel said.
U.S. utilities have installed an additional 300 piece of major
equipment to boost safety since Fukushima, according to the
Washington-based Nuclear Energy Institute.  The NEI, which represents companies including Exelon Corp.
and  Southern Co. (NSC) , is also doubling its advertising spending to
roll out a campaign from this month to promote atomic power. The
campaign is due to feature in media including “The Daily Show
with  Jon Stewart ,” the Emmy-award winning Comedy Central show,
the Economist and Facebook.  Different This Time  “Different from past experiences in the U.S. nuclear
industry we’ve spent a lot more time in the last year out in
front of our stakeholders, the communities in which we operate,
our elected officials, the citizens who work in our plants,”
Charles Pardee, chief operating officer of  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the
biggest U.S. utility, told the Seoul forum.  “We’ve done this to make sure we’re as transparent as we
can possibly be about what we’ve learned from these experiences
and what we’ll do better going forward,” he said.  Still, safety improvements and mass campaigns will not be
the clincher for whether nuclear power succeeds or loses out to
a glut of natural gas from shale rock deposits or renewables,
said Helmut Engelbrecht, chief executive officer of Urenco Ltd.,
the uranium enrichment company owned by the U.K., Germany and
the Netherlands.  “In the long run our industry will only be successful if
we prove that we are a competitive alternative to other forms of
electricity,” Engelbrecht said in an interview in  Seoul . That
means competing on cost as much as proving its safety
credentials. The industry is 10 years away from achieving this
competitiveness, he said.  New Markets  Areva’s market outlook is more positive. There are many
tenders for new reactors and other contracts out there, Oursel
said. “When we now look at the global situation, we think it’s
going to pick up very soon,” he said.  The future of nuclear demand lies in expansion to new
countries as well as ongoing construction in India, China and
 Russia , Converdyn’s Mani said. India, which gets 3 percent of
its power from nuclear energy, had targeted a 13-fold increase
in capacity to 60,000 megawatts by 2030 prior to Fukushima.  China has 26 units under construction in addition to 15
operating reactors, according to the WNA. A further 51 units are
planned and 120 proposed, meaning that China may account for a
third of all the new construction, WNA data show.  The so-called nuclear renaissance isn’t limited to  Asia ’s
economic growth. Countries including Poland and Turkey say that
the risks and costs of rising fossil fuel prices and security of
supply make nuclear generation a must for them.  Saving Money  Turkey’s disagreement with Russia’s  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  over
discounts led to the cancellation of a contract for as much as 6
billion cubic meters of annual gas purchases last year. By
building two nuclear plants the country can cut its dependence
on gas imports from Russia, its biggest fuel provider, and save
as much as $7 billion over four years, Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz  said Dec. 15.  For companies like Kazatomprom, the state nuclear company
of  Kazakhstan , the world’s largest uranium exporter, that bodes
good profits. The company is a shareholder in  Toshiba Corp. (6502) ’s
Westinghouse Electric, which is due to build the first new U.S.
reactor in 30 years in Georgia State. Kazatomprom also has
ventures with Russia’s Rosatom Corp., which is due to build and
run Turkey’s first nuclear plant.  “If our plans come off then the partnerships will be very
profitable,” Kazatomprom president Vladimir Shkolnik said in an
interview in Seoul. Both Rosatom and Westinghouse are going into
new markets, which opens export avenues for the Kazakh company,
he said.  The disaster at Fukushima has provided “many lessons,
especially on how important nuclear safety is,” Kim Jong Shin,
chairman of Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co. told reporters at
the Seoul summit.  Still, the technology has no alternative that can provide
“clean and sustainable energy,” Kim said. Given its role in
medicine and national security, nuclear is “indispensable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Seoul at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net ;
Shinhye Kang in Seoul at 
 skang24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  