-- Obama, Turkey’s Erdogan Meet in Seoul on Syria, Iran
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-03-25T09:59:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/obama-turkey-s-erdogan-meet-in-seoul-on-syria-iran.html
President  Barack Obama  and Turkish
Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  discussed ways to press
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to step aside, including non-
lethal assistance to the opposition and getting Iran to stop
supporting Assad’s regime.  Following a one-hour and 45 minute meeting between the men,
Obama said he and Erdogan are “very much in agreement” on the
need for a process to transition to a legitimate government in
Syria, after months of deadly violence by Assad’s regime to
quash anti-government protests.  Obama and Erdogan met in Seoul ahead of the two-day Nuclear
Security Summit that begins tomorrow.  Erdogan, through a translator, said as a matter of
conscience it was unacceptable to stand by as onlookers, and
that more needed to be done to protect Syrians within the
framework of international law.  The bulk of their meeting focused on the agenda for an
April 1 Friends of  Syria  meeting in Istanbul, which U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  is to attend, Deputy National
Security Adviser  Ben Rhodes  told reporters traveling with Obama.  Rhodes said next month’s meeting would consider non-lethal
assistance to the opposition including communications tools and
medicine. He said lethal assistance would not be part of those
discussions given the “uncertain” nature of some elements of
the opposition.  Erdogan told Obama he planned to travel to Iran and would
press the regime to stop providing support to the Assad
government, Rhodes said.  Erdogan last November called on Assad to quit. Earlier this
month, he met with U.S. Central Intelligence Agency Director
David Petraeus in Ankara. Turkey is housing thousands of Syrian
refugees who crossed the border in recent months fleeing
violence.  Turkey  is under pressure to reduce Iranian oil purchases
under law enacted Dec. 31, in which countries have until June 28
to demonstrate significant reductions or risk banks being cut
off from the U.S. financial system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Seoul at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Seoul at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  