-- Obama Warns North Korea Rocket Endangers Negotiations
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n ,   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-03-26T03:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/obama-warns-north-korea-rocket-jeopardizes-future-negotiations.html
President  Barack Obama  warned North
 Korea  its plan to fire a long-range rocket undermined prospects
for future negotiations as the military in Seoul said Kim Jong Un’s forces had moved the missile to its launch site.  Obama, who peered through binoculars into the North as he
toured the Demilitarized Zone yesterday, spoke at a meeting in
the South Korean capital with President Lee Myung Bak. He’ll
hold talks today with Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  and
Chinese President  Hu Jintao  as they gather for a nuclear
security summit aimed at keeping fissile material out of the
hands of terrorists.  Kim, who took over when his father Kim Jong Il died in
December, is putting at risk 240,000 metric tons of food aid
from the U.S. even as many of his people go hungry. Obama, who
faces an election this year, is using his trip to increase
pressure on  North Korea  and Iran over their nuclear programs.  The rocket launch “would constitute a direct violation”
of North Korea’s commitments and obligations and “seriously
undermine the prospects of future negotiations,” Obama said.
“North Korea will achieve nothing by threats or by
provocations.”  There are 28,500 U.S. forces in  South Korea , facing off
against a North Korean military that has placed 70 percent of
its ground forces within 90 kilometers of the DMZ, including
about 250 long-range artillery systems capable of striking the
Seoul area, according to U.S. Forces Korea.  ‘Weapons Technology’  “Long-range rocket launches are worrisome because they
could improve North Korea’s weapons technology, serving as a
chance to test missile systems that can carry nuclear
warheads,” said Koh Yu Hwan, a professor of North Korean
studies at  Dongguk University  in  Seoul .  Obama said during his news conference with Lee that he will
press  China ’s Hu in their meeting to take a tougher stance
toward North Korea to fulfill its international obligations and
move toward denuclearization. North Korea is dependent on energy
and food assistance from China, which has sought to support its
neighbor to avoid unrest that could hinder trade and prompt a
wave of refugees across its border.  “My suggestion to China is that how they communicate their
concerns to North Korea should probably reflect the fact that
the approach they’ve taken over the last several decades hasn’t
led to a fundamental shift in North Korea’s behavior,” Obama
said.  Chinese Concern  Hu expressed concern over North Korea’s planned rocket
launch during a meeting today with South Korean President  Lee
Myung Bak , according to Kim Tae Hyo, South Korea’s senior
secretary for national security strategy. Kim said the Chinese
leader told Lee that his country is “continuously
communicating” with North Korea to prevent the liftoff.  Obama met Lee at the presidential Blue House yesterday less
than two weeks after the two nations’ free-trade pact came into
effect and as their militaries continue war games aimed at
deterring any aggression from the regime in Pyongyang.  “The contrast between South Korea and North Korea could
not be clearer,” Obama told troops at Camp Bonifas on the edge
of the DMZ. “Both in terms of freedom but also in terms of
prosperity.”  The president stopped for about 10 minutes at Observation
Post Ouellette, within 100 yards (90 meters) of the demarcation
line that was drawn at the end of the  Korean War  in 1953. U.S.
and South Korean troops make foot patrols from the post, which
has four guard towers and underground bunkers.  Guard Posts  Obama looked into North Korea, where guard posts, the
industrial complex at Gaeseong and sparsely vegetated hillsides
and fields are visible from Ouellette. South Korean
manufacturers employ North Korean workers at the Gaeseong
complex, which has kept running even as political tensions rise.  It was like peering into “a time warp” of a half-century
of missed progress, Obama said at his press conference with Lee.  A North Korean flag flew at half mast in the distance as
the totalitarian regime yesterday marked 100 days since the
death of  Kim Jong Il .  Lee and Obama said they weren’t prepared to make strategic
assessments of Kim Jong Un. Obama added that North Korea’s long-
term objectives weren’t clear and it was difficult to see
“who’s calling the shots” in the country.  ‘Smear Campaign’  North Korea and Iran aren’t participants in the two-day
Nuclear Security Summit in Seoul, where the focus will be on
preventing radioactive material from getting into the hands of
terror groups. The legacy of the  Soviet Union ’s breakup,
inadequate atomic stockpile controls and the proliferation of
nuclear-fuel technology mean the world may be awash with
unaccounted-for weapons ingredients, ripe to be picked up by
terrorists.  North Korea described the event as a platform for an
“international smear campaign” against it, according to a
statement on March 23 carried by the official Korean Central
News Agency.  South Korea was the U.S.’s seventh-largest goods trading
partner, with $88 billion in total for 2010, according to the
Office of the U.S. Trade Representative.  The free-trade agreement between the two nations is the
biggest for the U.S. in almost two decades. It will cut about 80
percent of tariffs between them and may increase U.S. exports as
much as $10.9 billion in the first year it’s in full effect,
according to the U.S. International Trade Commission.  Pressure on Iran  This is Obama’s third visit to South Korea since taking
office in 2009. Previous U.S. presidents to visit the DMZ were
 Ronald Reagan ,  Bill Clinton  and  George W. Bush .  He is also using his meeting with world leaders to ratchet
up economic pressure on  Iran  in an effort to persuade it to
abandon any illicit part of its nuclear program. The U.S.,
 Europe  and  Israel  have accused Iran of seeking the capability to
build a nuclear weapon. Iran says its program is for civilian
energy and medical research.  North Korea’s announcement of a mid-April rocket launch
will make it difficult to move forward with a Feb. 29 U.S. aid
deal and broader efforts to get the regime back to negotiations
on its nuclear weapons program, Obama said. The South Korean and
U.S. militaries are aware that North Korea has moved the
fuselage of a long-range missile to an indoor launch site at
Tongchang-ri in the nation’s northwest, South Korea’s Joint
Chiefs of Staff told reporters in Seoul yesterday.  South Korea’s defense ministry estimated the cost of the
rocket launch at approximately $800 million, spokesman Kim Min
Seok told reporters today in Seoul, without providing further
details.  The aim is to put a satellite into orbit and this is “an
issue quite different” from the Feb. 29 agreement, an
unidentified spokesman for the North Korean Foreign Ministry
said in a statement on KCNA on March 23.  North Korea will “inevitably” be compelled to take
countermeasures against “any sinister attempt” to hinder its
planned rocket launch, the spokesman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  