-- Oil Drops From Two-Day High in New York Demand Outlook
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-26T07:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/oil-trades-near-three-day-high-in-new-york-brent-little-changed.html
Oil dropped from the highest close
in two days in  New York  on speculation that fuel demand may
falter as  China’s economy  slows and Europe struggles to tame its
debt crisis.  Futures slid as much as 0.4 percent after gaining 1.4
percent on March 23.  BYD Co. (1211) , the Chinese carmaker partly owned
by Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , forecast profit may
fall as much as 95 percent. Spain could reignite the European
debt crisis, Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  warned as euro-
area ministers prepare a deal to strengthen the region’s
financial firewall.  Oil prices  are headed for a second quarterly
increase amid concern tension with Iran will disrupt global
crude supplies.  “If you look at demand growth, not only in the OECD
countries but also  China  where we’re seeing a slowdown, global
oil demand is relatively weak at the moment,” Neil Beveridge, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. “While we’ve still got
uncertainty around Iran I think oil prices will remain high but
if things revert back to fundamentals, really there’s probably
about a 20 percent drop from here.”  Oil for May delivery slipped as much as 44 cents to $106.43
a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile
Exchange and was at $106.59 at 6:11 p.m. Sydney time. It rose
$1.52 to $106.87 on March 23, the highest close since March 21.
Prices are up 7.9 percent so far this year after advancing 25
percent last quarter.  Trading Range  Brent oil for May settlement was at $124.91 a barrel, down
22 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West
Texas Intermediate was at $18.32.  “We’ve priced in the major supply and demand issues, and
really in terms of West Texas it’s going to take a fair bit to
break us out of that $103.50 to $108.50 a barrel range,” said
Michael McCarthy, a chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia
Pacific Pty in Sydney.  BYD’s first-quarter profit may plunge by between 65 percent
and 95 percent, the company said in a statement yesterday.
China’s vehicle sales this year will probably miss their 8
percent growth forecast as the slowing economy and rising fuel
costs curb buying, said an official at the state-backed auto
association on March 20.  Spain’s 10-year yields climbed for a third week last week
after  Willem Buiter , Citigroup Inc. chief economist, said the
nation faced an increasing risk of debt restructuring. Euro-area
finance ministers meet in Copenhagen starting March 30 as they
seek an agreement to raise a 500 billion-euro ($664 billion)
ceiling on bailout funding.  Sanctions on Iran  China was the world’s second-biggest oil user in 2010,
accounting for 11 percent of consumption, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy. European Union nations
accounted for 16 percent and the U.S. for 21 percent.  “Time is short” to solve the showdown with Iran
diplomatically, U.S. President  Barack Obama  said today in Seoul
before a summit on nuclear security. The U.S. and the European
Union are imposing sanctions on Iran to halt its nuclear
program. The Persian Gulf nation has threatened to shut the
Strait of Hormuz, a transit route for a fifth of the world’s
oil, in response to an embargo on its crude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  