-- Hong Kong Police Use Spray as Protesters Try to Storm Poll Site
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2012-03-25T16:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/hong-kong-police-use-spray-as-protesters-try-to-storm-poll-site.html
Hong Kong  police used pepper spray
on protesters including unionist and lawmaker Lee Cheuk-yan in
clashes outside the venue where former government adviser Leung Chun-ying was picked to be the city’s new leader.  The approximately 2,000 demonstrators from parties
including  People Power , the  Social League of Democrats  and the
 Civic Party  carried banners calling for full democracy outside
the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre. Leung, 57, won
61 percent of the votes cast by a 1,193-member committee of
businessmen, lawmakers and academics.  “When it was announced C.Y. was elected, the people were
very angry and rushed forward towards the Convention Center and
were blocked by police,” Lee said by phone. “Just as I arrived
there, police used pepper spray against the demonstrators.”  Leung, accused by  Henry Tang  of advocating the use of anti-
riot police on protesters in 2003, pledged after the election to
uphold freedom of speech and the rule of law, and to defend the
territory’s rights. Hong Kong, a city with the biggest wealth
gap in  Asia , is due to introduce universal suffrage in 2017.  “They represent the small circle, which we are against,”
said Leung Ting Pong, 23, a graphic designer who joined the
protests. “Those people in the election committee do not
represent the seven million people of Hong Kong.”  Public Discontent  The police public relations branch said in a faxed
statement that pepper spray was used three times as the
protesters first rushed on to Harbour Road and continued to
attempt to cross cordoned areas despite several warnings.  The election was held at the convention, where committee
members including  Li Ka-shing , the city’s richest man, voted
yesterday.  Some of the protesters burnt paper money “offerings” with
Leung’s name inscribed on them, in reference to the Taoist
ritual performed for the deceased. People Power members carried
devices that shot yellow, orange and green plastic rings into
the air to represent the “small-circle” election.  Public discontent with the government has grown in Hong
Kong. Thousands took to the streets March 3 to demand that Chief
Executive Donald Tsang quit after it emerged he had taken trips
on yachts and planes of his tycoon friends. Former Chief
Executive Tung Chee-hwa resigned after half a million people
protested in 2003 against a proposed anti-subversion law they
feared would curtail personal freedoms.  ‘Past Intolerance’  Candidate Henry Tang said March 16 that Leung had suggested
Hong Kong would eventually need to use anti-riot police and tear
gas on protesters in 2003. Leung has repeatedly said he didn’t
make the suggestion during meetings held by Hong Kong’s
executive council.  “C.Y.’s past intolerance and attitude towards media
freedom is worrying, but we won’t give up,” said Mak Yin-ting,
head of the  Hong Kong Journalists Association . “We’ll see if
his actions match up to his words.”  Hong Kong’s  Basic Law , its de facto constitution introduced
after Britain handed over the territory to  China  in 1997,
enshrines the freedoms of speech, association and the rule of
law.  Leung has pledged to build more public housing, increase
land supply and provide tax-breaks to help residents buy their
own homes. He also promised to speed up public projects like
expanding the city railway system and encourage the use of
electric and hybrid cars.  There were about 2,000 protesters outside the venue at the
demonstration’s peak, the police public relations branch officer
Candice Siu said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  