-- Monti Signals Spanish Euro Risk as EU to Bolster Firewall
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-03-26T08:15:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/monti-signals-spanish-euro-risk-as-eu-plans-to-bolster-firewall.html
Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
warned that Spain could reignite the European debt crisis as
euro-area ministers this week prepare a deal to strengthen the
region’s financial firewall.  Monti pointed to Spain’s struggle to control its finances
ahead of a finance ministers meeting in Copenhagen starting on
March 30, where officials will seek agreement to raise a 500
billion-euro ($664 billion) ceiling on bailout funding.  “It doesn’t take much to recreate risks of contagion,”
Monti said during the weekend at a conference in Cernobbio,
Italy. Days after his Cabinet approved a bill to overhaul
Italy’s labor laws, Monti praised Spain’s efforts to loosen work
regulations while advising it to focus on cutting the national
budget. Spain “hasn’t paid enough attention to its public
accounts,” he said.  The euro crisis has eased after the  European Central Bank 
last month boosted liquidity through three-year loans to banks,
while European Union leaders this month sealed a second Greek
bailout package. Italian and German confidence indexes rose
today as Spanish and Italian bonds gained.  Reinforcing Firewalls  EU Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
said he was confident ministers will resolve their differences
on providing more bailout funding for the euro. Speaking
yesterday to reporters in Saariselkae,  Finland , Rehn said that
officials “will take a convincing decision on the reinforcement
of the firewalls.”  Euro-area leaders have established two bailout funds, the
temporary European Financial Stability Facility and the
permanent 500 billion-euro European Stability Mechanism, which
is scheduled to begin operations this year. Under current rules,
unused EFSF funds would be passed on to the ESM, though
disbursement could not exceed the half-trillion limit.  Policy makers are discussing how to add to the funds, for
example by allowing the EFSF and ESM to work concurrently to
make more money available. Keeping sums deployed from the
temporary fund while allowing the ESM to operate at capacity
would bring a total crisis backstop to 692 billion euros.  General Strike  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and her finance minister,
 Wolfgang Schaeuble , have abandoned their opposition to combining
the two funds,  Der Spiegel reported  yesterday, citing unnamed
government officials. The two leaders have agreed that the EFSF
and ESM may be “in operation” for a transitional period, the
magazine reported.  The focus by policy makers and investors has shifted over
recent weeks from  Greece  to Spain, where Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  is struggling to reduce the country’s budget deficit in
the face of a looming recession.  Rajoy faces his first general strike on March 29 as unions
protest against changes to employment laws making it cheaper to
fire workers and cut wages. Three months after coming to power,
he is due to present the 2012 budget on March 30, which is
designed to cut the deficit.  Meanwhile, Rajoy failed to win an outright majority in
elections for  Spain ’s most populous region, Andalusia, last
night. Even though his  People’s Party  took more seats in the
legislature than any other, it fell short of the 55 needed. The
region has been controlled by the Socialists since Spain’s
return to democracy in 1978  The conundrum for European leaders was underscored on March
22, when a report showed that euro-area services and
manufacturing output contracted more than economists forecast.
The drop in March on declining domestic demand added to signs
that the region’s economy is sliding into recession.  Relief From ECB  Leaders struggling to resolve the crisis have been given
some space by the ECB’s three-year loans to banks, made between
December and February. Speaking at the seminar he hosted in
Saariselkae, north of the Arctic Circle, Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  warned that  crisis management  “can’t be outsourced”
to the region’s central bank.  “While more than a trillion euros is not exactly small
change,” the ECB’s loans “have certainly not solved the euro
area’s problems once and for all,” Joachim Fels, chief
economist at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note yesterday.  As he lauded Rajoy’s efforts to loosen rules on employee
dismissals, Monti pushed a bill to overhaul  Italy ’s labor laws
through Cabinet on March 23, facing down opposition from unions
and political allies needed to pass the measure in parliament.  Illustrating the difficulties in establishing consensus for
change, Pier Luigi Bersani, the head of the  Democratic Party  on
whom Monti relies for backing in parliament, has said he will
seek to get the law amended during debate. The CGIL, Italy’s
biggest union, has called a general strike.  The Italian premier, in office since replacing  Silvio Berlusconi  in November, opted not to force through a decree that
would have implemented the measures immediately.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  