-- Orders Probably Picked Up With Spending: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-03-25T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/orders-probably-picked-up-with-spending-u-s-economy-preview.html
Manufacturers in the U.S. probably
received more orders for durable goods in February and consumer
purchases climbed the most in five months, economists said
reports this week will show.  Bookings for long-lasting factory goods rose 3 percent last
month after decreasing 3.7 percent in January, according to
the median estimate of 70 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.
Personal spending increased 0.6 percent last month, boosted in
part by stronger auto sales.  “It’s employment that’s really driving the bus for
spending growth right now,” said  Russell Price , a senior
economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit . “As our
economy expands, it’s going to allow manufacturing to build
right along with it.”  Six months of the strongest job growth since 2006 is
helping sustain incomes and spending, just as companies upgrade
equipment, keeping the nation’s producers at the forefront of
the almost three-year-old expansion. At the same time, higher
transportation costs and slowdowns in Europe and  China  represent
hurdles for manufacturing.  The Commerce Department’s report on March 28 is projected
to show orders for goods meant to last at least three years
climbed for the fourth time in five months, helped by a jump in
demand for commercial aircraft. Boeing Co. received orders for
237 airplanes in February from 150 a month earlier, data from
the Chicago-based company show.  Minus Transportation  Bookings excluding transportation equipment probably
increased 1.7 percent after a 3 percent drop in January,
according to the Bloomberg survey.  Machinery and equipment makers have outperformed the
broader stock market. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Machinery Index has gained 16 percent so far this year, compared
with an 11 percent increase for the  S&P 500 Index .  Auto manufacturing has been powering factory growth. Cars
last month sold at the fastest pace in four years, led by
Chrysler Group LLC and a surprise gain from General Motors Co.
Light-vehicle sales accelerated to a  15 million annual rate , the
strongest since February 2008, according to data from Ward’s
Automotive Group.  Car sales help explain the projected February gain in
Americans’ spending that followed a 0.2 percent increase the
prior month, according to the Bloomberg survey median before the
Commerce Department’s figures on March 30. Personal incomes may
have increased 0.4 percent.  Consumer Confidence  Employment and income gains helped underpin  consumer
confidence  in March. The Conference Board’s release on March 27
may show its index was little changed at 70 this month after
reaching a one-year high of 70.8 in February, the survey median
showed. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final March
index of consumer sentiment slipped to 74.7 from 75.3 the
previous month, according to the survey.  “I believe there is some stability easing back into the
marketplace as consumer confidence moves higher in most parts of
the world,” Mark Parker, president and chief executive officer
of  Nike Inc. (NKE) , said in a March 22 earnings call.  Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike, the world’s largest sporting-
goods company, last week reported third-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates as sales gained in  North America ,
even as its margins shrank.  Higher gasoline prices are restraining sentiment. The price
of a gallon of regular  unleaded gas  was $3.89 as of March 22, up
61 cents since the end of last year, according to AAA, the
nation’s largest automobile association.  Federal Reserve  Federal Reserve  officials said this month that consumer and
business spending are helping drive the world’s largest economy.  “Household spending and business fixed investment have
continued to advance,” members of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said this month in a statement. At the same time, they
said, “the housing sector remains depressed.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of  home prices  in 20 cities
declined 3.8 percent in January from the same month last year
after a 4 percent drop in the 12 months through December,
economists forecast the March 27 data to show.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  