-- Tory Official Quits Over Claim Cameron Access Can Be Bought
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-03-25T12:18:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/party-official-quits-over-claim-access-to-cameron-can-be-bought.html
David Cameron ’s Conservative Party
said it would investigate allegations of cash-for-access after
its co-treasurer was filmed claiming that large donations to the
party would secure meetings with the U.K. prime minister.  Peter Cruddas resigned today after the Sunday Times
newspaper published secretly filmed comments in which he
appeared to offer access to Cameron in exchange for 250,000
pounds ($397,000).  Speaking to reporters posing as wealth fund executives,
Cruddas claimed large donors have previously been invited to
private dinners with Cameron and his wifeSamantha. He said
“things will open up” for anybody willing to make a large
donation, adding, “it will be awesome for your business.”  Cameron described the claims as “completely unacceptable”
and said it was “right” that Cruddas had resigned.  “What happened is completely unacceptable, it shouldn’t
have happened,” Cameron said in televised comments at a Sports
Relief event in Buckinghamshire,  England  today. “It’s quite
right that Peter Cruddas has resigned. I’ll make sure there’s a
proper party enquiry to make sure this doesn’t happen again.”  The Conservative Party made “well over” 5 million pounds
selling private dinners with Cameron to the party’s biggest
donors, in which they can pick up “key bits of information” by
asking him questions, the Sunday Times cited Cruddas as saying.  ‘Disgraceful’  He said that “premier league” donors prepared to give
250,000 pounds a year could lobby Cameron directly and their
views would be “fed in” to the Downing Street policy unit.
There was no point in “scratching around” with donations of
10,000 pounds, he said.  His claims were “utterly disgraceful,” Chief Secretary
to the Treasury  Danny Alexander , a member of the coalition
government’s Liberal Democrat party, told the  BBC ’s Andrew Marr
program. He said such behavior had “no place” in politics.  Alexander said the incident should prompt fresh efforts to
reform the party funding system.  There is a “perception that people who make large
donations, be they wealthy people from the city or trade unions,
have influence,” he said. “They should not have that
influence, nor the perception of that influence.”  Corruption  British lawmakers recommended capping donations to
political parties to curb the perception of corruption after a
2006 police investigation into accusations that the then Prime
Minister  Tony Blair ’s  Labour Party  sold seats in the House of
Lords for financial support. The investigation was the most
serious ever to involve a British prime minister.  The  Conservative Party  said in an e-mailed statement today
that donations “do not buy government policy” and that it will
“urgently investigate” any evidence to the contrary. Labour
called on Cameron to say “exactly what he knew and when” about
any efforts to sell access.  In his resignation statement, Cruddas, founder of CMC
Markets Plc, described his comments as “bluster” and said
there was “no question” of donors gaining undue access to
senior figures.  “Clearly there is no question of donors being able to
influence policy or gain undue access to politicians,” Cruddas
said. “It was categorically not the case that I could offer, or
that David Cameron would consider, any access as a result of a
donation.”  Cruddas will be replaced as the party’s co-treasurer by
 Stanley Fink , a Conservative e-mailed statement said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  