-- Pimco’s Gross Says Fed May ‘Hint’ at QE3 at April Meeting
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-03-26T03:54:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/pimco-s-gross-says-fed-may-hint-at-qe3-at-april-meeting.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said the
 Federal Reserve  will probably signal it plans to arrange a third
round of debt purchases when policy makers meet in April.  The end of tax breaks enacted by President  George W. Bush 
and $1 trillion of mandatory federal budget cuts are raising
concern that declining unemployment will give way to slower
economic growth that requires support from the central bank.
Policy makers under Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  have purchased $2.3
trillion of Treasuries and mortgage debt in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing, known as QE1 and QE2, as they try to
sustain the expansion.  The Fed is “likely to hint” at QE3 at its April 25
gathering, Gross wrote on Twitter.  Central bank policy makers upgraded the outlook for the
U.S. economy at their March 13 meeting, while they reiterated
their pledge to keep  interest rates  near zero until at least
late 2014.  Treasury Returns  The statement helped send Treasuries to a 1.1 percent loss
in March, heading for their steepest monthly decline since
December 2010, based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.
Ten-year  yields  climbed two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, today to 2.26 percent as of 12:53 p.m. in  Tokyo ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Yields have risen from a record low of 1.67 percent on
Sept. 23, yet they are still less than the average for the past
decade of 3.87 percent.  Mortgage bonds are little changed in March, the Bank of
America figures show, on speculation that another round of Fed
purchases will focus on debt backed by home loans to bolster the
housing market.  Pimco’s $252 billion Total Return Fund reduced holdings of
Treasuries last month for the first time since February 2011,
when it cut its stake in the securities to zero.  Gross lowered the proportion of U.S. government securities
in the fund to 37 percent of assets from 38 percent in January,
according to a report on the company’s  website . He raised
mortgages to 52 from 50 percent.  The Total Return Fund earned 5.8 percent for investors over
the past year, beating about half of its competitors, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco, based in Newport Beach,
 California , is a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE. (ALV)   Economic Improvement  U.S. joblessness has fallen to  8.3 percent , the lowest
level in three years, according to the Labor Department. The
Institute for Supply Management’s factory index shows 31 months
of expansion.  Investors are questioning whether the gains can be
sustained with the Bush-era income-tax cuts scheduled to expire
at the end of this year, while $1 trillion in automatic
government spending reductions will start taking effect in
January if Congress doesn’t intervene.  “We’ve seen this story in 2010 and 2011, where it looks
pretty good in the first half and then we have to change our
tune in the second half,” said Robert Tipp, the chief
investment strategist in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at Prudential
Financial Inc., which oversees $300 billion in bonds.  Housing reports last week showed a key part of the  U.S.
economy  remains under pressure. The Commerce Department said
March 23 that new  home sales  fell to a 313,000 annual pace in
February, the slowest since October. Earlier in the week, the
National Association of Realtors said existing-home sales eased
to a 4.59 million rate last month from January’s 4.63 million.  Fed Policy  The central bank is pursuing a maturity-extension program
announced in September to replace $400 billion of short-term
debt in the Fed’s portfolio with longer-term securities. The
program, known as Operation Twist, is scheduled to end in June.  Two Fed district bank presidents said the strengthening
U.S. economy is reducing the need for additional monetary
stimulus.  “As the U.S. economy continues to rebound and repair,”
additional steps “may create an overcommitment to ultra-easy
monetary policy,” St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said in
a speech March 23 in  Hong Kong . Atlanta Fed President  Dennis
Lockhart  said the same day in  Washington  that “we should hold
the  balance sheet  where it is for the time being and watch how
the economy evolves.”  Lockhart votes on monetary policy this year, while Bullard
votes in 2013.  Even with oil above $100 a barrel since the middle of
February, the Fed’s preferred measure of gauging the outlook for
inflation show consumer prices is less than its 10-year average.  The  five-year, five-year  forward breakeven rate, which
projects the pace of price increases starting in 2017, was 2.73
percent last week. The average for the past decade is 2.76
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  