-- Plouffe Says Americans Don’t Want ‘Refight’ on Health Care
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2012-03-25T19:46:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/plouffe-defends-health-care-law-ahead-of-supreme-court-hearings.html
Senior White House adviser  David Plouffe  defended the health care law enacted by President  Barack Obama  as the  Supreme Court  prepares for three days of hearings
to determine the fate of the measure.  “Where the American people are right now is they don’t
want to go refight this battle again,” Plouffe said today on
CNN’s “State of the Union” program. “You ask people, should
we go back to square one? People don’t want to do that.”  The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear arguments this week
in a challenge that pits the Obama administration against 26
states that say Congress overstepped its authority by requiring
Americans to obtain health insurance or pay a penalty. Obama’s
health-care overhaul is shaping up as a prime issue in the
presidential election, as is a Republican plan to cut taxes and
federal spending.  The law signed by Obama in 2010 has been criticized by
Republican presidential candidates, including  Mitt Romney  and
 Rick Santorum , who have said they would repeal it if they win
the November presidential election.  “The important thing right now, what we can control is,
implement this law well, make sure that we continue to try to
educate people about what’s in the law,” Plouffe said in the
interview. “The Supreme Court process will play out.”  Godfather of Mandates  Plouffe, speaking on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” called
Romney the “godfather” of health-care insurance mandates,
referring to the former governor’s role in enacting a law in
 Massachusetts  that resembles the federal plan pushed by Obama.  In an interview today with CBS’s “Face the Nation,”
Santorum echoed Plouffe on that count, calling Romney the
“worst candidate” to campaign against Obama on the issue of
health-care insurance.  “Heck, he created the blueprint for the government
takeover of health care that President Obama followed,”
Santorum, who won yesterday’s Republican presidential primary in
 Louisiana , said.  Romney, who leads in the number of delegates needed to win
the Republican nomination, has said that, while he supported the
individual mandate for the state of Massachusetts, the federal
government shouldn’t impose the requirement in all states.  ‘Rubber Stamp’  Plouffe, in an interview today with ABC’s “This Week,”
said Romney would “rubber stamp” a budget proposal by House
Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  that “showers huge
additional tax cuts on the wealthy.”  On “Fox News Sunday,” Ryan, the architect of the House
budget plan to cut federal spending over 10 years by $5.3
trillion below Obama’s budget, said that Republicans might
consider eliminating popular tax breaks on only the highest
earners.  Those include the home mortgage deduction, which
congressional budget analysts estimate costs the Treasury $100
billion a year, or the exclusion of employer-provided health
insurance from taxable income, which costs $164 billion a year.
Ultimately, those details would have to be decided by the House
Ways and Means Committee.  “Instead of giving those write-offs to people in the top
tax brackets, take those tax shelters away,” Ryan said in the
interview on Fox. “You get more revenue and we can lower
everybody’s tax rate in return.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 mriley17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  