-- Public Pension Fixes Can Fill Gaps and Avoid a Big Ruckus
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-25T23:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/public-pension-fixes-can-fill-gaps-and-avoid-a-big-ruckus-view.html
The hullabaloo over cutting public
employee retirement benefits and collective bargaining rights
has died down, but the pension funding crisis hasn’t. It has
gotten worse.  Experts disagree over the numbers, but  Joshua Rauh , a
Northwestern University finance professor, calculates that
public pensions may be underfunded by $4.4 trillion, up from
$3.1 trillion in 2009. Bloomberg Rankings data show that states
are also falling behind on retiree health care: Of the $627
billion they are projected to owe, almost 96 percent isn’t
financed, up from 95 percent in 2009.  Health-care benefits aren’t usually guaranteed by contract,
but public pensions are. Taxpayers must make good on those
promises, or the promises must be reduced. Either way, the
politics can be toxic, as a pair of Midwestern Republican
governors have discovered. Wisconsin’s  Scott Walker , who spent
much of 2011 trying to limit public workers’ bargaining rights,
could face a recall election in June. And Ohio’s  John Kasich ,
who pushed through a similar measure, saw voters repeal it in
November.  Pension plans are going broke because state and local
governments assumed wildly optimistic investment returns,
allowing them to promise rich retirement benefits without paying
for them. The financial crisis, the recession and agonizingly
slow recovery, and record-low  interest rates  have also depleted
pension funds. And while it wouldn’t be correct to blame public
employees, they and their unions have gone along for decades as
government bosses found it easier to offer a dollar of future
pension benefits than a dollar of wages.  Crowding Out  There are no pain-free solutions, but it’s possible to deal
with public pensions without the Sturm und Drang of 2011. If the
shortfalls aren’t addressed, cities, counties and states will
have to dip into tax collections to pay for pensions, crowding
out much-needed spending for public works, police and fire
departments, schools and other things taxpayers need or want.  The  National Conference of State Legislatures   reported  on
March 14 that, since 2009, 43 states have enacted a soupcon of
reforms, including increasing employee contributions, adding to
the number of years of service before benefits begin, slightly
increasing retirement ages and lengthening the final years of
salaries on which payouts are calculated. Almost all of these
changes affect only new hires.  That’s a relief to existing workers and retirees,
considering that the average annual pension benefit is a not-so-
princely $23,000, according to the Center for Retirement
Research at  Boston College . But it means the pile of unfunded
liabilities remains. Ending abuses, including pension spiking
(piling on overtime hours in the last year of employment to
boost a pension payout) and double-dipping (retiring on a full
pension one day and returning the next as a new hire at the same
salary) helps, but saves only a modest sum. And revoking union
collective bargaining rights is a political sideshow.  The best way the states can whittle down unfunded promises
is by adopting a more accurate measure of inflation to calculate
cost-of-living adjustments. The standard  consumer price index 
overstates inflation because it fails to account for the product
substitutions people make when prices rise. A better index,
called the chained CPI, more closely models actual consumer
behavior and, if applied to current retirees, would allow states
to reap immediate savings.  To stop the growth in future obligations -- those made to
new hires -- states should gradually raise the retirement age to
67 to keep up with advances in  life expectancy , now averaging
more than 78 years.  Hybrid Plans  One of the most promising solutions involves so-called
hybrid pension plans, which encourage or require workers to save
more on their own. Most state and local government workers
belong to a traditional, defined-benefit plan that guarantees a
monthly pension based on salary and years of service. By
contrast, most private-sector employees have defined-
contribution plans such as 401(k)s to which they contribute a
portion of their salary and receive an employer match.  Hybrid plans combine a less-generous traditional pension
with a 401(k)-style plan. Hybrids gradually move public
employers away from traditional pensions, which cost state and
local governments about $3 per hour worked. Private employers
contribute only about 92 cents an hour.  Traditional pensions also lack the flexibility of 401(k)s,
which can be tailored to different levels of salary, job types
and employer matches. True, retirement security would depend
more on how investments have performed, but employers can offset
some of that risk by hiring professional money managers and
educating workers on investment basics, as the private sector
has done for decades.  Indiana has long had a hybrid plan. Since 2005,  Alaska ,
 Georgia ,  Michigan  and  Utah  have adopted one for new hires.  Rhode
Island  alone has a hybrid that requires existing and newly hired
workers to participate in the 401(k)-style plan. Employees must
contribute up to 5 percent of their earnings (depending on
salary), or 9 percent if they are among the one-fourth of
government workers nationally who don’t contribute to Social
Security.  Other states are considering hybrids. California Governor
 Jerry Brown  has recommended a plan, while  Arizona , Kansas and
 Massachusetts  are studying them.  Union Resistance  On March 15, New York Democratic Governor  Andrew Cuomo  won
approval from the state legislature for a basket of pension
reforms. But he scaled back the most contentious piece when
unions put up fierce resistance: a hybrid plan giving new
workers the option of forgoing the traditional pension for a
401(k). Instead, the option will be offered only to a small
slice of new hires earning $75,000 or more and who don’t belong
to a union. Cuomo should have stuck to his guns.  Raising retirement ages, adjusting COLAs and requiring
workers to contribute more may still not be enough to shrink the
mountain of unfunded liabilities. State and local governments
will have to tap taxpayers for the rest. The good news is that
governments have a couple of decades to make the numbers add up.
But if they don’t start now, catching up will get harder and
harder.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 