-- Qantas, China Eastern Plan Cheap Flights for Asia Middle
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-03-26T11:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/qantas-plans-hong-kong-budget-airline-with-china-eastern.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  teamed with
 China  Eastern Airlines Corp. to form a budget carrier in Hong
Kong, the Australian airline’s fourth Asian hub, as it taps
faster growing overseas markets.  The two carriers will invest as much as $198 million in
equally-owned Jetstar Hong Kong, which will begin flights with
three Airbus SAS A320s next year, according to a statement today.
The fleet will grow to 18 planes by 2015, it said.  Qantas Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce will challenge
Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. in Hong Kong as he targets Asian
markets to help turn around unprofitable international
operations. The new venture will let the carrier bolster
services in Greater China, where annual passenger numbers may
double to 800 million by 2020, said  Bruce Buchanan , chief
executive officer of Qantas’s Jetstar Group.  “The opportunity in China is unlimited,” Buchanan said on
a conference call today. “The market potential is huge and
those people are looking for affordable  air travel .”  About 80 cities in Greater China are big enough to support
budget flights and that may climb to about 200 by the end of the
decade, he said. He didn’t elaborate on where Jetstar Hong Kong
will fly. Fares will be half the price of full-service carriers,
according to the statement.  Hong Kong Costs  The new low-fare Hong Kong carrier will have to contend
with high airport charges and wages that have helped limit
budget flights to about 5.5 percent of the local market, among
the lowest levels in the Asia-Pacific region, Citigroup Inc.
analyst Vivian Tao said in a note to investors today.  “Although the low penetration can be viewed as an
opportunity, the high landing, route and staffing costs in Hong
Kong make it really challenging for a low-cost carrier to
succeed,” she said.  No budget carrier has a hub at Hong Kong Airport, which was
used by 54 million passengers last year. Hong Kong Express, an
affiliate of Hong Kong Airlines, has said it will convert to a
low-cost model. Oasis Hong Kong Airlines Ltd., which operated
budget long-haul flights, collapsed in 2008 after racking up
losses of about HK$1 billion ($129 million) in less than two
years.  Profit Forecast  Jetstar Hong Kong will probably make profit in third year
of operation, Liu Shaoyong,  China Eastern (670) ’s chairman, told
reporters in the city today.  “The venture will use the same aircraft model to reduce
maintenance costs and it will focus on boosting non-ticket
sales,” Liu said. “It will also lay the foundation for our
future development in Hong Kong.”  Qantas,  Australia ’s largest carrier, rose 2 percent to
close at A$1.765 in Sydney trading, the biggest gain since March
13. The carrier has risen 21 percent this year, surpassing the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index’s 5.1 percent advance.  China Eastern , the nation’s second-biggest carrier, fell
1.1 percent to close at HK$2.60 in Hong Kong. The Shanghai-based
airline separately said yesterday that net income fell 7.7
percent last year as fuel prices rose.  Cathay Pacific (293)  also
dropped 1.1 percent in Hong Kong trading.  Jetstar Hong Kong will be able to work with the up-coming
Jetstar  Japan  and possibly a future venture in  South Korea , said
 Peter Harbison , chairman of CAPA - Centre for Aviation, which
advises airlines.  “We see that international triangle as very valuable,” he
said. Qantas is “extraordinarily well-positioned.”  JetStar Asia Push  Jetstar’s Japanese venture is due to begin flights later
this year, building on operations in Singapore and  Vietnam .
Qantas has no plans for a Jetstar venture in mainland China,
Joyce told reporters in Hong Kong.  The Australian carrier also plans to set up a premium
airline in  Southeast Asia . That plan has been delayed as long as
three years after the breakdown of talks with  Malaysian Airline
System Bhd. (MAS)  The carrier has no plans for a premium airline with
China Eastern, Joyce said on the conference call.  The new Hong Kong business probably won’t deter Joyce from
pursuing the premium unit, said David Fraser, an analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney.  China’s biggest low-cost carrier, Shanghai-based Spring
Airlines, flies more than 50 routes, according to its website.
The carrier has slowed expansion plans because of a shortage of
pilots and it now expects to have as many as 50 planes by 2015,
Chairman Wang Zhenghua said in July. It had 24 planes then.  Budget flights make up less than 5 percent of the Chinese
aviation market, according to Qantas. That compares with about
half in  Europe , based on Bloomberg Industries data.  Qantas is attempting to turn around international
operations which lost about A$200 million ($209 million) in the
year through June 2011. Joyce is also contending with labor
opposition to restructuring, which prompted him to ground the
carrier’s main fleet last year in order to force a showdown. The
carrier is now in arbitration with two unions after reaching an
agreement with engineers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  