-- Rajoy Seeks Free Hand on Cuts in Regional Vote as Crisis Deepens
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-03-25T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/rajoy-seeks-free-hand-on-cuts-in-regional-vote-as-crisis-deepens.html
Spain ’s most populous region votes
in an election that may give Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy free
rein to enact his deficit-cutting policies and tackle a surge in
the nation’s borrowing costs.  Andalusia, the last region under one-party Socialist
control, votes today as surveys show Rajoy’s  People’s Party  is
the favorite to win the southern state for the first time in
three decades. Results are due shortly after polls close at 8
p.m. Asturias, the fourth-smallest region, also votes.  Victory in Andalusia would leave the PP in control of
regions that account for about 70 percent of the Spanish 
economy , while bolstering Rajoy’s mandate to reorder public
finances. Rajoy, who faces his first general strike on March 29,
is struggling to convince investors he can reduce the deficit
amid a recession, prompting a surge in Spanish  borrowing  costs
last week to the highest in two months.  “Andalusia is a region that has been in the Socialists’
power forever and winning there will be a strong sign the whole
country now supports the government of the People’s Party,”
said Antonio Fatas, an economics professor at the Paris-based
INSEAD business school.  Opinion polls by  El Pais  and  ABC  newspapers predicted an
outright majority on March 18, while a survey by  El Mundo 
indicated it will be the most-voted party while falling short of
a majority. Andalusia, with the highest  unemployment  rate in the
country and the second-lowest output per capita, has been
controlled by the Socialists since Spain’s return to democracy
in 1978.  General Strike Scheduled  If he does win today’s vote, Rajoy won’t have long to savor
his success. The government faces its first general strike on
March 29 as unions protest changes to  labor laws  that make it
cheaper to fire workers and cut wages. Three months after coming
to power, he is due to present the 2012 budget on March 30,
which is designed to cut the  deficit  to 5.3 percent of gross
domestic product this year from 8.5 percent in 2011.  The PP, in power since December, is trying to rein in debt
while the economy suffers its second recession since 2009 and
unemployment exceeds 23 percent. Doubts about the government’s
ability to do so pushed Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond yield to
as high as 5.54 percent on March 23, the most in two months, as
Spain became the focus of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  “Going forward, the picture will remain bleak,” Ricardo
Santos, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London , said in a
note. “Only Greece and  Portugal  will post more negative
economic performances” this year.  Regional Spending  Andalusia, which has an economy about the size of
Ireland’s, has obstructed efforts to curb the nation’s debt
load. It voted against the 1.5 percent budget goal for the
states this year in a meeting of regional finance chiefs and its
deficit last year was more than twice the target of 1.3 percent.
In all, the states had a deficit of 2.94 percent, compared with
3.22 percent in Andalusia.  Regions control about 36 percent of public spending,
including schools and hospitals, and accounted for most of
Spain’s deficit slippage last year. They spend more than a third
of their budget on health, which Moody’s Investors Service says
will probably need to be trimmed for Spain to meet its budget
commitments to the European Union.  Winning Andalusia would make it easier to bring party
discipline to bear on regions’ budget decisions, said  Antonio
Barroso , an analyst at the Eurasia Group in London and a former
Spanish government pollster.  “This political alignment at the different levels of
government gives regional politicians a powerful motivation to
stick to the rules as the party’s structure is highly
centralized and the party elite retains considerable power over
regional leaders,” he said.  If the Socialists, routed in national elections on Nov. 20,
lose Andalusia, they will be left with just one state, the
Basque Country, which they run in a coalition with the PP. Two
small regions, Navarre and the  Canary Islands  are led by
regional parties. Catalonia, which accounts for 20 percent of
Spain’s economy, is governed by Convergencia i Unio, a pro-
business group that received PP backing for its regional budget
this year and often votes with the PP on economic issues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  