-- Yahoo Names New Directors After Dispute With Third Point
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   D a n   H a r t
-- 2012-03-26T22:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/three-new-independent-directors-appointed-to-yahoo-board.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  named three new
independent directors to its board after failing to reach a
compromise with Third Point LLC, which is planning to wage a
proxy fight to install its own slate of nominees.  The new directors include former Fox Broadcasting Network
Chairman Peter Liguori,  American Express Co. (AXP)  Chief Marketing
Officer John Hayes, and Thomas McInerney, who is leaving as
chief financial officer of  IAC/InterActiveCorp (IACI) , Yahoo said
yesterday in a statement.  Yahoo said the board offered to add one of Third Point’s
nominees,  Harry Wilson , and another member that both sides could
agree to. Third Point Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Loeb 
rejected the proposal and refused to back down from the dispute
unless he himself was named a director, Yahoo said. Third Point
said it was “disappointed” in yesterday’s move by Yahoo and
would proceed with its proxy fight.  Yahoo Chief Executive Officer  Scott Thompson , who took
charge in January from  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s PayPal unit, is shaking up
the board amid mounting pressure from shareholders. The
Sunnyvale, California-based company has irked investors in the
past for turning down a $47.5 billion bid from Microsoft Corp.
and losing market share to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc.  “We have appointed a capable and dynamic CEO who is
driving the business towards its next era of success,” Roy Bostock, chairman of the board, said in yesterday’s statement.
“We have reconstituted the board of directors with the right
mix of experience and expertise to help Yahoo build upon its
very strong assets and brand base to take advantage of the
opportunities ahead.”  Third Point Nominees  Third Point, which owns about 5.8 percent of the company,
announced plans this month to seek shareholder votes on its
proposed slate of four new directors, including Loeb.  “Third Point offered several significant compromises to
strike a deal and avoid a proxy contest,” the New York-based
firm said yesterday in a statement. “The board has shown yet
again that they are unable to execute deals that are in the
company’s best interests. Sadly for shareholders -- who will
once more bear the costs -- the consequence of the board’s
refusal to accept  Third Point ’s shareholder-friendly proposals
will be a time-consuming and distracting proxy contest that the
company can ill-afford.”  Costly Fight?  Yahoo reached out to Third Point on the nominees to avoid
the “cost and distraction that inevitably accompanies a proxy
fight,” the company said. Still, the board determined that
other nominees were more qualified than Loeb to be a director,
Yahoo said. “The board remains open to hearing Third Point’s
ideas and to working constructively with Third Point,” the
company said.  Thompson expects the new board members to challenge and
engage him as he works toward a turnaround, he said in an e-
mailed  letter  to employees, dated yesterday, that was included
in a  regulatory filing  today.  “The board and I will not be distracted from doing the
hard work necessary to get Yahoo back on track,” he wrote.
“Together with our new directors, we can all bring Yahoo back
to being the forward-leaning engine of growth and innovation we
all want it to be.”  In February, Yahoo added two directors and announced that
Bostock and three others wouldn’t seek re-election. Those new
board members were Alfred Amoroso, a former International
Business Machines Corp. executive who ran  Rovi Corp. (ROVI)  until last
year, and Maynard Webb, EBay’s ex-chief operating officer.  Yahoo rose 1 percent to $15.54 at the close in  New York .
The shares have declined 3.7 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Hart at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  