-- Republican Contest Is ‘a Clown Show,’ Obama Adviser Says
-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 2012-03-25T16:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/republican-contest-is-a-clown-show-obama-adviser-says.html
The campaign for the Republican
presidential nomination at times resembles “a circus show, a
clown show,” President  Barack Obama ’s senior adviser said
today.  David Plouffe  was responding to criticism by  Newt Gingrich 
and  Rick Santorum  of Obama’s comments on the racially charged
case of Trayvon Martin, the black teenager allegedly killed by a
neighborhood-watch volunteer in  Florida . Santorum accused Obama
of “politicizing” the case; Gingrich said Obama is “dividing
this country up.”  Speaking on CNN’s “State of the Union,” Plouffe said: “I
don’t think there’s very many people in America that would share
that reaction. You know, this Republican primary at some points
has been more of a circus show, a clown show. And those two
comments are really irresponsible. I would consider them
reprehensible.”  Of Gingrich specifically, Plouffe said on ABC’s “This
Week”: “Speaker Gingrich is clearly in the final throes of his
political career.”  On Friday, in response to a question at the end of a Rose
Garden event, Obama said the fatal shooting of Martin struck a
personal chord -- “If I had a son, he’d look like Trayvon,”
said Obama, the father of two daughters -- and he called for a
full investigation by federal, state and local authorities.  Gingrich, speaking later that day on Sean Hannity’s radio
show, said: “What the president said, in a sense, is
disgraceful. Is the president suggesting that if it had been a
white who had been shot, that would be OK because he wouldn’t
look like him? It’s just nonsense, dividing this country up.”  ‘Drive a Wedge’  Santorum, speaking on Hugh Hewitt’s radio show, said:
“This is, again, not what the presidents of the  United States 
do. What the president of the United States should do is try to
bring people together, not use these types of horrible tragic
individual cases to try to drive a wedge in America.”  The  Justice Department  has opened a civil rights probe into
the Feb. 26 slaying of Martin, 17, in Sanford, Florida. The
neighborhood watch volunteer, George Zimmerman, has told police
that he shot Martin in self-defense.  A Florida law known as Stand Your Ground gives someone who
feels threatened greater latitude to use deadly force outside a
home.  Public Safety  Asked about the law on CNN, Florida Governor  Rick Scott 
said, “You want to make sure everybody feels comfortable with
public safety in our state. And so as you know, I put together a
 task force  led by my lieutenant governor, who’s African-
American, and I’m going to have different elected officials
appoint individuals, but we’ll look at all of it.”  Senator Charles Schumer today called on the Justice
Department to investigate whether the Stand Your Ground laws
“are creating more violence than they are preventing.”  Fourteen Democrats on the U.S. House Judiciary Committee
sent a letter last week to Attorney General Eric Holder asking
that he explore the applicability of the hate-crime statute and
other federal laws.  The Florida shooting occurred when Martin was walking
through a residential neighborhood after buying iced tea and
Skittles at a convenience store, according to an attorney for
his family, Benjamin Crump.  Zimmerman was identified as a white male in a Feb. 27
Sanford Police Department report posted on the city’s website.
His father, Robert Zimmerman, described him as “a Spanish
speaking minority” in a March 15 letter to the Orlando
Sentinel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  