-- Santorum Wins in Louisiana as Romney Struggles in South
-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n   a n d   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-03-25T15:09:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/santorum-wins-republican-primary-in-louisiana-ap-projects-1-.html
Republican presidential candidate
 Rick Santorum  won Louisiana’s primary, giving him another
victory in a region where  Mitt Romney , the front-runner for the
nomination, has struggled.  Yesterday’s results offer a boost to Santorum and highlight
again the trouble Romney has had connecting with voters in the
southern part of the U.S., where many are focused on social
issues such as abortion. The vote also puts greater pressure on
Romney to thwart Santorum in Wisconsin, the next major primary.  “Even though a lot of folks are saying this race is over,
people in Louisiana said no, it’s not,” Santorum said today on
the CBS program “Face the Nation.”  Even with his troubles with Southern voters, Romney is on
pace to claim his party’s nomination. Going into the  Louisiana 
vote, the former Massachusetts governor had 563 of the 1,144
delegates needed to win, compared with 263 for Santorum, 135 for
former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and 50 for U.S.
Representative Ron Paul of  Texas , according to the AP.  “The bad news for Santorum is a lot of these Southern
primaries have come and gone,” said William Mayer, a political
science professor at  Northeastern University  in  Boston .  Final Results  With all precincts reporting, Santorum had 49 percent of
the vote, according to the  Associated Press . Romney had 27
percent, Gingrich 16 percent and Paul 6 percent.  Today Santorum was in Wisconsin, which holds its Republican
primary on April 3. Speaking on CBS, Santorum said he is behind
in the latest polls there and was being heavily out-spent in
television advertising by the Romney campaign and its allies.
Even if he doesn’t grab the majority of  Wisconsin ’s 42
delegates, Santorum said his campaign will remain competitive as
the Republican primary fight continues through the spring.  “I don’t agree with the delegate math that the Romney
campaign is putting out there,” Santorum said on the program,
which he taped while campaigning in  Green Bay . “I think we’re
in much, much better shape than the numbers that are out there
suggest.”  Santorum said that, while Romney’s campaign has designated
both Florida and Arizona as ‘winner take all’ states, no state
with a primary before April 1 can deliver all their delegates to
a single candidate.  Delegate Math  “You’re looking at probably 50 or more delegates that
Governor Romney has that will be taken away from him and
proportioned between me and mostly Congressman Gingrich,”
Santorum said today.  In the Louisiana primary, 20 of the state’s 46 delegates
were at stake; most of the rest will be allocated at a state
convention on June 2. To qualify for a share of the delegates, a
candidate had to get at least 25 percent of the primary vote.  “This is clearly still an open race,” Gingrich said in a
statement released by his campaign last night. He vowed to carry
his campaign on to the Republican nominating convention.  Santorum’s campaign, in an e-mailed statement, called the
results “vindication” for the conservative message put forward
by the former U.S. senator from  Pennsylvania , and rejected calls
to “fall in line” behind Romney.  Santorum won among voters in all income brackets except for
those making more than $200,000 a year, according to exit polls
cited by ABC News. While there were fewer evangelicals in
Louisiana than in other southern states that have voted,
Santorum won them by a wide margin and also dominated among
Catholics, ABC said.  Beating Obama  A plurality of the voters said Romney would have the best
chance to beat President  Barack Obama  in the general election,
though his margin over Santorum on that question was smaller
than in past races, ABC said.  Santorum, 53, has posed the biggest obstacle in the
Republican race to Romney, 65, who from the start has had
organizational and financial advantages over his rivals.
Santorum’s 11 victories in the race include the leadoff Iowa
caucuses and contests in  Alabama , Mississippi, Oklahoma and
Tennessee.  Santorum, though, has been unable to defeat Romney in large
Midwestern states. After Romney scored narrow wins in Ohio and
 Michigan , his 12-percentage-point victory in the March 20
Illinois primary spurred new calls from some party leaders for
Santorum to withdraw. And it prompted former Florida Governor
Jeb Bush, the brother and son of former presidents, to endorse
Romney and call for Republicans to unite behind him.  Romney has won 20 nomination contests in states or U.S.
territories.  ‘Turning Point’  Santorum spent most of yesterday in Wisconsin, which “is
going to be shaping up to maybe be the turning point in this
race” he said in  Milwaukee . “I suspect that Wisconsin may be
the inflection point.”  Maryland  and Washington D.C. also hold primaries on April
3, with Romney favored to win both.  Romney campaigned in Louisiana on March 23 and then flew to
 La Jolla ,  California , where he owns a vacation home, to prepare
for several days of fundraising next week.  Romney’s Illinois win had been overshadowed by a misstep by
one of his top advisers,  Eric Fehrnstrom , who suggested his
candidate would get a fresh start on framing policy positions if
he wins the nomination. Fehrnstrom likened the situation to a
child’s toy that allows drawings to be easily erased.  ‘Reset Button’  “You hit a reset button for the fall campaign,”
Fehrnstrom told  CNN  on March 21. “Everything changes. It’s
almost like an Etch A Sketch. You can kind of shake it up and we
start all over again.”  Romney’s opponents seized on the comments, saying they
validated claims that Romney switches sides on issues and that
his commitment to conservative positions is in doubt. Again
yesterday, Santorum used the toy as a prop in Wisconsin.  “My public policy isn’t written on an Etch A Sketch,” he
said. “It’s written on my heart because I’m a conservative.”  The Louisiana race marked one of the few times Romney and
an independent political action committee supporting him didn’t
overwhelm the opposition in spending on commercials.  Restore Our Future, the so-called super-PAC backing Romney,
put up 1,153 ads on Louisiana broadcast television stations
through March 22, according to New York-based Kantar Media’s
CMAG, which tracks advertising. It paid an estimated $667,990 to
air the spots. Romney’s campaign didn’t air broadcast ads.  Santorum’s campaign and the Red White and Blue Fund, a
super-PAC backing his candidacy, together supplied 1,108 ads on
broadcast television, at an estimated cost of $457,070,
according to CMAG. Of the 1,108 ads, 978 came from the super-
PAC, or 88 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  