-- Sinopec to Boost Oil, Gas Output to Counter Refining Losses
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-03-26T09:25:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/sinopec-2011-profit-misses-estimates-on-crude-refining-losses.html
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,
 Asia ’s biggest refiner, will ramp up crude production and
develop natural gas fields to counter losses from selling diesel
and gasoline at state-mandated prices.  Sinopec, as  China  Petroleum is known, plans to boost oil
production in West China and increase exploration for
unconventional resources including gas from shale formations,
the Beijing-based company said yesterday as fourth-quarter
profit dropped 23 percent, missing estimates.  China, which controls oil-product prices to curb inflation,
raised tariffs by as much as 7.1 percent last year, lagging
behind the 20 percent surge in New York crude futures. Fu Chengyu, who became chairman of Sinopec’s parent in April, led
the group to  bid  for $9.3 billion in overseas oil and gas assets
to diversify from unprofitable fuel making.  “Strategically, Fu wanted to get more balance between
downstream and upstream parts of the company, resembling much
closely that of Exxon Mobil Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc,”
said  Neil Beveridge , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. “Shale gas clearly presents a big opportunity.
The important thing to remember is shale gas will only pay in
the longer term.”  Production of crude and gas rose 1.6 percent to 407.9
million barrels of oil equivalent last year, Sinopec said. While
crude output fell 1.9 percent to 321.7 million barrels, gas
production jumped 17 percent to 517.1 billion cubic feet (14.6
billion cubic meters).  China, estimated by the U.S. Energy Information
Administration to hold the world’s largest reserves of shale
gas, aims to produce 6.5 billion cubic meters of the fuel
annually by 2015 and between 60 billion and 100 billion by the
end of 2020.  Shale Gas  “Unconventional oil and gas will be the main sources of
growth for Sinopec’s upstream business,” Fu said at a media
briefing in Hong Kong today. “Sinopec aims to produce at least
2 billion cubic meters of unconventional oil and gas by 2015.”  China Petrochemical Corp., Sinopec’s parent, said in
January it has started exploring for shale gas in Anhui province
with China National Offshore Oil Corp., the state-controlled
parent of  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  Unit Sinopec and Henan Provincial Coal Seam
Gas Development and Utilization Co. won the rights to explore
two areas in the country’s first shale-gas auction in June.  Sinopec has advanced 14 percent in Hong Kong trading in the
past year, compared with the 10 percent decline in the benchmark
 Hang Seng Index . The  stock  rose 1.5 percent to HK$8.77 today.  Capital Spending  The company plans to increase crude output to 326.5 million
barrels in 2012 and boost gas production to 582.6 billion cubic
feet this year, according to the statement.  Capital spending  on exploration and production will reach
78.2 billion yuan ($12.4 billion) this year as Sinopec develops
oil blocks, including Shengli, and gas fields such as Yuanba and
Ordos, according to the earnings statement. Spending on refining
will be 36.8 billion yuan, mainly to upgrade plants.  “Since its capex is largely unchanged, the only way to
boost upstream assets this year will be through asset injection
from its parent,” Beveridge said.  Sinopec plans to acquire overseas oil and gas assets owned
by its parent when appropriate, the refiner said on March 14.
The group is still evaluating the assets that may be acquired by
the unit, Fu said.  In November, its parent, known as Sinopec Group, agreed to
pay $5.2 billion for a stake in a unit of  Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP) 
to explore for oil off  Brazil ’s coast, China’s biggest overseas
purchase in 2011. In 2010, the group paid $7.1 billion for a 40
percent stake in  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ’s Brazilian unit.  Refining Margins  Fourth-quarter profit at Sinopec slumped to 11.8 billion
yuan, according to calculations made by subtracting nine-month
earnings from the 2011 net income. That missed the 12.4 billion-
yuan mean estimate of seven analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
Full-year net income rose 2 percent to 73.2 billion yuan.  Sinopec didn’t provide fourth-quarter data in its earnings
statement.  Huang Wensheng , the company’s Beijing-based
spokesman, declined to comment on the derived figure.  Sinopec said its refining division posted a full-year
operating loss of 37.6 billion yuan, compared with a profit of
14.9 billion yuan in 2010.  Crude futures averaged $95.10 a barrel in  New York  last
year, compared with $79.56 in 2010. The company aims to cut
crude procurement costs and reduce storage and transportation
expenses this year, according to the statement.  Fuel Tariffs  The government has increased fuel tariffs twice so far this
year, after consumer prices rose 3.2 percent in February from a
year earlier, the least since June 2010. China delayed price
adjustments last year to cushion the impact on inflation, which
exceeded its 4 percent annual target every month.  Sinopec boosted oil processing volumes by 3 percent last
year to 217.4 million metric tons. The company expects to refine
225 million tons of crude this year, according to the statement.  The company also plans to build refineries and oil-storage
bases overseas, President Wang Tianpu said at the briefing.
Sinopec Group signed an agreement with Saudi Arabian Oil Co. in
January to develop a 400,000 barrel-a-day oil-processing plant
in  Saudi Arabia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  