-- Spain PP Misses Majority in Andalusia, Undermining Budget
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-03-26T15:57:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/spain-s-pp-falls-short-of-majority-in-andalusia-90-counted.html
Spain’s ruling  People’s Party 
failed to dislodge the Socialists in Andalusian elections,
undermining Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  as he seeks to cut the
deficit and tackle a new surge in borrowing costs.  The PP won 50 seats in the 109-strong regional assembly
while the Socialists, who have ruled the southern state since
1978, secured 47 seats. The Socialists signaled they aimed to
remain in power through a coalition and would likely pair up
with the United Left, a traditional ally that won 12 seats.  The unexpected result may weaken Rajoy just as he faces
rising pressure from European colleagues to reorder public
finances and regain investor confidence. With the election
behind him, Rajoy now has to focus on facing down a general
strike and presenting the 2012 budget this week, three months
after coming to power.  Delaying the spending plan until after the vote in  Spain ’s
most populous region was a gamble that didn’t pay off, Antonio Garcia Pascual, chief southern European economist at  Barclays
Capital , said by telephone from  London  today.  “They paid a high price,” Garcia Pascual said. “They got
on the wrong side of European partners and the market, so now
they have to swallow the pain, deliver a big budget and follow
through,” he said.  Monti Comments  Doubts about the government’s ability to rein in spending
pushed Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond yield as high as 5.54
percent last week, the most in two months. The yield fell to
5.33 percent at 5:30 p.m. in Madrid, compared with 5.37 percent
on March 23.  Citing the increase in yields, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said during the weekend that Spain risks reigniting the
debt crisis. While praising Rajoy’s labor overhaul, he urged the
Spanish administration to focus on public finances. Rajoy
pledged today to present a “very austere” budget.  Even as the nation continues to operate on last year’s
budget, the PP has started to implement 15 billion euros ($20
billion) of spending cuts and tax hikes. Rajoy has made it
easier for companies to cut wages and fire staff, prompting
unions to call a general strike for March 29.  “There’s probably a link between the Andalusian election
and the general strike -- it could encourage people who wouldn’t
otherwise have taken part to do so,” Alejandro Quiroga, a
political scientist at Newcastle University in  England , said by
telephone today.  Budget Plan  A day after the first walkout against the PP, Rajoy will
present the 2012  budget , designed to cut the deficit to 5.3
percent of gross domestic product this year from 8.5 percent,
even with the economy in a recession and unemployment exceeding
23 percent.  Losing Andalusia, which has Spain’s third-largest regional
economy and highest  jobless  rate, may make it more difficult to
meet the deficit goal. The Socialist administration in
Andalusia, which could prolong its 34 years in power through a
coalition with the United Left, has opposed the central
government’s deficit proposals, voting against them in a meeting
of regional finance chiefs this month.  “Andalusia is important in terms of financing and it is
going to raise its voice clearly in meetings between regions,”
Ismael Crespo, a political scientist at the Fundacion Ortega-
Maranon research institute in  Madrid  and former head of the
state polling unit, said in an interview by telephone. “It’s
going to be a resounding voice and that’s important.”  Regions control about 36 percent of public spending,
including health and education, and accounted for most of
Spain’s fiscal slippage last year. The PP still controls 11 of
the 17 regions and Rajoy has the largest majority in the
national Parliament of any Spanish leader in three decades.  The Andalusian vote marked a victory for United Left, a
group that includes communists, as it doubled its representation
to 12 seats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  