-- St. Jude’s Frayed Heart Wires May Have More Risky Defects
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-25T16:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/st-jude-s-frayed-heart-wires-may-carry-more-damage-study-finds.html
Recalled  St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) 
wires, still in use to connect life-saving defibrillators to the
hearts of 79,000 patients, had multiple defects that led to
melted conductors, electrical abnormalities and shocks, a study
found.  St. Jude stopped selling its Riata wires in December, 2010,
and recalled them last year on reports they could break through
their insulation. Surgery to remove the leads may present higher
risks than keeping them in, U.S. regulators have said.  A study of 105 reports on failed wires found that two-
thirds had multiple defects, often up and down their length. The
wires can produce noise, like static on a television set, which
may result in unnecessary shocks or reduce the energy needed to
stimulate the heart, according to the study reported today at
the American College of Cardiology meeting in  Chicago .  “The problem with this whole defect is there is no easy
way to pick it up until an event happens,” said Robert Hauser,
the Minneapolis Heart Institute cardiologist who authored the
report, in a telephone interview. “It’s an all or nothing
situation. We are trying to figure out how to manage these
patients, or a way to monitor them safely and effectively.”  A separate analysis from researchers in  Northern Ireland 
presented at the meeting found 2.6 percent of patients with the
leads develop protruding wires each year, and 19 percent of
patients have the complication.  Mark Carlson, chief medical officer for  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-base St. Jude, said the extruding wires have another
coating of insulation and most still work properly.  Company Study  The company is conducting a clinical trial with more than
500 patients to determine how frequently the problem occurs and
what happens to the wires over time, Carlson said in an
interview at the meeting.  The appearance of a protruding wire shouldn’t be cause for
alarm or an overreaction, Carlson said. Among the devices
returned to St. Jude because of electrical abnormalities that
had protruding wires, the cables still functioned normally 85
percent of the time. Twelve percent had another abnormality that
was likely responsible for the device’s breakdown, he said.  “Seeing this does not mean an electrical malfunction,” he
said in an interview. “This is the opposite of a picture is
worth a thousand words. We still need to focus on the electrical
function of the lead.”  Cardiac defibrillators are  devices  about the size of a deck
of cards that are implanted in the chest and connected to the
heart via wires, called leads. They are used to shock the heart
back into a normal rhythm if it starts beating erratically or
stops entirely. They are typically used in patients who have
survived a cardiac arrest or have dangerous heart rhythms.  Next Generation Wires  One risk for St. Jude is that doctors will stop using the
company’s next generation Durata leads because of concerns
stemming from the Riata findings, said Raj Denhoy, an analyst
with Jefferies & Co. in  New York . While there are no reports of
similar failures with Durata, that may not stop physicians from
shying away from it, he wrote in a note to investors.  “This thesis doesn’t require a smoking gun on Durata, and
as the mechanism of failure is likely time dependent, it may
take a year or more to see a higher failure rate in this newer
lead,” he wrote in a March 21 note to investors. “We believe
clinicians will increasingly become unwilling to take the chance
that the Durata could fail at a higher rate over time.”  Researchers have speculated that the movement of the Riata
wires within the insulated cord frays the coating and allows
them to break free.  Flexing Issue  Hauser theorizes that once the wire is exposed, it starts
to flex and causes additional damage that worsens over time. The
most damage may come in the heart, where the flexing is
greatest, he said. The silicone coating may also creep away from
pressure points over time, thinning the insulation, he said.  “This is the most difficult and challenging device problem
I’ve seen in 40 years,” Hauser said. “It’s a very unique
failure mode. It’s never been seen before in a defibrillator or
pacemaker lead. And it’s very troubling because no one knows
what the natural history of this will be.”  The study was funded by the Minneapolis Heart Foundation
and  Abbott Northwestern Hospital Foundation .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  