-- Supreme Court Should Heed Economic Sense on Health Care
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-03-25T23:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/supreme-court-should-heed-economic-sense-on-health-care.html
When the sun hits the brilliant
white marble of the  Supreme Court  building on a clear spring
day, it is so bright you can’t look at it. Thus illuminated, the
court becomes the sun: the epicenter of the Washington world.  It is exceedingly rare for the Supreme Court actually to be
at the center of events in government. But starting on Monday,
for a few days, it will be.  The signature accomplishment of Barack Obama’s
administration is on the line. To strike down the  Affordable
Care Act , the court would hamsg marve to announce that mandatory
insurance coverage is, quite literally, beyond the power of the
government.  In economic terms, that would mean saying that universal
health care in the U.S. can’t be achieved except through a
single-payer system administered entirely by the government,
which in political terms seems essentially impossible. If the
mandatory coverage provision goes, so does the whole program.  Obama’s legal team has embraced this all-or-nothing
approach, and for good reason. They have told the court that
mandatory coverage is not “severable” from the rest of the
law. If the court holds that the government cannot require you
to be covered or pay a fine, guaranteed issue of coverage to all
comers, the core of the law, will cease to operate.  The reasoning behind this strategy is the common sense of
economics. We each have better information about the state of
our own health than the insurance company. If the price of
insurance reflects the average health of the population, the
healthiest people are most likely to turn down coverage. As a
result of this adverse selection,  economists have shown , the
system can unravel. This would leave a large section of the
population without insurance, even though they would benefit
from coverage by a greater amount than it would cost to provide
it for them.  Health insurance, it turns out, presents a classic case of
market failure. Without government intervention to require
universal health insurance coverage -- a good that many people
want and are willing to pay for -- it will not be available to
all.  The Obama legal team, therefore, does not want the Supreme
Court to hide behind the fig leaf of saying that it has only
struck down part of the plan if it strikes down mandatory
coverage. Mandatory coverage is the linchpin of the health-care
bill, plain and simple. Getting it past Congress was the most
significant domestic policy accomplishment not only of this
presidency, but also of any presidency since the Great Society
programs of  Lyndon Johnson .  Expanded Regulatory Power  The economic nature of the mandatory care provision goes to
the heart of the arguments that the Supreme Court will hear for
the next three days. The Constitution expressly gives Congress
the authority to regulate commerce between the states.  Everyone agrees that this power has expanded over the last
two centuries. Its high point was reached during the era of the
New Deal, when the court held that the government could regulate
a farmer’s production of wheat for personal use, because his
doing so substituted for wheat purchased from others and thus
affected the grain market.  Does the mandatory coverage provision similarly affect
economic outcomes? Clearly -- it fundamentally determines the
economic structure of health insurance. The health-care bill is
a classic instance of government intervention to repair market
failure and provide a public good through private means.  The use of regulated private enterprise to produce a public
good is precisely characteristic of the Obama administration’s
ideological vision. The social programs of the past largely
provided the good directly -- think Social Security or welfare
benefits. Sometimes, as with Medicare and Medicaid, the
government provided the good of insurance without providing the
end product of the health care itself. Obama’s health-care plan
is then just one step further removed from the direct public
provision of services, because it essentially requires the
creation of private insurance pools.  What, then, are the arguments to strike down the law? They
turn on the claim that there is something new and troubling
about requiring citizens to pay a fine for having failed to do
something. Inaction, rather than action, results in the penalty.
To avoid this argument, Obama could (and perhaps should) simply
have called the mandatory coverage fee a tax rather than a fine.
That would have made it much more difficult to claim that the
law was penalizing inaction. But for obvious political reasons,
Congress and the president were unprepared to say that they were
creating a new tax. Constitutional salvation might well have
been political damnation.  Skip the Semantics  Nevertheless, the court ought to skip the political
semantics and treat the fee as the tax which, in essence, it
really is. The court is capable of such common sense: Last week,
Justice  Anthony Kennedy  wrote in a landmark opinion that our
criminal justice system is today a system of plea bargains, not
a system of trials. That significant decision only came about
because he and four other justices described the world the way
it really is. The same spirit should pervade this week’s oral
argument. Economic reality determined the structure of the
health-care bill. Economic reality should determine that it is
constitutional.  If Kennedy -- once again as the swing voter -- upholds the
Affordable Care Act, his decision will join last week’s as
further evidence that he has become a historically important
liberal justice. If that is a bridge too far for him, he can
still save the law -- at least for now -- by choosing to
understand the mandatory fee as a tax. An obscure law, the Tax
Injunction Act, says that tax cases cannot be litigated until
someone has actually been penalized by the government. Several
appellate judges who considered the health-care case ruled that
they could not proceed because no one had yet been fined under
the law.  If Kennedy wants to avoid striking down the law, but is
unprepared to uphold it, he might well follow this line of
thinking. Other justices, to his left and to his right, might
well join him. That might not be a perfect result -- but it
would still be a win for common sense.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more online opinion from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 