-- Syrian Army Uses Human Shields in Combat, Rights Group Says
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-03-25T14:30:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/syrian-army-uses-civilians-as-human-shields-rights-group-says.html
The Syrian army has used civilians
as human shields during arrest and combat operations in rebel-
held towns and villages,  Human Rights Watch  said.  Witnesses from al-Janoudyah, Kafr Nabl, Kafr Rouma and Ayn
Larouz in Idlib governorate in northern  Syria  said they saw the
army and pro-government men force people to march in front of
soldiers during an offensive this month to take control of those
areas, the  New York-based rights group  said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The Syrian army should immediately stop this abhorrent
practice,” said Ole Solvang, emergencies researcher at the
group.  More than 8,000 people have been killed since unrest began
in Syria a year ago, according to United Nations estimates.
President  Barack Obama  and Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  discussed today ways to press President Bashar al-Assad
to step aside, including non-lethal assistance to the opposition
and getting Iran to stop supporting the regime.  Obama said he and Erdogan are “very much in agreement” on
the need for a process to transition to a “legitimate
government” in Syria. Erdogan, through a translator, said it
was unacceptable to stand by as onlookers and that more needed
to be done to protect Syrians within the framework of
international law.  Peace Efforts  Thirty people were killed today, the Local Coordination
Committees, an opposition group, said. Government forces killed
31 civilians in fighting yesterday as they conducted raids and
shelled cities, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights said in an e-mailed statement.  International envoy  Kofi Annan , who’s leading efforts to
broker peace in Syria, visited Moscow today for talks with
Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  and Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov . Annan visits  China  next week to discuss efforts to end
to the crisis, the  Associated Press  reported yesterday, citing
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei.  European Union governments tightened sanctions on Syria on
March 23 by extending a travel ban and asset freeze to cover
Asma al-Assad, the president’s wife. The banned list now numbers
126 people and 41 Syrian companies and organizations.  Three witnesses interviewed by  Human Rights Watch  said that
government forces placed children on tanks and inside security
buses when they entered Ayn Larouz on March 10. Abdullah, a
resident of Kafr Nabl, told the rights group that the army
forced him and several others to walk in front of their armored
personnel carriers when they were conducting a search for wanted
opposition activists on March 2.  Human Rights Watch  said
Abdullah asked that his real name not be used for fear of
reprisals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  