-- Killings Raise U.S. Challenge Among South Afghanistan Tri
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-03-26T12:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/u-s-pays-kandahar-rampage-compensation-official-says.html
Public anger remains intense after
a U.S. soldier killed 16 villagers in southern  Afghanistan , and
may still spark a backlash against American forces, the governor
of the south’s most populous province and tribal elders say.  While U.S. officers in Kandahar province have sought to
forestall revenge attacks on their forces by offering apologies
and compensation to the families of those killed, ethnic
Pashtuns of Afghanistan’s south may be motivated by the massacre
to attack American forces and their international allies, said
Governor Tooryalai Wesa. “People throughout Kandahar may take
violent action if they feel justice is not being restored,”
Wesa said in an interview at his office today.  An Afghan soldier west of Kandahar, in the adjacent
province of Helmand, today shot dead two British troops of the
U.S.-led  International Security Assistance Force , or  ISAF ,
Afghan army General Sayed Malook said in a phone interview. The
attack was the first by a member of the Afghan security forces
on their international partners since the March 11 shootings.  The attack on village homes in Panjwai, for which Army
Staff Sergeant Robert Bales was charged last week, has escalated
tension between the U.S. and Afghan governments, and added to
election-year pressure on President  Barack Obama  for a quick
U.S. exit from the 10-year-old war with Taliban militants.  The U.S. military charged Bales with 17 counts of murder in
farming villages around Camp Belambay, about 30 kilometers (20
miles) southwest of Kandahar city. While village residents and
Afghan officials have counted 16 dead, the U.S. charges reflect
that one of the women killed was pregnant, the New York Times
reported today, citing Kandahar’s police chief.  War’s Core  Wesa, about 61, is a portly Afghan-Canadian agriculture
specialist, native to Kandahar. After studies in the U.S. and
 Canada , he worked as a university teacher in British Columbia
until returning to Afghanistan after the fall of the Taliban.
President  Hamid Karzai  named him governor in 2008.  For two weeks, Wesa’s days have been dominated by meetings
with survivors of the Panjwai attack, angry tribal leaders, U.S.
military officers and officials of Karzai’s government. “This
violence has affected every human being,” especially in
Afghanistan’s Pashtun south, which is the core of the war zone,
Wesa said. “We have had other violence against innocent people
-- even the aerial bombing of wedding parties -- but this attack
on these villagers was something really different and
inhumane,” he said.  The renewed tension with U.S. forces will not affect plans
for ISAF to hand over control of Kandahar city, Afghanistan’s
second-largest, to Afghan forces within three months, Wesa said.  Compensation Payments  Most of the victims at Panjwai belonged to the Alokozai
tribe, one of the region’s main Pashtun clans. “These killings
may lead some local people to begin resisting the Americans in
the same way the Taliban resist them,” and such resistance may
spread to other Alokozai areas, said Dad Muhammad, 46, a local
Alokozai elder in Panjwai.  The Alokozais dominate the populations of what in recent
years have been some of the most heavily contested regions of
Afghanistan’s south, such as Panjwai and the district of Sangin,
in Helmand province.  U.S. military officers from ISAF’s southern regional
headquarters met relatives of those attacked in Wesa’s office
March 24 to seek reconciliation, Wesa said. He declined to
comment on a statement by another Afghan official at the meeting
that the officers paid the relatives about $50,000 for each
person killed and about $10,000 for each one wounded.  Single Soldier  “The compensation was on behalf of America’s government
and was meant to ease the anger of these victims and encourage
them not to take any violent actions” in revenge, said the
other official, Agha Lalai Dastgiri, an elder from one of the
two villages hit in the attack. Pashtun traditions call on male
relatives to avenge the killing of family members.  While restitution payments and formal apologies by the
Americans may ease the pressure for revenge attacks, they may
not be enough to prevent them entirely, said Dastgiri, a member
of the province’s elected governing council.  Afghans, including relatives of those killed and Karzai,
have expressed doubts at the U.S. military’s assertion that the
attacks on three homes in two villages were committed by a
single soldier without help from others. Dastgiri said the
compensation payments had not eased the families’ insistence on
a full investigation that includes the possibility of others
being prosecuted.  “The victims thanked the U.S. officials, but they told the
Americans that money is not enough, and that they want the
perpetrators to be prosecuted as soon as possible and to receive
the death penalty,” he said.  The U.S.-led coalition force in Afghanistan declined to
comment on the reported payments. When such compensation efforts
are made, “it is usually a matter of agreement that the terms
of the settlement remain confidential,” ISAF said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kandahar at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  