-- Hungarian Market Collapses After Forex Loans Debacle
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-03-26T08:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/hungarian-market-collapses-after-forex-loans-debacle-mortgages.html
Erzsebet Zolyom counted on a quick
sale of the two-bedroom apartment in downtown Budapest she
inherited last May to ease her financial troubles. Instead, it’s
put her deeper in the hole.  After a costly renovation and a parade of viewers, Zolyom
still can’t sell the 87-square-meter (936-square-foot) property,
even though she has slashed the price by almost a fifth to 23
million forint ($104,000).  “I thought it’d be sold in the blink of an eye,” the 47-
year-old geography teacher said. “I can see now how naïve I
was. It feels like a cruel joke by fate.”  Hungary ’s residential real-estate industry ground to a halt
after foreign-currency mortgages, which fueled a boom before
they were banned in 2010, saddled homeowners with ballooning
repayments when the forint sank to a record and prompted buyers
to flee the market. The slump in demand forced home  construction 
to fall last year to the lowest level since the government
started collecting data in 1930 as Hungarian banks booked
hundreds of billions of forint in losses.  Real-estate transactions fell to 90,000 in 2011 from
270,000 at the market’s peak in 2003, the year before Hungary
and seven other former communist countries joined the European
Union, Budapest-based OTP Mortgage Bank estimates.  Since 2008,  home prices  have dropped by an average 15
percent, according to the lender. If inflation is stripped out,
prices sank 30 percent in the four years through 2011, the  Royal
Institute of Chartered Surveyors  said in February.  Construction Slump  The number of homes built in Hungary last year fell 39
percent from 2010 to 12,655, fewer than in the slumps between
the two World Wars and at the beginning of the Communist era of
the 1940s and 1950s, state statistician Erika Csetenyi said.
 Construction permits  dropped 28 percent last year to the lowest
number since at least 1990, a year after communism ended, she
said.  “There’s a stalemate in the real-estate market and we need
to deploy all possible tools to get things started,” said
Daniel Gyuris, the head of the mortgage unit at the country’s
largest lender,  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP)  “Current market conditions were
spawned by people’s fear of  unemployment  and the string of
negative economic news coupled with a freeze in lending as a
result of extreme  risk aversion .”  The real-estate market plunge outpaced the contraction in
other countries in the region. New  home construction  in  Poland 
shrank 8 percent in the first nine months of last year, compared
with 38 percent in Hungary.  Economic Decline  The construction industry shrank for a sixth consecutive
year in 2011, shaving off 0.1 percentage point from last year’s
1.7 percent economic growth rate, according to statistics office
data. Construction slumped 7.6 percent from a year earlier in
2011 and declined 1.5 percent in January.  The  economy  is set to contract 0.6 percent this year,
according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. That compares with growth of 2.5 percent this year
for Poland and 1.2 percent in neighboring  Slovakia , according to
the European Commission’s forecasts released in February.  The jobless rate will probably rise above the 10.7 percent
level at the end of last year, the central bank said in
December, undermining Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s goal to
combat  unemployment  and deliver on a campaign pledge of creating
1 million new jobs in 10 years.  “The freeze in the real-estate market poses a grave threat
to the employment of low-skilled labor,” said David Nemeth, an
economist at  ING Groep NV (INGA)  in Budapest. “It’s another piece of
bad news for the already sluggish economy.”  Zoltan Nemes, a 35-year old computer programmer in the
Hungarian capital, said he put plans to buy his first home on
the backburner as he frets about the future. Even heavy
discounts aren’t enough to lure him to the market, he said.  Hard to Commit  “When I look at prices, a part of me wants to go out and
buy a place right now,” he said. “But loans are very expensive
and I see too many people losing their jobs around me, I’m
simply afraid to commit myself to such a deal.”  Demand for mortgages evaporated in recent months as
customers grew wary about their prospects and interest rates on
forint-denominated loans rose to around 12 percent, said Robert
Toman, head of household credit at  Raiffeisen (RBI)  Bank International
AG’s Hungarian unit.  “Both the real-estate market and mortgage lending are
hibernating,” said Toman, “and as to which came first, it’s a
question of the chicken and the egg.”  Hungary’s market is faring worse than other central
European countries because the forint’s 19 percent drop against
the euro since mid-2008 raised the cost of installments on
foreign-currency mortgages, which account for about two-thirds
of all home loans, and delinquencies soared, putting hundreds of
thousands of Hungarians at risk of losing their homes.  ‘Debt Slaves’  The government is struggling to protect homeowners by
forcing banks to accept some of the loss burden. Orban said on
March 15 that Hungarians won’t spend their lives as “debt
slaves” and indebtedness was a “bridle” on millions of
families.  Demand for foreign-currency mortgages took off in 2003,
when the government stopped subsidizing forint-denominated home
loans, and rose sharply after 2006 when state austerity measures
sapped households’ disposable income, prompting Hungarians to
finance consumption from credit.  Repayments subsequently soared after the forint plunged 39
percent against the Swiss franc from 2008, in which the majority
of mortgages were denominated, since mid-2008.  Orban forced domestic lenders to swallow losses on franc
mortgages by allowing their repayment at a discount exchange
rate, turning the banking industry unprofitable for the first
time in 13 years in 2011.  Lenders’ Losses  Domestic lenders booked a combined pretax loss of 370
billion forint on the repayment program, according to data from
the financial market  supervisor . The number of mortgage
contracts dropped 6 percent to 2.21 million by the end of 2011
from their peak in mid-2010, the authority said. Mortgage
lending at OTP Bank, the country’s largest lender,  declined  8
percent in the last quarter of 2011 from a year earlier.  “The economic environment isn’t conducive to a stable rise
in demand, even though property prices most likely bottomed
out,” said Attila Dery, a chief analyst at  Otthon Centrum , one
of Hungary’s largest residential real-estate management
companies. “The market of newly built properties is essentially
dead.”  Large-scale property projects have disappeared from the
capital as developers feared growing risk and financing became
scarce.  Market Retreat  Real-estate development company  SCD Group  sold its property
portfolio in Budapest and around Lake Balaton earlier this year
as the “outlook for profitability on the real-estate market was
unfavorable” and financing scarce, owner Gabor Juhasz said in a
statement published by state news agency  MTI  on March 6. The
company owned several office buildings in the capital’s affluent
Buda districts and commercial properties in the center of the
city.  Output in Hungary’s  construction industry  declined 7.8
percent in 2011, the sixth consecutive annual contraction.  Liquidations jumped 42 percent in January from a year
earlier, while construction output will probably shrink to half
of 2006’s level, according to  Opten  Informatikai Kft., which
publishes weekly reports on Hungarian corporate bankruptcies and
liquidations.  Government plans for state interest-rate subsidies on
mortgages and non-repayable grants for home purchases may help
thaw market conditions, though a turnaround in overall market
trends is unlikely before 2013 and depends on economic,
political and financial conditions, property broker Joneslang
LaSalle Inc. said in a  report  on Hungary.  Unsold Stock  “Developers will cautiously monitor the development on the
demand side before making any moves on the supply side,” it
said in the report. “It is likely that development companies
will concentrate on getting rid of the primary market’s unsold
stock and only a few new projects will be launched for sale.”  On a quiet mid-town street in Budapest, just walking
distance from restaurants, bars and a bustling street market,
Erzsebet Zolyom is hoping for a breakthrough in the sale of her
apartment, even though the flow of potential buyers has thinned
to a trickle. She is getting desperate.  “I would hate to lower the price further,” she said.
“But I may just have to if I want to ever sell this place.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net  