-- Chavez Hopes to Return Home This Week After Cuban Radiation
-- B y   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2012-03-25T19:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/venezuela-s-chavez-arrives-in-cuba-for-first-radiation-therapy.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said he hopes to return home March 29 after traveling to Cuba
last night to begin radiation therapy for cancer that is
hampering his re-election chances.  Chavez, in a phone call to Venezuelan state television,
said he was feeling fine after arriving to  Havana  around
midnight and immediately undergoing the first of five planned
radiation sessions in the coming days.  “This is part of my job, my life, which is no longer mine
but belongs to the people,” Chavez said. “Part of my job is to
forcefully take on this task of conquering troubles to keep on
living and continuing to triumph in preparation for the great
battle of October 7,” he said, referring to the upcoming vote.  Chavez’s surprise return to Cuba, where last month he had a
second malignant tumor removed from the same pelvic area he was
operated on in June, coincides with a rare visit to the
communist island by  Pope Benedict XVI .  Chavez, who started attending Mass more frequently and
asking God for help as his health worsened, may meet privately
with the pontiff, Nelson Bocaranda, a journalist who frequently
breaks news on the president’s health in absence of details from
the government, wrote today on his  blog . Father Federico Lombardi, a Vatican spokesman, said no meeting is planned.  ‘Full Recovery’  Before departing on the previously unannounced trip, Chavez
said he’ll shuttle between Havana and Caracas while he undergoes
radiation over the next four to five weeks. Doctors this week
removed the final stitches from his last operation Feb. 26, he
said.  “We are intent on my full recovery from this disease that
caught me off guard, as they say, so I can move forward and
continue together with all of you,” Chavez, 57, said last night
from the presidential palace, with flowers and a bust of his
hero, South American liberator  Simon Bolivar , in the background.
“My recovery has been fast, progressive.”  While the former tank commander says he’s fit enough to win
another six-year term, his treatment of the undisclosed form of
cancer as a state secret has fueled speculation his health is
worse than he’s letting on.  Opposition Gaining  Venezuelan bonds have rallied this year, returning 20
percent year-to-date -- more than every country except the  Ivory
Coast  -- as investors see an increased probability of a regime
change that may reverse policies that have fueled inflation of
more than 20 percent and dried up foreign investment.  The yield on  Venezuela ’s 9.25 percent benchmark bonds due
in 2027 has fallen 267 basis points this year to 10.76 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Opposition candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski moved into
a statistical tie with Chavez during the leader’s three-week
convalescence this month after surgery in Cuba, according to a
poll. Chavez was supported by 46 percent of those surveyed in
the poll by Caracas-based Consultores 21 taken between March 3
and March 13, while Capriles had 45 percent. The poll of 2,000
people had a margin of error of 2.3 percentage points,
Consultores 21 Vice President Saul Cabrera said in an interview.  “This body has reacted well, pushed on by love for the
people, that collective love so large that it urges me on to
continue fighting for life, our life, our homeland,” Chavez
said last night at the Caracas airport as he prepared to depart.
“I’m right there across the Caribbean with my faculties fully
intact to continue governing the country and continue commanding
my beloved armed forces.”  ----With assistance from Flavia Krause-Jackson in  New York .
Editors: Joshua Goodman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  