-- Woods Heads to Masters After Ending PGA Tour Win Drought
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2012-03-26T13:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/woods-wins-arnold-palmer-title-to-end-u-s-pga-tour-drought-1-.html
Tiger Woods  said he’ll head to next
month’s  Masters Tournament  with momentum after his first victory
on golf’s U.S. PGA Tour following 2 1/2 years of scandal,
injuries and commercial setbacks.  Woods won the Arnold Palmer Invitational for a record
seventh time yesterday, his first title on the tour since the
BMW Championship on Sept. 13, 2009 -- a gap of 132 weeks. Two of
Woods’s four Masters titles at Augusta National Golf Club
followed wins at Bay Hill Club and Lodge in  Orlando .  “I’ve won here on a few occasions going into Augusta which
has always been a good feeling,” Woods, 36, said at a news
conference after his five-stroke victory over Graeme McDowell.
“I still have got some work to do, but I’m excited.”  Tournament host Arnold Palmer didn’t attend yesterday’s
trophy presentation at Bay Hill Club and Lodge in Orlando after
being taken to a nearby hospital because of elevated  blood
pressure , his business manager Alastair Johnston, the vice-
chairman of International Management Group, told reporters.
Palmer, 82, was kept in overnight, though his blood pressure had
begun to fall shortly after the tournament ended, Johnston said.  Woods’s victory ended the longest drought of his career and
was his 72nd on the PGA Tour, one fewer than  Jack Nicklaus  and
10 behind all-time leader  Sam Snead . Woods previously won four
straight titles at Bay Hill from 2000-03 and also had back-to-
back wins in 2008 and 2009. He went on to win Masters titles in
2001 and 2002.  “I’ve gone into Augusta with wins and without wins,”
Woods said. “I understand how to play Augusta National and it’s
just a matter of executing the game plan.”  Masters Favorite  Woods, who moved to sixth from 18th in the Official World
Golf Ranking with the victory, is now listed as the Masters
favorite at the Las Vegas Hotel and Casino’s sportsbook, with 4-
1 odds. Last week, he was the 7-1 second-choice behind Rory McIlroy for the first of golf’s four annual major championships,
which starts April 5.  Woods, who began yesterday’s final round with a one-stroke
lead over McDowell, shot a 2-under-par 70 to finish the
tournament at 13-under-par. McDowell finished at 8-under after a
final-round 74 and  Ian Poulter  was third at 6-under.  “This was coming,” Woods said. “I just had to stay the
course. We all knew the things that we were working on were
coming together, they were starting to solidify, because the
golf ball wasn’t moving. It’s just going so straight and the
ball flight is just so tight.”  It was Woods’s fifth event this year on the PGA Tour and
followed a second-place finish at the Honda Classic on March 4.  Return from Injury  The  Arnold Palmer  Invitational marked Woods’s return to the
circuit after a mild Achilles tendon strain forced him to
withdraw during the final round of the Cadillac Championship
March 11. He had  four straight sub-par rounds , shooting 69, 65
and 71 before making four birdies and two bogeys yesterday.  After McDowell, the 2010 U.S. Open champion, opened the
final round with a double-bogey, Woods bogeyed the par-3 second
hole and then birdied four of his next six holes.  While McDowell made a 45-foot birdie putt at the third hole
and a 51-foot eagle putt at the sixth, Woods stretched his
advantage to four shots when  Northern Ireland ’s McDowell missed
a short par putt at the ninth hole. When McDowell added three
bogeys over the final seven holes, Woods took a five-shot lead
to the 18th tee. Woods broke into a wide smile after his second
shot landed in the center of the green.  “Week in week out it’s getting a little bit better,” said
Woods, who waved his hat to acknowledge the fans chanting his
name after he made his final putt. “When push came to shove,
when the wind was howling and I had to hit a lot of good shots,
I did.”  Chasing Nicklaus  Woods, who received $1.08 million for the victory, last won
the Masters in 2005 and collected the last of his 14 major
titles at the 2008  U.S. Open . He said he still needs to iron out
some kinks in his game if he’s going to move within three of
Nicklaus’s record haul of majors.  “It’ll be good to get a week off and work on a few
things,” said Woods, who with a victory can tie Nicklaus’s
record of five Masters wins. “I was able to hit some really
good shots the last two days and that’s a really good sign going
into Augusta.”  Since the start of the Arnold Palmer Invitational in 1966,
only Woods and  Fred Couples  in 1992 have won the Masters and the
Bay Hill tournament in the same year.  Woods’s victory in the 2009 BMW Championship came two
months before a one-vehicle crash outside his former Orlando
home that sparked a sex scandal that led to his divorce and the
end of his record 281-week stay atop the  world rankings .  Coach, Caddie Changes  He also replaced swing coach  Hank Haney  with  Sean Foley ,
fired longtime caddie  Steve Williams  and was dropped as an
endorser by companies including  AT&T Inc. (T) ,  Accenture Plc (ACN)  and
 Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)   Even with the turmoil, Woods said the worst part was
dealing with injuries. Over the past two years he has had knee
and ankle problems that prevented him from playing in the U.S.
and British Opens last year before he missed the cut at the 2011
 PGA Championship .  “Being on the sideline most of last year was tough,”
Woods said. “You can’t make a swing change and all the
adaptations I needed to make unless I can practice and I
couldn’t do that.”  Woods said the hardest part of the swing change was
adapting to longer ball flights.  “I’m not used to hitting my irons with some of the longest
hitters,” he said. “I haven’t done that for well over a
decade.”  The  PGA Tour  moves to Humble,  Texas , for the Houston Open
from March 29 to April 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 