-- Yankees’ Chamberlain Released From Hospital After Ankle Surgery
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-03-25T20:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-25/yankees-chamberlain-released-from-hospital-after-ankle-surgery.html
New York Yankees pitcher Joba Chamberlain was released from a Florida hospital three days
after having surgery to repair a dislocated right ankle.  Chamberlain will be in a cast for six weeks, the Yankees
said in a  statement  on their website, while recovering from the
injury sustained while he played on a trampoline with his son.  “So far, he’s been in great hands,” Yankees General
Manager Brian Cashman said. “He’s been getting everything
necessary. Things are going as good as can be expected, as I
understand it, which is obviously terrific. Hopefully, it
continues that way.”  The injury was described as an open dislocation, which is
similar to a compound fracture because the bone protrudes from
the skin. The 26-year-old Chamberlain’s ankle was repaired at
St. Joseph’s Hospital in Tampa. Chamberlain in June had a
ligament replaced in his elbow in a procedure known as Tommy
John surgery.  The ankle injury is the latest setback for a pitcher whose
fastball impressed the Yankees so much during his 2007 rookie
season that the team created rules to prevent then-manager  Joe Torre  from overusing him. In one stretch that year, Chamberlain
gave up one earned run in 24 innings.  Later that season, during a playoff game against the
 Cleveland Indians , Chamberlain lost his composure when a swarm
of midges, a gnat-type insect, descended upon the field. The
Yankees were ahead 1-0 during the eighth inning at the time and
Chamberlain threw two wild pitches and gave up the tying run.
The Indians won 2-1 in 11 innings and defeated the Yankees in
the series.  Chamberlain was arrested in 2008 and charged with driving
under the influence in his hometown of Lincoln,  Nebraska .  There’s no timetable for Chamberlain’s return. The relief
pitcher, who will be paid $1.7 million this year, can become a
free agent after the 2013 season.  “He’s frustrated but, at the same time, he’s a man and he
knows what the road ahead is,” Cashman said. “He’s not afraid
of it. I think his attitude, and I hate to speak for him, is
what do I need to do to get back?”  In five seasons with the Yankees, Chamberlain has a 20-13
record with an earned run average of 3.70.  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net  