-- 
India, Pakistan to Struggle for Influence in Afghanistan, Musharraf Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 
2011-11-06T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-05/india-pakistan-will-compete-for-influence-in-afghanistan-musharraf-says.html
The U.S. withdrawal from  Afghanistan 
will lead to  India  and Pakistan struggling over influence in the
war-torn country, according to  Pervez Musharraf , Pakistan’s
former president.  An unstable Afghanistan reeling from U.S. withdrawal, with
bordering India and Pakistan fighting for influence, will lead
to disarray in the region, Musharraf said on CNN’s “Fareed
Zakaria GPS” in an interview to be aired today.  “I think it’s going to be very difficult, very
difficult,” the retired Pakistani army chief said. “I get a
feeling that maybe we will revert to” the regional instability
that that preceded the 2001 U.S.-led invasion after the Sept. 11
attacks.  Pakistan has been “bending backward” trying to help train
Afghan troops and intelligence personnel, yet Afghan
“diplomats, intelligence personnel, military men, security
people go to India for training,” Musharraf said. He said he
doesn’t trust Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  “at all.”  Karzai said last month that Afghanistan is a loyal neighbor
to Pakistan and would assist if Pakistan were attacked by the
U.S. Musharraf said the notion is “totally preposterous”
during the CNN interview  U.S.-Pakistani relations deteriorated after American forces
killed al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in Pakistan without the
knowledge or permission of Pakistani authorities. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  led a U.S. delegation of civilian and
military leaders to Pakistan last month to improve cooperation.  Nuclear Weapons Safe  Musharraf said he’s confident Pakistan’s nuclear weapons
are safe even though the U.S. raid on bin Laden in Pakistan went
undetected by his country and there have been media reports that
its nuclear sites have been attacked by militants and weapons
transported in low-security convoys.  Pakistan ’s nuclear weapons are secure unless “Pakistan is
taken over by some religious extremist political organization,”
and “I don’t see that happening in the near future,” Musharraf
said.  The weapons “are very well dispersed and they are in very
strong positions, and also guarded,” Musharraf said. “I don’t
think it’s as simple as an Osama bin Laden action or a one-point
action which is a soft target. This is a very hard target.”  Musharraf has repeatedly said he didn’t know Osama bin Laden was hiding in the Pakistani army town of Abbottabad, where
U.S. forces killed him in May, and doesn’t think the country’s
intelligence service protected the al-Qaeda leader.  “It’s not a case of complicity, it’s a case of terrible
negligence,” he said. Musharraf, who lives in  London , has
formed a political party and said he plans to return to Pakistan
next year. Musharraf resigned in 2008 amid repeated calls for
his impeachment over his ouster of Supreme Court justices and
imposition of emergency rule.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in  Washington  at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 