-- ‘The Lorax’ Top Film Again, Outdraws Disney’s ‘John Carter’
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-03-12T21:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/-the-lorax-top-film-again-outdraws-disney-s-john-carter-1-.html
“Dr. Seuss’ The Lorax,” based on
the popular children’s book, was the top film in the U.S. and
 Canada  for a second weekend, generating $38.8 million in ticket
sales and outdrawing  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s “ John Carter .”  “John Carter,” produced at an estimated cost of $250
million, according to  IMDB.com , came in second with $30.2
million, researcher  Hollywood.com Box Office  said today in a
statement. Two other films opened this past weekend: the horror
film “Silent House” and  Eddie Murphy ’s “A Thousand Words.”  The weekend pitted  Universal Pictures ’ “Lorax,” a film
with the biggest opening weekend this year, against the first
major disappointment of 2011. “John Carter,” Oscar-winning
animation director Andrew Stanton’s first live-action movie, was
expected to open with sales of $38.9 million, the estimate of
 Box Office Mojo . The film had a 51 percent negative rating from
Rottentomatoes.com.  “The film didn’t seem attractive to anybody outside of
hardcore science-fiction fans, and it’s not based on any
material that’s very relevant right now,” Gitesh Pandya, editor
of Boxofficeguru.com, said in a phone interview from  New York .  “The Lorax,” by contrast, is drawing audiences because
“it’s colorful, it’s funny, it’s got some interesting star
power doing the voices, and there’s nothing else for kids out
there right now,” Pandya said.  ‘John Carter’  In “The Lorax,” written by the children’s author Theodor Seuss Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss, a 12-year-old boy
battles to win the affection of a girl and restore nature in his
overly industrialized world.  In the process, he learns the story of the Lorax, an
acerbic creature who tried to save trees from encroaching
developers. The computer-animated film from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s
Universal Pictures unit features the voices of Danny DeVito,
 Taylor Swift  and Zac Efron. The film has taken in $121.7 million
since it opened on March 2.  “John Carter” tells the story of an American Civil War
veteran who suddenly finds himself on Mars. Empowered with great
strength because of the planet’s lighter gravity, he joins in a
conflict among its inhabitants.  “Project X,” the R-rated teen comedy from  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros., had $11.1 million in receipts in its second
week, placing third. The film, which follows three high school
seniors as they plan a birthday party that explodes into a drug-
fueled bash, has taken in $39.7 million since opening.  ‘Silent House’  “Act of Valor,” the action picture starring real U.S.
Navy SEALs, dropped to fourth from third with $7.0 million. The
Relativity Media LLC film has generated $56.1 million in revenue
since it opened on Feb. 24. In the film, the commandos are out
to rescue a missing CIA agent played by Roselyn Sanchez.  “Silent House” had sales of $6.7 million to finish in
fifth place. The film features Elizabeth Olsen as a young woman
who is terrorized by an ominous presence in her family’s
secluded lake house.  The movie was said to be shot in one continuous take over
88 minutes, unfolding in real time, according to the picture’s
website. It is distributed by  Open Road Films , the joint venture
of  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC)  and AMC Entertainment Inc., the
largest U.S. cinema chains.  Murphy’s “A Thousand Words” collected $3.2 million in
sales to finish in 10th place. The comedian plays a slippery
literary agent who falls under a curse that limits the number of
words he has left to speak. The film, from Viacom Inc.’s
Paramount Pictures, also features Allison Janney and Clark Duke.  Coming Attraction  This coming weekend, “21 Jump Street,” starring  Jonah Hill  and  Channing Tatum , makes its debut. The pair go undercover
as cops at a local high school to investigate a drug ring in
this comedy, inspired by the TV series of the same name.  “What they’re hoping to do is get older adults who
remember the TV show from the ’80s, as well as younger adults
who will go in for the star power and the humor,” said Pandya.
“Chances are it will open at No. 1 and knock ‘The Lorax’” out
of the spot, he said.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 0.4 percent to
$118 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. For the
year, box-office sales have risen 18 percent to $2.01 billion
and attendance is up 21 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
March 9 to March 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  