-- A Hot Dog a Day Raises Risk of Dying, Harvard Study Finds
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-03-12T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/a-hot-dog-a-day-raises-risk-of-dying-harvard-study-finds.html
A daily meal of hot dogs, bacon or
hamburgers raises the risk of dying from  heart disease  or cancer
by as much as 21 percent, according to the largest assessment of
the health effects from consuming red meat.  The study released today by the  Archives of  Internal
Medicine  adds to evidence of health risks associated with eating
large amounts of red meat, which has been linked to diabetes,
heart disease, stroke and cancers, said  An Pan , the lead study
author and a research fellow at the Harvard University School of
 Public Health  in  Boston .   Still, red meat can be part of a healthy diet, said Dean Ornish, who wrote an accompanying editorial.  “It’s not all or nothing,” said  Ornish , clinical
professor of medicine at the University of  California ,  San
Francisco , and the author of the book on healthy eating, “The
Spectrum,” in a March 9 telephone interview. “To the degree
you make red meat more of a treat or more of a condiment and
substitute other things for it, you’re going to look better,
feel better, lose weight and gain health.”  More than 75 percent of the $2.6 trillion spent each year
on health care in the U.S. is for chronic diseases, he wrote in
his editorial. Eating less red meat may reduce the incidence of
these diseases and lower health care costs, Ornish wrote.  The  National Cattlemen’s Beef Association , the American
Meat Institute Foundation and the National Pork Board said that
red meat is a healthy part of a well-balanced diet.  ‘Balanced Diet’  “The scientific evidence to support the role of lean beef
in a healthy, balanced diet is strong and there is nothing in
this study that changes that fact,” said  Shalene McNeill ,
executive director of human nutrition research at the
Centennial, Colorado-based  National Cattlemen’s Beef
Association , in an e-mailed statement. “Overall, lifestyle
patterns including a healthy diet and physical activity, not
consumption of any individual food, have been shown to affect
mortality.”  Ceci Snyder, a spokeswoman for the  Des Moines , Iowa-based
 National Pork Board  and a dietitian, said when people overeat
any food they usually have other bad behaviors.  “It’s hard to pinpoint one cause for disease,” she said
in a telephone interview today. “People should eat more fruits
and vegetables definitely. People should exercise more. When
they villainize one food, it doesn’t help people too much.”  Researchers in the study included 37,698 men from the
 Health Professionals Follow-up Study  and 83,644 women in the
 Nurses’ Health Study . Their diets were assessed by
questionnaires given every four years.  Study Results  The researchers found that those who increased consumption
of unprocessed red meat by one serving each day had an 18
percent higher risk of dying from heart disease and a 10 percent
greater risk of dying from cancer, while those who ate one more
daily serving of processed red meat had a 21 percent higher risk
of dying from heart disease and a 16 percent increased risk of
dying from cancer.  Substituting one serving of a protein like fish, nuts and
poultry for the red meat lowered a person’s chance of dying from
those diseases, the researchers said.  Almost 24,000 people died in the two studies, of those
5,910 were from heart disease and 9,464 from cancer.  The Harvard study’s results aren’t reliable because the
data relied on self-reporting of diet and weren’t produced by a
randomized trial,  Betsy Booren , the Washington-based  American
Meat Institute Foundation ’s director of scientific affairs, said
today in an e-mail.  “All of these studies struggle to disentangle other
lifestyle and dietary habits from meat and processed meat and
admit that they can’t do it well enough to use their conclusions
to accurately recommend people change their dietary habits,”
she said. “What the total evidence has shown, and what common
sense suggests, is that a balanced diet and a healthy body
weight are the keys to good health.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  