-- Acapulco Drug Gangs Making Sare’s $1.4 Million Condos Hard Sell: Mortgages
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-03-12T21:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/acapulco-s-drug-gangs-curb-oceanfront-condo-sales-mortgages.html
Sare Holding SAB (SAREB) , the builder
offering $1.4 million condominiums on the Pacific coast beach of
Acapulco, is struggling to sustain sales and share prices amid
increasing bloodshed from Mexican drug cartels.  Revenue in Acapulco, Sare’s one-time biggest market, dried
up completely in the fourth quarter, dragging full-year home
sales in the city down 54 percent to 330.2 million pesos ($26
million), according to a Feb. 27 report and additional figures
provided by the company. Security concerns were among the
biggest obstacles to  growth , with its home sales nationwide
plunging 90 percent, the company said.  With the Mexican mortgage industry struggling to recover
from an economic contraction three years ago, Acapulco’s
gangland killings are exacerbating the slump in a city already
losing its luster to resorts in the Mexican Caribbean. Violence
intensified last year as cartels jockeyed for control of cocaine
shipment routes to the U.S.  Consumers “have the security issue on their minds,” said
Jorge Placido, the  Mexico  City-based head of equity analysis at
Vector Casa de Bolsa SA, the  brokerage  that executed the most
sell orders of Sare stock on the day its earnings report sparked
a 7.4 percent plunge. Buyers want vacation homes “that offer
peace and security,” he said.  The value of new commercial bank mortgages in Guerrero, the
state whose biggest city is Acapulco, fell 16 percent to 922.5
million pesos last year from 2008, before the U.S. recession
spread to its southern neighbor. The contraction in Guerrero’s
market was steeper and the recovery has been slower than the
rest of the country, where mortgage lending is down 2.2 percent
from 2008, according to data compiled by the local unit of  Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA. (BBVA)   Worst Performer  Sare stock has tumbled 14.2 percent since the earnings,
making it the  worst performer  on the country’s  IRT small
capitalization (IRTSMALL)  index of 20 Mexican companies. It fell 1.4
percent to 1.39 pesos at 2 p.m. Mexico City time.  The company had to halt land sales from October to February
and construction financing was temporarily suspended as it
negotiated changes to its  bank debt , it said in its quarterly
report. Sare last month extended maturities on about 2.4 billion
pesos of loans to an average of five years, from a range of
about one to four years.  Sare posted a fourth-quarter loss of 180.2 million pesos.
The full-year loss was 117.9 million pesos.  “The perception of insecurity set back our sales,”
investor relations official Mauricio Suarez said in a March 5
telephone interview from Mexico City. “Units didn’t move like
we were expecting.”  Guerrero Homicides  Homicides in Guerrero rose 44 percent to 2,158 in 2011. In
August, the state’s monthly tally briefly surpassed Chihuahua to
make it the most dangerous territory in Mexico, according to
 data  compiled by the attorney general’s office. A separate
measure provided by the head prosecutor, which tracks drug-war
violence specifically though only counts through September,
shows most of the killings were drug related.  The arrest on Aug. 30, 2010, of Edgar Valdez Villareal, who
the government says was a boss for the Beltran Leyva gang,
spawned battles among splinter cartels vying for the alleged
kingpin’s old territory, according to police. The U.S. had a $2
million reward out for the capture of the Laredo, Texas-born
former high school football star nicknamed “La Barbie,” a
reference to his blonde hair and light complexion.  “They are obliged to make such statements,”  Kent
Schaffer , a U.S.-based attorney for Valdez Villareal, said March
9 in an e-mailed response to questions. “We deny their
allegations.”  Dispatching Military  President Felipe Calderon dispatched the military and
federal police on Oct. 6 to patrol the region’s streets in an
operation known as Secure Guerrero. While homicides were down 19
percent in February from September, they’re still above 2010
levels. Interior Minister  Alejandro Poire  said Jan. 25 that the
offensive has led to “significant advances” in curbing crime.  The underperformance of the local mortgage market reflects
the combined effect of violence with other factors, including
the sluggish U.S. recovery that’s hurting the wallets of foreign
buyers, said Eduardo Torres, an economist tracking the real-
estate industry for the Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria unit,
known as BBVA Bancomer. Preferences among wealthy Mexicans may
also be shifting regarding where they build their second homes,
he said.  “There’s a combination of elements that go beyond just the
violence,” Torres said in a telephone interview from Mexico
City. “It’s an issue of income as well as perception.”  The  U.S. economy  will grow 2.2 percent in 2012, up from 1.7
percent in 2011, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey of 79 economists.  Marble Jacuzzis  At Marena, the Sare’s top-of-the-line development in the
beach city, condos sell for an average of 18 million pesos and
come with marble Jacuzzis on private terraces. The in-house spa
offers hot-stone massages.  Across Mexico, drug-related violence has killed at least
47,500 people since December 2006, when Calderon took office.
The government projected in 2010 that drug-related violence
shaves 1.2 percentage points off GDP annually. The  Finance
Ministry  declined requests to provide an updated estimate.  Economic growth will slow to 3.2 percent this year, from
3.9 percent in 2011, according to the median of 15 forecasts in
a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “We haven’t seen any evidence that the violence is having
any impact on the housing sector,” Ariel Cano, director of the
government’s National Housing Commission, said in an interview
in New York March 8. “For sure it’s not helping.”  Poised for Recovery  Sare is betting that with debt talks behind it, the company
is poised for a recovery. Horacio Espinosa de los Monteros, who
the board named chief executive effective March 1, said revenue
may climb to a range of 2.1 billion to 2.4 billion pesos in
2012, up from 1.6 billion pesos in 2011. About half will come
from land sales, while the other 1.1 billion to 1.4 billion
pesos will come from the company’s core business, he said.  The builder also plans to shift its focus to the low-income
market, which benefits from government subsidy programs aimed at
curbing a housing deficit that leaves about 8.9 million families
either without homes or living in substandard dwellings.  Jorge Lagunas, who oversees about $200 million as a  money
manager  at Mexico City-based Grupo Financiero Interacciones SA,
said he’s seen some demand for Sare shares from investors
looking to more than double their money.  “The company isn’t going bust,” he said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. His bank gives Sare as an option
“only for the class of clients whose investment profile is very
high-risk.”  Avoid Areas  The U.S. Department of State said visitors should take the
Mexico City-Acapulco highway only during daylight hours and,
once in the coastal city, avoid areas more than two blocks
inland from the main promenade, Costera Miguel Aleman, according
to a Feb. 8 travel  warning .  Foreign passenger traffic to Acapulco’s airport, operated
by  Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte SAB , fell 53 percent in
February from a year earlier, the Apodaca, Mexico-based company
said in a March 7 statement to the stock exchange.  Jobs registered in the state with the social security
institute, which excludes informal workers such as street
vendors from its count, have fallen 3.1 percent during
Calderon’s administration, compared to a 9.8 percent increase
across Mexico.  Sare should steer clear of Guerrero as it retools its
investment strategy, said  Carlos Hermosillo , an analyst at Grupo
Financiero Banorte-Ixe in Mexico City. It’s already planning to
sell some land purchased for its Solar Villas project in
Acapulco, the investor relations officer Suarez said.  The crime escalation is “not something that will be
resolved in six month or a year,” Hermosillo said in a
telephone interview. “Will they eventually return -- in two
years, or five, or 10? Who knows?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  