-- Aeroports de Paris to Buy 38% of Turkey Airport Operator TAV
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-03-12T14:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/aeroports-de-paris-agrees-to-acquire-38-of-turkey-s-tav.html
Aeroports de Paris , operator of the
French capital’s airports, agreed to buy a 38 percent stake in
Turkish counterpart  TAV Havalimanlari Holding AS (TAVHL)  for $874
million, the French operator’s largest purchase abroad.  The agreement with  TAV (TAVHL) ’s three biggest shareholders also
includes a separate acquisition of a 49 percent stake in a
construction company, TAV Yatirim Holding AS, for $49 million,
Paris-based ADP said today in a statement. ADP and TAV will run
37 airports serving 180 million passengers worldwide, it said.  ADP was competing with  Vinci SA (DG) ,  Europe ’s biggest
construction company, to buy the TAV stake from investors
including  Akfen Holding AS (AKFEN) . TAV runs Ataturk Airport in
Istanbul, Europe’s eighth-busiest, as well as terminals in
Georgia, Tunisia, Latvia and Macedonia, and it has a contract to
build and run an airport in Medina,  Saudi Arabia . The purchase
will help ADP’s earnings in 2013, the French company said.  “They already had some management contracts in some other
foreign airports, but this is the first time that they’ve taken
a stake this big in an airport this important,” said Laure
Desbrosses, a Paris-based analyst at Oddo & Cie. “The price
paid is not excessive, valuing  TAV  at about 15 percent more than
its peers, so it’s a good move.”  Stocks Decline  ADP  fell  as much as 0.6 percent to 59.93 euros and was
trading down 0.3 percent at 60.16 euros at 1:01 p.m. in Paris.
The stock has gained 14 percent this year, valuing the company
at 5.95 billion euros ($7.8 billion). TAV declined as much as
1.4 percent and was trading down 0.7 percent at 8.48 liras for a
market value of 3.08 billion liras ($1.71 billion).  The other shareholders in TAV that are selling stakes are
Tepe Holding AS’s Bilkent Holding and Sera Yapi Endustrisi &
Ticaret AS.  “There will be a good return on our investment” by the
time TAV’s operating concession for Ataturk Airport, the Turkish
company’s biggest asset, expires in 2021, ADP Chief Executive
Pierre Graff said in an interview after a news conference in
Istanbul. The airport’s traffic rose 17 percent last year to
37.5 million passengers.  ADP may not have to make a mandatory tender offer to
smaller shareholders in the Turkish airport operator because
there’s no change in control of its board, though this is
“something that the capital markets regulator will decide,”
TAV CEO Sani Sener said at the news conference.  Investment Plan  The French airport operator said it’s paying about 11.30
liras a share for the stake. The  purchase  is part of ADP’s
program of investing in international airports handling more
than 10 million passengers a year with “strong” earnings
growth potential in Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development markets or  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  or  China , it said.  “There is a strategy that has been put in place by TAV
which consists of acquiring external airports, one at a time,”
Graff said at the news conference. “We have a great deal of
respect for what has been achieved at TAV and don’t intend to
change this strategy,” and the partners will take the lead in
acquisitions in their respective stronger markets.  ADP owns 8 percent of Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport and held
a stake in Beijing Capital International Airport Company Ltd.
before selling that holding in 2007.  The acquisition is subject to the approval of Turkish
antitrust regulators, Sener said. ADP will pay for the stake in
cash at the closing, he said.  TAV’s selling shareholders hired  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  as
its financial adviser, while  Pekin & Bayar Law Firm (818987L)  and Ertekin
Law Office served as counsel.  Aeroports de Paris (ADP)  hired  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  as its adviser, and  Hogan Lovells (1131L)  and Pekin & Pekin
as counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  