-- Maersk Advances on Bets Freight Rate Increases May Stick: Copenhagen Mover
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-12T09:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/maersk-advances-on-bets-higher-freight-rates-will-stick-copenhagen-mover.html
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB) , owner of
the world’s largest container shipping line, rose to the highest
price in a week in Copenhagen trading on speculation that
increases in freight rates are sustainable.  Maersk rose as much as 1 percent to 45,360 kroner, the
highest price since March 5. The stock rose 0.5 percent to
45,160 kroner at 10:04 a.m., making it today’s  second-biggest
gainer  in the Copenhagen 20 index, which lost 0.1 percent.  Maersk Line , the company’s container unit, raised freight
rates March 1 on trade from  Asia  to Europe. It plans to increase
prices on its biggest route by an extra $400 per 20-foot
container starting April 1. The company also said Feb. 17 that
it will cut 9 percent of its capacity on the route in an attempt
to restore profits.  “Spot rates on Asia-Europe are holding up,” Nordea
Markets said today in a note to clients, repeating a “strong
buy”  recommendation  on Maersk shares. “We are therefore
confident that our estimates for Maersk Line are achievable; we
foresee a 4 percent higher average rate and a break-even result
in 2012.”  Maersk Line will lose money this year, the company’s
Copenhagen-based parent, A.P. Moeller-Maersk, said Feb. 27. The
container-line industry has lost $11.4 billion after operators
undercut each other on voyages to  Europe  and the U.S. from Asia,
Copenhagen-based SeaIntel Maritime Analysis said yesterday.  Dominic Edridge, an analyst at UBS AG, today removed his
“short-term sell” recommendation on Maersk shares, citing the
rebound in container rates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Wienberg in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  