-- Afghan Massacre Gives U.S. Chance to Demonstrate Justice
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-12T23:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/afghan-massacre-gives-the-u-s-a-chance-to-demonstrate-true-justice-view.html
The Army sergeant who killed 16
Afghan men, women and children on Saturday might have been
wearing a U.S. uniform, but he might just as well have been
fighting for the Taliban.  His horrific act has enraged a population still roiled by
the burning of Korans at Bagram air base last month. It has
undermined the safety of U.S. troops across  Afghanistan  and the
Muslim world. And it has the potential to turn an orderly
disengagement of coalition forces from Afghanistan into a
dangerous rush for the exits.  Withdrawal from Afghanistan -- something that we have urged
take place before President Barack Obama’s 2014 deadline -- was
always going to be fraught with heightened peril. Enemies of the
coalition and Afghan government will be emboldened. Even
disciplined troops on their way out will inevitably be less
willing to risk their lives, and more susceptible to fear,
aggression, and real or delusional score-settling. As  John Kerry 
infamously said of another war in another place, nobody wants to
be “the last man to die for a mistake.”  The invasion of Afghanistan was not a mistake, but the
dynamic is similar to the waning stretch of the Vietnam
conflict. Given the impact the killings are sure to have on the
already low levels of trust between coalition and Afghan forces,
the U.S. and its allies should  reconsider  their “train and
advise” strategy. If putting small groups of seasoned soldiers
with Afghan units is the only way to ensure an effective
handover, Obama should make that case and prepare the U.S.
public for higher casualties. U.S. troops in the field will also
need more headquarters support, whether senior officers to
supervise operations, intelligence officers to report and advise
on local conditions, or medical officers who can identify
soldiers who are near their breaking point.  The breach between the Afghan people and the coalition at
this point may be beyond repair. But for the sake of justice,
the U.S. military should hold the trial for Saturday’s massacre
in Afghanistan, not in the U.S, as was the case with defendants
in the Abu Ghraib prison tortures and the massacre of 24
civilians at Haditha,  Iraq . This would be quicker and allow
easier access to witnesses. The U.S. military should also allow
Afghan civilians access to the proceedings.  However painful that trial may be, we should not let it
cast a pall over the life-giving  achievements  of the last
decade, or allow it to obscure the real enemies of peace: the
Taliban, who in 2011 were responsible for nearly four-fifths of
all  civilian deaths  in Afghanistan. The best way to counter
their narrative is to make the course of justice as transparent
as possible.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 