-- Airbus, Airlines Urge EU CO2 Compromise to Avoid Retaliation
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-03-12T11:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/airbus-airlines-urge-eu-carbon-market-compromise-to-avoid-retaliation.html
Airbus SAS and  Europe ’s biggest
airlines called on the European Union to find a compromise on
aviation carbon curbs, warning that the EU emission limits on
foreign carriers could lead to increased retaliation.  The world’s biggest maker of civil aircraft and eight
airlines including  Air France-KLM (AF) ,  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and
British Airways urged European leaders to “use their
influence” and push for a global agreement to tackle emissions
from the industry and avoid an escalating trade conflict,
according to a letter sent to the prime ministers of France,
Germany, Spain and the U.K.  “The situation is becoming intolerable for the European
aviation industry,” according to the letter. “We have always
believed that only a global solution would be adequate to
resolve the problem of global aviation emissions.”  At stake is the first expansion of the EU emissions trading
system, or the ETS, beyond European borders. The bloc, which
wants to lead the global fight against  climate change , decided
in 2008 that aviation should become as of 2012 a part of the ETS
after airline carbon-dioxide discharges in the region doubled
over two decades and international organizations failed to enact
pollution curbs.  ICAO Should Decide  EU emission curbs on flights to and from the region’s
airports have triggered opposition from countries including the
U.S.,  China  and Russia, which said Europe should let the  United
Nations ’  International Civil Aviation Organization , or ICAO,
decide on greenhouse-gas limits for the industry.  The solution to the issue of pollution from aviation “can
only be found in ICAO, which has recently appointed a high-level
dedicated group to propose a global framework for international
aviation emissions by the end of this year,” the chief
executive officers of Airbus and the eight airlines said.  The letter follows a meeting in Moscow last month, where
officials from 29 nations signed a declaration in protest
against the EU law and agreed on steps they may choose to get
the European measures either canceled or postponed.  Russia  is considering limits on European flights over
Siberia, Deputy Transportation Minister Valery Okulov said after
the meeting on Feb. 22.  $12 Billion in Orders  Without a compromise, further countermeasures from
opponents of EU carbon limits will risk undermining the region’s
aviation industry after China suspended approval for $12 billion
worth of orders for Airbus, the company said in a press release
today. This will jeopardize more than 1,000 Airbus jobs in
Europe and at least another 1,000 in the supply chain, according
to the plane making unit of  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space
Co (EADS) .  China’s ambassador to the EU said last week it is sensible
for Chinese airlines to spurn Airbus planes in favor of models
from Boeing Co. over the bloc’s “hasty” decision to impose a
cap on aviation emissions. The government won’t dictate the
carriers’ purchases,  Li Jiaxiang , director of the Civil Aviation
Administration of China, said in an interview in Beijing on
March 10.  The EU has repeatedly said that while its ETS law enables
the exemption of incoming flights from a country if it
implements “equivalent measures” to tackle pollution from
aviation, the bloc won’t give up the inclusion of airlines in
the cap-and-trade program.  All EU governments backed the bloc’s curbs on greenhouse
gas emissions from airlines at a meeting of environment
ministers in Brussels on March 9, according to Climate
Commissioner Connie Hedegaard.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  