-- Airlines Vie for First Long Washington Flights Since ’04
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-03-13T01:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/alaska-air-seeks-to-offer-roundtrips-to-portland-and-san-diego.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) ,  Alaska Air
Group Inc. (ALK)  and  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  applied to operate new
nonstop flights from Ronald Reagan  Washington  National Airport,
where the first long-haul routes are being added since 2004.  Southwest, based in  Dallas , and New York-based JetBlue are
both seeking permission to offer the first nonstop, round-trip
flights to Austin,  Texas , from National. JetBlue also said it
wants to operate the first nonstop services to  San Juan ,  Puerto
Rico , from National, and Southwest’s service includes a proposal
for a one-stop, same-plane service to  San Diego  from National
via Austin, it said in a statement.  The U.S. Department of Transportation is offering four
round-trip flights to carriers with limited or no service at
National, and four more are earmarked for the biggest operators.
Virgin America Inc. also submitted an application today to
operate two round-trip flights between  San Francisco  and
National, which is prized by business and government fliers for
its proximity to downtown Washington.  Alaska Air is seeking permission to offer the first
nonstop, round-trip flights to San Diego and  Portland ,  Oregon ,
from National, the Seattle-based carrier also said in a
statement today.  The application deadline for carriers with limited or no
service at National is today, and the government is expected to
award the flights in May.  Long-Haul Departures  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines unit and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , four
big tenants at the airport, are each getting an extra long-
distance flight at National.  National is the only airport outside  New York  where
regulators control access and most flights are limited to a
1,250-mile (2,000-kilometer) radius. The new flights would push
daily long-haul departures to 20 in the coming months, a 67
percent increase.  The new slots were authorized by a funding bill for the
 Federal Aviation Administration  signed into law in February, and
are the first created since 2004, according to the
Transportation Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  