-- Malaysian Minister Resigns Amid Scandal as Najib Ponders Vote
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-03-12T09:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/malaysian-minister-resigns-amid-scandal-as-najib-ponders-vote.html
A member of  Malaysia ’s ruling party
said she’ll resign from the Cabinet amid a corruption probe
against her husband that has opened Prime Minister Najib Razak
to criticism as he prepares to call new elections.  Shahrizat Abdul Jalil will step down as minister for women,
family and community development when her term as senator ends
on April 8, according to the Star newspaper. Authorities are
investigating whether her family used part of a 250 million
ringgit ($82 million) loan to the  National Feedlot Corp.  to buy
condominiums, according to state-run Bernama.  The allegations are “one of the major issues which Najib
needed to resolve before calling the general election,” Ong Kian Ming, a political analyst at UCSI University in  Kuala
Lumpur , said by phone. “As long as no one is charged and found
guilty, it will continue to be a thorn in the side of Najib and
the ruling coalition.”  Najib, who must call an election by early 2013, may bring
forward the poll as he aims to extend his party’s five-decade
grip on power. His approval rating rose to 69 percent last month
from 59 percent in August after the government announced cash
handouts and vowed to change security laws, according to the
Merdeka Center for Opinion Research.  Court Appearance  Shahrizat appeared in court today with her husband, Mohamad
Salleh Ismail, who was charged with four counts of criminal
breach of trust and violating the Companies Act in relation to
more than 49 million ringgit given to the National Feedlot
Corp., the Malaysian Insider reported, without saying where it
got the information. Mohamad, the company’s executive chairman,
pleaded not guilty, the report said.  At least three other government officials have faced
corruption charges amid a wider campaign against graft that
Najib has pursued since coming to office in 2009.  Shahrizat denied any wrongdoing, Bernama reported. Her
press secretary, Eikmar Rizal Mohd Ripin, confirmed in a mobile-
phone text message that Shahrizat will resign and declined to
give further comment.  Shahrizat, who was first appointed a full minister by then-
Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in 2001, said she will remain as
the head of the women’s wing of Najib’s United Malays National
Organisation, which is Malaysia’s biggest political party,
according to the Star report. She was appointed as senator after
losing her parliamentary seat in Lembah Pantai in the March 2008
general election.  ‘Very Bad’  “It looks very bad for Najib in the sense that people can
argue that he talks so much about corruption, but he didn’t even
dare to take action against her and waited until her senatorship
lapses in April,” James Chin, a professor of political science
at the Malaysian campus of  Australia ’s  Monash University  outside
Kuala Lumpur, said by phone.  Najib described the High Court acquittal of opposition
leader  Anwar Ibrahim  on sodomy charges in January as proof of
the Malaysian judiciary’s independence. Malaysia ranked 60th out
of 182 nations last year in  Transparency International’s 
corruption perceptions index, down four places from 2010, when
178 countries were included.  Chan Kong Choy and Ling Liong Sik, two former transport
ministers, have been charged following cost overruns at a free-
trade zone development, while Mohd Khir Toyo, former chief
minister of Malaysia’s Selangor state, was sentenced to one
year’s jail for graft in December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  