-- Aldar, Sorouh Rally on State-Backed Merger Bets: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-03-12T11:20:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/aldar-sorouh-rally-to-highest-since-july-on-merger-bets-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  and  Sorouh
Real Estate Co. (SOROUH)  surged, pushing  Abu Dhabi ’s benchmark stock
index higher, on bets their potential merger into a company with
$15 billion in assets would bolster their businesses.  Aldar, the biggest developer in the  United Arab Emirates 
capital, and Sorouh, the second-biggest, both advanced 9.8
percent to 1.34 dirhams, the most since October 2008 and
December 2009, respectively. The stocks lifted the  ADX General
Index (ADSMI)  up 1.1 percent, the most since Feb. 26, to 2,614.83. The
ADX Real Estate Index jumped 9.7 percent.  The two builders, which have played an integral part in Abu
Dhabi’s drive to turn itself into a tourism and business hub,
said in a joint statement yesterday they set up a team to study
a possible merger with the “blessing” of the emirate’s
government. The team will present a plan in the next three
months. Government-owned Mubadala Development Co.  holds 49
percent  of Aldar while the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, a
sovereign wealth fund, has a  7 percent stake  in Sorouh.  “For the major shareholder here, which I believe is the
Abu Dhabi government, and ultimately for Sorouh as well, it
makes sense since the combined entity will be healthier than
Aldar, and potentially need less support in practice,” said
Dubai-based Ibrahim Masood, who helps manage about $400 million
at  Mashreqbank PSC. (MASQ)   State Support  Aldar got 36 billion dirhams ($9.8 billion) in government
support last year and sold assets including a Ferrari theme park
to the state. Property prices in the emirate dropped by almost
half since the market’s peak in 2008 as that year’s global
credit crisis forced banks to curb lending and speculators fled.  Shares of Aldar and Sorouh have rallied this year after Abu
Dhabi, holder of most of the U.A.E.’s oil reserves, said it
plans to resume stalled projects including branches of the
Louvre and Guggenheim museums. Aldar is up 46 percent in 2012
and Sorouh has surged 58 percent, both closing at the highest
since June. The  ADX Real Estate Index (ADRE)  has rallied 52 percent in
2012 after slumping 54 percent last year.  “Normally in a merger there is a winner and a loser,”
Mashreqbank’s Masood said. “Under most scenarios, Aldar stands
to gain at Sorouh’s expense here. Ultimately, once the
excitement wears off, stock performance should reflect that.”  Seven  analysts  recommend investors buy Aldar shares, three
say hold and four have a sell rating, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Eight  analysts  recommend buying Sorouh’s shares,
five holding them and two selling them.  Aldar posted a full-year profit that  beat analyst estimates 
after a year-earlier loss. Sorouh’s  2011 profit  surged to 334.7
million dirhams from 7.44 million dirhams a year earlier as
rental and housing income rose. Aldar had assets of 40 billion
dirhams at the end of last and Sorouh had 14 billion dirhams.  Arabtec Rallies  In neighboring Dubai,  Arabtec Holding (ARTC)  PJSC, the United Arab
Emirates’ biggest construction company, is up 85 percent so far
this year.  The shares had rallied on speculation the stock was being
accumulated amid bets it will benefit from regional
infrastructure spending.  Aabar Investments PJSC (AABAR) , the Abu Dhabi
government company which owns stakes in  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  UniCredit
SpA (UCG) , raised its ownership in Arabtec to 5.28 percent, data on
Dubai’s stock exchange showed this month.  The shares gained 0.3 percent today to 2.94 dirhams. They
had soared as much as 7.5 percent earlier.  “Aldar and Sorouh remained bid at limit up throughout the
day,” said  Julian Bruce , the Dubai-based director of
institutional sales trading at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.
“Overspill buying was very much in evidence at the open, as
buyers speculated on merger and acquisition activity in other
names, but failed to be maintained as profit-taking ensued in
the latter stages of the session.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  