-- Suspect in Afghan Killings Knew War’s Tensions From 4 Tours
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-03-13T10:11:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/alleged-shooter-arrived-in-afghanistan-dec-3-as-details-emerge-on-soldier.html
The U.S. Army staff sergeant
suspected in the killings of at least 16 Afghan civilians had
experienced the stress of war from four combat tours far from
home in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  The Army Criminal Investigative Command is probing the
killings and seeking a motive for the slaughter as officials in
southern Afghanistan came under gunfire while consoling
villagers whose relatives were shot dead by the soldier in their
homes.  The U.S. military was holding the suspect, whose name
wasn’t released, in a base at Kandahar, Afghanistan’s second-
largest city, as Afghan lawmakers and street protesters demanded
that he be tried in their nation’s courts.  The emerging picture of the Army sergeant was of a man worn
by the chaos of service in two wars that lack clear front lines
and alliances. The sergeant was on his first tour of duty in
Afghanistan after three tours in Iraq, Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said yesterday.  After such multiple deployments, military personnel
struggle “with post-traumatic stress disorder and depression --
and still don’t do what this man did,” said Barbara Van Dahlen,
founder of Give an Hour, a Bethesda, Maryland-based non-profit
group that provides mental-health services to military
personnel.  Officials Attacked  “By all accounts, it’s not the case that he cracked under
pressure and it’s different from someone who’s in a firefight,
sees his buddy get killed and loses control,” Van Dahlen, a
psychologist, said yesterday in an interview.  Kandahar provincial Governor Touryalai Wesa and two
brothers of President  Hamid Karzai  visited the villages attacked
by the soldier today. Taliban guerrillas fired on a mosque as
they met relatives of victims, Ahmad Jawid Faisal, a provincial
government spokesman, said by phone. An Afghan soldier guarding
the delegation was injured, he said.  Sayeed Mohammed Akhund, a lawmaker from Kandahar, said in a
phone interview that legislators want the American soldier tried
in an Afghan court, and hundreds of university students echoed
the demand in a street protest today in the eastern Afghan city
of Jalalabad.  “The demonstrators want the shooter to be prosecuted as
soon as possible in an Afghan court and even want him to receive
the death penalty,” General Abdullah Stanekzai, a police
commander in the city, said by phone.  U.S. Withdrawal  President  Barack Obama  told television interviewers
yesterday that the killings haven’t altered his plan to hand
security responsibility to Afghan forces by 2014. “It’s
important for us to make sure that we get out in a responsible
way, so that we don’t end up having to go back in,” Obama said
in an interview with a CBS television affiliate reported on the
CBS News website.  “What we don’t want to do is to do it in a way that is
just a rush for the exits,” Obama said, according to the CBS
report.  Obama administration officials are considering an
accelerated schedule for U.S. troop withdrawals that could
nearly double the planned reduction in troops within a year, the
New York Times reported, citing White House, Defense Department
and State Department officials it didn’t name. The U.S. has said
it will bring home 22,000 of its 90,000 troops in Afghanistan by
September, and as many as another 20,000 could be withdrawn by
June 2013, the report said.  Death Penalty  The sergeant suspected in the killings could face the death
penalty, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  told reporters traveling
with him to Kyrgyzstan. “My understanding is, in these
instances, that could be a consideration,” he said.  For prosecutions of U.S. soldiers in Afghanistan, the U.S.
retains legal jurisdiction under a U.S.-Afghan accord, according
to a Jan. 5, 2011 report by the  Congressional Research Service .  The sergeant identified in the killing arrived in
Afghanistan on Dec. 3 from his home station at Joint Base Lewis-
McChord in Washington state, the U.S. Army said in a memo
prepared yesterday for members of Congress. He was with the 2-3
Infantry, 3rd Stryker Brigade Combat Team of the 2nd Infantry
Division.  While in the conventional military, he was attached to a
Special Operations task force in southern Afghanistan on Feb. 1,
according to the memo.  The suspect is 38 years old and is married with two
children,  ABC News said , citing a U.S. official it didn’t name.
He had marital difficulties after his last tour of duty in  Iraq 
and had previously been deemed fit for duty after suffering a
mild traumatic brain injury, the network said.  Mental Impairment  The injury occurred in a vehicle rollover in Iraq that
wasn’t combat-related,  CNN  reported.  The U.S Manual for Courts-Martial, the guidebook for
military justice, says mental impairment may be used as an
“affirmative defense” if “the accused, as a result of a
severe mental disease or defect, was unable to appreciate the
nature and quality or the wrongfulness of his or her acts.”  The soldier’s family has been moved onto his home base near
Tacoma, Washington, for their safety, CBS reported.  In Afghanistan, the soldier hiked to one village 800 meters
(0.5 miles) south of his base and then to another village 500
meters north of the base to commit the killings, the Army said
in the memo to Congress.  Nighttime Attack  “What we know is that a U.S. soldier left his forward
operating base in the night hours from Saturday into Sunday,
went into the nearby villages and opened fire on civilians in
those villages,” Brigadier General Carsten Jacobson, a
spokesman for the NATO-led force in Afghanistan, said March 11.  The attack happened in Panjwai, a plain stretching
southwest from Kandahar city that is densely dotted with
villages whose mullahs helped found the  Taliban movement  in
1994. The district has remained a Taliban stronghold since
NATO’s  International Security Assistance Force , or ISAF, took
control in heavy fighting in 2006.  “The soldier killed four of my family members including my
wife, sisters and a baby nephew,” Habibullah Khan, whose home
was one of those attacked, said in a phone interview. “I was
out of the district, in the city of Kandahar, but when I came
back I saw blood and all four people had been killed in their
beds.”  The attacker gathered 11 of those he killed into one home
and set the bodies on fire, according to Lal Mohammed, an elder
from Zangabad, the area where the attack occurred. He spoke by
phone.  Suspect’s Surrender  After the attack, the soldier walked back to his base and
surrendered, Jacobson said.  Farming families in Zangabad, a grape-growing area 35
kilometers southwest of Kandahar, met in mosques yesterday to
hold post-burial prayers for relatives killed by the soldier,
according to Khan, 36. He said the local government has
discouraged villagers from responding with violence.  U.S. officials believe the attack was an “isolated
incident” and that the suspect acted alone, Little told
reporters at the Pentagon yesterday.  Obama called Karzai March 11 “to express his shock and
sadness” and pledged “to hold fully accountable anyone
responsible,” according to a White House statement.  Interviewed on Orlando television station WFTV, Obama
responded to a question saying that the shooting is “not
comparable” to the 1968 massacre of more than 300 hundred
civilians by a group of U.S. soldiers in My Lai during the
 Vietnam War . “It appears that you had a lone gunman who acted
on his own in just a tragic, tragic way,” Obama said.  Panetta Comments  Panetta said such cases shouldn’t deter the U.S-led
coalition and its Afghan partners.  “War is hell,” Panetta told reporters traveling with him
to Kyrgyzstan, the location of an air base used to supply troops
in Afghanistan. “These kinds of events and incidents are going
to take place. But we cannot allow these events to undermine our
strategy or mission.”  While Republican presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich  said
March 11 that the killings underscore that U.S. troops should be
withdrawn from Afghanistan, rival  Mitt Romney  said yesterday on
Fox News Channel that “the actions of a deranged person are not
going to shape America’s foreign policy.”  The killings threaten to renew protests against U.S. forces
and complicate the Obama administration’s efforts to arrange an
orderly withdrawal over the next two years.  Complicating Talks  American troops triggered riots last month by burning
copies of the Koran, the Islamic scripture, in a rubbish pit at
the main U.S. base in the country. In January, Afghans protested
over a video that showed U.S. Marines urinating on the bodies of
Afghans they had killed.  “If the U.S. and Afghan governments do not prosecute this
soldier, the Afghan people will protest, and some may attack
that base,” said Agha Lalai Dastgiri, a village elder from the
Alokozay section of Zangabad who serves on the Kandahar
provincial council.  The killings may complicate U.S.-Afghan talks on terms by
which some U.S. forces might remain there after 2014, said Ahmad
Saeedi, a political analyst and retired Afghan diplomat in
Kabul.  Karzai said the incident shows “great oppression and
cruelty” toward the people of Afghanistan, according to a
statement from his office. “The people of Afghanistan want full
reports and clarity on the incident’s details from the  United
States of America ,” he said.  Nine children and three women were among the dead, Karzai
said. Five others were wounded.  Ministry Killings  “The so-called American peace keepers have once again
quenched their thirst with the blood of innocent Afghan
civilians in Kandahar province,” the Taliban said in a
statement posted on a website used by the insurgents.  Protests over the burning of Korans in a trash dump at the
Bagram air base led to attacks on U.S. personnel in Afghanistan
last month. Two American advisers were shot dead in the Interior
Ministry Feb. 25, while nine Afghans were killed and two
American soldiers wounded in a suicide car-bombing in eastern
Afghanistan Feb. 27.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  