-- Lana Del Rey Eclipsed by Smooth Soul, Smutty Rap: Robert Heller
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2012-03-12T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/lana-del-rey-eclipsed-by-smooth-soul-smutty-female-rapper-robert-heller.html
Lana Del Rey is so passe.  Headlines about Botox and manufactured stardom have hobbled
some of her momentum to become the hottest new rock star of
2012. The lipstick, applied to her notorious lips for the cover
of  Vogue , wasn’t dry before the hunt for her replacement began.  So instead, this summer’s great musical hopes (or hypes)
will be traditional southern rockers, fizzy alternative-rock
poppers, sleek soul singers and smutty female rappers. Perhaps.  Each year, four acts, from anywhere in the world, get
tipped for greatness by the  New Musical Express , a U.K.
magazine. They are sent around Britain on the NME Awards Tour.
The Killers, Coldplay and Florence & the Machine appeared in
previous tours. So too did many more bands who quickly slid back
into obscurity even after the best record-label marketing.
Predicting future stars is a tricky business.  There should be few doubts about  New York  rapper  Azealia
Banks , who opened 2012’s NME shows with charisma and bouncy
beats. Madonna may have met her match.  Two Door Cinema Club  and  Metronomy , the NME’s headline
bands, both are worth watching, though they aren’t exactly new.
Metronomy’s third album “The English Riviera” lifted it beyond
the quirky synth-rock. A paean to songwriter Joseph Mount’s
home, it was the sound of Was (Not Was), the mutant disco of New
York’s  Ze Records  transplanted to an English seaside town.  Synth-Pop  The CD’s skinny synth-pop translates well to a stage. The
brittle disco of “The Bay” benefits from the drumming of Anna
Prior and muscly bass of Gbenga Adelekan. The geeky charm of the
record remains, not just in Mount’s appealingly fey vocals.  Northern Ireland ’s Two Door Cinema Club makes perky pop
with a disco beat, like a Vampire Weekend without the preppy
preoccupations or a Foals without the weight of intellectual
ambition. Its  debut album  “Tourist History” was reasonably
received in 2010. Persistent touring has allowed the band to
build a live set that is giddy with the rush of teen enthusiasm.  Singer Alex Trimble tumbles out melodies with a vulnerable
yelp. Sam Halliday’s guitar combines the lyricism of Johnny Marr
with the exuberance of the best African soukous.  A clutch of fizzy new songs don’t suggest a major change in
direction. Another disc to add to “Tourist History“’s brief 33
minutes would be welcome.  Looking Elsewhere  The NME tour also included  London  four-piece  Tribes , with a
sludge of uninspired rock cliches. A musical future clearly
doesn’t await and it’s time to look elsewhere. There are always
more acts vying for attention than those whose schedules allow
them to take part in the tour.  For example, there’s Montreal’s Claire Boucher, a darkside
alternative to Del Rey. Recording as  Grimes , Boucher channels a
Lana-like charisma through bleepy electronics, the Gothic
demeanor of the Cure and the Cocteau Twins’ wispy vocals.  Alabama Shakes  may well do with traditional southern rock
what Adele managed with soul. The act is already being swamped
with endorsements, including one from Adele herself. The
musicianship is excellent and front woman Brittany Howard has
serious star potential.  Londoner  Michael Kiwanuka’s  folk-infused soul is a must for
anyone who has ever loved Terry Callier or Richie Havens.  Yet another Londoner,  Jessie Ware , started out like Katy B,
singing in dubstep clubs. Like an electronica-literate Sade,
she’s more likely to be sound-tracking romantic nights in than
wild nights out.  Toy  is a psychedelic rock outfit that is snapping at the
heels of mentors the Horrors. Minneapolis’s  Howler  is packing
harmonies and bubblegum Americana into blasts of guitar-pop
noise. Both acts might have a very exciting year ahead of them.  Or perhaps not. After all, this time last year Del Rey was
unknown to all but her management and a few aficionados. It will
be fun listening.  Information: For more on Lana Del Rey,
 http://www.lanadelrey.com/ . Also see  http://azealiabanks.com/ ,
 http://www.metronomy.co.uk/ ,  http://twodoorcinemaclub.com/ ,
 http://www.grimesmusic.com/ ,  http://www.alabamashakes.com/ ,
 http://michaelkiwanuka.com/ ,  http://soundcloud.com/jessieware 
and  http://www.howlerband.com/ .  ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 