-- anadarko spending
-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p
-- 2012-03-13T16:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/anadarko-plans-up-to-6-9-billion-in-2012-capital-spending.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , the
largest U.S. independent oil and natural-gas producer by market
value, plans to boost spending as much as 13 percent as it taps
onshore crude reservoirs and pushes ahead on African projects.  Capital spending  this year will be $6.6 billion to $6.9
billion, The Woodlands, Texas-based company said yesterday in a
statement. The company spent $6.1 billion in 2011.  More than 90 percent of the company’s exploration and
production spending this year will go toward properties
containing oil and liquids, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Jim Hackett said in the statement. The focus on oil and liquids
comes as crude trades for more than $100 a barrel in  New York ,
while natural-gas futures hit a 10-year low today.  The company will be “dialing back U.S. onshore dry gas
activity,” Hackett said in the statement.  Sales volumes will be 256 million to 260 million barrels of
oil equivalent in 2012, or as much as 4.8 percent more than last
year, Anadarko said. The forecast accounts for asset sales and
the reduced gas activity, which together will decrease volumes
by about 6 million barrels. Last year’s growth was about 5.5
percent.  Joint Ventures Ahead  Anadarko has an initial agreement for a joint venture for
its Salt Creek enhanced oil recovery project, the company said
in an investor presentation today. Anadarko would sell 23
percent of the assets in a transaction that would include the
buyer paying a portion of development costs, Chief Financial
Officer Bob Gwin said. Anadarko did not identify its Salt Creek
partner because the transaction, which may close in coming
weeks, has confidentiality restrictions, he said.  Anadarko also said it’s considering a joint venture for
holdings in the DJ Basin, excluding its core Wattenberg area.
The company may do at least one more joint-venture transaction
during the year, Gwin said.  Anadarko plans to devote about 55 percent of its spending
this year to U.S. onshore properties, 25 percent to
international projects, 10 percent to the Gulf of Mexico and 10
percent to midstream and other work. Spending this year will be
in line with  cash flow , the company said in slides posted online
for its investor meeting.  Boosting Resource Estimates  Anadarko has holdings in such U.S. onshore projects as the
Eagle Ford Shale of  Texas  and the Wattenberg field of  Colorado .
The company boosted its estimate of net resources in the Eagle Ford to the equivalent of more than 600 million barrels of oil,
compared with an earlier estimate of 350 million.  The company has a new liquids program that uses horizontal
drilling in the Carthage area of eastern Texas. Anadarko plans
to have six to eight rigs in the area during 2012 and drill
about 75 wells. The area may hold 300 million barrels of oil
equivalent of net resources, according to Anadarko.  Anadarko said it plans to cut its rig count in the
Marcellus Shale of  Pennsylvania  to 13 from 21 during the year,
citing market conditions. The company’s average recovery is
about 8 billion cubic feet of gas per well in the Marcellus,
according to the release.  Anadarko forecast  gas prices  to be $4 to $6 per million
British thermal units in 2014, according to presentation slides.
Gas prices slid to a 10-year-low of $2.204 per million Btu in
overnight electronic trading as warmer-than-normal weather cut
demand for the fuel.  Offshore Mozambique Recovery  The company also has projects in areas including the Gulf
of Mexico and off the coast of  Africa . Anadarko boosted its
estimate of the recoverable gas in an area offshore  Mozambique 
to a range of 17 trillion cubic feet to 30 trillion cubic feet
or more, compared with a previous floor of 15 trillion.  Anadarko plans to drill about 25 “high-impact” deep-water
exploration or appraisal wells globally this year. The company
said it expects seven to 10 wells off Mozambique. Anadarko’s
drilling program includes six to eight planned wells in the
deep-water  Gulf of Mexico .  Anadarko fell 1 percent to $83.95 at 11:46 a.m. in New
York.  Independent oil  companies focus on finding and producing
crude and natural gas, not refining or selling fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  