-- Apple, Motorola Mobility Discussed Patent Settlement, EU Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-12T18:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/apple-motorola-mobility-discussed-patent-settlement-eu-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  held talks with Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. at the end of last year on a potential
cross-licensing settlement to end a dispute over smartphone
patents, according to a European Union document.  Apple and Motorola Mobility had discussions in late 2011 to
license each others’ patents “possibly to the benefit of all
Android” smartphone manufacturers, according to the  document  on
the EU’s website, referring to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s operating system
for smartphones and tablets. The companies “also discussed the
scope of any potential settlement” after Google completes its
$12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility.  Apple and Motorola Mobility have sued each other in the
U.S. and  Europe  over technology used in smartphones, a market
that researcher IDC said grew 55 percent last year. Apple also
filed an antitrust complaint with EU regulators after it said
Motorola Mobility violated a pledge to license industry-standard
patents on fair terms.  Apple told EU regulators that Motorola Mobility initially
wanted it to license the company’s full patent portfolio in
order to gain access to Motorola Mobility’s standard-essential
patents, said the document which summarized the European
Commission’s antitrust review of Google’s bid for Motorola
Mobility.  Jennifer Erickson , a spokeswoman for Motorola Mobility in
 San Diego , declined to immediately comment. Alan Hely, a
spokesman for Apple in  London , didn’t immediately respond to a
call and an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Refusal to Accede’  “Apple also argues that its refusal to accede to this
demand led Motorola Mobility to sue Apple in an attempt to
exclude Apple’s products from the market,” according to the EU
document, published March 9 on the EU website.  Motorola Mobility, which has said it’s been in licensing
talks with Apple since 2007, has previously said it licenses its
patents on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms which
it offered to Apple.  Google has said it would seek a royalty fee of no more than
2.25 percent of the net cost of devices using its patents, and
would try to resolve any disputes through negotiation before
asking courts to block use of the Motorola Mobility technology.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 