-- Larry King Stars on Online TV Network Funded by Carlos Slim
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-03-12T20:52:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/larry-king-stars-on-online-tv-network-funded-by-billionaire-slim.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s wireless
carrier  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB is funding an online TV network that
will star former  CNN  talk-show host  Larry King .  Ora.tv, based in New York, is led by Jon Housman, formerly
News Corp.’s president of digital journalism, according to the
company’s  website . Programming will start later this year, the
company said. It didn’t say how much  America Movil  is investing.  Slim, the world’s richest person according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index, is expanding his media properties as America
Movil increases its presence in the pay-TV business. The  Mexico 
City-based company has the most cable and satellite subscribers
in  Latin America , with more than 13 million, mostly in  Brazil .  “The viewers are really there for digital viewing writ
large,” Chief Executive Officer Housman said today in a
telephone interview. “There’s a further influx of advertisers
who have spent some amount of time on the sidelines and are now
looking for opportunities in the space.”  Ora.tv will not charge a subscription fee and will be
wholly dependent on online advertising for revenue, Housman
said.  Companies such as Hulu LLC that carry video content online
have shown that ads can be lucrative when the programming is
original, said  Tony Wible , a Philadelphia-based analyst who
covers media companies for Janney Montgomery Scott LLC.  “One of the challenges you find in Internet-delivered TV
is how to promote originals,” Wible said in a telephone
interview. “It’s hard enough to do on TV, where you have a
captive audience.”  ‘Land-rush Stage’  Housman, 43, has experience putting together distribution
partnerships and developing strategies with high-profile talent,
said  Jonathan Miller , CEO of digital operations at  News Corp. (NWSA) ,
where he worked with Housman for three years.  “It’s still the early days where everyone is trying to
figure out what models to follow, how to build an audience in a
new way,” Miller said, commenting on the online TV sector.
“We’re still in the pioneering, Oklahoma land-rush stage of
web-video development.”  In October, America Movil agreed to buy DLA Inc., then a
unit of Claxson Interactive Group Inc., to gain video content
such as pay-per-view movies for Internet and mobile devices.
Since then, the company has begun offering an online-video
rental service in Argentina and Uruguay.  Tablets, Smartphones  America Movil is considering starting a similar online-
video-rental service in Mexico, where the company is banned from
using its network to offer traditional TV, a person familiar
with the company’s strategy said earlier this month.  Slim, 72, also has stakes through an investment company in
two newspaper publishers,  New York Times Co. (NYT)  and  Promotora de
Informaciones SA .  Ora, which means “now” in Italian, will offer programming
for mobile phones, tablets and Internet-enabled televisions in
addition to computers, the company said. Shows will be available
on demand and will have production quality similar to
traditional TV, it said. Some segments will be as short as three
minutes.  “The team brings the talent and industry understanding
that will help Ora stand out in digital television, a category
which is primed for exponential growth,” Slim  said  in a
statement on the company’s website.  King’s Career  King, 78, was a Miami media personality who gained fame
across the U.S. with a radio show broadcast from 1978 to 1994,
according to a  biography  on the website of CNN, the 24-hour news
network owned by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  “Larry King Live” first
aired on CNN in 1985 and became the network’s highest-rated
program with a mix of interviews with political figures such as
President Barack Obama and celebrities including George Clooney.
King gave up that show in 2010.  “He’s a magnet for talent,” Housman said. “He’s got
access to the leading voices around the world, from political
leaders to entertainers.”  In 2010, King spoke in Mexico City to winners of
scholarships granted by a foundation led by Slim. The
billionaire was one of the final guests on King’s CNN program
later that year. In 2011, King was a guest at the opening of
Slim’s Mexico City art museum.  The  New York  Times reported on Ora.tv yesterday.  America Movil dropped 0.9 percent to 14.80 pesos at the
close in Mexico City. The shares have  fallen  6.4 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  