-- Harvard Draws Vanderbilt as Upset-Minded No. 12 Seed in NCAA Tournament
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-12T04:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/harvard-draws-vanderbilt-as-upset-minded-no-12-seed-in-ncaa-tournament.html
Harvard University co-captain
 Oliver McNally  said he isn’t satisfied with just getting his
school into the National Collegiate Athletic Association men’s
basketball tournament for the first time since 1946.  The  Crimson  have designs on joining the line of No. 12
seeds to score a tournament upset as they face Southeastern
Conference champion  Vanderbilt University  in their opening game
on March 15 in  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico .  “It’s going to be heartbreak if we don’t win,” McNally, a
senior guard, said during a news conference last night at the
school’s campus in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “I’m so happy that
I was able to be a captain and part of the leadership that
brought the first Ivy League championship here, but that’s
happened and we’re here to win the next game.”  Harvard is the No. 12 seed in the 16-team East Regional
while  Vanderbilt  is a fifth seed after upsetting No. 1-ranked
Kentucky yesterday to win their conference tournament. In 10 of
the past 11 years, at least one No. 12 seed has won an NCAA
tournament game.  A year ago, Vanderbilt was also a fifth seed and lost its
opening game to No. 12 Richmond 69-66.  “We’re excited to have put ourselves in this position,”
said Harvard coach Tommy Amaker, who unlike his players has
previous NCAA tournament experience as both a player and coach.  Amaker, 46, won eight tournament games as a player at  Duke
University , where he was later an assistant coach for two
national championship teams. Amaker also won two games in 2000
as coach at  Seton Hall University  in  New Jersey .  Priceless Reaction  Amaker and his players watched the televised announcement
of the field yesterday at Harvard’s Hall of Athletic History, a
venue he said was “very appropriate” to celebrate the second
NCAA tournament appearance in school history.  “Their reaction was priceless,” Amaker said of the
response when Harvard’s name popped up on the screen opposite
Vanderbilt. “Seeing their reaction was all worth it for me.”  Harvard had a 26-4 record this season and players said the
team’s success has spread excitement throughout campus. The
school had midterm exams last week and junior guard Brandyn
Curry was among those who said fellow students would stop
players during study breaks to congratulate them.  “We had a couple of teachers stop lectures to congratulate
players on the team,” Curry said. “Hearing all that is great.
Just to see how our fan base has grown.”  In 68 NCAA tournament appearances, Ivy League teams have a
40-78 record. Since 2000, the league has gone 2-12.  Vanderbilt, which has a 24-10 record this season, is 9-13
all-time in NCAA tournament play.  “This is the reason why all of us came here,” Harvard
junior forward  Kyle Casey  said. “We have a drive and motivation
to continue to achieve our goals. We’re going to go in
confident, play our game, stick to who we are and I think the
outcome will take care of itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  