-- Asahi Kasei Will Buy Zoll for $2.2 Billion to Expand in U.S. Health Care
-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-03-12T20:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/asahi-kasei-is-set-to-pay-as-much-as-2-2-billion-to-purchase-zoll-medical.html
Asahi Kasei Corp. (3407) , a Japanese maker
of synthetic fibers and industrial chemicals, agreed to buy Zoll
Medical Corp. for $2.2 billion to expand in critical-care
products for hospitals and grow sales in  Asia .  Asahi Kasei will pay $93 a share for Zoll, the Chelmsford,
Massachusetts-based maker of devices used in ambulances and
hospitals to revive patients whose hearts have stopped, the
companies said in a statement today. That’s 24 percent higher
than Zoll’s closing price of $75.10 on March 9.  Zoll’s devices expand the types of products sold by Asahi
Kasei in both the U.S. and the “high-growth markets of Asia,”
said Taketsugu Fujiwara, Asahi Kasei’s president, in a
statement. Because the price doesn’t take into account Zoll’s
temperature management system, used after strokes and heart
attacks, others may still bid, said Jonathan Block, of SunTrust
Robinson Humphrey Inc.  “There is a chance, albeit a slight one, that someone else
could emerge over the next several weeks,” Block, a  New York- 
based device analyst, said by telephone today. “It would have
to be fast. This deal is set to close in the second quarter,
which doesn’t leave a whole lot of time.”  Zoll didn’t run an auction process before the deal,
according to a person with knowledge of the situation who
declined to be identified because the talks were private.
Instead, after Asahi’s initial offer, Zoll contacted parties
that may have been interested in bidding before returning to the
Japanese company for further negotiations, the person said.  Shares Rise  Zoll jumped 24 percent to $92.94 at the close of New York
trading, having more than doubled in the past 12 months. The
deal was announced after markets in  Tokyo  closed, when Asahi
Kasei rose 0.2 percent to close at 518 yen. The company’s stock
has gained 12 percent this year  The acquisition won’t lead to restructuring, management
changes or a smaller Zoll workforce, said Chief Executive
Officer Richard Packer in a letter to employees today.  “Asahi Kasei needs all that Zoll has,” Packer wrote. “No
part of Zoll or person in Zoll is redundant to what Asahi Kasei
already has. This fact means there will be minimum change or
disruption,” he said.  The acquisition would speed Asahi Kasei’s expansion of a
health-care business that seeks to triple to 500 billion yen
($6.1 billion) by 2020. The global critical-care market is
estimated at $48 billion and growing 7 percent a year.  “This transaction will allow us to build on  Zoll (ZOLL) ’s strong
U.S. business position and its technology leadership, with Zoll
forming the cornerstone of our critical care business,”
Fujiwara said.  Lower Premium  The price offered by Asahi Kasei is 26 percent higher than
Zoll’s average closing price over the 20 days through March 9,
and lower than the 53 percent average premium for 19 similar-
sized acquisitions of health-care product companies in the past
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Zoll Medical, founded in 1980 by three people including
heart doctor Paul M. Zoll, also sells a removable defibrillator
vest used for patients at risk of cardiac arrest. The product,
which had sales of $111 million in fiscal 2011, has strong
potential for growth, Fujiwara said in a briefing in Tokyo.  Zoll’s  net income  rose 65 percent to $31 million in the
year ended Oct. 2, driven by sales of external defibrillators,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Annual sales have grown
an average 16 percent for the past 10 years on demand in  North
America , said Yasuyuki Yoshida, an executive at Asahi Kasei.  Seeking Growth  Japanese technology companies are seeking health-care
equipment businesses for growth. Sales in the world’s 10 biggest
markets for medical devices are estimated to grow 6.8 percent a
year between 2010 and 2015 to reach $228 billion, according to
MarketsandMarkets, a marketing research firm based in  Dallas .  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901)  agreed to buy  SonoSite Inc. (SONO) , a
maker of portable ultrasound machines, for about $1 billion in
December and proposed a partnership with  Olympus Corp. (7733) , the
world’s biggest endoscope maker. Sony Corp. is considering an
investment in Olympus, after the Tokyo-based company admitted to
a $1.7 billion accounting fraud, according to the Nikkei
newspaper.  Asahi Kasei will  borrow  to finance the acquisition and
plans to secure more than 180 billion yen in syndicated loans,
Koji Fujiwara, a director at the company, said after the press
briefing in Tokyo. The loans will be arranged by UBS AG as early
as next month, he said.  Asahi Kasei signed a partnership with Zoll Medical and
began selling its automated external defibrillator in  Japan  in
August. The partnership led to the acquisition announced today,
Yoshida said.  UBS Investment Bank  is advising Asahi Kasei and Brown
Brothers Harriman is adviser to Zoll.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP  is the legal counsel of Asahi Kasei and Goodwin
Procter LLP is Zoll’s legal adviser.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  