-- Australia Regulator Declines to Probe Directors in RBA Units’ Bribery Case
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-03-12T02:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/asic-declines-to-probe-directors-in-bribery-case-at-reserve-bank-units.html
Australia ’s main stock market
regulator said it won’t conduct a formal investigation of
company directors involved in a federal bribery probe at note-
printing units of the central bank.  The Australian Securities & Investments Commission today
confirmed it received material from the Australian Federal
Police relating to bribery allegations at Securency
International Pty and Note Printing Australia Ltd.  “ASIC considers a range of factors when deciding to
investigate and possibly take enforcement action,” the
regulator said in a statement on its website. “ASIC has
reviewed this material from the AFP” and “has decided not to
proceed to a formal investigation.”  Securency, which is half-owned by the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia, and Note Printing Australia, which is fully owned by
the central bank, and seven people who worked at the companies,
face federal bribery charges over payments allegedly made in
 Malaysia ,  Indonesia  and Vietnam to secure banknote printing
contracts. It’s the first time anyone’s been prosecuted under
anti-bribery laws enacted in Australia in 2000.  Note Printing Australia is governed by a board of directors
appointed by the Reserve Bank. Securency’s board has three
directors appointed by the RBA. The central bank said in its
 annual report  last year that it had replaced its representatives
on the two companies’ boards after the bribery charges were
laid.  The RBA declined to immediately comment on the ASIC
statement.  ASIC said it wouldn’t provide any additional comments
beyond its statement.  Federal police charged the two companies and six people
July 1 over the alleged payments made to foreign public
officials from 1999 to 2005. A seventh man, accused of having
facilitated payments of A$17.2 million ($18.1 million) in
commissions to an agent in  Vietnam , was charged Aug. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  