-- Matisse’s Blue Nudes, Fishbowls Charm at Pompidou: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-03-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/matisse-s-blue-nudes-fishbowls-charm-in-pompidou-show-jorg-von-uthmann.html
“If I met a woman in the street
who looked like my paintings, I’d faint.”  It’s not clear which of his pictures Matisse had in mind
with that remark. There are plenty of candidates in the show
at the  Centre Pompidou  in Paris, so you can take your pick.  The exhibition is far smaller than the 1992 retrospective
at the  Museum of  Modern Art  in New York. It includes barely 70
works and confines itself to a particular aspect of Matisse’s
output -- pairs and series.  That painters vary the same theme again and again isn’t
unusual. Monet’s haystacks, poplars and cathedrals are famous
examples: His aim was to explore the change of light at
different times of the day.  Matisse wasn’t interested in the effects of light.  The two versions of the Pont Saint-Michel in Paris that
open the show mark the moment when he emancipated himself from
the Impressionists and Post-Impressionists: The forms were
simplified, and the colors became independent from nature.  When his father, a grain merchant, discovered the
stylistic turnaround at the 1901 Salon des Independants he cut
off his son’s allowance. At the 1905 Salon d’Automne, a
dismayed critic dubbed Matisse (1869-1954) and his soul mates
“fauves,” wild beasts.  Key Collectors  Fortunately, in the same year Matisse found more open-
minded sponsors -- the U.S. expatriates Leo, Gertrude and
Michael Stein and the Russian collectors Ivan Morozov and
Sergei Shchukin. Later, the drug manufacturer Alfred C. Barnes
from Philadelphia became an important backer.  There are 16 items in the show, which will later travel
to New York, that come from U.S. collections.  Some of Matisse’s most celebrated pairs were painted in
his Fauvist years -- such as “Le Luxe.” The second version
was done after a trip to  Italy  where he admired Giotto’s
frescoes in Padua: Its colors are even more vivid than those
in the first.  The difference between the two interiors with a goldfish
bowl, both from 1914, is that the second version is a close-up
of the first with the palette and the thumb of the artist
appearing on the canvas.  By then, the Fauvists had drifted apart, and Matisse had
developed his own, unmistakable style, not necessarily to the
delight of the critics: Many were repelled by his bold
distortions; others dismissed his pictures as easy on the eye
and superficial.  Not all of Matisse’s pairs were planned: In 1931, Barnes
commissioned “Dance,” a mural for his foundation in Merion,
 Pennsylvania . Because of an error in the measurements, it
turned out to be unusable, and Matisse had to do it again.  Seductive Model  The murals aren’t in the exhibition, nor are the
wonderful reclining nudes from the mid-1930s. When the ailing
Madame Matisse found out that the model, her hired companion
Lydia Delectorskaya, had become her husband’s mistress she got
up from her sickbed and walked out on him.  After a cancer operation, in 1941, Matisse himself was
confined to bed and a wheelchair for the rest of his life.
Finding painting increasingly difficult, he embarked on a new,
original kind of expression -- paper cutouts, arranged into
almost abstract forms.  The show ends with four of those cutouts: “Blue Nudes,”
from 1952, are a worthy conclusion to a glorious career.  “Matisse -- Paires et Series” is at the Pompidou Center
in Paris through June 18. Later, the show will be on view at
the  Statens Museum for Kunst  in Copenhagen (July 14-Oct. 28)
and the  Metropolitan Museum  in  New York  (Dec. 4-March 17,
2013). Information:  http://www.centrepompidou.fr ,
 http://www.smk.dk ,  http://www.metmuseum.org .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 