-- VW’s Audi Said to Be in Talks for Motorcycle Maker Ducati
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2012-03-13T16:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/audi-is-said-to-be-in-talks-to-buy-italian-luxury-motorcycle-maker-ducati.html
Audi AG (NSU)  is in talks to buy  Ducati
Motor Holding SpA (DMH) , the maker of luxury motorbikes ridden by
celebrities such as  Brad Pitt , from owner Investindustrial SpA,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  Audi, which has the right of first refusal on a purchase
until mid-April, is considering a total price of about 850
million euros ($1.12 billion) for the Italian company, said one
of the people, who declined to be identified discussing private
negotiations.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  Chairman  Ferdinand Piech  first publicly
expressed interest in buying Ducati in April 2008, eventually
losing out to current owner Investindustrial. Purchasing Ducati
would add a motorcycle maker to VW’s nine brands, which include
the Audi, Skoda and Lamborghini auto marques as well as heavy
truckmakers  Scania AB (SCVB)  and MAN SE. Ducati would complement Audi’s
luxury-car lineup with products such as the $28,000 Superbike
1199  Panigale S Tricolore .  “You really have to push the envelope to see obvious
benefits for a car company to own a motorcycle business,” said
Erich Hauser, a London-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.
One could be forgiven for seeing this as “just another attempt
by VW in empire building,” he said.  Ducati Earnings  Ducati, which sold about 42,000 bikes last year, posted a
39 percent increase in earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization to 93 million euros in 2011, said
a person familiar with the financial figures, who declined to be
named because the results have not yet been released. Revenue
rose 20 percent to 480 million euros.  The Milan-based private equity company may hold an initial
public offering of Ducati in  Hong Kong  this year or sell it to a
rival, two people familiar with the plans said last month.
Investindustrial is still considering both an IPO and the sale
of the company and no final decision has been taken on the
matter, a person familiar with the plan said today. The Bologna
based-company was delisted from the Milan exchange in 2008.  Ducati’s total liabilities are less than 200 million euros,
a spokesman for Investindustrial said today, declining to be
identified by name, citing company policy. He declined further
comment.  Audi must still do due diligence on the potential deal and
is about halfway through what will likely be about a two-month
process, one of the people said. Christine Ritz, head of VW
investor relations, said the carmaker doesn’t comment on market
speculation  Hero MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL) ,  India ’s biggest motorcycle maker, said
March 5 that Ducati is one of the assets it’s examining as it
looks for acquisitions to expand overseas.  No Interest  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , which already makes
motorcycles under the BMW brand, and Daimler AG both said today
they have no plans to bid for Ducati.  “We’re very happy with our existing cooperation between
AMG and Ducati,”  Marc Binder , a Daimler spokesman based in
Stuttgart, said in an interview. “We’re not interested in a
takeover of the company.”  Volkswagen Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said
yesterday at the carmaker’s annual meeting that he keeps his
eyes open to what’s for sale on the market, when asked about
whether VW was interested in buying Ducati.  Ducati, which was founded in Bologna in 1926, sells its
Superbike, Monster, Streetfighter, Hypermotard, Multistrada and
the new Diavel in 65 countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chad Thomas in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Heather Harris at   hharris5@bloomberg.net  