-- Mayer Says Portugal Bailout Talks May Start Again: Tom Keene
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-12T20:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/bailout-talks-for-portugal-may-begin-later-in-2012-mayer-says-tom-keene.html
Talks about a second international
bailout for Portugal may begin later this year, according to
 Thomas Mayer , chief economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London .  “With Portuguese bond yields still in the double digits,
this summer we will have a discussion about the need for a new
Portuguese program,” Mayer said today during an interview on
“Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene. The current plan is only
funded through September 2013, and the International Monetary
Fund “cannot disburse if a 12-month funding outlook is not
guaranteed,” he said.  Portugal’s 10-year bond  yielded  13.65 percent at 4:15 p.m.
in  New York , down from the euro-era record of 18.29 percent it
reached on Jan. 31. The yield was higher than the 2011 average
of 10.17 percent.  The Iberian nation is raising taxes and cutting spending as
it fights to meet the terms of its 78 billion-euro aid plan from
the European Union and the  International Monetary Fund  after it
followed Ireland and  Greece  in seeking a bailout last year.  Structural deficits in Italy and Spain, where yields have
also surged, will decline between 2 percent to 2.5 percent by
the end of this year because of austerity measures, Mayer said.
While the adjustments will probably produce a “significant”
recession in the first half of 2012, the hope and expectation is
that “these reforms will finally pay off and stabilize these
economies at the end of the year,” he said.  Struggling  “One should acknowledge that the new Spanish and the new
Italian governments have really done what the textbook would
prescribe for economies that have been struggling in a common
currency area,” he said.  Vitor Constancio, ECB vice president and former Bank of
Portugal governor, said March 8 that Portuguese austerity
measures were on track and Greece’s debt swap would not need to
be repeated. The following day, German Finance Minister  Wolfgang
Schaeuble  called Greece a “completely unique case.”  A new bailout would “resemble the discussion we had about
Greece in the summer of last year,” Mayer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  