-- Banks, Pension Funds to Shrink 2013 CO2’s Premium, Barclays Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-03-12T16:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/banks-pension-funds-to-shrink-2013-co2-s-premium-barclays-says.html
New lenders in the European Union
carbon market including banks and pension funds may narrow the
premium of 2013 futures compared with those for 2012, said
 Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Carbon permit spreads have widened to 6 to 7 percent above
the Euribor rate,  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst in London for
 Barclays Capital , said today in an e-mailed research note. “As
more new potential lenders enter the market, we expect some of
the super contango that is now present along the curve to begin
to be unwound,” he said.  The premium was unchanged today at 66 cents a metric ton,
which would match its lowest close since Jan. 30, according to
data from the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. A market in
contango has future-dated contracts that are more expensive than
those closer to expiration.  The premium widened to 83 cents on Feb. 27, the highest
level since Oct. 14. Factories, especially those in countries
with high levels of sovereign debt, have sold near-dated carbon
allowances and bought longer term because that may be a cheaper
way to raise finance, Sikorski said.  Banks and other investors are starting to realize that
there is little risk of rule changes in the carbon market that
would make lending against allowances risky, he said. “Recently
there has been a spate of new lenders approaching the market and
getting comfortable with the main issue around the trade, which
is the bankability of EU allowances between phase two and
three,” he said. “Such bankability really carries little
risk.”  Phase two of the market ends this year. From next year,
factories will continue to get most allowances for free, while
most power utilities will need to pay for all their permits,
according to the program’s rules.  Carbon allowances for December dropped 2.4 percent today to
7.90 euros a metric ton on ICE as of 3:41 p.m. in  London . They
earlier fell as low as 7.72 euros, the cheapest since Feb. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  