-- Barnes & Noble Names CFO With Spinoff Experience
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-03-12T20:40:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/barnes-noble-names-michael-huseby-cfo-in-digital-push.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  named former
cable television executive Michael Huseby chief financial
officer as the largest U.S. bookstore chain shifts toward
becoming more of a technology company.  The former CFO at  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  will oversee
Barnes & Noble’s capital structure and help boost its digital
business, the New York-based company said today in a statement.
Huseby replaces Joseph Lombardi, who resigned in October. Allen
Lindstrom had been CFO on an interim basis.  Huseby, who helped Cablevision spin off two units before
leaving in June, joins Barnes & Noble as it considers separating
its Nook digital unit into a separate company so investors will
give it the higher  valuation  of a technology business. The
company also is considering offering more detailed financial
reporting on the Nook’s performance.  “Appointing a CFO with significant tech, spinoff and
mergers-and-acquisitions experience suggests to us that Barnes &
Noble is continuing to look at unlocking the value of Nook,”
 David Schick , a Baltimore-based analyst for Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., wrote in a note to clients. He recommends buying the
shares.  Barnes & Noble rose 1.6 percent to $13.61 at the close in
New York. The shares have declined 6 percent this year.  $1.5 Billion Nook  While Barnes & Noble operates about 700 retail locations
and more than 600 college bookstores, its future growth lies in
electronic books. The company started its digital business in
2009 by selling e-books and releasing the Nook e-reader. The
company projects the Nook business will generate $1.5 billion in
sales in the fiscal year ending April 30, accounting for about
20 percent of its total revenue.  The retailer sells the second most e-books in the U.S.
after  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Barnes & Noble has sacrificed profits by
spending on developing devices, advertising and building
boutiques in stores to showcase the Nook. The company posted a
net loss of $70.6 million in the 12 months through January.  The losses and concern that Barnes & Noble won’t be able to
maintain spending to compete with Amazon and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , which
sells e-books through devices such as the iPad, has weighed on
its shares.  Sales from Barnes & Noble’s digital unit, which includes
Nook tablet computers, content and accessories, rose 38 percent
to $542 million in the quarter ended Jan. 28, while total sales
advanced 5 percent to $2.44 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  