-- Basel Group May Reach Deal on Changes to Bank Liquidity Rule
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-03-12T17:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/basel-group-may-agree-on-bank-liquidity-rule-changes-this-month.html
Global banking regulators will seek
an accord later this month on changes to draft liquidity rules
criticized by some governments and lenders as a threat to
economic recovery.  The measures will be considered at a meeting of the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  on March 20 and 21, Rene van Wyk, who represents South Africa’s central bank on the
committee, said in an interview.  The Basel group will “present some calibration points and
technical calculations” without changing the “fundamentals”
of the standard, he said. The group will also work on options
for toughening oversight of lenders whose failure could roil
domestic markets, he said.  The so-called liquidity coverage ratio is part of an
overhaul of bank regulation, known as Basel III, that was agreed
on by the committee to avoid a repeat of the events that led to
the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. It would
require lenders to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a
30-day credit squeeze.  The LCR plans have been attacked by some governments and
banks as overly restrictive as few assets other than sovereign
debt would be recognized as highly liquid.  The Association for Financial Markets in Europe, which
represents international banks including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  BNP
Paribas SA (BNP)  and  UBS AG (UBS) , has said that the measure may make it
harder for lenders to spread their risks, so making them more
vulnerable in a crisis, while also forcing them to curb some
lending.  Privileged Treatment  The “privileged treatment” of sovereign debt in the LCR
has “less and less justification,” said Markus Heidinger, a
partner dealing with financial regulation at law firm Wolf
Theiss in Vienna. “It increases the interdependency between
states and banks, and leaves private and commercial borrowers
out in the rain,” he said in an e-mail.  The LCR is scheduled to become binding on banks by the
start of 2015.  The Basel committee is caught between the fact that
“pushing banks to have all their liquidity in  government bonds 
does not make sense in light of the sovereign debt crisis, and
the fear of destabilizing a fragile market for sovereigns,”
said Jesper Berg, senior vice president at Nykredit A/S,
Denmark’s biggest mortgage bank.  South African Shortfall  South African lenders “seem to be short about 260 billion
rand ($34.3 billion),” in the liquid assets they would need to
meet the LCR, said Van Wyk, South Africa’s registrar of banks.
The figure is based on the assumption that five significant
banks would simultaneously have a ‘run’ by their depositors, he
said.  The run would be part of the hypothetical scenario used by
regulators to judge whether lenders are holding enough liquid
assets to cope with a stressed situation.  Denmark has said that the LCR, in the form proposed by the
Basel committee, would cause severe damage to its mortgage
market.  The Basel committee said in January that lenders should be
allowed to run down their stocks of liquid assets in crises. The
group said it is preparing detailed proposals on when lenders
should be allowed to take such action.  ‘Wishful Thinking’  “There have been expectations in continental  Europe  that
the Basel Committee would water down its stance on liquidity but
this was mostly wishful thinking,” said Nicolas Veron, a senior
fellow at Bruegel, a Brussels-based economics research group.  “European banks need to realize that meaningful liquidity
standards are desired by a broad majority of G-20 countries and
Basel Committee members, even though Europe itself appears to be
more divided on the issue,” Veron said.  The Basel committee brings together bank regulators from
27 nations including the U.S., U.K. and  China  to set prudential
rules for lenders.  Van Wyk said regulators at this month’s meeting will also
discuss another proposed liquidity rule, known as a net stable-
funding ratio, that would force banks to finance part of their
long-term lending from sources that are unlikely to dry up in a
crisis. The ratio is scheduled to become binding on banks at the
start of 2018.  Stable Funding  It is “probably unlikely” that all  South Africa ’s banks
can find the stable funding they would need to fully meet the
NSFR standard, he said. “We’re not alone,” he said. “We have
a task team looking at it and seeing if we can close the gap.”  Regulators at the Basel meeting will discuss possible
tougher rules for lenders whose collapse would harm their
national economies, Van Wyk said.  The measures would mark an extension of an agreement last
year by the Group of 20 countries to impose capital surcharges
and tougher oversight on lenders, known as G-SIFIs, whose
failure would threaten global stability.  “Some work has been done and it will follow the same sort
of rules as the G-SIFIs,” Van Wyk said. The Basel committee is
scheduled to publish a progress report on the new rules by next
month.  Regulators next month will also begin joint probes into how
well Basel III is being implemented in U.S., EU and  Japan , Van
Wyk said. These so-called peer reviews will be completed by
June. Basel accords need to be enshrined in national laws before
they can be applied.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net 
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  