-- Biggest G-20 Current-Account Deficit Stalls Rally in Bonds: Turkey Credit
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2012-03-13T09:11:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/biggest-g-20-current-account-deficit-stalls-rally-turkey-credit.html
The biggest bond rally in emerging
markets may be derailed by  Turkey ’s  current-account deficit , the
largest among the Group of 20 countries.  The deficit unexpectedly stayed at $6 billion in January
compared with a year ago, central bank data published yesterday
in Ankara showed. That undermined predictions by policy makers
of an improvement and revived investor concern that Turkey may
struggle to finance the gap. Global oil prices have risen more
than 7 percent this year, raising costs in a country that
imports nearly all its energy.  Two-year benchmark bonds  denominated in liras fell for a
second day, driving yields 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage
point, higher to 9.32 percent, according to the Turk Ekonomi
Bankasi AS index of the securities yesterday. The lira weakened
for a second day to 1.7945, the lowest since Jan. 25.  “We’re quite worried about the current-account deficit and
I think this number confirms our belief that you should be very
concerned about the situation in Turkey,” Jens Thellesen, who
helps manage about $1.5 billion in emerging-market debt at Jyske
Bank A/S in Silkeborg,  Denmark , said yesterday. “We think the
risk reward is better in other countries.”  The difference in yield investors demand to own Turkish
dollar debt rather than Treasuries dropped six basis points, or
0.06 percentage point, to 300 basis points today, the lowest
this year, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
index. The overall index of major emerging-market debt fell
three basis points to 336.  Turkish bonds due in two years rebounded today, with yields
declining three basis points to 9.29 percent at 10:55 a.m. in
Istanbul. The lira strengthened 0.3 percent to 1.7913 against
the dollar.  Achilles Heel  The current account and inflationary effect of imports has
been the Achilles heel in Turkey’s burgeoning economy. Gross
domestic product expanded 8.5 percent last year, Economy
Minister Zafer Caglayan estimated Feb. 28. That’s a percentage
point faster than targeted and second only to  China  in the Group
of 20 major economies.  The government’s medium-term economic plan, announced on
Oct. 14, sees the current-account deficit narrowing to 8 percent
of GDP this year and 7.5 percent in 2013. It was 10 percent of
estimated GDP last year, making it the largest as a proportion
of the size of a country’s economy in the G20, according to
International Monetary Fund forecasts.  “A contraction to 8 percent isn’t something that can be
cited as an accomplishment,” Aziz Unan, who manages about $55
million of assets in the Ottoman Fund for Renaissance Asset
Managers in  London , said in a March 9 telephone interview. “The
sustainable level for Turkey’s current-account gap over the next
five years is 4 percent to 5 percent, assuming a lot of foreign
funds flowing into the country and no contraction.”  Lira Rebounds  Still, the yield on Turkish bonds has fallen 169 basis
points this year, the most among 15  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg, and the lira rallied as weakening industrial output
and slowing inflation signaled central bank Governor Erdem Basci
may be succeeding in restraining domestic demand.  The 12-month rolling current-account deficit has been
declining since reaching at a record $78.6 billion in October.
It fell to $77.8 billion in January.  “The number was more than expected but it was in line with
the recent trend and the expectation is for the current-account
deficit to remain wide,”  Jerome Booth , head of research at
Ashmore Investment Management with $60 billion of assets in
emerging markets, said in a phone interview from London.
“Moreover, the government seems to be comfortable with that.”  Yields on two-year  government bonds  may now hit 9.5
percent, though are unlikely to make it to double digits,
according to Cem Tozge, who manages the equivalent of $57
million at Ata Asset Management in Istanbul.  Turkey Attracts  “When you look at Turkey’s macro picture, notwithstanding
the current-account deficit, it’s much stronger than its
peers,” Tozge said by telephone. “Turkey would attract foreign
investments once again in a high-yield environment.”  Limits on credit growth and a weaker lira are narrowing the
deficit and cheap lending by the U.S. Federal Reserve and the
 European Central Bank  mean financing for the current account is
plentiful, according to central bank forecasts released Jan. 31.  Economic growth in the country of 75 million boosted tax
revenue last year, allowing the government to report a budget
deficit of 1.4 percent of GDP, the smallest gap since 2006. The
ratio of debt to GDP probably fell below 40 percent, according
to the government, compared with 74 percent when Prime Minister
 Recep Tayyip Erdogan  took office.  Energy Imports  A decline in the deficit is predicated on the government’s
forecast of $49.5 billion in annual energy imports this year.
Rising global  oil prices  could drive the import bill for oil and
gas to $65 billion, Economy Minister Caglayan said March 7.
Energy made up 22 percent of Turkish imports last year, or $54.1
billion, according to the statistics office.  The record current-account deficit helped drive the lira 18
percent lower against the dollar last year, the biggest drop
among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The temptation is to focus on the non-energy deficit,
which is improving as the economy does rebalance as growth
slows,” Tim Ash, the London-based chief of emerging markets at
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in an e-mailed report
today. “The reality is that the full current-account deficit
has to be financed, including the energy deficit which seems to
be rising and is in any event very much structural in nature.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net ;
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  