-- BOE’s Fisher Says Policy Makers Face Trade-Offs With New Powers
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-03-12T19:15:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/boe-s-fisher-says-policy-makers-face-trade-offs-with-new-powers.html
Bank of England  markets director
 Paul Fisher  said the bank’s new financial-stability powers may
create trade-offs as officials try to balance strengthening
banks with maintaining support for economic growth.  The central bank’s interim Financial Policy Committee holds
its fourth meeting on March 16, and will recommend to Parliament
the tools it would like to have to improve the stability of the
financial system. Fisher sits on that panel, as well as on the
 Monetary Policy Committee (UKAPTARG) , which this month held its bond-
purchase target at 325 billion pounds ($508 billion).  “Although I think conflict between the policies of the MPC
and FPC is unlikely, that does not mean there won’t be difficult
choices and trade-offs for each committee to wrestle with,”
Fisher said in a speech in  London  today. Officials “are trying
to address this by, for example, balancing appropriate targets
for capital and liquidity in the medium-term with a long
transition period to meet them. That should help ensure that
banks don’t need to rush to meet these stability objectives in
the short-term, at the expense of lending to the real economy.”  Fisher also said the FPC may struggle to “assuage fear on
the way down” if it tried to, for example, get banks to relax
capital ratios while in an environment where investors are
“looking nervously” at lenders’ buffers.  “Somehow, macroprudential policies, whilst alerting
everyone to the very real risks facing them, need to support
confidence in returning the financial system to a sustainable
path,” he said.  New Tools  The FPC will advise the Treasury on what tools it needs to
ensure financial stability after its meeting this week. Fisher
said that where the panel has power to direct regulators to
implement its decisions, “tools will need to be effective at
addressing systemic risk, efficient in not generating unwanted
spillovers, specific and transparent.” The FPC will also make
recommendations on a “comply or explain” basis, and advise the
government on the range of activities that should be regulated
by keeping a “close eye” on so-called shadow banking.  A press statement of the FPC’s meeting this week will be
published on March 23, and a record on March 28.  “Overall it is still early days for the FPC, and there
remain significant challenges going forward,” Fisher said.
“Most pressingly, we need to do what we can to ensure that the
U.K. banking system increases its resilience to shocks,
particularly given the backdrop of subdued domestic growth and
the precarious economic situation in some European countries.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  