-- Bank of America, MERS Ask Court to Dismiss Texas Counties’ Mortgage Suit
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-03-12T20:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/bofa-mers-ask-court-to-dismiss-texas-counties-mortgage-suits.html
Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc. and  Bank of America Corp.  asked a court to dismiss
a lawsuit brought by Texas counties accusing MERS of filing
false claims in property records.  The counties allege Merscorp Inc.’s MERS was established by
lenders including Bank of America to avoid paying filing fees as
well as to ease mortgage transfers. The Texas Legislature
approved of MERS’s appearance as a mortgagee in filings in
county land records, the defendants said in a filing March 9 in
federal court in Dallas.  “No false, fraudulent or otherwise wrongful activity
occurred by filing security instruments naming MERS as
beneficiary or mortgagee,” MERS and the bank said in their
motion to dismiss. “There is no duty to record assignments, or
other documents, since Texas’s property recording system is
permissive not mandatory.”  MERS tracks servicing rights and ownership interests in
 mortgage loans  on its registry, allowing banks to buy and sell
loans without recording transfers with counties. Dallas County
claimed that this system has cost it as much as $100 million in
unpaid fees. The county initially sued in September, alleging
that MERS cheated it out of uncollected filing fees.  Revised Suit  Dallas County District Attorney Craig Watkins revised the
lawsuit Oct. 31 as a class action, or group case, seeking to
represent all other Texas counties in which a deed of trust has
been filed identifying MERS as a beneficiary.  “Contrary to the defendants’ contentions, the legislature
has not approved MERS’ appearance as the ‘mortgagee’ in the
filings in the real property records of Texas counties,”
Watkins said in an e-mail today. “Rather, the legislature
simply approved MERS acting on behalf of lenders in conducting
non-judicial foreclosures.”  Harris County, which includes Houston, and nearby Brazoria
County won court approval last week to join the  Dallas  suit.  Harris County disagrees with the contention that MERS has
statutory permission to operate as it has, John Odam, a county
assistant district attorney, said in an interview today.  “We analyzed the legal basis for our claim and feel we
have a good claim,” he said.  The case is Dallas County v. Merscorp Inc., 11-cv-02733,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Korosec in Dallas at  tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 