-- Bombed Iraqi Car Joins Graffiti in London Show by Artist Deller
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-03-12T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/bombed-iraqi-car-joins-graffiti-in-london-show-by-artist-deller-interview.html
The remains of a car that was
wrecked in an Iraq blast is sitting inside a London gallery.  The vehicle was destroyed by a car bomb in Baghdad in March
2007 that killed three dozen people. The rusty carcass is part
of a career survey at the  Hayward Gallery  of the British artist
Jeremy Deller, 45, who expresses himself through one-offs:
performances, actions, events.  Deller’s original idea was to park a bombed-out Iraqi car
on an empty sculpture plinth in  Trafalgar Square  that artists
temporarily fill. Turned down, Deller towed the wreckage of the
car around the U.S., accompanied by an Iraqi translator and a
U.S. Army propaganda officer, both with frontline experience.  “People in America were much more understanding than I
thought,” says Deller of a monthlong trip he terms the most
amazing time of his life. “I was basically bringing a piece of
evidence over to show them, and on the whole, we had incredible
conversations.”  “As soon as people started talking to the soldier and the
Iraqi, they very quickly realized that we had different motives
than what they might have thought,” he says. “We weren’t
making an activist political statement.”  I sit with Deller beside the wrecked Iraqi car. It was
given to him after the artist had trouble accessing the  Baghdad 
site where all destroyed vehicles go for forensic purposes.  Police Clashes  Two decades after staging an exhibition in his bedroom,
Deller -- winner of the 2004  Turner Prize  -- is still busy
creating action-based art. In his best-known work, “The Battle
of Orgreave” (2001), he re-enacted violent June 1984 clashes
between police and striking miners. His cast of 1,000 included
ex-miners from the original fight.  “I remember it very clearly, and at the time thinking this
is totally wrong,” he says of the 1984 confrontation. “It was
a political awakening, really, for a young person.”  Is he a political artist?  “That’s a killer label,” he says with a wince.  The show opens on a much cheerier note: with a recreation
of the 1993 exhibition he had at his parents’ south  London  home,
where he lived till he was 31 because “it was cheap and easy.”
The room has a bedstead marked “God Less America,” T-shirts
bearing tabloid headlines (“My Booze Hell,” “My Drug Shame”)
and classy cards sent to teenage aristocrats inviting them to
meet a group of football hooligans known as the Chelsea Smilers.  A reconstituted toilet nearby has crude graffiti that
Deller copied down from the men’s room at the British Library
and printed in his book “Pensees.”  Warhol Encounter  The show makes scant reference to Deller’s 1986 encounter
with  Andy Warhol  at a London gallery. He was invited to the Ritz
Hotel two nights later, and found the artist and friends
watching “Benny Hill” with the sound turned off and Roxy Music
turned on.  The two weeks he subsequently spent at Warhol’s Factory
were, he says in the catalog, as formative as two degrees. They
taught him that “an artist can do whatever he or she wants.
There are no limits.” Hoping to return to the Factory full
time, he was “devastated” by the news of Warhol’s death.  Though he belongs to the generation of the now-expensive
Young British Artists ( Damien Hirst , Tracey Emin), Deller was
never one of them, and has few dealings with the market. Doesn’t
that make him an anomaly?  “The majority of artists don’t have a relationship to the
market,” he replies. “In a way I’m the norm and they’re not.”  Deller’s next projects are a big interactive sculpture
called “ Sacrilege ” for a festival in Glasgow in April -- he’ll
say no more -- and a show next year on the Industrial Revolution
and how it changed British culture.  Any comment planned on the global financial crisis?  “It’s like when Chairman Mao was asked about the French
Revolution,” says Deller. “He said something like, ‘It’s too
early to say.’”  “Jeremy Deller: Joy in People” is at the Hayward Gallery,
Southbank Centre, Belvedere Road, SE1 8XX, through May 13.
Information: +44 844 875 0073 or
 http://ticketing.southbankcentre.co.uk/jeremy-deller   (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at  Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 