-- Brazil Real Weakens on Currency Measure, Slower Chinese Exports
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-03-12T13:51:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/brazil-real-weakens-on-currency-measure-slower-chinese-exports.html
Brazil ’s real declined to the
weakest level in two months after the government extended a tax
on foreign loans and bonds by local companies to curb the
currency’s gains and Chinese exports grew at a slower pace than
forecast, damping global growth optimism.  The real fell 0.9 percent to 1.8077 per  U.S. dollar  at
10:32 a.m. in Sao Paulo, from 1.7912 on March 9. It earlier
touched 1.8177 per dollar, the weakest level since Jan. 10. The
yield on the interest-rate futures contract due in January rose
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.67 percent.  Brazil imposed a 6 percent so-called IOF tax on foreign
loans and bonds by local companies with a duration of as much as
five years, according to a decree published today in the
official gazette. Previously the IOF financial transactions tax
only applied to foreign borrowing of as many as three years.
 China , Brazil’s biggest trading partner, reported the biggest
trade deficit in at least 22 years, signaling weakened global
demand.  “The arsenal that the government is using should help
sustain the dollar,” said  Francisco Carvalho , currency director
at Liquidez DTVM in Sao Paulo. “The external environment also
helps to push up the dollar.”  Exports from China rose 18.4 percent last month from a year
earlier, while imports gained 39.6 percent. Analysts forecast a
31.1 percent increase in overseas sales and that inbound
shipments would rise 31.8 percent, based on estimates from
Bloomberg News surveys.  ‘Sustainable Level’  Brazil’s real needs to lose 20 percent to reach a
“sustainable level,”  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman Sachs
Asset Management, said in an interview in  London  today.  “Brazil’s biggest cyclical challenge is to get rid of the
strength of the real,” O’Neill said.  Interest-rate futures yields rose for the first time in two
weeks after a central bank survey showed analysts covering the
Brazilian economy forecast consumer prices will rise 5.5 percent
next year, up from an estimate of 5.2 percent the previous week.  “The Focus forecast rose a lot,”  Solange Srour , chief
economist at BNY Mellon ARX Investimentos, said by phone from
 Rio de Janeiro . The central bank’s decision to cut the benchmark
rate by 75 basis points last week “changed the market’s mind.”  Central bankers led by President Alexandre Tombini stepped
up the pace of interest-rate cuts on March 7, cutting the
benchmark overnight rate 75 basis points to 9.75 percent, to
help spur growth and diminish the allure of the country’s fixed-
income assets. Policy makers have lowered the rate 275 basis
points since August.  Brazil’s central bank will cut the Selic rate to 9 percent
by the end of the year, down from 9.5 percent a week earlier,
according to the median forecast in the March 9 central bank
survey of about 100 economists published today. Analysts expect
the bank to raise the rate to 10 percent by year-end 2013.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  