-- Brazil Real Needs to Lose 20% to Be ‘Sustainable’, Goldman’s O’Neill Says
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-03-12T19:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/brazil-real-needs-to-lose-20-to-be-sustainable-goldman-s-o-neill-says.html
Jim O’Neill , chairman of  Goldman
Sachs Asset Management (GSIT) , lent his support to Brazilian policy
makers’ efforts to weaken the real, saying it needs to decline
20 percent to keep Latin America’s biggest economy competitive.  “Brazil’s biggest cyclical challenge is to get rid of the
strength of the real,” O’Neill, 54, said in an interview in
London today. O’Neill, who created the BRIC acronym in 2001 to
describe the emerging markets of Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and
 China , said the currency needs to lose a fifth of its value to
be “sustainable.”  The real strengthened 8.7 percent in the first two months
of the year against the  U.S. dollar , the most among the 16 most-
traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Since the start of this
month, when  Brazil  boosted efforts to contain the rally, it was
the worst performer in the world, falling 5.2 percent, including
today’s 1.1 percent drop.  A stronger currency hurts exporters by making goods more
expensive in dollar terms. Brazil today introduced its latest
measure to stem capital flows into the country, extending a 6
percent tax on foreign loans and bonds issued abroad to include
lending with a duration of as much as five years. The tax, which
originally applied to foreign borrowing of up to two years, had
already been extended on March 1 to include a duration of three
years or less.  ‘Monetary Tsunami’  President Dilma Rousseff last week pledged to take all
necessary measures to shield the economy from a “monetary
tsunami” caused by what she said were efforts by  Europe  and the
U.S. to “artificially devalue” their currencies.  Investors and exporters have poured $15.5 billion into
Brazil since the beginning of the year, contributing to gains in
the currency, compared with an outflow of $3 billion in the
fourth quarter of 2011, according to the central bank’s website.  Central Bank President Alexandre Tombini’s March 7 decision
to cut the country’s benchmark Selic  interest rate  by 75 basis
points, or 0.75 percentage point, to 9.75 percent was “good,”
O’Neill said. At 4.28 percent, Brazil’s inflation-adjusted rate
is the highest in the Group of 20 nations after Russia,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The real fell to 1.8093 per U.S. dollar at 4:10 p.m. in  Sao
Paulo , from 1.7912 on March 9. The currency reached a 12-year
high of 1.5290 per dollar in July 2011.  Adjusted for inflation, the  exchange rate  has more than
doubled against its trading partners since 2001, according to
 JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Real Broad Effective Exchange Rate Index (JBXRBRL) .  Imports  The currency’s strength erodes the competitiveness of
Brazil’s manufacturers and spurs demand for cheaper imports. Car
imports surged 30 percent last year, accounting for 23.6 percent
of vehicles licensed compared with 18.8 percent in 2010.
 Industrial production  fell 3.4 percent in January from a year
ago, the most since September 2009.  To stem the currency’s rally, Brazilian policy makers in
the past two years have raised taxes on foreign investors in the
local fixed-income market, boosted costs for domestic companies
to borrow abroad, lowered the benchmark interest rate and
imposed a tax on trading currency derivatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in  London  at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  