-- Teixeira Quits as Brazil Soccer Chief Two Years Before World Cup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-03-13T03:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/brazil-soccer-chief-teixeira-quits-two-years-before-nation-hosts-world-cup.html
Ricardo Teixeira resigned as head
of the Brazilian soccer federation two years before the country
hosts the  World Cup , ending a 23-year tenure marked by an
unmatched championship record during that period and accusations
of corruption off the field.  Teixeira, who has suffered bouts of ill health this year,
took Brazil to two victories from three World Cup finals, even
as he faced investigations by Brazil’s Congress over alleged
irregularities. The British Broadcasting Corp. named him as a
beneficiary of bribes paid by FIFA’s bankrupt former marketing
partner ISL in a separate case. He has denied the allegations.  “I did what was within my reach, sacrificing my health,”
Teixeira, 64, said in a  written statement  yesterday. “I was
criticized in the losses and undervalued in the victories.”  Planning for the 2014 edition of sport’s most-watched
tournament has faced troubles including a deteriorating
relationship between soccer’s world governing body and the
Brazilian government. Last week, FIFA President Sepp Blatter
issued an apology after  Jerome Valcke , general secretary of the
Zurich-based organization, said Brazil needed a “kick up the
ass” to be ready for the tournament. A planned inspection visit
scheduled for next week has been canceled.  Teixeira resigned yesterday as both president of Brazil’s
soccer federation, or CBF, and as head of the organizing
committee for the 2014 World Cup, according to the CBF press
office in  Rio de Janeiro . He was replaced in both posts by his
vice president and former Sao Paulo governor Jose Maria Marin.  The  BBC  has also accused other FIFA officials, including
 Joao Havelange , Teixeira’s former father-in-law who preceded him
as CBF head, of accepting payments. He denies the charge.  Teixeira A ‘Cancer’  “We can celebrate,” Romario De Souza Faria, a former
 Brazil  striker who is currently a lawmaker, wrote on his
Facebook page. “We have exterminated a cancer from Brazilian
football. Finally Ricardo Teixeira resigned from the CBF.”  Teixeira had been head of the CBF since 1989 and sat on
FIFA’s decision making executive committee since 1994. That body
has found itself engulfed in corruption claims against several
of its members since the 2010 vote for future World Cup hosts.
At one point, almost half of its 24 members were either
sanctioned or faced accusations of corruption. A year later
FIFA’s presidential election ended with the only challenger to
Blatter, Mohamed Bin Hammam, dropping out after being accused of
paying $40,000 to Caribbean voters. Bin Hammam is appealing to
sports’ top court against a life ban from soccer.  Cleaning Up  Teixeira’s resignation comes at a time when FIFA is
attempting to reform itself.  A group set up last year headed by Swiss lawyer Mark Pieth,
including former U.K. Attorney General Peter Goldsmith and U.S.
soccer chief Sunil Gulati, has yet to determine whether it will
look into past allegations of wrongdoing.  FIFA has also delayed the publication of documents that
name officials of the organization who have allegedly received
bribes linked to ISL, according to the Zurich-based body.  Brazil’s Congress investigated Teixeira a decade ago for
allegedly profiting from contracts signed between the CBF and
 Nike Inc. (NKE)  After a three-year inquiry, the Senate approved a
report detailing financial irregularities by 17 of the country’s
top soccer officials, including Teixeira.  Federal prosecutors said there wasn’t enough evidence in
the 1,600-page report that described allegations of  money
laundering ,  tax evasion  and the falsification of documents to
take the matter to trial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  