-- Brazil Mobile Fees May Fall 80% Through 2018, Regulator Says
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-03-12T14:11:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/brazil-mobile-fees-may-fall-80-through-2018-regulator-says.html
Fees charged by  Brazil ’s mobile
carriers may drop almost 80 percent through 2018 as the
country’s regulator seeks to catch up with other nations’ moves
to cut prices and boost competition in the industry.  The mobile interconnection fee, or VU-M, may fall to 10
centavos (5.6 cents) a minute from the current 48 centavos a
minute, should an analysis of a new cost model be approved,
Emilia Ribeiro, commissioner of Brazil’s telecommunications
regulator, known as Anatel, said in an interview in Brasilia on
March 7.  Interconnection fees are what carriers charge to
competitors in exchange for accepting incoming calls to their
networks. While reductions would result in lower prices for
consumers, mobile phone price cuts in Brazil are lagging behind
those of other nations, including Spain and Mexico, which have
already halved interconnection fees.  “It’s incredibly slow,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in London, in a phone
interview. “It favors the largest players.”  The government plans to negotiate fees with the four
biggest mobile-phone carriers, which collected 21.3 billion
reais ($11.9 billion) in interconnection fees in 2010, with two-
thirds generated from calls between mobile phones and the
remainder on calls from land lines to mobiles, according to
Ribeiro.  Fee Reductions  Telefonica Brasil SA (TLPP3) , a unit of Madrid-based  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
is Brazil’s biggest mobile carrier, followed by  Telecom Italia
SpA (TIT) ’s  Tim Participacoes SA (TCSL4)  unit, America Movil SAB and  Tele
Norte Leste Participacoes SA (TNLP3) , known as Oi. Approval for the new
cost model isn’t due until next year and fee reductions may not
start until 2014, Ribeiro said.  America Movil, Tim and Oi declined to comment on the
government plan, according to officials who can’t be named under
their companies’ policies. Phone and e-mail messages to
Telefonica Brasil’s press office weren’t answered.  The regulator’s 10 centavo-a-minute target fee compares
with a current average fee of 6.2 cents a minute charged by 33
members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. The U.S.,  Mexico , Israel, Turkey, Korea and
Portugal charge less than 5 cents, according to OECD data
 released  this month.  In Mexico, phone regulators cut the interconnection fee
last year by more than half to 39 Mexican centavos (3.1 cents).  “The reduction of interconnection fees is urgent for the
growth of the country,” Ribeiro said. “We should already have
been reducing this rate, even if it was just 1 percent a year.”  Highest Rates  Brazil has some of the highest phone rates in the world
when the size of economies and populations is taken into
account, trailing only Nigeria and South Africa, according to
research by Bernstein.  “The more gradual the rates come down, the better it is
for the bigger operators,”  Christopher King , an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said by telephone. “As you
cut rates, you’re reducing incremental operating cash flow, so
it’s meaningful.”  Interconnection fees were created in Brazil to help mobile-
phone operators build their infrastructure, Ribeiro said. Today,
they’re used to subsidize prepaid users, who make up about 80
percent of Brazil’s mobile-phone customers, she said.  Telefonica Brasil dropped 1.2 percent to 54.03 reais at
11:06 a.m. in  Sao Paulo . Oi dropped 1.3 percent to 22.96 reais,
and Tim fell 0.3 percent to 10.74 reais.  America Movil (AMXL)  slid
0.8 percent to 14.82 pesos in Mexico City.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia  at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  