-- Brazil Extends Tax on Foreign Borrowing as Rousseff Escalates Currency War
-- B y   T e l m a   M a r o t t o   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-03-12T15:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/brazil-extends-6-iof-tax-on-foreign-borrowing-of-as-many-as-five-years.html
Brazil  extended a 6 percent tax on
foreign loans and bonds issued abroad by local companies to
include lending with a duration as long as five years, the third
measure taken this month to weaken the real.  The 6 percent tax, which was originally applied to foreign
borrowing of as long as two years, had already been extended on
March 1 to loans and bonds with a duration of three years. The
central bank the same day extended the tax to some loans granted
to exporters.  President  Dilma Rousseff  pledged last week to take all
necessary measures to protect  Latin America ’s biggest economy
from what she dubbed a “monetary tsunami” unleashed by rich
nations seeking to devalue their currencies. Since Brazil
started escalating efforts March 1 to contain a rally in the
real, it has been the worst performing currency among the 16
most-traded tracked by Bloomberg.  “The arsenal that the government is using should help
sustain the dollar,” said  Francisco Carvalho , currency director
at Liquidez DTVM in Sao Paulo. “The external environment also
helps to push up the dollar.”  The real fell 1.4 percent to 1.8168 per  U.S. dollar  at
12:44 p.m. in Sao Paulo and earlier traded at a two-month low of
1.8193. Since March 1, the currency has weakened 5.6 percent.  Higher Yields  The central bank is also reducing the benchmark  interest
rate  to discourage investors seeking higher yields from entering
Brazil, Rousseff told journalist Luis Nassif, who published
parts of the interview on his  blog .  Today’s measure aims at reducing the flow of “speculative
capital” that enter Brazil seeking higher returns than those
offered by advanced economies, the  Finance Ministry  said in an
e-mailed statement today.  The higher tax on foreign loans and bonds seeks to
“restrain the foreign capital inflow for short-term investments
in the country,” the ministry said in the statement.  Policy makers led by central bank President Alexandre Tombini sped up the pace of interest rate cuts last week,
reducing the Selic by 0.75 percentage point after cutting it by
half a point at each of their previous four meetings. The bank’s
board trimmed the rate to 9.75 percent, bringing it to less than
10 percent for the second time since inflation targeting was
adopted in 1999.  Investors and exporters have plowed $15.5 billion into
Brazil since the beginning of the year, compared with an outflow
of $3 billion in the last quarter of 2011, according to the
central bank’s website.  Brazil’s inflation-adjusted interest rate is 3.91 percent,
the second highest after  Russia  amid the Group of 20 most
industrialized nations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Telma Marotto in  Sao Paulo  at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at pr
 asoliani@bloomber.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net . 