-- Cameron Announces State-Backed 95% Loans for New Build Homes
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   R o b   H u t t o n
-- 2012-03-12T15:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/cameron-to-announce-u-k-state-backed-95-mortgage-loans-for-new-housing.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said today that state-backed mortgages will allow buyers with
small cash deposits to get loans for as much as 95 percent of
the value of a newly built home.  To spur housing construction, the government will
underwrite part of the loan to buyers of new properties. Instead
of the typical 40,000-pound ($63,000) deposit they needed
previously for a 200,000-pound property, people will be able to
purchase a house with a deposit of about 10,000 pounds.  Cameron’s office estimated the program will help as many as
100,000 buyers and support an estimated 50,000 jobs in
construction and related industries. Lenders including  Barclays
Plc (BARC) ,  Nationwide Building Society  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) ’s NatWest Home Loans Ltd. will offer mortgages under
the government proposals, the Council of Mortgage Lenders said
in an e-mailed statement.  “I want us to build more homes and I want more people to
have the chance to own their own home,” Cameron said today.
“It’s no good hoping people will climb the property ladder if
the bottom rung is missing. Affordable properties and available
mortgages are vital.”  The government program will help those buying a home for
the first time as well as those seeking bigger properties,
according to Mike Farley, the chief executive officer of
 Persimmon Plc (PSN) , the U.K.’s largest homebuilder by market value.  ‘No Salary Cap’  “It has no salary cap and is available to purchasers of
new homes up to the value of 500,000 pounds,” Farley said by e-
mail. “Initial rates from the large high-street lenders to
support this product look very favorable.”  Homebuilders and the government will underwrite the first 9
percent of any loss made on a default allowing lenders to offer
a 95 percent loan to value mortgage with the same risk as a loan
at 85 percent, according to Liberum Capital analyst  Charlie Campbell .  “Lending to new build might rise by 10 percent,” Campbell
said by e-mail. “In the three months to September 2011, only
1.7 percent of loans advanced were at 90 percent loan to value
or more, compared to 15 percent in early 2007.”  About 20,000 people in  England  have registered with  Barratt
Developments Plc (BDEV) , the U.K.’s largest homebuilder by volume, to
buy their homes using state-backed mortgages, the company said
in an e-mailed statement.  Single Family Housing  Homebuilders have moved their focus away from high volume
development and toward larger, single family housing with wider
margins after facing hundreds of millions of pounds of
writedowns and falling sales in the aftermath of the housing
collapse in 2007.  Some developers obtained planning permission for apartment
projects in urban locations that were acquired before the U.K.’s
housing market peaked, according to Jon Neale, a London-based
residential research director for Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  “These are not viable in the current climate, and there
could be concerns if the NewBuy Guarantee is solely used for
such sites,” Neale said today by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 