-- Canadian Stocks Decline on Chinese Exports Data
-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 2012-03-12T20:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/canadian-stocks-decline-on-chinese-exports-data.html
Canadian stocks  fell for the first
time in four days as fuels and metals dropped after  China 
reported a smaller gain in exports than most economists in a
Bloomberg survey had forecast.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , Canada’s largest oil and gas producer,
lost 3.1 percent as the fuels declined on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s second-biggest
gold producer by market value, decreased 1.4 percent as precious
metals retreated.  Viterra Inc. (VT) , Canada’s largest grain handler,
rose 6.4 percent after an analyst at Bank of Montreal said the
company may be bought for as much as C$17.50 a share.  The  S&P/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  slipped 75.61 points, or 0.6
percent, to 12,428.01.  “There’s been a number of cautionary straws in the wind,
such as the slowdown in China: How deep is it?”  Bob Decker , a
 money manager  at Aurion Capital in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview. The firm oversees about $5.5 billion. “If you’re
looking for growth, and equity markets typically live and die on
growth, you’re going to have to see it somewhere, and emerging
markets are where most people are expecting a resumption of
growth to be most robust.”  The index fell 1.8 percent in the previous two weeks in its
first back-to-back weekly decline since Dec. 16 as commodity
producers dropped with the prices of oil, natural gas and
precious metals. Energy and raw-materials companies make up 47
percent of Canadian stocks by market value, according to
Bloomberg data.  Missing Forecasts  Chinese exports  increased 18 percent in February from a
year earlier, the country’s customs bureau said March 10.
Economists had forecast a gain of 31 percent, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. China also reported
smaller-than-forecast increases in retail sales and industrial
production for February last week.  Crude oil futures retreated for the first time in four
days, while natural gas slipped on forecasts for above-normal
temperatures in the U.S.  Suncor lost 3.1 percent to C$33.19.  Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-largest energy company by
market value, decreased 3.1 percent to C$34.40. Canadian Oil
Sands Ltd., the largest owner of the Syncrude project, slipped
2.6 percent to C$21.86.  Precious-metals producers in the S&P/TSX retreated as gold
and silver fell on the Comex in  New York .  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,
the world’s largest gold-mining company, dropped 0.4 percent to
C$45.29, extending its streak of losses to nine days. Goldcorp
declined 1.4 percent to C$46.25.  New Gold Inc. (NGD) , which mines in
Mexico, the U.S. and  Australia , slumped 4.9 percent to C$10.06.  Junior Gold Index  China Gold International Resources Corp. soared 19 percent,
the most since October 2009, to C$4.56. The surge probably
reflects Van Eck Associates Corp.’s increase in China Gold’s
weighting in the Market Vectors Junior Gold Miners Index, which
is used for a $2.41 billion exchange-traded fund, Marcus Xu,
director of equity investments at Genus Capital Management in
 Vancouver , said in a telephone interview. Xu’s firm oversees
about C$1.7 billion ($1.7 billion).  Base-metals companies  retreated after the data release from
China, the world’s largest user of the commodities.  Teck
Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s biggest company in the industry, lost
2.9 percent to C$35.48. Copper, zinc and gold producer  HudBay
Minerals Inc. (HBM)  decreased 5.6 percent to C$11.49.  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ) , which mines coal in Mongolia for
Chinese  steel mills , fell 9.9 percent to C$6.19 after S&P said
it will cut the stock from the S&P/TSX.  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer by market value, fell 2.1 percent to
C$42.75. China was the fourth-biggest importer of Canadian
fertilizer in 2011, according to  Statistics Canada .  Viterra advanced 6.4 percent to C$14.45 after surging 24
percent March 9, when it said it had “received expressions of
interest from third parties.”  The company may sell for C$14.50 a share to C$17.50 a
share, Kenneth B. Zaslow, an analyst at BMO, wrote in a note to
clients today. Glencore International Plc, the world’s largest
publicly traded commodities supplier, is among the companies
that expressed an interest in a potential offer for Regina,
Saskatchewan-based Viterra, according to a person familiar with
the situation who declined to be identified because the details
haven’t been made public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  