-- Canada Fourth Quarter International Investment Position (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-03-12T12:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/canada-fourth-quarter-international-investment-position-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s international investment position report for the
fourth quarter released by  Statistics Canada .  Canada’s net foreign debt was up $34.7 billion to $213.1 billion
at the end of the fourth quarter, resulting largely from the
impact of the appreciation of the Canadian dollar against most
major foreign currencies and from continued foreign investment
into the economy.  During the quarter, the Canadian dollar gained 3.1% against the
US dollar, 3.4% against the British pound, 2.9% against the
Japanese yen and 6.4% against the euro.  Canada’s international assets declined $10.5 billion to $1,598.7
billion. As these assets are denominated in foreign currencies,
the appreciation of the Canadian dollar resulted in a $42.1
billion downward revaluation. This more than offset outward
Canadian transactions in the quarter.  Canada’s international investment position  Note to readers
The historical revision to the international investment position
(IIP) is scheduled to be released in October 2012. At that
point, market valuation will be used as the main measure of the
IIP accounts as opposed to the book value presentation currently
in use as the main measure. For more information, please see
Valuation of assets and liabilities.  Definition  The international investment position presents the value and
composition of  Canada ’s assets and liabilities to the rest of
the world. Canada’s net international investment position is the
difference between these foreign assets and liabilities. The
excess of international liabilities over assets can be referred
to as Canada’s net foreign debt; the excess of international
assets over liabilities can be referred to as Canada’s net
foreign assets. The valuation of the assets and liabilities in
the international investment position are measured at book
value, unless otherwise stated. Book value represents the value
of assets and liabilities recorded in the books of the
enterprise in which the investment is made.  Currency valuation  The value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currency are converted to Canadian dollars at the end of each
period for which a balance sheet is calculated. Most of Canada’s
foreign assets are denominated in foreign currencies, while less
than half of Canada’s international liabilities are in foreign
currencies. When the Canadian dollar is appreciating in value,
the restatement of the value of these assets and liabilities in
Canadian dollars lowers the recorded value. The opposite is true
when the Canadian dollar is depreciating.  Canada’s international liabilities were up $24.3 billion to
$1,811.9 billion. Ongoing investment by non-residents, amounting
to $51.2 billion in the fourth quarter, accounted for the
increase in international liabilities. Most of this investment
was in the form of purchases of Canadian securities. However,
this increase in international liabilities was moderated by the
appreciation of the Canadian currency, which resulted in a $21.4
billion downward revaluation of that portion of Canadian debt
denominated in foreign currencies.  Net foreign debt with the  United States  up again
Canada’s net debt position with the United States increased
$29.2 billion to $354.6 billion in the fourth quarter. This net
debt position has been on an upward trend since the end of 2008.
Canada had a net asset position of $141.5 billion with all other
countries in the fourth quarter, down $5.6 billion from the
previous quarter.  Net direct investment asset position edges down
The value of Canadian direct investment abroad was down $7.8
billion. Although additional investment added $13.1 billion to
the direct investment position, the appreciation of the dollar
had a downward impact of $20.3 billion on the overall position.
On the liability side, the value of foreign direct investment in
Canada increased by $1.2 billion. As a result, the net direct
investment asset position edged down to $75.3 billion.  Net portfolio investment liability expands further
Holdings of Canadian securities by non-residents increased $12.4
billion to $818.5 billion at the end of 2011. This reflected
sustained investment flows, moderated by the downward impact of
the appreciation of the Canadian dollar on foreign currency-
denominated instruments. On the other hand, the stocks of
foreign securities held by Canadian investors edged down to
$409.5 billion. As a result, Canada’s net liability position on
securities expanded further in the quarter.  These developments reflect changes in the underlying investment
trends since 2007, combined with the general appreciation of the
Canadian dollar over the same period. Since the beginning of
2007, Canadian investors’ holdings of foreign bonds have
decreased 11.8%, while holdings of foreign money market
instruments have declined 76.3%.  Since the financial crisis, Canadian holdings of foreign
securities have decreased as a percentage of total international
assets. However, on the liability side, foreign investment in
Canadian securities has increased over the last four years as a
percentage of total international liability.  Share of investment in securities  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  