-- Canada Dollar Declines as Slower Chinese Growth Weighs on Commodity Demand
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-03-12T21:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/canada-dollar-declines-as-china-s-economic-growth-concern-reduces-demand.html
Canada’s dollar weakened versus its
U.S. counterpart on concern the global recovery is slowing after
 China  reported its biggest trade deficit in more than two
decades, sapping demand for higher-risk assets.  The currency fell as commodities such as crude oil and
copper weakened, boosting the yen and the  greenback  on haven
appeal.  Government bonds  advanced, driving the benchmark 10-year
yield below 2 percent. The U.S. Federal Open Market Committee
meets tomorrow to set monetary policy and release the results of
its annual bank stress test.  “The Canadian dollar has been consistently weakening in
sympathy with the commodity currencies after a disappointment in
the Chinese data,” said  Stewart Hall , senior currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital unit in
Toronto. “Markets have slipped into a Fed induced slumber --you
get the sense no one wants to step in front of the Fed bus.”  Canada ’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, dropped 0.2 percent to 99.24
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It rose as high as
98.73 last week, the most since March 1. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0077.  Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, fell as much 1.9
percent, its largest decline in nearly week, after the Chinese
economic data. China is the world’s second-largest user of oil.
U.S. Copper lost 0.5 percent to $3.8335 per pound after earlier
depreciating 0.9 percent.  ‘Play Any Softness’  The loonie fell against the majority of its 16 most-traded
peers tracked by Bloomberg as it rose versus its commodity-
linked peers of  Australia  and  New Zealand . Speculation that the
economy in the U.S., Canada’s largest trading partner, may be
accelerating is benefiting the currency of the world’s 10th-
largest economy.  “This is an environment that favors the Canadian dollar,”
said  Stephen Gallo , head of market analysis in  London  at
Schneider Foreign Exchange. “This is where you want to be
looking to play any softness or uncertainty regarding China. I
definitely think you want to be looking to short Aussie-CAD for
the time being,” he said, referring to a bet that the
Australian dollar will weaken versus the Canadian dollar.  The Canadian currency has appreciated 2.9 percent this year
against its U.S. counterpart on increased demand for higher-
yielding assets on speculation officials will succeed in
containing the European sovereign-debt crisis. Canada’s dollar
tends to rise and fall along with global equity markets as a
proxy for economic growth.  Bonds Rise  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index lost 0.2 percent. The world equity
index has a  correlation  coefficient of 0.83 with the Canadian
currency. A reading of one would indicate the two securities
move in lockstep.  The benchmark  10-year note  rose, pushing the yield down one
basis point, 0.01 percentage point, to 2 percent. The price of
the 3.25 percent security, due in June 2021, rose 8 cents to
C$110.51.  The  yield curve , the difference between two- and 10-year
notes narrowed to 81 basis points, the least in over three
years, compared with a four-year average of 152 basis points. A
narrowing yield curve suggests investors anticipate slow
economic growth and inflation.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Jan. 25 after the
FOMC’s last gathering that policy makers were considering
additional asset purchases to boost growth. The central bank
also extended a pledge to keep the benchmark  interest rate  at
almost zero through at least late 2014. The Fed bought $2.3
trillion of securities under the two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing from December 2008 to June 2011.  Trade at Parity  Buy the Canadian dollar on rallies to the 99.40 cents area,
said  Steve Butler , managing director in Toronto at  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia Capital unit, citing falling equities as a
factor in the loonie weakening against the greenback. The
Canadian dollar will trade at parity with its U.S. counterpart
by the end of the second quarter, according to the median of 40
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg News.  The Canadian currency is the best performer among 10
developed-nation counterparts over the past week, adding 1
percent, according to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Currency
Indexes. The U.S. dollar lost 0.1 percent and the euro gained
0.3 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  