-- Macklem Says Lack of China FX Flexibility Thwarting U.S. Stimulus Measures
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-03-12T18:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/canada-s-macklem-says-china-foreign-exchange-policy-thwarts-u-s-stimulus.html
Efforts by U.S. policy makers to
stimulate the economy are being thwarted by a lack of
flexibility in the Chinese  exchange rate , Bank of  Canada  Senior
Deputy Governor Tiff Macklem said.  The U.S. “needed considerable monetary stimulus to re-
start their economy,” Macklem said in response to audience
questions following  a speech  in Sao Paulo, pointing to “a very
limited exchange-rate flexibility with China that is thwarting
the effectiveness of that stimulus. On the other side, it is
fueling inflation in China.”  Macklem was speaking in Brazil, where Finance Minister
 Guido Mantega  has said that his country is being hurt by a
global “currency war.” Brazil today extended a 6 percent tax
on foreign loans and bonds issued abroad by local companies to
include lending with a duration as long as five years, the third
measure taken this month to weaken the real.  Brazil ’s actions have “brought considerable attention” to
the “difficulties we are seeing globally in currency
adjustment,” Macklem said. “The reality is that the
international monetary system is not working the way it should
be working.”  Canada is facing many of the same global “headwinds” as
Brazil, Macklem said, including weakness in  exports  linked to a
strong currency.  Countries such as Brazil and Canada are “dealing with the
consequences” of the lack of Chinese flexibility, Macklem said,
citing “insufficient global demand” and “persistent upward
pressure on their currencies.”  More Adjustment Needed  “What needs to happen is we need to see more adjustment
between the currencies of the two biggest countries,” Macklem
said.  China  has allowed the yuan to fall 0.5 percent this year
after a 4.7 percent advance in 2011 as its economic growth
slowed in the first two months of the year. The currency is
allowed to move 0.5 percent either side of the daily fixing.  “We need to work together to help other countries take the
difficult decisions that they need to promote adjustment, to
reduce global vulnerabilities and to help sustain the
recovery,” Macklem said, referring to the Group of 20
countries, of which Canada and Brazil are both members.  Referring to Canada’s economy, Macklem said household
spending needs to slow after an increase that was spurred by
rising debt levels.  “We have increasingly stretched households that is
increasing the vulnerability of the household sector, so
household spending needs to moderate,” Macklem said.  In his speech, Macklem said that while markets have proven
to be the best way to generate prosperity, they need to be
guided by strong policy frameworks. Inflation control and well-
regulated financial systems can help encourage growth, he said,
adding that low inflation does not guarantee financial
stability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  