-- CBOE Compliance Executive Patrick Fay Resigns Amid SEC Probe
-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-03-12T16:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/cboe-compliance-executive-patrick-fay-resigns-amid-sec-probe-2-.html
CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , the options
exchange being investigated by the Securities and Exchange
Commission, said senior compliance executive Patrick Fay has
resigned, spokeswoman Gail Osten said in an e-mailed statement.  Fay had been placed on leave after the SEC began
investigating the options-market operator’s oversight of
traders, the Wall Street Journal reported last week, citing
people familiar with the matter. He will “pursue other
interests,” Osten said today.  CBOE Holdings said in its annual report filed Feb. 28 that
the SEC began investigating whether the company was complying
with its obligations as a self-regulatory organization.  “The SEC is looking at all exchanges very carefully,”
CBOE Chief Executive Officer  William Brodsky  said today in an
interview in  Bonita Springs ,  Florida . He declined to comment on
Fay’s resignation and the details of the investigation. “We
have a very good relationship with the SEC and we work with
them,” he said.  Fay, a senior vice president for member and regulatory
services since 2006, was among 10 “executive officers” listed
on CBOE’s website. He had rejoined the company in 2004 after 19
months at NQLX LLC. Before that, he spent 18 years with CBOE,
according to the website.  CBOE was founded in 1973 as the first U.S. market for
equity derivatives. As self-regulatory organizations, American
exchanges are required to write rules for their markets, monitor
trading and ensure that they and their customers aren’t breaking
securities laws.  SEC Investigation  “The SEC is investigating CBOE’s compliance with its
obligations as a self-regulatory organization under the federal
securities laws,” CBOE said in the Feb. 28 filing. “The
company is cooperating with the investigation, which is ongoing,
and is conducting its own review of its compliance.”  CBOE’s statement could refer to anything from technology
glitches to monitoring trading and overseeing its member firms,
James Angel, a finance professor at  Georgetown University ’s
business school in  Washington , said in a phone interview two
weeks ago. It could also relate to “dodgy” activity by a floor
trader or how well the exchange monitors trading on its
electronic platform, he said.  “It could mean almost anything,” Angel said. “Something
at the CBOE has caught the SEC’s attention.”  The SEC’s Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
conducts “routine and special inspections” of self-regulatory
organizations, the Government Accountability Office said in a
November 2007 report. Most are examined every one to four years
and larger ones more frequently, the report said. OCIE inspects
the adequacy of the organizations’ surveillance, investigative
and disciplinary programs and how well they comply with their
own policies, GAO said.  If OCIE finds that an SRO hasn’t complied with its rules or
federal securities laws, it may refer the matter to the SEC’s
enforcement division, the GAO report said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joanna Ossinger at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net  