-- Chesapeake CEO Seeks Cash Infusion From Asian Gas Markets
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-03-12T20:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/chesapeake-ceo-courts-asians-for-100-billion-resource-energy.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  Chief
Executive Officer Aubrey McClendon is cultivating investors from
Seoul to  New Delhi  eager to own natural gas that’s 85 percent
cheaper than Middle East supplies because of a glut in the U.S.  As head of the second-largest U.S. natural gas supplier,
McClendon met executives of Asian power utilities and state-run
energy companies on a 14-day trip last month. He said they’re
unfazed by Chesapeake’s $10.3 billion  debt load , more than twice
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s burden, and gas trading near a 10-year low
of $2.23 per million British thermal units -- two factors that
have helped send its stock down 26 percent in the past year.  “We are presently owned by a group of investors who don’t
think gas prices will ever go above $4,” McClendon, 52, said in
an interview in  Oklahoma City (13409MF) , where Chesapeake is based. “I
want to be owned by investors who live in a part of the world
that believes gas prices will never go below $10.”  Chesapeake’s up-front costs to amass leases in gas-rich
rock formations from Appalachia to the  Rocky Mountains  will pay
off as overseas buyers flock to the U.S. market, the world’s
biggest, for cheap and plentiful supplies of the fuel, he said.  McClendon, who co-founded Chesapeake in 1989, is counting
on energy companies building the U.S.’s first export capacity at
ports in the lower 48 states, allowing his investors to ship
U.S. gas to more expensive Asian markets. His assumption was
seconded by Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson, who told analysts four days
ago he had “no doubt”  North America  will develop an export
market, reversing Exxon’s previous skepticism.  $17 Billion Sale  Not all of Chesapeake’s partners are waiting on the future
development of a North American gas-export market to profit.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) ,  China ’s largest offshore energy producer, paid
$1.08 billion in November 2010 for a one-third stake in
Chesapeake’s holdings in an oil-rich section of the Eagle Ford
shale in south Texas. The Hong Kong-listed company pledged
another $1.08 billion to cover 75 percent of Chesapeake’s future
drilling costs in the region.  With each acre of Chesapeake’s Eagle Ford property
estimated by company geologists to hold 5,000 barrels of crude,
Cnooc acquired about 1 billion barrels for $2.16 apiece.
Expenses for things such as pipes and pumping stations are
adding another $15 a barrel of development costs in the area,
leaving Cnooc ample room to profit when Texas crude is selling
for more than $100 a barrel, McClendon said. By the end of 2013,
he plans to sell more than $17 billion in assets including oil
fields to cover a cash-flow gap aggravated by plunging gas
prices. McClendon, who said he held 52 meetings in  Asia , didn’t
comment on pledges of new investment in the interview.  Divesting Permian Basin  This year, divesting holdings in the Permian Basin of west
 Texas  and New Mexico will generate at least $5 billion, he said
during the interview.  The Permian resource accounts for 5 percent of the
company’s value, he said. By McClendon’s math, that means
Chesapeake as a whole is worth $100 billion, more than six times
its current $16 billion market value. Chesapeake controls 15
million net acres of oil and gas formations, more than three
times the area of  New Jersey .  “We have the assets they want, and we need their money,”
he said in the March 6 interview, referring to Asian investors.
“They don’t say, ‘You’ve got $2 billion too much debt.’ They
say ‘You’ve got what the world wants, and someday gas prices are
going to be unlocked from the jail cell where they are today,
and you’re going to be the biggest winner.’”  Inflated Supplies  U.S. gas has tumbled 24 percent this year, following a 32
percent plunge in 2011. Soaring production from shale fields in
Texas, Louisiana and  Pennsylvania  smashed open by high-pressure
jets of water and sand inflated supplies at a time of mild
winter weather that suppressed demand for the furnace fuel.  Gas futures traded in  New York  touched $2.23 per million
British thermal units on Jan. 23, the lowest since February
2002. Meanwhile, utilities in  Japan  are  paying more than $18  for
gas from Indonesia and Yemen.  Chesapeake’s shares declined 1.4 percent to close at $24.21
in New York as benchmark U.S. gas futures fell within 4 cents of
the 10-year low. The stock lost 26 percent in the past 12 months
compared with a 4.2 percent drop in the  Standard & Poor’s Oil &
Gas Exploration & Production index . Investors grew cautious as
its margins shrank, even as net debt improved.  Return on assets last year dropped to 4 percent from 5
percent, compared with an average increase to 4.8 percent from 4
percent for the 16-member benchmark index, as Chesapeake was
stung by the swelling glut of North American methane. The
company is responding by cutting gas-drilling expenditures to
the lowest since 2005.  Cash Flow, Bonds  Facing a  cash shortfall  that Raymond James & Associates
Inc. said could reach $3.5 billion this year, McClendon is
shifting rigs from fields that contain mostly gas to formations
soaked with crude oil and so-called gas liquids such as propane,
which command higher prices.  Chesapeake’s 6.775 percent bond due in 2019 has non-
investment grade ratings.  Standard & Poor’s  assigned a BB+, its
top junk grade, and Moody’s Investors Service has it at Ba3,
third to the top among non-investment ratings.  Chesapeake last sought an infusion of cash from Asia and
the  Middle East  in 2010, when sovereign wealth funds including
 Singapore ’s  Temasek Holdings (TMSK)  Pte bought $1.1 billion in
convertible preferred stock. McClendon said he was strapped for
cash at the time as the company acquired leases in Texas’s Eagle
Ford shale and the Marcellus formation in Appalachia.  Production Strategy  McClendon’s short-term goal is to boost oil and liquids
production to as much as 214,000 barrels a day next year and
250,000 barrels a day in 2015. At the same time, Chesapeake is
spending hundreds of millions of dollars on initiatives to lift
natural-gas demand by making the fuel competitive with diesel
and gasoline in the U.S. transportation sector.  McClendon met energy executives, government ministers and
fund managers during his Feb. 4-18 tour through cities that
included  Seoul ,  Tokyo , Beijing,  Hong Kong , New Delhi and  Abu
Dhabi . The meetings included existing investors in Chesapeake
and potential future stakeholders, McClendon said.  “They all want to be here,” McClendon said over a dinner
of beefsteak, french fries and champagne on crushed ice in one
of the four restaurants that dot Chesapeake’s 120-acre campus on
the north side of Oklahoma City. “Nobody over there believes
for a second that five years from now we’ll have sub-$3 gas.”  Chesapeake ended 2011 with $10.3 billion in  net debt , down
18 percent from a year earlier and the lowest year-end figure
since 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. During the
same five-year period, cash on hand increased more than 130-fold
to $351 million and proved reserves more than doubled to the
equivalent of 3.12 billion barrels of crude.  Debt Comparison  Exxon Mobil, the only company that pumps more gas from U.S.
wells than Chesapeake, had $4.37 billion of net debt at the end
of last year. The Irving, Texas-based company’s market value is
25 times larger than Chesapeake’s. On a per-reserves basis,
Exxon’s net debt is equivalent to 2.9 cents for every thousand
cubic feet of gas. Chesapeake’s debt load is 55 cents per
thousand cubic feet.  McClendon said the company’s debt-per-reserves would be
lower if not for U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules
that prohibit energy companies from counting as proved reserves
anything that won’t be pumped from the ground in the next five
years. Even if Chesapeake made no more acquisitions or
discoveries, the company’s current holdings are expansive enough
to sustain 25 to 30 years of drilling, he said.  “Why would you care about $10 billion in debt for a
company that has $100 billion in assets?” McClendon said.
“There’s a scary amount of gas out there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 