-- Chile Peso Snaps Winning Streak as Copper Dims Trade Outlook
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-03-12T17:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/chile-peso-snaps-winning-streak-as-copper-dims-trade-outlook.html
Chile ’s peso fell for the first
time in four days as signs of a Chinese economic slowdown pushed
down copper prices, dimming trade prospects for the biggest
producer of the metal.  The peso depreciated 0.5 percent to 485.45 per  U.S. dollar 
at the close in Santiago after gaining 1.7 percent in the
previous three days.  Copper, which accounts for more than half of Chile’s
exports, fell as much as 1.1 percent in  New York  after  China 
reported its largest trade deficit since at least 1989. Copper
stockpiles in  Shanghai  are at the highest level since at least
2003 as inventories tracked by the London Metal Exchange shrink.  “It’s all the external scenario,” said Matias Madrid, an
economist at Banco Penta in Santiago, referring to the peso’s
decline. “The Chinese  trade balance  came out very negative and
that’s hitting copper.”  The peso strengthened the most in a month on March 8 when a
report showed consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in February,
double the median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Chilean Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said today the
government is concerned by rising estimates for consumer prices.
February’s pick-up in inflation reflected some one-time factors,
Larrain said at an event in Santiago today.  Three-month breakeven inflation, the gap between nominal
and inflation-linked yields in the swaps market, fell 19 basis
points, or 0.19 percentage point, to 4.37 percent, while two-
year breakevens dropped eight basis points to 3.43 percent.  The yield on a basket of central bank 10-year inflation-
adjusted bonds rose four basis points to 2.48 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net 
NI CLECO
NI CMD
NI CMDX
NI COPPER
NI DRV
NI EMD
NI FRX
NI MET
NI NONFERR
NI ORIGINAL
NI CLM 