-- China Vanke 2011 Profit Rises 32% on Mass-Market Home Sales
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-13T08:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/china-vanke-2011-profit-advances-32-on-rising-sales-of-mass-market-homes.html
China Vanke Co (0000002) ., the nation’s
biggest developer by sales, said full-year profit rose 32
percent as it sold more small and medium-sized homes that are
less affected by government curbs.  Net income  to Dec. 31 climbed to 9.62 billion yuan ($1.5
billion), or 0.88 yuan a share, from 7.3 billion yuan, or 0.66
yuan, in 2010 based on international accounting standards, the
company said at a press conference in Hong Kong yesterday. Vanke
would report net income of 9.53 billion yuan, according to the
average of 20 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg News.  “Vanke is targeting the mass market, which helped sales,”
said Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based property analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG. “Starting from the second half of last year
 China ’s high-end property market slumped greatly. Also, in a bad
market like this, brand name stands out. Buyers tended to buy
homes with good and big brand names like Vanke.”  Government measures including raising mortgage and down-
payment requirements and imposing home purchase restrictions in
about 40 cities have curbed speculation, while intending to
preserve real demand from homeowners. About 88 percent of
Vanke’s projects were homes of less than 144 square meters
(1,550 square feet), according to a statement in January.  “ China Vanke ’s business strategies are relatively
stable,” President Yu Liang, said in a statement yesterday.
“The company has been insisting on building small and furbished
units; leveraging a quick turnover operation model; adopting a
prudent investment strategy and avoiding having an excessive
landbank.”  The company didn’t cut prices and sold homes at
“reasonable prices,” Yu said at the briefing in  Hong Kong .  Contracted Sales  Vanke shares rose 2 percent to 8.52 yuan at the 3 p.m.
close in Shenzhen, taking gains this year to 14 percent. A gauge
tracking property shares on the benchmark Shanghai Composite
Index advanced 0.6 percent today.  Full-year contracted sales rose 12 percent to 121.5 billion
yuan, the second year they were above 100 billion yuan,
Executive Vice-President Xiao Li said. Contracted sales in the
first two months this year fell 27 percent from last year to
19.05 billion yuan, Vanke said in a statement on March 6.  Xiao said she doesn’t see “big changes” in China’s home
policies as the government still wants to help first-time
homebuyers.  Chinese President  Wen Jiabao  has maintained that he won’t
waver on real estate controls and efforts to bring prices down
to a reasonable level. Regulation of the real estate market is
at a “crucial stage,” he said in his work report to the
National People’s Congress on March 5.  It’s hard to predict the performance of  home prices  this
year, Xiao said. Home prices in February posted the biggest
decline in 19 months, according to SouFun Holdings Ltd., the
nation’s biggest real estate website owner.  Land Acquisitions  Vanke has more than 30 million square meters of land
reserves and will continue to look for land acquisition
opportunities, Xiao said.  The company had 32 billion yuan of cash as of the end of
December, Xiao said. The developer is the first among China’s
biggest builders to report full-year earnings.  Vanke realized booked area of 5.6 million square meters in
2011, up 24 percent, and revenue booked increased 42 percent to
67.7 billion. Chinese developers begin selling homes while they
are under construction and book profits upon completion.  It sold, though not yet booked, 10.85 million square meters,
with a contract amount of 122.2 billion yuan at the end of 2011.  “Vanke stood out among Chinese developers because of its
quick sales strategy amid the government curbs,” said Xiao Jian,
a Beijing-based analyst at Southwest Securities Co., before the
earnings were announced. “It was also cautious with
acquisitions and expansion. That helped a lot.”  China’s home sales declined 25 percent in the first two
months of the year, according to the statistics bureau, as the
government pledged to maintain its housing curbs.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  