-- China Yuan Reference Rate Falls Most Since August 2010 After Trade Deficit
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-03-12T09:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/china-s-yuan-reference-rate-declines-most-since-august-2010-after-deficit.html
China ’s central bank weakened its
daily fixing for the yuan by the most since August 2010 after
the government reported the biggest trade  deficit  in at least 22
years.  The currency fell the most in seven weeks as People’s Bank
of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said in Beijing the exchange
rate is linked to the balance of payments. The nation’s trade
shortfall was $31.5 billion in February, four times the previous
largest deficit, according to data released on March 10 by the
 customs bureau . The central bank will use exchange rates and
 interest rates  to manage the economy as  Europe ’s debt crisis
damps global demand, it said in a statement today.  China has allowed the yuan to fall 0.5 percent this year
after a 4.7 percent advance in 2011. The nation’s growth slowed
in the first two months of the year, with both exports and
domestic demand moderating faster than analysts had forecast,
building the case for Premier  Wen Jiabao  to accelerate stimulus
measures. Wen, 69, who will close the annual National People’s
Congress this week, may slow the pace of yuan gains as policy
makers seek to aid exporters.  “The first three to four months, you will have a repeat of
the 2008 situation where the exchange rate is flat,” said Cliff Tan, East Asia head of global currency research at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in Hong Kong. “Once the European problem
moves off the front burner, risk-taking will come back and we
will see a new pattern of fixing to allow a catch-up with 5
percent annual gains.”  The  reference rate  was set 0.33 percent lower at 6.3282 per
dollar. The currency can move 0.5 percent either side of the
fixing. The yuan declined 0.25 percent to 6.3265 in  Shanghai ,
the biggest loss since Jan. 20, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System.  ‘Balanced Level’  In  Hong Kong ’s offshore market, the yuan weakened 0.2
percent to 6.3173. Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards fell
0.3 percent to 6.3165, a 0.2 percent premium to the onshore spot
rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The government will keep the exchange rate “basically
stable at an appropriate and balanced level,” Wen said in the
opening speech to the NPC on March 5. He announced an economic-
growth target of 7.5 percent for 2012, the first time below 8
percent since 2004.  Yi Gang, head of China’s State Administration of Foreign
Exchange, said at a central bank press briefing in Beijing
today that conditions are ripening for the yuan’s exchange rate
to reach equilibrium. Governor Zhou said the market is playing a
bigger role in the exchange rate and that more time is needed to
see a trend in China’s trade deficit.  Increasing Volatility  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected
currency swings used to price options, climbed to 2.2 percent,
the most in two months. The daily trading band may be widened
while the currency is moving “very close” to a “balanced
level,” Xinhua News Agency reported last week, citing PBOC’s
Zhou.  “When you have conditions like this where markets have
elevated volatility and the external outlook isn’t that clear,
the PBOC tends to fix the yuan quite randomly,” Andy Ji, a
foreign-exchange strategist in  Singapore  at  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia. (CBA)  “They will try to move the yuan lower. We expected
exports to slow.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  