-- China Repo Rate Falls Most in a Week After Trade-Deficit Report
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-03-12T02:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/china-repo-rate-falls-most-in-a-week-after-trade-deficit-report.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell by the most in a week as the nation’s biggest trade deficit
in at least 22 years spurred speculation policy makers will
loosen monetary policy.  The shortfall was $31.5 billion, the customs bureau said on
its website on March 10. Factory output in the first two months
of the year rose the least since 2009, retail sales increased
less than economists predicted, while inflation and lending
growth slowed, data showed last week.  “The weak  trade surplus  means banks’ February foreign-
exchange purchase number is likely to swing back to deficit,”
 Ju Wang , a Barclays Capital strategist in Singapore, wrote in a
report today. “This adds to the need for the People’s Bank of
China to cut  reserve requirements  further as it aims to achieve
a broad money-supply goal of 14 percent.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate  fell 19 basis points, the
most since March 1, to 2.80 percent at 9:03 a.m. in  Shanghai ,
according to a weighted average compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  Yuan positions  at Chinese financial institutions
accumulated from foreign-exchange purchases rose 140.9 billion
($22 billion) yuan in January from the previous month, snapping
three months of decline, according to People’s Bank of China
data.  The monetary authority gauged demand for a three-month bill
sale this week, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions. It also assessed interest for
28- and 91-  repurchase agreements , the trader said.  The one-year swap contract decreased one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 3.18 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The contract represents the fixed cost
needed to receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  