-- Citigroup Gains in Refinancing to Join Ally as BofA Trails
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-03-12T20:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/citigroup-gains-in-harp-refinancing-to-join-ally-as-bank-of-america-trails.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  “emerged
surprisingly” last month as a greater user of an expanded
federal mortgage refinancing program as  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) 
lagged behind, according to Morgan Stanley analysts.  The pace of prepayments on a group of the most-underwater
mortgages serviced by Citigroup would erase 41.6 percent of the
debt within a year, more than double the rate in November, the
month before changes were made to the federal Home Affordable
Refinance Program to include such loans, the Morgan Stanley
analysts said in a March 9 report. That compares with a 1.3
percentage point gain to 18 percent for Bank of America.  “Amongst large lenders that had not exhibited any large
participation in HARP previously, Citi has emerged surprisingly
with a greater embrace of the program,” the Morgan Stanley
analysts including Vipul Jain and Janaki Rao in New York said in
a March 9 report. “BofA so far is not displaying a significant
pick-up in prepay speeds,” they wrote.  Mortgage-bond holders and analysts are monitoring the
expanded program for  Freddie Mac  and Fannie Mae loans, being
called HARP 2.0, because prepayments can erode returns. The
damage may be exacerbated by the shrinking pool of loans with
high rates that need underwriting flexibility to refinance,
which increases the share of such debt erased when individual
homeowners get aided, Morgan Stanley said.  ‘Important Implications’  “This idea has very important implications as investors
think about the impact of lending capacity on HARP
prepayments,” the analysts wrote.  Prepayment speeds for the most-underwater loans serviced by
Citigroup topped those at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and JPMorgan Chase &
Co., the leaders under the previous version of HARP. The Morgan
Stanley report included prepayments on loans backed by Freddie
Mac, issued before June 2009 and with loan-to-value ratios
exceeding 125 percent.  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  beat the rest of the five-biggest
servicers in refinancing loans with loan-to-value ratios
exceeding 125 percent, JPMorgan analysts wrote in a report last
week.  “Our approach to HARP is consistent with our efforts to
help existing homeowners obtain the best options possible for
payment relief,”  Gina Proia , a spokeswoman for Detroit-based
Ally, said in an e-mail. “The company is also focused on
refinancing non-HARP eligible borrowers and new purchase
originations, where we are also seeing increased activity.”  Home Sales  Defaults, refinancing and home sales have reduced the
amount of 30-year mortgages potentially eligible for HARP by 5.6
percent since Dec. 1 to $1.31 trillion, according to Morgan
Stanley. Changes to the program, which were urged by President
 Barack Obama , include the elimination of a cap on loan-to-value
ratios, reduced fees and lessened risks for lenders.  “Although the program is relatively new, we are seeing
success helping borrowers to lower their mortgage payments,”
 Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup, said in
an e-mail message.  It has “opened up refi opportunities for borrowers whose
homes had declined in value,” creating “a great deal of
interest” from homeowners, he said.  “Bank of America is fully committed to providing our
customers with the benefits of refinancing through our continued
implementation of HARP 2,”  Terry Francisco , a spokesman for
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, said in an e-
mail. “Investors will begin to see increased activity in
secondary markets for HARP 2 later this spring.”  ‘Aggressively Building Capacity’  The lender has taken more than 20,000 applications for HARP
2.0 loans for consumers with loan-to-value ratios of more than
80 percent since Jan. 17 and is “aggressively building
capacity,” he said.  Prepayments last month among debt targeted by HARP were
“significantly higher than expected” by Nomura Securities
International, analysts led by Ohmsatya Ravi wrote in a March 9
report. Speeds for mortgages with loan-to-value ratios between
105 percent and 125 percent for all the top-five servicers
except Bank of America reached “all-time” highs, they said.  JPMorgan (JPM)  and Ally, the government-rescued lender formerly
known as GMAC, began showing higher prepayment speeds in
January, while Citigroup and Wells Fargo only began to increase
last month, Nomura said in the report.  Key to Program  Bond analysts at firms including Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan
and  Barclays Capital  have said Bank of America’s use of the so-
called HARP 2.0 may be key to the impact of the program because
the lender oversees about a quarter of mortgages targeted.  Bank of America last month told some customers to wait 90
days before starting an application, according to two people
with knowledge of the policy, who requested anonymity because
the measure hadn’t been announced. At a March 8 conference,
Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan said that “we were doing
1,500 apps a day; we have to build the capacity up to 2,000.
We’re at about 1,800, so we’re fine.”  The bank “just had to build the capacity back up,”
Moynihan said. “This is one of the tricks of the mortgage
business as it ebbs and flows.”  The latest data “reinforced” JPMorgan analysts’ view that
prepayment speeds among loans with the highest rates may
increase by an amount that erases 10 percent more of the debt a
year because of HARP 2.0, they said in a March 9 report.  With the “glaring exception” of Bank of America, “major
lenders are ramping up their HARP productions,” JPMorgan
analysts including Matt Jozoff and Brian Ye wrote. “We
recommend investors avoid the HARP-able universe.”  Speeds for the most-underwater borrowers with Ally-serviced
mortgages rose to a constant prepayment rate of 67.2, according
to JPMorgan, which used data on loans issued from 2005 through
2008 within bonds with average coupons of more than 6 percent.
The figure was 47.3 for Citigroup, 31.3 percent for JPMorgan and
26.9 for Wells Fargo. Bank of America was at 21.4, as the
industry average was 30.1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  