-- Coast Guard Snub by U.S. on Cutter Funds Seen as Mission Threat
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2012-03-12T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/coast-guard-snub-by-u-s-on-cutter-funds-seen-as-mission-threat.html
     March 12 (Bloomberg) --The Obama administration’s failure
to budget $1.6 billion for two of the Coast Guard’s flagship
vessels is drawing criticism from U.S. lawmakers who say the
service’s missions will be threatened.  The Department of  Homeland Security ’s proposal for the
fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 requests $683 million to fund only
the sixth of eight planned National Security Cutters made by
 Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc (HII) . The agency, which oversees
the Coast Guard, didn’t seek funding for the remaining two
cutters for fiscal years 2014 to 2017.  The 418-foot-long cutters are needed to replace an aging
fleet of vessels, many of which are more than 40 years old and
expensive to maintain, according to the service. The older ships
also aren’t equipped for some of the Coast Guard’s missions,
which expanded after the service moved in 2003 from the
Department of Transportation to Homeland Security, created
following the Sept. 11 attacks.  “I’m very concerned that the department’s budget is
spreading our maritime resources too thin,” Representative Chip Cravaack, a Minnesota Republican, said in an interview after a
March 7 hearing of the  House Transportation  and Infrastructure’s
Coast Guard subcommittee. “This puts our nation at risk.”  Huntington Contracts  The Coast Guard, more than two centuries old, had 38,000
active-duty men and women, 8,000 reservists and 35,000 auxiliary
personnel in 2010, according to its website. The service defines
a cutter as any ship more than 65 feet long and with space for
the crew to live on board.  Shipbuilder Huntington, spun off from  Northrop Grumman
Corp. (NOC)  a year ago, has received  contracts  to build the first four
new cutters and was awarded the fifth in September, according to
the Coast Guard website. Three of the six cutters are in
service, the last of which was commissioned in September.  The largest builder of Navy surface warships,  Newport News ,
Virginia-based Huntington depends on the U.S. government for
“substantially all” of its revenue, the company said in its
prospectus.  Huntington had $6.58 billion in estimated revenue in the 12
months ended Sept. 30, 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Its shares rose $1.16, or 3.2 percent, to close at
$37.46 Friday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The  shares  have risen 20 percent so far this year. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has increased 9.0 percent. Nine of
13 analysts monitored by Bloomberg rate Huntington shares a hold
or sell, while four rate them a buy.  Coast Guard Cuts  About 1,000 people work in the National Security Cutter
program, Bill Glenn, a Huntington spokesman, said in an e-mail.
He declined to comment on what might happen to those workers if
the project doesn’t receive future funding.  Whether the two cutters get funding remains in doubt, Coast
Guard Commandant Admiral Robert Papp said in a March 6 interview
after testifying before the House Appropriations subcommittee on
Homeland Security. “Each and every year we will have to do an
assessment of what we can afford,” he said.  President  Barack Obama ’s proposed budget reduces the Coast
Guard’s total funding by 5.7 percent in fiscal 2013, to $9.97
billion from the $10.6 billion enacted in fiscal 2012. The
service’s capital budget would decline 19 percent, according to
budget documents.  “Congress has never supported a plan that so bluntly guts
operational capabilities,” Representative Robert Aderholt, an
Alabama Republican and chairman of the Appropriations
subcommittee on Homeland Security, said at the hearing. “I
believe what is at stake is no less than the future of our Coast
Guard.”  Lawmakers Disagree  The Coast Guard’s budget is able to meet the service’s
needs given the constraints of the  U.S. budget deficit , Homeland
Security Secretary  Janet Napolitano  testified March 8 at a
hearing of the Senate Appropriations subcommittee on Homeland
Security.  Lawmakers from both parties disagreed. “I have strong
reservations about the inadequate funding requests to replace
aging Coast Guard ships and planes,” Senator  Mary Landrieu , a
Louisiana Democrat and chairwoman of the Appropriations
subcommittee on Homeland Security, said at the March 8 hearing.
“I will work with my colleagues to identify resources to
restore those cuts.”  Old Cutters  The new National Security Cutter is the largest and most
technically advanced ship the Coast Guard has ever commissioned,
according to its website. The vessel replaces the 378-foot
Hamilton Class High Endurance Cutters first built in the 1960s.
The new cutter is faster and can operate farther from shore, the
website says.  The Coast Guard’s mission has expanded beyond U.S. shores
to include drug enforcement, terrorism prevention and
environmental protection in the Arctic,  South America ,  Mexico 
and the Caribbean. The service’s goal is to detect and deter
threats to the nation, and the National Security Cutter plays an
important role in those efforts, Papp said in the interview.  While the new cutter performs traditional Coast Guard
duties such as search and rescue, it’s also equipped to detect
and defend against chemical, biological and radiological
attacks.  The service may face additional burdens as the Navy
 reevaluates  its fleet size and patrol commitments, Papp told the
House Appropriations Homeland Security subcommittee March 6. The
Navy’s Perry-class frigates, for example, are leaving service
and those warships are critical to counter-drug missions, he
said.  Budget Request  The Department of Homeland Security’s budget request for
fiscal 2012 was for $795 million in fiscal 2014 and $853 million
the following year for the two cutters. The entire National
Security Cutter program is estimated to cost $4.75 billion
through 2018, according to budget documents.  The U.S. Government Accountability Office, Congress’s
investigative arm, found that figure to be conservative. In a
July report, it put the cost of the eight cutters at about $5.6
billion, or 19 percent higher than budgeted.  The budget request for fiscal 2013 also included $860
million through fiscal 2017 to build a polar icebreaker, a ship
capable of plowing through ice-filled waterways. The U.S.
currently has only one medium-size icebreaker.  Funding for cutters must be provided in multiple budget
years to keep the  production line  going, said  Thad Allen , a
former Coast Guard commandment who is now a vice president at
Booz Allen Hamilton, the McLean, Virginia-based government
contractor. This allows equipment to be purchased and personnel
hired for the next stage of development, he said.  “Since there was no money in this budget the production
line is broken,” Allen said in a March 9 interview. “No one
has said that the cutter program is terminated but without the
money, and particularly because they did fund the ice breaker,
it essentially is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  