-- Copper Falls First Time in Four Sessions as China Growth Slows
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-03-12T18:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/copper-falls-on-indications-of-slowing-economy-in-china.html
Copper fell for the first time in
four sessions as signs of a slowdown in  China , the world’s
biggest metals consumer, fueled concern that demand will fade.  China posted its largest trade deficit since at least 1989
last month as  Europe ’s fiscal turmoil slowed export demand,
figures from the customs bureau showed on March 10. Copper
stockpiles in Shanghai are at the highest level since at least
2003. Money mangers cut their bets on a rally for the metal by
the most in two months in the week ended March 6, U.S.
government data show.  “Most of today’s decline is on concerns about a slowdown
in  China’s economy , and what that may mean for continued
demand,” Dennis Cajigas, a senior market strategist at Zaner
Group in Chicago, said in a telephone interview.  Copper futures for May delivery dropped 0.5 percent to
settle at $3.8375 a pound at 1:20 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
Prices gained 3.2 percent in three sessions before today and are
up 12 percent this year.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) , the world’s biggest
publicly traded producer of the metal, resumed work at its
Grasberg mine in Indonesia today, Virgo Solossa, the head of
organizational affairs at the labor union that represents
workers at the mine, said in a mobile-phone text message.
Supplies from the site were halted Feb. 23 after violence flared
among employees.  Prices may be buoyed as inventories monitored by the London
Metal Exchange, the world’s biggest metals bourse, have tumbled
26 percent this year to the lowest level since July 2009.  On the LME, copper for delivery in three months fell 0.6
percent to $8,445 a metric ton ($3.83 a pound).  Aluminum and nickel also declined in  London , while tin,
lead and zinc gained.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  