-- CPFL to Buy Cogeneration Power Plant at Brazilian Cane Mill
-- B y   T e l m a   M a r o t t o   a n d   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 2012-03-12T18:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/cpfl-to-buy-cogeneration-power-plant-at-brazilian-cane-mill.html
CPFL Energias Renovaveis SA, the
Brazilian joint venture of  CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3)  and ERSA-Energias
Renovaveis SA, will buy a cogeneration plant at a sugar-cane
mill for 111.5 million reais ($61.2 million) as it seeks to
expand its lead as the country’s largest producer of power from
renewable sources.  The company will pay 50.9 million reais to the sugar and
ethanol producer Usina Acucareira Ester SA and assume 60.6
million reais of debt for the plant, CPFL Energias Renovaveis
said today in a statement.  CPFL Energias Renovaveis is “the biggest producer of
renewable energy,” in Brazil, Rafael Dias, an analyst with
Brasilia-based lender Banco do Brasil SA, said today in a
telephone interview. “Its intention is to consolidate this
position.”  The company expects to operate 2,000 megawatts of renewable
energy capacity by 2015. It may sell shares in an initial public
offering on  Brazil ’s stock exchange Bovespa this year to fund
further expansion, Chief Executive Officer Miguel Saad said in a
Feb. 27 telephone interview.  CPFL Energias Ronovaveis’s board authorized the Sao Paulo-
based company to hire investment banks to study an IPO,
according to a regulatory filing today.  The Ester plant, in the city of Cosmopolis in Sao Paulo
state, burns crushed cane stalks known as bagasse to produce
steam and electricity. It sold power for about 177 reais a
megawatt hour in a 2007 government-organized auction, according
to the statement. The purchase must be approved by Brazil’s
electricity regulator Agencia Nacional de Energia Eletrica.  CPFL Energias Renovaveis operates 809.5 megawatts of
renewable energy capacity, including three biomass plants with
total capacity of 175 megawatts. It may develop four more with
195 megawatts of capacity by next year, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Telma Marotto in  Sao Paulo  at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katerina Petroff at 
 kpetroff@bloomberg.net  