-- Credit-Default Swap Time Bomb Failed to Go Off Over Greece: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-03-12T23:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/credit-default-swap-time-bomb-failed-to-go-off-over-greece-view.html
As it wrestled with  Greece ’s debt
crisis for the past two years, the  European Central Bank  took
great pains to avoid triggering credit-default swaps written on
Greek bonds.  But on March 9, Greece forced payouts on swaps contracts
when it required all private bondholders to forgive more than
100 billion euros of debt as part of the biggest sovereign-debt
restructuring in history.  The  International Swaps and Derivatives Association , a
trade group of large financial institutions, euphemistically
calls Greece’s debt deal a “credit event.” The rest of the
world calls it what it is: a default. Still, no panic has
ensued; no contagion has swept over U.S. banks. On Monday, the
world’s bourses held steady. Yields on large, financially
strapped sovereigns, including Spain and  Italy , ticked up only
slightly. The financial markets, it seems, are treating the CDS
trigger as a nonevent.  All of this is a healthy sign that credit-default swaps
remain effective instruments to transfer and hedge risk. Banks
and other financial institutions rely on the instruments to
protect against losses. Others use them as a way to bet on a
government’s or a company’s ability to repay debt.  Hedge funds 
especially like credit-default swaps because they offer a low-
cost means of taking on credit exposure. A CDS can gain value
even if no default occurs. A  fund manager  who thinks a bond
might decline in value -- or that a CDS is underpriced -- can
buy protection in anticipation that spreads will widen. If the
view turns out to be correct, the fund reverses the transaction
at a profit.  $32 Trillion Market  Whether you think any of that is a productive use of
capital, credit-default swaps have become so ingrained in the
financial markets, with $32 trillion in contracts outstanding,
that any hiccup in their use could be disastrous. Concerns arose
earlier this month that CDS were no longer reliable after an
ISDA panel ruled that a Greek  credit event  hadn’t occurred, even
though bondholders were accepting more than 50 percent
reductions in value. But when Greece invoked a legal clause
making the reductions mandatory for all private bondholders, the
ISDA panel immediately moved to trigger the swaps.  One reason for the markets’ insouciance is that the amount
of money expected to change hands is, in the context of
derivatives, minimal. The gross amount of outstanding swaps on
Greek debt is about $70 billion, of which only about $3.2
billion remains after buyers and sellers net out their
positions.  But the bigger reason Greek officials felt they could pull
the trigger is that the financial markets have come a long way
since the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Any
interruption in the daisy chain of CDS payments ($5.2 billion as
a result of Lehman’s bankruptcy) could have set off a panic. At
the time, most credit-default swaps were settled between buyers
and sellers, leaving counterparties down the chain in the dark
over whether they would get paid. In the end, the contracts were
all unwound, but the New York Fed, other regulators and Congress
demanded changes.  Since then, large banks and investment funds, through the
ISDA, have created legally binding procedures, more clearly
defined what constitutes a credit event and written rules for
settling contracts after payouts are triggered. Fifty-eight
credit events have gone off largely without a hitch.  Today’s CDS market is less opaque (though it still needs
improvement on this front). Banks have sped up back-office
mechanics by automating trade confirmations. About 90 percent of
CDS transactions are now collateralized, meaning that protection
sellers don’t need to scrounge for huge sums of cash in case of
a default. And many banks that deal in swaps now publicly report
their positions.  Margin and Clearinghouses  Still, market players and regulators don’t always know who
owes what to whom and whether CDS sellers can make good on their
protection promises. Rules to be written as part of the Dodd-
Frank financial reform law, which some large banks continue to
lobby against, will help. Clearinghouses, for example, which act
as the buyer to every seller and seller to every buyer, can
reduce the risk of failed transactions and give regulators a
window on market positions and prices.  For that reason, regulators should interpret the law
broadly and require as many CDS trades as possible to be
centrally cleared. Overseers should also require margin --
regular payments to a counterparty as the value of a CDS changes
-- in as many situations as possible. Regulators should require
so-called legal entity identifiers that would enable them to
know who is conducting trades. And because none of these rules
will work if only U.S. dealers follow them, regulators should
work closely with international counterparts to establish global
rules of the road.  Things could still go wrong with Greece’s default. An
auction will take place March 19 to set a recovery value on the
Greek bonds underlying the credit-default swaps, which will
determine the amount of any payout. By then, old Greek bonds
will have been replaced with new ones, forcing the ISDA to
figure out what bonds will suffice in the settlement process. A
potential glitch, yes. But in the big picture, it makes the CDS
market seem a lot safer than it was just a few years ago.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 