-- Cuomo’s Pension Plan Rejected by New York Assembly Democrats
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-03-12T22:34:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/cuomo-s-pension-plan-rejected-by-new-york-assembly-democrats.html
New York (STONY1)  Assembly Democrats
rejected Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s proposal to raise the
retirement age and offer a 401(k)-type option to future workers
in their version of the budget.  The Assembly, controlled by Democrats, approved a plan
without the pension changes by 92 to 49 today. The Assembly and
the Republican-controlled Senate, which also passed a budget
proposal today, will now try to negotiate a deal on a spending
plan before March 31. The governor’s pension proposal may still
be agreed upon separately from the budget process, said Assembly
Majority Leader Ron Canestrari.  Cuomo, a Democrat, has said his overhaul of the pension
system will save local governments and the state $113 billion
over the next 30 years as it raises the  retirement age  to 65
from 62 for most new workers. The proposal has drawn the
governor into a battle with the state’s public-worker unions and
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , a fellow Democrat and the sole
trustee of the $140.3 billion pension fund.  “It’s not part of our budget and will be handled
separately,” Canestrari said March 9, when the Assembly
finished its budget plans. “Negotiations are under way, and
they’re pretty intensive.”  Cuomo Cites Layoffs  Lawmakers in both political parties are reluctant to back
the pension changes because they receive campaign cash from the
unions, Cuomo said in an interview on WGDJ in Albany today.  “It’s not about the merits,” Cuomo said. “If you don’t
have pension reform, you’ll be laying off thousands of public
employees.”  The Senate Republicans didn’t include Cuomo’s pension
overhaul in their budget proposal either, though they did
include a statement supporting it. The resolution passed with a
38-to-21 vote today.  “We are committed to pension reform to ease the
skyrocketing costs facing local governments and school
districts,”  Scott Reif , a spokesman for Majority Leader Dean Skelos, a Long Island Republican, wrote in an e-mail yesterday.
“The governor’s plan continues to be the subject of ongoing
negotiations.”  The Assembly’s budget proposal also cuts the  tax rate  to
zero from 4 percent for joint filers earning $25,000 or less,
the proposal said. Senate Republicans said in a statement e-
mailed March 7 that their plan will cut the corporate tax rate
for 200,000 small businesses to 5.5 percent from 6.85 percent, a
$65 million reduction.  MTA Cuts  The Republican proposal also would cut $770 million that
Cuomo’s budget appropriates to the  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority ’s capital program, and would deny a $7 billion
increase to the authority’s debt cap, the resolution says.
Cuomo’s budget proposes raising the largest U.S. transit
agency’s debt limit to $41 billion from $34 billion, the
governor’s budget says.  Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, said
last week the governor must work out an agreement over Cuomo’s
pension overhaul with the unions before the house will vote on
the measure. Cuomo met with union leaders March 6 to discuss
pension changes and other items in the budget, he said during a
March 8 press conference in  Albany , the capital.  “Discussions continue, and we’ve made it clear that a 40
percent cut in retirement benefits for new employees isn’t
acceptable,” said  Carl Korn , a spokesman for  New York State
United Teachers , the state’s largest education-worker union, in
a telephone interview yesterday. “We continue to fight to
protect retirement security.”  Rising Costs  Cuomo has said pension costs will consume 35 percent of
local-government budgets by 2015, up from 3 percent in 2001. New
York’s retirement fund, the third-largest U.S. public pension,
had 101.5 percent of the money needed to pay its obligations in
2010, better than any other state, according to an annual study
by Bloomberg Rankings.  The governor put the pension changes into his $132.5
billion budget proposal for the fiscal year that begins April 1.
He has said that if lawmakers send him a spending plan without
the measure, he’ll force the Legislature to choose between
shutting the government or passing his plan by using a so-called
budget extender. The process is used to keep the government
operating when there’s no agreement on the budget. The governor
has the power to put almost any item in an extender.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany,  New York , at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum in New York at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  