-- Depository Trust to Create Clearinghouse for U.S. Mortgage-Backed Bonds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-03-12T22:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/depository-trust-to-create-clearinghouse-for-u-s-mortgage-backed-bonds.html
The Depository Trust & Clearing
Corp. received approval from the Securities and Exchange
Commission to operate a clearinghouse for trading of U.S.
mortgage bonds, allowing it to replicate the services it offers
for  U.S. Treasuries  and other government-related securities.  The mortgage-backed securities division of DTCC’s Fixed
Income Clearing Corp. will begin acting as a so-called central
counterparty in April, the New York-based company said today in
a statement distributed by  Business Wire . As a CCP, the unit
will guarantee settlement of mortgage-bond trades if one of the
parties to agreements filed with it defaults on its commitment.  The initiative is designed to curb risk and costs in the
market for government-backed U.S. mortgage bonds, where  trading 
totals about $100 trillion a year, the DTCC said. Unlike the
company’s division that handles government-securities
transactions, the mortgage-bond unit didn’t previously back
trades while providing netting and margining services, according
to Murray Pozmanter, managing director and general manager for
clearing services at the DTCC.  “This is part of a long-standing plan to harmonize the
services across the two asset classes,” Pozmanter said today in
a telephone interview.  Cash Markets  The change in the mortgage division represents “the first
CCP to be created in U.S. cash markets in more than a quarter of
a century,” Donald F. Donahue, the DTCC’s president and chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  The last one was a predecessor to the company’s government-
securities unit, Pozmanter said. “Cash” markets mean those not
considered to involve derivatives.  The DTCC is owned by its member firms, including
international broker-dealers, clearing banks, mutual fund
companies and investment banks, according to its website. Its
FICC unit was created by the combination of the Government
Securities Clearing Corp. and MBS Clearing Corp. in 2003.  While adding trade guarantees on mortgage deals won’t
require an increase in FICC’s capital, the unit plans to begin
demanding 15 percent to 30 percent more in margin on  mortgage-
securities transacations , Pozmanter said.  The change will also “will greatly reduce risk” and costs
in the market by allowing the DTCC to offer so-called “pool
netting services and streamlining the settlement of mortgage-
backed securities trades.” Donahue said.  Netting involves consolidating offsetting trades among
market participants, while so-called margining entails
collecting deposits to protect counterparties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  