-- Developers Fall as Home Sales Decline on Government Curbs: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-03-12T07:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/developers-fall-as-home-sales-decline-on-government-curbs-shanghai-mover.html
China ’s property stocks fell after
the country reported weak sales for the first two months of the
year as the government pledged to maintain its housing curbs.  China’s home sales declined 25 percent in January and
February, the national statistics bureau reported March 9. That
compared with 26 percent growth in the same period last year.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) ’s measure of property shares
dropped 1.9 percent at local closing, the biggest decline in two
weeks and the most among the five industry groups on the
benchmark gauge.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (6000048) , China’s second-
largest developer by market value, fell 3.9 percent, the most
since Jan. 30, after reporting a 31 percent decline in sales in
the first two months.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the biggest, lost 2.9
percent, the most in a month.  “The data indicates the further slowdown of property
sales,” wrote SWS Research Co. analysts, led by Kris Li, in a
report today. “Developers will continue to expedite sales by
cutting prices further. The government’s strict stance on
property controls won’t change at this critical moment.”  Sales at Vanke dropped 27 percent in the first two months
of 2012 from a year earlier. Sales last month slumped 40 percent
from January, the company said.  Shanghai’s home sales volume fell 26 percent to 149,400
square meters (1.6 million square feet) last week from a week
earlier, according to property consultant Shanghai UWin Real
Estate Information Services Co.  The Chinese government is firm on property control policies
and may introduce rules to enhance implementation if local
governments don’t abide, Shanghai Securities News reported today,
citing Wang Juelin, deputy director of the Ministry of Housing
and Urban-Rural Development’s policy research.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc,  Malcolm Scott   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  