-- Djibouti to Double Capacity at Doraleh Container Terminal
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-03-12T09:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/djibouti-to-double-capacity-at-doraleh-container-terminal-1-.html
Djibouti will invite bids to expand
the Doraleh Container Terminal, partly owned by  DP World Ltd. (DPW) ,
in the fourth quarter, the Port and Free Zone Authority said.  Capacity will double to 3 million TEU containers, or
twenty-foot equivalent units, annually once the $300 million
expansion project is completed by 2015, Aboubaker Omar Hadi,
chief executive officer of the authority, said in an interview
today in Nairobi, Kenya’s capital.  “We are in talks with  China , the  World Bank  and African
Development Bank on the project,” Hadi said. “Djibouti is a
small market but we are increasing traffic to the hinterland.”  Djibouti’s $982 million economy relies on services related
to its strategic location on the  Red Sea , one of the world’s
busiest shipping lanes. The country, with a population of less
than 1 million, hosts about 2,500 personnel at a U.S. military
base and it’s used by foreign navies patrolling shipping lanes
in the  Gulf of Aden  and the Indian Ocean for Somali pirates.  The main port is used to ferry shipments in and out of
landlocked neighboring Ethiopia and is a hub for trans-shipment
trade off Africa’s eastern coast through to Durban, South
Africa, Hadi said.  Djibouti also plans to build as many as five new ports,
including one in Tajourah that will handle mineral and potash
exports from neighboring Ethiopia, Hadi said. That will cost
$180 million and should be operational by 2015, he said. Another
port is planned in Ghoubet for salt sales abroad, he said.  Djibouti aims to increase refined oil storage at Doraleh by
one-third by mid-2014 and build a facility to handle crude
shipments after signing a memorandum of understanding last month
with  South Sudan  on construction of an oil pipeline, Hadi said.  DP World, the Dubai government-controlled port operator,
and Djibouti formed a joint venture in 2000 to develop the
Doraleh terminal with the signing of a 20-year concession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  