-- Dollar Advances Against Most Peers on Growth; Euro, Krone Erase Declines
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-03-12T21:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/dollar-rises-versus-most-peers-before-retail-sales-fomc-meeting.html
The dollar gained against most of
its major counterparts as stronger U.S. economic data reduced
bets the  Federal Reserve  would add to monetary stimulus,
bolstering demand for the currency.  Higher-yielding currencies including Norway’s krone and the
euro erased earlier losses against the dollar as stocks gained,
amid increased demand for risk. The Australian and New Zealand
dollars declined as China’s central bank weakened its daily
fixing for the yuan after the nation had its biggest trade
 deficit  in at least 22 years. The Dollar Index reached a six-
week high after data last week showed U.S. employers boosted
payrolls in February more than economists forecast.  “In the wake of those strong payrolls Friday, the market
is left in a holding pattern ahead of retail sales and the U.S.
Federal Open Market Committee meeting,” said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  in  New York . “The dollar’s been driven higher by better
news here.”  The greenback declined 0.2 percent to $1.3155 per euro as
of 5:01 p.m. New York time. The currency slid 0.3 percent to
82.23 yen, after touching 82.65 at the end of last week, the
highest since April 27. The krone added 0.4 percent to 5.6767
per dollar after weakening as much as 0.4 percent.  Europe Meetings  The 17-nation euro pared losses against the yen before
European finance ministers meet in Brussels to review a second
aid package for  Greece . The euro declined 0.1 percent to 108.18
yen.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  strengthened 0.3 percent
and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed.  The Brazilian real weakened the most among the major
currencies, slumping as much as 2.3 percent to 1.8328 against
the dollar, the weakest level since Jan. 9.  The nation extended a 6 percent tax on foreign loans and
bonds issued abroad by local companies to include lending with a
duration as long as five years, the third measure taken this
month to weaken the real. President Dilma Rousseff pledged last
week to take all necessary measures to protect  Latin America ’s
biggest economy from what she dubbed a “monetary tsunami”
unleashed by rich nations seeking to devalue their currencies.  The currency needs to lose 20 percent to reach a
“sustainable level”, Jim O’Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs
Asset Management, said in an interview in  London  today.  “ Brazil ’s biggest cyclical challenge is to get rid of the
strength of the real,” O’Neill said.  Dollar Moves  The U.S. currency was stronger against 10 of its 16 major
peers tracked by Bloomberg. The Dollar Index, which
Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses to track the greenback
against the currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, lost
0.2 percent to 79.867 after earlier reaching 80.132, the highest
level since Jan. 25.  The yuan dropped after  China  reported on March 10 a
February trade shortfall of $31.5 billion, the largest trade
deficit since at least 1989. The People’s Bank of China said in
a press statement today that it will use  interest rates  and
exchange rates to manage the economy as  Europe ’s debt crisis
damps global demand.  The  reference rate  for the yuan was set 0.33 percent lower
at 6.3282 per dollar. The currency can move 0.5 percent either
side of the fixing. The yuan declined as much as 0.26 percent to
6.3273 per dollar, before trading at 6.3265, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System. That was its biggest loss
since Jan. 20, based on closing prices.  Australia ’s dollar weakened 0.6 percent to $1.0516 and
touched the least since Jan. 25.  New Zealand ’s dollar declined
0.4 percent to 81.80 U.S. cents.  Economic Data  Retail sales in the U.S. increased 1.1 percent in February,
the most in five months, according to the median estimate of 80
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before Commerce Department
figures due tomorrow.  That would follow data on March 9 that showed nonfarm
payrolls increased by 227,000 in February after rising by a
revised 284,000 the prior month. The  unemployment rate  held at a
three-year low of 8.3 percent.  “The dollar no longer strengthens only in the presence of
 risk aversion  and now stronger U.S. economic data is just as
likely to do the trick,” Chris Walker, a currency strategist at
UBS AG in London, wrote in an e-mailed note. “This change in
character paves the way for further dollar gains over the coming
months as market expectations for further Fed easing recede.”  The Dollar Index fell 0.4 percent on Jan. 25, when Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said that policy makers were
considering additional asset purchases to boost growth. The
 Federal Open Market Committee , which sets U.S. monetary policy,
meets tomorrow.  Trading Levels  Foreign-exchange trading has surged as central banks
including the Fed flooded markets with cash to combat the global
financial crisis. Currency trading may have risen to a record $5
trillion a day in September, surpassing the peak reached before
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in 2008, according to
the Bank for International Settlements.  The euro held a two-week decline against the dollar before
ministers from the region’s 17 nations gather in Brussels today
to sign off on a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) second package
for Greece after bondholders agreed last week to take a loss on
the country’s debt.  The world’s biggest banks are less pessimistic about the
euro as the  European Central Bank  provides unlimited cash to the
region’s financial system,  Germany  may avoid recession and
Greece looks to complete the biggest sovereign-debt
restructuring in history.  Strategists at Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley
raised their estimates for the euro this month, as the median
estimates of more than 50 strategists surveyed by Bloomberg
increased for the second and third quarters. The 17-nation
currency is up about 1.3 percent from an almost 10-year low on
Jan. 16 against nine developed-market peers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  