-- Dong to Spend $1.8 Billion Annually for Offshore Wind Projects
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-03-12T15:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/dong-to-spend-1-8-billion-annually-for-offshore-wind-projects.html
Dong Energy A/S plans to invest
about 10 billion kroner ($1.8 billion) a year on offshore wind
projects to offset a “challenging” environment for gas plants
as it ceases to build new coal power facilities, its chief said.  That’s about what the world’s largest developer of offshore
wind parks spent last year on turbines installed at sea. “We
think that is around that level we will be working at in the
coming years,” Anders Eldrup, chief executive officer of the
Fredericia, Denmark-based company, said by phone.  Dong announced today that Eldrup, who spoke in an interview
on March 9, is stepping down as chief executive. Finance
director Carsten Krogsgaard Thomsen will be acting CEO until a
new chief executive is found, it said, adding that there will be
no change in the company’s strategy.  Dong is focusing on renewable sources for electricity
generation to shift from fossil fuels and cut emissions as the
rising cost of gas depresses profits for burning the fuel.
Profitability of burning gas in the U.K. has fallen 75 percent
to 1.62 pounds ($2.54) a megawatt-hour in the last six months,
according to Bloomberg calculations using broker data.  “It seems to be quite challenging times for the CCGTs,”
or combined-cycle gas turbine plants, Eldrup said. The company
doesn’t have “precise investment plans” for new plants as they
are “not very profitable” now, he said. Dong operates gas-
fired  power plants  in  Norway ,  Denmark  and the Netherlands and
opened its first in the U.K. in south  Wales  last year.  “It’s a combination of the price of gas to the price of
power because it is that conversion that gives a margin,”
Eldrup said.  No Coal-Fired Plants  Dong will not invest in new coal-fired power plants as it
seeks to cut by half its carbon-dioxide emissions from
electricity and heat generation compared with 2006 levels by
2020. The company plans to convert “about half” of its
remaining coal stations to use biomass, Eldrup said.  The company, with about 1.3 gigawatts of operating offshore
wind farms and 1.1 gigawatts under construction, plans to build
3 gigawatts of offshore wind by 2020, Eldrup said. Dong may make
investments of 10 billion kroner a year for the next two to
three years in offshore wind, he said.  Dong will fund new offshore wind plants with company
revenue and from selling shares in existing projects, Eldrup
said. Dong agreed to sell 50 percent of a German park for 4.7
billion kroner to Kirkbi A/S, the parent company of Lego Group,
and Oticon Foundation on Feb. 23, its fifth such sale.  Nations are promoting clean energy to curb emissions and
meet European Union goals. The U.K. is planning to build 18
gigawatts of offshore wind by 2020 from about 2 gigawatts now
while  Germany  targets about 10 gigawatts by the same year.  “We are constantly surveying the market for future
projects,” Eldrup said. Germany, he noted, is an “interesting
place and our close neighbor.”  Eldrup is resigning “by mutual consent,” the company said
today. Krogsgaard Thomsen was named acting CEO as Dong started a
process to find a permanent replacement.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  