-- U.K. Stocks Are Little Changed; Rio Tinto, Misys Shares Decline in London
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-03-12T16:55:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/dtse-100-stocks-fall-ftse-100-snaps-its-three-day-rally-as-misys-declines.html
U.K. stocks  were little changed
after the largest three-day rally in more than a month as
 China ’s exports trailed forecasts and euro-area finance
ministers met to approve a second bailout for  Greece .  Rio Tinto  Group led mining shares lower.  Misys Plc (MSY) 
retreated 3.8 percent as Temenos Group AG said that talks with
U.K. software maker ended after no agreement was reached on the
terms of a possible merger.  Carnival Corp. (CCL)  advanced 1.5 percent
as analysts upgraded their recommendations on the world’s
largest cruise-ship operator.  The FTSE 100 added 5.26, or 0.1 percent, to 5,892.75 at the
close of trading in  London . The  volume  of shares changing hands
was 17 percent less than the average over the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The broader FTSE All-
Share Index also gained 0.1 percent today and Ireland’s ISEQ
Index lost 0.5 percent.  “Sentiment has soured over the weekend,” said Jonathan Sudaria, a trader at Capital Spreads in London. “The turmoil in
the West is dampening demand for Chinese goods.”  China had its biggest trade deficit last month since at
least 1989, adding to reports last week on factory output and
retail sales that signaled slowing growth for the world’s
second-biggest economy.  Exports (CNFREXPY)  increased 18.4 percent, the
customs bureau said, trailing the average forecast of 31 percent
in a Bloomberg survey of economists.  ECB Support  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  has still rallied 5.8 percent this year as the
 European Central Bank  lent regional financial institutions more
than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) for three years and U.S.
economic reports topped estimates.  Euro-area finance ministers seeking to step past the
largest sovereign-debt restructuring in history are attempting
to gain a foothold this week as they grapple with implementing
the latest Greek bailout.  Ministers from the 17 nations that share the euro gathered
in Brussels today to sign off on the 130 billion-euro second
package for Greece after bondholders agreed last week to take a
loss on the country’s debt. They’ll also focus on Spain’s
budget-cutting efforts and Portugal’s aid program, underscoring
their desire to prevent contagion.  “Markets now await the result of today’s Eurogroup
meeting, which is expected to finalise approval for the next
tranche of aid for Athens,” Chris Beauchamp, a market analyst
at IG Index in London, wrote in e-mailed comments.  Rio Tinto Slips  Rio Tinto, the world’s third-biggest mining company, lost
1.7 percent to 3,450.5 pence, snapping three days of gains.
 Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  declined 3.7 percent to 1,369 pence.  Misys sank 3.8 percent to 328 pence, the largest decline in
a month. The end of takeover talks with Temenos leaves interest
from ValueAct Capital, Misys’s largest shareholder, buyout firm
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and Vista Equity Partners. Misys said
today it will continue discussions with the private equity
companies.  Carnival (CCL)  gained 1.5 percent to 1,947 pence as Exane BNP
Paribas SA and Numis Securities Ltd. advised buying the shares.  Centamin Plc advanced 4.4 percent to 85 pence as it resumed
normal operations at its Sukari gold mine in  Egypt  after labor
unrest earlier this month.  Computacenter Plc (CCC)  surged 11 percent to 410 pence, the
biggest gain since May 2009. The supplier of computer services
to companies is due to release full-year earnings tomorrow.  Game Group Plc (GMG)  tumbled 64 percent to 1.28 pence, the lowest
level on record. The U.K.’s biggest independent video-games
retailer said it’s having trouble securing games from suppliers
for a second time this year as funding talks continue. The
shares have plunged 83 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  