-- Dynegy Will Meet With Creditors as U.S. Government Cites ‘Mismanagement’
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-03-12T17:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/dynegy-to-negotiate-with-creditors-after-u-s-cites-gross-mismanagement-.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  will negotiate with
creditors of one of its units after an investigation found a
transaction by the power company was fraudulent and the U.S.
government called for a trustee to take over management.  Dynegy and Dynegy Holdings LLC, the unit Dynegy put into
bankruptcy last year, will meet with creditors in an attempt to
reach a deal on a restructuring plan following the findings of
an examiner report.  “We think this case deserves -- and we think creditors
deserve -- the ability to sit down, focus and try to get to that
kind of plan,”  Thomas R. Kreller , a lawyer for Dynegy
bondholder Franklin Advisers, said at the hearing.  Dynegy, based in Houston, was in court today after the
examiner report was made public March 9 that found the
conveyance of coal-fired plants from the holding company to the
parent was a fraudulent transfer done for the benefit of
shareholders at the expense of creditors.  The U.S. Trustee, part of the  Justice Department  that
monitors bankruptcy proceedings, asked Morris to appoint a
trustee to manage the units in bankruptcy. The examiner’s report
demonstrates “gross mismanagement on the part of current
management,” U.S. Trustee Tracy Hope Davis said in a court
filing yesterday.  ‘Financial Detriment’  “The mismanagement of the debtors by their current
management to the financial detriment of the debtors’ creditors
provides cause for the appointment of an independent fiduciary
to manage the affairs of these debtors,” Davis said.  Dynegy spokeswoman Katy Sullivan didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment about the request for a trustee.
Dynegy fell 14 cents, or 18 percent, to 62 cents at 1:32 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  At today’s hearing, U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Cecelia Morris in
Poughkeepsie,  New York , told the examiner, Susheel Kirpalani, to
organize the negotiations. She set another hearing for April 4.  Dynegy is the fourth-largest U.S. independent power
producer by revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Independent power producers don’t own  power lines  and get no
revenue from state or federally regulated rates.  The case is In re Dynegy Holdings LLC, 11-38111,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Poughkeepsie).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  