-- Head-and-Shoulders to Boost U.S. 5-Year Treasury Yield: Technical Analysis
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-03-12T18:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/head-and-shoulders-signals-5-year-yield-rise-technical-analysis.html
The yield on the U.S.  five-year
note  may be setting up to rise to a more than four-month high as
it completes a complex reverse head-and-shoulders pattern, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch said, citing  technical analysis .  A break in the yield above 93 basis points, or 0.93
percentage point, would confirm the pattern and indicate the
yield may rise to as much as 1.22 percent, matching highs last
seen in October,  MacNeil Curry , head of foreign-exchange and
interest-rates technical strategy at the Bank of America Corp.
unit in New York, said in a telephone interview. The initial
target in the move is 1.02 percent, last touched in December,
before moving higher.  “We need to get a tick above 93 basis points to confirm,”
Curry said. “Equity markets breaking out to new highs would be
a bit of a catalyst, a continued pickup in risk asset
outperformance.”  The yield on the  five-year  note gained two basis points to
0.90 percent at 2:22 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The price of the security due in February
2017 fell 1/32, or 31 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 99 28
3/4. According to Curry, a decrease below 77 basis points would
invalidate the formation.  A reverse head-and-shoulder pattern occurs when movements
in a security form three bottoms, the middle of which is the
deepest. The five-year note yield’s formation has two dips for
each shoulder.  “It isn’t just one shoulder on one side,” Curry said.
“In theory, it could actually be a stronger sign -- it takes
longer to complete and could actually be more powerful.”  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security, commodity
or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  