-- Easiest Credit Worldwide Shows No Signs of Abating as Fear Index Plummets
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-03-12T00:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/easiest-credit-worldwide-shows-no-signs-of-abating-as-fear-index-plummets.html
Central bankers are taking a break
rather than hitting the brake.  Even as they pause campaigns to spur economic growth,
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi and counterparts at the Bank of England
and Bank of Japan aren’t taking signs of recovery for granted.
That’s a shift from 2011, when some greeted an improving outlook
by considering or embracing tighter monetary policy, only to see
expansion fade.  The bid to guarantee growth suggests officials at the four
key central banks won’t hurry to pull down the $9 trillion wall
of money on their combined balance sheets or boost  interest
rates  stuck near record lows. They also stand ready to add more
stimulus if the recent rebound proves another false dawn.  “The major central banks have learned there are deep,
pernicious problems,” said Nathan Sheets, New York-based head
of international economics at Citigroup Inc., who held a similar
position at the Fed until August. Now they are taking a cautious
approach on where their economies are headed “and a more
simulative stance of monetary policy.”  Cumberland Advisors Inc. and Fidelity Worldwide Investment
have bought equities and commodities in response, and Credit
Suisse Group AG advises investors to focus on assets such as
equities and gold that tend to gain amid long-term inflation. A
Credit Suisse index of nine stocks that benefit from
synchronized quantitative easing -- including Paris-based
Electricite de France SA, the world’s largest nuclear-power
producer -- has risen about  19 percent  in the past six months.  ‘Liquidity-Expansion Express’  Investors should “play the liquidity-expansion express,”
said  David Kotok , who helps manage about $2 billion as chairman
and chief investment officer at Sarasota, Florida-based
Cumberland. “Markets are adjusting to the condition of
continuing and persistent huge excess” of central-bank cash.  Officials now are taking stock after seeking to revive
economies in one of the most rapid-fire rounds of monetary
easing since the global financial crisis began five years ago.
There were 29 interest-rate cuts worldwide in the past four
months and $1 trillion in asset-buying in the last seven,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch calculations as of
March 6.  “We are in a peculiar environment whereby the policy
makers remain so nervous about another growth relapse that their
extreme monetary policies have perversely supported risk,” said
Stephen Jen, a managing partner at the London-based hedge fund
SLJ Macro Partners LLP. They “are in a fear mode, while
investors are in a greed mode.”  ‘Fear Index’  The VIX, a measure of equity volatility known as the “fear
index,” has dropped  60 percent  since the start of October,
while the Bloomberg World Index of stocks is up about  16
percent. (BWORLD)   Seeking to guarantee the recovery is a switch from 2011,
which also began with economies improving. The Fed ended its
second round of bond purchases in June and the next month
released “exit-strategy principles” that outlined how it would
unwind its balance sheet and normalize monetary policy. The ECB
went further, raising its benchmark rate 25 basis points in both
April and July to  1.5 percent .  Similar complacency could spell “a premature curtailment
of central-bank liquidity,” which hurts the world economy, said
 Trevor Greetham , director of asset allocation at Fidelity
Worldwide Investment in  London . He helps manage the equivalent
of about $214 billion and last month adopted an “overweight”
position in equities and commodities in his multi-asset funds
for the first time since July.  Standing Pat  After the ECB and  Bank of England  stood pat last week, the
Fed isn’t likely to take further steps to bolster U.S. expansion
when officials meet tomorrow, said  Dana Saporta , New York-based
U.S. economist for Credit Suisse. Officials will instead discuss
the likelihood of further declines in the  8.3 percent 
unemployment rate and potential threats of costlier oil, she
predicted.  “As far as any substantive changes to policy, we’re not
looking for much,” Saporta said.  This follows a period when the Fed introduced new measures
aimed at defending growth. In January it released for the first
time projections for its target interest rate and said inflation
and joblessness may warrant low rates through late 2014,
extending a previous terminus of mid-2013.  Having held its benchmark  near zero  since December 2008 and
purchased $2.3 trillion in assets during its two quantitative-
easing programs, the Fed said in September it will swap $400
billion of short-term debt with longer-term debt through June to
further cut borrowing costs.  ‘Juiced Up’  It “wants to keep things juiced up, even though things are
looking a lot better now than they did,” said  Eric Green , chief
economist and head of rate strategy in  New York  at TD Securities
Inc. and a former economist at the New York Fed. Unemployment
has fallen from 9.1 percent in August, and companies created
734,000 jobs in the past three months, compared with 471,000 in
September-November.  U.S. policy makers are signaling they may be open to more
steps, such as a third round of bond purchases, or QE3. A
“few” said economic conditions could warrant buying more
“before long,” according to minutes of their January meeting.  Fed regional presidents have publicly disagreed on the need
for adding stimulus, with San Francisco’s John Williams saying
QE3 is “definitely not off the table,” while Atlanta’s Dennis Lockhart said he doubts the gains would outweigh the “longer-
term potential costs.”  The ECB also is pausing after returning its benchmark rate
to a  record low  of 1 percent in December, freeing up collateral
rules and lending banks an unprecedented 1.02 trillion euros
($1.34 trillion) for three years.  Stabilizing Europe  That’s paid off, with investors crediting Draghi for
helping stabilize  Europe ’s two-year debt crisis. Italy’s 10-year
bond yields have fallen below 5 percent from more than 7 percent
in January, and the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index gained about  16 percent  since Dec. 30.  Data including purchasing-managers indexes suggest
resilience in the economy, even though gross domestic product
contracted  0.3 percent  in the fourth quarter and inflation
accelerated to an estimated  2.7 percent  in February -- breaching
the ECB’s goal of just below 2 percent.  In a sign of potential discord, ECB council member Jens Weidmann, who heads the Bundesbank, has begun warning that the
central bank may be taking on too much risk.  Further Cuts  Against this backdrop, Nomura International Plc’s Jens Sondergaard retracted his forecast for even lower rates and
perhaps more asset buying. The London-based economist still
predicts the benchmark will stay at 1 percent through 2013, and
counterparts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley continue
to see a further cut.  “The key at the moment is to keep all options open,”
Sondergaard said.  Meanwhile, the Bank of  Japan  boosted bond purchases in its
asset fund by 10 trillion yen ($121 billion), surprising 12 of
the 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg before the Feb. 14
decision who predicted no change in policy. The BOJ also
introduced an inflation target, with the 1 percent goal set at a
rate that hasn’t been seen since  deflation gripped Japan  in the
late 1990s.  The bank’s timing was unexpected because the economy was
showing signs of rebounding from an annualized 0.7 percent
contraction in the fourth quarter, as industrial production and
retail sales topped analysts’ estimates in January. Policy makers 
meet in  Tokyo  tomorrow.   Even if Japan’s “economic improvement doesn’t suggest more
easing is coming soon, the BOJ knows it can’t be complacent,”
said  Hideo Kumano , who worked at the central bank and is now
chief economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.  Divisions Forming  The Bank of England held its fire last week after boosting
its bond-buying plan by 50 billion pounds in February; it will
reach the target of 325 billion pounds ($509 billion) by May.
Again there are divisions forming, with Martin Weale indicating
he may not favor further purchases and David Miles saying
there’s a case for “aggressively” loosening policy.  The world’s easy money leaves a JPMorgan Chase measure of
rates in the developed world at 0.58 percent, just five basis
points above the trough in late 2009, and the bank’s economists
predict the average will fall to 0.5 percent by June.  Unable to cut much lower and forced into unconventional
bank loans and asset purchases, U.S., Japan, euro-area and U.K.
central banks have seen their combined balance sheet swell to
about 25 percent of GDP from 10 percent in late 2008, according
to Michala Marcussen, global chief economist at Societe
Generale. She anticipates another 4 percentage point gain this
year.  Tighter Fiscal Policy  Central bankers have valid reasons to assess the outlook
before acting. The world economy still could be threatened by a
reigniting of Europe’s debt crisis or further gains in oil
prices, which have risen about 23 percent in the past six
months. Governments are tightening fiscal policy, banks are
restricting lending,  China ’s economy is slowing and  elections  in
some 60 nations from the U.S. to  France  and  South Korea  mean
political uncertainty.  Stopping the liquidity injections may itself be enough to
harm stock markets, according to  Garry Evans , head of global
equity strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc in  Hong Kong . Between March
31, 2010, when the Fed concluded its first quantitative easing,
and August 27, 2010, when Bernanke signaled it might restart,
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 9 percent.  Unintended Consequences  At the same time, doling out even more liquidity could risk
unintended consequences such as inflation, addicted banks and
asset bubbles, said SLJ’s Jen. The spread between U.S. Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities and nominal bonds already
suggests prices will rise  2.29 percent  during the next decade,
up from a 2011 low of 1.67 percent.  Monetary easing in developed countries is complicating life
for  emerging markets  by increasing commodity costs and price
pressures in nations whose currencies follow the dollar,
according to Spyros Andreopoulos, an economist at Morgan Stanley
in London. That results in a monetary “merry-go-round” that
exports inflation back to the industrial economies through more-
expensive goods.  Brazil’s President Dilma Rousseff last week bemoaned a
“monetary tsunami” hitting her economy, and the Banco Central
do Brasil accelerated the pace of interest-rate cuts.  “Central banks are behaving like there is a free lunch,”
Jen said. “There will be consequences.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  