-- Eastern European Banks Keep Support From Parents, Fitch Says
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-03-13T19:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/eastern-europe-banks-keep-support-as-funding-shifts-fitch-says.html
Western European lenders such as
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  are maintaining support
for units in the region’s east even as they steer them toward
local funding because of new capital rules,  Fitch Ratings  said.  The lenders, which own three-quarters of eastern Europe’s
banking industry, want local deposits to finance their units’
lending as stricter regulatory requirements force them to sell
assets and bolster capital. Still, declines in funding have been
limited, according to Artur Szeski, director at Fitch’s
financial institutions department in Warsaw.  “We see a shift in the parents’ policy going forward but
we don’t see anything drastic happening in terms of a cut in the
ability to get funding from parents,” Szeski said in a March 7
phone interview. “We haven’t seen any instance when the capital
wasn’t made available to the subsidiary when it was needed.”  Western European banks, which dominate the east European
banking industry, must work with European and local regulators
to limit the risks of a credit squeeze, the Vienna Initiative
group of global lenders, regulators and policy makers, which
helped keep eastern Europe’s banking industry afloat in the
aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy, said
today following a meeting with banks in Brussels today.  The banks should help “maintain credit conditions
consistent with sustainable economic growth,” according to the
proposals agreed on today.  Austria’s  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) ,  France ’s
 Societe Generale SA (GLE) , Italy’s  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP) , Belgium’s  KBC
Groep NV (KBC)  and  ING Groep NV (INGA)  of the Netherlands are all active in
eastern Europe.  Markets Rebound  The  International Monetary Fund , the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development, the  World Bank  and the European
Investment Bank spent $42 billion in the two years through 2010
supporting eastern banks and businesses.  Eastern European financial markets have rebounded this year
after the  European Central Bank ’s longer-term refinancing
operations helped lenders in the region’s west.  Poland ’s zloty is the world’s best performer this year with
an 8.5 percent gain against the euro, while the Hungarian forint
is fourth-best, advancing 7.2 percent. The currencies were the
worst performers in the second half of last year behind the
Belarusian ruble on concern the euro-region’s debt crisis would
spread eastward.  The zloty fell 0.4 percent to 4.1251 per euro at 7:52 p.m.
and the forint rose 0.9 percent to 291.49 against Europe’s
common currency.  Shares Advance  Erste gained 2.1 percent to close at 18.38 euros in Vienna.
The bank’s shares in Prague gained 1.4 percent to 452 koruna.
UniCredit rose 3.9 percent to 4.052 euros in Milan.  Komercni
Banka AS (KOMB) , a unit of Societe Generale, was up 1.3 percent, to
3,832 koruna in Prague, and Raiffeisen rose 1.4 percent to 25.20
euros in Vienna. OTP Bank Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest lender,
advanced 1.3 percent to 3,930 forint in Budapest.  The ECB allocated 529.5 billion euros ($695 billion) in
three-year loans to 800 European banks on Feb. 29, after
supplying 489 billion euros on Dec. 21.  “The LTRO helped a lot because it eased a lot of pressure
on the banking groups in some countries and the take-up both in
December and in February was large,” Szeski said. “This helped
these banks contain their liquidity issues.”  Bank-related capital outflows from emerging  Europe  were
“substantial” in the second part of last year, the EBRD said
in a report on its website Feb. 28. Hungary’s outflows
accelerated last year and net outflows in Poland totaled 2
percent of economic output between July and November 2011,
according to data compiled by the EBRD.  ‘Can’t Draw Conclusions’  While funding has declined somewhat, large-scale
deleveraging hasn’t occurred so far, according to Szeski. An
economic slowdown across the region, as export markets in the
euro area grapple with a debt crisis, is curtailing demand for
new loans and is undermining  credit quality , he said.  “Funding from the parent banks is falling but one can’t
draw conclusions from that on the simple fact,” Szeski said.
“There isn’t enough quality demand for loans locally. It’s not
that the banks aren’t extending enough loans because there isn’t
enough funding or capital.”  The IMF cut its growth forecast for central and eastern
Europe in January, citing “strains in the euro area.” The
region will expand a combined 1.1 percent this year, the IMF
said. The extent of the revision from a September estimate, 1.6
percentage points, mirrored the cut in the euro region’s
forecast.  Continued Commitment  Parent banks are signaling their continued commitment to
eastern Europe by providing capital to their units where needed,
according to Szeski.  Erste, eastern Europe’s second-biggest lender behind
UniCredit, injected capital into its Hungarian and Romanian
units last year as it swung to a full-year loss after writedowns
and provisions of 1.6 billion euros.  Raiffeisen, the region’s third-largest bank, said March 9
it will raise its stakes in two east European units, Slovakia’s
 Tatra Banka AS (TAT)  and Raiffeisenbank AS in the  Czech Republic , to
prepare for the introduction of Basel III guidelines in 2013.  “Even in countries where parent banks have major issues
with subsidiaries -- and Hungary is a good example -- the parent
banks are standing behind the subsidiaries,” he said.  At the same time, a shift toward local funding has begun,
according to Szeski. Austria, whose banks are collectively the
biggest in eastern Europe, told its three biggest lenders to
limit loans in the region to 1.1 times the funding they can
raise locally. It also imposed a capital surcharge whose size
depends on their eastern European business.  Parent banks would like subsidiaries to be self-funded,
even as regards foreign-currency lending, Szeski said.  “This isn’t feasible overnight but this is the policy
statement going forward,” he said. “It’s good from the point
of view of the future stability of these markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  