-- ECB Settles First Government Bond Purchases in a Month
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-03-12T15:33:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/ecb-settles-government-bond-purchases-for-first-time-in-a-month.html
The  European Central Bank  settled
government bond purchases for the first time in four weeks.  The Frankfurt-based ECB said it settled 27 million euros
($35 million) of purchases, as part of the Securities Markets
Program, in the week ended March 9 after three weeks of
inactivity. The ECB bought short-dated Portuguese securities on
Feb. 29, according to two people with knowledge of the
transactions. Purchases made mid-week or later sometimes don’t
settle until the following week.  The purchases have dwindled since the ECB started offering
banks unlimited three-year loans in December, injecting more
than 1 trillion euros in the system. That has helped drive a
bond-market rally and reduced the need for the central bank to
intervene. ECB council member Ewald Nowotny has said the bond-
purchase program “is more or less on hold.”  “The SMP program has now probably run its course,” Peter Vanden Houte, an economist at ING Belgium SA in Brussels, said
in a note to investors. “Some symbolic purchases is the best
that can be expected in the coming months.”  Portugal ’s implied borrowing costs have still increased as
investors fret about whether it will follow  Greece  in having to
restructure its debt. While the nation’s 10-year bond yield has
dropped from a euro-era record of 18.29 percent on Jan. 31, at
13.12 percent it is still higher than its 2011 average of 10.17
percent. The two-year rate of 11.2 percent has more than doubled
in the past year.  The ECB says its bond purchases are aimed solely at
ensuring its  interest rates  are transmitted on financial
markets. The program has nevertheless split the central bank’s
policy makers, some of whom say it blurs the line between
monetary and fiscal policy.  The ECB said 1.5 billion euros of purchased bonds matured
last week. It will take seven-day term deposits tomorrow to
absorb the 218 billion euros of liquidity created since the
program started in May 2010, a practice it employs to ensure the
purchases don’t fuel inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  