-- Misys Continues Private-Equity Talks as Discussions With Rival Temenos End
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-03-12T08:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/temenos-ends-misys-merger-talks-after-failing-to-reach-agreement-on-terms.html
Misys Plc (MSY) , a U.K. financial
software company, continues to consider offers from Vista Equity
Partners, ValueAct Capital and CVC Capital Partners Ltd. after
merger talks with  Switzerland ’s  Temenos Group AG (TEMN)  ended.  Misys and Temenos on Feb. 3 said they were working on a
merger that would create the largest vendor of banking software.
“Despite extensive discussions, the parties were unable to
agree final terms of a transaction,” Misys said in a statement
today.  Last week ValueAct Capital, Misys’s largest shareholder and
initially a backer of Temenos’s merger proposal, joined forces
with buyout firm CVC Capital Partners Ltd. to work on a cash bid
for the London-based company. Vista Equity Partners is also
considering a separate offer. Misys said today it will continue
talkS with the private equity companies.  Misys dropped as much as 1.8 percent to 335 pence in  London 
and traded at that level as of 8:03 a.m., valuing the company at
1.12 billion pounds ($1.8 billion). Temenos dropped as much as
3.1 percent in Zurich.  Geneva-based Temenos, which initially had until March 6 to
announce a firm intention to make an offer for Misys, last week
had gained approval to defer the decision until April 2.  Temenos said today it still has the right to make an offer
for Misys or participate in an offer if Misys’ board agrees or
if a third party makes a firm bid. These are “standard
conditions” for ending merger talks in the U.K., a Temenos
spokesman said via phone today.  Misys has formed an independent committee of board
directors to consider all offers.  Banking Regulation  Misys in February agreed to the Temenos proposal, which
would have give its shareholders about 54 percent of the
combined company. Previous talks to sell the business to
Fidelity National Information Services Inc. last year collapsed
when the two failed to agree on price, a person with knowledge
of the matter said at the time.  Companies that sell financial software to businesses are
proving attractive to private-equity firms as mounting banking
regulations increase demand. In August,  Bain Capital  agreed to
buy a majority stake in MYOB Pty Ltd., an Australian provider of
 business software  that had also attracted a bid from Sage Group
Plc.  Misys makes software for cash, wealth and risk management
as well as for syndicated lending, over-the-counter derivatives
trading and post-trade processing. It has more than 1,300
banking customers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  