-- Energy Week Ahead: Chu Faces Senate Grilling on Energy Loans
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-03-12T04:01:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/energy-week-ahead-chu-faces-senate-grilling-on-energy-loans.html
Energy Secretary Steven Chu and
former Treasury official Herbert M. Allison Jr. take center
stage at a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee hearing
on loan guarantees on March 13.  Potential losses from the Energy Department’s loan programs
will probably be less than both Congress and the White House
projected, according to a Jan. 31 report by Allison, who was
recruited by the White House for the review. Republicans,
primarily in the House, have attacked the program as a wasteful
attempt to pick “winners and losers.”  The House Energy and Commerce Committee has conducted a
yearlong investigation into the loan guarantee for Solyndra LLC,
a Fremont, California-based solar panel maker that filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in September, two years after winning a
$535 million loan guarantee.  Expect the Senate panel’s grilling of Allison and Chu to be
gentler than what the House committee would dole out. Allison’s
report “gives reassurance” that Energy officials correctly
assessed the risks of the loan program, Senator  Jeff Bingaman , a
New Mexico Democrat and the committee’s chairman, said in a Feb.
22  statement .  The program provides federal backing of loans for clean-
energy projects for power generation, cellulosic-ethanol
production and advanced vehicle technologies, according to the
Energy Department.  The Allison Report reviewed 30 loans in a portfolio worth
$23.87 billion. It estimated the long-term projected loss to the
government at $2.7 billion, about $200 million less than the
Energy Department’s latest estimate and considerably less than
the $10 billion Congress established for losses to clean-energy
and auto loan programs, according to  Eric Schultz , a White House
spokesman.  Allison’s review was limited to companies that are still in
operation and therefore didn’t include the bankrupt Solyndra.  The Energy Department’s loan-guarantee program “has flaws
that need to be addressed,”  Lisa Murkowski  of  Alaska , the
Senate committee’s top Republican, said in a  statement  Feb. 10,
when the report was released publicly. Murkowski has been trying
to get Chu to testify since Solyndra filed for bankruptcy.
Tomorrow she’ll get Allison, too.  ALSO WORTH WATCHING:  JACZKO ROUNDTABLE: Nuclear Regulatory Commission Chairman
 Gregory Jaczko , who’s been pushing for safety improvements at
U.S. reactors, will hold a “media roundtable” on March 13
after delivering a speech in Bethesda,  Maryland .  KEYSTONE REDUX: The Senate on March 13 may take up a proposal
from Senator  Pat Roberts  to boost oil and gas production on U.S.
lands and approve TransCanada Corp.’s proposed Keystone XL
pipeline. The measure from the Kansas Republican is an amendment
to the Highway Bill.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Enoch at 
 denoch@bloomberg.net  