-- Energy Trade Group Challenges EPA Biological Additive Rule
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-03-12T19:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/energy-trade-group-files-court-challenge-to-epa-biological-additive-rule.html
An oil and gas industry trade
association asked a federal appeals court to review a U.S.
 Environmental Protection Agency  regulation governing fuel
additives including biological materials.  The group, the  American Petroleum Institute , is seeking to
overturn an EPA standard mandating the purchase of fuels
formulated in part from biological materials including
switchgrass, wood chips and agricultural waste.  The rule “forces refiners to purchase credits for
cellulosic fuels that do not exist,” the association Director
of Downstream and Industry Operations Bob Greco said today in a
statement. The rule “is effectively a tax on manufacturers of
gasoline that could ultimately burden consumers.”  First passed in 2007, the regulation required refiners to
buy 250 million gallons of biofuel annually. Production failed
to reach that level and the agency reduced the target to
6.6 million for 2011, and 8.65 million for this year.  The  Biotechnology Industry Organization  backed the measure
in a letter to EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  last month,
stating the renewable-fuel standard was first developed in 2005
during the administration of President  George W. Bush  to drive
the continued development of the nation’s biofuels industry.  The standard “provides industry and investors with the
confidence of knowing that if they can produce advanced and
cellulosic biofuels, the RFS will ensure  market access ,” James Greenwood, president of the Washington-based group, told
Jackson.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment on the legal challenge. The
petition was filed March 9 with the Washington-based U.S. Court
of Appeals.  The case is American Petroleum Institute v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 12-1139, U.S. Circuit Court for
the District of Columbia Circuit ( Washington ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington
at   mdrajem@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 