-- Thermax, Geosyndicate May Bid for North India Geothermal Plant
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-03-12T10:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/thermax-geosyndicate-may-bid-for-north-india-geothermal-plant.html
Thermax Ltd. (TMX) , a maker of
electricity generation equipment, and  Geosyndicate Power Pvt. 
may bid separately to build a five-megawatt geothermal project
in north India, a government official said.  The two companies attended a meeting of potential investors
in the city of Jammu last week, Farooq Ahangar, assistant
general manager at Jammu & Kashmir State Power Development
Corp., the government-run agency overseeing the auction, said by
telephone today. Bids are due by March 20 and the deadline may
be extended to the first week of April because the companies
have sought more time, he said.  The project in the Pugah valley would be one of India’s
first aimed at producing electricity from underground heat, a
renewable technology that’s valued for its potential to generate
around the clock unlike wind and solar power. Geosyndicate, a
Mumbai-based developer, estimates  India  has the resources to
produce as much as 150,000 megawatts of geothermal power,
roughly equal to 80 percent of India’s total current installed
power capacity.  Geosyndicate Chairman D. Chandrasekharam wasn’t available
for comment when phoned at his office in Mumbai. Thermax didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail requesting confirmation of the
bid plans.  The winner of the auction will be awarded rights to build
and operate the plant for 18 years, including three years for
construction, and also drill at least two wells of 2,000 meters
(1,243 miles) in depth to help assess the area’s geothermal
potential, according to a bid document from the agency.  Geosyndicate is working on a 25-megawatt plant in  Andhra
Pradesh  and a 60-megawatt project in Ladakh, according to its
website. Thermax, a Pune-based power equipment maker, is
partnering Iceland-based Reykjavik Geothermal to explore for
geothermal resources in the Ratnagiri region in western
Maharashtra state.  Tata Power Co. (TPWR) , India’s largest non-state utility, has
invested in two geothermal projects in Australia and  Indonesia 
with Sydney-based  Origin Energy Ltd. (ORG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  