-- Esmark Founder Bouchard’s Shale Inland to Buy HD Supply Unit
-- B y   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-03-12T22:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/esmark-founder-bouchard-s-shale-inland-to-buy-hd-supply-unit-2-.html
Shale-Inland, the steel distributor
founded by Craig Bouchard, agreed to buy a unit of HD Supply
Inc. in a deal in which the combined company will be controlled
by buyout firm TowerBrook Capital Partners LP.  The Stephens Group LLC will also be an investor in Shale
Inland Holdings LLC, the new company formed as a result of the
transaction, Schiller Park, Illinois-based Shale-Inland said
today in a statement.  Bouchard plans to pay about $500 million for HD’s
Industrial PVF unit, people with knowledge of the matter said
yesterday. Industrial PVF sells industrial pipe, valves, and
fittings for use in oil refineries and power plants, with
revenue of $569 million in the year ended Jan. 30, 2011. Shale-
Inland’s products include bumpers for Ford Motor Co. vehicles
and lids for cooking pans.  Before establishing Shale-Inland, Bouchard, 58, and his
brother James, the sons of workers at Inland Steel Co., founded
Esmark Inc. in 2003. They built the company via acquisitions,
including the hostile takeover of Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel
Corp., into the fifth-biggest U.S. steelmaker. OAO Severstal,
 Russia ’s largest steel producer, bought Esmark for $775 million
in 2008.  James Bouchard runs a closely held company under the Esmark
name that includes steel, oil and gas production and other
divisions.  HD Supply, based in Atlanta, is the former wholesale
distribution arm of Home Depot Inc. Private-equity firms Bain
Capital LLC, Carlyle Group LP and Clayton Dubilier & Rice LLC,
bought the company for $8.5 billion in 2007.  TowerBrook is the New York-based former buyout arm of
billionaire  George Soros ’s hedge fund firm. Spun off in 2005,
the firm and manages about $4.5 billion now, according to its
website.  Deutsche Bank AG is advising HD Supply on the planned sale,
said the people with knowledge of the matter who spoke on
condition of anonymity as the deal hadn’t been disclosed at the
time.  General Electric Co.’s (GE)  GE Capital unit is providing
financing to the buyers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 Selmquist1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  