-- Metal-on-Metal Hip Implants Should Be Banned, Lancet Study Finds
-- B y   T r i s t a   K e l l e y
-- 2012-03-12T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/metal-on-metal-hip-implants-should-be-banned-review-says.html
Metal-on-metal hip implants are
more likely to fail than devices made from other materials and
should be banned, U.K. researchers said after reviewing the
 world’s largest database  on hip replacements.  More than 500,000 patients in the U.S. and 40,000 in the
U.K. have metal-on-metal hips and are at higher risk of device
failure, according to the analysis, which was published today in
The Lancet. Failure rates were as much as four times higher in
women, who are likelier to have implants containing a larger
prosthetic femoral head.  The use of larger metal implants became popular because it
was thought that they reduced the likelihood of dislocation and
were highly resistant to wear, researchers led by Ashley Blom
from the  University of Bristol  in the U.K. wrote in the study.
Manufacturers of the devices include Johnson & Johnson,  Zimmer
Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  and  Smith & Nephew Plc. (SN/)   Metal-on-metal implants failed much more quickly than those
with other surfaces. Overall, 6.2 percent of patients need a
second operation in five years. The larger the hip, the earlier
they failed -- each 1-millimeter increase in femoral head
diameter corresponded to a 2 percent increase in the risk of
failure. Larger ceramic-on-ceramic implants fared better in the
analysis, the researchers said.  “Metal-on-metal stemmed articulations give poor implant
survival compared with other options and should not be
implanted,” Blom and his colleagues wrote. “All patients with
these bearings should be carefully monitored, particularly young
women implanted with large diameter heads.”  Joint Registry  Researchers analyzed data from the National Joint Registry
of England and  Wales , which includes information on more than
400,000 hip replacements implanted between 2003 and 2011, and
tracked for up to 7 years after surgery. Of those, 31,171 were
metal-on-metal. The registry funded the research.  The study follows findings reported last month that
hundreds of thousands of people worldwide may have been exposed
to high levels of toxic cobalt and chromium ions that can seep
into tissues and destroy muscle and bone, leaving some patients
with long-term disability, according to an investigation by the
British Medical Journal and the British Broadcasting Corp.  Many medical devices didn’t undergo clinical testing like
that required of drugs before they were used in patients, the
BMJ and  BBC  said at the time. Manufacturers have replaced
plastic with metal materials over the last decade to improve
movement and decrease dislocation without conducting safety
studies, they said.  “Policy makers need to appreciate that registry data alone
are not a substitute for good pre-marketing studies, which
should include testing of implants,” Art Sedrakyan, an
associate professor of public health at the  Weill Cornell
Medical College  at  Cornell University  in  New York , wrote in an
accompanying commentary. “When failures take a long time to
develop, many faulty products can enter the market.”  DePuy Orthopaedics Inc., a unit of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , pays
royalties related to a cemented total hip prosthesis to one of
the researchers, Martyn Porter. The other four authors declared
no conflict of interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Trista Kelley in London at 
 tkelley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  