-- Ethiopian Charity Law Destroys Human-Rights Groups, Amnesty Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-03-12T09:34:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/ethiopian-charity-law-destroys-human-rights-groups-amnesty-says.html
Ethiopia ’s ban on charities from
working on human-rights issues if they receive more than 10
percent of their funds from abroad has had a devastating impact
on advocacy groups in the country,  Amnesty International  said.  Organizations closed, shifted focus or scaled down their
activities because of the 2009 statute, which also forces
charities to spend no more than 30 percent of their funds on
administration, the London-based organization said.  “Since the law came into force, it has had a devastating
impact on human-rights organizations in Ethiopia, and therefore
also on the promotion and protection of the rights of the
Ethiopian people,” it said in a report released today. “The
impact of the law is that today human-rights organizations
barely exist in Ethiopia.”  Ethiopia’s government said in 2009 it introduced the law to
regulate the country’s more than 3,800 non-governmental
organizations. It also said that it was the role of the state,
rather than foreign-backed groups, to protect human and
democratic rights.  Along with Ethiopia’s media law and anti-terrorism
legislation, the so-called Charities and Societies Proclamation
has restricted criticism of a government that is responsible for
human-rights violations, Amnesty said. Its impact “has been to
entrench still further, and even to institutionalize, the
climate of fear pervading the work of human rights defenders in
Ethiopia,” it said. “A number of human rights defenders fled the
country as soon as the law was passed.”  Communications Minister Bereket Simon and State Minister of
Communications Shimeles Kemal didn’t answer calls to their
mobile phones seeking comment today.  The  Human Rights Council , an independent monitor of human-
rights abuses that had its foreign funding frozen by the
government, had to close 9 out of 12 branches because of the
law, according to Amnesty.  In another case study, the group said that the Ethiopian
Women Lawyers Association had to fire almost 75 percent of its
staff. The association, which also had its bank account frozen,
was the “the only major organization focussing exclusively on
 women’s rights  at the national level,” Amnesty said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 