-- EU Meat Prices May Fall as Schmallenberg Reduces Exports
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-03-12T17:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/eu-meat-prices-may-fall-as-schmallenberg-reduces-exports-1-.html
EU beef prices at a record may fall
along with lamb and pork on reduced demand if countries react to
the Schmallenberg virus by banning European meat, according to
Rabobank International.  European Union beef prices jumped 20 percent to 3.92 euros
a kilogram, or $2.34 a pound, in the first two months of the
year compared with a year earlier, pork prices gained 11 percent
to 1.57 euros and lamb rose 10 percent to 5.93 euros a kilogram
as animal herds shrunk amid rising feed costs, Albert Vernooij,
a Utrecht, Netherlands-based Rabobank analyst, said by e-mail.
 Russia  has said it will ban shipments of  Europe ’s cattle and
hogs from March 20 because of the infection.  The virus, which causes stillbirths and deformities in
offspring, has been found on 923 farms in Germany, 670 in  France 
and 158 in the U.K., data from the countries show. If other
countries follow suit or Russia expands its ban, the price of
meat in Europe will fall, said Vernooij, who correctly forecast
rising prices last year. Russia was the leading destination for
EU beef and pork in 2011, Rabobank data show.  “Russia has announced that it may expand the ban, applying
it not only to the import of all live cattle, pigs and sheep,
but more importantly, to beef, pork and sheepmeat from the whole
EU,” Vernooij said. “While the impact of the first ban on meat
prices will be limited because live exports of slaughter-ready
animals to Russia are already minimal, the possible ban on meat
exports would have a negative impact on EU meat prices.”  Gareth Barlow, a producer in North Yorkshire, England, who
supplies high-end restaurants with lamb from a rare breed known
as Hebrideans, said so far he’s not been affected by the virus.
The virus, first found in  Germany  in November, is spread by
midges and was detected after sheep suffered from neonatal
malformations, according to the European Commission.  Cure Mileage  The only way to stop it is to find a cure and because of
Schmallenberg’s scope, “health companies can see good mileage
in getting one produced as quickly as possible,” Barlow said.  “It is a waiting game,” he said. “As the virus’s vector
is the midge, the presence of the virus is inevitable. It seems
that it will be hard to mitigate against it, and to try and
minimize any losses of lambs will be tricky as well.”  Meat prices may increase if countries don’t implement bans
on EU meat, Vernooij said. Demand rises in the summer during
barbecue season and, if a cure for the virus is found or it
doesn’t spread, prices may gain further after beef rose 18
percent in 2011, said Rachel Bush, a consultant for Bidwells
Agribusiness in Cambridge,  England .  Shrinking Dairy Sector  “We’re hoping it’s a minor blip for lamb,” Bush said by
phone. “We have seen supply shrink, the prime cattle herd, the
best you can get, shrunk 5 percent and that led to prices
rising. Also there’s a shrinking dairy sector across Europe
that’s led to less cattle and less beef.”  Global  food prices  rose for a second consecutive month in
February, the  Food and Agriculture Organization  of the  United
Nations  said on March 8. Food prices may stay at current levels
this year because of rising demand, said  Abdolreza Abbassian , a
senior economist at the FAO. The FAO Meat Price Index gained 0.3
percent in February from a month earlier.  U.S. cattle futures on Feb. 22 reached a record $1.3150 a
pound on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and feeder cattle,
animals that graze on grass before being sent to feedlots,
touched the highest price ever on March 2 as the size of the
U.S. beef-cow herd shrunk to the smallest since 1962.  The U.K.  cattle herd  on Dec. 1 fell to 9.7 million head,
the lowest for the time of year since 2005, the Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs said on March 8.  Russian Reaction  Still, slack demand may curb prices for meat in Europe if
exports fall, Vernooij said. How long any bans may last isn’t
known and that makes estimating how far meat prices will decline
difficult, he said.  “If other countries mimic Russia’s reaction to the
disease, it could worsen the situation in the EU,” Vernooij
said. “Another complicating factor is that the duration of a
possible meat import ban remains unclear, rendering it virtually
impossible to forecast the real impact on EU meat prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  