-- EU Sees ‘Limited’ Effects of Court Ruling on ING’s Bailout Terms
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-03-12T11:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/eu-sees-limited-effects-of-court-ruling-on-ing-s-bailout-terms.html
ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s victory in a court
case on the European Union’s terms of its state bailout will
have “limited” consequences for reviews of other bank rescues,
according to the EU’s antitrust chief.  “I don’t think the consequences of this decision will go
beyond the need” to formally re-examine the terms for the Dutch
lender’s 2008 bailout, EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  told reporters today. There is a “high probability”
that regulators would appeal the ruling, he said.  The EU’s General Court said the European Commission wrongly
considered a revision of repayment terms as 2 billion euros
($2.6 billion) of additional aid to ING on top of 10 billion
euros it received in 2008. The court struck down part of the
EU’s decision, which forces regulators to re-open their
assessment of part of the Dutch government’s bailout to the
bank.  EU governments spent 1.6 trillion euros to shore up banks
from 2008 to 2010 amid the financial crisis that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to the
commission, most of that in loan guarantees and fresh capital.
The EU must approve large state subsidies and can impose
conditions on the aid.  ING is still studying the judgment and its consequences,
Raymond Vermeulen, spokesman of the Amsterdam-based bank, said
in an interview today. He declined to comment on Almunia’s
statement.  Balance Sheet  ING was ordered by the commission to sell units to shrink
its balance sheet by 45 percent by the end of 2013 and avoid
undercutting rivals on prices for some banking products for
three years or until it repaid the aid. The lender returned 5
billion euros of aid in 2009 after agreeing with the Netherlands
on revised terms. The EU regulator determined that change
amounted to extra aid of about 2 billion euros.  Almunia said the Dutch government must still resubmit its
request for the EU to start re-examining the aid for ING.  Belgium ’s  KBC Groep NV (KBC)  is one of three other financial
services providers that mirrored ING’s actions in seeking to
change the terms of government aid repayments, Almunia said.  The Belgian government and the bank are “complying very
smoothly” with the EU, he said, and Aegon NV and  SNS Reaal NV (SR) 
have settled their cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 