-- Euro Finance Chiefs Give Political Backing to Greek Plan
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-03-12T23:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/euro-finance-chiefs-give-political-backing-to-170-billion-greek-aid-plan.html
Euro-area finance ministers signed
off on a second Greek bailout, clearing the way for the first
payment from the 130 billion-euro package ($170 billion) to be
made this month.  “The new Greek program is not only in its starting blocks,
but has been politically adopted tonight by the euro group,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads the
group of 17 finance ministers, said in Brussels late yesterday.
Euro finance officials will give a formal approval on March 14,
a day before the International Monetary Fund board votes on its
contribution.  Greece is now in line to receive more than 100 billion
euros in the next three years from the European Financial
Stability Facility, the euro region’s temporary rescue fund,
starting with payments of 5.9 billion euros in March, 3.3
billion euros in April and 5.3 billion euros in May, EFSF Chief
Executive Officer Klaus Regling said.  The agreement caps months of grueling negotiations between
Greece, the IMF and euro-area authorities over the successor to
an initial 2010 bailout that failed to halt the debt crisis. To
win new the aid package,  Greece  had to sign on to deep budget
cuts and complete the world’s largest-ever sovereign debt
restructuring.  ‘Fundamental Obligations’  “The situation has changed for Greece today and this will
have an effect on the economic life of the country,” Greek
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters. Greece has
“fundamental obligations” and must continue to implement its
austerity program, he said, adding that elections in Greece
won’t interrupt the pace of budget measures.  The debt swap wipes more than 100 billion euros off
Greece’s books and includes the use of collective action clauses
to compel investor participation. Euro finance ministers agreed
on March 9 that Greece had met the terms for bailout funding and
released 35.5 billion euros in payments and interest to
bondholders.  As a result of the swap, Greece’s debt is on track to fall
to 117 percent of gross domestic product by 2020, creating a
buffer as the country strives to meet its commitments, Juncker
said. Greece’s future in the euro area is assured “whatever
will happen,” he said.  Bank Recapitalization  The Greek rescue package means that the EFSF will be
looking to financial markets more frequently as well as issuing
bonds directly on a “non-cash” basis, Regling said. Last week,
the fund issued 66 billion euros in bonds and bills without
tapping the markets, comprised of 35 billion euros in European
Central Bank collateral enhancements and 31 billion euros in
accrued interest and debt swap sweeteners.  Going forward, the fund expects to disburse 48 billion
euros on a non-cash basis for Greece’s bank recapitalization
efforts. Venizelos said he expects his nation to receive a 25
billion-euro first tranche of bank-sector funds soon.  The rest of the funds headed for Greece will be raised from
financial markets, Regling said. The fund also will continue to
support ongoing rescue programs in Portugal and Ireland.  “We will from now on go frequently to the market. And next
week alone we may go three times to issue short-term bills, to
issue five-year bonds and possibly also issue 25- or 30-year
bonds,” Regling said. “Given these amounts, the EFSF will be
in the market from now on a very regular basis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Brussels at  mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  