-- Leveson Defends Criticism of U.K. Media After Lawyer Complaints
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-03-12T11:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/leveson-defends-criticism-of-u-k-media-after-lawyer-complaints.html
Brian Leveson, the U.K. judge
running an investigation into media ethics, defended the
inquiry’s ability to examine the press after complaints from the
lawyer of former  News Corp. (NWSA)  tabloid editor Rebekah Brooks.  The inquiry, commissioned by Prime Minister  David Cameron 
following the phone hacking scandal at News Corp.’s News of the
World, doesn’t intend to put out reports on journalists that
would lead to or prejudice a criminal investigation, Leveson
said today. Still, Leveson wouldn’t back away from criticizing
individuals who may have misled the judicial probe by denying
knowledge of past wrongdoing.  Individuals who may be censured by the inquiry will have a
chance to respond, Leveson said.  Stephen Parkinson , Brooks’s
lawyer, said last week in the  Daily Telegraph  that testimony
there may prejudice the right to a fair trial. Brooks stepped
down as chief executive officer of News Corp.’s U.K. publishing
unit after News of the World journalists were found to have
hacked into a murdered schoolgirl’s voice mail for stories. She
has been arrested and not charged with a crime.  “Witnesses have been summoned before both Parliament and
the Leveson Inquiry,” Parkinson wrote. “While those under
police investigation have been permitted to maintain their
silence on issues central to that process, others have been
questioned with few restrictions. As a result, much prejudicial
material has come into the public domain.”  Police are conducting three investigations into voice mail
and computer hacking and improper payments to police and public
officials. The inquiry’s mandate is to publish recommendations
for a better way to regulate the media.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  