-- Ex-Lehman Executive Bradley Jack Faces Second Prescription Forgery Charge
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-03-12T17:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/ex-lehman-executive-bradley-jack-faces-second-prescription-forgery-charge.html
Former  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)  managing director Bradley H. Jack was arrested a second
time for drug prescription forgery, hurting his chance to avoid
prosecution on the previous charge through a pretrial diversion
program.  Jack, 53, turned himself in and was charged March 9 with
second-degree forgery for a November incident in which he forged
the date on a prescription for a controlled substance at a CVS
pharmacy that was made out to him by a doctor in Fairfield,
Connecticut, according to Capt. Sam Arciola of the Westport
Police Department. Jack was released on $5,000 bond and has a
March 21 court appearance.  In August, Jack, of Westport, was allowed to enter so-
called accelerated rehabilitation, a program that is available
to people charged with less-serious crimes that might result in
prison time. At the August hearing, Superior Court Judge Earl B. Richards III in Bridgeport,  Connecticut , said if he avoided
arrest for a year, the prosecution would be suspended.  Jack had been arrested in June after he allegedly tried to
pass forged prescriptions for 12 pills of the painkiller
Oxycontin and nine of Ritalin, a drug used to treat attention
deficit disorder, according to Fairfield police. Jack had
received treatment for cancer, had had a valid prescription in
the past and had no prior criminal record, his attorney, Robert
G. Golger, said in court in August.  Golger didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the latest arrest.  Five Years  In the earlier incident, Jack was charged with second-
degree forgery and attempting to obtain a controlled substance
through forgery or alteration of a prescription or a written
order. Forgery, the more serious count, is punishable by as long
as five years in prison and a $5,000 fine.  Jack joined New York-based Lehman in 1984 and ran
 investment banking  from 1996 to 2002, when he became co-chief
operating officer with Joseph Gregory. In 2004, he was named to
the office of the chairman with the responsibility of overseeing
all of the firm’s investment banking relationships.  He decided to retire from New York-based Lehman to pursue
work in the nonprofit sector and spend time with his family,
Richard Fuld, Lehman’s chief executive officer at the time, said
in June 2005. The company went bankrupt in September 2008.  The latest arrest was reported earlier in the Westport
News.  The earlier case is Connecticut v. Jack, F02B-CR11-0258280-
S, Connecticut Superior Court, Fairfield County (Bridgeport).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in  Brooklyn ,  New York , federal court at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 