-- Fed Will Test Capital of 19 Large Banks Against U.S. Recession Scenario
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-03-12T22:06:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/federal-reserve-to-test-19-banks-capital-against-u-s-recession-scenario.html
The  Federal Reserve  will show how
the capital of 19 U.S. banks might fare through a deep recession
and a second housing crisis when they unveil stress-test results
in three days.  The tests will show results for revenues, capital ratios
and profits or losses at each firm over a nine-quarter period,
the Fed said in a paper released today in Washington. The
results will be released at 4:30 p.m. on March 15. Templates
included in the Fed release today showed an array of categories
it plans to disclose, from trading and counterparty losses to
credit cards and first-lien mortgages.  “Strong capital levels are critical to ensuring that
banking organizations have the ability to lend and to continue
to meet their financial obligations, even in times of economic
difficulty,” the Fed said in a statement. “The supervisory
stress scenario is not the Federal Reserve’s forecast for the
economy, but was designed to represent an outcome that, while
unlikely, may occur if the U.S economy were to experience a deep
recession at the same time that economic activity in other major
economies contracted significantly.”  The KBW Bank Index of 24 U.S. lenders has advanced 15
percent this year as investors bet a strengthening economy will
help firms boost earnings. Concern that the nation’s banks may
be damaged by  Europe ’s debt crisis helped drive down the index
25 percent in 2011, its worst annual performance since the 2008
credit crisis.  Lehman Brothers Collapse  Stress tests date back to 2009, when supervisors tried to
determine the extent of losses facing the nation’s largest
lenders following the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH) 
and the subsequent financial crisis. Gross domestic product
contracted at an 8.9 annual rate in the fourth quarter of 2008.  For the current test, the Fed provided the banks with 25
variables, including estimates on gross domestic product,
Treasury bill rates and indexes of consumer prices and  home
prices . The more severe scenario assumes an 8 percent drop in
U.S. gross domestic product, an  unemployment rate  as high as 13
percent and a 21 percent drop in home prices.  Six banking-holding companies with large trading, private
equity and derivatives activities were also subjected to tests
of these positions from a “global market shock,” the Fed said.
The six banks are  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Wells
Fargo & Co., Morgan Stanley,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   The Fed said it estimated revenue and losses under the
stress scenario based on detailed data provided by the firms and
verified by supervisors. The Fed said the tests draw on the
expertise “of hundreds of staff,” including supervisors,
economists, and market analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in  Washington  at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net  