-- Florida Sues U.S. Seeking Approval of New Electoral Maps
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-03-12T21:57:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/florida-sues-u-s-seeking-approval-of-new-electoral-maps-1-.html
Florida sued the U.S.  Justice
Department  seeking approval of electoral maps drafted after
 population growth  gave the state two more seats in the U.S.
House of Representatives.  Florida, in a lawsuit filed today in federal court in
Washington, said the maps drawn by its Republican-controlled
Legislature for congressional and state assembly districts don’t
diminish the ability of minority voters to elect candidates of
their choice, as prohibited by the Voting Rights Act.  “The congressional plan passed the Senate with all three
Hispanic senators and three of six black senators voting in
favor of the plan, and passed the House with the support of nine
Hispanic representatives,” according to the filing by Mike Haridopolos, president of the  Florida  Senate, and Dean Cannon,
speaker of the Florida House of Representatives.  All states with a history of voting rights violations must
obtain pre-clearance from either the Justice Department or the
federal court in Washington before they can use new maps.
Florida, which has five counties covered by the voting rights
law, asked the court to assign the case to a three-judge panel.  Today’s filing seeks a decision before the state’s
candidate-qualifying period, which begins June 4. Florida’s
primary elections for the state and congressional seats are
scheduled for Aug. 14.  Constitutional Authority  Florida said that if the court declines to approve the maps
it will seek a ruling that 2006 amendments to Section 5 of the
Voting Rights Act “impermissibly exceeds Congress’s
constitutional authority.”  The redistricting plans covers 120 state districts and 27
congressional seats, according to the lawsuit.  Xochitl Hinojosa, a Justice Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment on the filing.  A three-judge panel in  Washington  is considering whether
redistricting plans for the state of  Texas  comply with the
Voting Rights Act. Texas’s primary elections, which have been
delayed twice due to redistricting challenges, is scheduled for
May 29.  The case is  State of Florida  v. U.S., 12-00380,  U.S.
District Court (1100L) ,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 