-- Gasoline Falls on Concern Lower Chinese Exports May Cut Fuel Use
-- B y   B a r b a r a   J .   P o w e l l
-- 2012-03-12T19:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/gasoline-falls-on-concern-lower-chinese-exports-may-cut-fuel-use.html
Gasoline fell for the first time in
four days on concern that fuel demand will decline after  China ’s
exports grew less than estimated.  Prices sank as China’s growth slowed the first two months
of this year, with exports and domestic demand moderating faster
than analysts had forecast. Futures also declined on speculation
that U.S. motor-fuel consumption may be curbed by pump prices
that are 6.9 percent higher than a year ago, according to data
from Heathrow, Florida-based AAA.  “There’s growing fear the Chinese economy may begin to
slow, which could impact global oil demand,” said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston. “And there’s
concern that high prices are going to dampen demand worldwide.”  Gasoline for April delivery declined 0.94 cent, or 0.3
percent, to settle at $3.323 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices have gained 24 percent this year, making the
motor fuel the best performer in Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of
24 commodities.  The  GSCI (SPGSCI)  fell 0.4 percent at 3:05 p.m. today in  New York .
Crude oil for April delivery declined $1.06, or 1 percent, to
settle at $106.34 a barrel on the Nymex.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, had the biggest
trade  deficit  last month in at least 22 years, the weakest
January-February factory-production gain since 2009 and retail
sales below the median economist estimate, government data
showed March 9 and 10.  “It’s no longer a matter of is China slowing down but how
fast is it slowing down,” said  James Cordier , portfolio manager
at OptionSellers.com in Tampa, Florida.  Gasoline Consumption  In the U.S.,  gasoline consumption  slipped 1.2 percent in
the week ended March 2, and the amount of the fuel supplied over
the prior four weeks was 7.8 percent below a year earlier,
Energy Department data show. Total fuel use over the four weeks
ended March 2 was 6.1 percent lower than in 2011.  Futures also fell as concern eased that  Iran’s nuclear
program  would lead to a disruption of oil supplies. Israeli
Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said on March 9 that it is
still conceivable that international sanctions and diplomacy
will stop Iran from developing nuclear weapons.  “ China’s economy  has been in the back of everybody’s mind
and the situation with  Iran  has cooled off,” said Fred
Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options Inc. in New York.  April-delivery heating oil slipped 2.09 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $3.2429 a gallon on the exchange. Prices
have gained 10 percent in 2012.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.9
cent to $3.801 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. Prices
have gained 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  