-- Genetic Tests to Generate $25 Billion a Year, UnitedHealth Says
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-03-12T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/genetic-tests-to-generate-25-billion-a-year-unitedhealth-says.html
Genetic tests may become a $25
billion annual market in the U.S. within a decade, highlighting
the need to identify which exams work the best, insurer
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  said.  A majority of the 1,800 DNA tests developed to identify or
manage medical conditions still haven’t been studied enough to
prove their effectiveness, UnitedHealth, the biggest U.S.
insurer by sales, said in a report today. The technology
generated $5 billion in 2010, the insurer said, and three to
five new tests are being introduced each month.  The projections bode well for diagnostics companies
including  Genomic Health Inc. (GHDX) ,  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN)  and  Life
Technologies Corp. (LIFE) , said Daniel Leonard, a Leerink Swann & Co.
analyst in New York. They also raise questions about the effect
on consumers, doctors and governments struggling with rising
medical bills, UnitedHealth said.  While genetic exams “hold great promise for better health
and medical care,” the Minnetonka, Minnesota-based insurer said
in the report. “They also pose significant challenges to a
system that is increasingly unaffordable.”  The paper, released to coincide with a Washington D.C.
 conference  on gene testing, calls for cheaper, quicker methods
to evaluate the quality of the technology, as well as better
education for consumers about privacy protections.  The report echoed concerns from a study last week in the
New England Journal of Medicine that found cancer screening may
be less useful than hoped because of the wide variety of
mutations found in tumors. That may explain why some oncology
drugs become less effective even when targeted at specific
genes, scientists from the U.K. said.  Cancer, Alzheimer’s  Genetic tests can be used to identify cancers, judge a
person’s predisposition to Alzheimer’s disease or gauge how well
a particular medicine will work in a specific patient.  UnitedHealth, which covers 36 million people in its medical
plans, spent about $500 million for genetic exams and molecular
diagnostics in 2010, mostly to detect cancers and infectious
diseases like HIV, today’s report said.  The national figure may swell to $15 billion to $25 billion
in 2021, with annual growth rates of more than 10 percent, the
company said. It based the projections on internal claims and
government Medicare and Medicaid data. The ultimate number
depends on how popular the tests grow, how expensive they get
and insurers’ willingness to pay, among other factors.  Illumina (ILMN)  Bid  The predictions seem “reasonable” given the field’s past
growth, said Leerink Swann’s Leonard, in a telephone interview.
Illumina Inc., a San Diego-based gene mapper, drew a $5.7
billion hostile takeover bid from  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  in January,
in a sign of the market’s attractiveness, Leonard said. Two
years ago,  General Electric Co. (GE)  paid $580 million for diagnostic
company Clarient Inc.  Industry leaders include Life Technologies, of Carlsbad,
 California ; Myriad, of  Salt Lake City ; and Genomic Health, of
 Redwood City , California, Leonard said.  “It’s going to be a very good place for investors to
participate” given “the broad need to reduce health care
costs,” Leonard said. “If you use these tests, you could
forego expensive and toxic therapies or forego surgery.”  For older, relatively simple scans like those for newborn
screening or infectious disease, there’s usually evidence of
what UnitedHealth called “clinical utility” -- an improvement
in the delivery or outcome of patient care.  For most tests, that’s not the case, often because of the
high cost of evaluating products or the newness of a particular
exam. The Food and Drug Administration could help by allowing
more flexible clinical trial designs, while insurers could offer
incentives by tying payments to the amount of data backing a
test, UnitedHealth said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  