-- Germany Said to Start $2.3 Billion Property Sale Next Month
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-03-13T08:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/germany-said-to-start-2-3-billion-sale-of-real-estate-company-next-month.html
The German government may start the
sale of its real-estate management company as early as next
month, aiming to raise more than 1.76 billion euros ($2.3
billion) to reduce its deficit, according to three people
familiar with the plan.  Barclays Plc’s investment bank will handle the sale of TLG
Immobilien GmbH, the company that replaced Treuhand
Gesellschaft, said two of the people, who declined to be
identified because the timetable hasn’t been made public. TLG,
which owns homes, office buildings, hotels and retirement homes
in eastern  Germany , may attract property companies, private-
equity firms, insurers and infrastructure funds, two of the
people said.  The government is trying to take advantage of a pick-up in
real-estate transactions in Germany, with this year’s deal
volume of 1.45 billion euros already half the total for all of
2011, according to Bloomberg data.  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has
slated federal sales of 5.1 billion euros in her 2012 budget
that include TLG, Duisburg’s harbor and holdings tied to the
European Recovery Program investment fund as she strives to
narrow the deficit.  “Real estate in Germany is considered a safe asset for
investors and the current market provides a good window for
sales because of cheap financing,” said Frank Neumann, an
analyst at Bankhaus Lampe in Bielefeld. “The likeliest buyers
for property assets being sold by the government and state-owned
lenders are real-estate firms because private equity risks a
public backlash.”  Profitable Business  Following Germany’s reunification in 1990, Treuhand
Gesellschaft oversaw the sale and restructuring of thousands of
companies in the country’s six eastern states. TLG, which is
based in Berlin, has since 2000 managed the property assets
mainly on the Baltic Sea coast and in Berlin, Halle and Leipzig,
and in 2010  reported  net income of about 20 million euros.  The  Finance Ministry  in July  said  it will revive a plan to
sell TLG and the company will be split into two parts: TLG
Immobilien that contains commercial property such as offices and
hotels, and TLG Wohnen that includes the residential properties,
to attract more bidders.  A group including  Patrizia Immobilien AG (P1Z)  agreed in February
to buy Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg’s real-estate unit for 1.4
billion euros and  Bayerische Landesbank  is selling its property
business after taxpayer bailouts for the two state-owned lenders
during the financial crisis. BayernLB’s DKB unit is also selling
its property holdings and German real-estate investor TAG
Immobilien AG offered to buy the assets on Feb. 29.  Bailout Fund  Merkel’s government is counting on asset sales amid risks
to her plan to narrow the deficit. Her government has already
decided to re-open the budget later this year to speed up
payments into  Europe ’s permanent bailout fund.  “Fortunately the market situation is favorable, but the
pressure is there to sell this year,” said Priska Hinz, the
opposition  Green Party ’s spokeswoman for the budget in the
Berlin parliament. Any TLG buyer or buyers must sign a social
charter for tenants as a condition of purchasing the company,
Hinz said.  TLG’s value was estimated at about 1.76 billion euros in
2010. German law bars the sale of federal assets for less than
the market price.  The company’s sale was initially planned for 2008 and was
shelved in November of that year because of the global
recession. Spokesmen for TLG and the finance ministry declined
to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in  Frankfurt  at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 