-- Gillard’s Labor Party Sinks in Poll as Mining Tax Vote Looms
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-03-13T06:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/gillard-s-labor-party-sinks-in-poll-as-australia-s-mining-tax-vote-looms.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s  Labor party  sank to a six-week low in an opinion poll
as the government, trying to recover from a leadership fight,
seeks to pass into law an unprecedented tax on mining profits.  Labor’s 31 percent trails opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s
coalition by 12 percentage points, compared with a 10-point
margin in the previous survey, according to a Newspoll published
in today’s Australian newspaper. Gillard received a personal
boost, rising to a two-percentage-point lead as preferred prime
minister over Abbott, from two points behind.  After fending off a leadership challenge by predecessor
 Kevin Rudd  last month, the nation’s first female prime minister
must galvanize her party as it returns to Canberra for a two-
week sitting. Gillard’s minority government needs the backing of
independent and  Green party  lawmakers to pass legislation before
elections that must be held by the end of 2013.  “The leadership challenge was always going to damage the
government in the opinion polls over the short term,” said
Norman Abjorensen, a political analyst at  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “Labor will need to pick up ground
going into the middle of the year to have any real chance at
winning the next election.”  Gillard’s government intends to push the mining tax bill
through the upper house so it can take effect July 1.  Rudd’s Ouster  Rudd, who was ousted as prime minister in a June 2010 party
coup by Gillard, 50, stepped down as foreign minister on Feb. 22
to challenge her for the nation’s top job. He was defeated 71 to
31 in a Feb. 27 party ballot.  Rudd’s replacement as foreign minister, former New South
Wales Premier Bob Carr, 64, took his place in the Federal Senate
today after being sworn in to his new Cabinet role.  “I’ve got a lot to learn,” Carr told reporters in
Canberra today. “I’m bound to make mistakes. It’s a big step to
go from the New South Wales Parliament to the Parliament of the
Commonwealth.”  Support for Labor dropped four points in today’s Newspoll
survey, while Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition dropped two
points to 43 percent. The survey of 1,153 people, conducted
March 9-11, asked respondents to choose among four choices --
Labor, Abbott’s coalition, Greens and others. The poll had a
margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.  The result was Labor’s worst since a Jan. 27-29 poll, when
it received support of 30 percent.  Two Party Basis  On a two-party preferred basis, seen as the most accurate
gauge of potential election outcomes, the coalition remained six
percentage points in front of Labor, unchanged from the previous
poll conducted Feb. 23-26. Labor lost its majority in the August
2010 national election, the closest in 70 years, forcing it to
rely on the support of non-party lawmakers.  Labor’s 30 percent tax on  iron ore  and coal profits is
expected to be submitted this week for final approval in the
Senate, where the Green party holds the balance of power.  The government is also assembling a national disability-
insurance program and plans legislation for the rollout of a
A$36 billion ($37.9 billion) government-owned high speed
Internet network.  Parliament goes on hiatus from March 22 and resumes May 8,
when the government will announce its annual budget that it says
will return to surplus. Under laws already passed, the
government will put a tax on  carbon emissions  from July 1 by
charging about 500 polluters A$23 a ton for discharges until the
set price gives way to a cap-and-trade system in 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  