-- Glencore Said to Express Interest in Buying Canadian Grain-Handler Viterra
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-03-12T20:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/glencore-said-to-express-interest-in-buying-canadian-grain-handler-viterra.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) , the
largest publicly traded commodities supplier, has expressed an
interest in acquiring  Canada ’s biggest grain handler  Viterra
Inc. (VT) , according to a person familiar with the situation.  Other companies may also be studying Viterra, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the details
haven’t been made public. Closely held grain distributor Cargill
Inc. has expressed an interest, the Wall Street Journal
reported, citing people it didn’t identify. Viterra has gained
30 percent since saying last week it had received approaches,
giving it a market value of C$5.37 billion ($5.41 billion).  Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg is looking
to expand his North American grain business even as he pursues a
22.5 billion pound ($35.2 billion) takeover of Swiss metals and
coal producer Xstrata Plc. U.S. agricultural trading companies
 Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and Archer Daniels Midland Co. also may make
approaches for Viterra, according to Aston Hill Financial Inc.,
an investor in the Canadian company.  “A bidding war for Viterra could emerge and a large price
will need to be paid,”  Belinda Moore , a Brisbane-based analyst
with RBS Morgans Ltd., said today in a report.  Viterra advanced 6.4 percent to close at C$14.45 in
Toronto. Glencore gained 0.7 percent to 411.35 pence in London.  Largest Share  Holly Gibney, a spokeswoman for Regina, Saskatchewan-based
Viterra, declined to comment, referring back to a statement on
March 9 in which the company said it had received expressions of
interest. A spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore, and
 Lisa Clemens , at Cargill, wouldn’t comment. Glencore’s interest
in Viterra was reported earlier by the Sunday Telegraph.  Buying Viterra would give Glencore the largest share of the
Canadian grain-handling market just as the Canadian Wheat
Board’s monopoly in wheat and barley grown in the west of the
country ends. The acquisition may add C$175 million in profit,
or 3 percent of Glencore’s net income for 2013 based on current
forecasts, BMO Capital Markets analyst  Tony Robson  said today.  Viterra’s share  of Canadian grain-handling may expand to
almost 50 percent in the next few years from 45 percent, Chief
Executive Officer Mayo Schmidt said in an interview on March 8.  “This mooted acquisition has credibility,” Dominic O’Kane
and Ash Lazenby, analysts at Liberum Capital Ltd. in  London ,
said in a note. “The timing looks attractive given that the
Canadian Wheat Board’s monopoly over wheat and barley is about
to terminate.”  Monopoly Ends  The Canadian government passed a law in December that will
end the monopoly and give farmers the choice to sell to other
buyers as of Aug. 1. Viterra said in January it expects to
increase grain volumes and earnings after the board’s control of
supplies ends. Glencore is also among companies interested in
closely held U.S. grain handler Gavilon Group LLC, people
familiar with the matter said March 6.  “Investors would be pleased to see they’re not missing
opportunities despite the larger merger,” London-based Fairfax
IS analyst  John Meyer  said yesterday. “If Xstrata doesn’t
happen, they’re getting on with growing the business anyway.”  “We said at the time of the IPO we would like to increase
the scale of our grain business in  North America ,” Glasenberg
said in a March 5 interview, referring to Glencore’s $10 billion
initial public offering last May. “We’ll definitely look at
opportunities in North America, whether Gavilon or others; we
will look at everything that’s available opportunistically.”  Cotton Loss  Glencore’s 2011 adjusted earnings before interest and tax
from agricultural trading swung to an $8 million loss from a
$659 million profit a year earlier. The company had a “one-
off” cotton-trading loss, Glasenberg said March 5. Adjusted
profit from trading metals and minerals was $1.24 billion last
year, while energy trading’s earnings were $697 million.  Buying Viterra might help Glencore’s agricultural business
return to profit after a “difficult year,” Fairfax’s Meyer
said. Moving into storage of wheat and other logistics beyond
just trading grains would probably help boost margins, he said.
An acquisition would boost sales in Glencore’s agriculture unit
by 64 percent and more than triple earnings before interest and
tax to $937 million, according to BMO’s Robson.  “Viterra has three business segments -- grain handling and
marketing, agri-products and processing,” RBS Morgan’s Moore
said. “We would question whether Glencore would want the entire
business.”  Bunge, ADM  Canadian agricultural supplier  Agrium Inc. (AGU)  may bid for
Viterra,  John Hughes , a Desjardins Securities Inc. analyst in
Toronto, said March 9. U.S. agricultural traders and processors
Cargill, Bunge and ADM may be interested, said Andrew L.B. Hamlin, a  money manager  at Aston Hill Financial overseeing about
C$5.5 billion of assets including Viterra shares in Toronto.  Susan Burns , a Bunge spokeswoman, David Weintraub, an ADM
spokesman, and Todd Coakwell, an Agrium spokesman, all declined
to comment on March 9.  North American food and agriculture companies have fetched
a 31 percent premium on average in takeovers greater than $1
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Using Viterra’s March
9 closing price, that would imply an offer for C$14.38 a share.
Based on the median 10 times multiple of earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization paid in comparable
deals, Viterra may command about C$17 a share, the data show.  As well as being a target for a potential acquisition,
Viterra has expressed an interest in Gavilon, as have  Japan ’s
Mitsui & Co. and Singapore-based Wilmar International Ltd.
people familiar with the matter said March 6.  Potash Bid  Viterra is based in the same province as  Potash Corp. (POT)  of
Saskatchewan Inc., which in 2010 fended off a $40 billion
hostile bid from  Australia ’s BHP Billiton Ltd. The Canadian
government blocked BHP’s offer, saying the sale of the world’s
largest fertilizer company wouldn’t provide a “net benefit” to
the country.  Under foreign-takeover legislation known as the Investment
Canada Act, acquisitions of companies with assets worth more
than C$312 million are reviewed by the federal government to
decide whether the transaction is beneficial to the nation.  The federal government should block any foreign takeover of
Viterra under that law, Pat Martin, a New Democratic Party
lawmaker, said by telephone on March 9. Richard Walker, a
spokesman for  Industry Canada , referred requests for comment to
colleagues at Canada’s agriculture ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  