-- Goldman Buoyed by Credit Rally Seen Leading Bank Trading Gains
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-03-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/goldman-buoyed-by-credit-rally-seen-leading-bank-gains-after-2011-losses.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are among investment banks that stand to
benefit from the biggest first-quarter credit rally in more than
15 years, as bond prices rise and some competitors pull back.  Volumes have jumped more than 33 percent from last quarter
and spreads on high-yield bonds fell more than 1 percent. That
could help Goldman Sachs the most as it is “geared” toward
credit trading in its fixed-income business,  Kian Abouhossein , a
JPMorgan analyst in  London , wrote in a Feb. 22 note to clients.  The rebound may provide relief after investment banks
posted more than $3 billion of losses from credit trading in the
second half of 2011 as spreads widened and volumes plunged amid
Europe’s debt crisis. The  European Central Bank ’s unlimited
three-year loans to banks have eased anxiety about a global
slowdown, and increased debt issuance has boosted trading.  “The Street is naturally long credit and tends to perform
very well in an environment where credit spreads are
narrowing,” said Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. in  New York  who rates shares of Goldman Sachs and  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  outperform, meaning he predicts the stocks’ returns will
exceed the average among peers. “If the  U.S. economy  continues
to move ahead and Europe continues to kick the can down the
road, then credit spreads narrow.”  Bond Spreads  Spreads between global company bonds and comparable
government debt contracted 58 basis points in the first two
months of the year to 209 basis points, or 2.09 percentage
points, according to  Bank of America  Merrill Lynch’s Global
Broad Market Corporate Index. That’s the biggest decline to
start a year since the index began on Dec. 31, 1996.  U.S. high-yield bond spreads narrowed 1.39 percentage
points to 5.98 percent, according to Merrill Lynch’s U.S. High
Yield Master II Index. Spreads narrow when prices of corporate
bonds rise relative to government debt. That often leads to
gains in bonds that banks hold as trading inventory.  Credit trading typically includes investment-grade and
high-yield corporate bonds, distressed debt, leveraged loans,
credit-default swaps and collateralized debt obligations. Many
banks also include trading in mortgage-backed and other asset-
backed securities in the credit category. Fixed-income trading
accounts for about 16 percent of total revenue for the five
largest Wall Street banks.  Trading Volume  The average daily trading volume for investment-grade
corporate bonds this year through March 6 jumped 39 percent from
the fourth quarter to $14.1 billion and is more than 2011’s
first quarter, according to  Richard Ramsden , a Goldman Sachs
analyst. Mortgage-backed-securities volume rose 36 percent from
the year-earlier quarter and 20 percent from the last three
months of 2011, he wrote in a note last week.  Average daily trading volume of high-yield bonds jumped to
$5.6 billion through March 8, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
That’s up from an average of $5.37 billion in the same period
last year and $3.47 billion in the fourth quarter.  Trading volumes also have benefited from increased debt
issuance. Corporate-bond underwriting in the U.S. may have its
best quarter since at least 2002: Companies sold $355.5 billion
of bonds through the end of last week, 53 percent more than in
the entire fourth quarter of last year.  Assuming the pace holds through March, the amount would
surpass the record of $419.1 billion sold in the first quarter
of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. JPMorgan
is the biggest underwriter, with a 12 percent market share.
Among the top 10 underwriters, Zurich-based  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  Group
AG gained the most in share, while Morgan Stanley lost the most.  Competitors Exit  The increased trading may be helping fewer banks because
competitors are exiting some businesses, Goldman Sachs Chief
Financial Officer David Viniar, 56, said at an investor
conference last month. The bank is seeing wider bid-ask spreads
and more “rational” pricing, he said.  Michael DuVally , a
spokesman for the firm, declined to comment further.  UBS AG is shrinking its U.S. credit-flow unit and will no
longer trade complex structured fixed-income products, the
Zurich-based bank said in November. Credit Suisse has said it
wants to cut risk-weighted assets in fixed income by 50 percent,
which includes “evolving” its credit-products business.  Royal
Bank of Scotland Plc , based in Edinburgh, said it’s disposing of
some structured credit assets.  ‘Stronger Players’  “Capacity is clearly coming out of the markets,”  Colm Kelleher , 54, who oversees Morgan Stanley’s trading business,
said at an industry conference last week.  The number of major players has dropped from 14 in 2006 to
about half that today, and smaller banks in Europe are exiting
the market, Kelleher said.  JPMorgan had the highest share of clients in U.S. credit
trading in the first half of 2011, followed by  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Morgan Stanley,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Goldman Sachs, according to a Greenwich
Associates survey of institutional investors released in July.  Banks with strong balance sheets and established franchises
such as JPMorgan and Goldman Sachs, both based in New York, may
gain from the drop-off in competition, said Richard Staite, an
analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP in London.  “It was hard to see who was picking up market share in
what was a very weak market at the end of last year, but once
you get a pickup in activity, that’s more likely to go to the
stronger players, and at that point you’ll see who’s really
gaining market share,” Staite said.  ECB Lending  The rally came as  Greece  reached its participation target
in the biggest sovereign-debt restructuring in history, the U.S.
unemployment rate fell and the ECB expanded lending.  More than 800 banks borrowed more than 1 trillion euros
($1.3 trillion) from the ECB’s Long-Term Refinancing Operation
in December and February. The central bank’s president,  Mario Draghi , said the two tranches of three-year loans have had “a
powerful effect” and have been an “unquestionable success” in
unlocking credit markets.  The credit rally is still fragile and could reverse,
analysts including Staite said. Credit spreads widened last week
after the European Union’s statistics office said the region’s
economy shrank 0.3 percent last quarter and the central bank’s
balance sheet surged to a record 3.02 trillion euros amid
crisis-fighting efforts.  ‘Jury’s Still Out’  Even with the improving environment, total fixed-income
trading likely will be down 13 percent from the first quarter of
2011, Abouhossein said.  “There’s still ongoing debate as to whether the downturn
in trading revenue is a secular or cyclical event, and the
jury’s still out on that,” Staite said. “This is a bounce off
very low levels, but the question is whether we return to the
levels we saw in 2009 and 2010.”  The 10 largest global investment banks reported more than
$3 billion of losses from credit trading in the second half of
last year, according to industry consultant  Coalition Ltd.  That
brought credit-trading revenue at the firms in 2011 to about $6
billion, down from $18 billion in 2010 and $29 billion in 2009,
according to Coalition data.  Goldman Sachs’s revenue from market-making and other
principal transactions in credit products fell $5.96 billion in
2011 to $2.72 billion. The firm said it faced challenges in the
fourth quarter because prices between derivatives and underlying
securities diverged, affecting its hedging of positions.  BofA, JPMorgan  Trading-account profits tied to credit risk at Bank of
America fell $3.51 billion from 2010, according to the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank. That represented 88
percent of the lender’s drop in fixed-income trading revenue.
JPMorgan’s principal transactions tied to credit risk fell $1.15
billion in 2011. The banks’ figures were disclosed in annual
regulatory filings and may not be comparable.  UBS had a loss of $156 million in credit trading in the
third quarter. Credit Suisse said markdowns on investment-grade
European positions led its credit business to a loss in the
fourth quarter. Royal Bank of  Scotland  earned 9 million pounds
($14 million) in the fourth quarter from credit and asset-backed
markets, a 98 percent plunge from a year earlier.  Those declines and losses have made banks wary of piling
back into corporate bonds, according to analysts including
Bernstein’s Hintz. Inventory holdings of corporate bonds by the
top dealers this quarter are about half the level of a year ago
and less than 20 percent of the 2007 peak, Bloomberg data show.  “The natural response of the risk managers will be to take
credit bets, but to be much more cautious in terms of the size
of the bets,” Hintz said. “If  Europe  in any way spins out of
control, credit is the first sector that’s going to get hurt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  