-- Goldman Names Gmelich Head of Credit Trading, Verschleiser Mortgage Head
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-12T20:51:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/goldman-names-gmelich-head-of-credit-trading-verschleiser-mortgage-head.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, named Justin Gmelich global
head of credit trading as part of management changes in the wake
of high-level departures.  Jeffrey L. Verschleiser will become global head of mortgage
trading, according to an internal memo obtained by Bloomberg
News. Gmelich and Verschleiser fill roles that were held by
Donald R. Mullen until his departure earlier this year.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for the New York-based firm, confirmed the
memo’s contents.  Paul Russo, Michael Daffey, and R. Martin Chavez were named
co-chief operating officers of the equities division, according
to the memo.  The promotions follow the departure earlier this year of
David B. Heller, who was the securities division chief with the
most experience in equities trading. Enrico Gaglioti was named
global head of equities sales, and John Willian will be global
head of securities services, futures, and clearing, according to
the memo.  Ashok Varadhan, who was recently named to the firm’s
management committee, will become global head of macro trading,
encompassing currencies, interest-rate products and fixed-
income, currencies and commodities for  emerging markets ,
according to the memo. Kostas Pantazopoulos, who oversees global
interest-rate products trading, will take on oversight of macro
trading in  Asia  outside  Japan , according to the memo.  Sundaram, Burgin  Ram Sundaram, global head of principal funding and
investment, also will manage fixed-income, currencies and
commodities trading in  Latin America . Nick Burgin was named
global head of foreign exchange trading for group of 10 nations,
according to the memo. Those promotions follow the departure in
January of Edward K. Eisler, who had been a co-head of the
securities division with Heller.  Thomas Cornacchia will become head of sales for fixed-
income, currencies and commodities in the Americas, according to
the memo.  The memo was signed by Isabelle Ealet, Pablo J. Salame and
Harvey M. Schwartz, the three co-heads of the securities
division that accounts for most of Goldman Sachs’s revenue.  Dow Jones reported on the changes earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 