-- Goldman Sachs to Hold First Board Meeting in India This Month
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-03-12T19:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/goldman-sachs-to-hold-first-board-meeting-in-india-this-month.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
fifth-largest U.S. bank by assets, will hold a meeting of its
board in  India  for the first time as it completes a series of
trips to key developing markets.  The  12-member board , which typically holds a meeting every
year outside the U.S., will travel to  New Delhi  and Mumbai this
month, said Edward Naylor, a spokesman for the New York-based
bank. Directors have previously convened in China, Russia, the
Middle East and Brazil.  Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, who is also
chairman of the board, has made expansion in fast-growing
markets like Brazil, Russia, India and China -- the so-called
BRIC countries -- a priority. Goldman Sachs is hiring fastest in
China, India and Brazil, Chief Operating Officer Gary D. Cohn,
who is also a board member, said at a presentation to investors
last year.  India native Lakshmi Mittal, the 61-year-old chairman and
CEO of steel company  ArcelorMittal (MT) , has served on the Goldman
Sachs board since 2008. He is the world’s 18th-richest person,
with a fortune worth $22.8 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index.  Goldman Sachs lost money in Asia last year for the first
time since 2008 because of markdowns on the firm’s stock
investments in the region, especially a $517 million pretax loss
on the value of its stake in  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. , the firm disclosed in a filing earlier this month.  The Times of India  reported  Goldman Sachs’s plans to hold a
board meeting in the country earlier today, citing Sonjoy Chatterjee, chairman and co-CEO of Goldman Sachs India.
Chatterjee, who joined Goldman Sachs from  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , was
named to his current role a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 