-- Guinness Nigeria Climbs to 10-Week High on Valuation Bets
-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 2012-03-12T15:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/guinness-nigeria-climbs-to-10-week-high-on-valuation-bets.html
Guinness Nigeria Plc (GN) , the country’s
second-biggest beer-maker, climbed to the highest this year as
investors took advantage of its price-to-earnings ratio compared
with that of  Nigerian Breweries Plc (NB) ,  Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc (IBTCCB)  said.  The stock rose 5 percent to 241.50 naira by the 2:30 p.m.
close in Lagos, the commercial capital, its highest level since
Dec. 30.  “This is as we have been expecting, as investors are
taking advantage of the arbitrage and trading down on Nigerian
Breweries and going into Guinness,” Esili Eigbe, Lagos-based
analyst at Stanbic IBTC, said by phone today. The historical
disparity between the one-year forward price-to-earnings ratio
of the two stocks is 15 percent, but last week, Guinness traded
at a discount of about 35 percent to Nigerian Breweries, Eigbe
said. The rise in the price of Guinness is expected to continue
until this disparity is reduced to its historical level, he
said.  Nigerian beer output is expected to grow 10 percent in
2012, driven by rising income levels and prices, Stanbic IBTC
said in a research note e-mailed to clients on Jan. 18.  Nigeria ,
with more than 164 million people, is the continent’s most
populous country and is attracting investment from global beer-
makers seeking to expand market share. Nigerian Breweries, the
country’s biggest beer-maker by market value, last year acquired
Sona Systems Associates Business Management Ltd. and Life
Breweries Co., to expand its capacity and extend its brands.
 Guinness (GN)  Nigeria, a unit of distiller  Diageo Plc (DGE) , said on March
11 that it will spend $336 million to expand brewing capacity in
the country.  Nigerian Breweries Plc was unchanged at 98 naira by 2:30
p.m. in Lagos. The stock has risen 3.8 percent this year, while
Guinness has fallen by 3.4 percent, compared with an increase of
1.7 percent in the Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index over
the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  