-- Iceland’s One-Time Billionaire Plots Retail Comeback on U.K. High Street
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-03-12T12:47:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/iceland-s-one-time-billionaire-plots-retail-comeback-on-u-k-high-street.html
Jon Asgeir Johannesson, the former
Icelandic billionaire being sued by the bank that helped fund
his expansion into the U.K., is planning to build a new retail
“kingdom” there once he emerges from litigation.  “I’m still interested in business and have plans to
continue doing business,” Johannesson, 44, said in an interview
in Reykjavik. “I’m no longer interested in building any kind of
empire again. It interests me more to own a little kingdom and
manage it properly. I’m interested in the markets in Britain and
the U.S., and the markets that extend from those.”  Johannesson, whose personal fortune grew to $1.6 billion a
year before Iceland’s 2008 meltdown, according to the
Frettabladid newspaper he owned, says a lawsuit against him
brought by  Glitnir Bank hf  is based on “fiction” and likely to
be dismissed. That will free him to pursue his next retail
venture, and this time he won’t let things run out of control,
he said.  “You can revel in past mistakes forever, but if you get
stuck in the rear-view mirror, you’ll lose your creativity,”
said Johannesson. “I’m 44 years old, full of energy and ideas,
which will be useful in the second half.”  Boom-to-Bust  Johannesson’s fate has tracked the boom-to-bust trajectory
of  Iceland’s economy . His empire was built on funds borrowed
from Glitnir, in which he was the largest shareholder. He
epitomized the Icelandic entrepreneur of the 1990s and 2000s, as
the island moved away from its reliance on fishing and tourism
and became dominated by high finance.  When his fortune was at its peak, Johannesson owned a pin-
striped private jet, luxury apartments in  New York City  and
 London , and a 50-meter private yacht.  “We were doing business with people that were doing the
same thing in their own countries, where they enjoyed a high
standard of living,” he said. “I wasn’t paying too much
attention to what was going on in a small society like Iceland;
I overlooked that what I was doing might be considered
extravagant for the average Joe in Reykjavik.”  Since Johannesson’s empire collapsed in 2008, his fortune
has shrunk to about $2 million, he estimates. He earns his
living by doing consulting work for companies in the U.K., he
said, without elaborating.  ‘On My Own’  “The plan is to get going on my own,” Johannesson said.
His next enterprise will respond to the “rapidly changing”
retail landscape. “The Internet has changed everything and will
continue to change the way consumers shop in the coming years.
Shopping centers are becoming less and less relevant,” he said.  In the U.K. in particular, shoppers are relying more on
Internet options, according to Johannesson. While he says brands
will still need high-street outlets to display their goods in
prime locations, the bulk of the industry’s trade will be in the
virtual sphere.  “There will be a complete revolution in this sector,” he
said. “In the U.K. people are saying that the high street is
suffering because of the recession. That’s not the case: the
high street is suffering because people’s shopping behavior is
changing.”  Johannesson’s career started more than two decades ago.
Together with his father Johannes Jonsson, he opened a chain of
Bonus supermarkets in Iceland in 1989. His entry on to the
British retail scene was financed through borrowing funds needed
to snap up a number of U.K. brands. Johannesson’s expansion into
that market included the acquisition of toy store  Hamleys Plc (HYL) 
and department store  House of Fraser Plc . Both have since been
sold.  Biggest Mistake  He says his biggest mistake was to continue expanding after
his purchase of  Big Food Group Ltd. (BFP)  in December 2004 for 326
million pounds ($510 million).  “When I look over my shoulder, it’s easy to say that I
should have stopped then,” Johannesson said. “If I’d done
that, I’d probably be one of the richest people in  Europe . Of
course I regret that, but you live and learn.”  Now, the liquidator of failed Baugur Group hf, the
 investment company  through which Johannesson made many of his
purchases, is also suing him. The group alleges he fraudulently
took out assets from the company before its collapse and placed
them in a private holding company owned by Johannesson’s family.  Johannesson isn’t only on the receiving end of lawsuits. He
sued former Justice Minister Bjorn Bjarnason for libel and won
the case before Reykjavik’s District Court.  No Excitement  The resolution committee of Glitnir, whose 2008 failure
burst the bubble Johannesson’s empire was built on, wants him
and five others to pay 6 billion kronur ($47 million) in damages
for loans it says were illegal.  “Calling our lawsuit ‘fiction’ is of course completely
unfounded,” Steinunn Gudbjartsdottir, the head of Glitnir’s
winding-up committee, said by phone today. The fact that an
Icelandic court upheld a freezing order on Johannesson’s assets
“should speak to the merits of our case,” she said.  Gudbjartsdottir estimates it may take as long as two years
before Glitnir’s case is “finally resolved,” she said.  The liquidators of Glitnir,  Kaupthing Bank hf  and
Landsbanki Islands hf are still trying to collect funds to help
repay some of the $85 billion the banks defaulted on in 2008.  Still, Iceland’s $12 billion economy is now recovering
faster than Europe and the U.S. Gross domestic product will
expand 2.5 percent this year, the  International Monetary Fund 
said March 2. That compares with a 0.3 percent contraction in
the 17-member euro area, the European Commission estimates. The
 U.S. economy  will grow 2.2 percent in 2012, the  World Bank  said
Jan. 18.  That’s not enough to persuade Johannesson to stay. He plans
to leave once he’s sorted out his legal affairs, he said.  “Iceland’s market doesn’t excite me,” he said. “I have
no intention of being here for long.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  