-- Iceland to Tighten Capital Controls for Failed Banks’ Creditors
-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 2012-03-12T20:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/iceland-to-tighten-capital-controls-for-failed-banks-creditors.html
Iceland’s government has introduced
a bill in parliament aimed at tightening the island’s  capital
controls  for creditors of  Kaupthing Bank hf ,  Glitnir Bank hf  and
 Landsbanki Islands hf  as part of a bid to maintain currency
stability.  The government asked the legislature to approve the bill
this evening. The proposed legislation would restrict capital
movements permitted until now in order to reduce the chances
damaging the government’s plan to remove controls over the
krona.  If approved, the law will prevent the liquidators of
Kaupthing, Glitnir and Landsbanki from paying the banks’
creditors in foreign currencies and will bar owners of Icelandic
bonds from transferring annuity and interest payments into
foreign currencies, which can then be transferred out of the
country.  “Instead of the authorizations that the winding-up
committees of the failed banks now have according to law, the
central bank would impose rules that would allow payments to
creditors which conform with stability,”  according to the bill 
posted on the Reykjavik-based parliament’s website. “In
addition to preventing the possible instability in the foreign-
exchange market, the changes to the foreign-exchange act
proposed in the bill will level the position of parties in
regards to the capital controls and prevent unnatural profits”
gained by circumventing the laws.  Iceland was forced to introduce capital controls and seek a
$4.6 billion bailout from the  International Monetary Fund  in
2008 after its biggest banks defaulted on $85 billion in debt,
sending the krona plunging as much as 80 percent against the
euro and driving the economy into a recession. The country ended
a 33-month program with the IMF in August.  Iceland’s $13 billion economy, which shrank 6.7 percent in
2009, grew 2.9 percent last year and will expand 2.4 percent
this year and next, the Paris-based  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development  estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  