-- Tiger Woods’s Masters Participation Is in Question After Achilles Injury
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-12T06:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/tiger-woods-s-masters-appearance-is-in-question-after-leg-injury.html
Tiger Woods’s participation in next
month’s  Masters Tournament  is in question after he withdrew from
the Cadillac Championship because of tightness in his left
Achilles tendon.  Woods said he’ll have the injury examined this week before
making a decision about his playing future. He’s next scheduled
to play at the  Arnold Palmer Invitational  in Orlando, Florida,
which begins March 22, two weeks before the April 5 start of the
 Masters , the first major championship of the golf season.  “I felt tightness in my left Achilles warming up,” Woods
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “It continued to get
progressively worse. After hitting my tee shot at 12, I decided
it was necessary to withdraw.”  Woods, 36, has had four operations during his career on his
left knee, most recently in 2008 when he had reconstructive
surgery to repair a torn anterior cruciate ligament. He missed
the  U.S. Open  and  British Open  last season after injuring his
left knee and Achilles tendon at the Masters.  “In the past, I may have tried to continue to play,”
Woods said in his statement. “This time I decided to do what I
thought was necessary.”  Woods, who was playing in his third straight event on the
tour, completed 11 holes of yesterday’s final round at the TPC
Blue Monster course at the Doral Golf Resort and Spa in Miami.
 Justin Rose  won the Cadillac Championship by one shot over Bubba Watson for his fourth title on the PGA Tour.  Masters Pick  Woods was listed last week as a 5-1 favorite by the Las
Vegas Hotel & Casino’s sportsbook to win the Masters. His odds
moved to 8-1 following yesterday’s injury and his quest for a
fifth title at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta,  Georgia ,
will likely depend on his recovery.  Woods, whose 14 major titles trail only Jack Nicklaus’s 18,
was 6-under par for the tournament and 3-over for the final
round when he stopped playing. He changed shoes after completing
nine holes and made bogeys on three of his final five holes.  After hitting his tee shot on the par-5 12th hole, Woods
was taken on a  golf cart  to the parking lot. He got in a
courtesy car with caddie  Joe LaCava , received ice packs from PGA
Tour medical personnel and left the property.  Webb Simpson , Woods’s playing partner yesterday, said his
final swing looked like it “really hurt.”  “He didn’t say a whole lot, but his expression was enough
that he was in enough pain to end it,” Simpson told reporters.  Rose overcame a three-shot deficit to 54-hole leader Watson
to win the title yesterday. The 31-year-old from England shot a
final-round 2-under-par 70 to finish the tournament at 16-under-
par 272. Watson was 2-over par on the final day and missed a
putt on the final green that would have forced a playoff.  Sex Scandal  Woods won the most recent of his 71  PGA Tour  events in
September 2009, two months before a one-vehicle accident near
his Florida home led to revelations of extramarital affairs and
the end of his marriage.  He took a break of almost three months last season
following the Masters, where he tied for fourth place. After
sitting out the next two major championships, Woods missed the
cut for weekend play at the  PGA Championship .  Woods helped the U.S. capture the Presidents Cup team
competition in Australia and won a limited-field tournament he
hosts in  California  in December, his lone stroke-play victory
over the past two years.  He tied for third place in his season-opening event in  Abu
Dhabi  in January and was runner-up alongside Tom Gillis at the
Honda Classic March 4 after shooting a final-round 62. It was
the best final-round score of Woods’s PGA Tour career.  “It’s a shame, because he looked like he was coming out
this year, swinging it really well, playing good, getting
himself into contention,”  Rory McIlroy , golf’s No. 1-ranked
player, told reporters. “I really hope he’s healthy for the
Masters, because obviously it would be a great week with him
there. He can spark an interest in golf that no one else can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 