-- In Iran Standoff, Netanyahu Could Be Bluffing: Jeffrey Goldberg
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-03-12T23:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/in-iran-standoff-netanyahu-may-be-bluffing-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
Whenever I’m in the Middle East, I
find myself, sometimes within hours of arrival, more susceptible
to the appeal of elaborate conspiracy theories.  Perhaps it’s the air, or the (lack of) water, but what
sounds outlandish in the U.S. doesn’t seem nearly so far-fetched
here. I’m not referring to conspiracy theories drawn from the
swamps of Sept. 11 delusion-mongering, or from the “Protocols of
the Elders of Zion” or, alternatively, from the “Protocols of
the Lunatics Who Believe Barack Obama Is a Muslim.”  I’m talking about the belief, advanced to me by a former
senior Israeli military official, and echoed by other non-insane
people, that Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  is
bluffing: He has never had any intention of launching air and
missile strikes against  Iran ’s nuclear program, and is working
behind the scenes with Obama to stop Iran through sanctions.  In this interpretation, what Netanyahu has been doing --
for the past 15 years, in and out of office -- is creating
conditions in which U.S., Western and Arab leaders believe that
they must deny Iran its dream of nuclear weapons or else suffer
the chaotic fallout of a precipitous, paranoia-driven Israeli
attack.  An Attractive Theory  The theory has its attractions. For one, Israel hasn’t yet
attacked Iran, though its leaders, going back to Yitzhak Rabin,
have all stressed the danger an Iranian nuclear program would
pose to  Israel ’s existence. For at least the past two years,
experts have argued that an Israeli strike is highly likely, yet
it hasn’t happened.  Another attraction has to do with the personality of the
man himself: Netanyahu is much better at talking than doing.
Despite his reputation in some circles as a trigger-happy
extremist, Netanyahu has, when compared with his recent
predecessors, only sparingly used force against foes such as
Hezbollah and Hamas. What he does deploy, daily, are words --
huge gusts of words infused with drama and portents of
catastrophe.  His speech on March 5 to the American Israel Public Affairs
Committee convention in  Washington  is a case in point. Before an
audience of 13,000, mainly Jews attuned to threats against their
people, Netanyahu drew a direct line between Auschwitz in 1944
and Iran’s nuclear facilities today. If indeed the Iranian
nuclear program is a physical manifestation of the Auschwitz
spirit, then shouldn’t Netanyahu have ordered airstrikes from
the stage? Yet he didn’t.  The former Israeli military official I spoke with Sunday in
 Tel Aviv  suggested three possible explanations for Netanyahu’s
lack of action: 1) He is paralyzed and won’t act, no matter what
he believes the threat to be; 2) He fears he would risk a
serious rupture in his country’s alliance with the U.S. if he
attacked Iran unilaterally; and 3) It’s all part of a game, one
he has tacitly engineered with Obama.  I remain fairly confident that Netanyahu means it when he
says that Israel would strike Iran to prevent it from going
nuclear, but this third option is an interesting one, mainly
because the game -- a sustained Israeli bluff -- would seem to
be working so well.  Obama and Netanyahu don’t like each other very much. When I
 asked Obama  if he and Netanyahu are friends, he said, in
essence, “Well, we’re all so busy with our jobs.” It certainly
seems clear from the outside that the two men don’t have a
trusting relationship.  Extraordinary Accomplishment  But they have accomplished something extraordinary together
over the past two years. The sanctions Obama has placed on Iran
are some of the toughest ever placed on any country. Even some
hardliners now believe that they just might force a change in
Iran’s nuclear calculus. And how has Obama convinced the world
that these sanctions are necessary? By pointing to Netanyahu and
saying, “If you don’t cooperate with me on sanctions, this guy
is going to blow up the  Middle East .”  Obama’s good-cop routine is then aided immeasurably by the
world’s willingness to believe that Netanyahu is the bad cop.  No one fully understands the dynamic between Obama and
Netanyahu, apart from the men themselves. And no one, maybe not
even their closest advisers, knows what they said to each other
when they met alone March 5 in the White House. I recognize the
suggestion that the two men are deliberately tag-teaming Iran is
a bit much to swallow, and I recognize, too, that believing
Netanyahu never intends to attack Iran by himself is dangerous.  But, if true, Netanyahu is proving himself to be an adept
poker player. Obama told me in an interview that, “as president
of the  United States , I don’t bluff.” Whether Netanyahu bluffs
is perhaps the more important question.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 