-- India Ends Cotton-Shipment Ban, to Revalidate Existing Permits for Export
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-03-12T09:43:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/india-ends-cotton-shipment-ban-to-revalidate-existing-permits-for-export.html
India , the world’s second-biggest
cotton producer, ended a one-week ban on exports and will resume
shipments once permits already issued are revalidated, the
government said.  Exports of as much as 3.5 million 170-kilogram bales
registered before the ban will be scrutinized, Commerce
Secretary  Rahul Khullar  said today. The Directorate General of
 Foreign Trade  will revalidate the permits within 10 days and a
panel headed by Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  will meet in
two weeks to discuss exports, said Kiran Dhingra, textiles
secretary. Fresh registrations will not be allowed until further
notice, Khullar said.  India barred exports on March 5 to secure domestic supplies
after sales exceeded the government’s estimate of the country’s
exportable surplus. The ban spurred protests from growers,
traders and  China , its biggest customer. A resumption of
shipments may add to global supplies and pressure futures, which
have fallen 55 percent in New York in the past year.  “All the registration certificates will be scrutinized to
see whether one is privy to any fictitious transactions,” said
Khullar. “Shipments can take place if the transaction is
transparent. We have to keep the interests of the farmers and
the mills.”  The country suspended sales after shipments surged to about
9.5 million bales, already more than the 8.4 million bales the
government had estimated as the surplus available for export.  Futures in India  Cotton futures trimmed gains in India. The April-delivery
contract traded 0.8 percent higher at 830 rupees ($16.6) per 20
kilograms at 1:38 p.m. on the National Commodity & Derivatives
Exchange of India Ltd., paring an advance of 3 percent.  Futures fell for a fifth day in  New York , the longest
losing streak since September. The May-delivery contract dropped
as much as 0.9 percent to 88 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S.
before trading at 88.65 cents. The ban drove prices up by the
daily limit on March 5 and to 94.24 cents the following day, the
highest level since Feb. 17.  “Keeping in view the interests of the farmers, industry,
trade, a balanced view has been considered by the Group of
Ministers to roll back the ban,” Trade Minister  Anand Sharma 
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The government came under pressure to withdraw the curbs
after Agriculture Minister  Sharad Pawar  said the prohibition
would hurt planting prospects and an industry group in China
said the move damaged international trade.  Record Surplus  The world would have a record trade surplus of 2 million
bales of 480 pounds (218 kilograms) if India exported all the
cotton registered, Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Hussein Allidina  said in an e-mailed report on March 9. The brokerage
lowered its 2011-2012 price estimate to 90 cents a pound from $1,
citing weak global demand.  The ban damaged international trade, the China Cotton
Association said on March 8. The association, supervised by
China’s Ministry of Civil Affairs, “hopes that the Indian
government revokes the incorrect policy,” it said. The
Liverpool, England-based International Cotton Association, which
handles contract arbitration, had said the prohibition will
“have a major, detrimental impact” on global trade.  India is set to supply 20 percent of global exports in
2011-2012, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates.
Shipments will probably be 7.75 million 480-pound bales, up from
5.1 million bales the previous year, out of a global total 38.77
million bales, the agency said. The estimate assumed the ban
would remain in place, it said March 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net 
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  