-- India’s Industrial Output Growth Beats Estimates, Spurring Sensex Advance
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-03-12T12:15:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/india-s-industrial-output-growth-beats-estimates-spurring-sensex-advance.html
India ’s industrial production
unexpectedly rose at the fastest pace in seven months in January,
weathering the highest  interest rates  since 2008 and weaker
global growth.  Output (INPIINDY)  at factories, utilities and mines advanced 6.8
percent from a year earlier, after a revised 2.5 percent climb
in December, the Central Statistical Office said in a statement
in New Delhi today. The figure exceeded all 26  estimates  in a
Bloomberg News survey.  A history of swings in the data may prevent the report from
easing concern that the cost of credit and the impact of
 Europe ’s debt crisis are dimming India’s economic outlook. The
central bank, which lowered lenders’ reserve requirements last
week and reviews rates on March 15, has signaled readiness to
join nations from  Brazil  to the Philippines in cutting borrowing
costs as expansion slows and inflation eases.  “The production figures are very volatile and I wouldn’t
give too much weight to this number,” said  Madan Sabnavis ,
chief economist at Credit Analysis & Research Ltd. in Mumbai.
“The overall growth trend still remains weak. The  Reserve Bank
of India  will wait until April to take any action on rates, and
by then it will have more information on the  budget deficit  and
inflation.”  Currency, Stocks  The rupee weakened 0.3 percent to 49.9831 per dollar at the
5:00 p.m. close in Mumbai. It has rebounded 6.2 percent so far
in 2012 after sliding 16 percent last year, the worst fall in
 Asia . The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  rose 0.5 percent. The yield
on the 8.79 percent note due November 2021 rose one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.3 percent.  A government forecast of 6.9 percent gross domestic product
growth in the year through March, the slowest since 2009, policy
gridlock and fiscal and trade deficits have fanned concern that
the outlook for Asia’s third-largest economy is deteriorating.  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee presents the budget for
the next fiscal year the day after the Reserve Bank assesses
rates. The central bank has signaled that steps to tackle price
pressures by paring the budget gap can boost its scope to cut
borrowing costs.  India’s gross domestic product rose 6.1 percent last
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in more than two
years. It climbed 8.4 percent in the last fiscal year.  The  Reserve Bank  raised its  repurchase rate  by a record
3.75 percentage points from March 2010 to October 2011, to 8.5
percent, to restrain the cost of living.  Easing Inflation  Inflation held at close to the lowest level in 26 months in
February, with the wholesale-price index gaining 6.7 percent
from a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey.  That would still be the fastest pace in the so-called BRIC
group of economies that also includes Brazil, Russia and  China .
This year’s 17 percent climb in the price of Brent crude oil,
the benchmark for almost all of India’s imports, threatens to
spur price rises.  “Growth is slowing and at the same time there are fresh
risks to inflation from rising crude  oil prices ,” said Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore .  Tata Steel Ltd., India’s biggest producer of the alloy,
increased prices for the second consecutive month in March as
demand for steel climbed on prospects for interest-rate cuts.  Manufacturing gained 8.5 percent in January from a year
earlier after a 2.6 percent advance in December, today’s report
showed. Electricity output rose 3.2 percent. Mining fell 2.7
percent.  The Reserve Bank reduced the amount of deposits lenders
need to set aside as reserves on March 9, to 4.75 percent from
5.5 percent. The bank last reduced the ratio on Jan. 24, by 0.5
percentage point.  Indian officials are under pressure to revive growth, with
Prime Minister Manmohan Singh trying to preserve an economic
turnaround that began in the 1990s.  Singh’s ruling Congress party was routed in regional
elections last week. President Pratibha Devisingh Patil told
parliament today that the government remains confident it will
soon raise economic growth to 8 percent to 9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  