-- Mining Stocks to Suffer Most as Putin Returns: Russia Overnight
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-03-13T03:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/mining-stocks-to-suffer-most-as-putin-returns-russia-overnight.html
Russian steel and mining companies
will be the biggest losers when  Vladimir Putin  returns to the
Kremlin, amid speculation the new regime will boost their taxes
to fulfill social spending promises, analysts say.  With policy makers planning to cut levies on some oil
products to boost output of  Russia ’s biggest export earner,
metals and mining companies are a “risk sector” as Putin may
raise the industry’s taxes to make up for the shortfall and to
fund programs such as affordable housing, higher pensions and
salaries for state employees pledged during his presidential
campaign, according to  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Moscow-
based investment bank Troika Dialog.  Futures expiring in March on Russia’s  RTS (RTSI$)  Index rose 0.1
percent to 171,440 in U.S. trading, as the  Bloomberg Russia-U.S.
14 Index (RUS14BN)  of Russian companies traded in  New York  slipped 0.4
percent to 110.86 yesterday.  OAO Mechel (MTL) , Russia’s biggest coal
producer for steelmakers, lost 1.6 percent, while  Polyus Gold
International Ltd. (PLZLY) , Russia’s largest producer of the metal, fell
1.1 percent to $3.51 in U.S. trading.  “The extractive industries always finance the budget and a
large part of those social programs,” Ilya Kravets, a research
analyst at ED Capital, which manages almost $100 million in
assets, said by phone yesterday in New York. “The oil industry
has the highest taxes, the rest of the extractives have slightly
lower tax rates. There may be an increase in taxes across all
types of extractives to compensate for the oil industry’s
potential decrease in taxation.”  Rusal Suspension  Putin, who won a third term as president on March 4, vowed
to boost pensions and salaries for state workers and the
military during campaigning, pledges that will contribute to a
4.8 trillion-ruble ($162 billion) increase in spending through
2018, according to Capital Economics Ltd. A proposal to reduce
the export duty on extra-heavy crude to stimulate output could
become law by July 1, Deputy Finance Minister  Sergei Shatalov 
said on March 6.  Mechel (MTLR) ,  OAO Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel (MAGN) , the oldest of
Russia’s eight main standalone steel mills, and OAO Novolipetsk
Steel, Russia’s largest steelmaker by market value, may be some
of the companies taxed under the mineral extraction tax,
according to Kravets. Mechel has risen 19 percent this year.  United Co. Rusal (486) , the world’s largest aluminum producer,
dropped 1.3 percent to HK$6.12 in Hong Kong trading before being
suspended. Victor Vekselberg resigned as the company’s chairman
after disagreeing with management’s decisions and saying the
company faces a “deep crisis.”  Utility Tariffs  Oil companies  that have invested in large-scale new
projects, like  Rosneft Oil Co. (ROSNEF) ,  Gazprom Neft JSC (GZPFY)  and TNK-BP, BP
Plc’s Russian venture with a group of billionaires, will get
bigger export duty cuts “to stimulate production,” Kravets
said. Gazprom Neft declined 0.1 percent to $26.68 in U.S.
trading yesterday. The stock has  gained  14 percent this year.
The shares slipped 2.3 percent to 158.45 rubles, or the
equivalent of $5.35, on Russia’s ruble-denominated Micex Index.  Putin delayed utility-price increases due in January until
July during the run-up to the March 4 election. The utilities
sector is a “real battleground,” as the government is
“unlikely” to raise tariffs soon after the election while such
companies as Moscow-based state-owned electricity exporter  OAO
Inter Rao Ues (IRAO) , require funding for their extensive capital
investments, Weafer said.  “The companies in this sector are low-valued relative to
international peers because of the concern over the utility
tariffs but I wouldn’t be buying them right now expecting the
tariffs position to be changed or restored quickly,” Weafer
said by phone from Moscow.  RusHydro Drops  Utility companies may have to wait up to a year before the
government increases tariffs, Weafer said.  OAO RusHydro (RSHYY) ,
Russia’s largest hydropower producer, fell 1.5 percent to $4 in
U.S. trading yesterday. RusHydro retreated 0.5 percent to 1.18
rubles, or the equivalent of 4 cents, on the Micex.  The 30-stock Micex retreated 0.1 percent to 1,604.26
yesterday in Moscow, while the  RTS (RTSI$)  rose 2.2 percent to 1,714.12.  The Economy Ministry proposed state companies pay 25
percent of profit under International Financial Reporting
Standards as dividends, Vedomosti reported on March 11.  “In the context of the delay in the government’s
privatization plans, the more normal market requirements will be
introduced for the state companies, the better,” said Slava Rabinovich, Moscow-based chief executive officer of Diamond Age
Capital Advisors, which manages $20 million in Russian equities.  ‘Impact’  OAO Transneft,  Rostelecom (RTKM)  OJSC, OAO Sberbank and OAO
Gazprom are among the companies the proposal relates to,  Luis Saenz , chief executive officer of Otkritie Inc., said by e-mail
yesterday. Rostelecom, Russia’s biggest fixed-line phone
provider, rose 0.5 percent to $29.59 in U.S. trading. The Micex
shares gained 0.8 percent to 145.43 rubles, or the equivalent of
$4.91. One ADR equals six ordinary shares.  “Rosneft already pays 20 to 25 percent, this won’t heavily
impact them,” Julia Novichenkova, gas and oil analyst at
Uralsib Financial Corp. in Moscow, said by phone. “For Gazprom,
this is not such a big sum that would affect their finances. For
the oil industry, the impact won’t be significant.”  Crude for April delivery added 0.5 percent to $106.90 in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contracts declined 1 percent to $106.34 yesterday. Brent oil
slid 0.5 percent to $125.34 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange,
while Urals crude, Russia’s chief export blend, lost 0.1 percent
to $123.63, falling for the first time in four days.  ADRs of  OAO Mobile TeleSystems (MBT)  slipped 1.8 percent to
$17.74 in U.S. trading as the company said revenue growth will
slow over the next four years.  Revenue  The Moscow-based company, known as MTS, expects revenue to
probably climb 5 percent to 7 percent through 2015, after
gaining 9 percent last year to $12.3 billion, Chief Executive
Officer  Andrei Dubovskov  said yesterday. Fourth-quarter revenue
slid to $2.98 billion from $3 billion a year earlier, Dubovskov
said.  MTS (MTSS)  was little changed at 227 rubles, or the equivalent of
$7.67, on Russia’s ruble-denominated Micex Index. One ADR is
equal to two ordinary shares.  Mechel said in a statement yesterday it got a license to
extract  iron ore  in “several promising deposits” in two areas
of the eastern Siberian Republic of Sakha.  The company received licenses for researching,
investigating and extracting iron ore in the Sutamsky area and
in the Sivaglinsky deposit, both located in Sakha, according to
the statement. Mechel estimates iron ore reserves in the 740
square kilometer Sutamsky license area at 1.35 billion tons. The
areas are near Mechel’s Elga coal field, its largest project.  Search Market Share  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI index  of 24 raw materials fell
0.4 percent to 704.27 yesterday, retreating for the first time
in four days. Copper, nickel and aluminum declined on the London
Metal Exchange.  Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s most popular Internet search engine,
declined 2.3 percent to $22.94 in New York yesterday as its
weekly search-market share dropped to the lowest since at least
August 2010, while Google Inc.’s portion increased, data
compiled by  Liveinternet.ru  show.  Yandex’s share of the Russian search market declined to
59.1 percent in the week through March 11, the lowest in data
going back to August 2010 of Liveinternet, an Internet-service
provider and researcher. Yandex’s share was 59.3 percent the
previous week and averaged 59.3 percent over the past four
weeks, the data showed.  Google’s (GOOG)  share of Russian searches rose to 26 percent from
25.7 percent, compared with a four-week average of 25.6 percent,
according to the Liveinternet data.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, declined 0.8 percent to $32.46. The  RTS
Volatility Index (RTSVX) , which measures expected swings in the index
futures, fell 2.8 percent to 32.74 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  