-- Internet Overseer Needs to Tighten Conflict Rules, CEO Says
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-03-12T20:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/internet-overseer-needs-to-tighten-conflict-rules-ceo-says.html
The organization that manages the
Internet’s address system should strengthen conflict-of-interest
rules for its board of directors, the group’s chief executive
officer said.  “It is time to further tighten up the rules that have
allowed perceived conflicts to exist within our board,”  Rod Beckstrom , CEO of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names
and Numbers, said at a meeting of the group in  Costa Rica  today.  “Icann must place commercial and financial interests in
their appropriate context,” said Beckstrom, who plans to step
down in July, according to a transcript of the speech. “How can
it do this if all top leadership is from the very domain name
industry it is supposed to coordinate independently?”  Icann, which manages the Internet’s domain-name system
under a U.S. Commerce Department contract, approved a plan in
June to consider hundreds more domains such as .apple and .nyc
in a move to spur online innovation. The group began accepting
applications for new Web suffixes in January for a three-month
window ending April 12.  Public-interest organizations, a national advertisers group
and a U.S. senator criticized Icann after its previous chairman,
Peter Dengate Thrush, joined a company that plans to invest in
new domains less than a month after the board approved the
expansion in June.  General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  and more than 50 other
U.S. companies oppose the proposed domain expansion, saying it
will increase their costs, confuse customers and fuel Internet
fraud.  Canceled Bid  The Commerce Department on March 10 canceled its request
for proposals on a new contract to manage the Internet’s address
system, saying none of the responses it received met its
requirements.  The contract’s requirements include having a “robust”
conflict of interest policy and increased transparency,
according to a  notice  posted on the website of the Commerce
Department’s National Telecommunications and Information
Administration.  Beckstrom, speaking at a news conference in Costa Rica
today, declined to say whether Icann had submitted a proposal.
The nonprofit, based in  Marina del Rey ,  California , has managed
the Internet’s address system since 1998.  The Commerce Department  extended  Icann’s current contract
for six months, until Sept. 30. The agency said it would reissue
the bid at a later, unspecified date.  Moira Vahey, a spokeswoman for NTIA, declined to comment,
citing procurement rules. Mona-Lisa Dunn, a Commerce Department
contracting officer, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed
request for comment.  ‘Speaks Volumes’  NTIA’s cancellation of the contract bid “speaks volumes on
how serious the problems are with Icann and its continued need
to respond responsibly to the clear demands of the stakeholders
it purports to represent,” Bob Liodice, president of the
Association of National Advertisers, said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The trade group has led opposition to Icann’s domain
expansion, calling for postponement of the program and later
proposing a “Do Not Sell” list to let companies keep their
brand names out of it.  Ethics Policies  Icann asked yesterday for public comment on revisions to
its conflict-of-interest policy, code of conduct and other
standards. The revised conflict-of-interest policy “strengthens
procedures for disclosing, processing and evaluating actual and
potential conflicts of interest,” according to a memo posted by
the organization.  “This is necessary not just to be responsive to the
growing chorus of criticism about Icann’s ethics environment but
to ensure that absolute dedication to the public good supersedes
all other priorities,” Beckstrom said in his speech.  A central challenge for Icann’s next CEO will be “to
continue the drive to clarify and cast sunlight on the sometimes
murky relationships that exist among board, staff, community and
industry,” Beckstrom said.  A total of 254 entities have registered with Icann to apply
for new top-level domains, and each of those can apply for up to
50 Web suffixes, Beckstrom said. He declined to name applicants.
The list will be published by May 1, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 