-- Iona College Among NCAA Tournament’s Last Invitees Year After VCU’s Run
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-03-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/iona-college-among-ncaa-tournament-s-last-invitees-year-after-vcu-s-run.html
Iona College  of  New York  has a
chance to become this year’s Virginia Commonwealth after getting
one of the last two invitations to the national men’s college
basketball tournament.  New Rochelle, New York-based Iona celebrated its place in
the field of 68 schools for the National Collegiate Athletic
Association tournament one week after an upset loss to Fairfield
University in the semifinals of the  Metro Atlantic Athletic
Conference  tournament.  Iona was selected over schools such as the University of
Miami,  Drexel University , Mississippi State, the University of
 Nevada , Oral Roberts University and the University of
 Washington . A year ago, Virginia Commonwealth was in Dayton as
one of the last schools in the NCAA field and pulled off five
straight upset wins to reach the Final Four as a No. 11 seed.  “They had a very good non-conference strength of
schedule,” NCAA Tournament selection committee chairman Jeff Hathaway said of Iona on TruTV. “A very good basketball team,
very good on offense. Obviously a lot of people will debate it
and that’s what makes it fun.”  The Gaels, who went 25-7 and won the MAAC regular-season
title, will play  Brigham Young University  tomorrow in Dayton,
 Ohio , for a chance at a No. 14 seed in the West Regional. The
winner advances to a matchup against  Marquette University  in
Louisville,  Kentucky , on March 15.  Iona has a 1-8 record all-time in the NCAA tournament, with
its lone victory coming in 1980, when the Gaels beat Holy Cross
under late coach Jim Valvano, who went on to win a national
championship at North Carolina State.  Iona’s last NCAA tournament appearance came in 2006, a 16-
point loss to Louisiana State.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  