-- Iran Fleet Seen Too Small to Sustain Oil Exports as Tankers Avoid Country
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-03-12T15:58:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/iran-fleet-seen-too-small-to-sustain-oil-exports-as-tankers-avoid-country.html
Oil exports from Iran, OPEC’s
second-biggest producer, may drop because the nation’s tanker
fleet is too small to carry all its cargoes as European Union
sanctions cause international ship owners to avoid the country.  NITC owns 39 vessels able to carry about 70 million barrels
of crude, according to its website. The fleet would be
insufficient to deliver the nation’s monthly exports of about 65
million barrels because journey durations can be as long as two
months, said Dag Kilen, an analyst at Fearnley Consultants A/S,
a unit of  Norway ’s second-largest shipbroker. Sanctions already
cut shipments by 300,000 to 400,000 barrels a day,  Barclays
Capital  said March 7.  Frontline Ltd.,  Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. (OSG)  and owners
of at least 100 supertankers said a month ago they would no
longer call at Iran because of an insurance ban announced Jan.
23 by the EU as part of a wider sanctions package. The
prohibition, due to take full effect July 1, extends to 95
percent of the supertanker fleet because companies providing
coverage must follow EU law.  “The fleet itself is not big enough to ship all the oil
they are normally exporting,” Kilen said by phone March 9. “I
would expect to see a decline in exports as a consequence of
 Iran  not having a national fleet big enough to export the normal
volume.”  Kharg Island  NITC commercial director Habibolah Seyedan declined to
comment by phone from Tehran.  NITC owned six of the seven tankers that called last week
at Kharg Island, Iran’s largest oil terminal, compared with five
of eight vessels the week before, according to ship-tracking
data compiled by Bloomberg. Iran’s fleet accounted for 73
percent of the port’s shipments so far this month, against 56
percent in February and 37 percent in January, the data show.  Half of the tankers booked to load at Kharg Island last
month failed to complete the voyages, according to brokers,
company officials and ship-tracking data. Crude traded in  London 
is up 16 percent this year to $125.01 a barrel.  U.S. and EU leaders are tightening pressure on Iran over
its nuclear program, which the government in Tehran says is for
civilian purposes. Iran pumped 3.45 million barrels of oil a day
last month, the least since September 2002, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Exports averaged about 2.2 million
barrels a day, the U.S. Energy Department estimates. Oil sales
earned the Persian Gulf country $73 billion in 2010, accounting
for about 50 percent of government revenue.  “Owners are not going because of the sanctions
restrictions,” said Nikos Varvaropoulos, a Dubai-based official
at Optima Shipbrokers Ltd. “This is causing a real constraint
on Iranian oil shipments.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  