-- IRS Regulation of Tax Preparers to Be Challenged in Lawsuit
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-03-12T19:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/irs-tax-preparer-regulations-to-be-challenged-in-federal-lawsuit.html
A nonprofit group plans to sue the
 Internal Revenue Service  and argue that the agency’s effort to
regulate tax-return preparers is unlawful.  The Institute for Justice, an organization in Arlington,
 Virginia , that seeks to protect individual liberties, said in a
statement it will file the lawsuit tomorrow in U.S. District
Court in Washington.  “They’re wildly overextending their actual authority
granted by Congress,” said Dan Alban, an attorney at the
institute who is representing three tax-return preparers.  The IRS regulations, which are scheduled to take effect
incrementally over the next several years, require tax-return
preparers to pass a competency test and meet continuing
education requirements.  Last week, the IRS said it had begun sending test results
and certificates for those who have become registered tax-return
preparers.  Alban said the regulations benefit attorneys, certified
public accountants, enrolled agents already granted authority to
practice before the IRS and large tax-preparation chains such as
 H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  Those groups either have been exempted from some
of the rules or have economies of scale that give them an
advantage over independent preparers.  The IRS doesn’t comment on potential or pending litigation,
 Grant Williams , an agency spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Reducing Tax Fraud  In a November 2011 speech to the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants, IRS Commissioner  Douglas Shulman 
said the return-preparer program would improve compliance and
limit tax fraud.  “Boiled down to its essence, the program will ensure a
basic level of competency for return preparers while enabling us
to focus on finding unscrupulous preparers,” he said.  Alban said the IRS could accomplish those goals with
return-preparer registration rules that the lawsuit won’t
challenge and with existing penalties for tax fraud and other
infractions.  Edward Karl, vice president for taxation at the certified
public accountants group, said accountants and other
professionals already have extensive testing and continuing-
education standards.  “I do understand why folks who have done this for years
and feel that they’re competent don’t want to change,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  