-- Netanyahu Says Israel May Broaden Gaza Military Operation Amid Rocket Fire
-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-03-12T20:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/israeli-airstrikes-kill-three-in-gaza-strip-as-violence-enters-fourth-day.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said the army may expand operations in the  Gaza Strip 
after Palestinians fired more than 160 rockets over the border
and Israeli air strikes killed at least 22 Gaza residents.  “Whoever intends to harm our citizens, we will strike at
him,” Netanyahu today told the Knesset, Israel’s parliament.
The military “is ready to expand its operations and continue
them as necessary.”  In  New York , U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  joined
other members of the so-called Mideast Quartet in expressing
“serious concern” about the recent escalation. The group --
composed of the U.S.,  United Nations ,  Russia  and the European
Union -- called on Israel and the Palestinians to “refrain from
provocative actions” and “remain engaged” in the  peace
process , according to a five-sentence statement following a
meeting at the UN.  This month’s bloodshed began with a March 9 Israeli air
strike on what the army said were two militants planning an
attack from the Egyptian-controlled Sinai, including Zuhir al-
Qaisi, head of the Popular Resistance Committees. The fighting
has been the worst since August, when eight Israelis were killed
in an attack near the resort of Eilat and at least 24
Palestinians died in subsequent air strikes.  Israeli Air Strikes  Air strikes on the Hamas-controlled territory killed at
least four Palestinians in the past 24 hours. Gaza health
official Adham Abu Selmeya told reporters that two militants and
three civilians were killed and 45 people injured.  Israel 
disputed its involvement in the death of one of those killed,
saying its aircraft weren’t active in the area where it was
reported. The  air force  targeted a number of militants, rocket-
launching sites and weapons storage facilities, the army said in
an e-mailed statement.  Many of those who died in Gaza were members of Islamic
Jihad, a small, militant group supported by  Iran  and considered
a terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European
Union. Israel said it holds Hamas, which rules Gaza, responsible
for all attacks emanating from the territory.  At least 40 rockets fired from Gaza struck Israel, with no
injuries reported, Israel police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said.
Four people have been wounded by about 160 rockets since March
9, Rosenfeld said. Palestinian rockets also hit two vehicles
delivering goods to Gaza at a border crossing point, Israeli
officials said.  Financial Markets  Israel’s short-term government bonds rose, pushing yields
lower for the first time in eight days, as demand for the
country’s safer assets increased amid violence in the south.  The yield on the 3.5 percent notes due September 2013 fell
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 2.63 percent,
the lowest since Feb. 29, at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv.
The yield on the 5.5 percent notes retreated three basis points
to 4.71 percent. The  TA-25 benchmark stock index  dropped the
most in almost one week, declining 1.1 percent.  In 2008, Israel entered Gaza during a three-week operation
in which at least 1,100 Palestinians and 12 Israelis were
killed.  “Hamas doesn’t want to repeat what happened in the 2008
war, because it knows very well that another large-scale Israeli
war on Gaza would damage its presence and it may lose power,”
Mkhaimar Abusada, a political scientist at Al-Azhar University
in Gaza City, said in a telephone interview. “Now Islamic Jihad
leads the resistance and considers itself the pioneer armed
wing.”  Schools Closes  Taher Nunu, a Hamas spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday that his movement “is holding contacts with
various parties, including our Egyptian brothers, to end the
Israeli aggression upon our people.”  Schools in Israel’s southern towns and cities were ordered
to stay closed for a second day, affecting some 250,000
students, Rosenfeld said. Israel decided to reopen its Kerem
Shalom crossing to Gaza after shutting it briefly when it came
under fire from three mortars from the Palestinian side of the
border, according to Guy Inbar, a Defense Ministry spokesman.  “Islamic Jihad wants to be able to claim an achievement in
hurting Israel, but we’ve managed to limit the damage and hurt
them more,” said Ephraim Kam, deputy director of  Tel Aviv 
University’s Institute for  National Security (NSX)  Studies. “They
aren’t big enough to sustain a long campaign by themselves.”  ‘Blatant Provocation’  Palestinian leaders in the  West Bank  condemned Israel’s
assault on Gaza.  Hanan Ashrawi , a member of the Palestine
Liberation Organization’s Executive Committee, called Israel’s
killing of Palestinians in Gaza “a blatant provocation in
violation of international and humanitarian law.”  Netanyahu pledged to boost civilian defense with more Iron
Dome anti-missile systems, which have shot down at least 44
rockets in the current round of violence, the army said.  Meanwhile,  Egypt ’s parliament demanded that the government
expel Israel’s ambassador and recall Egypt’s envoy from Tel Aviv
to protest against the attacks on Gaza, the state-run Middle
East  news agency  reported. The assembly also called for an
immediate end to natural gas exports to Israel, the Cairo-based
news agency reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Gaza at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  