-- Mississippi Whites Not Used to Help Back Republican Aid Cutters
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-03-12T04:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/mississippi-whites-not-used-to-help-back-republican-aid-cutters.html
Like many people in  Mississippi (BEESMS) ,
Kevin and Nanine Parker have felt the sting of a strong
recession and a weak recovery. Now, no longer able to make ends
meet, they’ve reluctantly applied for  food stamps .  “It’s been tough for us,” says 61-year-old Nanine.
“We’re trying to get a little help. We never had to before.”  Even as they wait for  government aid , the Parkers plan to
vote tomorrow for a presidential candidate whose proposals will
make it harder to get such benefits in the future.  The major Republican contenders in the Mississippi primary
--  Mitt Romney ,  Rick Santorum  and  Newt Gingrich  -- want to turn
over to the states federal programs such as food stamps, housing
vouchers and Medicaid. That would transform the aid from open-
ended entitlements into fixed annual grants while allowing
states to impose new conditions upon recipients, ultimately
reducing the number helped.  Many voters welcome such proposals. They’re alarmed by the
U.S. government’s $15 trillion debt and the cost of programs
such as Medicaid, the insurance system for the poor that is
jointly funded with states, where spending rose to $275 billion
last year from $180.6 billion in 2006. “The system’s been
abused,” says Nanine Parker.  Yet with  Mississippi  already failing to fully fund its
obligations, including education, some experts fear that it and
other poor states would be overwhelmed by additional
responsibilities.  A ‘Disaster’  “It would be an unmitigated disaster,” said W. Martin Wiseman, director of the John C. Stennis Institute of Government
at  Mississippi State University  in Starkville.  The proposal to devolve social programs to the states may
draw more attention as the presidential contest arrives in
Mississippi and Alabama, two of the nation’s least-affluent
states. In  Mississippi , 22 percent of the 3 million residents
received food stamps in December 2011, the highest percentage in
the nation, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  In both Mississippi and  Alabama , median household income is
below the national average and poverty rates are above it.
Mississippi’s median income of $37,881 in 2010 was only three-
quarters of the national figure while the state’s 22.7 percent
poverty rate was about one-and-a-half times the national figure.  Culture of Dependency  Republicans say transferring the programs to state control
would help end a culture of dependency, curb federal spending
and provide more targeted assistance. Those who “depend on the
social safety net will be better served by state programs where
decisions are tailored to address local issues and concerns,”
Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for the campaign of Romney, a former
Massachusetts governor, said in an e-mail.  Alice Stewart , who represents the campaign of Santorum, a
onetime senator from  Pennsylvania , and R.C. Hammond, a spokesman
for former U.S. House Speaker Gingrich, didn’t respond to e-
mails requesting comment.  Both Mississippi and Alabama are Republican leaning, with
many voters critical of what they see as Washington’s excessive
regulation and  wasteful spending . Residents of both states also
receive more from the federal government than they contribute
financially, according to the nonpartisan  Tax Foundation .  Mississippi ranked second in federal benefits received
relative to taxes paid, behind only  New Mexico , in a foundation
study released in 2007, the most recent assessment available.
Mississippians got back more than twice as much in benefits as
they paid for and ranked no lower than fourth in any year since
fiscal 1981, the  study  found. Alabama was seventh.  Matter of Race  Still, in 2008, Republican presidential nominee  John McCain 
got 46 percent of the vote nationally and 56 percent in
Mississippi.  There are many here who say that race is an unavoidable
part of the explanation for what they see as a disconnect.  Mississippi has moved beyond the divisions of the civil
rights era: the 1963 murder of Medgar Evers and the killings of
three civil rights workers the following year. Today, the
international airport in the capital, Jackson, is named for
Evers. And Meridian’s Republican mayor, Cheri Barry, said she’s
working to establish a civil rights museum in town.  The legacy of such divisiveness isn’t far beneath the
surface. “There is something tied to the psyche of the people
in the South,” said  Oleta Fitzgerald , Southern regional
director for the Children’s Defense Fund in Jackson, echoing
several others interviewed. “However poor they are, they see
poverty as black.”  Racial Equalizer  Margie Watkins, 83, who is white, moved from the  Democratic
Party  to the Republicans so long ago she can’t put a precise
date on it. She said the recession’s suffering has been a great
racial equalizer.  “Whites don’t say it, but they’re getting help, too,” she
said. “They’re not used to having to get help.”  Mississippi’s  unemployment rate  has been above 10 percent
since October 2009; the national rate was at that level for just
one month, October 2009.  The Parkers, natives of  Little Rock ,  Arkansas , spent 10
years working in the Mississippi River casino town of Tunica.
Kevin, 58, with curly blond hair and rimless eyeglasses, was a
pit boss. Nanine, a committed Christian, worked in the cocktail
lounge and sometimes helped in the band.  In a good year, their combined income might reach $50,000
to $60,000, Kevin said. This year, it’ll be much less. The
couple moved recently to Meridian in eastern Mississippi, a
19th-century railroad town about 20 miles from the Alabama
border that anchors a reliably Republican county. There Kevin
found work as a hairdresser. A limp economic recovery has done
them no favors.  “It’s terrible,” he said. “Business has dropped off so
much with gas prices. People are cutting their own hair.”  Calibrating Aid  When social programs are transferred to the states, the
formula for allocating the future federal contribution should be
calibrated according to individual state’s per capita income or
general wealth, said Ron Haskins, a former Republican
congressional aide now at the  Brookings Institution .  “That was not done very well in welfare reform,” said
Haskins, who worked on the 1996 legislation that replaced a New
Deal assistance program with less-costly benefits that were
limited in duration and required applicants to work.  Mississippi has already fallen short of a 1997 state-
funding plan designed to guarantee an “adequate” education by
$1 billion over the past five years. The state also allowed a
waiting list for child-care help to  balloon  to almost 13,000
children after federal stimulus funds ran out, according to the
Mississippi Economic Policy Center in Jackson.  Women and Children  Poverty, both nationally and in Mississippi, is largely a
story of women and children. In the U.S., families headed by a
single mother are almost six times as likely to be poor as in
two-parent households, according to the Census Bureau. And
almost 60 percent of those enrolled in Medicaid are women.  Still, at a time of record  federal debt , Republican calls
to tighten up on social spending strike a responsive chord even
among some who benefit from the programs.  At the Feed by Faith soup kitchen in Meridian, Peggy
Coleman, 62, helps some of the city’s neediest, serving a hot
lunch every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Coleman started the
venture in 2008, after the death of her husband.  “God brought a vision to me,” she said. “He said, ‘This
is what I need you to do.’”  Looking to States  In the beginning, volunteers doled out 500 meals each
month. In February, they served 1,694. Bill Burdette, a retired
Federal Aviation Administration employee who’s become Coleman’s
right-hand man, plans to vote for Gingrich, whom he calls
“honest” and “brilliant.”  Burdette said he sees the wisdom in giving the states
control over social programs. “It’d be a good idea to get the
money back to the states and let the states administer,” he
said. “There’d be one less pocket to siphon it off.”  The last job Carolyn Smith, 57, can remember holding was at
a local  McDonald’s (MCD)  and that was years ago. She survives now on
government assistance, though she isn’t clear which program. She
should apply for food stamps, she says, yet doesn’t have any way
of getting to the county office.  Smith said she realizes budget cuts could reach her. “I’m
concerned and worried about all of it,” she said. “I just
leave that in the hands of God.”  Like many low-income citizens, she won’t vote tomorrow. In
the 2008 presidential election, 51.9 percent of eligible voters
nationwide with incomes below $20,000 cast a ballot compared
with 73.1 percent of those making more than $100,000, according
to a May 2010 Census Bureau report.  ‘New Faces’  Shirley Deville, 62, deputy director of the Multi-County
Community Service Agency in Meridian, said turning food stamps,
Medicaid and housing over to a cash-strapped Mississippi
government would be “insane.”  Deville, who is black, has spent 36 years trying to help
some of the nation’s poorest. In recent years, she’s been seeing
“a lot of new faces,” many of them white, whose politics
confound her.  “The average person thinks that social programs are for
minorities. Well, there is a reason that you’re called a
minority,” she added, drawing out the last word for emphasis.  “A lot of the clientele we see would probably vote for one
of the Republican candidates, who, if elected and had their
choice, would cut out programs like these,” she said. “Someone
has convinced them that they’re not part of the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in  Washington  at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  