-- Italy’s Golden Shares, Tocom Alliance, Housing in Sanya, China: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-03-12T13:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/italy-s-golden-shares-tocom-alliance-housing-in-sanya-china-compliance.html
Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
government scrapped some of its special takeover defenses in
former state-owned companies, seeking to end a dispute with the
European Commission over Italy’s so-called golden share.  The changes adopted at a Cabinet meeting in Rome March 9
will limit the use of the golden share to block takeovers in key
industries such as defense, energy, telecommunications and
transportation, the prime minister’s office said in an e-mailed
statement. Italy still has golden shares in companies such as
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , oil producer  Eni SpA (ENI)  and defense contractor
 Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   In the energy, transportation and communications
industries, the new rules restrict the government’s takeover
veto to buyers outside of the European Union and only under
specific circumstances, such as when they can’t offer sufficient
financial guarantees or the potential buyer may be linked to
organized crime.  For companies in the defense industry, the government veto
can also apply to EU buyers though only if there is an
“effective threat” to national security, according to the
statement.  The EU has repeatedly urged  Italy  to modify its law on
golden shares to comply with the region’s rules. The government
expects the March 9 overhaul to lead to the closing of an EU
infraction procedure against the country opened in 2009,
according to the statement.  Italy will present a draft of the changes to European Union
Financial Services Commissioner Michel Barnier “very quickly,”
 Chantal Hughes , Barnier’s spokeswoman said.  Compliance Policy  China’s Sanya Resort Keeps Rules to Curb Housing Speculation  Chinese resort Sanya is keeping rules aimed at curbing
property speculation, according to its province’s deputy
governor, in contrast to other parts of the country that want to
ease limits and reverse declines in prices.  The city on Hainan will limit home sales to non-island
buyers to the equivalent of 5,000 100-square-meter apartments a
year, Jiang Sixian, deputy governor of Hainan and secretary of
Sanya’s Communist Party committee, said in an interview in
Beijing March 8. As a result, home sales will keep falling in
2012, he said.  The resort on the tropical island off  China ’s southern
coast is trying to reduce speculation from outsiders that’s
“depleting our resources” and boost its year-round population,
Jiang said. Hainan’s goal is to become an international tourism
destination and win visitors away from Indonesia’s Bali or
Thailand’s Phuket.  Hainan’s willingness to maintain property curbs contrasts
with recent efforts in Shanghai to loosen home-purchase
restrictions and in the eastern city of Wuhu to subsidize some
sales.  China’s home sales by square meters fell 16 percent in
January and February combined from a year earlier, the National
Bureau of Statistics said March 9.  For more, click here.  Tocom to Discuss Alliance With CME Next Week, Ezaki Says  Tokyo Commodity Exchange Inc.  will discuss an alliance with
Chicago Mercantile Exchange as Japan’s biggest raw-material
bourse aims to revitalize trade.  Tadashi Ezaki, president of the bourse known as Tocom, told
reporters in Tokyo March 9 he will discuss a product listing and
trading system alliance with CME next week during his visit to
the U.S. He did not rule out the possibility of discussing a
capital tie-up with the exchange.  Tocom, once the second-largest commodities bourse after the
 New York Mercantile Exchange , ranked 11th in 2010 and has been
surpassed by China’s Shanghai and Dalian exchanges.  Japan’s cabinet approved a plan March 9 that would allow
the formation of a one-stop platform where investors can buy
equities, futures and commodities at a single venue, even as
competition regulators review a proposed tie-up between the
country’s two biggest stock exchanges. If the legislation is
passed by parliament, the Financial Services Agency would become
responsible for oversight of stock, commodity and grain
exchanges. Oversight is currently divided between the FSA and
the trade and agriculture ministries.  The proposal comes as Japan’s Fair Trade Commission reviews
a planned merger between  Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. (TSEGZ)  and
 Osaka Securities Exchange Co. (8697)  The FSA, trade and farm ministries
drafted the legislation to lay the groundwork for a more
comprehensive unification of Japan’s bourses.  The new rules would categorize commodity futures as
financial products that could be traded as derivatives.
Permission to list the derivatives would be granted by the FSA
in consultation with concerned ministries.  Basel Group May Reach Deal on Changes to Bank Liquidity Rule  Global banking regulators will seek an accord later this
month on changes to draft liquidity rules criticized by some
governments and lenders as a threat to economic recovery.  The measures will be considered at a meeting of the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision on March 20 and 21, Rene van
Wyk, who represents South Africa’s central bank on the
committee, said in an interview.  The Basel group will “present some calibration points and
technical calculations” without changing the “fundamentals”
of the standard, he said. The group will also work on options
for toughening oversight of lenders whose failure could roil
domestic markets, he said.  The so-called liquidity coverage ratio is part of an
overhaul of bank regulation, known as Basel III, that was agreed
on by the committee to avoid a repeat of the events that led to
the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. It would
require lenders to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a
30-day credit squeeze.  The LCR plans have been attacked by some governments and
banks as overly restrictive as few assets other than sovereign
debt would be recognized as highly liquid.  The Association for Financial Markets in Europe has said
that the measure may make it harder for lenders to spread their
risks, so making them more vulnerable in a crisis, while also
forcing them to curb some lending.  The measures would mark an extension of an agreement last
year by the Group of 20 countries to impose capital surcharges
and tougher oversight on lenders, known as G-SIFIs, whose
failure would threaten global stability.  For more, click here.  Broker-Dealer Audits to Intensify Under U.S. Regulator Proposal  Broker-dealers and public companies would be subject to
stricter audits that probe relationships with subsidiaries,
shareholders and executive officers for any hint of manipulation
or fraud under new standards proposed by the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board.  Under the plan, auditors would also dig into executive
compensation agreements and “significant unusual transactions”
-- those that seem outside a company’s normal course of business
-- for signs of the types of abuses that led to corporate
financial failures involving  Enron (ENRNQ)  Corp.,  WorldCom Group (WCOEQ)  and
others, according to Bloomberg’s Financial Regulation
newsletter.  The plan calls for penalties -- including potential fines
and disbarment -- for auditors who fail to comply. The new
standards would apply to broker-dealers because the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the most
significant financial regulatory reform law since the Great
Depression, gave the PCAOB oversight of broker-dealer auditors.  The new standards would be part of the audits that
registered financial institutions are required to file each year
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  “Related parties” are the chief focus of the proposal,
and can include subsidiaries, executives, shareholders or
relatives tied to the company. The goal of the plan, which the
PCAOB opened to public comment last week, is to strengthen audit
standards so they can better expose transactions designed to
hide fraud.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Greece Pushes Through Debt Swap as Euro Chiefs Ready Rescue  Greece pushed through the biggest sovereign restructuring
in history after getting private investors to forgive more than
100 billion euros ($132 billion) of debt, opening the way for a
second bailout.  Euro-region finance ministers agreed on a conference call
that with the swap Greece had met the terms for a 130 billion-
euro rescue package designed to prevent a collapse of the
economy. Ministers freed up 35.5 billion euros in payments and
interest for bondholders, with a decision on the balance of the
bailout funds to be made at a March 12 meeting in Brussels.  Officials from the  International Swaps and Derivatives
Association  called a meeting March 9 to consider a “potential
credit event” relating to Greece, while Fitch Ratings cut the
nation’s long-term foreign and local currency issuer default
ratings to “Restricted Default.”  The goal of the exchange was to reduce the 206 billion
euros of privately-held Greek debt by 53.5 percent. Even with
the restructuring almost completed, Greece faces hurdles.
Europe’s most indebted nation will be saddled with borrowings
equivalent to 120.5 percent of gross domestic product by 2020
under current targets.  For more, click here, and click here.  Bank of Scotland Censured for Failings, Won’t Get FSA Fine  Bank of Scotland Plc was censured by the U.K.’s finance
regulator for “very serious misconduct” at its corporate
division that led to it getting a government bailout during the
financial crisis.  The bank, which was part of HBOS Plc until the parent
company was bought by  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  in 2009, won’t be
fined by the U.K. Financial Services Authority because it
received taxpayer money, the regulator said in an e-mailed
 statement  March 9. Individuals may still face enforcement
action, the agency said.  Bank of Scotland took on too much risk over a three-year
period with “highly concentrated exposures to property and to
significant large borrowers,” the FSA said. The bank’s strategy
focused too highly on revenue and it didn’t have appropriate
systems and controls for its level of risk, the regulator found.  Lloyds cooperated fully with the FSA’s investigation, the
London-based bank said in a statement March 9.  The former corporate banking unit provided loans and equity
in management buyouts. HBOS Plc’s assets more than doubled to
681 billion pounds from 2001 to 2008. About 40 percent of the
bank’s 117 billion-pound corporate loan book was allocated to
real estate and commercial property. Lloyds’s acquisition of
HBOS, Britain’s biggest mortgage lender at the time, led to the
bank needing a bailout valued at more than 20 billion pounds.  Managers at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  were heavily
criticized by the FSA in its December report into the bank’s
near collapse in 2008 following its takeover of ABN Amro Holding
NV.  EU’s Almunia Close to Changing Bailout Terms for Commerzbank  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  is “close” to a deal with  European Union (CBK) 
regulators on changing the terms of approval for its bailout, EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said.  Almunia told reporters in Brussels that he was discussing
what other conditions can compensate for the EU’s request for
the bank to sell its Eurohypo unit.  Almunia also said there is a high probability that the
regulator will appeal an EU court ruling concerning aid for  ING
Groep NV. (INGA)   U.S. SEC Probes Whether Exchanges Favor Bigger Firms, FT Reports  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has started a
probe into whether exchanges give advantage to large trading
companies over smaller companies, the Financial Times reported,
citing unidentified people familiar with the inquiry.  The investigation followed a study into how exchange
operators manage conflicts of interest with  hedge funds , high
frequency trading groups, banks and asset managers, the FT said,
citing the people.  ASIC Declines to Probe Directors in Bribery Case at RBA Units  Australia’s main stock market regulator said it won’t
conduct a formal investigation of company directors involved in
a federal bribery probe at note-printing units of the central
bank.  The Australian Securities & Investments Commission
confirmed it received material from the Australian Federal
Police relating to bribery allegations at Securency
International Pty and Note Printing Australia Ltd.  “ASIC considers a range of factors when deciding to
investigate and possibly take enforcement action,” the
regulator said in a statement on its website. “ASIC has
reviewed this material from the AFP” and “has decided not to
proceed to a formal investigation.”  Securency, which is half-owned by the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia, and Note Printing Australia, which is fully owned by
the central bank, and seven people who worked at the companies,
face federal bribery charges over payments allegedly made in
Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam to secure banknote printing
contracts. It’s the first time anyone’s been prosecuted under
anti-bribery laws enacted in Australia in 2000.  The RBA declined to immediately comment on the ASIC
statement.  ASIC said it wouldn’t provide any additional comments
beyond its statement.  Courts  Man Who Ran Britain’s Biggest Ponzi Scheme Jailed for 14 Years  A man who admitted running the largest Ponzi scheme in
British history, defrauding investors of more than 115 million
pounds ($182 million), was sentenced to 14 years and six months
in prison, prosecutors said.  Kautilya Nandan Pruthi pleaded guilty to defrauding around
800 investors over a three-year period until November 2008.  His associates, John Anderson and Kenneth Peacock, were
found guilty March 8 for their part in the fraud and each jailed
for 18 months, the Press Association reported.  The trio defrauded investors by offering monthly returns of
as much as 13 percent. The scheme was marketed as a fund
investing in high-interest loans to distressed trading companies
involved in importing and exporting goods.  Pruthi spent the proceeds on London property and luxury
cars, according to the City of London Police, which investigated
the case after it was referred to them by the Financial Services
Authority in 2009.  The prosecution service had no information on the men’s
lawyers to contact for comment on the verdict.  EU Sees ‘Limited’ Effects of Court Ruling on ING’s Bailout Terms  ING Groep NV’s victory in a court case on the European
Union’s terms of its state bailout will have “limited”
consequences for reviews of other bank rescues, European Union
antitrust chief Joaquin Almunia told reporters today.  There is a “high probability” that regulators would
appeal the ruling, Almunia said.  The EU’s General Court said the European Commission wrongly
considered a revision of repayment terms as 2 billion euros
($2.6 billion) of additional aid to ING on top of 10 billion
euros it received in 2008. The court struck down part of the
EU’s decision, which forces regulators to re-open their
assessment of part of the Dutch government’s bailout to the
bank.  EU governments spent 1.6 trillion euros to shore up banks
from 2008 to 2010 amid the financial crisis that followed the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., according to the
commission, most of that in loan guarantees and fresh capital.
The EU must approve large state subsidies and can impose
conditions on the aid.  ING is still studying the judgment and its consequences,
Raymond Vermeulen, spokesman of the Amsterdam-based bank, said
in an interview today. He declined to comment on Almunia’s
statement.  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Allan Meltzer Discusses His Book ‘Why Capitalism?’  Allan Meltzer , a professor at Carnegie Mellon University,
talked about the impact of regulations on fairness and growth,
as well other topics including central banks, the Greek debt
crisis and his book “Why Capitalism?”  He spoke with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday.”  For the video, click here.  German Banks Slowly Getting Healthy, Bafin’s Koenig Tells FAS  Germany’s banks are slowly regaining their health, Elke
Koenig, president of German financial regulator Bafin, said in
an interview with the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung.  “They’re slowly becoming healthy, but the risk of
contagion remains high,” Koenig told the newspaper. Asked what
would happen if a foreign bank collapsed, she said her agency is
“optimistic that the German banks are prepared for nearly all
imaginable scenarios.”  Comings and Goings  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Executives Will See Pay Cuts in 2012  Top executives at  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  will receive
reduced compensation as their regulator continues to cut pay and
bonuses at the government-owned finance companies.  The 2012 pay program for the government-owned companies
eliminates bonuses and establishes a target for chief executive
officer pay at $500,000, the Federal Housing Finance Agency
announced March 9. With the changes, total compensation for top
executives has been reduced by almost 75 percent since the
companies were taken under government control in 2008.  The number of senior executives has been reduced from 91 in
2008 to 70, the FHFA reported.  Last month, the U.S. Senate moved to ban executive bonuses
at  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , voting 96-3 to approve a measure
introduced after the FHFA approved nearly $13 million in bonuses
to 10 executives.  Ranjit Ajit Singh to Head Malaysia Securities Commission  Ranjit Ajit Singh was appointed chairman of the Securities
Commission of Malaysia, replacing Zarinah Anwar.  Ranjit’s appointment will take effect April 1, the day
after Zarinah’s term ends, according to a statement posted on
the commission’s  website . Ranjit has served the regulatory body
since 1994, according to the statement. He is now the
commission’s managing director and executive director, market
oversight, according to its  website .  Nik Ramlah Mahmood, the current managing director and
executive director, enforcement, will be appointed deputy chief
executive, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 