-- Titanic Discoverer Was on Secret Navy Mission: Interview
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   C l a s h
-- 2012-03-12T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/titanic-discoverer-ballard-had-secret-navy-mission-interview.html
This spring, it will be 100 years
since the Titanic sank on its maiden voyage from Britain to  New
York .  When oceanographer Robert Ballard found the Titanic wreck
12,450 feet beneath the North Atlantic in 1985, most people
didn’t realize what his mission was.  “The U.S. had just signed the SALT Treaty and was looking
at disposing of nuclear weapons in the ocean,” says Ballard.
“The Navy wanted us to check on two sunken nuclear submarines
to see if they were making funny-looking fish. We didn’t want
the Russians to know, so Titanic became our cover.”  Titanic was also part of Ballard’s deal: If he surveyed the
subs within the allotted time, he had the remaining days to
search for the luxury liner.  Since that epic discovery, Ballard, 69, has gone on to find
other major wrecks: the German battleship Bismarck (1989), the
U.S. carrier Yorktown (1998) -- even President  John F. Kennedy ’s
PT-109 (2002). Like it or not, Ballard always will be defined by
the Titanic.  I recently visited the explorer at his office in Mystic,
 Connecticut . He has a good sense of humor, at one point telling
me that the Beatles’ “Yellow Submarine” is about amphetamine
capsules, not giant hulks of metal.  Captain’s Error  Clash: What do you think about Titanic’s 100th anniversary
on April 15?  Ballard: I’m looking forward to it being over (laughs),
though I’m glad  Belfast  is embracing it. That community once was
the epicenter of great ocean vessels. They built the White Star
liners for 50 years. After Titanic, they went silent. There is
no reason to be ashamed. (Titanic’s sinking) was the captain’s
error. It had nothing to do with the ship. It’s like when an
airplane goes into a mountain and they say, “bad aluminum.”  Clash: Do you consider Titanic your most important
discovery?  Ballard: The hydrothermal vents in the Atlantic and the
perfectly preserved ancient shipwrecks in the  Black Sea  are my
most significant discoveries. With the vents, we didn’t know
they existed. The Black Sea is the most amazing museum of human
history because of its unique preservation by anoxic waters.
People often ask, “What are you going to discover next?” I
say, “You don’t understand. I can’t tell you.”  Tracking Debris  Clash: How did you become interested in the Titanic?  Ballard: I’m not a Titanic groupie. There was this “ Mount
Everest ” that hadn’t been scaled, but in our world (oceans).
Other teams had used sonar to scan the bottom for big
signatures, say in the shape of a ship. While investigating the
two sub wrecks, we found long debris trails because the hulls
had imploded. I thought the Titanic had done something similar
and would leave a trail. So I surveyed a wider area with an
emphasis on finding spread out, smaller debris.  Clash: Take us back to Sept. 1, 1985.  Ballard: I couldn’t sleep, so I was reading. It was 2 a.m.,
and nobody should be coming up. Suddenly, there’s a knock on my
cabin door, and it’s the cook. He said the guys think you need
to come down. I sensed something was happening, so I flew out of
my bunk.  Somber Mood  Initially, they were seeing debris on the camera. But the
moment I bolted in, the ROV (remotely operated vehicle) went
over the boiler. We had a picture of the Titanic’s boiler on the
wall, so everyone did a double-take. I think my exact words
were, “The sucker really exists!” Then someone made the
comment, “She sinks in 20 minutes,” because Titanic sank at
2:20 a.m. The mood suddenly went somber. There was this duality:
as a professional, “Got it”; as a human, “Oh my God, they’re
here.”  Clash: You went down later, for a first-hand peek in a
submersible.  Ballard: Yes. At the bottom, we came to this wall of mud,
so we went around it. In the deep sea, you can see only 30 feet.
As we turned the corner, though, we came upon a 120-foot wall of
steel. Imagine with a flashlight you come upon the walls of
Troy. As we began to rise, we started picking up the ship’s
portholes. Our light was bouncing off of them. It was like eyes
looking at us --symbolically, the people who had perished.  Clash: Commercial Titanic dives now are routine -- Deep
Ocean Expeditions  charges $60,000 -- and souvenirs are salvaged.
Thoughts?  Yellow Smacks  Ballard: When I went down in 2004, I was almost apologetic
that I had found her. The submersibles, like cumbersome
elephants, have done a lot of damage, clear when you compare
photo mosaics from 1985 with today. The hull is rust brown. When
you hit it, it knocks the rust off and exposes new surface --
yellow. There are yellow smacks all over the ship. The bridge is
a shrine loaded with plaques. As for salvage, I have no problem
with people visiting, but you don’t go to Gettysburg with a
shovel. You don’t take belt buckles off the  Arizona . I have no
Titanic artifacts, nor do I want any. It’s about respect.  Plunging Bow  Clash: Some argue that the Titanic is deteriorating quickly
and soon will be gone.  Ballard: I have discovered close to 100 wrecks, including
Iron Age vessels dating to 750 B.C. When you put metal in the
ocean, it begins to rust and develop a crust. Initially, there’s
rapid attack. Then it becomes stable. The comment that the
Titanic is quickly deteriorating is against science.  James
Cameron ’s work has shown that much of the bow is still there. It
snowplowed deep in the seafloor where the environment is anoxic.
There’s no circulation, no oxidation -- and so excellent
preservation.  Clash: What do you think of “Titanic,” which won 11
Academy Awards?  Ballard: I love “Titanic.” Jim showed me what a beautiful
lady she was when she first sailed.  (James M. Clash writes on adventure for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James M. Clash, in New York, at  jclash@explorers.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 