-- Mitsui Fudosan Aims to Triple Private REIT Assets from Pension Fund Demand
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-03-12T02:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/mitsui-fudosan-aims-to-triple-private-reit-assets-from-pension-fund-demand.html
Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801) ,  Japan ’s biggest
developer by sales, said it plans to triple the size of its
private real estate investment trust in three years as the
company seeks to tap Japanese pension funds.  Mitsui Fudosan Investment Advisors Inc., an asset
management unit of the developer, plans to increase the private
REIT to 200 billion yen ($2.4 billion) in three years from 76
billion yen, said Akira Ikeda, a managing director at the Tokyo-
based company. The private REIT drew about 40 institutional
investors including banks, insurers and pension funds, he said.  Mitsui Fudosan joins  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) , Japan’s second-
biggest developer, and  Nomura Real Estate Holdings Inc. (3231)  in
building up their private REITs to attract Japanese pensions
seeking to diversify their assets. A total of 91.8 billion yen
of share sales by Japanese REITs have already been announced
this year, according to Deutsche Securities Inc.  “We aim to tap into investors who haven’t invested in real
estate due to a lack of suitable investment products,” Ikeda
said in an interview in  Tokyo . “The competition will certainly
get tough, but what is more important is that we will be able to
build a private REIT market as an investment category through
competition.”  Mitsui’s smaller rival Nomura Real Estate, which set up
Japan’s first private REIT, plans to add eight buildings to its
fund to double its size of the trust to 40 billion yen, the
company said last week.  More Fundraising  The companies are seeking to expand their asset size as
publicly-traded REITs are also boosting investments by selling
shares or planning initial stock offerings.  Japanese REITs may double the amount of capital they raise
through share sales this year, selling as much as 500 billion
yen worth of stock in 2012, compared with the 223.8 billion yen
they sold last year, said  Yoji Otani , an analyst at Deutsche
Securities in Tokyo.  Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP) , a unit of the Government
of Singapore Investment Corp., is preparing an initial public
offering of its Japanese warehouse assets that may raise about
$1 billion, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Japan’s property trust market, which includes both private
funds and REITs, reached 17.8 trillion yen as of December,
according STB Research Institute Co. The REIT market amounted to
8.3 trillion yen, while private funds manage about 14.9 trillion
yen of properties, it said.  Given the size of real estate investment market, Japan’s
private REIT market has the potential to grow to about 2
trillion yen to 3 trillion yen, Ikeda said.  “Investor base is likely to increase, so we can still
manage to expand even as some fundraising from REITs are
expected,” Ikeda said.  Mitsui Fudosan’s open-ended fund targets a return of about
4 percent with a loan-to-value ratio of 40 percent, according to
the company. Rental apartments account for 35 percent of the
private REIT, while commercial properties make up 30 percent and
office buildings add about 27 percent, the company said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  