-- Japanese Stock Futures Rise on Greek Optimism; BOJ, Fed Meet
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-03-12T23:22:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/japan-stock-futures-rise-on-greek-optimism-boj-federal-reserve-meetings.html
Japanese  stock   futures  rose amid
optimism euro-area finance chiefs will complete a second Greek
bailout this week, boosting demand for riskier assets. Trading
of Asian equities may be limited ahead of policy announcements
by the Bank of Japan and the  Federal Reserve  today.  American depositary receipts of  Canon Inc. (7751) , a Japanese
camera maker that gets 31 percent of its revenue in Europe, rose
0.4 percent from the closing share price in Tokyo. Shares of
Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. may be active as Japan’s third-
largest shipping firm by market value prepares to start joint
shipping services with other cargo lines. Australian stocks
rose, led by mining company Mineral Deposits Ltd.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
June closed at 9,865 in Chicago yesterday, up from 9,800 in
Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 9,850 in Osaka
at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.6
percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index advanced 0.2 percent
in Wellington.  “It seems like the Greek bond deal is going through; that
issue is off the table, at least for the time being,” said
 Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of investment markets
research at Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which
oversees about $150 billion. “I wouldn’t expect much out of the
BOJ, and obviously people will wait and see what the Fed says.”  Greek Bailout  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  rose less than
0.1 percent today. The index was little changed in  New York 
yesterday. Euro-area finance ministers gather in Brussels to
sign off on a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) second package for
Greece as they focus on Spain’s budget-cutting efforts and
Portugal’s aid program.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads
the group of euro-region finance ministers, said he had “no
doubt” that the package would be approved and he expected a
final decision on March 14.  The Bank of Japan is ending a two-day meeting today. The
central bank on Feb. 14 surprised the market by increasing its
government bond purchase program and setting an inflation goal
of 1 percent, weakening the yen and boosting stocks.  The Federal Reserve is also wrapping up a policy meeting
today. The Wall Street Journal last week reported the Fed is
considering a strategy that would allow it to undertake another
round of bond buying, while lowering the risk of inflation.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  gained 11 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 9 percent advance by the  S&P
500  and an 8.3 percent increase by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 14.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.1 times for the S&P 500
and 11 times for the Stoxx 600.  Chinese Stocks  Tudou Holdings Ltd. soared to a record in New York, driving
gains in Chinese U.S.-listed Internet shares, on plans by Youku
Inc. to acquire the nation’s second-largest video sharing
website in a $1 billion deal. The Bloomberg China-US 55 index of
the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S. gained 0.3 percent to
a one-week high of 104.52 in New York.  Crude for April delivery declined 1 percent to settle at
$106.34 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  