-- Japan Cabinet’s Ishida Doesn’t Expect More Central Bank Easing Tomorrow
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-03-12T05:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/japan-cabinet-s-ishida-doesn-t-expect-more-bank-of-japan-easing-tomorrow.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  is unlikely to
unveil additional economic stimulus tomorrow after expanding
monetary stimulus in February, said Katsuyuki Ishida, who
attended last month’s meeting as a government representative.  “I doubt this time will be like the last,” Ishida, vice
cabinet minister for economic policy, said in an interview today
in  Tokyo . “My understanding is that there will probably be more
easing ahead if the policies don’t produce results.”  Ishida’s comments indicate less political pressure on the
central bank this month and 12 of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News expect Governor Masaaki Shirakawa to keep
monetary policy unchanged. The BOJ unexpectedly expanded its
asset purchase program by 10 trillion yen ($122 billion) and set
an inflation goal of 1 percent last month, a move triggered by
politicians’ calls for a more aggressive stance to spur the
economy, according to analysts.  The BOJ “has stepped up toward its goal” of ending
deflation, said Ishida, a member of a ruling  Democratic Party  of
 Japan  lawmaker group that has called on the BOJ to take more
aggressive measures in fighting deflation. “I want them to
achieve their goal as soon as possible.”  Economic Policy Minister Motohisa Furukawa and his deputies
told the central bank prior to the monetary policy meeting last
month that it needed to take additional steps to end falling
prices, Ishida said. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse
AG said political pressure was a key factor in causing the
central bank to add stimulus on Feb. 14.  The BOJ will probably conclude tomorrow that it needs to
monitor the impact of its monetary stimulus as the state of
financial markets is improving, while also watching out for  oil
prices  and the European debt crisis, said Ishida, 57.  Differing Views  Some analysts share a different view. The Bank of Japan
will expand monetary stimulus tomorrow to show a commitment to
ending deflation, according to Hiromichi Shirakawa, chief Japan
economist at Credit Suisse and the only analyst who predicted
last month’s easing.  Recent economic reports indicate that Japan’s economy is
rebounding from a contraction last quarter.  Machinery orders 
rose 3.4 percent in January, a report showed today, adding to
the recent positive  industrial production  and retail sales data
which all beat economists estimates.  The yen traded at 82.37 against the dollar as of 1:58 p.m.
in Tokyo, after touching 82.65 last week, the highest since
April 27. The yen’s decline from a postwar high of 75.35 yen
helped the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  touch 10,000 last week for
the first time since August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  