-- Commodities Drop on Chinese Trade Deficit; U.S. Stocks Are Little Changed
-- B y   R o b   V e r d o n c k   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2012-03-12T20:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/japan-stocks-climb-on-machinery-orders-as-oil-new-zealand-dollar-retreat.html
Commodities snapped a three-day
advance and the yuan weakened after Chinese  exports  grew at a
slower pace than forecast, fueling concern about the global
economy. U.S. stocks and Treasuries ended little changed.  The S&P GSCI Index of raw materials lost 0.4 percent as of
4:15 p.m. in New York and oil dropped 1 percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,371.09, while
Exxon Mobil Corp. and Merck & Co. led the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average (INDU)  up 37.69 points to 12,959.71. Ten-year Treasury note
yields added less than one basis point to 2.03 percent. The yen
strengthened against 12 of its 16 most-traded peers. The euro
climbed 0.3 percent to $1.3158.  China weakened its daily fixing for the yuan by the most
since August 2010 after reporting the biggest trade deficit in
at least 22 years on March 10, sapping optimism that was spurred
last week by stronger-than-forecast jobs data in the U.S.
European finance ministers are meeting in Brussels today to
complete the 130 billion-euro ($170 billion) aid package for
 Greece  and discuss  Spain ’s budget-cutting efforts.  “Commodity market watchers have cautioned quite some time
ago that ‘as goes  China  so do commodities,’” Jon Nadler, an
analyst at Kitco Inc. in  Montreal , wrote in a note today. “When
combined with the data concerning that country’s factory output
and consumer retail activity, the conclusion that China is
indeed experiencing notable difficulties is obviously not very
hard to draw.”  Oil Declines  Sixteen of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI index
declined. Oil fell 1 percent to $106.34 a barrel, natural gas
declined 2.4 percent to settle at a 10-year low of $2.269 per
million British thermal units and copper dropped 0.5 percent to
$3.8375 a pound.  Hedge funds  last week reduced bets on higher commodity
prices for the first time in almost two months after China cut
its growth target, just as prices rallied on signs the  U.S.
economy  is improving and Greece is containing its debt crisis.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  cut China’s economic growth target for
2012 to 7.5 percent, compared with the median estimate of
economists for a 2.2 percent expansion in the U.S., according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. That would be the smallest gap since
the Internet boom in 2000, the data show.  Money managers reduced combined bullish positions across 18
U.S. futures and options by 1.1 percent to 1.17 million
contracts in the week ended March 6, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission data show. Investors cut bets on copper by the most
in two months and those on oil by the most since December.  China Exports  China uses more copper and energy than any other nation and
exports from China rose 18.4 percent last month from a year
earlier, while imports gained 39.6 percent. Analysts forecast a
31.1 percent increase in overseas sales and that inbound
shipments would rise 31.8 percent, based on estimates from
Bloomberg News surveys.  The yuan weakened to 6.3266 per dollar for the biggest drop
since January. The daily  reference rate  was set 0.33 percent
lower at 6.3282 per dollar. The currency can move 0.5 percent
either side of the fixing.  About 5.2 billion shares changed hands on all U.S.
exchanges today, the slowest trading session of the year. The
 Federal Reserve ’s policy committee will release its statement on
 interest rates  and the economic outlook tomorrow at 2:15 p.m.
Washington time.  Gauges of commodity, energy and financial shares fell at
least 0.3 percent for the biggest declines among  10 groups  in
the  S&P 500  while utilities, consumer staples and phone
companies had the best gains. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Bank of
America Corp. lost at least 0.8 percent to pace declines among
the biggest  banks .  Stress Tests  Investors may be disappointed by how U.S. banks perform in
Federal Reserve stress tests as examiners expect consumer-loan
losses to surpass the industry’s estimates if there’s another
severe recession, analysts say.  The Fed generally has predicted firms would suffer greater
losses on mortgages and credit cards than what banks estimated
in capital plans submitted in January, two people with knowledge
of the situation said last week, without identifying specific
firms. The divergence may endanger some of the $9 billion in
dividend increases and share buybacks analysts estimate may be
announced after the Fed releases results this week.  The S&P GSCI Total Return Index of raw materials had
rallied 8.8 percent in 2012 through last week, while the S&P 500
had climbed 9 percent in its best start to a year since 1998.  “It’s been a much better start to the year than most
investors had expected,” Henrik Drusebjerg, a Copenhagen-based
strategist at Nordea Bank AB who helps oversee $230 billion,
said in an interview today. “What most of us had expected as a
return for the whole year has come around in two months. If
there’s anything indicating that global growth is having
problems, people will be very quick to take some profits.”  Dow Theory   Transportation and industrial shares are diverging from the
rest of the U.S. market, a signal that equity investors are
starting to agree with what the  bond market  already knows: this
economic recovery will remain sluggish for months to come.  The  Dow Jones Transportation Average (TRAN)  fell 3.9 percent from
its six-month high on Feb. 3 through March 9, while the Dow
Jones Industrial Average added 0.5 percent. The gauge of 20
shipping companies from FedEx Corp. to United Continental
Holdings Inc. peaked before the rest of the market when the
technology bubble popped in 2000 and began slipping into a  bear
market  three months before broader benchmark indexes in 2007.  Retail sales in the U.S. increased 1.1 percent in February,
the most in five months, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before Commerce Department
figures due tomorrow. Data on March 9 showed nonfarm payrolls
increased by 227,000 in February after rising by a revised
284,000 the prior month. The  unemployment rate  held at a three-
year low of 8.3 percent.  European Shares  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.2 percent. Temenos
Group AG dropped 4.9 percent after the company terminated merger
talks with Misys Plc. Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA sank 5
percent after its biggest investor reached an agreement with
banks that hold part of its stake as collateral on a loan.
Mining companies and banks fell more than 1.2 percent for the
largest declines of the 19 industries in the Stoxx Europe 600
Index.  The cost of insuring European sovereign bonds rose for a
second day, with the Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of
credit-default swaps on 15 governments climbing 4.4 basis points
to an eight-week high of almost 355.75.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.8 percent as stocks
in  Argentina , the  Czech Republic  and  Taiwan  led declines that
overshadowed gains in Indian shares after policy makers
unexpectedly cut  reserve requirements  for lenders. The BSE India
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, gained 0.5 percent after the central
bank on March 9 reduced the amount of deposits lenders need to
set aside as reserves to ease a cash squeeze in the banking
system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Verdonck in London at 
 rverdonck@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  