-- Jeremy Hill of JPMorgan Dies at 43 of Disease He Helped Fight
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-03-13T14:17:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/jeremy-hill-of-jpmorgan-in-new-york-dies-at-43-of-disease-he-helped-fight.html
Jeremy Hill, a managing director at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. who gave his time and money to support
young people with cancer before being diagnosed with an advanced
case of it himself, has died. He was 43.  Hill, who was co-head of global equity finance, a unit
within the New York-based bank’s Prime Brokerage business, died
March 7 of melanoma, the most lethal form of skin cancer,
according to a death notice in the  New York  Times.  A New Zealander who lived in Manhattan, he served on the
board of the  SAMFund , a Boston-based nonprofit group that offers
grants to help young adults transition to life after cancer.  Its  executive director , Samantha Eisenstein Watson,
contacted Hill early in 2007 after he sent a $500 donation, she
said yesterday in an interview. Though he had been “touched in
his own life” by family members and friends who had cancer,
Watson recalled, Hill wrote in his first e-mail to her that he
hadn’t before considered the “financial ramifications” of
cancer on young people.  “He just had this way of being able to put himself in
other people’s shoes,” Watson said.  In fact, Hill had undergone treatment for a skin growth
that raised the prospect of cancer, “but his level of
involvement and his graciousness in giving was way outsized to
the scare that he experienced very briefly in that era,”
according to Greg Levi, a friend and former classmate at the
University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business.  Joined Second Board  By the time Hill received his more serious diagnosis, he
was involved with both the SAMFund and the NYU Cancer Institute
at New York University Langone Medical Center in  New York City .
He was named to the Cancer Institute’s  advisory board  in 2010.  The board includes billionaires Kenneth G. Langone, co-
founder of Home Depot Inc., and Thomas H. Lee, the financier who
heads New York-based Lee Equity Partners LLC. The goal of the
institute is to “discover the origins of human cancer” and
“eradicate the personal and societal burden” of the disease,
according to its  website .  Lori Fink, chairman of the board of advisers, said
yesterday in an interview that when she met Hill in 2010, he
believed his own cancer scare was behind him.  “He felt he had his life ahead of him, this had been taken
care of, and he wanted to be an upstanding citizen and make a
difference,” Fink said. Her husband, Laurence D. Fink, chief
executive officer of BlackRock Inc., the world’s biggest asset
manager, is co-chairman of the hospital’s  board of trustees .  ‘Private Person’  Also in 2010, Hill hosted -- and was guest bartender at --
a SAMFund fundraiser at the Public House bar and restaurant in
 Manhattan . In addition to raising money, the event introduced
the group to new supporters from  Wall Street  and the New York
metropolitan area, Watson said.  Watson said she was among the select group of people with
whom Hill shared news of his diagnosis and battle.  “An incredibly private person, he trusted me with his
story and I was grateful and determined to support him as best I
could,” Watson wrote March 8 in a blog  posting . She said she
traveled to New York the week before to see him one final time.  Jeremy Michael Hill was born on Nov. 6, 1968, according to
an  obituary  in the New Zealand Herald. Survivors include his
mother, Maureen, and two brothers, Antony and Tim. His father,
Tom, predeceased him, according to death notices in the New York
Times.  Bear Stearns  He earned a bachelor of commerce degree from the University
of Auckland and a master’s degree in business administration
from the University of Chicago’s  Booth School of Business ,
according to the NYU Cancer Institute.  Prior to  JPMorgan (JPM) , Hill was a senior managing director and
global head of equity finance at Bear Stearns Cos., according to
the NYU Cancer Institute. JPMorgan acquired Bear Stearns in
2008. He worked at the two banks for a combined 17 years,
Elizabeth Seymour, a JPMorgan spokeswoman, said.  “Jeremy was a leader in our Prime Brokerage business,”
Hill’s management team said in a March 8 memo to the staff. “He
was a valued colleague, talented professional and dear friend.
We will miss him immensely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  