-- John Wiley, AZ Electronic, Rocket-Pocket Lawyers: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-03-12T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/john-wiley-az-electronic-rocket-pocket-lawyers-intellectual-property.html
John Wiley & Sons Ltd. (JW/A) , a publisher
of technical and scientific journals, sued two law firms for
copyright infringement.  The suits, filed in federal court in Chicago and  Minnesota ,
claim the firms infringed the copyrights to articles from
Wiley’s technical publications. The infringement occurred,
according to the complaints, because the firms made copies of
these articles without authorization and submitted them to the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  Patent applicants submit examples of what is known as
“prior art” as a means to demonstrate the invention for which
patent protection is sought is truly innovative. Wiley says this
“mere multiplication of copies for the for-profit business
purposes” of the law firms “is not privileged under the law.”  The law firms are handling the patent applications “for
the profit of themselves and their clients” and are using the
copyright-protected content “as part of that profit-making
activity without due compensation” to the publisher, Wiley
claims.  Wiley says it publishes, sells and distributes its content
and licenses it “for precisely these types of use.” It says
that even though it is “ready, willing and able” to license
the content to the law firms, none of them have acquired the
necessary licenses.  The firms that were sued are Schwegman Lundberg & Woessner
PA of  Minneapolis , and  Chicago ’s  McDonnell Boehnen Hulbert &
Berghoff LLP .  Mary Hirsch, spokeswoman for Schwegman Lundberg, said in an
e-mailed statement March 9 that her firm “is declining to
comment on the merits of the case until it has fully assessed
the lawsuit, but is grateful for the overwhelming support it has
received from the intellectual property community.”  Marcus J. Thymian  of McDonnell Boehnen said in a telephone
interview that his firm “is currently investigating the claims
asserted in the complaint. We are aware of a wider range of
support from the legal and technical communities, substantiating
the position that copies made for the purpose of submitting
references to the patent office constitutes a fair use.”  The case against the Minnesota firm is John Wiley & Sons
Ltd. v. Schwegman Lundberg & Woessner, 0:12-cv-00528-RHK-JJK,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota. The case against the
Chicago firm is John Wiley & Sons Ltd. v. McDonnell Boehnen
Hulbert & Berghoff LLP, 1:12-cv-01446, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  For more copyright news, click here.  Patents  AZ Electronic Units File Korean Patent Suit Against UP Chemical  AZ Electronic Materials SA (AZEM) , a Luxembourg-based maker of
specialty chemical materials for the electronics industry, sued
 Korea ’s  UP Chemical Company Ltd. (UPCCZ)  for patent infringement.  The suit, filed in Korean courts by two AZ units, related
to patents covering the perhydropolysilazane dielectric
technology used in the manufacture of semiconductors.  The complaint was filed in Seoul Central district Court, AZ
said in a statement, alleging that UP Chemical infringes Korean
patent 10-734301.  AZ asked the court for money damages and is seeking an
order barring future infringement, according to the company
statement.  U.K. Inventor Burns Patent, Says He Can’t Halt Theft of His IP  An inventor from Wales held a public burning of his U.K.
patent for color printing technology, saying it had become
worthless as big companies used his technology without
permission, having no fear of consequences for infringing a
small inventor’s  intellectual property , the U.K.’s Telegraph
 reported .  Michael Wilcox told the Telegraph that in addition to the
patent he destroyed, he is putting his other pending projects
into the garbage because “I know they will just be taken.”  The U.K.’s  SME Innovation Alliance , which supports small
and medium-sized technology ventures, has learned that many of
its members are halting projects on concern they can’t protect
their innovations from infringement, according to the Telegraph.  Members of the group now expect to reap benefits from their
inventions for only a short period before they’re infringed by
larger companies,  John Mitchell , who heads the organization,
told the Telegraph.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Rocket Lawyer Wants Ruling It Doesn’t Infringe Pocket Lawyer  Rocket Lawyer Inc. , a provider of referral services and
cooperative advertising services for lawyers, asked a federal
court in  San Francisco  to declare it’s not infringing trademarks
belonging to a company in Southern  California .  According to the complaint filed March 8,  Pocket Lawyer
Corp.  of Northridge, California, filed opposition to Rocket
Lawyer’s attempt to register its marks with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  Rocket Lawyer filed its trademark application in May 2010,
according to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office. Pocket Lawyer filed its first opposition in June 2011,
followed by a second in July.  The San Francisco-based company said it has also received a
cease-and-desist letter from Pocket Lawyer, demanding it cease
from all use of “Rocket Lawyer” and withdraw its pending
trademark application.  Rocket Lawyer asked the court to declare it’s not
infringing Pocket Lawyer’s trademarks, and it seeks awards of
attorney fees and litigation costs.  The company is represented by Lindsey B. Furtado and
Lawrence G. Townsend of San Francisco’s  Owen Wickersham &
Erickson PC .  Pocket Lawyer, a provider of pre-paid legal services,
didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Rocket Lawyer Inc., v. Pocket Lawyer Corp.,
3:12-cv-01155-JCS, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Francisco).  Cole Sued by Breast Buddies Founders Over Double Ribbon
Trademark  Kenneth Cole Productions Inc. (KCP) , the New York-based footwear
and accessories company, was sued for trademark infringement by
two  New Jersey  women who run websites for  Breast Buddies , an
organization aimed at promoting women’s health awareness.  According to the complaint filed March 7 in federal court
in  Newark , New Jersey, Cole is accused of using a double ribbon
design that infringes on a “double ribbon” design the two
women registered as a trademark in 2006 for Breast Buddies.  They said they discovered in November that Cole was using
double ribbons on its  www.awearness.com  website, and was
offering pins in that shape. These aren’t used by permission,
according to court papers.  Included in the case filing is a printout from the Cole
website showing the pin offered for sale.  According to the Cole
site, 10 percent of the profits from the sale of the $5 pin will
go to support the American Foundation for AIDS Research, and
 MTV ’s “Staying Alive” campaign.  The two women say they are damaged by Cole’s actions that
the New York company hasn’t quit selling and promoting products
with the double ribbon design despite being sent a cease-and-
desist notice.  They asked the court to order Cole to quit infringing the
trademark and for awards of money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Cole didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  The case is Cynthia Meehan V. Kenneth Cole Productions
Inc., 2:12-cv-01433-SRC-MAS, U.S. District Court, District of
New Jersey (Newark).  For more trademark news, click here.  IP Moves  Sheppard Mullin Hires Patent Litigator From Sidley Austin  Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP (1215L)  hired Edward V.
Anderson for its IP practice group, the Los Angeles-based firm
said in a statement.  Anderson , a patent litigator, joins from Chicago’s  Sidley &
Austin LLP (1110L) . Before that, he practiced at  San Jose , California’s
now-defunct Skjerven Morrill LLP.  He has represented clients in the computer, semiconductor,
telecommunications and software industries in disputes in
federal trial and appellate courts and before the U.S.
International Trade Commission.  Anderson has an undergraduate degree and a law degree from
 Stanford University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 