-- JPMorgan Chase’s Feroli Cuts U.S. Growth to 1.5% This Quarter
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-03-12T18:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/jpmorgan-chase-s-feroli-cuts-u-s-growth-to-1-5-this-quarter.html
Michael Feroli , chief U.S.
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said he cut his outlook for
growth during the first quarter to 1.5 percent from 2 percent
because of weak spending even as the labor market has improved.  “Slower productivity growth” is responsible for job gains
amid a drop in U.S. growth from 3 percent in the fourth quarter,
Feroli said today on Bloomberg Television’s “ Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “We have a fair amount of
spending data right now for the first quarter for consumers and
business investment. It is adding up to a softer number.”  Employers in the U.S. took on 227,000 workers in February,
completing the best six months for payroll growth since 2006,
Labor Department figures showed last week. U.S. growth is
expected to slow to 2.1 percent in the first quarter, according
to the average of 81 economists surveyed last month by Bloomberg
News.  The economy may see “probably an acceleration in the
second quarter if energy prices can level off,” Feroli said.
“If 1.5 percent were to persist, it would be something to worry
about. But it could be a hiccup, hopefully in the pattern of
better growth.”  Federal Reserve policy makers, who meet tomorrow, are
unlikely to start a third asset purchase program, known as
quantitative easing, in part because  core inflation , excluding
food and energy prices, is near 2 percent, Feroli said.  “I do not think we are going to get QE tomorrow,” Feroli
said. “Something people are not talking about enough is that
core inflation has stabilized pretty close to the Fed’s target.
That is not arguing for more accommodation.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Feb. 29 that the labor
market remains “far from normal” and repeated that the main
 interest rate  is likely to stay exceptionally low at least
through the end of 2014.  Trade will weigh on first quarter growth “more than we had
anticipated,” JPMorgan’s Daniel Silver said in a note.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  