-- Wynn Sued by Okada Over $800 Million Redemption Discount
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-03-13T19:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/kazuo-okada-files-counterclaim-in-federal-court-to-wynn-resorts-lawsuit.html
Japanese billionaire Kazuo Okada,
saying  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  is run by Chairman Steve Wynn as a
“personal fiefdom,” is challenging the redemption of his own
20 percent stake in the company at an $800 million discount.  Aruze USA, through which Okada invested in Wynn Resorts,
disputes that any redemption occurred because Wynn is legally
barred from redeeming the securities, lawyers for Okada and the
holding company said in a counterclaim filed yesterday in
federal court in Las Vegas.  Okada’s shares, which Wynn Resorts last month said it had
redeemed at a 30 percent discount because Okada was
“unsuitable,” were never subject to the redemption provision
in the company’s articles of incorporation, according to the
filing. Okada agreed to purchase Wynn Resorts stock before the
redemption provision became effective, according to the filing.  “Wynn Resorts, for all its accomplishments, is not a
corporation in any ordinary sense,” Okada’s lawyers said.
“Rather, Wynn Resorts’ flamboyant chairman, Mr. Wynn, has run
Wynn Resorts as a personal fiefdom, packing the board with
friends who do his personal bidding, and paying key executives
exorbitant amounts for their unwavering fealty.”  Wynn Resorts called the allegations “scurrilous” in a
statement today.  Escalating Clash  Yesterday’s filing is the latest in an escalating clash
between  Steve Wynn  and Okada, the man who helped bankroll Wynn
Resorts starting 12 years ago. Wynn Resorts accused Okada of
making improper payments to Philippines gaming officials leading
the board to declare Okada and certain affiliates “unsuitable
persons” for the company.  Okada accuses Wynn Resorts of breach of contract and its
chairman of racketeering, among other allegations. He seeks a
court order voiding the redemption of his shares, and
unspecified compensatory and punitive damages.  Wynn announced the redemption in February after releasing a
report by former Federal Bureau of Investigation director  Louis Freeh  alleging that Okada, his associates and companies made
three dozen improper payments to gambling officials. In a
conference call to explain the decision to oust Okada, Wynn
Resorts executives, including compliance committee head  Robert Miller , a former Nevada governor, said they needed to limit the
company’s risk of losing its gaming licenses.  No ‘Meaningful Denial’  “The Okada response fails to contain any meaningful denial
of the facts detailed in the Freeh Report or Governor Miller’s
conference call,” Wynn Resorts said in today’s statement.
“Wynn Resorts looks forward to having Mr. Okada’s actions and
the company’s response presented to and adjudicated in court.”  Wynn Resorts forcibly redeemed the stake held by Okada and
his Tokyo-based  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425)  at a 30 percent
discount to its then market price, the casino operator said last
month. Wynn has called for a special meeting of shareholders to
remove Okada as a director of Wynn.  Wynn filed its complaint against Okada Feb. 19, alleging
that Okada is developing two casinos and three hotels in  Manila 
and that he seeks to lure “high-limit, VIP gamblers” from
 China  in direct competition with Wynn’s casino in  Macau .
Construction on the Manila Bay casino resort started Jan. 26,
Wynn said in its complaint.  Videotaped Response  In a videotaped statement posted on Universal
Entertainment’s  website , Okada said Steve Wynn started
questioning Universal’s project in the Philippines last year,
suggesting that there must be something “inappropriate” about
it because he believed the  Philippines  is a corrupt country.  “I became suspicious when Steve Wynn suddenly changed his
attitude to question Universal’s investment in the Philippines
after he had long been supporting it behind the scenes,” Okada
said. “His attitude changed because I became suspicious
regarding the purpose and reason for the large donation made to
the University of Macau.”  Okada said he started to investigate his dealings with Wynn
including trying to find out how $120 million he provided for a
Macau gaming license in 2002 was used, alleging that the use had
been unclear and that no detailed records of it were kept.  Federal Court  Wynn’s lawsuit was filed in Nevada state court and removed
to federal court in Las Vegas, where Okada filed his answer and
counterclaims.  In his filing, Okada says that Steve Wynn knew about his
Philippines project as far back as 2007 and didn’t voice any
concerns about it.  The Las Vegas-based casino company has accused Okada of
giving more than $110,000 in payments and gifts to Philippines
officials, including chief gambling regulator Cristino Naguiat.
Okada said in the videotaped statement that it wasn’t correct
that these were gifts and that the Wynn board didn’t give him
the opportunity to explain before declaring him “unsuitable.”  Okada, the former vice chairman at Wynn Resorts, had filed
a petition in state court in  Clark County ,  Nevada , in January
for access to financial records. Okada opposed the company’s
HK$1 billion ($129 million) pledge in July 2011 to the
University of Macau Development Foundation.  In yesterday’s filing, Okada’s lawyer said “it was unclear
how the University of Macau would use the funds.”  ‘Wondered Why’  “Mr. Okada wondered why a wealthy university that sits on
government land and largely caters to non-Macau residents might
need or want such a large donation,” according to the filing.
“Mr. Okada, who is himself a significant philanthropist,
wondered whether such a donation actually benefits the people
who live in Macau.”  Nevada state court Judge Elizabeth Gonzalez at a hearing
March 8 in  Las Vegas  said Okada should get two additional pages
regarding the University of Macau donation. The judge rejected a
request to order Wynn to produce more papers from before the
company went public or documents regarding an amended
stockholder agreement that resulted from Steve Wynn’s divorce.  Okada said that the divorce cut Steve Wynn’s stake in Wynn
Resorts in half, making Okada the largest single shareholder.  The case is Wynn Resorts v. Kazuo Okada, 12-00400, U.S.
District Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas.)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  