-- MTN Halts Turkcell Talks to Resolve Iran Mobile License Dispute
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-03-12T16:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/mtn-halts-turkcell-talks-to-resolve-iran-mobile-license-dispute.html
MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,  Africa ’s largest
mobile-phone operator, said talks to resolve an Iranian license
dispute with  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  were halted because
of compensation demands and the threat of a U.S. lawsuit.  MTN plans to continue cooperating with an independent
investigation led by former U.K. judge Leonard Hoffmann into
allegations of corruption linked to the Iranian operating
license awarded in 2005, the Johannesburg-based company said.  “Talks between MTN and Turkcell have broken down as a
result of Turkcell’s extortionate demands for damages” and the
Istanbul-based competitor’s efforts to bring the case to court
in the U.S., MTN said today in a statement. Xolisa Vapi, an MTN
spokesman, declined to comment further when contacted by phone.
A Turkcell spokesman declined to comment.  MTN bought 49 percent of  Iran ’s second-largest mobile
operator, now named MTN Irancell, in 2005 after the country’s
telecommunications ministry ended talks on awarding the license
to Turkcell. Iran Electronic Development Co. holds the rest of
the operator.  The South African company said on Feb. 2 that Turkcell had
notified it of a possible lawsuit in the U.S. over allegations
MTN had made “improper payments” to unidentified Iranian and
South African government officials in 2004 and 2005 to secure a
license in Iran. MTN said today that Turkcell won’t cooperate
with MTN on the investigation Hoffmann is leading.  MTN Irancell contributed 11 billion rand ($1.5 billion) to
the South African company’s 121 billion-rand group revenue in
2011, MTN said on March 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  