-- Nigeria’s Naira Weakens Most in Two Months on Fuel Import Demand
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-03-12T16:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/naira-heads-for-lowest-in-month-on-higher-fuel-import-demand.html
Nigeria ’s naira weakened the most
in two months against the dollar on higher demand for the U.S.
currency as the state oil company and independent dealers made
gasoline import orders.  The currency of  Africa ’s largest oil producer retreated 0.6
percent to 158.225 per dollar as of 3:55 p.m. in Lagos, the
commercial capital, the biggest decline since Jan. 6, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Nigeria sold $150 million at a
foreign-currency auction today, with lenders buying the entire
amount on offer, the Abuja-based  Central Bank of Nigeria  said in
an e-mailed statement.  “In the current week, we expect demand pressure in the
market,” as the state oil company and refined petroleum
products importers “place orders to avert an impending fuel
scarcity,” Lagos-based Cowry Asset Management Ltd., said in an
e-mailed note to clients today.  President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s attempt in January to scrap
gasoline subsidies sparked a week-long general strike and
prompted parliamentary investigation into the spending. The
government is probably paying more than 2 trillion naira ($12.6
billion) to fuel importers to cover the difference between
market costs and state-regulated prices for last year, said
Farouk Lawan, chairman of a committee investigating the
discrepancies. The probe caused a drop in demand for foreign
currency to fund fuel imports, central bank Deputy Governor
Tunde Lemo said Feb. 7.  Fuel Tenders  Fuel retailers have resumed imports after a government
assurance they will receive refunds for selling at subsidized
prices, the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. said
on Feb. 23. Nigeria is revising its 2012 budget to include 888
billion naira in fuel subsidies as the spending plans put to
lawmakers in December did not make provision for subsidy, the
 Finance Ministry  said in a statement on Feb. 16.  The West African country, which relies on imports to meet
70 percent of its fuel needs because of inadequate refining
capacity, approved a tender for 3.57 million metric tons of
gasoline imports by 42 fuel retailers for the second quarter,
Reginald Stanley, executive secretary of the Petroleum Products
Pricing Regulatory Agency, said today in a statement published
in the Abuja-based Daily Trust newspaper.  Ghana ’s cedi appreciated less than 0.1 percent to 1.7180
per dollar, as of 3:55 p.m. in Accra, the nation’s capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  