-- Gaza Cease-Fire Agreed After 160 Rockets Fired From Enclave, MENA Reports
-- B y   S a u d   A b u   R a m a d a n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-03-13T02:34:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/netanyahu-says-israel-may-broaden-gaza-military-operation-amid-rocket-fire.html
Israel  and the Palestinians have
agreed to a cease-fire in Gaza, after militants fired more than
160 rockets from the coastal enclave and Israeli air strikes
killed at least 24 people, Egypt’s state-run  news agency  said.  The Middle East News Agency quoted an unnamed Egyptian
official saying that the truce went into effect at 1 a.m. local
time. Sirens warning of incoming rocket fire were heard in
southern Israel after the cease-fire was supposed to take
effect, the Israeli Ynet news website reported, citing
eyewitness accounts. It didn’t report whether rockets had
actually fallen.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told parliament
yesterday that the military “is ready to expand its operations
and continue them as necessary.”  This month’s bloodshed began with a March 9 Israeli air
strike on what the army said were two militants planning an
attack from the Egyptian-controlled Sinai, including Zuhir al-
Qaisi, head of the Popular Resistance Committees. The rocket
attacks and air strikes that followed have been the worst since
August, when eight Israelis were killed in an attack near the
resort of Eilat and at least 24 Palestinians died in subsequent
air raids.  In  New York , U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  joined
other members of the so-called Mideast Quartet yesterday in
expressing “serious concern” about the escalation. The group -
- composed of the U.S.,  United Nations ,  Russia  and the European
Union -- called on Israel and the Palestinians to “refrain from
provocative actions,” according to a statement following a
meeting at the United Nations.  ‘Limited Exchange’  “Israel is signaling that if you think you can escalate,
we can escalate much more,” said Dan Schueftan, director of
Haifa University’s National Security Studies Center. “It seems
to be a limited exchange,” said Schueftan, who spoke before
reports of a truce.  Israel’s short-term government bonds rose yesterday,
pushing yields lower for the first time in eight days, as demand
for the country’s safer assets increased amid violence in the
south.  The yield on the 3.5 percent notes due September 2013 fell
nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 2.63 percent,
the lowest since Feb. 29. The  TA-25 benchmark stock index 
dropped the most in almost one week, declining 1.1 percent.  Gaza health official Adham Abu Selmeya said seven people
were killed yesterday and 45 people injured. Israel disputed its
involvement in the death of one of those killed, saying its
aircraft weren’t active in the area where it was reported. The
 air force  targeted a number of militants, rocket-launching sites
and weapons storage facilities, the army said in an e-mailed
statement.  Islamic Jihad  Many of those killed in Gaza were members of Islamic Jihad,
a small militant group supported by  Iran  and considered a
terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and the European
Union. Israel said it holds Hamas, which rules Gaza, responsible
for all attacks emanating from the territory.  Four people have been wounded by about 160 rockets fired
into Israel since March 9, Israel police spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said. Palestinian rockets also hit two vehicles
delivering goods to Gaza at a border crossing point, Israeli
officials said.  In 2008, Israel entered Gaza during a three-week operation
in which at least 1,100 Palestinians and 12 Israelis were
killed.  “Hamas doesn’t want to repeat what happened in the 2008
war, because it knows very well that another large-scale Israeli
war on Gaza would damage its presence and it may lose power,”
Mkhaimar Abusada, a political scientist at Al-Azhar University
in Gaza City, said in a telephone interview. “Now Islamic Jihad
leads the resistance and considers itself the pioneer armed
wing.”  Schools Closed  Taher Nunu, a Hamas spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement on March 11 that his movement “is holding contacts
with various parties, including our Egyptian brothers, to end
the Israeli aggression upon our people.”  Schools in Israel’s southern towns and cities were ordered
yesterday to stay closed for a second day, affecting some
250,000 students, Rosenfeld said. Israel decided to reopen its
Kerem Shalom crossing to Gaza after shutting it briefly when it
came under fire from three mortars from the Palestinian side of
the border, according to Guy Inbar, a Defense Ministry
spokesman.  “Islamic Jihad wants to be able to claim an achievement in
hurting Israel, but we’ve managed to limit the damage and hurt
them more,” said Ephraim Kam, deputy director of  Tel Aviv 
University’s Institute for National Security Studies. “They
aren’t big enough to sustain a long campaign by themselves.”  Netanyahu pledged to boost civilian defense with more Iron
Dome anti-missile systems, which have shot down at least 44
rockets in the current round of violence, the army said.  Meanwhile,  Egypt ’s parliament yesterday demanded that the
government expel Israel’s ambassador and recall Egypt’s envoy
from Tel Aviv to protest against the attacks on Gaza, MENA
reported. The assembly also called for an immediate end to
natural gas exports to Israel, the Cairo-based news agency said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saud Abu Ramadan in Jerusalem at 
 sramadan@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  