-- New York City Tops Global Competitiveness, Economist Report Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-03-12T16:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/new-york-city-tops-global-competitiveness-london-is-no-2-economist-says.html
New York City ranks first among 120
cities across the globe in attracting capital, businesses and
tourists, according to an Economist Intelligence Unit report
commissioned by  Citigroup Inc. (C)   London  was the second most-competitive city, followed by
Singapore, with Paris and Hong Kong tied for fourth place,
according to the  report , which was released today. Among U.S.
cities,  Washington ,  Chicago  and Boston made the top 10.  The report cited New York’s diverse economy, driven by
media, arts, fashion, technology and finance. In 2010, New York
was second only to California’s Silicon Valley as a source of
venture capital in the U.S., according to the report.  The study also highlighted the joint venture between
Cornell University and Technion-Israel Institute of Technology
to build an applied-science and engineering campus on Roosevelt
Island in the East River. The project, championed by New York
Mayor Michael Bloomberg, is expected to generate $6 billion in
economic activity, according to the report.  “ New York City ’s position at the very top of this list is
no accident,” Bloomberg said in a statement. “It’s due to the
investments our administration has made and the world-famous
ingenuity and creativity of New Yorkers.”  New York attracted a record 50.5 million tourists last
year, according to NYC & Co., the city’s marketing and tourism
office.  China’s Clout  The 120 global cities surveyed have a total population of
about 750 million, account for 29 percent of the world economy
and had a combined gross domestic product of $20.2 trillion in
2011. In terms of “economic strength,” the most highly
weighted category, Asian cities accounted for 15 of the top 20
locations, including 12 Chinese cities.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, has been based in
 New York  since the company was founded 200 years ago, said Chief
Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit .  “Our commitment to this city, and its continued
competitiveness, are as strong as ever,” Pandit said in a
statement. “As cities vie for investment, talent and business,
we recognize that competitiveness is about more than growth.”  New York’s mayor is the founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  