-- Nordgold to Invest $800 Million to Boost Output, Double Reserves
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-03-12T03:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/nordgold-to-invest-800-million-to-boost-output-reserves-in-four-years.html
Nordgold NV (NORD) , the Russian gold
mining company spun off from  OAO Severstal (CHMF)  this year, plans to
double reserves in the next four years and is looking for
emerging-market acquisitions as it raises output worldwide.  The gold producer, listed in  London , will invest $800
million through 2015 to increase reserves from 8.2 million
ounces now and boost output almost 60 percent to about 1.2
million ounces, Chief Executive Officer Nikolai Zelenski said.  “We don’t have an immediate goal to become a top-10
company, but we don’t rule out any large merger in the future,”
Zelenski, 38, said in an interview in Moscow. While existing
reserves are sufficient to ensure future output, organic growth
is “only the base case,” he said.  Severstal, the steelmaker controlled by billionaire Alexey
Mordashov, created Nordgold from scratch, buying gold assets in
 Russia , Kazakhstan and  Africa . The Gross deposit in Russia’s
Yakutia region and Bissa in  Burkina Faso  in West Africa are set
to start producing next year.  About $470 million of the investments are planned for this
year, mostly on construction at new mines and geological
studies. Output is forecast to climb 13 percent to 850,000
ounces this year from 754,000 ounces last year.  Nordgold will spend its own funds on  capital expenditures 
during the next four years and doesn’t plan to raise debt beyond
the $400 million debt it owes Severstal, Zelenski said.  “We’re in talks with Russian and international banks on
refinancing this debt as soon as possible and we think we will
be able to get a lower rate than the 7 percent we are now paying
to Severstal,” Zelenski said.  Emerging-Market Acquisitions  Nordgold will consider acquisitions from “early
greenfields” to producing assets, Zelenski said. “We are
mostly interested in high quality deposits in  emerging markets 
such as Russia, Africa,  Latin America  and South-east Asia,”
Zelenski said. It is hard to find good assets in the U.S.,
 Canada  and  South Africa  at attractive prices, he said.  More that 63 percent of Nordgold’s output may come from
outside Russia in 2013, compared with about 57 percent last
year, according to Nordgold  estimates . “We are absolutely
confident in all our overseas investments and we have good
working relations with all of the governments,” Zelenski said.  Higher Value  In  Guinea , where Nordgold has its largest mine, the
government proposed a rule last year that would allow it to gain
as much as 35 percent of any mining company. “The code hasn’t
come into effect, and we haven’t held any discussions with the
government recently on selling” a stake in Crew Gold, the unit
that operates the LEFA mine, Zelenski said.  The miner is looking at ways to boost its the number of
shares trading and its share price, Zelenski said. The
possibilities include swapping stock with minority shareholders
in its Toronto-listed subsidiary  High River Gold Mines Ltd. (HRG) ;
acquiring a London- or Toronto-listed “small player with
interesting assets” or a share sale, he said.  In April Nordgold is having its reserves re-assessed, which
will be needed to value its shares if a swap is offered to High
River shareholders, Zelenski said. A swap may boost Nordgold’s
free float to about 20 percent, he said. The company has a free
float of about 10 percent, compared with a targeted 17 percent
when Severstal announced the spinoff.  Moving to London  Nordgold trades at a discount of as much as 54 percent to
peers in the former Soviet Union and Africa, even while
generating “solid” output growth and one of the highest
margins on earnings before interest, taxes depreciation and
amortization, said Dmitriy Kolomytsyn, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley in Moscow. The Ebitda margin was about 50 percent for
2011.  Nordgold may also consider redomiciling for a primary
listing in London and inclusion in the FTSE-100 index, Zelenski
said, following last year’s move by  Polymetal International Plc (POLY) ,
a silver and gold miner, and  Evraz Plc (EVR) , a steelmaker. The
company has yet to study the tax or financial outcome of such a
move, which “isn’t a priority for 2012,” he said.  The mining company’s shares have fallen to $6.75, a decline
of about 13 percent since Jan. 19, the first day of trading in
London, cutting its market value to $2.4 billion.  Randgold
Resources Ltd. (RRS) , which produced 696,023 ounces of gold in 2011,
has a market value of 6.6 billion pounds ($10 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  