-- Carolina Tar Heels Football Banned From 2012 Postseason for Academic Fraud
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-03-13T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/north-carolina-gets-2012-postseason-football-suspension-for-agents-scandal.html
The  University of North Carolina 
will be banned from the 2012 college football postseason and
lose 15 scholarships over a three-year period for committing
rules violations including academic fraud, the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association   announced .  The nation’s college sports governing body, which said
former assistant coach John Blake was compensated by a former
sports agent for access to athletes, also reported yesterday
that  North Carolina  had impermissible contact with a sports
agent and failed to monitor its football program.  The academic-fraud claim stems from a former tutor writing
significant parts of class assignments for three football
players, the NCAA said. The tutor also provided more than $4,000
in impermissible benefits, including airfare and paying for
parking fines for 11 football players after she graduated and
was no longer a university employee.  “This case should serve as a cautionary tale to all
institutions to vigilantly monitor the activities of those
student-athletes who possess the potential to be top
professional prospects,” the NCAA Division I Committee on
Infractions said in its report. “It should also serve to warn
student-athletes that if they choose to accept benefits from
agents or their associates, they risk losing their eligibility
for collegiate competition.”  During three seasons, six football players competed while
ineligible as a result of the violations and multiple athletes
received impermissible benefits totaling more than $31,000, the
NCAA said.  The  investigation  showed seven football players accepted
more than $27,500 in benefits from various people, some of them
agents, including cash, flights, meals, jewelry and lodging. One
athlete received more than $13,500 in cash and gifts.  Two Seasons Vacated  The  Chapel Hill , North Carolina-based university also
agreed to vacate its records for the 2008 and 2009 seasons, and
will be placed on probation through March 11, 2015. The school
paid a $50,000 fine and Blake, who resigned, is restricted from
recruiting for any school during the next three years.  “This case is serious,” Britton Banowsky, commissioner of
Conference USA and chairman of the infractions committee, said
in a conference call. “It includes efforts by agents and
runners to enter the lives of athletes for their own gain.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Curtis Eichelberger in
Wilmington at   ceichelberge@Bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  