-- Norwegian Krone Gains on Central Bank’s Interest Rate Outlook: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-03-12T10:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/norway-krone-gains-on-central-bank-rate-outlook-oslo-mover.html
Norway ’s krone strengthened on
speculation the central bank will signal this week that  interest
rates  will be kept unchanged for the remainder of the year.  The krone gained to 7.4793 per euro from 7.4805 on March 9,
as of 11:50 a.m. in Oslo, after paring an earlier loss. It was
little changed at 5.7021 per dollar.  “A decision to keep rates on hold should support
investors’ appetite for the krone,” Bjoern-Roger Wilhelmsen,
chief currency strategist at Swedbank First Securities, said in
a note to clients.  The krone touched a nine-year high against the euro this
month, prompting verbal interventions from the central bank and
the government. In part to relieve pressure on the central bank,
 government spending  this year and next will be “significantly”
below the limit of 4 percent of Norway’s $600 billion sovereign-
wealth fund, Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said yesterday
after presenting the budget framework for next year.  The central bank will announce its next rate decision on
March 14, after cutting rates by half a percentage point to 1.75
percent in December. It will lower its predicted rate path by as
much as 0.8 percentage point, according to First Securities. In
the central bank’s last forecast from October it predicted a
rate of almost 2.5 percent by year end.  While Norway’s oil wealth has protected it from  Europe ’s
debt crisis, the riches risk harming competitiveness. The
central bank has supported demand as it seeks to track rates in
Europe to stem excessive krone gains. Johnsen said yesterday
that fiscal policy will also address the  exchange rate .  The krone’s strength “is an important concern when we set
the overall framework for 2013,” Johnsen said. “It’s important
we hold back with oil money spending, because there’s also an
outlook for continued good growth in the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  