-- Oaktree Capital Said to Seek Control of Klockner With Blackstone
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-03-12T18:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/oaktree-group-is-said-to-seek-majority-stake-in-klockner-with-blackstone.html
Oaktree Capital Management LP is
leading senior lenders seeking to take over plastic films
producer Klockner Pentaplast Group in a restructuring that will
leave it and owner  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  with a majority stake in
the company, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter.  Oaktree, along with the Bank of Ireland and the lending arm
of General Electric Co, have proposed to take over the plastic
films producer a deal that will reduce the company’s borrowings
to less than 500 million euros ($656 million) from about 1.2
billion euros, said the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. The transaction will wipe out the
claims of all junior creditors owed about 350 million euros, the
people said.  Los Angeles-based Oaktree has agreed to sell a portion of
its equity stake to Blackstone once the proposal succeeds, which
will leave both firms as controlling shareholders, said the
people.  Klockner Pentaplast will need to put itself up for sale if
an agreement can’t be reached by March 21, the people said.
Lazard & Co. will serve as adviser on the sale of the company
bought by New York-based Blackstone in 2007, said the people.
Richard Creswell, a spokesman for Lazard, declined to comment.  Klockner Pentaplast,  founded in 1965 in Montabaur,  Germany ,
breached debt terms at the end of last year, the people said.
Lenders agreed to a waiver on Klockner Pentaplast’s debt
covenant until the end of June, the people said.  Helen Winning, a spokeswoman for Blackstone in  London ,
declined to comment. Oaktree didn’t reply to an e-mail seeking
comment. Anne Mathews, a spokeswoman for Bank of Ireland, and
Michael Goodbody, a GE spokesman in London, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  