-- Obama’s Stimulus Helped Grow Debt, Not Economy: Ramesh Ponnuru
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-03-12T23:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/obama-s-stimulus-helped-grow-debt-not-economy-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Last week’s release of the February
employment report set off the predictable partisan squabbling,
with Democrats emphasizing the positive (227,000 new jobs) and
Republicans the negative (the still-shrunken  labor force  and
still-high  unemployment rate ).  Democrats say the economic recovery shows that the stimulus
bill that President  Barack Obama  signed in 2009 worked.
Republicans deny it. Although we can’t know how the economy
would be faring if Congress hadn’t passed a stimulus, we have
good reason to doubt that it did much good.  Media fact-check organizations have no such doubts.
Factcheck.org says it’s “ just false ” to deny that the stimulus
has created jobs. It cites the  Congressional Budget Office ’s
estimate that the stimulus had saved or created millions of
jobs. But the CBO, as its director  has explained , hasn’t really
checked the effect of the stimulus. It has merely reported what
the results of additional federal spending and tax credits would
be if you assume that spending and tax credits are stimulative.  In other words: If you assume that stimulus works, it must
have worked. This circularity doesn’t bother PolitiFact, a group
that seeks to elevate the tone of our political debates but
 usually lowers it . Relying on the CBO and other groups that use
similar methods, it says people who deny the effectiveness of
the stimulus have their “ pants on fire .”  The Research  Last summer, Dylan Matthews reviewed the research on the
stimulus for the Washington Post and dug up  six studies  that
found a positive effect. Three of them were based on models that
assume the stimulus worked. Three of them were supposedly
empirical confirmations of this effect. These three all found
that states (or counties) that got more stimulus money had
stronger economic performances than places that received less.  But nobody denies that the federal government can shift the
distribution of economic activity. If Congress were to give me
$50 billion, I am sure car dealerships and liquor stores in my
area would see an uptick in sales. That doesn’t mean the nation
as a whole would come out ahead. (I am willing to go along with
the experiment if Congress doubts this.)  Other research on the stimulus, meanwhile, has uncovered
reasons for skepticism about its effect. John F. Cogan of the
Hoover Institution and  John B. Taylor  of  Stanford University 
 have found  that the federal aid to states that was in the
stimulus reduced states’ borrowing. The transfer may have helped
state balance sheets, but shifting debt from states to the
federal government cannot have been stimulative. The stimulus
didn’t increase federal purchases significantly, they said.  Valerie Ramey of the University of  California ,  San Diego ,
 has found  that the stimulus didn’t increase economic output or
private-sector employment, although it boosted public-sector
employment. (Maybe PolitiFact will give these economists a
pants-on-fire citation, too.)  In a recent debate about the stimulus with Taylor, former
Obama adviser  Lawrence Summers   made the point  -- a dubious one,
as we’ve seen -- that states with more stimulus funding have
done better. He also urged the audience to “use your common
sense.” That’s probably the best argument for the stimulus:
Keynesian theorists can tell a plausible story about why one
would expect additional federal borrowing to help a depressed
economy.  But what’s often left out of that story is the role of the
 Federal Reserve . Take account of how fiscal policy is likely to
affect monetary policy, and it becomes a lot harder to see how
stimulus can do much to help the economy.  Fed’s Effect  Assume, for example, that the central bank has a strict 2
percent target for inflation and is perfectly effective in
hitting it. In that case, any stimulus that Congress provides is
and must be canceled out by a tighter monetary policy. Or assume
that the central bank always achieves a target of 4.5 percent
growth in nominal income. Again, any added stimulus just causes
the Fed to run a more contractionary (or less expansionary)
monetary policy, and we end up with roughly the same level of
output and employment.  The Fed in these situations may want Congress to provide
stimulus, as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has repeatedly urged,
because the central bank would prefer to be able to run a
tighter policy itself. But listening to him would merely change
the mix of fiscal and monetary policy that reached the same
result.  That doesn’t mean Keynesian stimulus can never work. As
Scott Sumner of Bentley University  points out , it can work under
certain monetary regimes. But we seem to have a central bank
that wants to keep inflation in a narrow band, and this
disposition limits the potential effect of any fiscal policy on
the performance of the economy.  Some proponents of stimulus make the counterargument that
the crisis of 2008-2009 created an unusual “liquidity trap” in
which the Fed, because of low  interest rates , couldn’t run a
sufficiently expansionary policy. But our government was
perfectly capable of pursuing a highly expansionary one in 1933,
when  interest rates  were low, and the Fed has been able to
pursue unconventional policies in this crisis, too.  In retrospect, Obama would have been better off pushing for
more Fed action in 2009 -- for instance, the Fed could have
stopped paying banks interest on reserves, announced a goal of
restoring nominal income to trend, or both -- and skipping the
unpopular stimulus. The economy would probably be in the same
shape, and we would certainly have less federal debt.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 