-- Obama Hits Factories as He Paints Romney as Wall Street
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-03-12T04:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/obama-factory-stops-tailored-to-contrast-with-romney-wall-street-pedigree.html
President  Barack Obama  wants voters
to know that not all chief executive officers are created equal.
Some excel at manufacturing jobs, while others succeed in making
money.  In the battle to be the nation’s CEO-in-chief, Obama is
building the argument that the  U.S. economy  would suffer with
the latter, someone from the private equity world where  Mitt Romney , his chief potential challenger and Bain Capital LLC co-
founder, hails.  “We can’t go back to an economy that was weakened by
outsourcing and bad debts and phony financial profits,” Obama
said March 9 at Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc’s Crosspointe advanced
manufacturing facility in Prince George, Virginia. “We’ve got
to have an economy that’s built to last, and that begins with
manufacturing.”  Obama has recently appeared alongside some of the nation’s
most prominent business leaders, including Rolls-Royce North
America CEO James Guyette and  Boeing Co. (BA)  CEO  James McNerney ,
shaking hands on factory floors and inspecting industrial
equipment. He’s promoting policy initiatives focused on boosting
the American worker with  manufacturing  incentives, skills
training and community college partnerships.  Business Model Preference  In doing so, the president is aligning himself with a
certain kind of business model, while undercutting the private-
sector experience of Romney, who stakes his economic bona fides
on his financial management background.  “America sells itself based on industry, that’s what made
people profitable, that’s what got people into the middle
class,” said Shari Anne Brill, a media strategist who owns her
own consulting firm. “That’s the type of story that appeals to
people versus the people who are in the business of wheeling-
and-dealing and increasing wealth.”  Andrea Saul, Romney’s campaign spokeswoman, said the
president’s message is evidence that he’s “scared at the
prospect” of facing Romney in the general election.  “The last thing President Obama wants to do is run against
a conservative businessman who has worked in the real economy
and have to explain why his policies have been unable to get
millions of Americans back to work,” she said.  Obama hasn’t drawn the contrast in such direct terms and
Romney has yet to secure the  Republican Party ’s nomination. And
the effort to distinguish between the two types of business
models may also be borne from Obama’s lack of management
experience and tense relationship with the business community.  Wall Street Distrust  Still, the president’s aides see the former Massachusetts
governor as the likely nominee and are tapping into the public’s
distaste for  Wall Street . A December Pew Research Center  poll 
found that 51 percent of respondents said Wall Street hurts the
U.S. economy more than it helps. Sixty-one percent of those
polled said the economic system “unfairly favors the wealthy.”  In a Jan. 13 memo,  Stephanie Cutter , Obama’s deputy
campaign director, highlighted comments by a former managing
partner at Bain, Mark Walpow, who said: “The primary goal of
private equity is to create wealth for your investors.”  “Voters need to understand the kind of economy Mitt
Romney’s experience entails - and it doesn’t sound like the kind
of economy that’s built to last,” Cutter wrote.  Obama’s “America Built to Last” slogan tries to channel
the business model of a CEO at a company like Boeing,  Ford Motor
Co. (F) , or  General Electric Co. (GE)  that exports goods and services
around the world and needs to make sure it’s equipped for the
future with a long-term growth strategy.  Obama’s Credibility Gap  Whether voters will hold Romney accountable to the negative
aspects of private equity is yet to be determined. And Obama has
a credibility gap to overcome, not just with business, but with
the broader public, said Steven Reinemund, dean of Wake Forest
University’s Schools of Business.  “So much criticism has been laid at the feet of business
that it’s hard at this point for the president to delineate
between these two models that he’s trying to create,” said
Reinemund, a former PepsiCo CEO.  As Romney touts his own business experience, the
president’s campaign will point out the distinction between
Obama’s emphasis on investing in America’s workers with examples
of workers being fired during Romney’s time at Bain.  While Romney tells campaign audiences he helped create a
net of 100,000 jobs during his years at Bain, a Bloomberg News
review of several Bain transactions during Romney’s tenure found
deals that resulted in hundreds of job cuts along with companies
filing for bankruptcy or facing lawsuits from shareholders who
said they were misled by management.  Romney Record  Romney touts his record of creating retail jobs at
companies including  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  and The Sports Authority Inc.,
yet retail sales positions are among the fastest-growing and
lowest-paid jobs in the U.S., according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics.  The average compensation, including benefits,
across all retail jobs, from chief executive officer to clerk,
is $17.15 an hour, the bureau says, compared with $32.95 an hour
for manufacturing.  “I want us to make stuff. I want us to sell stuff,” Obama
said last month at Boeing’s Everett, Washington jet factory
after he toured the 787 Dreamliner assembly floor with McNerney.  Obama has taken his message to a  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) 
facility in  Las Vegas  with the company’s CEO Scott Davis in
January, a stop at a Master Lock Co. factory in  Milwaukee  last
month and last week in a visit to a Daimler Trucks North America
Plant in Mount Holly,  North Carolina .  ‘Suits and Ties’  “You want to communicate that ‘Hey, I’m standing with the
people in America who are working, who by the dint of their
labors, the sweat of their brow built this country and are
building our future,” said  John Engler , president of the
 Business Roundtable  and a former Republican governor of
 Michigan . “You don’t want to be with people in suits and
ties.”  A challenge for Obama will be streamlining the mixed
messages he’s sent about business.  “This is after two years of making all CEOs pariahs and
spurning them -- It’s not so easy,” said Bill George, a
professor of management practices at  Harvard Business School  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “This is not about leadership, this
is about politics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  