-- Obama Monitors for Gasoline, Diesel Fraud in 360 U.S. Cities
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-03-12T17:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/obama-monitors-for-gasoline-diesel-fraud-in-360-u-s-cities.html
The Obama administration is
monitoring gasoline and diesel fuel prices in 360 U.S. cities to
guard against fraud or price manipulation, according to a White
House report released today.  The report, which also says the administration has made
progress weaning the U.S. from foreign oil  imports , outlined the
extent of price monitoring that President  Barack Obama 
previously announced. At a March 6 news conference Obama said he
asked Attorney General Eric Holder to reconstitute a special
 task force  to ensure the government is watching for “potential
speculation in the oil markets.”  “Today’s high gas prices are a painful reminder that
there’s much more work to do free ourselves from our dependence
on foreign oil and take control of our energy future,” Obama
said in a statement released with the report.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which regulates
 futures markets , has also cracked down on financial trades that
evaded scrutiny in unregulated or overseas markets.  Rising gasoline prices have become a campaign issue as
higher energy costs have overshadowed positive economic news
indicating the recovery is gaining traction. Republican
presidential candidates criticized Obama yesterday for
environmental and permitting decisions affecting oil drilling
that they say have exacerbated the spike in oil prices, and they
vowed to reverse those decisions if elected.  Republican Critics  “We’re already looking at $4 a gallon of gasoline in a lot
of places and that has an impact in this economy,”  Rick Santorum , who is trailing  Mitt Romney  in the Republican primary
election campaign, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  A Washington Post-ABC News poll published today showed 65
percent of Americans surveyed disapprove of the way Obama is
handling the situation on  gasoline prices , with 26 percent
expressing support.  On a broader question, his negative ratings on the economy
are increasing, with 59 percent of Americans disapproving his
handling of the economy, up six percentage points from the last
poll, Feb. 4. Thirty-eight percent said they approve of the way
he’s handling the economy.  The poll of 1,003 adults taken March 7-10 has an error
margin of plus or minus four percentage points.  Pump Prices  Regular gasoline at the pump averages $3.80 nationwide, up
about 3 cents from a week ago, according to  AAA data  released
today. Prices are up about 15 percent this year, generating
angst among consumers in an election year and fueling the
rhetoric of Obama’s campaign critics.  “This is pure politics,” Santorum said. “All of this is
the president’s fault. It lays clearly on his table.”  Interior Secretary Ken Salazar today repeated the
administration’s position that there is little the president or
Congress can do to lower crude  oil prices  on the global market.  He said “all options are on the table” when asked at a
briefing whether the Strategic Petroleum Reserve might be tapped
to increase oil supplies. Salazar declined to say whether the
threat of higher gasoline prices affecting the economy would
justify releasing some of the reserve oil.  White House press secretary  Jay Carney , at the same
briefing, said “we’re not going to talk about the SPR with any
specificity.”  In the one-year progress report released today, called
“The Blueprint for a Secure Energy Future,” six federal
agencies conclude that the U.S. is on track to achieve an Obama
goal of reducing oil imports by a third in a little over a
decade.  This is due partly to increased U.S. oil and gas
production, more efficient cars and trucks, and efficient
refining operations. The U.S. imported 45 percent of its oil
needs last year, down from 57 percent in 2008, according to the
report.  Obama plans to speak about the report in interviews at the
White House today with television stations from  Los Angeles ,
Denver, Austin,  Des Moines ,  Orlando , Cincinnati,  Las Vegas  and
Pittsburgh, according to a White House schedule.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net  