-- Oil Prices ‘High’ Because of Political Tensions, Producers Say
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-03-12T17:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/oil-prices-high-because-of-political-tensions-producers-say.html
Oil-producing nations in the  Middle
East  and  Africa  said current crude prices at $125 a barrel are
“high” as a result of international political tensions.  Crude prices are “on the high side,” Mohamed Al-Hamli,
oil minister in the United Arab Emirates, said today in Kuwait
at a meeting of the International Energy Forum. International
politics are pushing up  oil prices , Angolan Oil Minister Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos said. His country would prefer to
see Brent oil at $110 to $115 a barrel, he told reporters as he
arrived in Kuwait.  Brent crude  has gained 17 percent this year in  London  to
more than $125 a barrel, mainly on concern that a conflict
involving  Iran  may choke off exports from the Persian Gulf and
limit market supplies. Oil surged last year after a revolution
in Libya stopped exports from the North African country.  The IEF is a gathering that takes place every two years
where government and company officials from producing and
consuming nations meet to discuss issues that will determine
future supply and demand in the global market. Oil-consuming
nations are trying to sustain growth in the face of rising crude
price, while producers seek to supply at a price that will
balance their national budgets without hurting demand.  Strait of Hormuz  Iran is seeking outlets for its oil after U.S. and European
sanctions cut off transactions with the country’s banking system
to pressure the Islamic republic into reining in its nuclear
program. The country has threatened to shut the Strait of
Hormuz, a transit point for a fifth of oil traded worldwide, if
sanctions are imposed on its crude exports.  State-run  Kuwait  Petroleum Corp. has a contingency plan if
the strait is closed, Chief Executive Officer Farouk Al-Zanki
said today in Kuwait, without providing details. Demand for the
company’s crude oil “still looks good,” he said.  Prices are “a bit high” and should be at $100 a barrel,
Mohammed Al-Rumhy, Oman’s oil minister, said in an interview at
the IEF. The sultanate will produce an average 900,000 barrels a
day of crude and condensate this year, little changed from the
end of last year, he said.  Kuwait pumped about 3 million barrels of oil and
condensates a day last month, Al-Zinki said. The U.A.E. produced
2.6 million barrels of oil a day in February, Al-Hamli told
reporters. Angola is currently producing 1.7 million barrels of
oil a day, according to Botelho de Vasconcelos.  Members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries boosted supplies last year during the Libyan conflict
to meet demand. The 12 members of OPEC, which pumps 40 percent
of the world’s oil, are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq,
Kuwait,  Libya , Nigeria, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Kuwait at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in Kuwait at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  