-- Oil Declines on Signs Chinese Economic Growth Will Slow, Cutting Demand
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-03-12T20:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/oil-declines-on-signs-chinese-economic-growth-will-slow-cutting-demand.html
Oil fell for the first time in four
days after Chinese economic data signaled slower growth by the
world’s second-largest user of crude.  Futures dropped from a one-week high after  China  said on
March 10 that the country’s trade deficit in February was the
largest in at least 22 years. Government data also showed that
China, the biggest consumer of crude after the U.S., had the
weakest January-February factory-production gain since 2009 and
retail sales below expectations.  “The market is taking a hard look at what the situation is
on the ground in China,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
“Their economic activity is very much in question.”  Crude for April delivery declined $1.06, or 1 percent, to
settle at $106.34 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.
Oil ended at $107.40 a barrel on March 9, the highest settlement
since March 1. Prices are up 7.6 percent in 2012.  Brent oil for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange slid 64 cents, or 0.5 percent, to
$125.34. Brent’s premium to WTI rose 42 cents to $19, the widest
gap in five weeks.  “The China economic numbers are making people concerned
that the non-OECD economy is not going to perform so well,”
said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic
Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts , referring to countries
outside the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  Trade Shortfall  The February trade shortfall of $31.5 billion reported by
the  customs bureau  in Beijing was the first in a year and four
times the size of the previous largest deficit.  Exports (CNFREXPY)  rose
18.4 percent from a year earlier as imports gained 39.6 percent.  Industrial  production  gained 11 percent in January and
February, less than forecast, the  National Bureau of Statistics 
reported on March 9. Retail sales rose 15 percent in the first
two months from a year earlier, below the median economist
estimate of 18 percent, data from the bureau showed.  “It’s all worries that China won’t be importing as much
stuff, at least in the near term,” said Bill O’Grady, chief
market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St.
Louis . “The trade deficit also raised concern about their
growth rate.”  China used 9.06 million barrels a day of oil in 2010,
according to the BP Statistical Review of World Energy. The U.S.
used 19.1 million barrels.  ‘Well-Supplied’  Oil also declined after the International Energy Forum’s
secretary-general said discoveries are sufficient to replace
depleting fields.  “Even now the market is well-supplied,” Aldo Flores- Quiroga said in an interview in Kuwait today. “New fields are
being discovered. There are new areas where sources are being
developed.”  The IEF, whose member nations account for more than 90
percent of global oil and gas supply and demand, will discuss
oil-price volatility, renewable sources, and energy poverty in a
two-day meeting in  Kuwait  that starts tomorrow.  Citigroup Inc. raised its Brent crude forecasts for the
rest of this year amid a drop in exports of Iranian oil after
European Union sanctions. Brent is expected to average $125 a
barrel during the second quarter, $130 a barrel in the third and
$125 in the fourth, Seth Kleinman, a London-based analyst at the
bank, said in an e-mailed report.  Iran Exports  Iran’s exports may drop further because the EU sanctions
are causing international ship owners to avoid the country.
Iran, the second-biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , pumped  3.45
million barrels  a day in February, the lowest level since
September 2002, according to Bloomberg News estimates.  Large speculators including  hedge funds  cut wagers on
rising oil prices as concern eased that tension in  Iran  would
cause a supply disruption. Net-long positions in futures and
options combined fell by 7.3 percent in the week ended March 6,
the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission said in its
Commitments of Traders report March 9.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 463,532
contracts as of 3:31 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 679,455
contracts on March 9, 8.4 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.59 million, the highest level in almost nine
months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  