-- Oil Advances From One-Week Low on U.S. Economy
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-03-13T08:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/oil-trades-near-lowest-in-a-week-on-u-s-stockpile-forecast-price-concern.html
Oil rebounded from the lowest price
in almost a week as investors bet that fuel demand may increase
amid signs the U.S. and Chinese economies are strengthening.  Futures gained as much as 0.7 percent in  New York  after
losing 1 percent yesterday. U.S. retail sales rose in February
by the most in five months, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before today’s Commerce Department report. China’s industrial
output growth will pick up in March and April, a former industry
minister said. Oil has climbed this year on concern tension with
 Iran  may lead to military conflict in the  Middle East , where
more than half the world’s oil reserves are located.  “The market will be comforted by an ongoing story of
reasonable growth in the U.S.,” said Ric Spooner, a chief
market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The retail sales
figures will be keenly watched. The geopolitical risk is
certainly a major factor that is clearly preventing prices from
falling too far at this stage.”  Oil for April delivery rose as much as 79 cents to $107.13
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $107.05 at 3:47 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday fell $1.06 to $106.34, the lowest settlement
since March 7. Prices are 8.3 percent higher this year.  Brent crude  for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was up 68 cents, or 0.5 percent, at
$126.02. The European benchmark contract was at a  premium  of
$18.97 to New York crude. The spread was $19 yesterday, the
widest closing price since Feb. 6.  U.S., China Economy  U.S. retail sales probably advanced 1.1 percent in February
after a 0.4 percent gain in January, according to the  median
estimate  of 81 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  China ’s
slowdown in industrial production in the first two months of the
year was due to seasonality and government controls,  Li Yizhong 
said while attending legislative meetings in Beijing.  The U.S. and China are the world’s biggest oil consumers,
accounting for about 32 percent of global demand in 2010,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  U.S. gasoline inventories probably fell  1 million barrels 
last week, according to the median estimate of seven analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News before an Energy Department report
tomorrow. Distillate supplies, including diesel and heating oil,
probably dropped 1.4 million barrels and crude stockpiles rose
1.9 million, the survey showed.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
release its own stockpile data in  Washington  today.  ‘High Side’  Crude prices are “on the high side,” Mohamed Al-Hamli,
the United Arab Emirates’ energy minister, said in Kuwait
yesterday at the International Energy Forum. The IEF is a
gathering of energy officials and companies from producing and
consuming countries that takes place every two years.  Prices are “a bit high” and should be at $100 a barrel,
Oman’s Oil Minister Mohammed Al-Rumhy said yesterday in an
interview in Kuwait. Angolan Oil Minister Jose Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos told reporters that international politics are
pushing up the price of oil, and that the African nation would
prefer to see Brent at $110 to $115 a barrel.  U.S. exports of gasoline, diesel and other fuels will more
than double in the next three years as refiners take advantage
of a growing supply of domestic crudes and ship more fuel to
 emerging markets , according to research firm Wood Mackenzie Ltd.  Exports will rise by 450,000 barrels a day by 2015 as
domestic demand shrinks and more products are sent to  Latin
America ,  Africa  and other regions where fuel use is increasing,
Alan Gelder, head of downstream consulting at Edinburgh-based
Wood Mackenzie, said during a presentation at an American Fuel
and Petrochemical Manufacturers conference in San Diego.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Anderson at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  