-- Oil Drops From One-Week High on Economic Growth Concern
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   J a c o b   A d e l m a n
-- 2012-03-12T12:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/oil-drops-from-highest-price-in-a-week-as-china-s-exports-miss-forecasts.html
Oil fell from the highest price in
more than a week after exports grew more slowly than forecast in
 China , the world’s second-largest crude consumer, signaling an
economic slowdown.  Futures in New York slid as much as 1.2 percent, erasing
last week’s gain. China had its biggest trade deficit last month
in at least 22 years as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis damped
exports, a March 10 report by the customs bureau showed.
Overseas shipments increased 18 percent, less than a median
estimate of 31 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  Hedge funds 
reduced bullish bets on oil for the first time in five weeks,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “It’s a risk-off day,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst
at Commerzbank Bank AG in  Frankfurt  who forecasts prices will
decline further. “People have focused on the Chinese export
numbers today, though given last month’s imports were super-
strong we’re still expecting continued strong economic activity
in China.”  Crude for April delivery fell as much as $1.34 to $106.06 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. It was at $106.08 at
12:31 p.m. London time. The contract rose 82 cents to $107.40 a
barrel on March 9, the highest settlement since March 1. Prices
are up 7.3 percent in 2012.  Brent oil for April settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange lost as much as $1.43, or 1.1 percent,
to $124.55 a barrel. The European benchmark contract was at a
premium of $18.47 to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate
grade, compared with a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Fibonacci Support  Oil in New York has technical support at $103.39 a barrel,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. On the weekly chart,
that is the 61.8 percent Fibonacci retracement of the drop to
$32.40 in December 2008 from a record high of $147.27 in July
that year. Buy orders tend to be clustered near support levels.  Reports last week showed the weakest January-to-February
gain in Chinese factory production since 2009 and retail sales
falling below estimates. China accounted for about 11 percent of
global oil demand in 2010, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s annual
Statistical Review of World Energy. The U.S. consumed 21
percent.  “The data from China is a downside pressure on the oil
market,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity-derivative sales
manager at Newedge Group in Tokyo who predicts oil will trade in
a range from $105 to $110 a barrel this week in New York. “The
trade deficit is much bigger than expected.”  Hedge-Fund Positions  Large speculators including hedge funds cut wagers on
rising oil prices as concern eased about risks tied to  Iran .
Net-long positions on New York crude, in futures and options,
combined fell by 7.3 percent in the week ended March 6, the CFTC
said in its Commitments of Traders report March 9.  Money managers raised bullish bets on  Brent crude  by 5,568
contracts in the week ended March 6, data from ICE Futures
 Europe  showed. Speculative bets that prices will rise, in
futures and options combined, outnumbered short positions by
132,370 lots, the London-based exchange said today in its weekly
Commitment of Traders report.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  said March 6 that there is a
“window of opportunity” for diplomacy and sanctions to compel
Iran to give up any effort to develop nuclear weapons.  Catherine Ashton , the European Union’s foreign policy chief, said world
powers are ready to resume talks with the Persian Gulf nation.  Iran will never bow to international military threats,
state television reported President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as
saying yesterday. The country is the second-largest producer
after  Saudi Arabia  in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, which pumps about a third of the world’s crude.  IEF Holds Meeting  The global oil market is well-supplied and new discoveries
are sufficient to replace depleting fields, the International
Energy Forum’s secretary-general said. The worldwide oil
industry needs annual investment of as much as $700 billion,
Aldo Flores-Quiroga said in an interview in  Kuwait  today.  The International Energy Forum, consisting of a group of
nations that account for more than 90 percent of global oil and
gas supply and demand, will discuss oil-price volatility,
renewable sources of energy and energy poverty in a two-day
meeting in Kuwait that starts tomorrow. The IEF was founded in
1991 as a forum to discuss international energy security.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Jacob Adelman in  Tokyo  at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  