-- Honda Supplier’s Tears Herald Rebirth for Japan Quake-Hit Zone
-- B y   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a ,   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-03-12T23:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/honda-supplier-s-tears-herald-rebirth-for-japan-quake-hit-zone.html
As the surge of water smashed
through the factory wall in northeast  Japan  a year ago, Takumi
Tanaka held on to an air hose to stop being swept away. Four
days later, he was back at the shattered auto-parts plant,
groping through meter-thick mud studded with uprooted trees.  Tanaka, a 61-year-old manager at Uchida Co., and other
employees were searching for molds used to make parts. After
finding the dies, they handed them over to another supplier of
its biggest customer,  Honda Motor Co. (7267)   “Without them, Honda’s production lines would have ground
to a halt,” Tanaka said. “Our engineers were in tears.”  Uchida’s sacrifice illustrates how Japan’s auto industry
helped the nation’s worst-hit region recover from the March 11
earthquake and tsunami that swept away villages, killing at
least 15,800 people. Today,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  --  Asia ’s biggest
carmaker -- is expanding production in the Tohoku area,
industrial output is nearing pre-quake levels and Uchida is
churning out more parts than ever after getting its molds back.  “The recovery was quick, when you see the scale of damage
done to suppliers,” said Masatoshi Nishimoto, a senior manager
at research firm IHS Automotive in Tokyo. “There’s nothing
anywhere that even compares. This was the biggest disaster
worldwide for the auto industry.”  The disaster also underscored for Japanese manufacturers
how the loss of even a thumbnail-sized part, such as those
produced by Uchida, can halt output at factories hundreds or
even thousands of miles away. While Uchida had to give up
intellectual property for Tokyo-based Honda, within days Japan’s
No.3 automaker shipped boots, raingear, supplies and an army of
200 people needed to get its supplier back up and running.  Supplier Confusion  “When we heard the names of some small suppliers that were
in trouble, we didn’t even know what kind of parts they
produced,” Honda Chief Financial Officer Fumihiko Ike said in
an interview in February. “When we tried to paint a car with a
certain color, we didn’t realize it was produced only at one
company in the Fukushima area.”  It was a similar story at Toyota. The maker of the Camry
sedan took four months to restore production to pre-quake
levels, partly because it couldn’t track down which of the
estimated 1,500 factories that make up its entire supply chain
needed to be replaced or helped. Toyota estimates the delay cost
the Toyota City-based company about 160 billion yen.  Toyota plans to make its first-tier suppliers that won’t
reveal their own suppliers carry more inventory, Executive Vice
President Shinichi Sasaki said in an interview. Upon completion
of the project this year, Toyota will be able to recover from a
major disaster within two weeks, he said.  Thailand Too  Honda was undertaking a similar review of its parts-
procurement when it was hit by flooding in  Thailand  last year,
which reinforced the vulnerability of Japan’s manufacturers.
With the floods receded, the company is now revisiting the
project.  Meantime, the maker of Civic and Accord saloons is
strengthening quake-proofing measures at all domestic plants
over the next two to three years, Ike said Feb. 8.  When planning to build a new factory in Tohoku, Toyota
began by breaking down an engine into hundreds of separate
parts. It then gathered suppliers in the region, comprising the
six northern prefectures of Japan’s main Honshu Island.  Now Toyota is investing an initial 2 billion yen in the
factory in  Miyagi prefecture , which is due to open in May. The
company also plans to increase production of its new Prius 
compact hybrid vehicle, known in Japan as the Aqua, in the
region and plans to increase its procurement from Tohoku.  Knock-on Impact  “The  auto industry  has a very broad industrial
footprint,” Miyagi Governor Yoshihiro Murai said. “Their
growth touches a lot of sub-industries.”  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723) , the world’s biggest maker of
microcontroller chips for cars, brought production back to pre-
quake levels in September after restarting output in June, said
Ryuji Omura, a general manager. The Kawasaki-based chipmaker has
begun disclosing inventory information to customers, added quake
reinforcements at its factories and has spread out manufacturing
to cut risks, according to the company.  Automotive companies aren’t the only ones making changes.
 Toshiba Corp. (6502) , Japan’s biggest maker of flash memory chips, is
spreading out production in Japan to help reduce the time it
would take to recover from another earthquake.  Sony Corp. (6758) ,
Japan’s largest exporter of consumer electronics, has kept most
employees at its Tagajo plant in Miyagi at pre-temblor levels
by shifting output to facilities unaffected by the disaster,
said  Mami Imada , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman.  Jobs Lost  Of the 110,000 people who lost their jobs after the quake
in Miyagi alone, 60,000 have gone back to work, Governor Murai
said. “But 50,000 are still unemployed. That’s why we’re
pushing so hard for the promotion of the economic zones.”  Tohoku  industrial production  rose 45 percent in January
from last March, and is 6 percent shy of its level before the
earthquake, according to the Tohoku Bureau of Economy. By
comparison, nationwide production has climbed 15 percent during
that period.  “After a tsunami, what’s important is to draw a line under
the episode and start over,” Tanaka said. “We can at least be
thankful we didn’t lose even a single employee.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuki Hagiwara in  Tokyo  at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  