-- Hong Kong Election Unlikely to Produce Clear Winner, Tien Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-03-12T03:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/hong-kong-election-unlikely-to-produce-clear-winner-tien-says.html
Neither of the top two candidates
running for Hong Kong chief executive may garner  enough support 
to win the March 25 election outright, necessitating a fresh
ballot, honorary Liberal Party chairman  James Tien  said.  The Liberal Party will probably cast blank votes because
 Henry Tang , the candidate it once backed, has become too
unpopular after a series of scandals, Tien said in an interview
today. A second vote would be necessary if neither Tang nor his
main rival, Leung Chun-ying, gets an absolute majority in Hong
Kong’s 1,200-member election committee.  “The contest between them is pretty much like a choice
between two rotten apples,” Tien said. “The chances of an
abortive election is getting more likely.”  Tang, who is Hong Kong’s former chief secretary and has the
backing of some of the city’s richest men, has rejected calls to
withdraw from the race amid controversy over illegal
construction work at a family home and reports he fathered a
child out of wedlock. He trails Leung by more than 33 percentage
points in opinion polls.  The  Liberal Party  originally pledged its 60 votes to Tang.
Now that his popularity has plunged, it will need to reconsider,
Tien said.  “Our original choice was Henry because he used to be one
of us and we feel that he’s knowledgeable about the commercial
community but his popularity has dropped so much over the last
couple months,” Tien said. “This is not universal suffrage but
we still have to respect public opinion.”  Speaking to Bloomberg Television last week, Tang said his
mistakes had all been personal, while Leung’s are public, and
his rival is a “risky” choice because he lacks sufficient
experience.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  