-- Monster’s Drinks Seen Fueling Highest Valuation: Real M&A
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2012-03-12T20:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/monster-s-energy-drinks-seen-fueling-highest-takeover-valuation-real-m-a.html
Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST) ’s escalating
profit from energy drinks pumped full of caffeine and nitrous
oxide may tempt acquirers to chase what would be the most
expensive takeover in the industry’s history.  After the stock more than  doubled  in the last year, Monster
Beverage was valued last week at  20 times  earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, the priciest of
any North American soft-drink maker greater than $500 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg that includes net debt.
The $10.4 billion company, which got its start selling juices in
the 1930s, has the highest  operating margins  in the industry and
is projected to boost earnings 70 percent in the next three
years, analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  may be among interested buyers, said Credit
Agricole Securities USA Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., to
capture a bigger chunk of U.S. alternative beverage sales
estimated to have reached almost $32 billion last year,
according to the Beverage Marketing Corp. The Corona,
California-based company could be worth $74 a share in a
takeover, said Gabelli & Co., 24 percent more than last week’s
close. Even without a premium, it would already be the highest
Ebitda multiple on record for a takeover of a non-alcoholic
beverages company greater than $1 billion, the data show.  “What Monster’s so successfully done in the last few years
is proven that demand for energy drinks is fairly universal
among young people,” Caroline Levy, a beverage and household
products analyst for Credit Agricole in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “This business is now too big to ignore.
If you’re a player in soft drinks, I think it’s very hard not to
be in the highest-margin, highest-growth category out there.”  Java Monster  Judy Lin Sfetcu, a spokeswoman for Monster Beverage,
declined to comment on whether the company has been approached
about a sale.  “Were we to receive an acquisition proposal, our board of
directors would carefully consider whether any such proposal is
in the best interests of our stockholders and act
appropriately,” she said in an e-mailed statement.  Kent Landers , a spokesman for Coca-Cola, said the company
doesn’t comment “on market rumors or speculation as it relates
to M&A.”  Monster Beverage, formerly known as  Hansen Natural Corp. ,
sold juices and sodas under the Hansen name before introducing
the first Monster Energy products in 2002 to capture growing
demand for drinks made with added caffeine or supplements to
deliver an energy boost. Monster brands, ranging from coffee-
based Java Monster to its Nitrous drink injected with nitrous
oxide, now account for about 91 percent of sales, according to
the company’s most recent  annual statement .  ‘Gangbusters’ in Growth  Monster Beverage’s revenue climbed an average of 24 percent
in each of the past five years, compared with average annual
sales growth of 15 percent for Coca-Cola and 14 percent for
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  in the same period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Monster’s  operating margin  of 27 percent in 2011 was
the highest among publicly traded North American soft-drink
companies with a market value greater than $500 million, the
data show.  “They are going gangbusters in the growth sector,” Thomas Mullarkey, a Chicago-based analyst at Morningstar Inc., said in
a phone interview.  As Monster Beverage’s sales and  profits  climbed, its stock
more than tripled in the past five years to $59.57 on March 9.
The 111 percent gain in the last year through last week was the
second-highest in the  Standard & Poor’s Midcap 400 Index. (MID)  The
shares were little changed at $59.59 today in New York.  ‘Justifies the Valuation’  Monster Beverage’s equity and  net cash  was valued last week
at  20 times  Ebitda of $474 million last year, compared with
Coca-Cola at 14 times and Purchase, New York-based  PepsiCo (PEP)  at
9.9 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show. North American soft-
drink makers with market capitalizations greater than $500
million were valued at a median of 8.7 times. Monster Beverage
is also more expensive relative to sales and book value than any
other company in the industry, the data show.  “They’re showing very strong sales growth and very strong
earnings growth,”  Judy Hong , an analyst at Goldman Sachs in  New
York , said in a phone interview. “The growth itself, in part,
justifies the valuation.”  With analysts estimating that pretax earnings will climb  70
percent (MNST)  in the next three years to $803 million, the company was
only valued at 12 times estimated 2014 Ebitda, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Energy Drink Sales  Energy drinks -- designed to deliver a mental or physical
boost with ingredients such as caffeine, sugar and supplements -
- have gained in popularity in recent years along with other
alternatives to traditional soft drinks. The segment was the
fastest-growing category of the U.S. liquid refreshment beverage
market in the five years ended in 2011 with a compound annual
growth rate of 11.9 percent, according to data and estimates
from Beverage Digest and Goldman Sachs.  On a wholesale basis, energy drink sales climbed 45 percent
to $4.37 billion from 2006 to 2010, the latest year for which
finalized data is available, according to Gary Hemphill, senior
vice president of the Beverage Marketing Corp., a New York
consulting firm. Monster and its main competitor  Red Bull  GmbH
each account for about 30 percent of the U.S. market, he said.  Domestic U.S. wholesale sales for the so-called
“alternative” beverage category -- ranging from energy drinks
to juices, coffees and flavored water -- were about $31.9
billion last year, Monster Beverage said in a Feb. 29  regulatory
filing , citing estimates from the Beverage Marketing Corp.  ‘Coke Understands’  “The energy category continues to show remarkable
strength,” Tom Pirko, founder of Bevmark LLC in Buellton,
 California , an adviser to the food and beverage industries, said
in a phone interview. “It continues to grow and grow and the
international prospects for a brand like Monster to compete
against Red Bull are very good. There is tremendous upscale
possibility here and I think Coke understands that.”  Coca-Cola, the world’s largest soft-drink maker, may be
lured by the prospect of using its distribution networks abroad
to bolster Monster Beverage’s international profit, according to
 Credit Agricole ’s Levy and Hong of Goldman Sachs.  Coca-Cola, which has a market value of $157 billion,
already distributes about half of Monster Beverage’s  energy
drinks  such as Assault, Khaos and Rehab in the U.S. Acquiring
the company would allow Atlanta-based Coca-Cola to tap earnings
that Levy estimates will increase 20 percent annually over the
next three years.  ‘The Irony’  “We have written in the past that we think it’d be a
really accretive acquisition for Coke, but that was about $3
billion of market cap ago,” said Levy of Credit Agricole. “The
irony is it probably still would be very accretive to Coke.
Certainly where the big upside would be is that Coke can put
energy drinks into its distribution system globally.”  Even without a premium, acquiring Monster Beverage at last
week’s enterprise value of $9.6 billion would equate to the
richest Ebitda multiple ever for a takeover of a non-alcoholic
beverage company greater than $1 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. At that price it would also be Coca-Cola’s
second-biggest deal after its $12.2 billion acquisition of the
North American operations of bottler Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.
in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This would not be a takeover that was done on a numbers
basis,” Liam Dalton, who oversees about $1.8 billion as chief
executive officer of Axiom Capital Management Inc. in New York,
said in a phone interview. “What they would basically be doing
is trying to capture a brand, and when you’re trying to capture
a brand it’s a different animal. It’d have to be viewed more as
a strategic acquisition, not a financial acquisition.”  Red Bull  Monster Beverage may not be a willing target, said Mark Astrachan, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York.  “I don’t believe management is out there actively trying
to sell the business,” Astrachan said in a phone interview. “I
don’t think that’s really a motivating factor. They’ve been
incredibly successful in running the business.”  Still,  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest brewer,
may be another logical bidder because it also distributes
Monster Beverage’s products, Hong said. Louis Navellier, who
oversees more than $3 billion at Navellier & Associates Inc. and
 owns shares  of Monster Beverage, said closely-held Red Bull
could pursue the company to increase market share in the U.S.  “If Red Bull’s serious about capturing market share in
 North America , they might want to just buy Monster,” Navellier,
based in Reno,  Nevada , said in a phone interview. “You do pay a
premium for Monster, but hey, at least they’ve got growth.”  Strategic Acquisition  Patrice Radden, a spokeswoman for Fuschl am See, Austria-
based Red Bull, said the company wasn’t considering buying
Monster Beverage. Marianne Amssoms of Leuven, Belgium-based AB
InBev, declined to comment on whether the company was weighing a
bid for Monster Beverage.  Monster Beverage may be worth $74 a share in a takeover,
said Gabelli’s Damian Witkowski, based on his estimate for $777
million in Ebitda next year. The company could probably get more
than $70 a share in a takeover, according to estimates from
Morningstar and Goldman Sachs.  “The industry’s growing quickly,” said Dalton of Axiom
Capital. “It’s not so much a valuation story. If you are a
strategic acquirer like a major beverage company and you’re
trying to leverage the brand through your own distribution
systems, then it could make sense.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 